As it is not my intention to write the political history of Michelangelo's period, I need not
digress here upon the invasion of Italy by Charles VIII., which caused the expulsion of the
Medici from Florence, and the establishment of a liberal government under the leadership of
Savonarola. Michelangelo appears to have anticipated the catastrophe which was about to overwhelm
his patron. He was by nature timid, suspicious, and apt to foresee disaster. Possibly he may
have judged that the haughty citizens of Florence would not long put up with Piero's aristocratical
insolence. But Condivi tells a story on the subject which is too curious to be omitted, and
which he probably set down from Michelangelo's own lips. "In the palace of Piero a man called
Cardiere was a frequent inmate. The Magnificent took much pleasure in his society, because
he improvised verses to the guitar with marvellous dexterity, and the Medici also practised
this art; so that nearly every evening after supper there was music. This Cardiere, being a
friend of Michelangelo, confided to him a vision which pursued him, to the following effect.
Lorenzo de' Medici appeared to him barely clad in one black tattered robe, and bade him relate
to his son Piero that he would soon be expelled and never more return to his home. Now Piero
was arrogant and overbearing to such an extent that neither the good-nature of the Cardinal
Giovanni, his brother, nor the courtesy and urbanity of Giuliano, was so strong to maintain
him in Florence as his own faults to cause his expulsion. Michelangelo encouraged the man to
obey Lorenzo and report the matter to his son; but Cardiere, fearing his new master's temper,
kept it to himself. On another morning, when Michelangelo was in the courtyard of the palace,
Cardiere came with terror and pain written on his countenance. Last night Lorenzo had again
appeared to him in the same garb of woe; and while he was awake and gazing with his eyes, the
spectre dealt him a blow on the cheek, to punish him for omitting to report his vision to Piero.
Michelangelo immediately gave him such a thorough scolding that Cardiere plucked up courage,
and set forth on foot for Careggi, a Medicean villa some three miles distant from the city.
He had traveled about halfway, when he met Piero, who was riding home; so he stopped the cavalcade,
and related all that he had seen and heard. Piero laughed him to scorn, and, beckoning the
running footmen, bade them mock the poor fellow. His Chancellor, who was afterwards the Cardinal
of Bibbiena, cried out: 'You are a madman! Which do you think Lorenzo loved best, his son or
you? If his son, would he not rather have appeared to him than to some one else?' Having thus
jeered him, they let him go; and he, when he returned home and complained to Michelangelo,
so convinced the latter of the truth of his vision that Michelangelo after two days left Florence
with a couple of comrades, dreading that if what Cardiere had predicted should come true, he
would no longer be safe in Florence."

This ghost-story bears a remarkable resemblance to what Clarendon relates concerning the apparition
of Sir George Villiers. Wishing to warn his son, the Duke of Buckingham, of his coming murder
at the hand of Lieutenant Felton, he did not appear to the Duke himself, but to an old man-servant
of the family; upon which behaviour of Sir George's ghost the same criticism has been passed
as on that of Lorenzo de' Medici.

Michelangelo and his two friends travelled across the Apennines to Bologna, and thence to Venice,
where they stopped a few days. Want of money, or perhaps of work there drove them back upon
the road to Florence. When they reached Bologna on the return journey, a curious accident happened
to the party. The master of the city, Giovanni Bentivoglio, had recently decreed that every
foreigner, on entering the gates, should be marked with a seal of red wax upon his thumb. The
three Florentines omitted to obey this regulation, and were taken to the office of the Customs,
where they were fined fifty Bolognese pounds. Michelangelo did not possess enough to pay this
fine; but it so happened that a Bolognese nobleman called Gianfrancesco Aldovrandi was there,
who, hearing that Buonarroti was a sculptor, caused the men to be released. Upon his urgent
invitation, Michelangelo went to this gentleman's house, after taking leave of his two friends
and giving them all the money in his pocket. With Messer Aldovrandi he remained more than a
year, much honoured by his new patron, who took great delight in his genius; "and every evening
he made Michelangelo read aloud to him out of Dante or Petrarch, and sometimes Boccaccio, until
he went to sleep." He also worked upon the tomb of San Domenico during this first residence
at Bologna. Originally designed and carried forward by Niccolò Pisano, this elaborate specimen
of mediaeval sculpture remained in some points imperfect. There was a San Petronio whose drapery,
begun by Niccolò da Bari, was unfinished. To this statue Michelangelo put the last touches;
and he also carved a kneeling angel with a candelabrum, the workmanship of which surpasses
in delicacy of execution all the other figures on the tomb.

III

Michelangelo left Bologna hastily. It is said that a sculptor who had expected to be employed
upon the arca of S. Domenic threatened to do him some mischief if he stayed and took the bread
out of the mouths of native craftsmen. He returned to Florence some time in 1495. The city
was now quiet again, under the rule of Savonarola. Its burghers, in obedience to the friar's
preaching, began to assume that air of pietistic sobriety which contrasted strangely with the
gay licentiousness encouraged by their former master. Though the reigning branch of the Medici
remained in exile, their distant cousins, who were descended from Lorenzo, the brother of Cosimo,
Pater Patriae, kept their place in the republic. They thought it prudent, however, at this
time, to exchange the hated name of de' Medici for Popolano. With a member of this section
of the Medicean family, Lorenzo di Pierfrancesco, Michelangelo soon found himself on terms
of intimacy. It was for him that he made a statue of the young S. John, which was perhaps rediscovered
at Pisa in 1874. For a long time this S. Giovannino was attributed to Donatello; and it certainly
bears decided marks of resemblance to that master's manner, in the choice of attitude, the
close adherence to the model, and the treatment of the hands and feet. Still it has notable
affinities to the style of Michelangelo, especially in the youthful beauty of the features,
the disposition of the hair, and the sinuous lines which govern the whole composition. It may
also be remarked that those peculiarities in the hands and feet which I have mentioned as reminding
us of Donatello--a remarkable length in both extremities, owing to the elongation of the metacarpal
and metatarsal bones and of the spaces dividing these from the forearm and tibia--are precisely
the points which Michelangelo retained through life from his early study of Donatello's work.
We notice them particularly in the Dying Slave of the Louvre, which is certainly one of his
most characteristic works. Good judges are therefore perhaps justified in identifying this
S. Giovannino, which is now in the Berlin Museum, with the statue made for Lorenzo di Pierfrancesco
de' Medici.

The next piece which occupied Michelangelo's chisel was a Sleeping Cupid. His patron thought
this so extremely beautiful that he remarked to the sculptor: "If you were to treat it artificially,
so as to make it look as though it had been dug up, I would send it to Rome; it would be accepted
as an antique, and you would be able to sell it at a far higher price." Michelangelo took the
hint. His Cupid went to Rome, and was sold for thirty ducats to a dealer called Messer Baldassare
del Milanese, who resold it to Raffaello Riario, the Cardinal di S. Giorgio, for the advanced
sum of 200 ducats. It appears from this transaction that Michelangelo did not attempt to impose
upon the first purchaser, but that this man passed it off upon the Cardinal as an antique.
When the Cardinal began to suspect that the Cupid was the work of a modern Florentine, he sent
one of his gentlemen to Florence to inquire into the circumstances. The rest of the story shall
be told in Condivi's words.

"This gentleman, pretending to be on the lookout for a sculptor capable of executing certain
works in Rome, after visiting several, was addressed to Michelangelo. When he saw the young
artist, he begged him to show some proof of his ability; whereupon Michelangelo took a pen
(for at that time the crayon [lapis] had not come into use), and drew a hand with such grace
that the gentleman was stupefied. Afterwards, he asked if he had ever worked in marble, and
when Michelangelo said yes, and mentioned among other things a Cupid of such height and in
such an attitude, the man knew that he had found the right person. So he related how the matter
had gone, and promised Michelangelo, if he would come with him to Rome, to get the difference
of price made up, and to introduce him to his patron, feeling sure that the latter would receive
him very kindly. Michelangelo, then, partly in anger at having been cheated, and partly moved
by the gentleman's account of Rome as the widest field for an artist to display his talents,
went with him, and lodged in his house, near the palace of the Cardinal." S. Giorgio compelled
Messer Baldassare to refund the 200 ducats, and to take the Cupid back. But Michelangelo got
nothing beyond his original price; and both Condivi and Vasari blame the Cardinal for having
been a dull and unsympathetic patron to the young artist of genius he had brought from Florence.
Still the whole transaction was of vast importance, because it launched him for the first time
upon Rome, where he was destined to spend the larger part of his long life, and to serve a
succession of Pontiffs in their most ambitious undertakings.

Before passing to the events of his sojourn at Rome, I will wind up the story of the Cupid.
It passed first into the hands of Cesare Borgia, who presented it to Guidobaldo di Montefeltro,
Duke of Urbino. On the 30th of June 1502, the Marchioness of Mantua wrote a letter to the Cardinal
of Este, saying that she should very much like to place this piece, together with an antique
statuette of Venus, both of which had belonged to her brother-in-law, the Duke of Urbino, in
her own collection. Apparently they had just become the property of Cesare Borgia, when he
took and sacked the town of Urbino upon the 20th of June in that year. Cesare Borgia seems
to have complied immediately with her wishes; for in a second letter, dated July 22, 1502,
she described the Cupid as "without a peer among the works of modern times."

IV

Michelangelo arrived in Rome at the end of June 1496. This we know from the first of his extant
letters, which is dated July 2, and addressed to Lorenzo di Pierfrancesco de' Medici. The superscription,
however, bears the name of Sandro Botticelli, showing that some caution had still to be observed
in corresponding with the Medici, even with those who latterly assumed the name of Popolani.
The young Buonarroti writes in excellent spirits: "I only write to inform you that last Saturday
we arrived safely, and went at once to visit the Cardinal di San Giorgio; and I presented your
letter to him. It appeared to me that he was pleased to see me, and he expressed a wish that
I should go immediately to inspect his collection of statues. I spent the whole day there,
and for that reason was unable to deliver all your letters. Afterwards, on Sunday, the Cardinal
came into the new house, and had me sent for. I went to him, and he asked what I thought about
the things which I had seen. I replied by stating my opinion, and certainly I can say with
sincerity that there are many fine things in the collection. Then he asked me whether I had
the courage to make some beautiful work of art. I answered that I should not be able to achieve
anything so great, but that he should see what I could do. We have bought a piece of marble
for a life-size statue, and on Monday I shall begin to work."

After describing his reception, Michelangelo proceeds to relate the efforts he was making to
regain his Sleeping Cupid from Messer Baldassare: "Afterwards, I gave your letter to Baldassare,
and asked him for the child, saying I was ready to refund his money. He answered very roughly,
swearing he would rather break it in a hundred pieces; he had bought the child, and it was
his property; he possessed writings which proved that he had satisfied the person who sent
it to him, and was under no apprehension that he should have to give it up. Then he complained
bitterly of you, saying that you had spoken ill of him. Certain of our Florentines sought to
accommodate matters, but failed in their attempt. Now I look to coming to terms through the
Cardinal; for this is the advice of Baldassare Balducci. What ensues I will report to you."
It is clear that Lorenzo di Pierfrancesco, being convinced of the broker's sharp practice,
was trying to recover the Sleeping Cupid (the child) at the price originally paid for it, either
for himself or for Buonarroti. The Cardinal is mentioned as being the most likely person to
secure the desired result.

Whether Condivi is right in saying that S. Giorgio neglected to employ Michelangelo may be
doubted. We have seen from this letter to Lorenzo that the Cardinal bought a piece of marble
and ordered a life-size statue. But nothing more is heard about the work. Professor Milanesi,
however, has pointed out that when the sculptor was thinking of leaving Rome in 1497 he wrote
to his father on the 1st of July as follows: "Most revered and beloved father, do not be surprised
that I am unable to return, for I have not yet settled my affairs with the Cardinal, and I
do not wish to leave until I am properly paid for my labour; and with these great patrons one
must go about quietly, since they cannot be compelled. I hope, however, at any rate during
the course of next week, to have completed the transaction."

Michelangelo remained at Rome for more than two years after the date of the letter just quoted.
We may conjecture, then, that he settled his accounts with the Cardinal, whatever these were,
and we know that he obtained other orders. In a second letter to his father, August 19, 1497,
he writes thus: "Piero de' Medici gave me a commission for a statue, and I bought the marble.
But I did not begin to work upon it, because he failed to perform what he promised. Wherefore
I am acting on my own account, and am making a statue for my own pleasure. I bought the marble
for five ducats, and it turned out bad. So I threw my money away. Now I have bought another
at the same price, and the work I am doing is for my amusement. You will therefore understand
that I too have large expenses and many troubles."

During the first year of his residence in Rome (between July 2, 1496, and August 19, 1497)
Michelangelo must have made some money, else he could not have bought marble and have worked
upon his own account. Vasari asserts that he remained nearly twelve months in the household
of the Cardinal, and that he only executed a drawing of S. Francis receiving the stigmata,
which was coloured by a barber in S. Giorgio's service, and placed in the Church of S. Pietro
a Montorio. Benedetto Varchi describes this picture as having been painted by Buonarroti's
own hand. We know nothing more for certain about it. How he earned his money is therefore,
unexplained, except upon the supposition that S. Giorgio, unintelligent as he may have been
in his patronage of art, paid him for work performed. I may here add that the Piero de' Medici
who gave the commission mentioned in the last quotation was the exiled head of the ruling family.
Nothing had to be expected from such a man. He came to Rome in order to be near the Cardinal
Giovanni, and to share this brother's better fortunes; but his days and nights were spent in
debauchery among the companions and accomplices of shameful riot.

Michelangelo, in short, like most young artists, was struggling into fame and recognition.
Both came to him by the help of a Roman gentleman and banker, Messer Jacopo Gallo. It so happened
that an intimate Florentine friend of Buonarroti, the Baldassare Balducci mentioned at the
end of his letter to Lorenzo di Pierfrancesco, was employed in Gallo's house of business. It
is probable, therefore, that this man formed the link of connection between the sculptor and
his new patron. At all events, Messer Gallo purchased a Bacchus, which now adorns the sculpture-gallery
of the Bargello, and a Cupid, which may possibly be the statue at South Kensington.

Condivi says that this gentleman, "a man of fine intelligence, employed him to execute in his
own house a marble Bacchus, ten palms in height, the form and aspect of which correspond in
all parts to the meaning of ancient authors. The face of the youth is jocund, the eyes wandering
and wanton, as is the wont with those who are too much addicted to a taste for wine. In his
right hand he holds a cup, lifting it to drink, and gazing at it like one who takes delight
in that liquor, of which he was the first discoverer. For this reason, too, the sculptor has
wreathed his head with vine-tendrils. On his left arm hangs a tiger-skin, the beast dedicated
to Bacchus, as being very partial to the grape. Here the artist chose rather to introduce the
skin than the animal itself, in order to hint that sensual indulgence in the pleasure of the
grape-juice leads at last to loss of life. With the hand of this arm he holds a bunch of grapes,
which a little satyr, crouched below him, is eating on the sly with glad and eager gestures.
The child may seem to be seven years, the Bacchus eighteen of age." This description is comparatively
correct, except that Condivi is obviously mistaken when he supposes that Michelangelo's young
Bacchus faithfully embodies the Greek spirit. The Greeks never forgot, in all their representations
of Dionysos, that he was a mystic and enthusiastic deity. Joyous, voluptuous, androgynous,
he yet remains the god who brought strange gifts and orgiastic rites to men. His followers,
Silenus, Bacchantes, Fauns, exhibit, in their self-abandonment to sensual joy, the operation
of his genius. The deity descends to join their revels from his clear Olympian ether, but he
is not troubled by the fumes of intoxication. Michelangelo has altered this conception. Bacchus,
with him, is a terrestrial young man, upon the verge of toppling over into drunkenness. The
value of the work is its realism. The attitude could not be sustained in actual life for a
moment without either the goblet spilling its liquor or the body reeling side-ways. Not only
are the eyes wavering and wanton, but the muscles of the mouth have relaxed into a tipsy smile;
and, instead of the tiger-skin being suspended from the left arm, it has slipped down, and
is only kept from falling by the loose grasp of the trembling hand. Nothing, again, could be
less godlike than the face of Bacchus. It is the face of a not remarkably good-looking model,
and the head is too small both for the body and the heavy crown of leaves. As a study of incipient
intoxication, when the whole person is disturbed by drink, but human dignity has not yet yielded
to a bestial impulse, this statue proves the energy of Michelangelo's imagination. The physical
beauty of his adolescent model in the limbs and body redeems the grossness of the motive by
the inalienable charm of health and carnal comeliness. Finally, the technical merits of the
work cannot too strongly be insisted on. The modelling of the thorax, the exquisite roundness
and fleshiness of the thighs and arms and belly, the smooth skin-surface expressed throughout
in marble, will excite admiration in all who are capable of appreciating this aspect of the
statuary's art. Michelangelo produced nothing more finished in execution, if we except the
Pietà at S. Peter's. His Bacchus alone is sufficient to explode a theory favoured by some critics,
that, left to work unhindered, he would still have preferred a certain vagueness, a certain
want of polish in his marbles.

Nevertheless, the Bacchus leaves a disagreeable impression on the mind--as disagreeable in
its own way as that produced by the Christ of the Minerva. That must be because it is wrong
in spiritual conception--brutally materialistic, where it ought to have been noble or graceful.
In my opinion, the frank, joyous naturalism of Sansovino's Bacchus (also in the Bargello) possesses
more of true Greek inspiration than Michelangelo's. If Michelangelo meant to carve a Bacchus,
he failed; if he meant to imitate a physically desirable young man in a state of drunkenness,
he succeeded.

What Shelley wrote upon this statue may here be introduced, since it combines both points of
view in a criticism of much spontaneous vigour.

"The countenance of this figure is the most revolting mistake of the spirit and meaning of
Bacchus. It looks drunken, brutal, and narrow-minded, and has an expression of dissoluteness
the most revolting. The lower part of the figure is stiff, and the manner in which the shoulders
are united to the breast, and the neck to the head, abundantly inharmonious. It is altogether
without unity, as was the idea of the deity of Bacchus in the conception of a Catholic. On
the other hand, considered merely as a piece of workmanship, it has great merits. The arms
are executed in the most perfect and manly beauty; the body is conceived with great energy,
and the lines which describe the sides and thighs, and the manner in which they mingle into
one another, are of the highest order of boldness and beauty. It wants, as a work of art, unity
and simplicity; as a representation of the Greek deity of Bacchus, it wants everything."

Jacopo Gallo is said to have also purchased a Cupid from Michelangelo. It has been suggested,
with great plausibility, that this Cupid was the piece which Michelangelo began when Piero
de' Medici's commission fell through, and that it therefore preceded the Bacchus in date of
execution. It has also been suggested that the so-called Cupid at South Kensington is the work
in question. We have no authentic information to guide us in the matter. But the South Kensington
Cupid is certainly a production of the master's early manhood. It was discovered some forty
years ago, hidden away in the cellars of the Gualfonda (Rucellai) Gardens at Florence, by Professor
Miliarini and the famous Florentine sculptor Santarelli. On a cursory inspection they both
declared it to be a genuine Michelangelo. The left arm was broken, the right hand damaged,
and the hair had never received the sculptor's final touches. Santarelli restored the arm,
and the Cupid passed by purchase into the possession of the English nation. This fine piece
of sculpture is executed in Michelangelo's proudest, most dramatic manner. The muscular young
man of eighteen, a model of superb adolescence, kneels upon his right knee, while the right
hand is lowered to lift an arrow from the ground. The left hand is raised above the head, and
holds the bow, while the left leg is so placed, with the foot firmly pressed upon the ground,
as to indicate that in a moment the youth will rise, fit the shaft to the string, and send
it whistling at his adversary. This choice of a momentary attitude is eminently characteristic
of Michelangelo's style; and, if we are really to believe that he intended to portray the god
of love, it offers another instance of his independence of classical tradition. No Greek would
have thus represented Eros. The lyric poets, indeed, Ibycus and Anacreon, imaged him as a fierce
invasive deity, descending like the whirlwind on an oak, or striking at his victim with an
axe. But these romantic ideas did not find expression, so far as I am aware, in antique plastic
art. Michelangelo's Cupid is therefore as original as his Bacchus. Much as critics have written,
and with justice, upon the classical tendencies of the Italian Renaissance, they have failed
to point out that the Paganism of the Cinque Cento rarely involved a servile imitation of the
antique or a sympathetic intelligence of its spirit. Least of all do we find either of these
qualities in Michelangelo. He drew inspiration from his own soul, and he went straight to Nature
for the means of expressing the conception he had formed. Unlike the Greeks, he invariably
preferred the particular to the universal, the critical moment of an action to suggestions
of the possibilities of action. He carved an individual being, not an abstraction or a generalisation
of personality. The Cupid supplies us with a splendid illustration of this criticism. Being
a product of his early energy, before he had formed a certain manneristic way of seeing Nature
and of reproducing what he saw, it not only casts light upon the spontaneous working of his
genius, but it also shows how the young artist had already come to regard the inmost passion
of the soul. When quite an old man, rhyming those rough platonic sonnets, he always spoke of
love as masterful and awful. For his austere and melancholy nature, Eros was no tender or light-winged
youngling, but a masculine tyrant, the tamer of male spirits. Therefore this Cupid, adorable
in the power and beauty of his vigorous manhood, may well remain for us the myth or symbol
of love as Michelangelo imagined that emotion. In composition, the figure is from all points
of view admirable, presenting a series of nobly varied line-harmonies. All we have to regret
is that time, exposure to weather, and vulgar outrage should have spoiled the surface of the
marble.

VI

It is natural to turn from the Cupid to another work belonging to the English nation, which
has recently been ascribed to Michelangelo. I mean the Madonna, with Christ, S. John, and four
attendant male figures, once in the possession of Mr. H. Labouchere, and now in the National
Gallery. We have no authentic tradition regarding this tempera painting, which in my judgment
is the most beautiful of the easel pictures attributed to Michelangelo. Internal evidence from
style renders its genuineness in the highest degree probable. No one else upon the close of
the fifteenth century was capable of producing a composition at once so complicated, so harmonious,
and so clear as the group formed by Madonna, Christ leaning on her knee to point a finger at
the book she holds, and the young S. John turned round to combine these figures with the exquisitely
blended youths behind him. Unfortunately the two angels or genii upon the left hand are unfinished;
but had the picture been completed, we should probably have been able to point out another
magnificent episode in the composition, determined by the transverse line carried from the
hand upon the last youth's shoulder, through the open book and the upraised arm of Christ,
down to the feet of S. John and the last genius on the right side. Florentine painters had
been wont to place attendant angels at both sides of their enthroned Madonnas. Fine examples
might be chosen from the work of Filippino Lippi and Botticelli. But their angels were winged
and clothed like acolytes; the Madonna was seated on a rich throne or under a canopy, with
altar-candles, wreaths of roses, flowering lilies. It is characteristic of Michelangelo to
adopt a conventional motive, and to treat it with brusque originality. In this picture there
are no accessories to the figures, and the attendant angels are Tuscan lads half draped in
succinct tunics. The style is rather that of a flat relief in stone than of a painting; and
though we may feel something of Ghirlandajo's influence, the spirit of Donatello and Luca della
Robbia are more apparent. That it was the work of an inexperienced painter is shown by the
failure to indicate pictorial planes. In spite of the marvellous and intricate beauty of the
line-composition, it lacks that effect of graduated distances which might perhaps have been
secured by execution in bronze or marble. The types have not been chosen with regard to ideal
loveliness or dignity, but accurately studied from living models. This is very obvious in the
heads of Christ and S. John. The two adolescent genii on the right hand possess a high degree
of natural grace. Yet even here what strikes one most is the charm of their attitude, the lovely
interlacing of their arms and breasts, the lithe alertness of the one lad contrasted with the
thoughtful leaning languor of his comrade. Only perhaps in some drawings of combined male figures
made by Ingres for his picture of the Golden Age have lines of equal dignity and simple beauty
been developed. I do not think that this Madonna, supposing it to be a genuine piece by Michelangelo,
belongs to the period of his first residence in Rome. In spite of its immense intellectual
power, it has an air of immaturity. Probably Heath Wilson was right in assigning it to the
time spent at Florence after Lorenzo de' Medici's death, when the artist was about twenty years
of age.

I may take this occasion for dealing summarily with the Entombment in the National Gallery.
The picture, which is half finished, has no pedigree. It was bought out of the collection of
Cardinal Fesch, and pronounced to be a Michelangelo by the Munich painter Cornelius. Good judges
have adopted this attribution, and to differ from them requires some hardihood. Still it is
painful to believe that at any period of his life Michelangelo could have produced a composition
so discordant, so unsatisfactory in some anatomical details, so feelingless and ugly. It bears
indubitable traces of his influence; that is apparent in the figure of the dead Christ. But
this colossal nude, with the massive chest and attenuated legs, reminds us of his manner in
old age; whereas the rest of the picture shows no trace of that manner. I am inclined to think
that the Entombment was the production of a second-rate craftsman, working upon some design
made by Michelangelo at the advanced period when the Passion of our Lord occupied his thoughts
in Rome. Even so, the spirit of the drawing must have been imperfectly assimilated; and, what
is more puzzling, the composition does not recall the style of Michelangelo's old age. The
colouring, so far as we can understand it, rather suggests Pontormo.

VII

Michelangelo's good friend, Jacopo Gallo, was again helpful to him in the last and greatest
work which he produced during this Roman residence. The Cardinal Jean de la Groslaye de Villiers
François, Abbot of S. Denys, and commonly called by Italians the Cardinal di San Dionigi, wished
to have a specimen of the young sculptor's handiwork. Accordingly articles were drawn up to
the following effect on August 26, 1498: "Let it be known and manifest to whoso shall read
the ensuing document, that the most Rev. Cardinal of S. Dionigi has thus agreed with the master
Michelangelo, sculptor of Florence, to wit, that the said master shall make a Pietà of marble
at his own cost; that is to say, a Virgin Mary clothed, with the dead Christ in her arms, of
the size of a proper man, for the price of 450 golden ducats of the Papal mint, within the
term of one year from the day of the commencement of the work." Next follow clauses regarding
the payment of the money, whereby the Cardinal agrees to disburse sums in advance. The contract
concludes with a guarantee and surety given by Jacopo Gallo. "And I, Jacopo Gallo, pledge my
word to his most Rev. Lordship that the said Michelangelo will finish the said work within
one year, and that it shall be the finest work in marble which Rome to-day can show, and that
no master of our days shall be able to produce a better. And, in like manner, on the other
side, I pledge my word to the said Michelangelo that the most Rev. Card. will disburse the
payments according to the articles above engrossed. To witness which, I, Jacopo Gallo, have
made this present writing with my own hand, according to the date of year, month, and day as
above."

The Pietà raised Michelangelo at once to the highest place among the artists of his time, and
it still remains unrivalled for the union of sublime aesthetic beauty with profound religious
feeling. The mother of the dead Christ is seated on a stone at the foot of the cross, supporting
the body of her son upon her knees, gazing sadly at his wounded side, and gently lifting her
left hand, as though to say, "Behold and see!" She has the small head and heroic torso used
by Michelangelo to suggest immense physical force. We feel that such a woman has no difficulty
in holding a man's corpse upon her ample lap and in her powerful arms. Her face, which differs
from the female type he afterwards preferred, resembles that of a young woman. For this he
was rebuked by critics who thought that her age should correspond more naturally to that of
her adult son. Condivi reports that Michelangelo explained his meaning in the following words:
"Do you not know that chaste women maintain their freshness far longer than the unchaste? How
much more would this be the case with a virgin, into whose breast there never crept the least
lascivious desire which could affect the body? Nay, I will go further, and hazard the belief
that this unsullied bloom of youth, besides being maintained in her by natural causes, may
have been miraculously wrought to convince the world of the virginity and perpetual purity
of the Mother. This was not necessary for the Son. On the contrary, in order to prove that
the Son of God took upon himself, as in very truth he did take, a human body, and became subject
to all that an ordinary man is subject to, with the exception of sin; the human nature of Christ,
instead of being superseded by the divine, was left to the operation of natural laws, so that
his person revealed the exact age to which he had attained. You need not, therefore, marvel
if, having regard to these considerations, I made the most Holy Virgin, Mother of God, much
younger relatively to her Son than women of her years usually appear, and left the Son such
as his time of life demanded." "This reasoning," adds Condivi, "was worthy of some learned
theologian, and would have been little short of marvellous in most men, but not in him, whom
God and Nature fashioned, not merely to be peerless in his handiwork, but also capable of the
divinest concepts, as innumerable discourses and writings which we have of his make clearly
manifest."

The Christ is also somewhat youthful, and modelled with the utmost delicacy; suggesting no
lack of strength, but subordinating the idea of physical power to that of a refined and spiritual
nature. Nothing can be more lovely than the hands, the feet, the arms, relaxed in slumber.
Death becomes immortally beautiful in that recumbent figure, from which the insults of the
scourge, the cross, the brutal lance have been erased. Michelangelo did not seek to excite
pity or to stir devotion by having recourse to those mediaeval ideas which were so passionately
expressed in S. Bernard's hymn to the Crucified. The aesthetic tone of his dead Christ is rather
that of some sweet solemn strain of cathedral music, some motive from a mass of Palestrina
or a Passion of Sebastian Bach. Almost involuntarily there rises to the memory that line composed
by Bion for the genius of earthly loveliness bewailed by everlasting beauty--

  E'en as a corpse he is fair, fair corpse as fallen aslumber.

It is said that certain Lombards passing by and admiring the Pietà ascribed it to Christoforo
Solari of Milan, surnamed Il Gobbo. Michelangelo, having happened to overhear them, shut himself
up in the chapel, and engraved the belt upon the Madonna's breast with his own name. This he
never did with any other of his works.

This masterpiece of highest art combined with pure religious feeling was placed in the old
Basilica of S. Peter's, in a chapel dedicated to Our Lady of the Fever, Madonna della Febbre.
Here, on the night of August 19, 1503, it witnessed one of those horrid spectacles which in
Italy at that period so often intervened to interrupt the rhythm of romance and beauty and
artistic melody. The dead body of Roderigo Borgia, Alexander VI., lay in state from noon onwards
in front of the high altar; but since "it was the most repulsive, monstrous, and deformed corpse
which had ever yet been seen, without any form or figure of humanity, shame compelled them
to partly cover it." "Late in the evening it was transferred to the chapel of Our Lady of the
Fever, and deposited in a corner by six hinds or porters and two carpenters, who had made the
coffin too narrow and too short. Joking and jeering, they stripped the tiara and the robes
of office from the body, wrapped it up in an old carpet, and then with force of fists and feet
rammed it down into the box, without torches, without a ministering priest, without a single
person to attend and bear a consecrated candle." Of such sort was the vigil kept by this solemn
statue, so dignified in grief and sweet in death, at the ignoble obsequies of him who, occupying
the loftiest throne of Christendom, incarnated the least erected spirit of his age. The ivory-smooth
white corpse of Christ in marble, set over against that festering corpse of his Vicar on earth,
"black as a piece of cloth or the blackest mulberry," what a hideous contrast!

VIII

It may not be inappropriate to discuss the question of the Bruges Madonna here. This is a marble
statue, well placed in a chapel of Notre Dame, relieved against a black marble niche, with
excellent illumination from the side. The style is undoubtedly Michelangelesque, the execution
careful, the surface-finish exquisite, and the type of the Madonna extremely similar to that
of the Pietà at S. Peter's. She is seated in an attitude of almost haughty dignity, with the
left foot raised upon a block of stone. The expression of her features is marked by something
of sternness, which seems inherent in the model. Between her knees stands, half reclining,
half as though wishing to step downwards from the throne, her infant Son. One arm rests upon
his mother's knee; the right hand is thrown round to clasp her left. This attitude gives grace
of rhythm to the lines of his nude body. True to the realism which controlled Michelangelo
at the commencement of his art career, the head of Christ, who is but a child, slightly overloads
his slender figure. Physically he resembles the Infant Christ of our National Gallery picture,
but has more of charm and sweetness. All these indications point to a genuine product of Michelangelo's
first Roman manner; and the position of the statue in a chapel ornamented by the Bruges family
of Mouscron renders the attribution almost certain. However, we have only two authentic records
of the work among the documents at our disposal. Condivi, describing the period of Michelangelo's
residence in Florence (1501-1504), says: "He also cast in bronze a Madonna with the Infant
Christ, which certain Flemish merchants of the house of Mouscron, a most noble family in their
own land, bought for two hundred ducats, and sent to Flanders." A letter addressed under date
August 4, 1506, by Giovanni Balducci in Rome to Michelangelo at Florence, proves that some
statue which was destined for Flanders remained among the sculptor's property at Florence.
Balducci uses the feminine gender in writing about this work, which justifies us in thinking
that it may have been a Madonna. He says that he has found a trustworthy agent to convey it
to Viareggio, and to ship it thence to Bruges, where it will be delivered into the hands of
the heir of John and Alexander Mouscron and Co., "as being their property." This statue, in
all probability, is the "Madonna in marble" about which Michelangelo wrote to his father from
Rome on the 31st of January 1507, and which he begged his father to keep hidden in their dwelling.
It is difficult to reconcile Condivi's statement with Balducci's letter. The former says that
the Madonna bought by the Mouscron family was cast in bronze at Florence. The Madonna in the
Mouscron Chapel at Notre Dame is a marble. I think we may assume that the Bruges Madonna is
the piece which Michelangelo executed for the Mouscron brothers, and that Condivi was wrong
in believing it to have been cast in bronze. That the statue was sent some time after the order
had been given, appears from the fact that Balducci consigned it to the heir of John and Alexander,
"as being their property;" but it cannot be certain at what exact date it was begun and finished.

IX

While Michelangelo was acquiring immediate celebrity and immortal fame by these three statues,
so different in kind and hitherto unrivalled in artistic excellence, his family lived somewhat
wretchedly at Florence. Lodovico had lost his small post at the Customs after the expulsion
of the Medici; and three sons, younger than the sculptor, were now growing up. Buonarroto,
born in 1477, had been put to the cloth-trade, and was serving under the Strozzi in their warehouse
at the Porta Rossa. Giovan-Simone, two years younger (he was born in 1479), after leading a
vagabond life for some while, joined Buonarroto in a cloth-business provided for them by Michelangelo.
He was a worthless fellow, and gave his eldest brother much trouble. Sigismondo, born in 1481,
took to soldiering; but at the age of forty he settled down upon the paternal farm at Settignano,
and annoyed his brother by sinking into the condition of a common peasant.

The constant affection felt for these not very worthy relatives by Michelangelo is one of the
finest traits in his character. They were continually writing begging letters, grumbling and
complaining. He supplied them with funds, stinting himself in order to maintain them decently
and to satisfy their wishes. But the more he gave, the more they demanded; and on one or two
occasions, as we shall see in the course of this biography, their rapacity and ingratitude
roused his bitterest indignation. Nevertheless, he did not swerve from the path of filial and
brotherly kindness which his generous nature and steady will had traced. He remained the guardian
of their interests, the custodian of their honour, and the builder of their fortunes to the
end of his long life. The correspondence with his father and these brothers and a nephew, Lionardo,
was published in full for the first time in 1875. It enables us to comprehend the true nature
of the man better than any biographical notice; and I mean to draw largely upon this source,
so as gradually, by successive stipplings, as it were, to present a miniature portrait of one
who was both admirable in private life and incomparable as an artist.

This correspondence opens in the year 1497. From a letter addressed to Lodovico under the date
August 19, we learn that Buonarroto had just arrived in Rome, and informed his brother of certain
pecuniary difficulties under which the family was labouring. Michelangelo gave advice, and
promised to send all the money he could bring together. "Although, as I have told you, I am
out of pocket myself, I will do my best to get money, in order that you may not have to borrow
from the Monte, as Buonarroto says is possible. Do not wonder if I have sometimes written irritable
letters; for I often suffer great distress of mind and temper, owing to matters which must
happen to one who is away from home.... In spite of all this, I will send you what you ask
for, even should I have to sell myself into slavery." Buonarroto must have paid a second visit
to Rome; for we possess a letter from Lodovico to Michelangelo, under date December 19, 1500,
which throws important light upon the latter's habits and designs. The old man begins by saying
how happy he is to observe the love which Michelangelo bears his brothers. Then he speaks about
the cloth-business which Michelangelo intends to purchase for them. Afterwards, he proceeds
as follows: "Buonarroto tells me that you live at Rome with great economy, or rather penuriousness.
Now economy is good, but penuriousness is evil, seeing that it is a vice displeasing to God
and men, and moreover injurious both to soul and body. So long as you are young, you will be
able for a time to endure these hardships; but when the vigour of youth fails, then diseases
and infirmities make their appearance; for these are caused by personal discomforts, mean living,
and penurious habits. As I said, economy is good; but, above all things, shun stinginess. Live
discreetly well, and see you have what is needful. Whatever happens, do not expose yourself
to physical hardships; for in your profession, if you were once to fall ill (which God forbid),
you would be a ruined man. Above all things, take care of your head, and keep it moderately
warm, and see that you never wash: have yourself rubbed down, but do not wash." This sordid
way of life became habitual with Michelangelo. When he was dwelling at Bologna in 1506, he
wrote home to his brother Buonarroto: "With regard to Giovan-Simone's proposed visit, I do
not advise him to come yet awhile, for I am lodged here in one wretched room, and have bought
a single bed, in which we all four of us (i.e., himself and his three workmen) sleep." And
again: "I am impatient to get away from this place, for my mode of life here is so wretched,
that if you only knew what it is, you would be miserable." The summer was intensely hot at
Bologna, and the plague broke out. In these circumstances it seems miraculous that the four
sculptors in one bed escaped contagion. Michelangelo's parsimonious habits were not occasioned
by poverty or avarice. He accumulated large sums of money by his labour, spent it freely on
his family, and exercised bountiful charity for the welfare of his soul. We ought rather to
ascribe them to some constitutional peculiarity, affecting his whole temperament, and tinging
his experience with despondency and gloom. An absolute insensibility to merely decorative details,
to the loveliness of jewels, stuffs, and natural objects, to flowers and trees and pleasant
landscapes, to everything, in short, which delighted the Italians of that period, is a main
characteristic of his art. This abstraction and aridity, this ascetic devotion of his genius
to pure ideal form, this almost mathematical conception of beauty, may be ascribed, I think,
to the same psychological qualities which determined the dreary conditions of his home-life.
He was no niggard either of money or of ideas; nay, even profligate of both. But melancholy
made him miserly in all that concerned personal enjoyment; and he ought to have been born under
that leaden planet Saturn rather than Mercury and Venus in the house of Jove. Condivi sums
up his daily habits thus: "He has always been extremely temperate in living, using food more
because it was necessary than for any pleasure he took in it; especially when he was engaged
upon some great work; for then he usually confined himself to a piece of bread, which he ate
in the middle of his labour. However, for some time past, he has been living with more regard
to health, his advanced age putting this constraint upon his natural inclination. Often have
I heard him say: 'Ascanio, rich as I may have been, I have always lived like a poor man.' And
this abstemiousness in food he has practised in sleep also; for sleep, according to his own
account, rarely suits his constitution, since he continually suffers from pains in the head
during slumber, and any excessive amount of sleep deranges his stomach. While he was in full
vigour, he generally went to bed with his clothes on, even to the tall boots, which he has
always worn, because of a chronic tendency to cramp, as well as for other reasons. At certain
seasons he has kept these boots on for such a length of time, that when he drew them off the
skin came away together with the leather, like that of a sloughing snake. He was never stingy
of cash, nor did he accumulate money, being content with just enough to keep him decently;
wherefore, though innumerable lords and rich folk have made him splendid offers for some specimen
of his craft, he rarely complied, and then, for the most part, more out of kindness and friendship
than with any expectation of gain." In spite of all this, or rather because of his temperance
in food and sleep and sexual pleasure, together with his manual industry, he preserved excellent
health into old age.

I have thought it worth while to introduce this general review of Michelangelo's habits, without
omitting some details which may seem repulsive to the modern reader, at an early period of
his biography, because we ought to carry with us through the vicissitudes of his long career
and many labours an accurate conception of our hero's personality. For this reason it may not
be unprofitable to repeat what Condivi says about his physical appearance in the last years
of his life. "Michelangelo is of a good complexion; more muscular and bony than fat or fleshy
in his person: healthy above all things, as well by reason of his natural constitution as of
the exercise he takes, and habitual continence in food and sexual indulgence. Nevertheless,
he was a weakly child, and has suffered two illnesses in manhood. His countenance always showed
a good and wholesome colour. Of stature he is as follows: height middling; broad in the shoulders;
the rest of the body somewhat slender in proportion. The shape of his face is oval, the space
above the ears being one sixth higher than a semicircle. Consequently the temples project beyond
the ears, and the ears beyond the cheeks, and these beyond the rest; so that the skull, in
relation to the whole head, must be called large. The forehead, seen in front, is square; the
nose, a little flattened--not by nature, but because, when he was a young boy, Torrigiano de'
Torrigiani, a brutal and insolent fellow, smashed in the cartilage with his fist. Michelangelo
was carried home half dead on this occasion; and Torrigiano, having been exiled from Florence
for his violence, came to a bad end. The nose, however, being what it is, bears a proper proportion
to the forehead and the rest of the face. The lips are thin, but the lower is slightly thicker
than the upper; so that, seen in profile, it projects a little. The chin is well in harmony
with the features I have described. The forehead, in a side-view, almost hangs over the nose;
and this looks hardly less than broken, were it not for a trifling proturberance in the middle.
The eyebrows are not thick with hair; the eyes may even be called small, of a colour like horn,
but speckled and stained with spots of bluish yellow. The ears in good proportion; hair of
the head black, as also the beard, except that both are now grizzled by old age; the beard
double-forked, about five inches long, and not very bushy, as may partly be observed in his
portrait."

We have no contemporary account of Michelangelo in early manhood; but the tenor of his life
was so even, and, unlike Cellini, he moved so constantly upon the same lines and within the
same sphere of patient self-reserve, that it is not difficult to reconstruct the young and
vigorous sculptor out of this detailed description by his loving friend and servant in old
age. Few men, notably few artists, have preserved that continuity of moral, intellectual, and
physical development in one unbroken course which is the specific characterisation of Michelangelo.
As years advanced, his pulses beat less quickly and his body shrank. But the man did not alter.
With the same lapse of years, his style grew drier and more abstract, but it did not alter
in quality or depart from its ideal. He seems to me in these respects to be like Milton: wholly
unlike the plastic and assimilative genius of a Raphael.

CHAPTER III

I

Michelangelo returned to Florence in the spring of 1501. Condivi says that domestic affairs
compelled him to leave Rome, and the correspondence with his father makes this not improbable.
He brought a heightened reputation back to his native city. The Bacchus and the Madonna della
Febbre had placed him in advance of any sculptor of his time. Indeed, in these first years
of the sixteenth century he may be said to have been the only Tuscan sculptor of commanding
eminence. Ghiberti, Della Quercia, Brunelleschi, Donatello, all had joined the majority before
his birth. The second group of distinguished craftsmen--Verocchio, Luca della Robbia, Rossellino,
Da Maiano, Civitali, Desiderio da Settignano--expired at the commencement of the century. It
seemed as though a gap in the ranks of plastic artists had purposely been made for the entrance
of a predominant and tyrannous personality. Jacopo Tatti, called Sansovino, was the only man
who might have disputed the place of preeminence with Michelangelo, and Sansovino chose Venice
for the theatre of his life-labours. In these circumstances, it is not singular that commissions
speedily began to overtax the busy sculptor's power of execution. I do not mean to assert that
the Italians, in the year 1501, were conscious of Michelangelo's unrivalled qualities, or sensitive
to the corresponding limitations which rendered these qualities eventually baneful to the evolution
of the arts; but they could not help feeling that in this young man of twenty-six they possessed
a first-rate craftsman, and one who had no peer among contemporaries.

The first order of this year came from the Cardinal Francesco Piccolomini, who was afterwards
elected Pope in 1503, and who died after reigning three weeks with the title of Pius III. He
wished to decorate the Piccolomini Chapel in the Duomo of Siena with fifteen statues of male
saints. A contract was signed on June 5, by which Michelangelo agreed to complete these figures
within the space of three years. One of them, a S. Francis, had been already begun by Piero
Torrigiano; and this, we have some reason to believe, was finished by the master's hand. Accounts
differ about his share in the remaining fourteen statues; but the matter is of no great moment,
seeing that the style of the work is conventional, and the scale of the figures disagreeably
squat and dumpy. It seems almost impossible that these ecclesiastical and tame pieces should
have been produced at the same time as the David by the same hand. Neither Vasari nor Condivi
speaks about them, although it is certain that Michelangelo was held bound to his contract
during several years. Upon the death of Pius III., he renewed it with the Pope's heirs, Jacopo
and Andrea Piccolomini, by a deed dated September 15, 1504; and in 1537 Anton Maria Piccolomini,
to whom the inheritance succeeded, considered himself Michelangelo's creditor for the sum of
a hundred crowns, which had been paid beforehand for work not finished by the sculptor.

A far more important commission was intrusted to Michelangelo in August of the same year, 1501.
Condivi, after mentioning his return to Florence, tells the history of the colossal David in
these words: "Here he stayed some time, and made the statue which stands in front of the great
door of the Palace of the Signory, and is called the Giant by all people. It came about in
this way. The Board of Works at S. Maria del Fiore owned a piece of marble nine cubits in height,
which had been brought from Carrara some hundred years before by a sculptor insufficiently
acquainted with his art. This was evident, inasmuch as, wishing to convey it more conveniently
and with less labour, he had it blocked out in the quarry, but in such a manner that neither
he nor any one else was capable of extracting a statue from the block, either of the same size,
or even on a much smaller scale. The marble being, then, useless for any good purpose, Andrea
del Monte San Savino thought that he might get possession of it from the Board, and begged
them to make him a present of it, promising that he would add certain pieces of stone and carve
a statue from it. Before they made up their minds to give it, they sent for Michelangelo; then,
after explaining the wishes and the views of Andrea, and considering his own opinion that it
would be possible to extract a good thing from the block, they finally offered it to him. Michelangelo
accepted, added no pieces, and got the statue out so exactly, that, as any one may see, in
the top of the head and at the base some vestiges of the rough surface of the marble still
remain. He did the same in other works, as, for instance, in the Contemplative Life upon the
tomb of Julius; indeed, it is a sign left by masters on their work, proving them to be absolute
in their art. But in the David it was much more remarkable, for this reason, that the difficulty
of the task was not overcome by adding pieces; and also he had to contend with an ill-shaped
marble. As he used to say himself, it is impossible, or at least extraordinarily difficult
in statuary to set right the faults of the blocking out. He received for this work 400 ducats,
and carried it out in eighteen months."

The sculptor who had spoiled this block of marble is called "Maestro Simone" by Vasari; but
the abundant documents in our possession, by aid of which we are enabled to trace the whole
history of Michelangelo's David with minuteness, show that Vasari was misinformed. The real
culprit was Agostino di Antonio di Duccio, or Guccio, who had succeeded with another colossal
statue for the Duomo. He is honourably known in the history of Tuscan sculpture by his reliefs
upon the façade of the Duomo at Modena, describing episodes in the life of S. Gemignano, by
the romantically charming reliefs in marble, with terracotta settings, on the Oratory of S.
Bernardino at Perugia, and by a large amount of excellent surface-work in stone upon the chapels
of S. Francesco at Rimini. We gather from one of the contracts with Agostino that the marble
was originally blocked out for some prophet. But Michelangelo resolved to make a David; and
two wax models, now preserved in the Museo Buonarroti, neither of which corresponds exactly
with the statue as it exists, show that he felt able to extract a colossal figure in various
attitudes from the damaged block. In the first contract signed between the Consuls of the Arte
della Lana, the Operai del Duomo, and the sculptor, dated August 16, 1501, the terms are thus
settled: "That the worthy master Michelangelo, son of Lodovico Buonarroti, citizen of Florence,
has been chosen to fashion, complete, and finish to perfection that male statue called the
Giant, of nine cubits in height, now existing in the workshop of the cathedral, blocked out
aforetime by Master Agostino of Florence, and badly blocked; and that the work shall be completed
within the term of the next ensuing two years, dating from September, at a salary of six golden
florins per month; and that what is needful for the accomplishment of this task, as workmen,
timbers, &c., which he may require, shall be supplied him by the Operai; and when the statue
is finished, the Consuls and Operai who shall be in office shall estimate whether he deserve
a larger recompense, and this shall be left to their consciences."

II

Michelangelo began to work on Monday morning, September 13, in a wooden shed erected for the
purpose, not far from the cathedral. On the 28th of February 1502, the statue, which is now
called for the first time "the Giant, or David," was brought so far forward that the judges
declared it to be half finished, and decided that the sculptor should be paid in all 400 golden
florins, including the stipulated salary. He seems to have laboured assiduously during the
next two years, for by a minute of the 25th of January 1504 the David is said to be almost
entirely finished. On this date a solemn council of the most important artists resident in
Florence was convened at the Opera del Duomo to consider where it should be placed.

We possess full minutes of this meeting, and they are so curious that I shall not hesitate
to give a somewhat detailed account of the proceedings. Messer Francesco Filarete, the chief
herald of the Signory, and himself an architect of some pretensions, opened the discussion
in a short speech to this effect: "I have turned over in my mind those suggestions which my
judgment could afford me. You have two places where the statue may be set up: the first, that
where the Judith stands; the second, in the middle of the courtyard where the David is. The
first might be selected, because the Judith is an omen of evil, and no fit object where it
stands, we having the cross and lily for our ensign; besides, it is not proper that the woman
should kill the male; and, above all, this statue was erected under an evil constellation,
since you have gone continually from bad to worse since then. Pisa has been lost too. The David
of the courtyard is imperfect in the right leg; and so I should counsel you to put the Giant
in one of these places, but I give the preference myself to that of the Judith." The herald,
it will be perceived, took for granted that Michelangelo's David would be erected in the immediate
neighbourhood of the Palazzo Vecchio. The next speaker, Francesco Monciatto, a wood-carver,
advanced the view that it ought to be placed in front of the Duomo, where the Colossus was
originally meant to be put up. He was immediately followed, and his resolution was seconded,
by no less personages than the painters Cosimo Rosselli and Sandro Botticelli. Then Giuliano
da San Gallo, the illustrious architect, submitted a third opinion to the meeting. He began
his speech by observing that he agreed with those who wished to choose the steps of the Duomo,
but due consideration caused him to alter his mind. "The imperfection of the marble, which
is softened by exposure to the air, rendered the durability of the statue doubtful. He therefore
voted for the middle of the Loggia dei Lanzi, where the David would be under cover." Messer
Angelo di Lorenzo Manfidi, second herald of the Signory, rose to state a professional objection.
"The David, if erected under the middle arch of the Loggia, would break the order of the ceremonies
practised there by the Signory and other magistrates. He therefore proposed that the arch facing
the Palazzo (where Donatello's Judith is now) should be chosen." The three succeeding speakers,
people of no great importance, gave their votes in favour of the chief herald's resolution.
Others followed San Gallo, among whom was the illustrious Lionardo da Vinci. He thought the
statue could be placed under the middle arch of the Loggia without hindrance to ceremonies
of state. Salvestro, a jeweller, and Filippino Lippi, the painter, were of opinion that the
neighbourhood of the Palazzo should be adopted, but that the precise spot should be left to
the sculptor's choice. Gallieno, an embroiderer, and David Ghirlandajo, the painter, suggested
a new place--namely, where the lion or Marzocco stood on the Piazza. Antonio da San Gallo,
the architect, and Michelangelo, the goldsmith, father of Baccio Bandinelli, supported Giuliano
da San Gallo's motion. Then Giovanni Piffero--that is, the father of Benvenuto Cellini--brought
the discussion back to the courtyard of the palace. He thought that in the Loggia the statue
would be only partly seen, and that it would run risks of injury from scoundrels. Giovanni
delle Corniole, the incomparable gem-cutter, who has left us the best portrait of Savonarola,
voted with the two San Galli, "because he hears the stone is soft." Piero di Cosimo, the painter,
and teacher of Andrea del Sarto, wound up the speeches with a strong recommendation that the
choice of the exact spot should be left to Michelangelo Buonarroti. This was eventually decided
on, and he elected to have his David set up in the place preferred by the chief herald--that
is to say, upon the steps of the Palazzo Vecchio, on the right side of the entrance.

The next thing was to get the mighty mass of sculptured marble safely moved from the Duomo
to the Palazzo. On the 1st of April, Simone del Pollajuolo, called Il Cronaca, was commissioned
to make the necessary preparations; but later on, upon the 30th, we find Antonio da San Gallo,
Baccio d'Agnolo, Bernardo della Ciecha, and Michelangelo associated with him in the work of
transportation. An enclosure of stout beams and planks was made and placed on movable rollers.
In the middle of this the statue hung suspended, with a certain liberty of swaying to the shocks
and lurches of the vehicle. More than forty men were employed upon the windlasses which drew
it slowly forward. In a contemporary record we possess a full account of the transit: "On the
14th of May 1504, the marble Giant was taken from the Opera. It came out at 24 o'clock, and
they broke the wall above the gateway enough to let it pass. That night some stones were thrown
at the Colossus with intent to harm it. Watch had to be kept at night; and it made way very
slowly, bound as it was upright, suspended in the air with enormous beams and intricate machinery
of ropes. It took four days to reach the Piazza, arriving on the 18th at the hour of 12. More
than forty men were employed to make it go; and there were fourteen rollers joined beneath
it, which were changed from hand to hand. Afterwards, they worked until the 8th of June 1504
to place it on the platform (ringhiero) where the Judith used to stand. The Judith was removed
and set upon the ground within the palace. The said Giant was the work of Michelangelo Buonarroti."

Where the masters of Florence placed it, under the direction of its maker, Michelangelo's great
white David stood for more than three centuries uncovered, open to all injuries of frost and
rain, and to the violence of citizens, until, for the better preservation of this masterpiece
of modern art, it was removed in 1873 to a hall of the Accademia delle Belle Arti. On the whole,
it has suffered very little. Weather has slightly worn away the extremities of the left foot;
and in 1527, during a popular tumult, the left arm was broken by a huge stone cast by the assailants
of the palace. Giorgio Vasari tells us how, together with his friend Cecchino Salviati, he
collected the scattered pieces, and brought them to the house of Michelangelo Salviati, the
father of Cecchino. They were subsequently put together by the care of the Grand Duke Cosimo,
and restored to the statue in the year 1543.

III

In the David Michelangelo first displayed that quality of terribilità, of spirit-quailing,
awe-inspiring force, for which he afterwards became so famous. The statue imposes, not merely
by its size and majesty and might, but by something vehement in the conception. He was, however,
far from having yet adopted those systematic proportions for the human body which later on
gave an air of monotonous impressiveness to all his figures. On the contrary, this young giant
strongly recalls the model; still more strongly indeed than the Bacchus did. Wishing perhaps
to adhere strictly to the Biblical story, Michelangelo studied a lad whose frame was not developed.
The David, to state the matter frankly, is a colossal hobbledehoy. His body, in breadth of
the thorax, depth of the abdomen, and general stoutness, has not grown up to the scale of the
enormous hands and feet and heavy head. We feel that he wants at least two years to become
a fully developed man, passing from adolescence to the maturity of strength and beauty. This
close observance of the imperfections of the model at a certain stage of physical growth is
very remarkable, and not altogether pleasing in a statue more than nine feet high. Both Donatello
and Verocchio had treated their Davids in the same realistic manner, but they were working
on a small scale and in bronze. I insist upon this point, because students of Michelangelo
have been apt to overlook his extreme sincerity and naturalism in the first stages of his career.

Having acknowledged that the head of David is too massive and the extremities too largely formed
for ideal beauty, hypercriticism can hardly find fault with the modelling and execution of
each part. The attitude selected is one of great dignity and vigour. The heroic boy, quite
certain of victory, is excited by the coming contest. His brows are violently contracted, the
nostrils tense and quivering, the eyes fixed keenly on the distant Philistine. His larynx rises
visibly, and the sinews of his left thigh tighten, as though the whole spirit of the man were
braced for a supreme endeavour. In his right hand, kept at a just middle point between the
hip and knee, he holds the piece of wood on which his sling is hung. The sling runs round his
back, and the centre of it, where the stone bulges, is held with the left hand, poised upon
the left shoulder, ready to be loosed. We feel that the next movement will involve the right
hand straining to its full extent the sling, dragging the stone away, and whirling it into
the air; when, after it has sped to strike Goliath in the forehead, the whole lithe body of
the lad will have described a curve, and recovered its perpendicular position on the two firm
legs. Michelangelo invariably chose some decisive moment; in the action he had to represent;
and though he was working here under difficulties, owing to the limitations of the damaged
block at his disposal, he contrived to suggest the imminence of swift and sudden energy which
shall disturb the equilibrium of his young giant's pose. Critics of this statue, deceived by
its superficial resemblance to some Greek athletes at rest, have neglected the candid realism
of the momentary act foreshadowed. They do not understand the meaning of the sling. Even Heath
Wilson, for instance, writes: "The massive shoulders are thrown back, the right arm is pendent,
and the right hand grasps resolutely the stone with which the adversary is to be slain." This
entirely falsifies the sculptor's motive, misses the meaning of the sling, renders the broad
strap behind the back superfluous, and changes into mere plastic symbolism what Michelangelo
intended to be a moment caught from palpitating life.

It has often been remarked that David's head is modelled upon the type of Donatello's S. George
at Orsanmichele. The observation is just; and it suggests a comment on the habit Michelangelo
early formed of treating the face idealistically, however much he took from study of his models.
Vasari, for example, says that he avoided portraiture, and composed his faces by combining
several individuals. We shall see a new ideal type of the male head emerge in a group of statues,
among which the most distinguished is Giuliano de' Medici at San Lorenzo. We have already seen
a female type created in the Madonnas of S. Peter's and Notre Dame at Bruges. But this is not
the place to discuss Michelangelo's theory of form in general. That must be reserved until
we enter the Sistine Chapel, in order to survey the central and the crowning product of his
genius in its prime.

We have every reason to believe that Michelangelo carved his David with no guidance but drawings
and a small wax model about eighteen inches in height. The inconvenience of this method, which
left the sculptor to wreak his fury on the marble with mallet and chisel, can be readily conceived.
In a famous passage, disinterred by M. Mariette from a French scholar of the sixteenth century,
we have this account of the fiery master's system: "I am able to affirm that I have seen Michelangelo,
at the age of more than sixty years, and not the strongest for his time of life, knock off
more chips from an extremely hard marble in one quarter of an hour than three young stone-cutters
could have done in three or four--a thing quite incredible to one who has not seen it. He put
such impetuosity and fury into his work that I thought the whole must fly to pieces; hurling
to the ground at one blow great fragments three or four inches thick, shaving the line so closely
that if he had overpassed it by a hair's-breadth he ran the risk of losing all, since one cannot
mend a marble afterwards or repair mistakes, as one does with figures of clay and stucco."
It is said that, owing to this violent way of attacking his marble, Michelangelo sometimes
bit too deep into the stone, and had to abandon a promising piece of sculpture. This is one
of the ways of accounting for his numerous unfinished statues. Accordingly a myth has sprung
up representing the great master as working in solitude upon huge blocks, with nothing but
a sketch in wax before him. Fact is always more interesting than fiction; and, while I am upon
the topic of his method, I will introduce what Cellini has left written on this subject. In
his treatise on the Art of Sculpture, Cellini lays down the rule that sculptors in stone ought
first to make a little model two palms high, and after this to form another as large as the
statue will have to be. He illustrates this by a critique of his illustrious predecessors.
"Albeit many able artists rush boldly on the stone with the fierce force of mallet and chisel,
relying on the little model and a good design, yet the result is never found by them to be
so satisfactory as when they fashion the model on a large scale. This is proved by our Donatello,
who was a Titan in the art, and afterwards by the stupendous Michelangelo, who worked in both
ways. Discovering latterly that the small models fell far short of what his excellent genius
demanded, he adopted the habit of making most careful models exactly of the same size as the
marble statue was to be. This we have seen with our own eyes in the Sacristy of S. Lorenzo.
Next, when a man is satisfied with his full-sized model, he must take charcoal, and sketch
out the main view of his figure on the marble in such wise that it shall be distinctly traced;
for he who has not previously settled his design may sometimes find himself deceived by the
chiselling irons. Michelangelo's method in this matter was the best. He used first to sketch
in the principal aspect; and then to begin work by removing the surface stone upon that side,
just as if he intended to fashion a figure in half-relief; and thus he went on gradually uncovering
the rounded form."

Vasari, speaking of four rough-hewn Captives, possibly the figures now in a grotto of the Boboli
Gardens, says: They are well adapted for teaching a beginner how to extract statues from the
marble without injury to the stone. The safe method which they illustrate may be described
as follows. You first take a model in wax or some other hard material, and place it lying in
a vessel full of water. The water, by its nature, presents a level surface; so that, if you
gradually lift the model, the higher parts are first exposed, while the lower parts remain
submerged; and, proceeding thus, the whole round shape at length appears above the water. Precisely
in the same way ought statues to be hewn out from the marble with the chisel; first uncovering
the highest surfaces, and proceeding to disclose the lowest. This method was followed by Michelangelo
while blocking out the Captives, and therefore his Excellency the Duke was fain to have them
used as models by the students in his Academy. It need hardly be remarked that the ingenious
process of "pointing the marble" by means of the "pointing machine" and "scale-stones," which
is at present universally in use among sculptors, had not been invented in the sixteenth century.

IV

I cannot omit a rather childish story which Vasari tells about the David. After it had been
placed upon its pedestal before the palace, and while the scaffolding was still there, Piero
Soderini, who loved and admired Michelangelo, told him that he thought the nose too large.
The sculptor immediately ran up the ladder till he reached a point upon the level of the giant's
shoulder. He then took his hammer and chisel, and, having concealed some dust of marble in
the hollow of his hand, pretended to work off a portion from the surface of the nose. In reality
he left it as he found it; but Soderini, seeing the marble dust fall scattering through the
air, thought that his hint had been taken. When, therefore, Michelangelo called down to him,
"Look at it now!" Soderini shouted up in reply, "I am far more pleased with it; you have given
life to the statue."

At this time Piero Soderini, a man of excellent parts and sterling character, though not gifted
with that mixture of audacity and cunning which impressed the Renaissance imagination, was
Gonfalonier of the Republic. He had been elected to the supreme magistracy for life, and was
practically Doge of Florence. His friendship proved on more than one occasion of some service
to Michelangelo; and while the gigantic David was in progress he gave the sculptor a new commission,
the history of which must now engage us. The Florentine envoys to France had already written
in June 1501 from Lyons, saying that Pierre de Rohan, Maréchal de Gié, who stood high in favour
at the court of Louis XII., greatly desired a copy of the bronze David by Donatello in the
courtyard of the Palazzo Vecchio. He appeared willing to pay for it, but the envoys thought
that he expected to have it as a present. The French alliance was a matter of the highest importance
to Florence, and at this time the Republic was heavily indebted to the French crown. Soderini,
therefore, decided to comply with the Marshal's request, and on the 12th of August 1502 Michelangelo
undertook to model a David of two cubits and a quarter within six months. In the bronze-casting
he was assisted by a special master, Benedetto da Rovezzano. During the next two years a brisk
correspondence was kept up between the envoys and the Signory about the statue, showing the
Marshal's impatience. Meanwhile De Rohan became Duke of Nemours in 1503 by his marriage with
a sister of Louis d'Armagnac, and shortly afterwards he fell into disgrace. Nothing more was
to be expected from him at the court of Blois. But the statue was in progress, and the question
arose to whom it should be given. The choice of the Signory fell on Florimond Robertet, secretary
of finance, whose favour would be useful to the Florentines in their pecuniary transactions
with the King. A long letter from the envoy, Francesco Pandolfini, in September 1505, shows
that Robertet's mind had been sounded on the subject; and we gather from a minute of the Signory,
dated November 6, 1508, that at last the bronze David, weighing about 800 pounds, had been
"packed in the name of God" and sent to Signa on its way to Leghorn. Robertet received it in
due course, and placed it in the courtyard of his château of Bury, near Blois. Here it remained
for more than a century, when it was removed to the château of Villeroy. There it disappeared.
We possess, however, a fine pen-and-ink drawing by the hand of Michelangelo, which may well
have been a design for this second David. The muscular and naked youth, not a mere lad like
the colossal statue, stands firmly posed upon his left leg with the trunk thrown boldly back.
His right foot rests on the gigantic head of Goliath, and his left hand, twisted back upon
the buttock, holds what seems meant for the sling. We see here what Michelangelo's conception
of an ideal David would have been when working under conditions more favourable than the damaged
block afforded. On the margin of the page the following words may be clearly traced: "Davicte
cholla fromba e io chollarcho Michelagniolo,"--David with the sling, and I with the bow.

Meanwhile Michelangelo received a still more important commission on the 24th of April 1503.
The Consuls of the Arte della Lana and the Operai of the Duomo ordered twelve Apostles, each
4-1/4 cubits high, to be carved out of Carrara marble and placed inside the church. The sculptor
undertook to furnish one each year, the Board of Works defraying all expenses, supplying the
costs of Michelangelo's living and his assistants, and paying him two golden florins a month.
Besides this, they had a house built for him in the Borgo Pinti after Il Cronaca's design.
He occupied this house free of charges while he was in Florence, until it became manifest that
the contract of 1503 would never be carried out. Later on, in March 1508, the tenement was
let on lease to him and his heirs. But he only held it a few months; for on the 15th of June
the lease was cancelled, and the house transferred to Sigismondo Martelli.

The only trace surviving of these twelve Apostles is the huge blocked-out S. Matteo, now in
the courtyard of the Accademia. Vasari writes of it as follows: "He also began a statue in
marble of S. Matteo, which, though it is but roughly hewn, shows perfection of design, and
teaches sculptors how to extract figures from the stone without exposing them to injury, always
gaining ground by removing the superfluous material, and being able to withdraw or change in
case of need." This stupendous sketch or shadow of a mighty form is indeed instructive for
those who would understand Michelangelo's method. It fully illustrates the passages quoted
above from Cellini and Vasari, showing how a design of the chief view of the statue must have
been chalked upon the marble, and how the unfinished figure gradually emerged into relief.
Were we to place it in a horizontal position on the ground, that portion of a rounded form
which has been disengaged from the block would emerge just in the same way as a model from
a bath of water not quite deep enough to cover it. At the same time we learn to appreciate
the observations of Vigenere while we study the titanic chisel-marks, grooved deeply in the
body of the stone, and carried to the length of three or four inches. The direction of these
strokes proves that Michelangelo worked equally with both hands, and the way in which they
are hatched and crossed upon the marble reminds one of the pen-drawing of a bold draughtsman.
The mere surface-handling of the stone has remarkable affinity in linear effect to a pair of
the master's pen-designs for a naked man, now in the Louvre. On paper he seems to hew with
the pen, on marble to sketch with the chisel. The saint appears literally to be growing out
of his stone prison, as though he were alive and enclosed there waiting to be liberated. This
recalls Michelangelo's fixed opinion regarding sculpture, which he defined as the art "that
works by force of taking away." In his writings we often find the idea expressed that a statue,
instead of being a human thought invested with external reality by stone, is more truly to
be regarded as something which the sculptor seeks and finds inside his marble--a kind of marvellous
discovery. Thus he says in one of his poems: "Lady, in hard and craggy stone the mere removal
of the surface gives being to a figure, which ever grows the more the stone is hewn away."
And again--

  The best of artists hath no thought to show
  Which the rough stone in its superfluous shell
  Doth not include: to break the marble spell
  Is all the hand that serves the brain can do.

S. Matthew seems to palpitate with life while we scrutinise the amorphous block; and yet there
is little there more tangible than some such form as fancy loves to image in the clouds.

To conclude what I have said in this section about Michelangelo's method of working on the
marble, I must confirm what I have stated about his using both left and right hand while chiselling.
Raffaello da Montelupo, who was well acquainted with him personally, informs us of the fact:
"Here I may mention that I am in the habit of drawing with my left hand, and that once, at
Rome, while I was sketching the Arch of Trajan from the Colosseum, Michelangelo and Sebastiano
del Piombo, both of whom were naturally left-handed (although they did not work with the left
hand excepting when they wished to use great strength), stopped to see me, and expressed great
wonder, no sculptor or painter ever having done so before me, as far as I know."

V

If Vasari can be trusted, it was during this residence at Florence, when his hands were so
fully occupied, that Michelangelo found time to carve the two tondi, Madonnas in relief enclosed
in circular spaces, which we still possess. One of them, made for Taddeo Taddei, is now at
Burlington House, having been acquired by the Royal Academy through the medium of Sir George
Beaumont. This ranks among the best things belonging to that Corporation. The other, made for
Bartolommeo Pitti, will be found in the Palazzo del Bargello at Florence. Of the two, that
of our Royal Academy is the more ambitious in design, combining singular grace and dignity
in the Madonna with action playfully suggested in the infant Christ and little S. John. That
of the Bargello is simpler, more tranquil, and more stately. The one recalls the motive of
the Bruges Madonna, the other almost anticipates the Delphic Sibyl. We might fancifully call
them a pair of native pearls or uncut gems, lovely by reason even of their sketchiness. Whether
by intention, as some critics have supposed, or for want of time to finish, as I am inclined
to believe, these two reliefs are left in a state of incompleteness which is highly suggestive.
Taking the Royal Academy group first, the absolute roughness of the groundwork supplies an
admirable background to the figures, which seem to emerge from it as though the whole of them
were there, ready to be disentangled. The most important portions of the composition--Madonna's
head and throat, the drapery of her powerful breast, on which the child Christ reclines, and
the naked body of the boy--are wrought to a point which only demands finish. Yet parts of these
two figures remain undetermined. Christ's feet are still imprisoned in the clinging marble;
His left arm and hand are only indicated, and His right hand is resting on a mass of broken
stone, which hides a portion of His mother's drapery, but leaves the position of her hand uncertain.
The infant S. John, upright upon his feet, balancing the chief group, is hazily subordinate.
The whole of his form looms blurred through the veil of stone, and what his two hands and arms
are doing with the hidden right arm and hand of the Virgin may hardly be conjectured. It is
clear that on this side of the composition the marble was to have been more deeply cut, and
that we have the highest surfaces of the relief brought into prominence at those points where,
as I have said, little is wanting but the finish of the graver and the file. The Bargello group
is simpler and more intelligible. Its composition by masses being quite apparent, we can easily
construct the incomplete figure of S. John in the background. What results from the study of
these two circular sketches in marble is that, although Michelangelo believed all sculpture
to be imperfect in so far as it approached the style of painting, yet he did not disdain to
labour in stone with various planes of relief which should produce the effect of chiaroscuro.
Furthermore, they illustrate what Cellini and Vasari have already taught us about his method.
He refused to work by piecemeal, but began by disengaging the first, the second, then the third
surfaces, following a model and a drawing which controlled the cutting. Whether he preferred
to leave off when his idea was sufficiently indicated, or whether his numerous engagements
prevented him from excavating the lowest surfaces, and lastly polishing the whole, is a question
which must for ever remain undecided. Considering the exquisite elaboration given to the Pietà
of the Vatican, the Madonna at Bruges, the Bacchus and the David, the Moses and parts of the
Medicean monuments, I incline to think that, with time enough at his disposal, he would have
carried out these rounds in all their details. A criticism he made on Donatello, recorded for
us by Condivi, to the effect that this great master's works lost their proper effect on close
inspection through a want of finish, confirms my opinion. Still there is no doubt that he must
have been pleased, as all true lovers of art are with the picturesque effect--an effect as
of things half seen in dreams or emergent from primeval substances--which the imperfection
of the craftsman's labour leaves upon the memory.

At this time Michelangelo's mind seems to have been much occupied with circular compositions.
He painted a large Holy Family of this shape for his friend Angelo Doni, which may, I think,
be reckoned the only easel-picture attributable with absolute certainty to his hand. Condivi
simply says that he received seventy ducats for this fine work. Vasari adds one of his prattling
stories to the effect that Doni thought forty sufficient; whereupon Michelangelo took the picture
back, and said he would not let it go for less than a hundred: Doni then offered the original
sum of seventy, but Michelangelo replied that if he was bent on bargaining he should not pay
less than 140. Be this as it may, one of the most characteristic products of the master's genius
came now into existence. The Madonna is seated in a kneeling position on the ground; she throws
herself vigorously backward, lifting the little Christ upon her right arm, and presenting him
to a bald-headed old man, S. Joseph, who seems about to take him in his arms. This group, which
forms a tall pyramid, is balanced on both sides by naked figures of young men reclining against
a wall at some distance, while a remarkably ugly little S. John can be discerned in one corner.
There is something very powerful and original in the composition of this sacred picture, which,
as in the case of all Michelangelo's early work, develops the previous traditions of Tuscan
art on lines which no one but himself could have discovered. The central figure of the Madonna,
too, has always seemed to me a thing of marvellous beauty, and of stupendous power in the strained
attitude and nobly modelled arms. It has often been asked what the male nudes have got to do
with the subject. Probably Michelangelo intended in this episode to surpass a Madonna by Luca
Signorelli, with whose genius he obviously was in sympathy, and who felt, like him, the supreme
beauty of the naked adolescent form. Signorelli had painted a circular Madonna with two nudes
in the landscape distance for Lorenzo de' Medici. The picture is hung now in the gallery of
the Uffizi. It is enough perhaps to remark that Michelangelo needed these figures for his scheme,
and for filling the space at his disposal. He was either unable or unwilling to compose a background
of trees, meadows, and pastoral folk in the manner of his predecessors. Nothing but the infinite
variety of human forms upon a barren stage of stone or arid earth would suit his haughty sense
of beauty. The nine persons who make up the picture are all carefully studied from the life,
and bear a strong Tuscan stamp. S. John is literally ignoble, and Christ is a commonplace child.
The Virgin Mother is a magnificent contadina in the plenitude of adult womanhood. Those, however,
who follow Mr. Ruskin in blaming Michelangelo for carelessness about the human face and head,
should not fail to notice what sublime dignity and grace he has communicated to his model here.
In technical execution the Doni Madonna is faithful to old Florentine usage, but lifeless and
unsympathetic. We are disagreeably reminded by every portion of the surface that Lionardo's
subtle play of tones and modulated shades, those sfumature, as Italians call them, which transfer
the mystic charm of nature to the canvas, were as yet unknown to the great draughtsman. There
is more of atmosphere, of colour suggestion, and of chiaroscuro in the marble tondi described
above. Moreover, in spite of very careful modelling, Michelangelo has failed to make us feel
the successive planes of his composition. The whole seems flat, and each distance, instead
of being graduated, starts forward to the eye. He required, at this period of his career, the
relief of sculpture in order to express the roundness of the human form and the relative depth
of objects placed in a receding order. If anything were needed to make us believe the story
of his saying to Pope Julius II. that sculpture and not painting was his trade, this superb
design, so deficient in the essential qualities of painting proper, would suffice. Men infinitely
inferior to himself in genius and sense of form, a Perugino, a Francia, a Fra Bartolommeo,
an Albertinelli, possessed more of the magic which evokes pictorial beauty. Nevertheless, with
all its aridity, rigidity, and almost repulsive hardness of colour, the Doni Madonna ranks
among the great pictures of the world. Once seen it will never be forgotten: it tyrannises
and dominates the imagination by its titanic power of drawing. No one, except perhaps Lionardo,
could draw like that, and Lionardo would not have allowed his linear scheme to impose itself
so remorselessly upon the mind.

VI

Just at this point of his development, Michelangelo was brought into competition with Lionardo
da Vinci, the only living rival worthy of his genius. During the year 1503 Piero Soderini determined
to adorn the hall of the Great Council in the Palazzo Vecchio with huge mural frescoes, which
should represent scenes in Florentine history. Documents regarding the commencement of these
works and the contracts made with the respective artists are unfortunately wanting. But it
appears that Da Vinci received a commission for one of the long walls in the autumn of that
year. We have items of expenditure on record which show that the Municipality of Florence assigned
him the Sala del Papa at S. Maria Novella before February 1504, and were preparing the necessary
furniture for the construction of his Cartoon. It seems that he was hard at work upon the 1st
of April, receiving fifteen golden florins a month for his labour. The subject which he chose
to treat was the battle of Anghiari in 1440, when the Florentine mercenaries entirely routed
the troops of Filippo Maria Visconti, led by Niccolò Piccinino, one of the greatest generals
of his age. In August 1504 Soderini commissioned Michelangelo to prepare Cartoons for the opposite
wall of the great Sala, and assigned to him a workshop in the Hospital of the Dyers at S. Onofrio.
A minute of expenditure, under date October 31, 1504, shows that the paper for the Cartoon
had been already provided; and Michelangelo continued to work upon it until his call to Rome
at the beginning of 1505. Lionardo's battle-piece consisted of two groups on horseback engaged
in a fierce struggle for a standard. Michelangelo determined to select a subject which should
enable him to display all his power as the supreme draughtsman of the nude. He chose an episode
from the war with Pisa, when, on the 28th of July 1364, a band of 400 Florentine soldiers were
surprised bathing by Sir John Hawkwood and his English riders. It goes by the name of the Battle
of Pisa, though the event really took place at Cascina on the Arno, some six miles above that city.

We have every reason to regard the composition of this Cartoon as the central point in Michelangelo's
life as an artist. It was the watershed, so to speak, which divided his earlier from his later
manner; and if we attach any value to the critical judgment of his enthusiastic admirer, Cellini,
even the roof of the Sistine fell short of its perfection. Important, however, as it certainly
is in the history of his development, I must defer speaking of it in detail until the end of
the next chapter. For some reason or other, unknown to us, he left his work unfinished early
in 1505, and went, at the Pope's invitation, to Rome. When he returned, in the ensuing year,
to Florence, he resumed and completed the design. Some notion of its size may be derived from
what we know about the material supplied for Lionardo's Cartoon. This, say Crowe and Cavalcaselle,
"was made up of one ream and twenty-nine quires, or about 288 square feet of royal folio paper,
the mere pasting of which necessitated a consumption of eighty-eight pounds of flour, the mere
lining of which required three pieces of Florentine linen."

Condivi, summing up his notes of this period spent by Michelangelo at Florence, says: "He stayed
there some time without working to much purpose in his craft, having taken to the study of
poets and rhetoricians in the vulgar tongue, and to the composition of sonnets for his pleasure."
It is difficult to imagine how Michelangelo, with all his engagements, found the leisure to
pursue these literary amusements. But Condivi's biography is the sole authentic source which
we possess for the great master's own recollections of his past life. It is, therefore, not
improbable that in the sentence I have quoted we may find some explanation of the want of finish
observable in his productions at this point. Michelangelo was, to a large extent, a dreamer;
and this single phrase throws light upon the expanse of time, the barren spaces, in his long
laborious life. The poems we now possess by his pen are clearly the wreck of a vast multitude;
and most of those accessible in manuscript and print belong to a later stage of his development.
Still the fact remains that in early manhood he formed the habit of conversing with writers
of Italian and of fashioning his own thoughts into rhyme. His was a nature capable indeed of
vehement and fiery activity, but by constitution somewhat saturnine and sluggish, only energetic
when powerfully stimulated; a meditative man, glad enough to be inert when not spurred forward
on the path of strenuous achievement. And so, it seems, the literary bent took hold upon him
as a relief from labour, as an excuse for temporary inaction. In his own art, the art of design,
whether this assumed the form of sculpture or of painting or of architecture, he did nothing
except at the highest pressure. All his accomplished work shows signs of the intensest cerebration.
But he tried at times to slumber, sunk in a wise passiveness. Then he communed with the poets,
the prophets, and the prose-writers of his country. We can well imagine, therefore, that, tired
with the labours of the chisel or the brush, he gladly gave himself to composition, leaving
half finished on his easel things which had for him their adequate accomplishment.

I think it necessary to make these suggestions, because, in my opinion, Michelangelo's inner
life and his literary proclivities have been hitherto too much neglected in the scheme of his
psychology. Dazzled by the splendour of his work, critics are content to skip spaces of months
and years, during which the creative genius of the man smouldered. It is, as I shall try to
show, in those intervals, dimly revealed to us by what remains of his poems and his correspondence,
that the secret of this man, at once so tardy and so energetic; has to be discovered.

A great master of a different temperament, less solitary, less saturnine, less sluggish, would
have formed a school, as Raffaello did. Michelangelo formed no school, and was incapable of
confiding the execution of his designs to any subordinates. This is also a point of the highest
importance to insist upon. Had he been other than he was--a gregarious man, contented with
the à peu près in art--he might have sent out all those twelve Apostles for the Duomo from
his workshop. Raffaello would have done so; indeed, the work which bears his name in Rome could
not have existed except under these conditions. Now nothing is left to us of the twelve Apostles
except a rough-hewn sketch of S. Matthew. Michelangelo was unwilling or unable to organise
a band of craftsmen fairly interpretative of his manner. When his own hand failed, or when
he lost the passion for his labour, he left the thing unfinished. And much of this incompleteness
in his life-work seems to me due to his being what I called a dreamer. He lacked the merely
business faculty, the power of utilising hands and brains. He could not bring his genius into
open market, and stamp inferior productions with his countersign. Willingly he retired into
the solitude of his own self, to commune with great poets and to meditate upon high thoughts,
while he indulged the emotions arising from forms of strength and beauty presented to his gaze
upon the pathway of experience.

CHAPTER IV

I

Among the many nephews whom Sixtus IV. had raised to eminence, the most distinguished was Giuliano
della Rovere, Cardinal of S. Pietro in Vincoli, and Bishop of Ostia. This man possessed a fiery
temper, indomitable energy, and the combative instinct which takes delight in fighting for
its own sake. Nature intended him for a warrior; and, though circumstances made him chief of
the Church, he discharged his duties as a Pontiff in the spirit of a general and a conqueror.
When Julius II. was elected in November 1503, it became at once apparent that he intended to
complete what his hated predecessors, the Borgias, had begun, by reducing to his sway all the
provinces over which the See of Rome had any claims, and creating a central power in Italy.
Unlike the Borgias, however, he entertained no plan of raising his own family to sovereignty
at the expense of the Papal power. The Della Roveres were to be contented with their Duchy
of Urbino, which came to them by inheritance from the Montefeltri. Julius dreamed of Italy
for the Italians, united under the hegemony of the Supreme Pontiff, who from Rome extended
his spiritual authority and political influence over the whole of Western Europe. It does not
enter into the scheme of this book to relate the series of wars and alliances in which this
belligerent Pope involved his country, and the final failure of his policy, so far as the liberation
of Italy from the barbarians was concerned. Suffice it to say, that at the close of his stormy
reign he had reduced the States of the Church to more or less complete obedience, bequeathing
to his successors an ecclesiastical kingdom which the enfeebled condition of the peninsula
at large enabled them to keep intact.

There was nothing petty or mean in Julius II.; his very faults bore a grandiose and heroic
aspect. Turbulent, impatient, inordinate in his ambition, reckless in his choice of means,
prolific of immense projects, for which a lifetime would have been too short, he filled the
ten years of his pontificate with a din of incoherent deeds and vast schemes half accomplished.
Such was the man who called Michelangelo to Rome at the commencement of 1505. Why the sculptor
was willing to leave his Cartoon unfinished, and to break his engagement with the Operai del
Duomo, remains a mystery. It is said that the illustrious architect, Giuliano da San Gallo,
who had worked for Julius while he was cardinal, and was now his principal adviser upon matters
of art, suggested to the Pope that Buonarroti could serve him admirably in his ambitious enterprises
for the embellishment of the Eternal City. We do not know for certain whether Julius, when
he summoned Michelangelo from Florence, had formed the design of engaging him upon a definite
piece of work. The first weeks of his residence in Rome are said to have been spent in inactivity,
until at last Julius proposed to erect a huge monument of marble for his own tomb.

Thus began the second and longest period of Michelangelo's art-industry. Henceforth he was
destined to labour for a series of Popes, following their whims with distracted energies and
a lamentable waste of time. The incompleteness which marks so much of his performance was due
to the rapid succession of these imperious masters, each in turn careless about the schemes
of his predecessor, and bent on using the artist's genius for his own profit. It is true that
nowhere but in Rome could Michelangelo have received commissions on so vast a scale. Nevertheless
we cannot but regret the fate which drove him to consume years of hampered industry upon what
Condivi calls "the tragedy of Julius's tomb," upon quarrying and road-making for Leo X., upon
the abortive plans at S. Lorenzo, and upon architectural and engineering works, which were
not strictly within his province. At first it seemed as though fortune was about to smile on
him. In Julius he found a patron who could understand and appreciate his powers. Between the
two men there existed a strong bond of sympathy due to community of temperament. Both aimed
at colossal achievements in their respective fields of action. The imagination of both was
fired by large and simple rather than luxurious and subtle thoughts. Both were uomini terribili,
to use a phrase denoting vigour of character and energy of genius, made formidable by an abrupt,
uncompromising spirit. Both worked with what the Italians call fury, with the impetuosity of
daemonic natures; and both left the impress of their individuality stamped indelibly upon their
age. Julius, in all things grandiose, resolved to signalise his reign by great buildings, great
sculpture, great pictorial schemes. There was nothing of the dilettante and collector about
him. He wanted creation at a rapid rate and in enormous quantities. To indulge this craving,
he gathered round him a band of demigods and Titans, led by Bramante, Raffaello, Michelangelo,
and enjoyed the spectacle of a new world of art arising at his bidding through their industry
of brain and hand.

II

What followed upon Michelangelo's arrival in Rome may be told in Condivi's words: "Having reached
Rome, many months elapsed before Julius decided on what great work he would employ him. At
last it occurred to him to use his genius in the construction of his own tomb. The design furnished
by Michelangelo pleased the Pope so much that he sent him off immediately to Carrara, with
commission to quarry as much marble as was needful for that undertaking. Two thousand ducats
were put to his credit with Alamanni Salviati at Florence for expenses. He remained more than
eight months among those mountains, with two servants and a horse, but without any salary except
his keep. One day, while inspecting the locality, the fancy took him to convert a hill which
commands the sea-shore into a Colossus, visible by mariners afar. The shape of the huge rock,
which lent itself admirably to such a purpose, attracted him; and he was further moved to emulate
the ancients, who, sojourning in the place peradventure with the same object as himself, in
order to while away the time, or for some other motive, have left certain unfinished and rough-hewn
monuments, which give a good specimen of their craft. And assuredly he would have carried out
this scheme, if time enough had been at his disposal, or if the special purpose of his visit
to Carrara had permitted. I one day heard him lament bitterly that he had not done so. Well,
then, after quarrying and selecting the blocks which he deemed sufficient, he had them brought
to the sea, and left a man of his to ship them off. He returned to Rome, and having stopped
some days in Florence on the way, when he arrived there, he found that part of the marble had
already reached the Ripa. There he had them disembarked, and carried to the Piazza of S. Peter's
behind S. Caterina, where he kept his lodging, close to the corridor connecting the Palace
with the Castle of S. Angelo. The quantity of stone was enormous, so that, when it was all
spread out upon the square, it stirred amazement in the minds of most folk, but joy in the
Pope's. Julius indeed began to heap favours upon Michelangelo; for when he had begun to work,
the Pope used frequently to betake himself to his house, conversing there with him about the
tomb, and about other works which he proposed to carry out in concert with one of his brothers.
In order to arrive more conveniently at Michelangelo's lodgings, he had a drawbridge thrown
across from the corridor, by which he might gain privy access."

The date of Michelangelo's return to Rome is fixed approximately by a contract signed at Carrara
between him and two shipowners of Lavagna. This deed is dated November 12, 1505. It shows that
thirty-four cartloads of marble were then ready for shipment, together with two figures weighing
fifteen cartloads more. We have a right to assume that Michelangelo left Carrara soon after
completing this transaction. Allowing, then, for the journey and the halt at Florence, he probably
reached Rome in the last week of that month.

III

The first act in the tragedy of the sepulchre had now begun, and Michelangelo was embarked
upon one of the mightiest undertakings which a sovereign of the stamp of Julius ever intrusted
to a sculptor of his titanic energy. In order to form a conception of the magnitude of the
enterprise, I am forced to enter into a discussion regarding the real nature of the monument.
This offers innumerable difficulties, for we only possess imperfect notices regarding the original
design, and two doubtful drawings belonging to an uncertain period. Still it is impossible
to understand those changes in the Basilica of S. Peter's which were occasioned by the project
of Julius, or to comprehend the immense annoyances to which the tomb exposed Michelangelo,
without grappling with its details. Condivi's text must serve for guide. This, in fact, is
the sole source of any positive value. He describes the tomb, as he believed it to have been
first planned, in the following paragraph:--

"To give some notion of the monument, I will say that it was intended to have four faces: two
of eighteen cubits, serving for the sides, and two of twelve for the ends, so that the whole
formed one great square and a half. Surrounding it externally were niches to be filled with
statues, and between each pair of niches stood terminal figures, to the front of which were
attached on certain consoles projecting from the wall another set of statues bound like prisoners.
These represented the Liberal Arts, and likewise Painting, Sculpture, Architecture, each with
characteristic emblems, rendering their identification easy. The intention was to show that
all the talents had been taken captive by death, together with Pope Julius, since never would
they find another patron to cherish and encourage them as he had done. Above these figures
ran a cornice, giving unity to the whole work. Upon the flat surface formed by this cornice
were to be four large statues, one of which, that is, the Moses, now exists at S. Pietro ad
Vincula. And so, arriving at the summit, the tomb ended in a level space, whereon were two
angels who supported a sarcophagus. One of them appeared to smile, rejoicing that the soul
of the Pope had been received among the blessed spirits; the other seemed to weep, as sorrowing
that the world had been robbed of such a man. From one of the ends, that is, by the one which
was at the head of the monument, access was given to a little chamber like a chapel, enclosed
within the monument, in the midst of which was a marble chest, wherein the corpse of the Pope
was meant to be deposited. The whole would have been executed with stupendous finish. In short,
the sepulchre included more than forty statues, not counting the histories in half-reliefs,
made of bronze, all of them pertinent to the general scheme and representative of the mighty
Pontiff's actions."

Vasari's account differs in some minor details from Condivi's, but it is of no authoritative
value. Not having appeared in the edition of 1550, we may regard it as a réchauffée of Condivi,
with the usual sauce provided by the Aretine's imagination. The only addition I can discover
which throws light upon Condivi's narrative is that the statues in the niches were meant to
represent provinces conquered by Julius. This is important, because it leads us to conjecture
that Vasari knew a drawing now preserved in the Uffizi, and sought, by its means, to add something
to his predecessor's description. The drawing will occupy our attention shortly; but it may
here be remarked that in 1505, the date of the first project, Julius was only entering upon
his conquests. It would have been a gross act of flattery on the part of the sculptor, a flying
in the face of Nemesis on the part of his patron, to design a sepulchre anticipating length
of life and luck sufficient for these triumphs.

What then Condivi tells us about the first scheme is, that it was intended to stand isolated
in the tribune of S. Peter's; that it formed a rectangle of a square and half a square; that
the podium was adorned with statues in niches flanked by projecting dadoes supporting captive
arts, ten in number; that at each corner of the platform above the podium a seated statue was
placed, one of which we may safely identify with the Moses; and that above this, surmounting
the whole monument by tiers, arose a second mass, culminating in a sarcophagus supported by
two angels. He further adds that the tomb was entered at its extreme end by a door, which led
to a little chamber where lay the body of the Pope, and that bronze bas-reliefs formed a prominent
feature of the total scheme. He reckons that more than forty statues would have been required
to complete the whole design, although he has only mentioned twenty-two of the most prominent.

More than this we do not know about the first project. We have no contracts and no sketches
that can be referred to the date 1505. Much confusion has been introduced into the matter under
consideration by the attempt to reconcile Condivi's description with the drawing I have just
alluded to. Heath Wilson even used that drawing to impugn Condivi's accuracy with regard to
the number of the captives, and the seated figures on the platform. The drawing in question,
as we shall presently see, is of great importance for the subsequent history of the monument;
and I believe that it to some extent preserves the general aspect which the tomb, as first
designed, was intended to present. Two points about it, however, prevent our taking it as a
true guide to Michelangelo's original conception. One is that it is clearly only part of a
larger scheme of composition. The other is that it shows a sarcophagus, not supported by angels,
but posed upon the platform. Moreover, it corresponds to the declaration appended in 1513 by
Michelangelo to the first extant document we possess about the tomb.

Julius died in February 1513, leaving, it is said, to his executors directions that his sepulchre
should not be carried out upon the first colossal plan. If he did so, they seem at the beginning
of their trust to have disregarded his intentions. Michelangelo expressly states in one of
his letters that the Cardinal of Agen wished to proceed with the tomb, but on a larger scale.
A deed dated May 6, 1513, was signed, at the end of which Michelangelo specified the details
of the new design. It differed from the former in many important respects, but most of all
in the fact that now the structure was to be attached to the wall of the church. I cannot do
better than translate Michelangelo's specifications. They run as follows: "Let it be known
to all men that I, Michelangelo, sculptor of Florence, undertake to execute the sepulchre of
Pope Julius in marble, on the commission of the Cardinal of Agens and the Datary (Pucci), who,
after his death, have been appointed to complete this work, for the sum of 16,500 golden ducats
of the Camera; and the composition of the said sepulchre is to be in the form ensuing: A rectangle
visible from three of its sides, the fourth of which is attached to the wall and cannot be
seen. The front face, that is, the head of this rectangle, shall be twenty palms in breadth
and fourteen in height, the other two, running up against the wall, shall be thirty-five palms
long and likewise fourteen palms in height. Each of these three sides shall contain two tabernacles,
resting on a basement which shall run round the said space, and shall be adorned with pilasters,
architrave, frieze, and cornice, as appears in the little wooden model. In each of the said
six tabernacles will be placed two figures about one palm taller than life (i.e., 6-3/4 feet),
twelve in all; and in front of each pilaster which flanks a tabernacle shall stand a figure
of similar size, twelve in all. On the platform above the said rectangular structure stands
a sarcophagus with four feet, as may be seen in the model, upon which will be Pope Julius sustained
by two angels at his head, with two at his feet; making five figures on the sarcophagus, all
larger than life, that is, about twice the size. Round about the said sarcophagus will be placed
six dadoes or pedestals, on which six figures of the same dimensions will sit. Furthermore,
from the platform, where it joins the wall, springs a little chapel about thirty-five palms
high (26 feet 3 inches), which shall contain five figures larger than all the rest, as being
farther from the eye. Moreover, there shall be three histories, either of bronze or of marble,
as may please the said executors, introduced on each face of the tomb between one tabernacle
and another." All this Michelangelo undertook to execute in seven years for the stipulated sum.

The new project involved thirty-eight colossal statues; and, fortunately for our understanding
of it, we may be said with almost absolute certainty to possess a drawing intended to represent
it. Part of this is a pen-and-ink sketch at the Uffizi, which has frequently been published,
and part is a sketch in the Berlin Collection. These have been put together by Professor Middleton
of Cambridge, who has also made out a key-plan of the tomb. With regard to its proportions
and dimensions as compared with Michelangelo's specification, there remain some difficulties,
with which I cannot see that Professor Middleton has grappled. It is perhaps not improbable,
as Heath Wilson suggested, that the drawing had been thrown off as a picturesque forecast of
the monument without attention to scale. Anyhow, there is no doubt that in this sketch, so
happily restored by Professor Middleton's sagacity and tact, we are brought close to Michelangelo's
conception of the colossal work he never was allowed to execute. It not only answers to the
description translated above from the sculptor's own appendix to the contract, but it also
throws light upon the original plan of the tomb designed for the tribune of S. Peter's. The
basement of the podium has been preserved, we may assume, in its more salient features. There
are the niches spoken of by Condivi, with Vasari's conquered provinces prostrate at the feet
of winged Victories. These are flanked by the terminal figures, against which, upon projecting
consoles, stand the bound captives. At the right hand facing us, upon the upper platform, is
seated Moses, with a different action of the hands, it is true, from that which Michelangelo
finally adopted. Near him is a female figure, and the two figures grouped upon the left angle
seem to be both female. To some extent these statues bear out Vasari's tradition that the platform
in the first design was meant to sustain figures of the contemplative and active life of the
soul--Dante's Leah and Rachel.

This great scheme was never carried out. The fragments which may be safely assigned to it are
the Moses at S. Pietro in Vincoli and the two bound captives of the Louvre; the Madonna and
Child, Leah and Rachel, and two seated statues also at S. Pietro in Vincoli, belong to the
plan, though these have undergone considerable alterations. Some other scattered fragments
of the sculptor's work may possibly be connected with its execution. Four male figures roughly
hewn, which are now wrought into the rock-work of a grotto in the Boboli Gardens, together
with the young athlete trampling on a prostrate old man (called the Victory) and the Adonis
of the Museo Nazionale at Florence, have all been ascribed to the sepulchre of Julius in one
or other of its stages. But these attributes are doubtful, and will be criticised in their
proper place and time. Suffice it now to say that Vasari reports, beside the Moses, Victory,
and two Captives at the Louvre, eight figures for the tomb blocked out by Michelangelo at Rome,
and five blocked out at Florence.

Continuing the history of this tragic undertaking, we come to the year 1516. On the 8th of
July in that year, Michelangelo signed a new contract, whereby the previous deed of 1513 was
annulled. Both of the executors were alive and parties to this second agreement. "A model was
made, the width of which is stated at twenty-one feet, after the monument had been already
sculptured of a width of almost twenty-three feet. The architectural design was adhered to
with the same pedestals and niches and the same crowning cornice of the first story. There
were to be six statues in front, but the conquered provinces were now dispensed with. There
was also to be one niche only on each flank, so that the projection of the monument from the
wall was reduced more than half, and there were to be only twelve statues beneath the cornice
and one relief, instead of twenty-four statues and three reliefs. On the summit of this basement
a shrine was to be erected, within which was placed the effigy of the Pontiff on his sarcophagus,
with two heavenly guardians. The whole of the statues described in this third contract amount
to nineteen." Heath Wilson observes, with much propriety, that the most singular fact about
these successive contracts is the departure from certain fixed proportions both of the architectural
parts and the statues, involving a serious loss of outlay and of work. Thus the two Captives
of the Louvre became useless, and, as we know, they were given away to Ruberto Strozzi in a
moment of generosity by the sculptor. The sitting figures detailed in the deed of 1516 are
shorter than the Moses by one foot. The standing figures, now at S. Pietro in Vincoli, correspond
to the specifications. What makes the matter still more singular is, that after signing the
contract under date July 8, 1516, Michelangelo in November of the same year ordered blocks
of marble from Carrara, with measurements corresponding to the specifications of the deed of 1513.

The miserable tragedy of the sepulchre dragged on for another sixteen years. During this period
the executors of Julius passed away, and the Duke Francesco Maria della Rovere replaced them.
He complained that Michelangelo neglected the tomb, which was true, although the fault lay
not with the sculptor, but with the Popes, his taskmasters. Legal proceedings were instituted
to recover a large sum of money, which, it was alleged, had been disbursed without due work
delivered by the master. Michelangelo had recourse to Clement VII., who, being anxious to monopolise
his labour, undertook to arrange matters with the Duke. On the 29th of April 1532 a third and
solemn contract was signed at Rome in presence of the Pope, witnessed by a number of illustrious
personages. This third contract involved a fourth design for the tomb, which Michelangelo undertook
to furnish, and at the same time to execute six statues with his own hand. On this occasion
the notion of erecting it in S. Peter's was finally abandoned. The choice lay between two other
Roman churches, that of S. Maria del Popolo, where monuments to several members of the Della
Rovere family existed, and that of S. Pietro in Vincoli, from which Julius II. had taken his
cardinal's title. Michelangelo decided for the latter, on account of its better lighting. The
six statues promised by Michelangelo are stated in the contract to be "begun and not completed,
extant at the present date in Rome or in Florence." Which of the several statues blocked out
for the monument were to be chosen is not stated; and as there are no specifications in the
document, we cannot identify them with exactness. At any rate, the Moses must have been one;
and it is possible that the Leah and Rachel, Madonna, and two seated statues, now at S. Pietro,
were the other five.

It might have been thought that at last the tragedy had dragged on to its conclusion. But no;
there was a fifth act, a fourth contract, a fifth design. Paul III. succeeded to Clement VII.,
and, having seen the Moses in Michelangelo's workshop, declared that this one statue was enough
for the deceased Pope's tomb. The Duke Francesco Maria della Rovere died in 1538, and was succeeded
by his son, Guidobaldo II. The new Duke's wife was a granddaughter of Paul III., and this may
have made him amenable to the Pope's influence. At all events, upon the 20th of August 1542
a final contract was signed, stating that Michelangelo had been prevented "by just and legitimate
impediments from carrying out" his engagement under date April 29, 1532, releasing him from
the terms of the third deed, and establishing new conditions. The Moses, finished by the hand
of Michelangelo, takes the central place in this new monument. Five other statues are specified:
"to wit, a Madonna with the child in her arms, which is already finished; a Sibyl, a Prophet,
an Active Life and a Contemplative Life, blocked out and nearly completed by the said Michelangelo."
These four were given to Raffaello da Montelupo to finish. The reclining portrait-statue of
Julius, which was carved by Maso del Bosco, is not even mentioned in this contract. But a deed
between the Duke's representative and the craftsmen Montelupo and Urbino exists, in which the
latter undertakes to see that Michelangelo shall retouch the Pope's face.

Thus ended the tragedy of the tomb of Pope Julius II. It is supposed to have been finally completed
in 1545, and was set up where it still remains uninjured at S. Pietro in Vincoli.

IV

I judged it needful to anticipate the course of events by giving this brief history of a work
begun in 1505, and carried on with so many hindrances and alterations through forty years of
Michelangelo's life. We shall often have to return to it, since the matter cannot be lightly
dismissed. The tomb of Julius empoisoned Michelangelo's manhood, hampered his energy, and brought
but small if any profit to his purse. In one way or another it is always cropping up, and may
be said to vex his biographers and the students of his life as much as it annoyed himself.
We may now return to those early days in Rome, when the project had still a fascination both
for the sculptor and his patron.

The old Basilica of S. Peter on the Vatican is said to have been built during the reign of
Constantine, and to have been consecrated in 324 A.D. It was one of the largest of those Roman
buildings, measuring 435 feet in length from the great door to the end of the tribune. A spacious
open square or atrium, surrounded by a cloister-portico, gave access to the church. This, in
the Middle Ages, gained the name of the Paradiso. A kind of tabernacle, in the centre of the
square, protected the great bronze fir-cone, which was formerly supposed to have crowned the
summit of Hadrian's Mausoleum, the Castle of S. Angelo. Dante, who saw it in the courtyard
of S. Peter's, used it as a standard for his giant Nimrod. He says--

  La faccia sua ml parea lunga e grossa,
  Come la pina di San Pietro a Roma.
                                      --(Inf. xxxi. 58.)

This mother-church of Western Christendom was adorned inside and out with mosaics in the style
of those which may still be seen at Ravenna. Above the lofty row of columns which flanked the
central aisle ran processions of saints and sacred histories. They led the eye onward to what
was called the Arch of Triumph, separating this portion of the building from the transept and
the tribune. The concave roof of the tribune itself was decorated with a colossal Christ, enthroned
between S. Peter and S. Paul, surveying the vast spaces of his house: the lord and master,
before whom pilgrims from all parts of Europe came to pay tribute and to perform acts of homage.
The columns were of precious marbles, stripped from Pagan palaces and temples; and the roof
was tiled with plates of gilded bronze, torn in the age of Heraclius from the shrine of Venus
and of Roma on the Sacred Way.

During the eleven centuries which elapsed between its consecration and the decree for its destruction,
S. Peter's had been gradually enriched with a series of monuments, inscriptions, statues, frescoes,
upon which were written the annals of successive ages of the Church. Giotto worked there under
Benedict II. in 1340. Pope after Pope was buried there. In the early period of Renaissance
sculpture, Mino da Fiesole, Pollaiuolo, and Filarete added works in bronze and marble, which
blent the grace of Florentine religious tradition with quaint neo-pagan mythologies. These
treasures, priceless for the historian, the antiquary, and the artist, were now going to be
ruthlessly swept away at a pontiff's bidding, in order to make room for his haughty and self-laudatory
monument. Whatever may have been the artistic merits of Michelangelo's original conception
for the tomb, the spirit was in no sense Christian. Those rows of captive Arts and Sciences,
those Victories exulting over prostrate cities, those allegorical colossi symbolising the mundane
virtues of a mighty ruler's character, crowned by the portrait of the Pope, over whom Heaven
rejoiced while Cybele deplored his loss--all this pomp of power and parade of ingenuity harmonised
but little with the humility of a contrite soul returning to its Maker and its Judge. The new
temple, destined to supersede the old basilica, embodied an aspect of Latin Christianity which
had very little indeed in common with the piety of the primitive Church. S. Peter's, as we
see it now, represents the majesty of Papal Rome, the spirit of a secular monarchy in the hands
of priests; it is the visible symbol of that schism between the Teutonic and the Latin portions
of the Western Church which broke out soon after its foundation, and became irreconcilable
before the cross was placed upon its cupola. It seemed as though in sweeping away the venerable
traditions of eleven hundred years, and replacing Rome's time-honoured Mother-Church with an
edifice bearing the brand-new stamp of hybrid neo-pagan architecture, the Popes had wished
to signalise that rupture with the past and that atrophy of real religious life which marked
the counter-reformation.

Julius II. has been severely blamed for planning the entire reconstruction of his cathedral.
It must, however, be urged in his defence that the structure had already, in 1447, been pronounced
insecure. Nicholas V. ordered his architects, Bernardo Rossellini and Leo Battista Alberti,
to prepare plans for its restoration. It is, of course, impossible for us to say for certain
whether the ancient fabric could have been preserved, or whether its dilapidation had gone
so far as to involve destruction. Bearing in mind the recklessness of the Renaissance and the
passion which the Popes had for engaging in colossal undertakings, one is inclined to suspect
that the unsound state of the building was made a pretext for beginning a work which flattered
the architectural tastes of Nicholas, but was not absolutely necessary. However this may have
been, foundations for a new tribune were laid outside the old apse, and the wall rose some
feet above the ground before the Pope's death. Paul II. carried on the building; but during
the pontificates of Sixtus, Innocent, and Alexander it seems to have been neglected. Meanwhile
nothing had been done to injure the original basilica; and when Julius announced his intention
of levelling it to the ground, his cardinals and bishops entreated him to refrain from an act
so sacrilegious. The Pope was not a man to take advice or make concessions. Accordingly, turning
a deaf ear to these entreaties, he had plans prepared by Giuliano da San Gallo and Bramante.
Those eventually chosen were furnished by Bramante; and San Gallo, who had hitherto enjoyed
the fullest confidence of Julius, is said to have left Rome in disgust. For reasons which will
afterwards appear, he could not have done so before the summer months of 1506.

It is not yet the proper time to discuss the building of S. Peter's. Still, with regard to
Bramante's plan, this much may here be said. It was designed in the form of a Greek cross,
surmounted with a huge circular dome and flanked by two towers. Bramante used to boast that
he meant to raise the Pantheon in the air; and the plan, as preserved for us by Serlio, shows
that the cupola would have been constructed after that type. Competent judges, however, declare
that insuperable difficulties must have arisen in carrying out this design, while the piers
constructed by Bramante were found in effect to be wholly insufficient for their purpose. For
the aesthetic beauty and the commodiousness of his building we have the strongest evidence
in a letter written by Michelangelo, who was by no means a partial witness. "It cannot be denied,"
he says, "that Bramante's talent as an architect was equal to that of any one from the times
of the ancients until now. He laid the first plan of S. Peter's, not confused, but clear and
simple, full of light and detached from surrounding buildings, so that it interfered with no
part of the palace. It was considered a very fine design, and indeed any one can see with his
own eyes now that it is so. All the architects who departed from Bramante's scheme, as did
Antonio da San Gallo, have departed from the truth." Though Michelangelo gave this unstinted
praise to Bramante's genius as a builder, he blamed him severely both for his want of honesty
as a man, and also for his vandalism in dealing with the venerable church he had to replace.
"Bramante," says Condivi, "was addicted, as everybody knows, to every kind of pleasure. He
spent enormously, and, though the pension granted him by the Pope was large, he found it insufficient
for his needs. Accordingly he made profit out of the works committed to his charge, erecting
the walls of poor material, and without regard for the substantial and enduring qualities which
fabrics on so huge a scale demanded. This is apparent in the buildings at S. Peter's, the Corridore
of the Belvedere, the Convent of San Pietro ad Vincula, and other of his edifices, which have
had to be strengthened and propped up with buttresses and similar supports in order to prevent
them tumbling down." Bramante, during his residence in Lombardy, developed a method of erecting
piers with rubble enclosed by hewn stone or plaster-covered brickwork. This enabled an unconscientious
builder to furnish bulky architectural masses, which presented a specious aspect of solidity
and looked more costly than they really were. It had the additional merit of being easy and
rapid in execution. Bramante was thus able to gratify the whims and caprices of his impatient
patron, who desired to see the works of art he ordered rise like the fabric of Aladdin's lamp
before his very eyes. Michelangelo is said to have exposed the architect's trickeries to the
Pope; what is more, he complained with just and bitter indignation of the wanton ruthlessness
with which Bramante set about his work of destruction. I will again quote Condivi here, for
the passage seems to have been inspired by the great sculptor's verbal reminiscences: "The
worst was, that while he was pulling down the old S. Peter's, he dashed those marvellous antique
columns to the ground, without paying the least attention, or caring at all when they were
broken into fragments, although he might have lowered them gently and preserved their shafts
intact. Michelangelo pointed out that it was an easy thing enough to erect piers by placing
brick on brick, but that to fashion a column like one of these taxed all the resources of art."

On the 18th of April 1506, Julius performed the ceremony of laying the foundation-stone of
the new S. Peter's. The place chosen was the great sustaining pier of the dome, near which
the altar of S. Veronica now stands. A deep pit had been excavated, into which the aged Pope
descended fearlessly, only shouting to the crowd above that they should stand back and not
endanger the falling in of the earth above him. Coins and medals were duly deposited in a vase,
over which a ponderous block of marble was lowered, while Julius, bareheaded, sprinkled the
stone with holy water and gave the pontifical benediction. On the same day he wrote a letter
to Henry VII. of England, informing the King that "by the guidance of our Lord and Saviour
Jesus Christ he had undertaken to restore the old basilica which was perishing through age."

V

The terms of cordial intimacy which subsisted between Julius and Michelangelo at the close
of 1505 were destined to be disturbed. The Pope intermitted his visits to the sculptor's workshop,
and began to take but little interest in the monument. Condivi directly ascribes this coldness
to the intrigues of Bramante, who whispered into the Pontiff's ear that it was ill-omened for
a man to construct his own tomb in his lifetime. It is not at all improbable that he said something
of the sort, and Bramante was certainly no good friend to Michelangelo. A manoeuvring and managing
individual, entirely unscrupulous in his choice of means, condescending to flattery and lies,
he strove to stand as patron between the Pope and subordinate craftsmen. Michelangelo had come
to Rome under San Gallo's influence, and Bramante had just succeeded in winning the commission
to rebuild S. Peter's over his rival's head. It was important for him to break up San Gallo's
party, among whom the sincere and uncompromising Michelangelo threatened to be very formidable.
The jealousy which he felt for the man was envenomed by a fear lest he should speak the truth
about his own dishonesty. To discredit Michelangelo with the Pope, and, if possible, to drive
him out of Rome, was therefore Bramante's interest: more particularly as his own nephew, Raffaello
da Urbino, had now made up his mind to join him there. We shall see that he succeeded in expelling
both San Gallo and Buonarroti during the course of 1506, and that in their absence he reigned,
together with Raffaello, almost alone in the art-circles of the Eternal City.

I see no reason, therefore, to discredit the story told by Condivi and Vasari regarding the
Pope's growing want of interest in his tomb. Michelangelo himself, writing from Rome in 1542,
thirty-six years after these events, says that "all the dissensions between Pope Julius and
me arose from the envy of Bramante and Raffaello da Urbino, and this was the cause of my not
finishing the tomb in his lifetime. They wanted to ruin me. Raffaello indeed had good reason;
for all he had of art he owed to me." But, while we are justified in attributing much to Bramante's
intrigues, it must be remembered that the Pope at this time was absorbed in his plans for conquering
Bologna. Overwhelmed with business and anxious about money, he could not have had much leisure
to converse with sculptors.

Michelangelo was still in Rome at the end of January. On the 31st of that month he wrote to
his father, complaining that the marbles did not arrive quickly enough, and that he had to
keep Julius in good humour with promises. At the same time he begged Lodovico to pack up all
his drawings, and to send them, well secured against bad weather, by the hand of a carrier.
It is obvious that he had no thoughts of leaving Rome, and that the Pope was still eager about
the monument. Early in the spring he assisted at the discovery of the Laocoon. Francesco, the
son of Giuliano da San Gallo, describes how Michelangelo was almost always at his father's
house; and coming there one day, he went, at the architect's invitation, down to the ruins
of the Palace of Titus. "We set off, all three together; I on my father's shoulders. When we
descended into the place where the statue lay, my father exclaimed at once, 'That is the Laocoon,
of which Pliny speaks.' The opening was enlarged, so that it could be taken out; and after
we had sufficiently admired it, we went home to breakfast." Julius bought the marble for 500
crowns, and had it placed in the Belvedere of the Vatican. Scholars praised it in Latin lines
of greater or lesser merit, Sadoleto writing even a fine poem; and Michelangelo is said, but
without trustworthy authority, to have assisted in its restoration.

This is the last glimpse we have of Michelangelo before his flight from Rome. Under what circumstances
he suddenly departed may be related in the words of a letter addressed by him to Giuliano da
San Gallo in Rome upon the 2nd of May 1506, after his return to Florence.

"Giuliano,--Your letter informs me that the Pope was angry at my departure, as also that his
Holiness is inclined to proceed with the works agreed upon between us, and that I may return
and not be anxious about anything.

"About my leaving Rome, it is a fact that on Holy Saturday I heard the Pope, in conversation
with a jeweller at table and with the Master of Ceremonies, say that he did not mean to spend
a farthing more on stones, small or great. This caused me no little astonishment. However,
before I left his presence, I asked for part of the money needed to carry on the work. His
Holiness told me to return on Monday. I did so, and on Tuesday, and on Wednesday, and on Thursday,
as the Pope saw. At last, on Friday morning, I was sent away, or plainly turned out of doors.
The man who did this said he knew me, but that such were his orders. I, who had heard the Pope's
words on Saturday, and now perceived their result in deeds, was utterly cast down. This was
not, however, quite the only reason of my departure; there was something else, which I do not
wish to communicate; enough that it made me think that, if I stayed in Rome, that city would
be my tomb before it was the Pope's. And this was the cause of my sudden departure.

"Now you write to me at the Pope's instance. So I beg you to read him this letter, and inform
his Holiness that I am even more than ever disposed to carry out the work."

Further details may be added from subsequent letters of Michelangelo. Writing in January 1524
to his friend Giovanni Francesco Fattucci, he says: "When I had finished paying for the transport
of these marbles, and all the money was spent, I furnished the house I had upon the Piazza
di S. Pietro with beds and utensils at my own expense, trusting to the commission of the tomb,
and sent for workmen from Florence, who are still alive, and paid them in advance out of my
own purse. Meanwhile Pope Julius changed his mind about the tomb, and would not have it made.
Not knowing this, I applied to him for money, and was expelled from the chamber. Enraged at
such an insult, I left Rome on the moment. The things with which my house was stocked went
to the dogs. The marbles I had brought to Rome lay till the date of Leo's creation on the Piazza,
and both lots were injured and pillaged."

Again, a letter of October 1542, addressed to some prelate, contains further particulars. We
learn he was so short of money that he had to borrow about 200 ducats from his friend Baldassare
Balducci at the bank of Jacopo Gallo. The episode at the Vatican and the flight to Poggibonsi
are related thus:--

"To continue my history of the tomb of Julius: I say that when he changed his mind about building
it in his lifetime, some ship-loads of marble came to the Ripa, which I had ordered a short
while before from Carrara; and as I could not get money from the Pope to pay the freightage,
I had to borrow 150 or 200 ducats from Baldassare Balducci, that is, from the bank of Jacopo
Gallo. At the same time workmen came from Florence, some of whom are still alive; and I furnished
the house which Julius gave me behind S. Caterina with beds and other furniture for the men,
and what was wanted for the work of the tomb. All this being done without money, I was greatly
embarrassed. Accordingly, I urged the Pope with all my power to go forward with the business,
and he had me turned away by a groom one morning when I came to speak upon the matter. A Lucchese
bishop, seeing this, said to the groom: 'Do you not know who that man is?' The groom replied
to me: 'Excuse me, gentleman; I have orders to do this.' I went home, and wrote as follows
to the Pope: 'Most blessed Father, I have been turned out of the palace to-day by your orders;
wherefore I give you notice that from this time forward, if you want me, you must look for
me elsewhere than at Rome.' I sent this letter to Messer Agostino, the steward, to give it
to the Pope. Then I sent for Cosimo, a carpenter, who lived with me and looked after household
matters, and a stone-heaver, who is still alive, and said to them: 'Go for a Jew, and sell
everything in the house, and come to Florence.' I went, took the post, and travelled towards
Florence. The Pope, when he had read my letter, sent five horsemen after me, who reached me
at Poggibonsi about three hours after nightfall, and gave me a letter from the Pope to this
effect: 'When you have seen these present, come back at once to Rome, under penalty of our
displeasure.' The horsemen were anxious I should answer, in order to prove that they had overtaken
me. I replied then to the Pope, that if he would perform the conditions he was under with regard
to me, I would return; but otherwise he must not expect to have me again. Later on, while I
was at Florence, Julius sent three briefs to the Signory. At last the latter sent for me and
said: 'We do not want to go to war with Pope Julius because of you. You must return; and if
you do so, we will write you letters of such authority that, should he do you harm, he will
be doing it to this Signory.' Accordingly I took the letters, and went back to the Pope, and
what followed would be long to tell."

These passages from Michelangelo's correspondence confirm Condivi's narrative of the flight
from Rome, showing that he had gathered his information from the sculptor's lips. Condivi differs
only in making Michelangelo send a verbal message, and not a written letter, to the Pope. "Enraged
by this repulse, he exclaimed to the groom: 'Tell the Pope that if henceforth he wants me,
he must look for me elsewhere.'"

It is worth observing that only the first of these letters, written shortly after the event,
and intended for the Pope's ear, contains a hint of Michelangelo's dread of personal violence
if he remained in Rome. His words seem to point at poison or the dagger. Cellini's autobiography
yields sufficient proof that such fears were not unjustified by practical experience; and Bramante,
though he preferred to work by treachery of tongue, may have commanded the services of assassins,
uomini arditi e facinorosi, as they were somewhat euphemistically called. At any rate, it is
clear that Michelangelo's precipitate departure and vehement refusal to return were occasioned
by more pungent motives than the Pope's frigidity. This has to be noticed, because we learn
from several incidents of the same kind in the master's life that he was constitutionally subject
to sudden fancies and fears of imminent danger to his person from an enemy. He had already
quitted Bologna in haste from dread of assassination or maltreatment at the hands of native
sculptors.

VI

The negotiations which passed between the Pope and the Signory of Florence about what may be
called the extradition of Michelangelo form a curious episode in his biography, throwing into
powerful relief the importance he had already acquired among the princes of Italy. I propose
to leave these for the commencement of my next chapter, and to conclude the present with an
account of his occupations during the summer months at Florence.

Signor Gotti says that he passed three months away from Julius in his native city. Considering
that he arrived before the end of April, and reached Bologna at the end of November 1506, we
have the right to estimate this residence at about seven months. A letter written to him from
Rome on the 4th of August shows that he had not then left Florence upon any intermediate journey
of importance. Therefore there is every reason to suppose that he enjoyed a period of half
a year of leisure, which he devoted to finishing his Cartoon for the Battle of Pisa.

It had been commenced, as we have seen, in a workshop at the Spedale dei Tintori. When he went
to Bologna in the autumn, it was left, exposed presumably to public view, in the Sala del Papa
at S. Maria Novella. It had therefore been completed; but it does not appear that Michelangelo
had commenced his fresco in the Sala del Gran Consiglio.

Lionardo began to paint his Battle of the Standard in March 1505. The work advanced rapidly;
but the method he adopted, which consisted in applying oil colours to a fat composition laid
thickly on the wall, caused the ruin of his picture. He is said to have wished to reproduce
the encaustic process of the ancients, and lighted fires to harden the surface of the fresco.
This melted the wax in the lower portions of the paste, and made the colours run. At any rate,
no traces of the painting now remain in the Sala del Gran Consiglio, the walls of which are
covered by the mechanical and frigid brush-work of Vasari. It has even been suggested that
Vasari knew more about the disappearance of his predecessor's masterpiece than he has chosen
to relate. Lionardo's Cartoon has also disappeared, and we know the Battle of Anghiari only
by Edelinck's engraving from a drawing of Rubens, and by some doubtful sketches.

The same fate was in store for Michelangelo's Cartoon. All that remains to us of that great
work is the chiaroscuro transcript at Holkham, a sketch for the whole composition in the Albertina
Gallery at Vienna, which differs in some important details from the Holkham group, several
interesting pen-and-chalk drawings by Michelangelo's own hand, also in the Albertina Collection,
and a line-engraving by Marcantonio Raimondi, commonly known as "Les Grimpeurs."

We do not know at what exact time Michelangelo finished his Cartoon in 1506. He left it, says
Condivi, in the Sala del Papa. Afterwards it must have been transferred to the Sala del Gran
Consiglio; for Albertini, in his Memoriale, or Guide-Book to Florence, printed in 1510, speaks
of both "the works of Lionardo da Vinci and the designs of Michelangelo" as then existing in
that hall. Vasari asserts that it was taken to the house of the Medici, and placed in the great
upper hall, but gives no date. This may have taken place on the return of the princely family
in 1512. Cellini confirms this view, since he declares that when he was copying the Cartoon,
which could hardly have happened before 1513, the Battle of Pisa was at the Palace of the Medici,
and the Battle of Anghiari at the Sala del Papa. The way in which it finally disappeared is
involved in some obscurity, owing to Vasari's spite and mendacity. In the first, or 1550, edition
of the "Lives of the Painters," he wrote as follows: "Having become a regular object of study
to artists, the Cartoon was carried to the house of the Medici, into the great upper hall;
and this was the reason that it came with too little safeguard into the hands of those said
artists: inasmuch as, during the illness of the Duke Giuliano, when no one attended to such
matters, it was torn in pieces by them and scattered abroad, so that fragments may be found
in many places, as is proved by those existing now in the house of Uberto Strozzi, a gentleman
of Mantua, who holds them in great respect." When Vasari published his second edition, in 1568,
he repeated this story of the destruction of the Cartoon, but with a very significant alteration.
Instead of saying "it was torn in pieces by them" he now printed "it was torn in pieces, as
hath been told elsewhere." Now Bandinelli, Vasari's mortal enemy, and the scapegoat for all
the sins of his generation among artists, died in 1559, and Vasari felt that he might safely
defame his memory. Accordingly he introduced a Life of Bandinelli into the second edition of
his work, containing the following passage: "Baccio was in the habit of frequenting the place
where the Cartoon stood more than any other artists, and had in his possession a false key;
what follows happened at the time when Piero Soderini was deposed in 1512, and the Medici returned.
Well, then, while the palace was in tumult and confusion through this revolution, Baccio went
alone, and tore the Cartoon into a thousand fragments. Why he did so was not known; but some
surmised that he wanted to keep certain pieces of it by him for his own use; some, that he
wished to deprive young men of its advantages in study; some, that he was moved by affection
for Lionardo da Vinci, who suffered much in reputation by this design; some, perhaps with sharper
intuition, believed that the hatred he bore to Michelangelo inspired him to commit the act.
The loss of the Cartoon to the city was no slight one, and Baccio deserved the blame he got,
for everybody called him envious and spiteful." This second version stands in glaring contradiction
to the first, both as regards the date and the place where the Cartoon was destroyed. It does
not, I think, deserve credence, for Cellini, who was a boy of twelve in 1512, could hardly
have drawn from it before that date; and if Bandinelli was so notorious for his malignant vandalism
as Vasari asserts, it is most improbable that Cellini, while speaking of the Cartoon in connection
with Torrigiano, should not have taken the opportunity to cast a stone at the man whom he detested
more than any one in Florence. Moreover, if Bandinelli had wanted to destroy the Cartoon for
any of the reasons above assigned to him, he would not have dispersed fragments to be treasured
up with reverence. At the close of this tedious summary I ought to add that Condivi expressly
states: "I do not know by what ill-fortune it subsequently came to ruin." He adds, however,
that many of the pieces were found about in various places, and that all of them were preserved
like sacred objects. We have, then, every reason to believe that the story told in Vasari's
first edition is the literal truth. Copyists and engravers used their opportunity, when the
palace of the Medici was thrown into disorder by the severe illness of the Duke of Nemours,
to take away portions of Michelangelo's Cartoon for their own use in 1516.

Of the Cartoon and its great reputation, Cellini gives us this account: "Michelangelo portrayed
a number of foot-soldiers, who, the season being summer, had gone to bathe in the Arno. He
drew them at the very moment the alarm is sounded, and the men all naked run to arms; so splendid
is their action, that nothing survives of ancient or of modern art, which touches the same
lofty point of excellence; and, as I have already said, the design of the great Lionardo was
itself most admirably beautiful. These two Cartoons stood, one in the palace of the Medici,
the other in the hall of the Pope. So long as they remained intact, they were the school of
the world. Though the divine Michelangelo in later life finished that great chapel of Pope
Julius (the Sistine), he never rose halfway to the same pitch of power; his genius never afterwards
attained to the force of those first studies." Allowing for some exaggeration due to enthusiasm
for things enjoyed in early youth, this is a very remarkable statement. Cellini knew the frescoes
of the Sistine well, yet he maintains that they were inferior in power and beauty to the Battle
of Pisa. It seems hardly credible; but, if we believe it, the legend of Michelangelo's being
unable to execute his own designs for the vault of that chapel falls to the ground.

VII

The great Cartoon has become less even than a memory, and so, perhaps, we ought to leave it
in the limbo of things inchoate and unaccomplished. But this it was not, most emphatically.
Decidedly it had its day, lived and sowed seeds for good or evil through its period of brief
existence: so many painters of the grand style took their note from it; it did so much to introduce
the last phase of Italian art, the phase of efflorescence, the phase deplored by critics steeped
in mediaeval feeling. To recapture something of its potency from the description of contemporaries
is therefore our plain duty, and for this we must have recourse to Vasari's text. He says:
"Michelangelo filled his canvas with nude men, who, bathing at the time of summer heat in Arno,
were suddenly called to arms, the enemy assailing them. The soldiers swarmed up from the river
to resume their clothes; and here you could behold depicted by the master's godlike hands one
hurrying to clasp his limbs in steel and give assistance to his comrades, another buckling
on the cuirass, and many seizing this or that weapon, with cavalry in squadrons giving the
attack. Among the multitude of figures, there was an old man, who wore upon his head an ivy
wreath for shade. Seated on the ground, in act to draw his hose up, he was hampered by the
wetness of his legs; and while he heard the clamour of the soldiers, the cries, the rumbling
of the drums, he pulled with all his might; all the muscles and sinews of his body were seen
in strain; and what was more, the contortion of his mouth showed what agony of haste he suffered,
and how his whole frame laboured to the toe-tips. Then there were drummers and men with flying
garments, who ran stark naked toward the fray. Strange postures too: this fellow upright, that
man kneeling, or bent down, or on the point of rising; all in the air foreshortened with full
conquest over every difficulty. In addition, you discovered groups of figures sketched in various
methods, some outlined with charcoal, some etched with strokes, some shadowed with the stump,
some relieved in white-lead; the master having sought to prove his empire over all materials
of draughtsmanship. The craftsmen of design remained therewith astonished and dumbfounded,
recognising the furthest reaches of their art revealed to them by this unrivalled masterpiece.
Those who examined the forms I have described, painters who inspected and compared them with
works hardly less divine, affirm that never in the history of human achievement was any product
of a man's brain seen like to them in mere supremacy. And certainly we have the right to believe
this; for when the Cartoon was finished, and carried to the Hall of the Pope, amid the acclamation
of all artists, and to the exceeding fame of Michelangelo, the students who made drawings from
it, as happened with foreigners and natives through many years in Florence, became men of mark
in several branches. This is obvious, for Aristotele da San Gallo worked there, as did Ridolfo
Ghirlandajo, Raffaello Sanzio da Urbino, Francesco Granaccio, Baccio Bandinelli, and Alonso
Berughetta, the Spaniard; they were followed by Andrea del Sarto, Franciabigio, Jacopo Sansovino,
Rosso, Maturino, Lorenzetto, Tribolo, then a boy, Jacopo da Pontormo, and Pierin del Vaga:
all of them first-rate masters of the Florentine school."

It does not appear from this that Vasari pretended to have seen the great Cartoon. Born in
1512, he could not indeed have done so; but there breathes through his description a gust of
enthusiasm, an afflatus of concurrent witnesses to its surpassing grandeur. Some of the details
raise a suspicion that Vasari had before his eyes the transcript en grisaille which he says
was made by Aristotele da San Gallo, and also the engraving by Marcantonio Raimondi. The prominence
given to the ivy-crowned old soldier troubled by his hose confirms the accuracy of the Holkham
picture and the Albertina drawing. But none of these partial transcripts left to us convey
that sense of multitude, space, and varied action which Vasari's words impress on the imagination.
The fullest, that at Holkham, contains nineteen figures, and these are schematically arranged
in three planes, with outlying subjects in foreground and background. Reduced in scale, and
treated with the arid touch of a feeble craftsman, the linear composition suggests no large
aesthetic charm. It is simply a bas-relief of carefully selected attitudes and vigorously studied
movements --nineteen men, more or less unclothed, put together with the scientific view of
illustrating possibilities and conquering difficulties in postures of the adult male body.
The extraordinary effect, as of something superhuman, produced by the Cartoon upon contemporaries,
and preserved for us in Cellini's and Vasari's narratives, must then have been due to unexampled
qualities of strength in conception, draughtsmanship, and execution. It stung to the quick
an age of artists who had abandoned the representation of religious sentiment and poetical
feeling for technical triumphs and masterly solutions of mechanical problems in the treatment
of the nude figure. We all know how much more than this Michelangelo had in him to give, and
how unjust it would be to judge a masterpiece from his hand by the miserable relics now at
our disposal. Still I cannot refrain from thinking that the Cartoon for the Battle of Pisa,
taken up by him as a field for the display of his ability, must, by its very brilliancy, have
accelerated the ruin of Italian art. Cellini, we saw, placed it above the frescoes of the Sistine.
In force, veracity, and realism it may possibly have been superior to those sublime productions.
Everything we know about the growth of Michelangelo's genius leads us to suppose that he departed
gradually but surely from the path of Nature. He came, however, to use what he had learned
from Nature as means for the expression of soul-stimulating thoughts. This, the finest feature
of his genius, no artist of the age was capable of adequately comprehending. Accordingly, they
agreed in extolling a cartoon which displayed his faculty of dealing with un bel corpo ignudo
as the climax of his powers.

As might be expected, there was no landscape in the Cartoon. Michelangelo handled his subject
wholly from the point of view of sculpture. A broken bank and a retreating platform, a few
rocks in the distance and a few waved lines in the foreground, showed that the naked men were
by a river. Michelangelo's unrelenting contempt for the many-formed and many-coloured stage
on which we live and move--his steady determination to treat men and women as nudities posed
in the void, with just enough of solid substance beneath their feet to make their attitudes
intelligible--is a point which must over and over again be insisted on. In the psychology of
the master, regarded from any side one likes to take, this constitutes his leading characteristic.
It gives the key, not only to his talent as an artist, but also to his temperament as a man.

Marcantonio seems to have felt and resented the aridity of composition, the isolation of plastic
form, the tyranny of anatomical science, which even the most sympathetic of us feel in Michelangelo.
This master's engraving of three lovely nudes, the most charming memento preserved to us from
the Cartoon, introduces a landscape of grove and farm, field and distant hill, lending suavity
to the muscular male body and restoring it to its proper place among the sinuous lines and
broken curves of Nature. That the landscape was adapted from a copper-plate of Lucas van Leyden
signifies nothing. It serves the soothing purpose which sensitive nerves, irritated by Michelangelo's
aloofness from all else but thought and naked flesh and posture, gratefully acknowledge.

While Michelangelo was finishing his Cartoon, Lionardo da Vinci was painting his fresco. Circumstances
may have brought the two chiefs of Italian art frequently together in the streets of Florence.
There exists an anecdote of one encounter, which, though it rests upon the credit of an anonymous
writer, and does not reflect a pleasing light upon the hero of this biography, cannot be neglected.
"Lionardo," writes our authority, "was a man of fair presence, well-proportioned, gracefully
endowed, and of fine aspect. He wore a tunic of rose-colour, falling to his knees; for at that
time it was the fashion to carry garments of some length; and down to the middle of his breast
there flowed a beard beautifully curled and well arranged. Walking with a friend near S. Trinità,
where a company of honest folk were gathered, and talk was going on about some passage from
Dante, they called to Lionardo, and begged him to explain its meaning. It so happened that
just at this moment Michelangelo went by, and, being hailed by one of them, Lionardo answered:
'There goes Michelangelo; he will interpret the verses you require.' Whereupon Michelangelo,
who thought he spoke in this way to make fun of him, replied in anger: 'Explain them yourself,
you who made the model of a horse to cast in bronze, and could not cast it, and to your shame
left it in the lurch.' With these words, he turned his back to the group, and went his way.
Lionardo remained standing there, red in the face for the reproach cast at him; and Michelangelo,
not satisfied, but wanting to sting him to the quick, added: 'And those Milanese capons believed
in your ability to do it!'"

We can only take anecdotes for what they are worth, and that may perhaps be considered slight
when they are anonymous. This anecdote, however, in the original Florentine diction, although
it betrays a partiality for Lionardo, bears the aspect of truth to fact. Moreover, even Michelangelo's
admirers are bound to acknowledge that he had a rasping tongue, and was not incapable of showing
his bad temper by rudeness. From the period of his boyhood, when Torrigiano smashed his nose,
down to the last years of his life in Rome, when he abused his nephew Lionardo and hurt the
feelings of his best and oldest friends, he discovered signs of a highly nervous and fretful
temperament. It must be admitted that the dominant qualities of nobility and generosity in
his nature were alloyed by suspicion bordering on littleness, and by petulant yieldings to
the irritation of the moment which are incompatible with the calm of an Olympian genius.

CHAPTER V

I

While Michelangelo was living and working at Florence, Bramante had full opportunity to poison
the Pope's mind in Rome. It is commonly believed, on the faith of a sentence in Condivi, that
Bramante, when he dissuaded Julius from building the tomb in his own lifetime, suggested the
painting of the Sistine Chapel. We are told that he proposed Michelangelo for this work, hoping
his genius would be hampered by a task for which he was not fitted. There are many improbabilities
in this story; not the least being our certainty that the fame of the Cartoon must have reached
Bramante before Michelangelo's arrival in the first months of 1505. But the Cartoon did not
prove that Buonarroti was a practical wall-painter or colourist; and we have reason to believe
that Julius had himself conceived the notion of intrusting the Sistine to his sculptor. A good
friend of Michelangelo, Pietro Rosselli, wrote this letter on the subject, May 6, 1506: "Last
Saturday evening, when the Pope was at supper, I showed him some designs which Bramante and
I had to test; so, after supper, when I had displayed them, he called for Bramante, and said:
'San Gallo is going to Florence to-morrow, and will bring Michelangelo back with him.' Bramante
answered: 'Holy Father, he will not be able to do anything of the kind. I have conversed much
with Michelangelo, and he has often told me that he would not undertake the chapel, which you
wanted to put upon him; and that, you notwithstanding, he meant only to apply himself to sculpture,
and would have nothing to do with painting.' To this he added: 'Holy Father, I do not think
he has the courage to attempt the work, because he has small experience in painting figures,
and these will be raised high above the line of vision, and in foreshortening (i.e., because
of the vault). That is something different from painting on the ground.' The Pope replied:
'If he does not come, he will do me wrong; and so I think that he is sure to return.' Upon
this I up and gave the man a sound rating in the Pope's presence, and spoke as I believe you
would have spoken for me; and for the time he was struck dumb, as though he felt that he had
made a mistake in talking as he did. I proceeded as follows: 'Holy Father, that man never exchanged
a word with Michelangelo, and if what he has just said is the truth, I beg you to cut my head
off, for he never spoke to Michelangelo; also I feel sure that he is certain to return, if
your Holiness requires it.'"

This altercation throws doubt on the statement that Bramante originally suggested Michelangelo
as painter of the Sistine. He could hardly have turned round against his own recommendation;
and, moreover, it is likely that he would have wished to keep so great a work in the hands
of his own set, Raffaello, Peruzzi, Sodoma, and others.

Meanwhile, Michelangelo's friends in Rome wrote, encouraging him to come back. They clearly
thought that he was hazarding both profit and honour if he stayed away. But Michelangelo, whether
the constitutional timidity of which I have spoken, or other reasons damped his courage, felt
that he could not trust to the Pope's mercies. What effect San Gallo may have had upon him,
supposing this architect arrived in Florence at the middle of May, can only be conjectured.
The fact remains that he continued stubborn for a time.

Condivi gives a graphic account of the transaction which ensued. "During the months he stayed
in Florence three papal briefs were sent to the Signory, full of threats, commanding that he
should be sent back by fair means or by force. Piero Soderini, who was Gonfalonier for life
at that time, had sent him against his own inclination to Rome when Julius first asked for
him. Accordingly, when the first of these briefs arrived, he did not compel Michelangelo to
go, trusting that the Pope's anger would calm down. But when the second and the third were
sent, he called Michelangelo and said: 'You have tried a bout with the Pope on which the King
of France would not have ventured; therefore you must not go on letting yourself be prayed
for. We do not wish to go to war on your account with him, and put our state in peril. Make
your mind up to return.' Michelangelo, seeing himself brought to this pass, and still fearing
the anger of the Pope, bethought him of taking refuge in the East. The Sultan indeed besought
him with most liberal promises, through the means of certain Franciscan friars, to come and
construct a bridge from Constantinople to Pera, and to execute other great works. When the
Gonfalonier got wind of this intention he sent for Michelangelo and used these arguments to
dissuade him: 'It were better to choose death with the Pope than to keep in life by going to
the Turk. Nevertheless, there is no fear of such an ending; for the Pope is well disposed,
and sends for you because he loves you, not to do you harm. If you are afraid, the Signory
will send you with the title of ambassador; forasmuch as public personages are never treated
with violence, since this would be done to those who send them.'"

We only possess one brief from Julius to the Signory of Florence. It is dated Rome, July 8,
1506, and contains this passage: "Michelangelo the sculptor, who left us without reason, and
in mere caprice, is afraid, as we are informed, of returning, though we for our part are not
angry with him, knowing the humours of such men of genius. In order, then, that he may lay
aside all anxiety, we rely on your loyalty to convince him in our name, that if he returns
to us, he shall be uninjured and unhurt, retaining our apostolic favour in the same measure
as he formerly enjoyed it." The date, July 8, is important in this episode of Michelangelo's
life. Soderini sent back an answer to the Pope's brief within a few days, affirming that "Michelangelo
the sculptor is so terrified that, notwithstanding the promise of his Holiness, it will be
necessary for the Cardinal of Pavia to write a letter signed by his own hand to us, guaranteeing
his safety and immunity. We have done, and are doing, all we can to make him go back; assuring
your Lordship that, unless he is gently handled, he will quit Florence, as he has already twice
wanted to do." This letter is followed by another addressed to the Cardinal of Volterra under
date July 28. Soderini repeats that Michelangelo will not budge, because he has as yet received
no definite safe-conduct. It appears that in the course of August the negotiations had advanced
to a point at which Michelangelo was willing to return. On the last day of the month the Signory
drafted a letter to the Cardinal of Pavia in which they say that "Michelangelo Buonarroti,
sculptor, citizen of Florence, and greatly loved by us, will exhibit these letters present,
having at last been persuaded to repose confidence in his Holiness." They add that he is coming
in good spirits and with good-will. Something may have happened to renew his terror, for this
despatch was not delivered, and nothing more is heard of the transaction till toward the close
of November. It is probable, however, that Soderini suddenly discovered how little Michelangelo
was likely to be wanted; Julius, on the 27th of August, having started on what appeared to
be his mad campaign against Perugia and Bologna. On the 21st of November following the Cardinal
of Pavia sent an autograph letter from Bologna to the Signory, urgently requesting that they
would despatch Michelangelo immediately to that town, inasmuch as the Pope was impatient for
his arrival, and wanted to employ him on important works. Six days later, November 27, Soderini
writes two letters, one to the Cardinal of Pavia and one to the Cardinal of Volterra, which
finally conclude the whole business. The epistle to Volterra begins thus: "The bearer of these
present will be Michelangelo, the sculptor, whom we send to please and satisfy his Holiness.
We certify that he is an excellent young man, and in his own art without peer in Italy, perhaps
also in the universe. We cannot recommend him more emphatically. His nature is such, that with
good words and kindness, if these are given him, he will do everything; one has to show him
love and treat him kindly, and he will perform things which will make the whole world wonder."
The letter to Pavia is written more familiarly, reading like a private introduction. In both
of them Soderini enhances the service he is rendering the Pope by alluding to the magnificent
design for the Battle of Pisa which Michelangelo must leave unfinished.

Before describing his reception at Bologna, it may be well to quote two sonnets here which
throw an interesting light upon Michelangelo's personal feeling for Julius and his sense of
the corruption of the Roman Curia. The first may well have been written during this residence
at Florence; and the autograph of the second has these curious words added at the foot of the
page: "Vostro Michelagniolo, in Turchia." Rome itself, the Sacred City, has become a land of
infidels, and Michelangelo, whose thoughts are turned to the Levant, implies that he would
find himself no worse off with the Sultan than the Pope.

  My Lord! If ever ancient saw spake sooth,
    Hear this which saith: Who can doth never will.
    Lo, thou hast lent thine ear to fables still.
    Rewarding those who hate the name of truth.
  I am thy drudge, and have been from my youth--
    Thine, like the rays which the sun's circle fill;
    Yet of my dear time's waste thou think'st no ill:
    The more I toil, the less I move thy ruth.
  Once 'twas my hope to raise me by thy height;
    But 'tis the balance and the powerful sword
    Of Justice, not false Echo, that we need.
  Heaven, as it seems, plants virtue in despite
    Here on the earth, if this be our reward--
    To seek for fruit on trees too dry to breed.

  Here helms and swords are made of chalices:
    The blood of Christ is sold so much the quart:
    His cross and thorns are spears and shields; and short
    Must be the time ere even His patience cease.
  Nay, let Him come no more to raise the fees.
    Of this foul sacrilege beyond, report:
    For Rome still flays and sells Him at the court,
    Where paths are closed, to virtue's fair increase,
  Now were fit time for me to scrape a treasure,
    Seeing that work and gain are gone; while he
    Who wears the robe, is my Medusa still.
  God welcomes poverty perchance with pleasure:
    But of that better life what hope have we,
    When the blessed banner leads to nought but ill?

While Michelangelo was planning frescoes and venting his bile in sonnets, the fiery Pope had
started on his perilous career of conquest. He called the Cardinals together, and informed
them that he meant to free the cities of Perugia and Bologna from their tyrants. God, he said,
would protect His Church; he could rely on the support of France and Florence. Other Popes
had stirred up wars and used the services of generals; he meant to take the field in person.
Louis XII. is reported to have jeered among his courtiers at the notion of a high-priest riding
to the wars. A few days afterwards, on the 27th of August, the Pope left Rome attended by twenty-four
cardinals and 500 men-at-arms. He had previously secured the neutrality of Venice and a promise
of troops from the French court. When Julius reached Orvieto, he was met by Gianpaolo Baglioni,
the bloody and licentious despot of Perugia. Notwithstanding Baglioni knew that Julius was
coming to assert his supremacy, and notwithstanding the Pope knew that this might drive to
desperation a man so violent and stained with crime as Baglioni, they rode together to Perugia,
where Gianpaolo paid homage and supplied his haughty guest with soldiers. The rashness of this
act of Julius sent a thrill of admiration throughout Italy, stirring that sense of terribilità
which fascinated the imagination of the Renaissance. Machiavelli, commenting upon the action
of the Baglioni, remarks that the event proved how difficult it is for a man to be perfectly
and scientifically wicked. Gianpaolo, he says, murdered his relations, oppressed his subjects,
and boasted of being a father by his sister; yet, when he got his worst enemy into his clutches,
he had not the spirit to be magnificently criminal, and murder or imprison Julius. From Perugia
the Pope crossed the Apennines, and found himself at Imola upon the 20th of October. There
he received news that the French governor of Milan, at the order of his king, was about to
send him a reinforcement of 600 lances and 3000 foot-soldiers. This announcement, while it
cheered the heart of Julius, struck terror into the Bentivogli, masters of Bologna. They left
their city and took refuge in Milan, while the people of Bologna sent envoys to the Pope's
camp, surrendering their town and themselves to his apostolic clemency. On the 11th of November,
S. Martin's day, Giuliano della Rovere made his triumphal entry into Bologna, having restored
two wealthy provinces to the states of the Church by a stroke of sheer audacity, unparalleled
in the history of any previous pontiff. Ten days afterwards we find him again renewing negotiations
with the Signory for the extradition of Michelangelo.

II

"Arriving then one morning at Bologna, and going to hear Mass at S. Petronio, there met him
the Pope's grooms of the stable, who immediately recognised him, and brought him into the presence
of his Holiness, then at table in the Palace of the Sixteen. When the Pope beheld him, his
face clouded with anger, and he cried: 'It was your duty to come to seek us, and you have waited
till we came to seek you; meaning thereby that his Holiness having travelled to Bologna, which
is much nearer to Florence than Rome, he had come to find him out. Michelangelo knelt, and
prayed for pardon in a loud voice, pleading in his excuse that he had not erred through forwardness,
but through great distress of mind, having been unable to endure the expulsion he received.
The Pope remained holding his head low and answering nothing, evidently much agitated; when
a certain prelate, sent by Cardinal Soderini to put in a good word for Michelangelo, came forward
and said: 'Your Holiness might overlook his fault; he did wrong through ignorance: these painters,
outside their art, are all like this.' Thereupon the Pope answered in a fury: 'It is you, not
I, who are insulting him. It is you, not he, who are the ignoramus and the rascal. Get hence
out of my sight, and bad luck to you!' When the fellow did not move, he was cast forth by the
servants, as Michelangelo used to relate, with good round kicks and thumpings. So the Pope,
having spent the surplus of his bile upon the bishop, took Michelangelo apart and pardoned
him. Not long afterwards he sent for him and said: 'I wish you to make my statue on a large
scale in bronze. I mean to place it on the façade of San Petronio.' When he went to Rome in
course of time, he left 1000 ducats at the bank of Messer Antonmaria da Lignano for this purpose.
But before he did so Michelangelo had made the clay model. Being in some doubt how to manage
the left hand, after making the Pope give the benediction with the right, he asked Julius,
who had come to see the statue, if he would like it to hold a book. 'What book?' replied he:
'a sword! I know nothing about letters, not I.' Jesting then about the right hand, which was
vehement in action, he said with a smile to Michelangelo: 'That statue of yours, is it blessing
or cursing?' To which the sculptor replied: 'Holy Father, it is threatening this people of
Bologna if they are not prudent.'"

Michelangelo's letter to Fattucci confirms Condivi's narrative. "When Pope Julius went to Bologna
the first time, I was forced to go there with a rope round my neck to beg his pardon. He ordered
me to make his portrait in bronze, sitting, about seven cubits (14 feet) in height. When he
asked what it would cost, I answered that I thought I could cast it for 1000 ducats; but that
this was not my trade, and that I did not wish to undertake it. He answered: 'Go to work; you
shall cast it over and over again till it succeeds; and I will give you enough to satisfy your
wishes.' To put it briefly, I cast the statue twice; and at the end of two years, at Bologna,
I found that I had four and a half ducats left. I never received anything more for this job;
and all the moneys I paid out during the said two years were the 1000 ducats with which I promised
to cast it. These were disbursed to me in instalments by Messer Antonio Maria da Legnano, a
Bolognese."

The statue must have been more than thrice life-size, if it rose fourteen feet in a sitting
posture. Michelangelo worked at the model in a hall called the Stanza del Pavaglione behind
the Cathedral. Three experienced workmen were sent, at his request, from Florence, and he began
at once upon the arduous labour. His domestic correspondence, which at this period becomes
more copious and interesting, contains a good deal of information concerning his residence
at Bologna. His mode of life, as usual, was miserable and penurious in the extreme. This man,
about whom popes and cardinals and gonfaloniers had been corresponding, now hired a single
room with one bed in it, where, as we have seen, he slept together with his three assistants.
There can be no doubt that such eccentric habits prevented Michelangelo from inspiring his
subordinates with due respect. The want of control over servants and workmen, which is a noticeable
feature of his private life, may in part be attributed to this cause. And now, at Bologna,
he soon got into trouble with the three craftsmen he had engaged to help him. They were Lapo
d'Antonio di Lapo, a sculptor at the Opera del Duomo; Lodovico del Buono, surnamed Lotti, a
metal-caster and founder of cannon; and Pietro Urbano, a craftsman who continued long in his
service. Lapo boasted that he was executing the statue in partnership with Michelangelo and
upon equal terms, which did not seem incredible considering their association in a single bedroom.
Beside this, he intrigued and cheated in money matters. The master felt that he must get rid
of him, and send the fellow back to Florence. Lapo, not choosing to go alone, lest the truth
of the affair should be apparent, persuaded Lodovico to join him; and when they reached home,
both began to calumniate their master. Michelangelo, knowing that they were likely to do so,
wrote to his brother Buonarroto on the 1st of February 1507: "I inform you further how on Friday
morning I sent away Lapo and Lodovico, who were in my service. Lapo, because he is good for
nothing and a rogue, and could not serve me. Lodovico is better, and I should have been willing
to keep him another two months, but Lapo, in order to prevent blame falling on himself alone,
worked upon the other so that both went away together. I write you this, not that I regard
them, for they are not worth three farthings, the pair of them, but because if they come to
talk to Lodovico (Buonarroti) he must not be surprised at what they say. Tell him by no means
to lend them his ears; and if you want to be informed about them, go to Messer Angelo, the
herald of the Signory; for I have written the whole story to him, and he will, out of his kindly
feeling, tell you just what happened."

In spite of these precautions, Lapo seems to have gained the ear of Michelangelo's father,
who wrote a scolding letter in his usual puzzle-headed way. Michelangelo replied in a tone
of real and ironical humility, which is exceedingly characteristic: "Most revered father, I
have received a letter from you to-day, from which I learn that you have been informed by Lapo
and Lodovico. I am glad that you should rebuke me, because I deserve to be rebuked as a ne'er-do-well
and sinner as much as any one, or perhaps more. But you must know that I have not been guilty
in the affair for which you take me to task now, neither as regards them nor any one else,
except it be in doing more than was my duty." After this exordium he proceeds to give an elaborate
explanation of his dealings with Lapo, and the man's roguery.

The correspondence with Buonarroto turns to a considerable extent upon a sword-hilt which Michelangelo
designed for the Florentine, Pietro Aldobrandini. It was the custom then for gentlemen to carry
swords and daggers with hilt and scabbard wonderfully wrought by first-rate artists. Some of
these, still extant, are among the most exquisite specimens of sixteenth-century craft. This
little affair gave Michelangelo considerable trouble. First of all, the man who had to make
the blade was long about it. From the day when the Pope came to Bologna, he had more custom
than all the smiths in the city were used in ordinary times to deal with. Then, when the weapon
reached Florence, it turned out to be too short. Michelangelo affirmed that he had ordered
it exactly to the measure sent, adding that Aldobrandini was "probably not born to wear a dagger
at his belt." He bade his brother present it to Filippo Strozzi, as a compliment from the Buonarroti
family; but the matter was bungled. Probably Buonarroto tried to get some valuable equivalent;
for Michelangelo writes to say that he is sorry "he behaved so scurvily toward Filippo in so
trifling an affair."

Nothing at all transpires in these letters regarding the company kept by Michelangelo at Bologna.
The few stories related by tradition which refer to this period are not much to the sculptor's
credit for courtesy. The painter Francia, for instance, came to see the statue, and made the
commonplace remark that he thought it very well cast and of excellent bronze. Michelangelo
took this as an insult to his design, and replied: "I owe the same thanks to Pope Julius who
supplied the metal, as you do to the colourmen who sell you paints." Then, turning to some
gentlemen present there, he added that Francia was "a blockhead." Francia had a son remarkable
for youthful beauty. When Michelangelo first saw him he asked whose son he was, and, on being
informed, uttered this caustic compliment: "Your father makes handsomer living figures than
he paints them." On some other occasion, a stupid Bolognese gentleman asked whether he thought
his statue or a pair of oxen were the bigger. Michelangelo replied: "That is according to the
oxen. If Bolognese, oh! then with a doubt ours of Florence are smaller." Possibly Albrecht
Dürer may have met him in the artistic circles of Bologna, since he came from Venice on a visit
during these years; but nothing is known about their intercourse.

III

Julius left Bologna on the 22nd of February 1507. Michelangelo remained working diligently
at his model. In less than three months it was nearly ready to be cast. Accordingly, the sculptor,
who had no practical knowledge of bronze-founding, sent to Florence for a man distinguished
in that craft, Maestro dal Ponte of Milan. During the last three years he had been engaged
as Master of the Ordnance under the Republic. His leave of absence was signed upon the 15th
of May 1507.

Meanwhile the people of Bologna were already planning revolution. The Bentivogli retained a
firm hereditary hold on their affections, and the government of priests is never popular, especially
among the nobles of a state. Michelangelo writes to his brother Giovan Simone (May 2) describing
the bands of exiles who hovered round the city and kept its burghers in alarm: "The folk are
stifling in their coats of mail; for during four days past the whole county is under arms,
in great confusion and peril, especially the party of the Church." The Papal Legate, Francesco
Alidosi, Cardinal of Pavia, took such prompt measures that the attacking troops were driven
back. He also executed some of the citizens who had intrigued with the exiled family. The summer
was exceptionally hot, and plague hung about; all articles of food were dear and bad. Michelangelo
felt miserable, and fretted to be free; but the statue kept him hard at work.

When the time drew nigh for the great operation, he wrote in touching terms to Buonarroto:
"Tell Lodovico (their father) that in the middle of next month I hope to cast my figure without
fail. Therefore, if he wishes to offer prayers or aught else for its good success, let him
do so betimes, and say that I beg this of him." Nearly the whole of June elapsed, and the business
still dragged on. At last, upon the 1st of July, he advised his brother thus: "We have cast
my figure, and it has come out so badly that I verily believe I shall have to do it all over
again. I reserve details, for I have other things to think of. Enough that it has gone wrong.
Still I thank God, because I take everything for the best." From the next letter we learn that
only the lower half of the statue, up to the girdle, was properly cast. The metal for the rest
remained in the furnace, probably in the state of what Cellini called a cake. The furnace had
to be pulled down and rebuilt, so as to cast the upper half. Michelangelo adds that he does
not know whether Master Bernardino mismanaged the matter from ignorance or bad luck. "I had
such faith in him that I thought he could have cast the statue without fire. Nevertheless,
there is no denying that he is an able craftsman, and that he worked with good-will. Well,
he has failed, to my loss and also to his own, seeing he gets so much blame that he dares not
lift his head up in Bologna." The second casting must have taken place about the 8th of July;
for on the 10th Michelangelo writes that it is done, but the clay is too hot for the result
to be reported, and Bernardino left yesterday. When the statue was uncovered, he was able to
reassure his brother: "My affair might have turned out much better, and also much worse. At
all events, the whole is there, so far as I can see; for it is not yet quite disengaged. I
shall want, I think, some months to work it up with file and hammer, because it has come out
rough. Well, well, there is much to thank God for; as I said, it might have been worse." On
making further discoveries, he finds that the cast is far less bad than he expected; but the
labour of cleaning it with polishing tools proved longer and more irksome than he expected:
"I am exceedingly anxious to get away home, for here I pass my life in huge discomfort and
with extreme fatigue. I work night and day, do nothing else; and the labour I am forced to
undergo is such, that if I had to begin the whole thing over again, I do not think I could
survive it. Indeed, the undertaking has been one of enormous difficulty; and if it had been
in the hand of another man, we should have fared but ill with it. However, I believe that the
prayers of some one have sustained and kept me in health, because all Bologna thought I should
never bring it to a proper end." We can see that Michelangelo was not unpleased with the result;
and the statue must have been finished soon after the New Year. However, he could not leave
Bologna. On the 18th of February 1508 he writes to Buonarroto that he is kicking his heels,
having received orders from the Pope to stay until the bronze was placed. Three days later--that
is, upon the 21st of February--the Pope's portrait was hoisted to its pedestal above the great
central door of S. Petronio.

It remained there rather less than three years. When the Papal Legate fled from Bologna in
1511, and the party of the Bentivogli gained the upper hand, they threw the mighty mass of
sculptured bronze, which had cost its maker so much trouble, to the ground. That happened on
the 30th of December. The Bentivogli sent it to the Duke Alfonso d'Este of Ferrara, who was
a famous engineer and gunsmith. He kept the head intact, but cast a huge cannon out of part
of the material, which took the name of La Giulia. What became of the head is unknown. It is
said to have weighed 600 pounds.

So perished another of Michelangelo's masterpieces; and all we know for certain about the statue
is that Julius was seated, in full pontificals, with the triple tiara on his head, raising
the right hand to bless, and holding the keys of S. Peter in the left.

Michelangelo reached Florence early in March. On the 18th of that month he began again to occupy
his house at Borgo Pinti, taking it this time on hire from the Operai del Duomo. We may suppose,
therefore, that he intended to recommence work on the Twelve Apostles. A new project seems
also to have been started by his friend Soderini--that of making him erect a colossal statue
of Hercules subduing Cacus opposite the David. The Gonfalonier was in correspondence with the
Marquis of Carrara on the 10th of May about a block of marble for this giant; but Michelangelo
at that time had returned to Rome, and of the Cacus we shall hear more hereafter.

IV

When Julius received news that his statue had been duly cast and set up in its place above
the great door of S. Petronio, he began to be anxious to have Michelangelo once more near his
person. The date at which the sculptor left Florence again for Rome is fixed approximately
by the fact that Lodovico Buonarroti emancipated his son from parental control upon the 13th
of March 1508. According to Florentine law, Michelangelo was not of age, nor master over his
property and person, until this deed had been executed.

In the often-quoted letter to Fattucci he says: "The Pope was still unwilling that I should
complete the tomb, and ordered me to paint the vault of the Sistine. We agreed for 3000 ducats.
The first design I made for this work had twelve apostles in the lunettes, the remainder being
a certain space filled in with ornamental details, according to the usual manner. After I had
begun, it seemed to me that this would turn out rather meanly; and I told the Pope that the
Apostles alone would yield a poor effect, in my opinion. He asked me why. I answered, 'Because
they too were poor.' Then he gave me commission to do what I liked best, and promised to satisfy
my claims for the work, and told me to paint down the pictured histories upon the lower row."

There is little doubt that Michelangelo disliked beginning this new work, and that he would
have greatly preferred to continue the sepulchral monument, for which he had made such vast
and costly preparations. He did not feel certain how he should succeed in fresco on a large
scale, not having had any practice in that style of painting since he was a prentice under
Ghirlandajo. It is true that the Cartoon for the Battle of Pisa had been a splendid success;
still this, as we have seen, was not coloured, but executed in various methods of outline and
chiaroscuro. Later on, while seriously engaged upon the Sistine, he complains to his father:
"I am still in great distress of mind, because it is now a year since I had a farthing from
the Pope; and I do not ask, because my work is not going forward in a way that seems to me
to deserve it. That comes from its difficulty, and also from this not being my trade. And so
I waste my time without results. God help me."

We may therefore believe Condivi when he asserts that "Michelangelo, who had not yet practised
colouring, and knew that the painting of a vault is very difficult, endeavoured by all means
to get himself excused, putting Raffaello forward as the proper man, and pleading that this
was not his trade, and that he should not succeed." Condivi states in the same chapter that
Julius had been prompted to intrust him with the Sistine by Bramante, who was jealous of his
great abilities, and hoped he might fail conspicuously when he left the field of sculpture.
I have given my reasons above for doubting the accuracy of this tradition; and what we have
just read of Michelangelo's own hesitation confirms the statement made by Bramante in the Pope's
presence, as recorded by Rosselli. In fact, although we may assume the truth of Bramante's
hostility, it is difficult to form an exact conception of the intrigues he carried on against
Buonarroti.

Julius would not listen to any arguments. Accordingly, Michelangelo made up his mind to obey
the patron whom he nicknamed his Medusa. Bramante was commissioned to erect the scaffolding,
which he did so clumsily, with beams suspended from the vault by huge cables, that Michelangelo
asked how the holes in the roof would be stopped up when his painting was finished. The Pope
allowed him to take down Bramante's machinery, and to raise a scaffold after his own design.
The rope alone which had been used, and now was wasted, enabled a poor carpenter to dower his
daughter. Michelangelo built his own scaffold free from the walls, inventing a method which
was afterwards adopted by all architects for vault-building. Perhaps he remembered the elaborate
drawing he once made of Ghirlandajo's assistants at work upon the ladders and wooden platforms
at S. Maria Novella.

Knowing that he should need helpers in so great an undertaking, and also mistrusting his own
ability to work in fresco, he now engaged several excellent Florentine painters. Among these,
says Vasari, were his friends Francesco Granacci and Giuliano Bugiardini, Bastiano da San Gallo
surnamed Aristotele, Angelo di Donnino, Jacopo di Sandro, and Jacopo surnamed l'Indaco. Vasari
is probably accurate in his statement here; for we shall see that Michelangelo, in his Ricordi,
makes mention of five assistants, two of whom are proved by other documents to have been Granacci
and Indaco. We also possess two letters from Granacci which show that Bugiardini, San Gallo,
Angelo di Donnino, and Jacopo l'Indaco were engaged in July. The second of Granacci's letters
refers to certain disputes and hagglings with the artists. This may have brought Michelangelo
to Florence, for he was there upon the 11th of August 1508, as appears from the following deed
of renunciation: "In the year of our Lord 1508, on the 11th day of August, Michelangelo, son
of Lodovico di Lionardo di Buonarrota, repudiated the inheritance of his uncle Francesco by
an instrument drawn up by the hand of Ser Giovanni di Guasparre da Montevarchi, notary of Florence,
on the 27th of July 1508." When the assistants arrived at Rome is not certain. It must, however,
have been after the end of July. The extracts from Michelangelo's notebooks show that he had
already sketched an agreement as to wages several weeks before. "I record how on this day,
the 10th of May 1508, I, Michelangelo, sculptor, have received from the Holiness of our Lord
Pope Julius II. 500 ducats of the Camera, the which were paid me by Messer Carlino, chamberlain,
and Messer Carlo degli Albizzi, on account of the painting of the vault of the Sistine Chapel,
on which I begin to work to-day, under the conditions and contracts set forth in a document
written by his Most Reverend Lordship of Pavia, and signed by my hand.

"For the painter-assistants who are to come from Florence, who will be five in number, twenty
gold ducats of the Camera apiece, on this condition; that is to say, that when they are here
and are working in harmony with me, the twenty ducats shall be reckoned to each man's salary;
the said salary to begin upon the day they leave Florence. And if they do not agree with me,
half of the said money shall be paid them for their travelling expenses, and for their time."

On the strength of this Ricordo, it has been assumed that Michelangelo actually began to paint
the Sistine on the 10th of May 1508. That would have been physically and literally impossible.
He was still at Florence, agreeing to rent his house in Borgo Pinti, upon the 18th of March.
Therefore he had no idea of going to Rome at that time. When he arrived there, negotiations
went on, as we have seen, between him and Pope Julius. One plan for the decoration of the roof
was abandoned, and another on a grander scale had to be designed. To produce working Cartoons
for that immense scheme in less than two months would have been beyond the capacities of any
human brain and hands. But there are many indications that the vault was not prepared for painting,
and the materials for fresco not accumulated, till a much later date. For instance, we possess
a series of receipts by Piero Rosselli, acknowledging several disbursements for the plastering
of the roof between May 11 and July 27. We learn from one of these that Granacci was in Rome
before June 3; and Michelangelo writes for fine blue colours to a certain Fra Jacopo Gesuato
at Florence upon the 13th of May. All is clearly in the air as yet, and on the point of preparation.
Michelangelo's phrase, "on which I begin work to-day," will have to be interpreted, therefore,
in the widest sense, as implying that he was engaging assistants, getting the architectural
foundation ready, and procuring a stock of necessary articles. The whole summer and autumn
must have been spent in taking measurements and expanding the elaborate design to the proper
scale of working drawings; and if Michelangelo had toiled alone without his Florentine helpers,
it would have been impossible for him to have got through with these preliminary labours in
so short a space of time.

Michelangelo's method in preparing his Cartoons seems to have been the following. He first
made a small-scale sketch of the composition, sometimes including a large variety of figures.
Then he went to the living models, and studied portions of the whole design in careful transcripts
from Nature, using black and red chalk, pen, and sometimes bistre. Among the most admirable
of his drawings left to us are several which were clearly executed with a view to one or other
of these great Cartoons. Finally, returning to the first composition, he repeated that, or
so much of it as could be transferred to a single sheet, on the exact scale of the intended
fresco. These enlarged drawings were applied to the wet surface of the plaster, and their outlines
pricked in with dots to guide the painter in his brush-work. When we reflect upon the extent
of the Sistine vault (it is estimated at more than 10,000 square feet of surface), and the
difficulties presented by its curves, lunettes, spandrels, and pendentives; when we remember
that this enormous space is alive with 343 figures in every conceivable attitude, some of them
twelve feet in height, those seated as prophets and sibyls measuring nearly eighteen feet when
upright, all animated with extraordinary vigour, presenting types of the utmost variety and
vivid beauty, imagination quails before the intellectual energy which could first conceive
a scheme so complex, and then carry it out with mathematical precision in its minutest details.

The date on which Michelangelo actually began to paint the fresco is not certain. Supposing
he worked hard all the summer, he might have done so when his Florentine assistants arrived
in August; and, assuming that the letter to his father above quoted (Lettere, x.) bears a right
date, he must have been in full swing before the end of January 1509. In that letter he mentions
that Jacopo, probably l'Indaco, "the painter whom I brought from Florence, returned a few days
ago; and as he complained about me here in Rome, it is likely that he will do so there. Turn
a deaf ear to him; he is a thousandfold in the wrong, and I could say much about his bad behaviour
toward me." Vasari informs us that these assistants proved of no use; whereupon, he destroyed
all they had begun to do, refused to see them, locked himself up in the chapel, and determined
to complete the work in solitude. It seems certain that the painters were sent back to Florence.
Michelangelo had already provided for the possibility of their not being able to co-operate
with him; but what the cause of their failure was we can only conjecture. Trained in the methods
of the old Florentine school of fresco-painting, incapable of entering into the spirit of a
style so supereminently noble and so astoundingly original as Michelangelo's, it is probable
that they spoiled his designs in their attempts to colour them. Harford pithily remarks: "As
none of the suitors of Penelope could bend the bow of Ulysses, so one hand alone was capable
of wielding the pencil of Buonarroti." Still it must not be imagined that Michelangelo ground
his own colours, prepared his daily measure of wet plaster, and executed the whole series of
frescoes with his own hand. Condivi and Vasari imply, indeed, that this was the case; but,
beside the physical impossibility, the fact remains that certain portions are obviously executed
by inferior masters. Vasari's anecdotes, moreover, contradict his own assertion regarding Michelangelo's
singlehanded labour. He speaks about the caution which the master exercised to guard himself
against any treason of his workmen in the chapel. Nevertheless, far the larger part, including
all the most important figures, and especially the nudes, belongs to Michelangelo.

These troubles with his assistants illustrate a point upon which I shall have to offer some
considerations at a future time. I allude to Michelangelo's inaptitude for forming a school
of intelligent fellow-workers, for fashioning inferior natures into at least a sympathy with
his aims and methods, and finally for living long on good terms with hired subordinates. All
those qualities which the facile and genial Raffaello possessed in such abundance, and which
made it possible for that young favourite of heaven and fortune to fill Rome with so much work
of mixed merit, were wanting to the stern, exacting, and sensitive Buonarroti.

But the assistants were not the only hindrance to Michelangelo at the outset. Condivi says
that "he had hardly begun painting, and had finished the picture of the Deluge, when the work
began to throw out mould to such an extent that the figures could hardly be seen through it.
Michelangelo thought that this excuse might be sufficient to get him relieved of the whole
job. So he went to the Pope and said: 'I already told your Holiness that painting is not my
trade; what I have done is spoiled; if you do not believe it, send to see.' The Pope sent San
Gallo, who, after inspecting the fresco, pronounced that the lime-basis had been put on too
wet, and that water oozing out produced this mouldy surface. He told Michelangelo what the
cause was, and bade him proceed with the work. So the excuse helped him nothing." About the
fresco of the Deluge Vasari relates that, having begun to paint this compartment first, he
noticed that the figures were too crowded, and consequently changed his scale in all the other
portions of the ceiling. This is a plausible explanation of what is striking--namely, that
the story of the Deluge is quite differently planned from the other episodes upon the vaulting.
Yet I think it must be rejected, because it implies a total change in all the working Cartoons,
as well as a remarkable want of foresight.

Condivi continues: "While he was painting, Pope Julius used oftentimes to go and see the work,
climbing by a ladder, while Michelangelo gave him a hand to help him on to the platform. His
nature being eager and impatient of delay, he decided to have the roof uncovered, although
Michelangelo had not given the last touches, and had only completed the first half--that is,
from the door to the middle of the vault." Michelangelo's letters show that the first part
of his work was executed in October. He writes thus to his brother Buonarroto: "I am remaining
here as usual, and shall have finished my painting by the end of the week after next--that
is, the portion of it which I began; and when it is uncovered, I expect to be paid, and shall
also try to get a month's leave to visit Florence."

V

The uncovering took place upon November 1, 1509. All Rome flocked to the chapel, feeling that
something stupendous was to be expected after the long months of solitude and seclusion during
which the silent master had been working. Nor were they disappointed. The effect produced by
only half of the enormous scheme was overwhelming. As Vasari says, "This chapel lighted up
a lamp for our art which casts abroad lustre enough to illuminate the World, drowned, for so
many centuries in darkness." Painters saw at a glance that the genius which had revolutionised
sculpture was now destined to introduce a new style and spirit into their art. This was the
case even with Raffaello, who, in the frescoes he executed at S. Maria della Pace, showed his
immediate willingness to learn from Michelangelo, and his determination to compete with him.
Condivi and Vasari are agreed upon this point, and Michelangelo himself, in a moment of hasty
indignation, asserted many years afterwards that what Raffaello knew of art was derived from
him. That is, of course, an over-statement; for, beside his own exquisite originality, Raffaello
formed a composite style successively upon Perugino, Fra Bartolommeo, and Lionardo. He was
capable not merely of imitating, but of absorbing and assimilating to his lucid genius the
excellent qualities of all in whom he recognised superior talent. At the same time, Michelangelo's
influence was undeniable, and we cannot ignore the testimony of those who conversed with both
great artists--of Julius himself, for instance, when he said to Sebastian del Piombo: "Look
at the work of Raffaello, who, after seeing the masterpieces of Michelangelo, immediately abandoned
Perugino's manner, and did his utmost to approach that of Buonarroti."

Condivi's assertion that the part uncovered in November 1509 was the first half of the whole
vault, beginning from the door and ending in the middle, misled Vasari, and Vasari misled subsequent
biographers. We now know for certain that what Michelangelo meant by "the portion I began"
was the whole central space of the ceiling--that is to say, the nine compositions from Genesis,
with their accompanying genii and architectural surroundings. That is rendered clear by a statement
in Albertini's Roman Handbook, to the effect that the "upper portion of the whole vaulted roof"
had been uncovered when he saw it in 1509. Having established this error in Condivi's narrative,
what he proceeds to relate may obtain some credence. "Raffaello, when he beheld the new and
marvellous style of Michelangelo's work, being extraordinarily apt at imitation, sought, by
Bramante's means, to obtain a commission for the rest." Had Michelangelo ended at a line drawn
halfway across the breadth of the vault, leaving the Prophets and Sibyls, the lunettes and
pendentives, all finished so far, it would have been a piece of monstrous impudence even in
Bramante, and an impossible discourtesy in gentle Raffaello, to have begged for leave to carry
on a scheme so marvellously planned. But the history of the Creation, Fall, and Deluge, when
first exposed, looked like a work complete in itself. Michelangelo, who was notoriously secretive,
had almost certainly not explained his whole design to painters of Bramante's following; and
it is also improbable that he had as yet prepared his working Cartoons for the lower and larger
portion of the vault. Accordingly, there remained a large vacant space to cover between the
older frescoes by Signorelli, Perugino, Botticelli, and other painters, round the walls below
the windows, and that new miracle suspended in the air. There was no flagrant impropriety in
Bramante's thinking that his nephew might be allowed to carry the work downward from that altitude.
The suggestion may have been that the Sistine Chapel should become a Museum of Italian art,
where all painters of eminence could deposit proofs of their ability, until each square foot
of wall was covered with competing masterpieces. But when Michelangelo heard of Bramante's
intrigues, he was greatly disturbed in spirit. Having begun his task unwillingly, he now felt
an equal or greater unwillingness to leave the stupendous conception of his brain unfinished.
Against all expectation of himself and others, he had achieved a decisive victory, and was
placed at one stroke, Condivi says, "above the reach of envy." His hand had found its cunning
for fresco as for marble. Why should he be interrupted in the full swing of triumphant energy?
"Accordingly, he sought an audience with the Pope, and openly laid bare all the persecutions
he had suffered from Bramante, and discovered the numerous misdoings of the man." It was on
this occasion, according to Condivi, that Michelangelo exposed Bramante's scamped work and
vandalism at S. Peter's. Julius, who was perhaps the only man in Rome acquainted with his sculptor's
scheme for the Sistine vault, brushed the cobwebs of these petty intrigues aside, and left
the execution of the whole to Michelangelo.

There is something ignoble in the task of recording rivalries and jealousies between artists
and men of letters. Genius, however, like all things that are merely ours and mortal, shuffles
along the path of life, half flying on the wings of inspiration, half hobbling on the feet
of interest the crutches of commissions. Michelangelo, although he made the David and the Sistine,
had also to make money. He was entangled with shrewd men of business, and crafty spendthrifts,
ambitious intriguers, folk who used undoubted talents, each in its kind excellent and pure,
for baser purposes of gain or getting on. The art-life of Rome seethed with such blood-poison;
and it would be sentimental to neglect what entered so deeply and so painfully into the daily
experience of our hero. Raffaello, kneaded of softer and more facile clay than Michelangelo,
throve in this environment, and was somehow able--so it seems--to turn its venom to sweet uses.
I like to think of the two peers, moving like stars on widely separated orbits, with radically
diverse temperaments, proclivities, and habits, through the turbid atmosphere enveloping but
not obscuring their lucidity. Each, in his own way, as it seems to me, contrived to keep himself
unspotted by the world; and if they did not understand one another and make friends, this was
due to the different conceptions they were framed to take of life the one being the exact antipodes
to the other.

VI

Postponing descriptive or aesthetic criticism of the Sistine frescoes, I shall proceed with
the narration of their gradual completion. We have few documents to guide us through the period
of time which elapsed between the first uncovering of Michelangelo's work on the roof of the
Sistine (November 1, 1509) and its ultimate accomplishment (October 1512). His domestic correspondence
is abundant, and will be used in its proper place; but nothing transpires from those pages
of affection, anger, and financial negotiation to throw light upon the working of the master's
mind while he was busied in creating the sibyls and prophets, the episodes and idyls, which
carried his great Bible of the Fate of Man downwards through the vaulting to a point at which
the Last Judgment had to be presented as a crowning climax. For, the anxious student of his
mind and life-work, nothing is more desolating than the impassive silence he maintains about
his doings as an artist. He might have told us all we want to know, and never shall know here
about them. But while he revealed his personal temperament and his passions with singular frankness,
he locked up the secret of his art, and said nothing.

Eventually we must endeavour to grasp Michelangelo's work in the Sistine as a whole, although
it was carried out at distant epochs of his life. For this reason I have thrown these sentences
forward, in order to embrace a wide span of his artistic energy (from May 10, 1508, to perhaps
December 1541). There is, to my mind, a unity of conception between the history depicted on
the vault, the prophets and forecomers on the pendentives, the types selected for the spandrels,
and the final spectacle of the day of doom. Living, as he needs must do, under the category
of time, Michelangelo was unable to execute his stupendous picture-book of human destiny in
one sustained manner. Years passed over him of thwarted endeavour and distracted energies--years
of quarrying and sculpturing, of engineering and obeying the vagaries of successive Popes.
Therefore, when he came at last to paint the Last Judgment, he was a worn man, exhausted in
services of many divers sorts. And, what is most perplexing to the reconstructive critic, nothing
in his correspondence remains to indicate the stages of his labour. The letters tell plenty
about domestic anxieties, annoyances in his poor craftsman's household, purchases of farms,
indignant remonstrances with stupid brethren; but we find in them, as I have said, no clue
to guide us through that mental labyrinth in which the supreme artist was continually walking,
and at the end of which he left to us the Sistine as it now is.

VII

The old reckoning of the time consumed by Michelangelo in painting the roof of the Sistine,
and the traditions concerning his mode of work there, are clearly fabulous. Condivi says: "He
finished the whole in twenty months, without having any assistance whatsoever, not even of
a man to grind his colours." From a letter of September 7, 1510, we learn that the scaffolding
was going to be put up again, and that he was preparing to work upon the lower portion of the
vaulting. Nearly two years elapse before we hear of it again. He writes to Buonarroto on the
24th of July 1512: "I am suffering greater hardships than ever man endured, ill, and with overwhelming
labour; still I put up with all in order to reach the desired end." Another letter on the 21st
of August shows that he expects to complete his work at the end of September; and at last,
in October, he writes to his father: "I have finished the chapel I was painting. The Pope is
very well satisfied." On the calculation that he began the first part on May 10, 1508, and
finished the whole in October 1512, four years and a half were employed upon the work. A considerable
part of this time was of course taken up with the preparation of Cartoons; and the nature of
fresco-painting rendered the winter months not always fit for active labour. The climate of
Rome is not so mild but that wet plaster might often freeze and crack during December, January,
and February. Besides, with all his superhuman energy, Michelangelo could not have painted
straight on daily without rest or stop. It seems, too, that the master was often in need of
money, and that he made two journeys to the Pope to beg for supplies. In the letter to Fattucci
he says: "When the vault was nearly finished, the Pope was again at Bologna; whereupon, I went
twice to get the necessary funds, and obtained nothing, and lost all that time until I came
back to Rome. When I reached Rome, I began to make Cartoons--that is, for the ends and sides
of the said chapel, hoping to get money at last and to complete the work. I never could extract
a farthing; and when I complained one day to Messer Bernardo da Bibbiena and to Atalante, representing
that I could not stop longer in Rome, and that I should be forced to go away with God's grace,
Messer Bernardo told Atalante he must bear this in mind, for that he wished me to have money,
whatever happened." When we consider, then, the magnitude of the undertaking, the arduous nature
of the preparatory studies, and the waste of time in journeys and through other hindrances,
four and a half years are not too long a period for a man working so much alone as Michelangelo
was wont to do.

We have reason to believe that, after all, the frescoes of the Sistine were not finished in
their details. "It is true," continues Condivi, "that I have heard him say he was not suffered
to complete the work according to his wish. The Pope, in his impatience, asked him one day
when he would be ready with the Chapel, and he answered: 'When I shall be able.' To which his
Holiness replied in a rage: 'You want to make me hurl you from that scaffold!' Michelangelo
heard and remembered, muttering: 'That you shall not do to me.' So he went straightway, and
had the scaffolding taken down. The frescoes were exposed to view on All Saints' day, to the
great satisfaction of the Pope, who went that day to service there, while all Rome flocked
together to admire them. What Michelangelo felt forced to leave undone was the retouching of
certain parts with ultramarine upon dry ground, and also some gilding, to give the whole a
richer effect. Giulio, when his heat cooled down, wanted Michelangelo to make these last additions;
but he, considering the trouble it would be to build up all that scaffolding afresh, observed
that what was missing mattered little. 'You ought at least to touch it up with gold,' replied
the Pope; and Michelangelo, with that familiarity he used toward his Holiness, said carelessly:
'I have not observed that men wore gold.' The Pope rejoined: 'It will look poor.' Buonarroti
added: 'Those who are painted there were poor men.' So the matter turned into pleasantry, and
the frescoes have remained in their present state." Condivi goes on to state that Michelangelo
received 3000 ducats for all his expenses, and that he spent as much as twenty or twenty-five
ducats on colours alone. Upon the difficult question of the moneys earned by the great artist
in his life-work, I shall have to speak hereafter, though I doubt whether any really satisfactory
account can now be given of them.

VIII

Michelangelo's letters to his family in Florence throw a light at once vivid and painful over
the circumstances of his life during these years of sustained creative energy. He was uncomfortable
in his bachelor's home, and always in difficulties with his servants. "I am living here in
discontent, not thoroughly well, and undergoing great fatigue, without money, and with no one
to look after me." Again, when one of his brothers proposed to visit him in Rome, he writes:
"I hear that Gismondo means to come hither on his affairs. Tell him not to count on me for
anything; not because I do not love him as a brother, but because I am not in the position
to assist him. I am bound to care for myself first, and I cannot provide myself with necessaries.
I live here in great distress and the utmost bodily fatigue, have no friends, and seek none.
I have not even time enough to eat what I require. Therefore let no additional burdens be put
upon me, for I could not bear another ounce." In the autumn of 1509 he corresponded with his
father about the severe illness of an assistant workman whom he kept, and also about a boy
he wanted sent from Florence. "I should be glad if you could hear of some lad at Florence,
the son of good parents and poor, used to hardships, who would be willing to come and live
with me here, to do the work of the house, buy what I want, and go around on messages; in his
leisure time he could learn. Should such a boy be found, please let me know; because there
are only rogues here, and I am in great need of some one." All through his life, Michelangelo
adopted the plan of keeping a young fellow to act as general servant, and at the same time
to help in art-work. Three of these servants are interwoven with the chief events of his later
years, Pietro Urbano, Antonio Mini, and Francesco d'Amadore, called Urbino, the last of whom
became his faithful and attached friend till death parted them. Women about the house he could
not bear. Of the serving-maids at Rome he says: "They are all strumpets and swine." Well, it
seems that Lodovico found a boy, and sent him off to Rome. What followed is related in the
next letter. "As regards the boy you sent me, that rascal of a muleteer cheated me out of a
ducat for his journey. He swore that the bargain had been made for two broad golden ducats,
whereas all the lads who come here with the muleteers pay only ten carlins. I was more angry
at this than if I had lost twenty-five ducats, because I saw that his father had resolved to
send him on mule-back like a gentleman. Oh, I had never such good luck, not I! Then both the
father and the lad promised that he would do everything, attend to the mule, and sleep upon
the ground, if it was wanted. And now I am obliged to look after him. As if I needed more worries
than the one I have had ever since I arrived here! My apprentice, whom I left in Rome, has
been ill from the day on which I returned until now. It is true that he is getting better;
but he lay for about a month in peril of his life, despaired of by the doctors, and I never
went to bed. There are other annoyances of my own; and now I have the nuisance of this lad,
who says that he does not want to waste time, that he wants to study, and so on. At Florence
he said he would be satisfied with two or three hours a day. Now the whole day is not enough
for him, but he must needs be drawing all the night. It is all the fault of what his father
tells him. If I complained, he would say that I did not want him to learn. I really require
some one to take care of the house; and if the boy had no mind for this sort of work, they
ought not to have put me to expense. But they are good-for-nothing, and are working toward
a certain end of their own. Enough, I beg you to relieve me of the boy; he has bored me so
that I cannot bear it any longer. The muleteer has been so well paid that he can very well
take him back to Florence. Besides, he is a friend of the father. Tell the father to send for
him home. I shall not pay another farthing. I have no money. I will have patience till he sends;
and if he does not send, I will turn the boy out of doors. I did so already on the second day
of his arrival, and other times also, and the father does not believe it.

"P.S.--If you talk to the father of the lad, put the matter to him nicely: as that he is a
good boy, but too refined, and not fit for my service, and say that he had better send for
him home."

The repentant postscript is eminently characteristic of Michelangelo. He used to write in haste,
apparently just as the thoughts came. Afterwards he read his letter over, and softened its
contents down, if he did not, as sometimes happened, feel that his meaning required enforcement;
in that case he added a stinging tail to the epigram. How little he could manage the people
in his employ is clear from the last notice we possess about the unlucky lad from Florence.
"I wrote about the boy, to say that his father ought to send for him, and that I would not
disburse more money. This I now confirm. The driver is paid to take him back. At Florence he
will do well enough, learning his trade and dwelling with his parents. Here he is not worth
a farthing, and makes me toil like a beast of burden; and my other apprentice has not left
his bed. It is true that I have not got him in the house; for when I was so tired out that
I could not bear it, I sent him to the room of a brother of his. I have no money."

These household difficulties were a trifle, however, compared with the annoyances caused by
the stupidity of his father and the greediness of his brothers. While living like a poor man
in Rome, he kept continually thinking of their welfare. The letters of this period are full
of references to the purchase of land, the transmission of cash when it was to be had, and
the establishment of Buonarroto in a draper's business. They, on their part, were never satisfied,
and repaid his kindness with ingratitude. The following letter to Giovan Simone shows how terrible
Michelangelo could be when he detected baseness in a brother:--

"Giovan Simone,--It is said that when one does good to a good man, he makes him become better,
but that a bad man becomes worse. It is now many years that I have been endeavouring with words
and deeds of kindness to bring you to live honestly and in peace with your father and the rest
of us. You grow continually worse. I do not say that you are a scoundrel; but you are of such
sort that you have ceased to give satisfaction to me or anybody. I could read you a long lesson
on your ways of living; but they would be idle words, like all the rest that I have wasted.
To cut the matter short, I will tell you as a fact beyond all question that you have nothing
in the world: what you spend and your house-room, I give you, and have given you these many
years, for the love of God, believing you to be my brother like the rest. Now, I am sure that
you are not my brother, else you would not threaten my father. Nay, you are a beast; and as
a beast I mean to treat you. Know that he who sees his father threatened or roughly handled
is bound to risk his own life in this cause. Let that suffice. I repeat that you have nothing
in the world; and if I hear the least thing about your ways of going on, I will come to Florence
by the post, and show you how far wrong you are, and teach you to waste your substance, and
set fire to houses and farms you have not earned. Indeed you are not where you think yourself
to be. If I come, I will open your eyes to what will make you weep hot tears, and recognise
on what false grounds you base your arrogance.

"I have something else to say to you, which I have said before. If you will endeavour to live
rightly, and to honour and revere your father, I am willing to help you like the rest, and
will put it shortly within your power to open a good shop. If you act otherwise, I shall come
and settle your affairs in such a way that you will recognise what you are better than you
ever did, and will know what you have to call your own, and will have it shown to you in every
place where you may go. No more. What I lack in words I will supply with deeds.

"Michelangelo in Rome.

"I cannot refrain from adding a couple of lines. It is as follows. I have gone these twelve
years past drudging about through Italy, borne every shame, suffered every hardship, worn my
body out in every toil, put my life to a thousand hazards, and all with the sole purpose of
helping the fortunes of my family. Now that I have begun to raise it up a little, you only,
you alone, choose to destroy and bring to ruin in one hour what it has cost me so many years
and such labour to build up. By Christ's body this shall not be; for I am the man to put to
the rout ten thousand of your sort, whenever it be needed. Be wise in time, then, and do not
try the patience of one who has other things to vex him."

Even Buonarroto, who was the best of the brothers and dearest to his heart, hurt him by his
graspingness and want of truth. He had been staying at Rome on a visit, and when he returned
to Florence it appears that he bragged about his wealth, as if the sums expended on the Buonarroti
farms were not part of Michelangelo's earnings. The consequence was that he received a stinging
rebuke from his elder brother. "The said Michele told me you mentioned to him having spent
about sixty ducats at Settignano. I remember your saying here too at table that you had disbursed
a large sum out of your own pocket. I pretended not to understand, and did not feel the least
surprise, because I know you. I should like to hear from your ingratitude out of what money
you gained them. If you had enough sense to know the truth, you would not say: 'I spent so
and so much of my own;' also you would not have come here to push your affairs with me, seeing
how I have always acted toward you in the past, but would have rather said: 'Michelangelo remembers
what he wrote to us, and if he does not now do what he promised, he must be prevented by something
of which we are ignorant,' and then have kept your peace; because it is not well to spur the
horse that runs as fast as he is able, and more than he is able. But you have never known me,
and do not know me. God pardon you; for it is He who granted me the grace to bear what I do
bear and have borne, in order that you might be helped. Well, you will know me when you have
lost me."

Michelangelo's angry moods rapidly cooled down. At the bottom of his heart lay a deep and abiding
love for his family. There is something caressing in the tone with which he replies to grumbling
letters from his father. "Do not vex yourself. God did not make us to abandon us." "If you
want me, I will take the post, and be with you in two days. Men are worth more than money."
His warm affection transpires even more clearly in the two following documents:

"I should like you to be thoroughly convinced that all the labours I have ever undergone have
not been more for myself than for your sake. What I have bought, I bought to be yours so long
as you live. If you had not been here, I should have bought nothing. Therefore, if you wish
to let the house and farm, do so at your pleasure. This income, together with what I shall
give you, will enable you to live like a lord." At a time when Lodovico was much exercised
in his mind and spirits by a lawsuit, his son writes to comfort the old man. "Do not be discomfited,
nor give yourself an ounce of sadness. Remember that losing money is not losing one's life.
I will more than make up to you what you must lose. Yet do not attach too much value to worldly
goods, for they are by nature untrustworthy. Thank God that this trial, if it was bound to
come, came at a time when you have more resources than you had in years past. Look to preserving
your life and health, but let your fortunes go to ruin rather than suffer hardships; for I
would sooner have you alive and poor; if you were dead, I should not care for all the gold
in the world. If those chatterboxes or any one else reprove you, let them talk, for they are
men without intelligence and without affection."

References to public events are singularly scanty in this correspondence. Much as Michelangelo
felt the woes of Italy--and we know he did so by his poems--he talked but little, doing his
work daily like a wise man all through the dust and din stirred up by Julius and the League
of Cambrai. The lights and shadows of Italian experience at that time are intensely dramatic.
We must not altogether forget the vicissitudes of war, plague, and foreign invasion, which
exhausted the country, while its greatest men continued to produce immortal masterpieces. Aldo
Manuzio was quietly printing his complete edition of Plato, and Michelangelo was transferring
the noble figure of a prophet or a sibyl to the plaster of the Sistine, while young Gaston
de Foix was dying at the point of victory upon the bloody shores of the Ronco. Sometimes, however,
the disasters of his country touched Michelangelo so nearly that he had to write or speak about
them. After the battle of Ravenna, on the 11th of April 1512, Raimondo de Cardona and his Spanish
troops brought back the Medici to Florence. On their way, the little town of Prato was sacked
with a barbarity which sent a shudder through the whole peninsula. The Cardinal Giovanni de'
Medici, who entered Florence on the 14th of September, established his nephews as despots in
the city, and intimidated the burghers by what looked likely to be a reign of terror. These
facts account for the uneasy tone of a letter written by Michelangelo to Buonarroto. Prato
had been taken by assault upon the 30th of August, and was now prostrate after those hideous
days of torment, massacre, and outrage indescribable which followed. In these circumstances
Michelangelo advises his family to "escape into a place of safety, abandoning their household
gear and property; for life is far more worth than money." If they are in need of cash, they
may draw upon his credit with the Spedalingo of S. Maria Novella. The constitutional liability
to panic which must be recognised in Michelangelo emerges at the close of the letter. "As to
public events, do not meddle with them either by deed or word. Act as though the plague were
raging. Be the first to fly." The Buonarroti did not take his advice, but remained at Florence,
enduring agonies of terror. It was a time when disaffection toward the Medicean princes exposed
men to risking life and limb. Rumours reached Lodovico that his son had talked imprudently
at Rome. He wrote to inquire what truth there was in the report, and Michelangelo replied:
"With regard to the Medici, I have never spoken a single word against them, except in the way
that everybody talks--as, for instance, about the sack of Prato; for if the stones could have
cried out, I think they would have spoken. There have been many other things said since then,
to which, when I heard them, I have answered: 'If they are really acting in this way, they
are doing wrong;' not that I believed the reports; and God grant they are not true. About a
month ago, some one who makes a show of friendship for me spoke very evilly about their deeds.
I rebuked him, told him that it was not well to talk so, and begged him not to do so again
to me. However, I should like Buonarroto quietly to find out how the rumour arose of my having
calumniated the Medici; for if it is some one who pretends to be my friend, I ought to be upon
my guard."

The Buonarroti family, though well affected toward Savonarola, were connected by many ties
of interest and old association with the Medici, and were not powerful enough to be the mark
of violent political persecution. Nevertheless, a fine was laid upon them by the newly restored
Government. This drew forth the following epistle from Michelangelo:--

"Dearest Father,--Your last informs me how things are going on at Florence, though I already
knew something. We must have patience, commit ourselves to God, and repent of our sins; for
these trials are solely due to them, and more particularly to pride and ingratitude. I never
conversed with a people more ungrateful and puffed up than the Florentines. Therefore, if judgment
comes, it is but right and reasonable. As for the sixty ducats you tell me you are fined, I
think this a scurvy trick, and am exceedingly annoyed. However, we must have patience as long
as it pleases God. I will write and enclose two lines to Giuliano de' Medici. Read them, and
if you like to present them to him, do so; you will see whether they are likely to be of any
use. If not, consider whether we can sell our property and go to live elsewhere.... Look to
your life and health; and if you cannot share the honours of the land like other burghers,
be contented that bread does not fail you, and live well with Christ, and poorly, as I do here;
for I live in a sordid way, regarding neither life nor honours--that is, the world--and suffer
the greatest hardships and innumerable anxieties and dreads. It is now about fifteen years
since I had a single hour of well-being, and all that I have done has been to help you, and
you have never recognised this nor believed it. God pardon us all! I am ready to go on doing
the same so long as I live, if only I am able."

We have reason to believe that the petition to Giuliano proved effectual, for in his next letter
he congratulates his father upon their being restored to favour. In the same communication
he mentions a young Spanish painter whom he knew in Rome, and whom he believes to be ill at
Florence. This was probably the Alonso Berughetta who made a copy of the Cartoon for the Battle
of Pisa. In July 1508 Michelangelo wrote twice about a Spaniard who wanted leave to study the
Cartoon; first begging Buonarroto to procure the keys for him, and afterwards saying that he
is glad to hear that the permission was refused. It does not appear certain whether this was
the same Alonso; but it is interesting to find that Michelangelo disliked his Cartoon being
copied. We also learn from these letters that the Battle of Pisa then remained in the Sala
del Papa.

IX

I will conclude this chapter by translating a sonnet addressed to Giovanni da Pistoja, in which
Michelangelo humorously describes the discomforts he endured while engaged upon the Sistine.
Condivi tells us that from painting so long in a strained attitude, gazing up at the vault,
he lost for some time the power of reading except when he lifted the paper above his head and
raised his eyes. Vasari corroborates the narrative from his own experience in the vast halls
of the Medicean palace.

  I've grown a goitre by dwelling in this den--
  As cats from stagnant streams in Lombardy,
  Or in what other land they hap to be--
  Which drives the belly close beneath the chin:
  My beard turns up to heaven; my nape falls in,
  Fixed on my spine: my breast-bone visibly
  Grows like a harp: a rich embroidery
  Bedews my face from brush-drops thick and thin.
  My loins into my paunch like levers grind:
  My buttock like a crupper bears my weight;
  My feet unguided wander to and fro;
  In front my skin grows loose and long; behind,
  By bending it becomes more taut and strait;
  Crosswise I strain me like a Syrian bow:
  Whence false and quaint, I know,
  Must be the fruit of squinting brain and eye;
  For ill can aim the gun that bends awry.
  Come then, Giovanni, try
  To succour my dead pictures and my fame,
  Since foul I fare and painting is my shame.

CHAPTER VI

I

The Sistine Chapel was built in 1473 by Baccio Pontelli, a Florentine architect, for Pope Sixtus
IV. It is a simple barn-like chamber, 132 feet in length, 44 in breadth, and 68 in height from
the pavement. The ceiling consists of one expansive flattened vault, the central portion of
which offers a large plane surface, well adapted to fresco decoration. The building is lighted
by twelve windows, six upon each side of its length. These are placed high up, their rounded
arches running parallel with the first spring of the vaulting. The ends of the chapel are closed
by flat walls, against the western of which is raised the altar.

When Michelangelo was called to paint here, he found both sides of the building, just below
the windows, decorated in fresco by Perugino, Cosimo Rosselli, Sandro Botticelli, Luca Signorelli,
and Domenico Ghirlandajo. These masters had depicted, in a series of twelve subjects, the history
of Moses and the life of Jesus. Above the lines of fresco, in the spaces between the windows
and along the eastern end at the same height, Botticelli painted a row of twenty-eight Popes.
The spaces below the frescoed histories, down to the seats which ran along the pavement, were
blank, waiting for the tapestries which Raffaello afterwards supplied from cartoons now in
possession of the English Crown. At the west end, above the altar, shone three decorative frescoes
by Perugino, representing the Assumption of the Virgin, between the finding of Moses and the
Nativity. The two last of these pictures opened respectively the history of Moses and the life
of Christ, so that the Old and New Testaments were equally illustrated upon the Chapel walls.
At the opposite, or eastern end, Ghirlandajo painted the Resurrection, and there was a corresponding
picture of Michael contending with Satan for the body of Moses.

Such was the aspect of the Sistine Chapel when Michelangelo began his great work. Perugino's
three frescoes on the west wall were afterwards demolished to make room for his Last Judgment.
The two frescoes on the east wall are now poor pictures by very inferior masters; but the twelve
Scripture histories and Botticelli's twenty-eight Popes remain from the last years of the fifteenth
century.

Taken in their aggregate, the wall-paintings I have described afforded a fair sample of Umbrian
and Tuscan art in its middle or quattrocento age of evolution. It remained for Buonarroti to
cover the vault and the whole western end with masterpieces displaying what Vasari called the
"modern" style in its most sublime and imposing manifestation. At the same time he closed the
cycle of the figurative arts, and rendered any further progress on the same lines impossible.
The growth which began with Niccolò of Pisa and with Cimabue, which advanced through Giotto
and his school, Perugino and Pinturicchio, Piero della Francesca and Signorelli, Fra Angelico
and Benozzo Gozzoli, the Ghirlandajo brothers, the Lippi and Botticelli, effloresced in Michelangelo,
leaving nothing for aftercomers but manneristic imitation.

II

Michelangelo, instinctively and on principle, reacted against the decorative methods of the
fifteenth century. If he had to paint a biblical or mythological subject, he avoided landscapes,
trees, flowers, birds, beasts, and subordinate groups of figures. He eschewed the arabesques,
the labyrinths of foliage and fruit enclosing pictured panels, the candelabra and gay bands
of variegated patterns, which enabled a quattrocento painter, like Gozzoli or Pinturicchio,
to produce brilliant and harmonious general effects at a small expenditure of intellectual
energy. Where the human body struck the keynote of the music in a work of art, he judged that
such simple adjuncts and naïve concessions to the pleasure of the eye should be avoided. An
architectural foundation for the plastic forms to rest on, as plain in structure and as grandiose
in line as could be fashioned, must suffice. These principles he put immediately to the test
in his first decorative undertaking. For the vault of the Sistine he designed a mighty architectural
framework in the form of a hypaethral temple, suspended in the air on jutting pilasters, with
bold cornices, projecting brackets, and ribbed arches flung across the void of heaven. Since
the whole of this ideal building was painted upon plaster, its inconsequence, want of support,
and disconnection from the ground-plan of the chapel do not strike the mind. It is felt to
be a mere basis for the display of pictorial art, the theatre for a thousand shapes of dignity
and beauty.

I have called this imaginary temple hypaethral, because the master left nine openings in the
flattened surface of the central vault. They are unequal in size, five being short parallelograms,
and four being spaces of the same shape but twice their length. Through these the eye is supposed
to pierce the roof and discover the unfettered region of the heavens. But here again Michelangelo
betrayed the inconsequence of his invention. He filled the spaces in question with nine dominant
paintings, representing the history of the Creation, the Fall, and the Deluge. Taking our position
at the west end of the chapel and looking upwards, we see in the first compartment God dividing
light from darkness; in the second, creating the sun and the moon and the solid earth; in the
third, animating the ocean with His brooding influence; in the fourth, creating Adam; in the
fifth, creating Eve. The sixth represents the temptation of our first parents and their expulsion
from Paradise. The seventh shows Noah's sacrifice before entering the ark; the eighth depicts
the Deluge, and the ninth the drunkenness of Noah. It is clear that, between the architectural
conception of a roof opening on the skies and these pictures of events which happened upon
earth, there is no logical connection. Indeed, Michelangelo's new system of decoration bordered
dangerously upon the barocco style, and contained within itself the germs of a vicious mannerism.

It would be captious and unjust to push this criticism home. The architectural setting provided
for the figures and the pictures of the Sistine vault is so obviously conventional, every point
of vantage has been so skilfully appropriated to plastic uses, every square inch of the ideal
building becomes so naturally, and without confusion, a pedestal for the human form, that we
are lost in wonder at the synthetic imagination which here for the first time combined the
arts of architecture, sculpture, and painting in a single organism. Each part of the immense
composition, down to the smallest detail, is necessary to the total effect. We are in the presence
of a most complicated yet mathematically ordered scheme, which owes life and animation to one
master-thought. In spite of its complexity and scientific precision, the vault of the Sistine
does not strike the mind as being artificial or worked out by calculation, but as being predestined
to existence, inevitable, a cosmos instinct with vitality.

On the pendentives between the spaces of the windows, running up to the ends of each of the
five lesser pictures, Michelangelo placed alternate prophets and sibyls upon firm projecting
consoles. Five sibyls and five prophets run along the side-walls of the chapel. The end-walls
sustain each of them a prophet. These twelve figures are introduced as heralds and pioneers
of Christ the Saviour, whose presence on the earth is demanded by the fall of man and the renewal
of sin after the Deluge. In the lunettes above the windows and the arched recesses or spandrels
over them are depicted scenes setting forth the genealogy of Christ and of His Mother. At each
of the four corner-spandrels of the ceiling, Michelangelo painted, in spaces of a very peculiar
shape and on a surface of embarrassing inequality, one magnificent subject symbolical of man's
redemption. The first is the raising of the Brazen Serpent in the wilderness; the second, the
punishment of Haman; the third, the victory of David over Goliath; the fourth, Judith with
the head of Holofernes.

Thus, with a profound knowledge of the Bible, and with an intense feeling for religious symbolism,
Michelangelo unrolled the history of the creation of the world and man, the entrance of sin
into the human heart, the punishment of sin by water, and the reappearance of sin in Noah's
family. Having done this, he intimated, by means of four special mercies granted to the Jewish
people--types and symbols of God's indulgence--that a Saviour would arise to redeem the erring
human race. In confirmation of this promise, he called twelve potent witnesses, seven of the
Hebrew prophets and five of the Pagan sibyls. He made appeal to history, and set around the
thrones on which these witnesses are seated scenes detached from the actual lives of our Lord's
human ancestors.

The intellectual power of this conception is at least equal to the majesty and sublime strength
of its artistic presentation. An awful sense of coming doom and merited damnation hangs in
the thunderous canopy of the Sistine vault, tempered by a solemn and sober expectation of the
Saviour. It is much to be regretted that Christ, the Desired of all Nations, the Redeemer and
Atoner, appears nowhere adequately represented in the Chapel. When Michelangelo resumed his
work there, it was to portray him as an angered Hercules, hurling curses upon helpless victims.
The August rhetoric of the ceiling loses its effective value when we can nowhere point to Christ's
life and work on earth; when there is no picture of the Nativity, none of the Crucifixion,
none of the Resurrection; and when the feeble panels of a Perugino and a Cosimo Rosselli are
crushed into insignificance by the terrible Last Judgment. In spite of Buonarroti's great creative
strength, and injuriously to his real feeling as a Christian, the piecemeal production which
governs all large art undertakings results here in a maimed and one-sided rendering of what
theologians call the Scheme of Salvation.

III

So much has been written about the pictorial beauty, the sublime imagination, the dramatic
energy, the profound significance, the exact science, the shy graces, the terrible force, and
finally the vivid powers of characterisation displayed in these frescoes, that I feel it would
be impertinent to attempt a new discourse upon a theme so time-worn. I must content myself
with referring to what I have already published, which will, I hope, be sufficient to demonstrate
that I do not avoid the task for want of enthusiasm. The study of much rhetorical criticism
makes me feel strongly that, in front of certain masterpieces, silence is best, or, in lieu
of silence, some simple pregnant sayings, capable of rousing folk to independent observation.

These convictions need not prevent me, however, from fixing attention upon a subordinate matter,
but one which has the most important bearing upon Michelangelo's genius. After designing the
architectural theatre which I have attempted to describe, and filling its main spaces with
the vast religious drama he unrolled symbolically in a series of primeval scenes, statuesque
figures, and countless minor groups contributing to one intellectual conception, he proceeded
to charge the interspaces--all that is usually left for facile decorative details--with an
army of passionately felt and wonderfully executed nudes, forms of youths and children, naked
or half draped, in every conceivable posture and with every possible variety of facial type
and expression. On pedestals, cornices, medallions, tympanums, in the angles made by arches,
wherever a vacant plane or unused curve was found, he set these vivid transcripts from humanity
in action. We need not stop to inquire what he intended by that host of plastic shapes evoked
from his imagination. The triumphant leaders of the crew, the twenty lads who sit upon their
consoles, sustaining medallions by ribands which they lift, have been variously and inconclusively
interpreted. In the long row of Michelangelo's creations, those young men are perhaps the most
significant--athletic adolescents, with faces of feminine delicacy and poignant fascination.
But it serves no purpose to inquire what they symbolise. If we did so, we should have to go
further, and ask, What do the bronze figures below them, twisted into the boldest attitudes
the human frame can take, or the twinned children on the pedestals, signify? In this region,
the region of pure plastic play, when art drops the wand of the interpreter and allows physical
beauty to be a law unto itself, Michelangelo demonstrated that no decorative element in the
hand of a really supreme master is equal to the nude.

Previous artists, with a strong instinct for plastic as opposed to merely picturesque effect,
had worked upon the same line. Donatello revelled in the rhythmic dance and stationary grace
of children. Luca Signorelli initiated the plan of treating complex ornament by means of the
mere human body; and for this reason, in order to define the position of Michelangelo in Italian
art-history, I shall devote the next section of this chapter to Luca's work at Orvieto. But
Buonarroti in the Sistine carried their suggestions to completion. The result is a mapped-out
chart of living figures--a vast pattern, each detail of which is a masterpiece of modelling.
After we have grasped the intellectual content of the whole, the message it was meant to inculcate,
the spiritual meaning present to the maker's mind, we discover that, in the sphere of artistic
accomplishment, as distinct from intellectual suggestion, one rhythm of purely figurative beauty
has been carried throughout--from God creating Adam to the boy who waves his torch above the
censer of the Erythrean sibyl.

IV

Of all previous painters, only Luca Signorelli deserves to be called the forerunner of Michelangelo,
and his Chapel of S. Brizio in the Cathedral at Orvieto in some remarkable respects anticipates
the Sistine. This eminent master was commissioned in 1499 to finish its decoration, a small
portion of which had been begun by Fra Angelico. He completed the whole Chapel within the space
of two years; so that the young Michelangelo, upon one of his journeys to or from Rome, may
probably have seen the frescoes in their glory. Although no visit to Orvieto is recorded by
his biographers, the fame of these masterpieces by a man whose work at Florence had already
influenced his youthful genius must certainly have attracted him to a city which lay on the
direct route from Tuscany to the Campagna.

The four walls of the Chapel of S. Brizio are covered with paintings setting forth events immediately
preceding and following the day of judgment. A succession of panels, differing in size and
shape, represent the preaching of Antichrist, the destruction of the world by fire, the resurrection
of the body, the condemnation of the lost, the reception of saved souls into bliss, and the
final states of heaven and hell. These main subjects occupy the upper spaces of each wall,
while below them are placed portraits of poets, surrounded by rich and fanciful arabesques,
including various episodes from Dante and antique mythology. Obeying the spirit of the fifteenth
century, Signorelli did not aim at what may be termed an architectural effect in his decoration
of this building. Each panel of the whole is treated separately, and with very unequal energy,
the artist seeming to exert his strength chiefly in those details which made demands on his
profound knowledge of the human form and his enthusiasm for the nude. The men and women of
the Resurrection, the sublime angels of Heaven and of the Judgment, the discoloured and degraded
fiends of Hell, the magnificently foreshortened clothed figures of the Fulminati, the portraits
in the preaching of Antichrist, reveal Luca's specific quality as a painter, at once impressively
imaginative and crudely realistic. There is something in his way of regarding the world and
of reproducing its aspects which dominates our fancy, does violence to our sense of harmony
and beauty, leaves us broken and bewildered, resentful and at the same moment enthralled. He
is a power which has to be reckoned with; and the reason for speaking about him at length here
is that, in this characteristic blending of intense vision with impassioned realistic effort
after truth to fact, this fascination mingled with repulsion, he anticipated Michelangelo.
Deep at the root of all Buonarroti's artistic qualities lie these contradictions. Studying
Signorelli, we study a parallel psychological problem. The chief difference between the two
masters lies in the command of aesthetic synthesis, the constructive sense of harmony, which
belonged to the younger, but which might, we feel, have been granted in like measure to the
elder, had Luca been born, as Michelangelo was, to complete the evolution of Italian figurative
art, instead of marking one of its most important intermediate moments.

The decorative methods and instincts of the two men were closely similar. Both scorned any
element of interest or beauty which was not strictly plastic--the human body supported by architecture
or by rough indications of the world we live in. Signorelli invented an intricate design for
arabesque pilasters, one on each side of the door leading from his chapel into the Cathedral.
They are painted en grisaille, and are composed exclusively of nudes, mostly male, perched
or grouped in a marvellous variety of attitudes upon an ascending series of slender-stemmed
vases, which build up gigantic candelabra by their aggregation. The naked form is treated with
audacious freedom. It appears to be elastic in the hands of the modeller. Some dead bodies
carried on the backs of brawny porters are even awful by the contrast of their wet-clay limpness
with the muscular energy of brutal life beneath them. Satyrs giving drink to one another, fauns
whispering in the ears of stalwart women, centaurs trotting with corpses flung across their
cruppers, combatants trampling in frenzy upon prostrate enemies, men sunk in self-abandonment
to sloth or sorrow--such are the details of these incomparable columns, where our sense of
the grotesque and vehement is immediately corrected by a perception of rare energy in the artist
who could play thus with his plastic puppets.

We have here certainly the preludings to Michelangelo's serener, more monumental work in the
Sistine Chapel. The leading motive is the same in both great masterpieces. It consists in the
use of the simple body, if possible the nude body, for the expression of thought and emotion,
the telling of a tale, the delectation of the eye by ornamental details. It consists also in
the subordination of the female to the male nude as the symbolic unit of artistic utterance.
Buonarroti is greater than Signorelli chiefly through that larger and truer perception of aesthetic
unity which seems to be the final outcome of a long series of artistic effort. The arabesques,
for instance, with which Luca wreathed his portraits of the poets, are monstrous, bizarre,
in doubtful taste. Michelangelo, with a finer instinct for harmony, a deeper grasp on his own
dominant ideal, excluded this element of quattrocento decoration from his scheme. Raffaello,
with the graceful tact essential to the style, developed its crude rudiments into the choice
forms of fanciful delightfulness which charm us in the Loggie. Signorelli loved violence. A
large proportion of the circular pictures painted en grisaille on these walls represent scenes
of massacre, assassination, torture, ruthless outrage. One of them, extremely spirited in design,
shows a group of three executioners hurling men with millstones round their necks into a raging
river from the bridge which spans it. The first victim flounders half merged in the flood;
a second plunges head foremost through the air; the third stands bent upon the parapet, his
shoulders pressed down by the varlets on each side, at the very point of being flung to death
by drowning. In another of these pictures a man seated upon the ground is being tortured by
the breaking of his teeth, while a furious fellow holds a club suspended over him, in act to
shatter his thigh-bones. Naked soldiers wrestle in mad conflict, whirl staves above their heads,
fling stones, displaying their coarse muscles with a kind of frenzy. Even the classical subjects
suffer from extreme dramatic energy of treatment. Ceres, seeking her daughter through the plains
of Sicily, dashes frantically on a car of dragons, her hair dishevelled to the winds, her cheeks
gashed by her own crooked fingers. Eurydice struggles in the clutch of bestial devils; Pluto,
like a mediaeval Satan, frowns above the scene of fiendish riot; the violin of Orpheus thrills
faintly through the infernal tumult. Gazing on the spasms and convulsions of these grim subjects,
we are inclined to credit a legend preserved at Orvieto to the effect that the painter depicted
his own unfaithful mistress in the naked woman who is being borne on a demon's back through
the air to hell.

No one who has studied Michelangelo impartially will deny that in this preference for the violent
he came near to Signorelli. We feel it in his choice of attitude, the strain he puts upon the
lines of plastic composition, the stormy energy of his conception and expression. It is what
we call his terribilità. But here again that dominating sense of harmony, that instinct for
the necessity of subordinating each artistic element to one strain of architectonic music,
which I have already indicated as the leading note of difference between him and the painter
of Cortona, intervened to elevate his terribleness into the region of sublimity. The violence
of Michelangelo, unlike that of Luca, lay not so much in the choice of savage subjects (cruelty,
ferocity, extreme physical and mental torment) as in a forceful, passionate, tempestuous way
of handling all the themes he treated. The angels of the Judgment, sustaining the symbols of
Christ's Passion, wrestle and bend their agitated limbs like athletes. Christ emerges from
the sepulchre, not in victorious tranquillity, but with the clash and clangour of an irresistible
energy set free. Even in the Crucifixion, one leg has been wrenched away from the nail which
pierced its foot, and writhes round the knee of the other still left riven to the cross. The
loves of Leda and the Swan, of Ixion and Juno, are spasms of voluptuous pain; the sleep of
the Night is troubled with fantastic dreams, and the Dawn starts into consciousness with a
shudder of prophetic anguish. There is not a hand, a torso, a simple nude, sketched by this
extraordinary master, which does not vibrate with nervous tension, as though the fingers that
grasped the pen were clenched and the eyes that viewed the model glowed beneath knit brows.
Michelangelo, in fact, saw nothing, felt nothing, interpreted nothing, on exactly the same
lines as any one who had preceded or who followed him. His imperious personality he stamped
upon the smallest trifle of his work.

Luca's frescoes at Orvieto, when compared with Michelangelo's in the Sistine, mark the transition
from the art of the fourteenth, through the art of the fifteenth, to that of the sixteenth
century, with broad and trenchant force. They are what Marlowe's dramas were to Shakespeare's.
They retain much of the mediaeval tradition both as regards form and sentiment. We feel this
distinctly in the treatment of Dante, whose genius seems to have exerted at least as strong
an influence over Signorelli's imagination as over that of Michelangelo. The episodes from
the Divine Comedy are painted in a rude Gothic spirit. The spirits of Hell seem borrowed from
grotesque bas-reliefs of the Pisan school. The draped, winged, and armed angels of Heaven are
posed with a ceremonious research of suavity or grandeur. These and other features of his work
carry us back to the period of Giotto and Niccolò Pisano. But the true force of the man, what
made him a commanding master of the middle period, what distinguished him from all his fellows
of the quattrocento, is the passionate delight he took in pure humanity--the nude, the body
studied under all its aspects and with no repugnance for its coarseness--man in his crudity
made the sole sufficient object for figurative art, anatomy regarded as the crowning and supreme
end of scientific exploration. It is this in his work which carries us on toward the next age,
and justifies our calling Luca "the morning-star of Michelangelo."

It would be wrong to ascribe too much to the immediate influence of the elder over the younger
artist--at any rate in so far as the frescoes of the Chapel of S. Brizio may have determined
the creation of the Sistine. Yet Vasari left on record that "even Michelangelo followed the
manner of Signorelli, as any one may see." Undoubtedly, Buonarroti, while an inmate of Lorenzo
de' Medici's palace at Florence, felt the power of Luca's Madonna with the naked figures in
the background; the leading motive of which he transcended in his Doni Holy Family. Probably
at an early period he had before his eyes the bold nudities, uncompromising designs, and awkward
composition of Luca's so-called School of Pan. In like manner, we may be sure that during his
first visit to Rome he was attracted by Signorelli's solemn fresco of Moses in the Sistine.
These things were sufficient to establish a link of connection between the painter of Cortona
and the Florentine sculptor. And when Michelangelo visited the Chapel of S. Brizio, after he
had fixed and formed his style (exhibiting his innate force of genius in the Pietà, the Bacchus,
the Cupid, the David, the statue of Julius, the Cartoon for the Battle of Pisa), that early
bond of sympathy must have been renewed and enforced. They were men of a like temperament,
and governed by kindred aesthetic instincts. Michelangelo brought to its perfection that system
of working wholly through the human form which Signorelli initiated. He shared his violence,
his terribilità, his almost brutal candour. In the fated evolution of Italian art, describing
its parabola of vital energy, Michelangelo softened, sublimed, and harmonised his predecessor's
qualities. He did this by abandoning Luca's naïvetés and crudities; exchanging his savage transcripts
from coarse life for profoundly studied idealisations of form; subordinating his rough and
casual design to schemes of balanced composition, based on architectural relations; penetrating
the whole accomplished work, as he intended it should be, with a solemn and severe strain of
unifying intellectual melody.

Viewed in this light, the vault of the Sistine and the later fresco of the Last Judgment may
be taken as the final outcome of all previous Italian art upon a single line of creative energy,
and that line the one anticipated by Luca Signorelli. In like manner, the Stanze and Loggie
of the Vatican were the final outcome of the same process upon another line, suggested by Perugino
and Fra Bartolommeo.

Michelangelo adapted to his own uses and bent to his own genius motives originated by the Pisani,
Giotto, Giacopo della Quercia, Donatello, Masaccio, while working in the spirit of Signorelli.
He fused and recast the antecedent materials of design in sculpture and painting, producing
a quintessence of art beyond which it was impossible to advance without breaking the rhythm,
so intensely strung, and without contradicting too violently the parent inspiration. He strained
the chord of rhythm to its very utmost, and made incalculable demands upon the religious inspiration
of its predecessors. His mighty talent was equal to the task of transfusion and remodelling
which the exhibition of the supreme style demanded. But after him there remained nothing for
successors except mechanical imitation, soulless rehandling of themes he had exhausted by reducing
them to his imperious imagination in a crucible of fiery intensity.

V

No critic with a just sense of phraseology would call Michelangelo a colourist in the same
way as Titian and Rubens were colourists. Still it cannot be denied with justice that the painter
of the Sistine had a keen perception of what his art required in this region, and of how to
attain it. He planned a comprehensive architectural scheme, which served as setting and support
for multitudes of draped and undraped human figures. The colouring is kept deliberately low
and subordinate to the two main features of the design--architecture, and the plastic forms
of men and women. Flesh-tints, varying from the strong red tone of Jonah's athletic manhood,
through the glowing browns of the seated Genii, to the delicate carnations of Adam and the
paler hues of Eve; orange and bronze in draperies, medallions, decorative nudes, russets like
the tints of dead leaves; lilacs, cold greens, blue used sparingly; all these colours are dominated
and brought into harmony by the greys of the architectural setting. It may indeed be said that
the different qualities of flesh-tints, the architectural greys, and a dull bronzed yellow
strike the chord of the composition. Reds are conspicuous by their absence in any positive
hue. There is no vermilion, no pure scarlet or crimson, but a mixed tint verging upon lake.
The yellows are brought near to orange, tawny, bronze, except in the hair of youthful personages,
a large majority of whom are blonde. The only colour which starts out staringly is ultramarine,
owing of course to this mineral material resisting time and change more perfectly than the
pigments with which it is associated. The whole scheme leaves a grave harmonious impression
on the mind, thoroughly in keeping with the sublimity of the thoughts expressed. No words can
describe the beauty of the flesh-painting, especially in the figures of the Genii, or the technical
delicacy with which the modelling of limbs, the modulation from one tone to another, have been
carried from silvery transparent shades up to the strongest accents.

VI

Mr. Ruskin has said, and very justly said, that "the highest art can do no more than rightly
represent the human form." This is what the Italians of the Renaissance meant when, through
the mouths of Ghiberti, Buonarroti, and Cellini, they proclaimed that the perfect drawing of
a fine nude, "un bel corpo ignudo," was the final test of mastery in plastic art. Mr. Ruskin
develops his text in sentences which have peculiar value from his lips.

We need not pause to consider whether the Italian's inferiority to the Greek's in the plastic
modelling of human bodies was due to the artist's own religious sentiment. That seems a far-fetched
explanation for the shortcomings of men so frankly realistic and so scientifically earnest
as the masters of the Cinque Cento were. Michelangelo's magnificent cartoon of Leda and the
Swan, if it falls short of some similar subject in some gabinetto segreto of antique fresco,
does assuredly not do so because the draughtsman's hand faltered in pious dread or pious aspiration.
Nevertheless, Ruskin is right in telling us that no Italian modelled a female nude equal to
the Aphrodite of Melos, or a male nude equal to the Apoxyomenos of the Braccio Nuovo. He is
also right in pointing out that no Greek sculptor approached the beauty of facial form and
expression which we recognise in Raffaello's Madonna di San Sisto, in Sodoma's S. Sebastian,
in Guercino's Christ at the Corsini Palace, in scores of early Florentine sepulchral monuments
and pictures, in Umbrian saints and sweet strange portrait-fancies by Da Vinci.

The fact seems to be that Greek and Italian plastic art followed different lines of development,
owing to the difference of dominant ideas in the races, and to the difference of social custom.
Religion naturally played a foremost part in the art-evolution of both epochs. The anthropomorphic
Greek mythology encouraged sculptors to concentrate their attention upon what Hegel called
"the sensuous manifestation of the idea," while Greek habits rendered them familiar with the
body frankly exhibited. Mediaeval religion withdrew Italian sculptors and painters from the
problems of purely physical form, and obliged them to study the expression of sentiments and
aspirations which could only be rendered by emphasising psychical qualities revealed through
physiognomy. At the same time, modern habits of life removed the naked body from their ken.

We may go further, and observe that the conditions under which Greek art flourished developed
what the Germans call "Allgemeinheit," a tendency to generalise, which was inimical to strongly
marked facial expression or characterisation. The conditions of Italian art, on the other hand,
favoured an opposite tendency--to particularise, to enforce detail, to emphasise the artist's
own ideal or the model's quality. When the type of a Greek deity had been fixed, each successive
master varied this within the closest limits possible. For centuries the type remained fundamentally
unaltered, undergoing subtle transformations, due partly to the artist's temperament, and partly
to changes in the temper of society. Consequently those aspects of the human form which are
capable of most successful generalisation, the body and the limbs, exerted a kind of conventional
tyranny over Greek art. And Greek artists applied to the face the same rules of generalisation
which were applicable to the body.

The Greek god or goddess was a sensuous manifestation of the idea, a particle of universal
godhood incarnate in a special fleshly form, corresponding to the particular psychological
attributes of the deity whom the sculptor had to represent. No deviation from the generalised
type was possible. The Christian God, on the contrary, is a spirit; and all the emanations
from this spirit, whether direct, as in the person of Christ, or derived, as in the persons
of the saints, owe their sensuous form and substance to the exigencies of mortal existence,
which these persons temporarily and phenomenally obeyed. Since, then, the sensuous manifestation
has now become merely symbolic, and is no longer an indispensable investiture of the idea,
it may be altered at will in Christian art without irreverence. The utmost capacity of the
artist is now exerted, not in enforcing or refining a generalised type, but in discovering
some new facial expression which shall reveal psychological quality in a particular being.
Doing so, he inevitably insists upon the face; and having formed a face expressive of some
defined quality, he can hardly give to the body that generalised beauty which belongs to a
Greek nymph or athlete.

What we mean by the differences between Classic and Romantic art lies in the distinctions I
am drawing. Classicism sacrifices character to breadth. Romanticism sacrifices breadth to character.
Classic art deals more triumphantly with the body, because the body gains by being broadly
treated. Romantic art deals more triumphantly with the face, because the features lose by being
broadly treated.

This brings me back to Mr. Ruskin, who, in another of his treatises, condemns Michelangelo
for a want of variety, beauty, feeling, in his heads and faces. Were this the case, Michelangelo
would have little claim to rank as one of the world's chief artists. We have admitted that
the Italians did not produce such perfectly beautiful bodes and limbs as the Greeks did, and
have agreed that the Greeks produced less perfectly beautiful faces than the Italians. Suppose,
then, that Michelangelo failed in his heads and faces, he, being an Italian, and therefore
confessedly inferior to the Greeks in his bodies and limbs, must, by the force of logic, emerge
less meritorious than we thought him.

VII

To many of my readers the foregoing section will appear superfluous, polemical, sophistic--three
bad things. I wrote it, and I let it stand, however, because it serves as preface to what I
have to say in general about Michelangelo's ideal of form. He was essentially a Romantic as
opposed to a Classic artist. That is to say, he sought invariably for character--character
in type, character in attitude, character in every action of each muscle, character in each
extravagance of pose. He applied the Romantic principle to the body and the limbs, exactly
to that region of the human form which the Greeks had conquered as their province. He did so
with consummate science and complete mastery of physiological law. What is more, he compelled
the body to become expressive, not, as the Greeks had done, of broad general conceptions, but
of the most intimate and poignant personal emotions. This was his main originality. At the
same time, being a Romantic, he deliberately renounced the main tradition of that manner. He
refused to study portraiture, as Vasari tells us, and as we see so plainly in the statues of
the Dukes at Florence. He generalised his faces, composing an ideal cast of features out of
several types. In the rendering of the face and head, then, he chose to be a Classic, while
in the treatment of the body he was vehemently modern. In all his work which is not meant to
be dramatic--that is, excluding the damned souls in the Last Judgment, the bust of Brutus,
and some keen psychological designs--character is sacrificed to a studied ideal of form, so
far as the face is concerned. That he did this wilfully, on principle, is certain. The proof
remains in the twenty heads of those incomparable genii of the Sistine, each one of whom possesses
a beauty and a quality peculiar to himself alone. They show that, if he had so chosen, he could
have played upon the human countenance with the same facility as on the human body, varying
its expressiveness ad infinitum.

Why Michelangelo preferred to generalise the face and to particularise the body remains a secret
buried in the abysmal deeps of his personality. In his studies from the model, unlike Lionardo,
he almost always left the features vague, while working out the trunk and limbs with strenuous
passion. He never seems to have been caught and fascinated by the problem offered by the eyes
and features of a male or female. He places masks or splendid commonplaces upon frames palpitant
and vibrant with vitality in pleasure or in anguish.

In order to guard against an apparent contradiction, I must submit that, when Michelangelo
particularised the body and the limbs, he strove to make them the symbols of some definite
passion or emotion. He seems to have been more anxious about the suggestions afforded by their
pose and muscular employment than he was about the expression of the features. But we shall
presently discover that, so far as pure physical type is concerned, he early began to generalise
the structure of the body, passing finally into what may not unjustly be called a mannerism
of form.

These points may be still further illustrated by what a competent critic has recently written
upon Michelangelo's treatment of form. "No one," says Professor Brücke, "ever knew so well
as Michelangelo Buonarroti how to produce powerful and strangely harmonious effects by means
of figures in themselves open to criticism, simply by his mode of placing and ordering them,
and of distributing their lines. For him a figure existed only in his particular representation
of it; how it would have looked in any other position was a matter of no concern to him." We
may even go further, and maintain that Michelangelo was sometimes wilfully indifferent to the
physical capacities of the human body in his passionate research of attitudes which present
picturesque and novel beauty. The ancients worked on quite a different method. They created
standard types which, in every conceivable posture, would exhibit the grace and symmetry belonging
to well-proportioned frames. Michelangelo looked to the effect of a particular posture. He
may have been seduced by his habit of modelling figures in clay instead of going invariably
to the living subject, and so may have handled nature with unwarrantable freedom. Anyhow, we
have here another demonstration of his romanticism.

VIII

The true test of the highest art is that it should rightly represent the human form. Agreed
upon this point, it remains for us to consider in what way Michelangelo conceived and represented
the human form. If we can discover his ideal, his principles, his leading instincts in this
decisive matter, we shall unlock, so far as that is possible, the secret of his personality
as man and artist. The psychological quality of every great master must eventually be determined
by his mode of dealing with the phenomena of sex.

In Pheidias we find a large impartiality. His men and women are cast in the same mould of grandeur,
inspired with equal strength and sweetness, antiphonal notes in dual harmony. Praxiteles leans
to the female, Lysippus to the male; and so, through all the gamut of the figurative craftsmen,
we discover more or less affinity for man or woman. One is swayed by woman and her gracefulness,
the other by man and his vigour. Few have realised the Pheidian perfection of doing equal justice.

Michelangelo emerges as a mighty master who was dominated by the vision of male beauty, and
who saw the female mainly through the fascination of the other sex. The defect of his art is
due to a certain constitutional callousness, a want of sensuous or imaginative sensibility
for what is specifically feminine.

Not a single woman carved or painted by the hand of Michelangelo has the charm of early youth
or the grace of virginity. The Eve of the Sistine, the Madonna of S. Peter's, the Night and
Dawn of the Medicean Sacristy, are female in the anatomy of their large and grandly modelled
forms, but not feminine in their sentiment. This proposition requires no proof. It is only
needful to recall a Madonna by Raphael, a Diana by Correggio, a Leda by Lionardo, a Venus by
Titian, a S. Agnes by Tintoretto. We find ourselves immediately in a different region--the
region of artists who loved, admired, and comprehended what is feminine in the beauty and the
temperament of women. Michelangelo neither loved, nor admired, nor yielded to the female sex.
Therefore he could not deal plastically with what is best and loveliest in the female form.
His plastic ideal of the woman is masculine. He builds a colossal frame of muscle, bone, and
flesh, studied with supreme anatomical science. He gives to Eve the full pelvis and enormous
haunches of an adult matron. It might here be urged that he chose to symbolise the fecundity
of her who was destined to be the mother of the human race. But if this was his meaning, why
did he not make Adam a corresponding symbol of fatherhood? Adam is an adolescent man, colossal
in proportions, but beardless, hairless; the attributes of sex in him are developed, but not
matured by use. The Night, for whom no symbolism of maternity was needed, is a woman who has
passed through many pregnancies. Those deeply delved wrinkles on the vast and flaccid abdomen
sufficiently indicate this. Yet when we turn to Michelangelo's sonnets on Night, we find that
he habitually thought of her as a mysterious and shadowy being, whose influence, though potent
for the soul, disappeared before the frailest of all creatures bearing light. The Dawn, again,
in her deep lassitude, has nothing of vernal freshness. Built upon the same type as the Night,
she looks like Messalina dragging herself from heavy slumber, for once satiated as well as
tired, stricken for once with the conscience of disgust. When he chose to depict the acts of
passion or of sensual pleasure, a similar want of sympathy with what is feminine in womanhood
leaves an even more discordant impression on the mind. I would base the proof of this remark
upon the marble Leda of the Bargello Museum, and an old engraving of Ixion clasping the phantom
of Juno under the form of a cloud. In neither case do we possess Michelangelo's own handiwork;
he must not, therefore, be credited with the revolting expression, as of a drunken profligate,
upon the face of Leda. Yet in both cases he is indubitably responsible for the general design,
and for the brawny carnality of the repulsive woman. I find it difficult to resist the conclusion
that Michelangelo felt himself compelled to treat women as though they were another and less
graceful sort of males. The sentiment of woman, what really distinguishes the sex, whether
voluptuously or passionately or poetically apprehended, emerges in no eminent instance of his
work. There is a Cartoon at Naples for a Bacchante, which Bronzino transferred to canvas and
coloured. This design illustrates the point on which I am insisting. An athletic circus-rider
of mature years, with abnormally developed muscles, might have posed as model for this female
votary of Dionysus. Before he made this drawing, Michelangelo had not seen those frescoes of
the dancing Bacchantes from Pompeii; nor had he perhaps seen the Maenads on Greek bas-reliefs
tossing wild tresses backwards, swaying virginal lithe bodies to the music of the tambourine.
We must not, therefore, compare his concept with those masterpieces of the later classical
imagination. Still, many of his contemporaries, vastly inferior to him in penetrative insight,
a Giovanni da Udine, a Perino del Vaga, a Primaticcio, not to speak of Raffaello or of Lionardo,
felt what the charm of youthful womanhood upon the revel might be. He remained insensible to
the melody of purely feminine lines; and the only reason why his transcripts from the female
form are not gross like those of Flemish painters, repulsive like Rembrandt's, fleshly like
Rubens's, disagreeable like the drawings made by criminals in prisons, is that they have little
womanly about them.

Lest these assertions should appear too dogmatic, I will indicate the series of works in which
I recognise Michelangelo's sympathy with genuine female quality. All the domestic groups, composed
of women and children, which fill the lunettes and groinings between the windows in the Sistine
Chapel, have a charming twilight sentiment of family life or maternal affection. They are among
the loveliest and most tranquil of his conceptions. The Madonna above the tomb of Julius II.
cannot be accused of masculinity, nor the ecstatic figure of the Rachel beneath it. Both of
these statues represent what Goethe called "das ewig Weibliche" under a truly felt and natural
aspect. The Delphian and Erythrean Sibyls are superb in their majesty. Again, in those numerous
designs for Crucifixions, Depositions from the Cross, and Pietàs, which occupied so much of
Michelangelo's attention during his old age, we find an intense and pathetic sympathy with
the sorrows of Mary, expressed with noble dignity and a pious sense of godhead in the human
mother. It will be remarked that throughout the cases I have reserved as exceptions, it is
not woman in her plastic beauty and her radiant charm that Michelangelo has rendered, but woman
in her tranquil or her saddened and sorrow-stricken moods. What he did not comprehend and could
not represent was woman in her girlishness, her youthful joy, her physical attractiveness,
her magic of seduction.

Michelangelo's women suggest demonic primitive beings, composite and undetermined products
of the human race in evolution, before the specific qualities of sex have been eliminated from
a general predominating mass of masculinity. At their best, they carry us into the realm of
Lucretian imagination. He could not have incarnated in plastic form Shakespeare's Juliet and
Imogen, Dante's Francesca da Rimini, Tasso's Erminia and Clorinda; but he might have supplied
a superb illustration to the opening lines of the Lucretian epic, where Mars lies in the bed
of Venus, and the goddess spreads her ample limbs above her Roman lover. He might have evoked
images tallying the vision of primal passion in the fourth book of that poem.

What a picture of primeval breadth and vastness!

What makes Michelangelo's crudity in his plastic treatment of the female form the more remarkable
is that in his poetry he seems to feel the influence of women mystically. I shall have to discuss
this topic in another place. It is enough here to say that, with very few exceptions, we remain
in doubt whether he is addressing a woman at all. There are none of those spontaneous utterances
by which a man involuntarily expresses the outgoings of his heart to a beloved object, the
throb of irresistible emotion, the physical ache, the sense of wanting, the joys and pains,
the hopes and fears, the ecstasies and disappointments, which belong to genuine passion. The
woman is, for him, an allegory, something he has not approached and handled. Of her personality
we learn nothing. Of her bodily presentment, the eyes alone are mentioned; and the eyes are
treated as the path to Paradise for souls which seek emancipation from the flesh. Raffaello's
few and far inferior sonnets vibrate with an intense and potent sensibility to this woman or
to that.

Michelangelo's "donna" might just as well be a man; and indeed the poems he addressed to men,
though they have nothing sensual about them, reveal a finer touch in the emotion of the writer.
It is difficult to connect this vaporous incorporeal "donna" of the poems with those brawny
colossal adult females of the statues, unless we suppose that Michelangelo remained callous
both to the physical attractions and the emotional distinction of woman as she actually is.

I have tried to demonstrate that, plastically, he did not understand women, and could not reproduce
their form in art with sympathetic feeling for its values of grace, suavity, virginity, and
frailty. He imported masculine qualities into every female theme he handled. The case is different
when we turn to his treatment of the male figure. It would be impossible to adduce a single
instance, out of the many hundreds of examples furnished by his work, in which a note of femininity
has been added to the masculine type. He did not think enough of women to reverse the process,
and create hermaphroditic beings like the Apollino of Praxiteles or the S. Sebastian of Sodoma.
His boys and youths and adult men remain, in the truest and the purest sense of the word, virile.
Yet with what infinite variety, with what a deep intelligence of its resources, with what inexhaustible
riches of enthusiasm and science, he played upon the lyre of the male nude! How far more fit
for purposes of art he felt the man to be than the woman is demonstrated, not only by his approaching
woman from the masculine side, but also by his close attention to none but male qualities in
men. I need not insist or enlarge upon this point. The fact is apparent to every one with eyes
to see. It would be futile to expound Michelangelo's fertility in dealing with the motives
of the male figure as minutely as I judged it necessary to explain the poverty of his inspiration
through the female. But it ought to be repeated that, over the whole gamut of the scale, from
the grace of boyhood, through the multiform delightfulness of adolescence into the firm force
of early manhood, and the sterner virtues of adult age, one severe and virile spirit controls
his fashioning of plastic forms. He even exaggerates what is masculine in the male, as he caricatures
the female by ascribing impossible virility to her. But the exaggeration follows here a line
of mental and moral rectitude. It is the expression of his peculiar sensibility to physical
structure.

IX

When we study the evolution of Michelangelo's ideal of form, we find at the beginning of his
life a very short period in which he followed the traditions of Donatello and imitated Greek
work. The seated Madonna in bas-relief and the Giovannino belong to this first stage. So does
the bas-relief of the Centaurs. It soon becomes evident, however, that Michelangelo was not
destined to remain a continuator of Donatello's manner or a disciple of the classics. The next
period, which includes the Madonna della Febbre, the Bruges Madonna, the Bacchus, the Cupid,
and the David, is marked by an intense search after the truth of Nature. Both Madonnas might
be criticised for unreality, owing to the enormous development of the thorax and something
artificial in the type of face. But all the male figures seem to have been studied from the
model. There is an individuality about the character of each, a naturalism, an aiming after
realistic expression, which separate this group from previous and subsequent works by Buonarroti.
Traces of Donatello's influence survive in the treatment of the long large hands of David,
the cast of features selected for that statue, and the working of the feet. Indeed it may be
said that Donatello continued through life to affect the genius of Michelangelo by a kind of
sympathy, although the elder master's naïveté was soon discarded by the younger.

The second period culminated in the Cartoon for the Battle of Pisa. This design appears to
have fixed the style now known to us as Michelangelesque, and the loss of it is therefore irreparable.
It exercised the consummate science which he had acquired, his complete mastery over the male
nude. It defined his firm resolve to treat linear design from the point of view of sculpture
rather than of painting proper. It settled his determination to work exclusively through and
by the human figure, rejecting all subordinate elements of decoration. Had we possessed this
epoch-making masterpiece, we should probably have known Michelangelo's genius in its flower-period
of early ripeness, when anatomical learning was still combined with a sustained dependence
upon Nature. The transition from the second to the third stage in this development of form-ideal
remains imperfectly explained, because the bathers in the Arno were necessary to account for
the difference between the realistic David and the methodically studied genii of the Sistine.

The vault of the Sistine shows Michelangelo's third manner in perfection. He has developed
what may be called a scheme of the human form. The apparently small head, the enormous breadth
of shoulder, the thorax overweighing the whole figure, the finely modelled legs, the large
and powerful extremities, which characterise his style henceforward, culminate in Adam, repeat
themselves throughout the genii, govern the prophets. But Nature has not been neglected. Nothing
is more remarkable in that vast decorative mass of figures than the variety of types selected,
the beauty and animation of the faces, the extraordinary richness, elasticity, and freshness
of the attitudes presented to the eye. Every period of life has been treated with impartial
justice, and both sexes are adequately handled. The Delphian, Erythrean, and Libyan Sibyls
display a sublime sense of facial beauty. The Eve of the Temptation has even something of positively
feminine charm. This is probably due to the fact that Michelangelo here studied expression
and felt the necessity of dramatic characterisation in this part of his work. He struck each
chord of what may be called the poetry of figurative art, from the epic cantos of Creation,
Fall, and Deluge, through the tragic odes uttered by prophets and sibyls down to the lyric
notes of the genii, and the sweet idyllic strains of the groups in the lunettes and spandrels.

It cannot be said that even here Michelangelo felt the female nude as sympathetically as he
felt the male. The women in the picture of the Deluge are colossal creatures, scarcely distinguishable
from the men except by their huge bosoms. His personal sense of beauty finds fullest expression
in the genii. The variations on one theme of youthful loveliness and grace are inexhaustible;
the changes rung on attitude, and face, and feature are endless. The type, as I have said,
has already become schematic. It is adolescent, but the adolescence is neither that of the
Greek athlete nor that of the nude model. Indeed, it is hardly natural; nor yet is it ideal
in the Greek sense of that term. The physical gracefulness of a slim ephebus was never seized
by Michelangelo. His Ganymede displays a massive trunk and brawny thighs. Compare this with
the Ganymede of Titian. Compare the Cupid at South Kensington with the Praxitelean Genius of
the Vatican--the Adonis and the Bacchus of the Bargello with Hellenic statues. The bulk and
force of maturity are combined with the smoothness of boyhood and with a delicacy of face that
borders on the feminine.

It is an arid region, the region of this mighty master's spirit. There are no heavens and no
earth or sea in it; no living creatures, forests, flowers; no bright colours, brilliant lights,
or cavernous darks. In clear grey twilight appear a multitude of naked forms, both male and
female, yet neither male nor female of the actual world; rather the brood of an inventive intellect,
teeming with preoccupations of abiding thoughts and moods of feeling, which become for it incarnate
in these stupendous figures. It is as though Michelangelo worked from the image in his brain
outwards to a physical presentment supplied by his vast knowledge of life, creating forms proper
to his own specific concept.

Nowhere else in plastic art does the mental world peculiar to the master press in so immediately,
without modification and without mitigation, upon our sentient imagination. I sometimes dream
that the inhabitants of the moon may be like Michelangelo's men and women, as I feel sure its
landscape resembles his conception of the material universe.

What I have called Michelangelo's third manner, the purest manifestation of which is to be
found in the vault of the Sistine, sustained itself for a period of many years. The surviving
fragments of sculpture for the tomb of Julius, especially the Captives of the Louvre and the
statues in the Sacristy at S. Lorenzo, belong to this stage. A close and intimate rapport with
Nature can be perceived in all the work he designed and executed during the pontificates of
Leo and Clement. The artist was at his fullest both of mental energy and physical vigour. What
he wrought now bears witness to his plenitude of manhood. Therefore, although the type fixed
for the Sistine prevailed--I mean that generalisation of the human form in certain wilfully
selected proportions, conceived to be ideally beautiful or necessary for the grand style in
vast architectonic schemes of decoration--still it is used with an exquisite sensitiveness
to the pose and structure of the natural body, a delicate tact in the definition of muscle
and articulation, an acute feeling for the qualities of flesh and texture. None of the creations
of this period, moreover, are devoid of intense animating emotions and ideas.

Unluckily, during all the years which intervened between the Sistine vault and the Last Judgment,
Michelangelo was employed upon architectural problems and engineering projects, which occupied
his genius in regions far removed from that of figurative art. It may, therefore, be asserted,
that although he did not retrograde from want of practice, he had no opportunity of advancing
further by the concentration of his genius on design. This accounts, I think, for the change
in his manner which we notice when he began to paint in Rome under Pope Paul III. The fourth
stage in his development of form is reached now. He has lost nothing of his vigour, nothing
of his science. But he has drifted away from Nature. All the innumerable figures of the Last
Judgment, in all their varied attitudes, with divers moods of dramatic expression, are diagrams
wrought out imaginatively from the stored-up resources of a lifetime. It may be argued that
it was impossible to pose models, in other words, to appeal to living men and women, for the
foreshortenings of falling or soaring shapes in that huge drift of human beings. This is true;
and the strongest testimony to the colossal powers of observation possessed by Michelangelo
is that none of all those attitudes are wrong. We may verify them, if we take particular pains
to do so, by training the sense of seeing to play the part of a detective camera. Michelangelo
was gifted with a unique faculty for seizing momentary movements, fixing them upon his memory,
and transferring them to fresco by means of his supreme acquaintance with the bony structure
and the muscular capacities of the human frame. Regarded from this point of view, the Last
Judgment was an unparalleled success. As such the contemporaries of Buonarroti hailed it. Still,
the breath of life has exaled from all those bodies, and the tyranny of the schematic ideal
of form is felt in each of them. Without meaning to be irreverent, we might fancy that two
elastic lay-figures, one male, the other female, both singularly similar in shape, supplied
the materials for the total composition. Of the dramatic intentions and suggestions underlying
these plastic and elastic shapes I am not now speaking. It is my present business to establish
the phases through which my master's sense of form passed from its cradle to its grave.

In the frescoes of the Cappella Paolina, so ruined at this day that we can hardly value them,
the mechanic manner of the fourth stage seems to reach its climax. Ghosts of their former selves,
they still reveal the poverty of creative and spontaneous inspiration which presided over their
nativity.

Michelangelo's fourth manner might be compared with that of Milton in "Paradise Regained" and
"Samson Agonistes." Both of these great artists in old age exaggerate the defects of their
qualities. Michelangelo's ideal of line and proportion in the human form becomes stereotyped
and strained, as do Milton's rhythms and his Latinisms. The generous wine of the Bacchus and
of "Comus," so intoxicating in its newness, the same wine in the Sistine and "Paradise Lost,"
so overwhelming in its mature strength, has acquired an austere aridity. Yet, strange to say,
amid these autumn stubbles of declining genius we light upon oases more sweet, more tenderly
suggestive, than aught the prime produced. It is not my business to speak of Milton here. I
need not recall his "Knights of Logres and of Lyonesse," or resume his Euripidean garlands
showered on Samson's grave. But, for my master Michelangelo, it will suffice to observe that
all the grace his genius held, refined, of earthly grossness quit, appeared, under the dominance
of this fourth manner, in the mythological subjects he composed for Tommaso Cavalieri, and,
far more nobly, in his countless studies for the celebration of Christ's Passion. The designs
bequeathed to us from this period are very numerous. They were never employed in the production
of any monumental work of sculpture or of painting. For this very reason, because they were
occasional improvisations, preludes, dreams of things to be, they preserve the finest bloom,
the Indian summer of his fancy. Lovers of Michelangelo must dedicate their latest and most
loving studies to this phase of his fourth manner.

X

If we seek to penetrate the genius of an artist, not merely forming a correct estimate of his
technical ability and science, but also probing his personality to the core, as near as this
is possible for us to do, we ought to give our undivided study to his drawings. It is there,
and there alone, that we come face to face with the real man, in his unguarded moments, in
his hours of inspiration, in the laborious effort to solve a problem of composition, or in
the happy flow of genial improvisation. Michelangelo was wont to maintain that all the arts
are included in the art of design. Sculpture, painting, architecture, he said, are but subordinate
branches of draughtsmanship. And he went so far as to assert that the mechanical arts, with
engineering and fortification, nay, even the minor arts of decoration and costume, owe their
existence to design. The more we reflect upon this apparent paradox, the more shall we feel
it to be true. At any rate, there are no products of human thought and feeling capable of being
expressed by form which do not find their common denominator in a linear drawing. The simplicity
of a sketch, the comparative rapidity with which it is produced, the concentration of meaning
demanded by its rigid economy of means, render it more symbolical, more like the hieroglyph
of its maker's mind, than any finished work can be. We may discover a greater mass of interesting
objects in a painted picture or a carved statue; but we shall never find exactly the same thing,
never the involuntary revelation of the artist's soul, the irrefutable witness to his mental
and moral qualities, to the mysteries of his genius and to its limitations.

If this be true of all artists, it is in a peculiar sense true of Michelangelo. Great as he
was as sculptor, painter, architect, he was only perfect and impeccable as draughtsman. Inadequate
realisation, unequal execution, fatigue, satiety, caprice of mood, may sometimes be detected
in his frescoes and his statues; but in design we never find him faulty, hasty, less than absolute
master over the selected realm of thought. His most interesting and instructive work remains
what he performed with pen and chalk in hand. Deeply, therefore, must we regret the false modesty
which made him destroy masses of his drawings, while we have reason to be thankful for those
marvellous photographic processes which nowadays have placed the choicest of his masterpieces
within the reach of every one.

The following passages from Vasari's and Condivi's Lives deserve attention by those who approach
the study of Buonarroti's drawings. Vasari says: "His powers of imagination were such, that
he was frequently compelled to abandon his purpose, because he could not express by the hand
those grand and sublime ideas which he had conceived in his mind; nay, he has spoiled and destroyed
many works for this cause; and I know, too, that some short time before his death he burnt
a large number of his designs, sketches, and cartoons, that none might see the labours he had
endured, and the trials to which he had subjected his spirit, in his resolve not to fall short
of perfection. I have myself secured some drawings by his hand, which were found in Florence,
and are now in my book of designs, and these, although they give evidence of his great genius,
yet prove also that the hammer of Vulcan was necessary to bring Minerva from the head of Jupiter.
He would construct an ideal shape out of nine, ten and even twelve different heads, for no
other purpose than to obtain a certain grace of harmony and composition which is not to be
found in the natural form, and would say that the artist must have his measuring tools, not
in the hand, but in the eye, because the hands do but operate, it is the eye that judges; he
pursued the same idea in architecture also." Condivi adds some information regarding his extraordinary
fecundity and variety of invention: "He was gifted with a most tenacious memory, the power
of which was such that, though he painted so many thousands of figures, as any one can see,
he never made one exactly like another or posed in the same attitude. Indeed, I have heard
him say that he never draws a line without remembering whether he has drawn it before; erasing
any repetition, when the design was meant to be exposed to public view. His force of imagination
is also most extraordinary. This has been the chief reason why he was never quite satisfied
with his own work, and always depreciated its quality, esteeming that his hand failed to attain
the idea which he had formed within his brain."

XI

The four greatest draughtsmen of this epoch were Lionardo da Vinci, Michelangelo, Raffaello,
and Andrea del Sarto. They are not to be reckoned as equals; for Lionardo and Michelangelo
outstrip the other two almost as much as these surpass all lesser craftsmen. Each of the four
men expressed his own peculiar vision of the world with pen, or chalk, or metal point, finding
the unique inevitable line, the exact touch and quality of stroke, which should present at
once a lively transcript from real Nature, and a revelation of the artist's particular way
of feeling Nature. In Lionardo it is a line of subtlety and infinite suggestiveness; in Michelangelo
it compels attention, and forcibly defines the essence of the object; in Raffaello it carries
melody, the charm of an unerring rhythm; in Andrea it seems to call for tone, colour, atmosphere,
and makes their presence felt. Raffaello was often faulty: even in the wonderful pen-drawing
of two nudes he sent to Albrecht Dürer as a sample of his skill, we blame the knees and ankles
of his models. Lionardo was sometimes wilful, whimsical, seduced by dreamland, like a god born
amateur. Andrea allowed his facility to lead him into languor, and lacked passion. Michelangelo's
work shows none of these shortcomings; it is always technically faultness, instinct with passion,
supereminent in force. But we crave more of grace, of sensuous delight, of sweetness, than
he chose, or perhaps was able, to communicate. We should welcome a little more of human weakness
if he gave a little more of divine suavity.

Michelangelo's style of design is that of a sculptor, Andrea's of a colourist, Lionardo's of
a curious student, Raffaello's of a musician and improvisatore. These distinctions are not
merely fanciful, nor based on what we know about the men in their careers. We feel similar
distinctions in the case of all great draughtsmen. Titian's chalk-studies, Fra Bartolommeo's,
so singularly akin to Andrea del Sarto's, Giorgione's pen-and-ink sketch for a Lucretia, are
seen at once by their richness and blurred outlines to be the work of colourists. Signorelli's
transcripts from the nude, remarkably similar to those of Michelangelo, reveal a sculptor rather
than a painter. Botticelli, with all his Florentine precision, shows that, like Lionardo, he
was a seeker and a visionary in his anxious feeling after curve and attitude. Mantegna seems
to be graving steel or cutting into marble. It is easy to apply this analysis in succession
to any draughtsman who has style. To do so would, however, be superfluous: we should only be
enforcing what is a truism to all intelligent students of art--namely, that each individual
stamps his own specific quality upon his handiwork; reveals even in the neutral region of design
his innate preference for colour or pure form as a channel of expression; betrays the predominance
of mental energy or sensuous charm, of scientific curiosity or plastic force, of passion or
of tenderness, which controls his nature. This inevitable and unconscious revelation of the
man in art-work strikes us as being singularly modern. We do not apprehend it to at all the
same extent in the sculpture of the ancients, whether it be that our sympathies are too remote
from Greek and Roman ways of feeling, or whether the ancients really conceived art more collectively
in masses, less individually as persons.

No master exhibits this peculiarly modern quality more decisively than Michelangelo, and nowhere
is the personality of his genius, what marks him off and separates him from all fellow-men,
displayed with fuller emphasis than in his drawings. To use the words of a penetrative critic,
from whom it is a pleasure to quote: "The thing about Michelangelo is this; he is not, so to
say, at the head of a class, but he stands apart by himself: he is not possessed of a skill
which renders him unapproached or unapproachable; but rather, he is of so unique an order,
that no other artist whatever seems to suggest comparison with him." Mr. Selwyn Image goes
on to define in what a true sense the words "creator" and "creative" may be applied to him:
how the shows and appearances of the world were for him but hieroglyphs of underlying ideas,
with which his soul was familiar, and from which he worked again outward; "his learning and
skill in the arts supplying to his hand such large and adequate symbols of them as are otherwise
beyond attainment." This, in a very difficult and impalpable region of aesthetic criticism,
is finely said, and accords with Michelangelo's own utterances upon art and beauty in his poems.
Dwelling like a star apart, communing with the eternal ideas, the permanent relations of the
universe, uttering his inmost thoughts about these mysteries through the vehicles of science
and of art, for which he was so singularly gifted, Michelangelo, in no loose or trivial sense
of that phrase, proved himself to be a creator. He introduces us to a world seen by no eyes
except his own, compels us to become familiar with forms unapprehended by our senses, accustoms
us to breathe a rarer and more fiery atmosphere than we were born into.

The vehicles used by Michelangelo in his designs were mostly pen and chalk. He employed both
a sharp-nibbed pen of some kind, and a broad flexible reed, according to the exigencies of
his subject or the temper of his mood. The chalk was either red or black, the former being
softer than the latter. I cannot remember any instances of those chiaroscuro washes which Raffaello
handled in so masterly a manner, although Michelangelo frequently combined bistre shading with
pen outlines. In like manner he does not seem to have favoured the metal point upon prepared
paper, with which Lionardo produced unrivalled masterpieces. Some drawings, where the yellow
outline bites into a parchment paper, blistering at the edges, suggest a rusty metal in the
instrument. We must remember, however, that the inks of that period were frequently corrosive,
as is proved by the state of many documents now made illegible through the gradual attrition
of the paper by mineral acids. It is also not impossible that artists may have already invented
what we call steel pens. Sarpi, in the seventeenth century, thanks a correspondent for the
gift of one of these mechanical devices. Speaking broadly, the reed and the quill, red and
black chalk, or matita, were the vehicles of Michelangelo's expression as a draughtsman. I
have seen very few examples of studies heightened with white chalk, and none produced in the
fine Florentine style of Ghirlandajo by white chalk alone upon a dead-brown surface. In this
matter it is needful to speak with diffidence; for the sketches of our master are so widely
scattered that few students can have examined the whole of them; and photographic reproductions,
however admirable in their fidelity to outline, do not always give decisive evidence regarding
the materials employed.

One thing seems manifest. Michelangelo avoided those mixed methods with which Lionardo, the
magician, wrought wonders. He preferred an instrument which could be freely, broadly handled,
inscribing form in strong plain strokes upon the candid paper. The result attained, whether
wrought by bold lines, or subtly hatched, or finished with the utmost delicacy of modulated
shading, has always been traced out conscientiously and firmly, with one pointed stylus (pen,
chalk, or matita), chosen for the purpose. As I have said, it is the work of a sculptor, accustomed
to wield chisel and mallet upon marble, rather than that of a painter, trained to secure effects
by shadows and glazings.

It is possible, I think, to define, at least with some approximation to precision, Michelangelo's
employment of his favourite vehicles for several purposes and at different periods of his life.
A broad-nibbed pen was used almost invariably in making architectural designs of cornices,
pilasters, windows, also in plans for military engineering. Sketches of tombs and edifices,
intended to be shown to patrons, were partly finished with the pen; and here we find a subordinate
and very limited use of the brush in shading. Such performances may be regarded as products
of the workshop rather than as examples of the artist's mastery. The style of them is often
conventional, suggesting the intrusion of a pupil or the deliberate adoption of an office mannerism.
The pen plays a foremost part in all the greatest and most genial creations of his fancy when
it worked energetically in preparation for sculpture or for fresco. The Louvre is rich in masterpieces
of this kind--the fiery study of a David; the heroic figures of two male nudes, hatched into
stubborn salience like pieces of carved wood; the broad conception of the Madonna at S. Lorenzo
in her magnificent repose and passionate cascade of fallen draperies; the repulsive but superabundantly
powerful profile of a goat-like faun. These, and the stupendous studies of the Albertina Collection
at Vienna, including the supine man with thorax violently raised, are worked with careful hatchings,
stroke upon stroke, effecting a suggestion of plastic roundness. But we discover quite a different
use of the pen in some large simple outlines of seated female figures at the Louvre; in thick,
almost muddy, studies at Vienna, where the form emerges out of oft-repeated sodden blotches;
in the grim light and shade, the rapid suggestiveness of the dissection scene at Oxford. The
pen in the hand of Michelangelo was the tool by means of which he realised his most trenchant
conceptions and his most picturesque impressions. In youth and early manhood, when his genius
was still vehement, it seems to have been his favourite vehicle.

The use of chalk grew upon him in later life, possibly because he trusted more to his memory
now, and loved the dreamier softer medium for uttering his fancies. Black chalk was employed
for rapid notes of composition, and also for the more elaborate productions of his pencil.
To this material we owe the head of Horror which he gave to Gherardo Perini (in the Uffizi),
the Phaethon, the Tityos, the Ganymede he gave to Tommaso Cavalieri (at Windsor). It is impossible
to describe the refinements of modulated shading and the precision of predetermined outlines
by means of which these incomparable drawings have been produced. They seem to melt and to
escape inspection, yet they remain fixed on the memory as firmly as forms in carven basalt.

The whole series of designs for Christ's Crucifixion and Deposition from the Cross are executed
in chalk, sometimes black, but mostly red. It is manifest, upon examination, that they are
not studies from the model, but thoughts evoked and shadowed forth on paper. Their perplexing
multiplicity and subtle variety--as though a mighty improvisatore were preluding again and
yet again upon the clavichord to find his theme, abandoning the search, renewing it, altering
the key, changing the accent--prove that this continued seeking with the crayon after form
and composition was carried on in solitude and abstract moments. Incomplete as the designs
may be, they reveal Michelangelo's loftiest dreams and purest visions. The nervous energy,
the passionate grip upon the subject, shown in the pen-drawings, are absent here. These qualities
are replaced by meditation and an air of rapt devotion. The drawings for the Passion might
be called the prayers and pious thoughts of the stern master.

Red chalk he used for some of his most brilliant conceptions. It is not necessary to dwell
upon the bending woman's head at Oxford, or the torso of the lance-bearer at Vienna. Let us
confine our attention to what is perhaps the most pleasing and most perfect of all Michelangelo's
designs--the "Bersaglio," or the "Arcieri," in the Queen's collection at Windsor.

It is a group of eleven naked men and one woman, fiercely footing the air, and driving shafts
with all their might to pierce a classical terminal figure, whose face, like that of Pallas,
and broad breast are guarded by a spreading shield. The draughtsman has indicated only one
bow, bent with fury by an old man in the background. Yet all the actions proper to archery
are suggested by the violent gestures and strained sinews of the crowd. At the foot of the
terminal statue, Cupid lies asleep upon his wings, with idle bow and quiver. Two little genii
of love, in the background, are lighting up a fire, puffing its flames, as though to drive
the archers onward. Energy and ardour, impetuous movement and passionate desire, could not
be expressed with greater force, nor the tyranny of some blind impulse be more imaginatively
felt. The allegory seems to imply that happiness is not to be attained, as human beings mostly
strive to seize it, by the fierce force of the carnal passions. It is the contrast between
celestial love asleep in lustful souls, and vulgar love inflaming tyrannous appetites:--

  The one love soars, the other downward tends;
    The soul lights this, while that the senses stir,
    And still lust's arrow at base quarry flies.

This magnificent design was engraved during Buonarroti's lifetime, or shortly afterwards, by
Niccolò Beatrizet. Some follower of Raffaello used the print for a fresco in the Palazzo Borghese
at Rome. It forms one of the series in which Raffaello's marriage of Alexander and Roxana is
painted. This has led some critics to ascribe the drawing itself to the Urbinate. Indeed, at
first sight, one might almost conjecture that the original chalk study was a genuine work of
Raffaello, aiming at rivalry with Michelangelo's manner. The calm beauty of the statue's classic
profile, the refinement of all the faces, the exquisite delicacy of the adolescent forms, and
the dominant veiling of strength with grace, are not precisely Michelangelesque. The technical
execution of the design, however, makes its attribution certain. Well as Raffaello could draw,
he could not draw like this. He was incapable of rounding and modelling the nude with those
soft stipplings and granulated shadings which bring the whole surface out like that of a bas-relief
in polished marble. His own drawing for Alexander and Roxana, in red chalk, and therefore an
excellent subject for comparison with the Arcieri, is hatched all over in straight lines; a
method adopted by Michelangelo when working with the pen, but, so far as I am aware, never,
or very rarely, used when he was handling chalk. The style of this design and its exquisite
workmanship correspond exactly with the finish of the Cavalieri series at Windsor. The paper,
moreover, is indorsed in Michelangelo's handwriting with a memorandum bearing the date April
12, 1530. We have then in this masterpiece of draughtsmanship an example, not of Raffaello
in a Michelangelising mood, but of Michelangelo for once condescending to surpass Raffaello
on his own ground of loveliness and rhythmic grace.

CHAPTER VII

I

Julius died upon the 21st of February 1513. "A prince," says Guicciardini, "of inestimable
courage and tenacity, but headlong, and so extravagant in the schemes he formed, that his own
prudence and moderation had less to do with shielding him from ruin than the discord of sovereigns
and the circumstances of the times in Europe: worthy, in all truth, of the highest glory had
he been a secular potentate, or if the pains and anxious thought he employed in augmenting
the temporal greatness of the Church by war had been devoted to her spiritual welfare in the
arts of peace."

Italy rejoiced when Giovanni de' Medici was selected to succeed him, with the title of Leo
X. "Venus ruled in Rome with Alexander, Mars with Julius, now Pallas enters on her reign with
Leo." Such was the tenor of the epigrams which greeted Leo upon his triumphal progress to the
Lateran. It was felt that a Pope of the house of Medici would be a patron of arts and letters,
and it was hoped that the son of Lorenzo the Magnificent might restore the equilibrium of power
in Italy. Leo X. has enjoyed a greater fame than he deserved. Extolled as an Augustus in his
lifetime, he left his name to what is called the golden age of Italian culture. Yet he cannot
be said to have raised any first-rate men of genius, or to have exercised a very wise patronage
over those whom Julius brought forward. Michelangelo and Raffaello were in the full swing of
work when Leo claimed their services. We shall see how he hampered the rare gifts of the former
by employing him on uncongenial labours; and it was no great merit to give a free rein to the
inexhaustible energy of Raffaello. The project of a new S. Peter's belonged to Julius. Leo
only continued the scheme, using such assistants as the times provided after Bramante's death
in 1514. Julius instinctively selected men of soaring and audacious genius, who were capable
of planning on a colossal scale. Leo delighted in the society of clever people, poetasters,
petty scholars, lutists, and buffoons. Rome owes no monumental work to his inventive brain,
and literature no masterpiece to his discrimination. Ariosto, the most brilliant poet of the
Renaissance, returned in disappointment from the Vatican. "When I went to Rome and kissed the
foot of Leo," writes the ironical satirist, "he bent down from the holy chair, and took my
hand and saluted me on both cheeks. Besides, he made me free of half the stamp-dues I was bound
to pay; and then, breast full of hope, but smirched with mud, I retired and took my supper
at the Ram."

The words which Leo is reported to have spoken to his brother Giuliano when he heard the news
of his election, express the character of the man and mark the difference between his ambition
and that of Julius. "Let us enjoy the Papacy, since God has given it us." To enjoy life, to
squander the treasures of the Church on amusements, to feed a rabble of flatterers, to contract
enormous debts, and to disturb the peace of Italy, not for some vast scheme of ecclesiastical
aggrandisement, but in order to place the princes of his family on thrones, that was Leo's
conception of the Papal privileges and duties. The portraits of the two Popes, both from the
hand of Raffaello, are eminently characteristic. Julius, bent, white-haired, and emaciated,
has the nervous glance of a passionate and energetic temperament. Leo, heavy-jawed, dull-eyed,
with thick lips and a brawny jowl, betrays the coarser fibre of a sensualist.

II

We have seen already that Julius, before his death, provided for his monument being carried
out upon a reduced scale. Michelangelo entered into a new contract with the executors, undertaking
to finish the work within the space of seven years from the date of the deed, May 6, 1513.
He received in several payments, during that year and the years 1514, 1515, 1516, the total
sum of 6100 golden ducats. This proves that he must have pushed the various operations connected
with the tomb vigorously forward, employing numerous workpeople, and ordering supplies of marble.
In fact, the greater part of what remains to us of the unfinished monument may be ascribed
to this period of comparatively uninterrupted labour. Michelangelo had his workshop in the
Macello de' Corvi, but we know very little about the details of his life there. His correspondence
happens to be singularly scanty between the years 1513 and 1516. One letter, however, written
in May 1518, to the Capitano of Cortona throws a ray of light upon this barren tract of time,
and introduces an artist of eminence, whose intellectual affinity to Michelangelo will always
remain a matter of interest. "While I was at Rome, in the first year of Pope Leo, there came
the Master Luca Signorelli of Cortona, painter. I met him one day near Monte Giordano, and
he told me that he was come to beg something from the Pope, I forget what: he had run the risk
of losing life and limb for his devotion to the house of Medici, and now it seemed they did
not recognise him: and so forth, saying many things I have forgotten. After these discourses,
he asked me for forty giulios [a coin equal in value to the more modern paolo, and worth perhaps
eight shillings of present money], and told me where to send them to, at the house of a shoemaker,
his lodgings. I not having the money about me, promised to send it, and did so by the hand
of a young man in my service, called Silvio, who is still alive and in Rome, I believe. After
the lapse of some days, perhaps because his business with the Pope had failed, Messer Luca
came to my house in the Macello de' Corvi, the same where I live now, and found me working
on a marble statue, four cubits in height, which has the hands bound behind the back, and bewailed
himself with me, and begged another forty, saying that he wanted to leave Rome. I went up to
my bedroom, and brought the money down in the presence of a Bolognese maid I kept, and I think
the Silvio above mentioned was also there. When Luca got the cash, he went away, and I have
never seen him since; but I remember complaining to him, because I was out of health and could
not work, and he said: 'Have no fear, for the angels from heaven will come to take you in their
arms and aid you.'" This is in several ways an interesting document. It brings vividly before
our eyes magnificent expensive Signorelli and his meanly living comrade, each of them mighty
masters of a terrible and noble style, passionate lovers of the nude, devoted to masculine
types of beauty, but widely and profoundly severed by differences in their personal tastes
and habits. It also gives us a glimpse into Michelangelo's workshop at the moment when he was
blocking out one of the bound Captives at the Louvre. It seems from what follows in the letter
that Michelangelo had attempted to recover the money through his brother Buonarroto, but that
Signorelli refused to acknowledge his debt. The Capitano wrote that he was sure it had been
discharged. "That," adds Michelangelo, "is the same as calling me the biggest blackguard; and
so I should be, if I wanted to get back what had been already paid. But let your Lordship think
what you like about it, I am bound to get the money, and so I swear." The remainder of the
autograph is torn and illegible; it seems to wind up with a threat.

The records of this period are so scanty that every detail acquires a certain importance for
Michelangelo's biographer. By a deed executed on the 14th of June 1514, we find that he contracted
to make a figure of Christ in marble, "life-sized, naked, erect, with a cross in his arms,
and in such attitude as shall seem best to Michelangelo." The persons who ordered the statue
were Bernardo Cencio (a Canon of S. Peter's), Mario Scappucci, and Metello Varj dei Porcari,
a Roman of ancient blood. They undertook to pay 200 golden ducats for the work; and Michelangelo
promised to finish it within the space of four years, when it was to be placed in the Church
of S. Maria sopra Minerva. Metello Varj, though mentioned last in the contract, seems to have
been the man who practically gave the commission, and to whom Michelangelo was finally responsible
for its performance. He began to hew it from a block, and discovered black veins in the working.
This, then, was thrown aside, and a new marble had to be attacked. The statue, now visible
at the Minerva, was not finished until the year 1521, when we shall have to return to it again.

There is a point of some interest in the wording of this contract, on which, as facts to dwell
upon are few and far between at present, I may perhaps allow myself to digress. The master
is here described as Michelangelo (di Lodovico) Simoni, Scultore. Now Michelangelo always signed
his own letters Michelangelo Buonarroti, although he addressed the members of his family by
the surname of Simoni. This proves that the patronymic usually given to the house at large
was still Simoni, and that Michelangelo himself acknowledged that name in a legal document.
The adoption of Buonarroti by his brother's children and descendants may therefore be ascribed
to usage ensuing from the illustration of their race by so renowned a man. It should also be
observed that at this time Michelangelo is always described in deeds as sculptor, and that
he frequently signs with Michelangelo, Scultore. Later on in life he changed his views. He
wrote in 1548 to his nephew Lionardo: "Tell the priest not to write to me again as Michelangelo
the sculptor, for I am not known here except as Michelangelo Buonarroti. Say, too, that if
a citizen of Florence wants to have an altar-piece painted, he must find some painter; for
I was never either sculptor or painter in the way of one who keeps a shop. I have always avoided
that, for the honour of my father and my brothers. True, I have served three Popes; but that
was a matter of necessity." Earlier, in 1543, he had written to the same effect: "When you
correspond with me, do not use the superscription Michelangelo Simoni, nor sculptor; it is
enough to put Michelangelo Buonarroti, for that is how I am known here." On another occasion,
advising his nephew what surname the latter ought to adopt, he says: "I should certainly use
Simoni, and if the whole (that is, the whole list of patronymics in use at Florence) is too
long, those who cannot read it may leave it alone." These communications prove that, though
he had come to be known as Buonarroti, he did not wish the family to drop their old surname
of Simoni. The reason was that he believed in their legendary descent from the Counts of Canossa
through a Podestà of Florence, traditionally known as Simone da Canossa. This opinion had been
confirmed in 1520, as we have seen above, by a letter he received from the Conte Alessandro
da Canossa, addressing him as "Honoured kinsman." In the correspondence with Lionardo, Michelangelo
alludes to this act of recognition: "You will find a letter from the Conte Alessandro da Canossa
in the book of contracts. He came to visit me at Rome, and treated me like a relative. Take
care of it." The dislike expressed by Michelangelo to be called sculptor, and addressed upon
the same terms as other artists, arose from a keen sense of his nobility. The feeling emerges
frequently in his letters between 1540 and 1550. I will give a specimen: "As to the purchase
of a house, I repeat that you ought to buy one of honourable condition, at 1500 or 2000 crowns;
and it ought to be in our quarter (Santa Croce), if possible. I say this, because an honourable
mansion in the city does a family great credit. It makes more impression than farms in the
country; and we are truly burghers, who claim a very noble ancestry. I always strove my utmost
to resuscitate our house, but I had not brothers able to assist me. Try then to do what I write
you, and make Gismondo come back to live in Florence, so that I may not endure the shame of
hearing it said here that I have a brother at Settignano who trudges after oxen. One day, when
I find the time, I will tell you all about our origin, and whence we sprang, and when we came
to Florence. Perhaps you know nothing about it; still we ought not to rob ourselves of what
God gave us." The same feeling runs through the letters he wrote Lionardo about the choice
of a wife. One example will suffice: "I believe that in Florence there are many noble and poor
families with whom it would be a charity to form connections. If there were no dower, there
would also be no arrogance. Pay no heed should people say you want to ennoble yourself, since
it is notorious that we are ancient citizens of Florence, and as noble as any other house."

Michelangelo, as we know now, was mistaken in accepting his supposed connection with the illustrious
Counts of Canossa, whose castle played so conspicuous a part in the struggle between Hildebrand
and the Empire, and who were imperially allied through the connections of the Countess Matilda.
Still he had tradition to support him, confirmed by the assurance of the head of the Canossa
family. Nobody could accuse him of being a snob or parvenu. He lived like a poor man, indifferent
to dress, establishment, and personal appearances. Yet he prided himself upon his ancient birth;
and since the Simoni had been indubitably noble for several generations, there was nothing
despicable in his desire to raise his kinsfolk to their proper station. Almost culpably careless
in all things that concerned his health and comfort, he spent his earnings for the welfare
of his brothers, in order that an honourable posterity might carry on the name he bore, and
which he made illustrious. We may smile at his peevishness in repudiating the title of sculptor
after bearing it through so many years of glorious labour; but when he penned the letters I
have quoted, he was the supreme artist of Italy, renowned as painter, architect, military engineer;
praised as a poet; befriended with the best and greatest of his contemporaries; recognised
as unique, not only in the art of sculpture. If he felt some pride of race, we cannot blame
the plain-liver and high-thinker, who, robbing himself of luxuries and necessaries even, enabled
his kinsmen to maintain their rank among folk gently born and nobly nurtured.

III

In June 1515 Michelangelo was still working at the tomb of Julius. But a letter to Buonarroto
shows that he was already afraid of being absorbed for other purposes by Leo: "I am forced
to put great strain upon myself this summer in order to complete my undertaking; for I think
that I shall soon be obliged to enter the Pope's service. For this reason, I have bought some
twenty migliaia [measure of weight] of brass to cast certain figures." The monument then was
so far advanced that, beside having a good number of the marble statues nearly finished, he
was on the point of executing the bronze reliefs which filled their interspaces. We have also
reason to believe that the architectural basis forming the foundation of the sepulchre had
been brought well forward, since it is mentioned, in the next ensuing contracts.

Just at this point, however, when two or three years of steady labour would have sufficed to
terminate this mount of sculptured marble, Leo diverted Michelangelo's energies from the work,
and wasted them in schemes that came to nothing. When Buonarroti penned that sonnet in which
he called the Pope his Medusa, he might well have been thinking of Leo, though the poem ought
probably to be referred to the earlier pontificate of Julius. Certainly the Medici did more
than the Delia Rovere to paralyse his power and turn the life within him into stone. Writing
to Sebastiano del Piombo in 1521, Michelangelo shows how fully he was aware of this. He speaks
of "the three years I have lost."

A meeting had been arranged for the late autumn of 1515 between Leo X. and Francis I. at Bologna.
The Pope left Rome early in November, and reached Florence on the 30th. The whole city burst
into a tumult of jubilation, shouting the Medicean cry of "Palle" as Leo passed slowly through
the streets, raised in his pontifical chair upon the shoulders of his running footmen. Buonarroto
wrote a long and interesting account of this triumphal entry to his brother in Rome. He describes
how a procession was formed by the Pope's court and guard and the gentlemen of Florence. "Among
the rest, there went a bevy of young men, the noblest in our commonwealth, all dressed alike
with doublets of violet satin, holding gilded staves in their hands. They paced before the
Papal chair, a brave sight to see. And first there marched his guard, and then his grooms,
who carried him aloft beneath a rich canopy of brocade, which was sustained by members of the
College, while round about the chair walked the Signory." The procession moved onward to the
Church of S. Maria del Fiore, where the Pope stayed to perform certain ceremonies at the high
altar, after which he was carried to his apartments at S. Maria Novella. Buonarroto was one
of the Priors during this month, and accordingly he took an official part in all the entertainments
and festivities, which continued for three days. On the 3rd of December Leo left Florence for
Bologna, where Francis arrived upon the 11th. Their conference lasted till the 15th, when Francis
returned to Milan. On the 18th Leo began his journey back to Florence, which he re-entered
on the 22nd. On Christmas day (Buonarroto writes Pasgua) a grand Mass was celebrated at S.
Maria Novella, at which the Signory attended. The Pope celebrated in person, and, according
to custom on high state occasions, the water with which he washed his hands before and during
the ceremony had to be presented by personages of importance. "This duty," says Buonarroto,
"fell first to one of the Signori, who was Giannozzo Salviati; and as I happened that morning
to be Proposto, I went the second time to offer water to his Holiness; the third time, this
was done by the Duke of Camerino, and the fourth time by the Gonfalonier of Justice." Buonarroto
remarks that "he feels pretty certain it will be all the same to Michelangelo whether he hears
or does not hear about these matters. Yet, from time to time, when I have leisure, I scribble
a few lines."

Buonarroto himself was interested in this event; for, having been one of the Priors, he received
from Leo the title of Count Palatine, with reversion to all his posterity. Moreover, for honourable
addition to his arms, he was allowed to bear a chief charged with the Medicean ball and fleur-de-lys,
between the capital letters L. and X.

Whether Leo conceived the plan of finishing the façade of S. Lorenzo at Florence before he
left Rome, or whether it occurred to him during this visit, is not certain. The church had
been erected by the Medici and other magnates from Brunelleschi's designs, and was perfect
except for the façade. In its sacristy lay the mortal remains of Cosimo, Lorenzo the Magnificent,
and many other members of the Medicean family. Here Leo came on the first Sunday in Advent
to offer up prayers, and the Pope is said to have wept upon his father's tomb. It may possibly
have been on this occasion that he adopted the scheme so fatal to the happiness of the great
sculptor. Condivi clearly did not know what led to Michelangelo's employment on the façade
of S. Lorenzo, and Vasari's account of the transaction is involved. Both, however, assert that
he was wounded, even to tears, at having to abandon the monument of Julius, and that he prayed
in vain to be relieved of the new and uncongenial task.

IV

Leo at first intended to divide the work between several masters, giving Buonarroti the general
direction of the whole. He ordered Giuliano da San Gallo, Raffaello da Urbino, Baccio d'Agnolo,
Andrea and Jacopo Sansovino to prepare plans. While these were in progress, Michelangelo also
thought that he would try his hand at a design. As ill-luck ruled, Leo preferred his sketch
to all the rest. Vasari adds that his unwillingness to be associated with any other artist
in the undertaking, and his refusal to follow the plans of an architect, prevented the work
from being executed, and caused the men selected by Leo to return in desperation to their ordinary
pursuits. There may be truth in the report; for it is certain that, after Michelangelo had
been forced to leave the tomb of Julius and to take part in the façade, he must have claimed
to be sole master of the business. The one thing we know about his mode of operation is, that
he brooked no rival near him, mistrusted collaborators, and found it difficult to co-operate
even with the drudges whom he hired at monthly wages.

Light is thrown upon these dissensions between Michelangelo and his proposed assistants by
a letter which Jacopo Sansovino wrote to him at Carrara, on the 30th of June 1517. He betrays
his animus at the commencement by praising Baccio Bandinelli, to mention whom in the same breath
with Buonarroti was an insult. Then he proceeds: "The Pope, the Cardinal, and Jacopo Salviati
are men who when they say yes, it is a written contract, inasmuch as they are true to their
word, and not what you pretend them to be. You measure them with your own rod; for neither
contracts nor plighted troth avail with you, who are always saying nay and yea, according as
you think it profitable. I must inform you, too, that the Pope promised me the sculptures,
and so did Salviati; and they are men who will maintain me in my right to them. In what concerns
you, I have done all I could to promote your interests and honour, not having earlier perceived
that you never conferred a benefit on any one, and that, beginning with myself, to expect kindness
from you, would be the same as wanting water not to wet. I have reason for what I say, since
we have often met together in familiar converse, and may the day be cursed on which you ever
said any good about anybody on earth." How Michelangelo answered this intemperate and unjust
invective is not known to us. In some way or other the quarrel between the two sculptors must
have been made up--probably through a frank apology on Sansovino's part. When Michelangelo,
in 1524, supplied the Duke of Sessa with a sketch for the sepulchral monument to be erected
for himself and his wife, he suggested that Sansovino should execute the work, proving thus
by acts how undeserved the latter's hasty words had been.

