PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI

VOL. 103

OCTOBER 1, 1892

"STUMPED!"

(A WOULD-BE LAUDATORY ODE. BY JINGLE JUNIOR.)

    [The young Indian Gentleman, Mr. H. RANJITSINHJI, has "secured
    his century" at Cricket no less than eleven times this
    season.]

  O H.S. RANJIT--(spelling a wild venture is!)
  Wielder of willow, runner-up of "centuries"!
  What's in a name? A name like RANJITSIN--
  (Can't finish it, was foolish to begin!)
  How many miles was it you ran, O RAN--
  (Bowled out again. Am sorry I began!)
  In running out those hundreds, RANJITSINGHJ--
  (A man were a patched fool, a perfect ninny,
  Who'd try to spell that name, Ask Bully Bottom!)
  With such a name to carry, how you got 'em,
  O RANJ--(that sounds like Orange!)--those same "notches"
  Is quite a wonder. Were they "bowls" or "cotches"
  That got you out at last, those times eleven?
  (Where is GRACE now? He has not scored one even,
  This season, though as close as ninety-nine to it.)
  Applause has greeted you; let me add mine to it,
  O RAN-JIT-SIN-HJI! (Those last three letters
  What do they spell?) Orthography's cold fetters
  Shan't chill my admiration, smart young Hindoo!
  Say, did you smite a sixer through a window,
  Like Slogger THORNTON in his boyish prime,
  O RANJITSINHJI? Got it this time!
  That is, it spelt all right. E'en admiration
  Shan't tempt me to attempt pronunciation!
  Eleven centuries we to Indian skill owe!
  Will the East lick the West at its own "Willow?"
  Here's luck to India and young RAN--Och, murther!
  RAN-JIT-SIN-SIN--How's that! Out? Can't get further!
       *       *       *       *       *

"OH NO, WE NEVER MENTION IT."--The KENDALS have got a Play by a young American Author with
the very uncompromising name of DAM. He, or his Play, may be Dam good, or just the reverse:
still, if he does turn out to be the "big, big D," then all the Dam family, such as Amsterdam,
Rotterdam, Schiedam, and so forth, will be real proud of him. Future Dams will revere him as
their worthy ancestral sire, and American Dam may become naturalised among us (we have a lot
of English ones quite a spécialité in that line, so the French say), and become Dam-nationalised.
What fame if the piece is successful, and DAM is on every tongue! So will it be too, if unsuccessful.
Englishmen will welcome the new American playright with the name unmentionable to ears polite,
and will recognise in him, as the Dam par excellence, their brother, as one of the uncommon
descendants of A-DAM. By the way, the appropriate night for its production would be Christmas
Eve. Fancy the cries all over the House, calling for the successful Author!!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"PUNSCH"

(IN THE READING-ROOM OF THE BERNERHOF.)

  Although thy name is wrongly spelt
  Upon thy case, what joy I felt
  To find a place where thou hast dwelt,
            My Punsch!

  Yet wit and wisdom, even thine,
  Can't wake up Berne, where folks supine
  All go to bed at half-past nine,
            My Punsch!

  What art or jokes could entertain,
  Such sleepy people? True, they feign
  It's later, for they say "halb zehn,"
            My Punsch!

  My German "Punsch," what gender thine?
  They who accept, likewise decline,
  "Das Weib" might feminine assign--
            Die Punsch!

  No matter which, if I behold
  Thy pages, worth their weight in gold--
  It's true they're more than three weeks old,
            My Punsch!

       *       *       *       *       *

AN ODD FELLOW OUT.--The Church-breaking thief (vide the Standard's provincial news) who was
arrested at Oswestry (fitting that a Church-thief should have been arrested by Os-Westry-men--which
sounds like a body of mounted ecclesiastical police), explained that he was a "monumental mason
of Dublin." Perhaps the Jury will find him monu-mentally deranged.

       *       *       *       *       *

HEALTH AND HOPPINESS.

    [It is reported that the latest move is for ladies to combine
    profit and pleasure by going "hopping."]

  Fair Woman longs for novelty,
    Her daily task is apt to cloy her,
  The pastimes that were wont to be
    Diverting now do but annoy her.
  The common joys of life are spent
    So tired of tennis, shooting, shopping,
  She turns in her despair to Kent,
    And tries her 'prentice hand at hopping.

  Now girls whom you would scarce believe
    Would not turn up their nose at soiling
  Their dainty hands, to dewy eve
    From early morn keep ever toiling.
  There's ETHEL of the golden hair
    Who flutters through existence gaily
  (Her father is a millionnaire),
    Hops hard and does her twelve hours daily.

  Then pretty MAUD, with laughing eyes,
    Who hardly knew what daily wage meant,
  To everybody's great surprise
    Proceeds to cut this, that engagement.
  Amid the vines she daily goes,
    And picks till weary fingers tingle,
  The sweetest music now she knows
    Is hearing hard-earned sovereigns jingle.

  This latest move, it's very true,
    Appears to be a rather rum thing,
  But yet for idle hands to do
    We know that Someone will find something.
  Will fashionable hopping last?
    Well, this it's safe to lay your cash on,
  Before another year has passed
    There'll be another female fashion.

       *       *       *       *       *

VIVE LA RAIN DU BALLET À L'ALHAMBRA!--"Certainly," says MR. JOHN HOLLINGSHEAD, "Ve've la rain.
It comes pouring down on the stage, and the people come pouring in to see it. I suppose," says
he, "they'll now call me 'The Wetter'un?" The ballet is very effective, not a drop too much,
and "not a drop in the business" in front of the house, though there is, as is evident, on
the stage. If Manager JOHN liked to quote SHAKSPEARE with a difference, in his advertisements,
he might say, "With a hey, ho, the Wind and the Rain! For the Rain it raineth every night!"
For some time to come this show will be the raining favourite at the Alhambra. By the way,
the Sheffield Telegraph, describing the alterations and improvements in front at the Alhambra,
wrote--"The ceiling has been bevelled with porous plasters so as to hide the girders." We know
that hand:--it's Our "Mrs. RAMSBOTHAM," and she "comes from Sheffield." However, "porous plasters"
would be another attraction at the Alhambra, or anywhere, as they certainly ought to draw.
Of course this made all the difference to the horse I selected--Windgall--who finished second;--as
he only gives his best performances in public, and as he doubtless knew he couldn't be seen,
he thought it was only a private trial until he got close home, when his gallant effort was
too late to be of any use!--at least, this is how I read the result of the race, and who can
know more about a horse than the racing-prophet, I should like to know?

I was told by Sir WALTER GREENINGTON, that the public "tumbled over each other" to back Breach,
but I must say I didn't notice anything of the sort, and it was not the kind of day anyone
would choose for a roll on the turf, the state of which was detrimental to any kind of Breach!--The
believers in "coincidences"--(of which I need hardly say I am one--a coincidence being a truly
feminine reason for backing a horse)--had no option but to back the winner, Rusticus; as he
drew the same berth he occupied in last year's race, which he alsop--(I mean also)--won for
Mr. HAMAR BASS!--Stuart was a great eleventh hour tip--(why eleventh hour I wonder?--more than
any other--and who fixes the precise moment when the eleventh hour commences?)--but history
tells us the STUARTS were mostly unreliable; and though I am told he ran a "great horse"--I
thought him rather on the small side myself!

