This is a tall-growing and distinct species, newly imported from Japan; it is perfectly hardy
and herbaceous, and differs very much indeed from its creeping and evergreen relation, the
moneywort, or "creeping jenny," being more like a tall speedwell, having large leaves; it is
so dissimilar, there can be no likelihood of confounding it with other species. As a decorative
garden plant it is both attractive and interesting.

It attains a height of 3ft. in favourable quarters, and has both a wealth of rich foliage and
showy one-sided spikes of white flowers; the latter are neatly formed and continue to develop
along the spike for the length of a foot; the flowers are ½in. across, somewhat star-shaped,
having five, and sometimes six, divisions of the corolla, which are oval and cupped; the short
flower stalk is supported by a very narrow bracteole of equal length--this helps not a little
to enrich the yet unblossomed part of the spike, the buds of which are of the purest whiteness
and pearl-shape, mounted in the claw-like setting of the pale green calyx; these pleasing spikes
of flowers and buds have a peculiar habit of bending; the unbloomed part is at right angles
with the erect stem, with the exception of the tip, which slightly erects itself; the angle
is ever changing, being ruled by the change of flower to seed, the development causing the
sharp bend to rise day by day. The leaves of the root are spoon-shaped, and those of the stems
broadly lance-shaped, varying in length from 3in. to 5in., entire, veined, of good substance,
and having attenuated stalks; the younger leaves have a changeable satiny hue; all the leaves
at their junction with the stems are marked with a bright redness; the main stems are furnished
with many side branches, which assist in maintaining floriferousness until late autumn. The
habit of the plant is dense, and from the numerous spikes of flowers and bright green foliage
strong specimens have a commendable appearance; with me, the growth has been remarkably vigorous,
exceeding by nearly a foot the usual height; this I attribute to the enrichment of the soil.
The bent spikes are scarcely suitable for cutting purposes, but that the plant is deserving
of a place in the borders may fairly be inferred from the manner in which it wins admiration
when in flower. It enjoys deep loam, which, as before hinted, should be rich; the situation
should be such as will afford it protection from the winds--then, if its leaves remain untorn,
they will afford a treat from their "autumnal tints." Propagated by root division during late
autumn or early spring.

Flowering period, July to September.

Margyricarpus Setosus.

BRISTLY PEARL-FRUIT; Nat. Ord. ROSACEÆ.

A charming little evergreen shrub, and most aptly named, for not only does the name convey
some idea of its beauty, but it is specific to the utmost degree; a glance at the illustration
(Fig. 62) and the English name, which is a translation of the Latin one, will show this. It
is the only species of the genus. It was introduced in the year 1829 from Peru, and for a time
was considered too tender a subject for other than stove treatment, and even now it is treated
as a shrub needing protection; but warm as is its native climate, it proves hardy in ours;
it is not merely a safe subject to winter out under special conditions, but quite hardy in
fully exposed parts. It stood out with me in the winters of 1879-80 and 1880-1, and in 1881-2,
which, however, was specially mild, it held its berries until spring. Its evergreen character
renders it all the more desirable, for though the foliage is small and somewhat spare, it is
of a bright and pleasing colour. Quite young specimens are prolific, and only during the severe
months are they without berries.

A full-grown example does not exceed the height of 6in. or 8in. in this climate. The flowers
are green and insignificant--in fact, hardly visible, and must be closely looked for; they
are produced singly on the riper parts of the soft wooded branches; they are chubby forms,
all but stalkless, and supported by a brown stem-clasping sheath, which is long-pointed and
bent backwards, resembling a spine; these sheaths are numerous, and probably suggested the
specific name, setosus--rough or bristly. The flowers appear for many months, and there is
a corresponding succession of berries; the latter form the main feature of this singular shrub,
measuring 1/8in. to 1/6in. in diameter, they are of a clear, shining white colour, and are
well named "pearl fruit." Sooner or later in the season every joint of the main branches seems
to be furnished with fruit, which lasts a long time in perfection. The leaves are ½in. to 1in.
long, pinnate, leaflets awl-shaped, reflexed, and of a deep glistening green colour; they are
arranged in minute tufts on stoutish branchlets, and, for the most part, have a single berry
at the parent node. All these young shoots grow in the upward direction, leaving the procumbent
branches to form an even line on the lower side. The habit of this shrub is spreading and prostrate,
and, from the bright berries and foliage (the latter all turned upwards), it becomes a most
pleasing object to look down upon, reminding one of a dwarf erica immediately after a hailstorm.
For rockwork, this is a gem. Many amateurs will be glad to learn, if they do not already know
the shrub, that it is one of those pretty, uncommon, and distinct forms ever desirable for
choice collections.

It should be so planted that its branches can rest on a dark-coloured stone; this will show
up its fruit to advantage. It enjoys a rich, light soil, thriving in a mixture of sand, loam,
and rotten leaves. Beyond this there is nothing special about its culture; moreover, it is
easily increased, either by cuttings taken in summer and pricked into moist peat under a bell
glass, or by layering the branches. These only need to be pegged down and covered with soil,
or to have a small boulder placed on the part where roots are desired.

Flowering period, all summer.

Mazus Pumilio.

DWARF MAZUS; Nat. Ord. SCROPHULARIACEÆ.

This diminutive and pretty plant is a native of Australia, and was introduced into this country
in 1823. It is hardy, herbaceous, and perennial; it is, however, sometimes said to be only
annual, which may have been inferred from the fact of its perishing in winter in this climate
when grown in cold, stiff soil, but that it is perennial is beyond doubt. Not only have I experienced
that it dies every winter in clay soil, but also that the roots remain fresh and healthy year
after year when in more suitable quarters, such as an open situation in light vegetable soil
mixed with sand, where it quickly spreads by underground runners and asserts its perennial
character.

Its flowers much resemble the small wild violet of the hedgerows, in size and colour more especially;
the flower-stalks are, however, sometimes branched, carrying four or five flowers; and if I
may be allowed to make another comparison in order to convey an idea of its form, I would mention
Pinguicula vulgaris, the common butterwort. The flowers spring from the midst of flattened
tufts of pale green foliage; the leaves are 1in. to 3in. long, spoon-shaped, slightly waved
at the edges and occasionally notched, distinctly veined, of a light green colour, and flesh-tinted
in the stalks; they are arranged in nearly rosette form up to the period of flowering, when
they are not only longer, but become almost erect; but the younger tufts which do not produce
flowers remain perfectly flat.

It is useful for rockwork or as a carpet plant where the soil is of a sandy nature. There should
be few bare places in our gardens whilst we have such lovely creepers as this to fall back
upon. The rooted stems, which run immediately under the surface, may be transplanted any time
except during winter. If the roots are mutilated then, they will probably rot.

Flowering period, June to September.

Melittis Melissophyllum.

Syn. M. GRANDIFLORUM; LARGE-FLOWERED BASTARD BALM; Nat. Ord. LABIATÆ.

This is a somewhat uncommon but handsome native plant. The above names, together with the illustration
(Fig. 63), will doubtless give the reader a fair idea of its appearance. It forms one of the
best possible subjects for a border of "old-fashioned" plants, being of a distinct type and colour.

The flowers are a mixture of white, pink, and purple; and are nearly 2in. long, in general
shape resembling the foxglove, but wider at the corolla and a little shorter in the broad tube.
They are arranged in whorls springing from the axils of the leaves. The whorls are said to
be of as many as eight flowers, but specimens are more commonly seen to have only two to four,
being repeated the whole length of the stems, which are 18in. high. The leaves are two to three
inches long, and half as broad, ovate, serrate, hairy, and short stalked. No one can be otherwise
than pleased with the ancient style and soft colour of the large flowers, which last a long
time in perfection. There is a trimness, too, about the plant which distinguishes it from the
more weedy species to which it is related.

In a cut state the long stems are not only pretty of themselves when placed in old vases or
crackle ware, but they have a remarkably good effect. They, however, should not be crowded
or swamped by more showy foliage or flowers--in fact, they should be used alone.

It will grow anywhere and in any quality of soil, but slight shade and well-enriched loam will
be found to make a vast difference in the size of the flowers, and their colour will be also
improved. It may be divided or transplanted any time after it has done flowering.

Flowering period, June to August.

Monarda Didyma.

Syn. M. KALMIANA; BEE BALM, or OSWEGO TEA; Nat. Ord. LABIATÆ.

All the Monardas are natives of North America, and, consequently, quite hardy in this country;
they are also herbaceous and perennial. This species has been grown for 130 years in English
gardens, and at the present time it is not only accounted an old flower but it is highly esteemed.
The blooms are large and brilliant in colour, and their shaggy forms give them an effect which
is decorative both in the garden and vase.

The flowers are not only numerous, but, for the most part, bright; moreover, they begin to
flower at midsummer and continue until the frosts set in.

The species under notice has bright scarlet flowers, produced when the plant is about 18in.
high; it, however, grows to nearly twice that size, flowering all the while. The whorls of
bloom issue from half-globular arrangements of buds and persistent calyces; each flower is
an inch long; corolla ringent, or gaping; helmet, or upper division, linear; the seed organs
are longer; the calyx tubular, having five minute teeth, being striped and grooved; the whole
head, or whorl, is supported by a leafy bract, the leaflets being of a pale green colour, tinted
with red. The leaves are ovate-cordate, or broadly lance-shaped, taper-pointed, toothed, rough,
and slightly wrinkled, and they have short stalks. The stems are square, grooved, and hard.
The whole plant exhales a powerful but pleasant odour. The habit is branching, that of the
root progressive, not only increasing rapidly, but such parts on the surface may be termed
creeping or prostrate branches, forming a veritable mat of fibre.

The whole genus is made up of such species as may be used freely in most gardens, more especially
in those having plenty of space.

For culture and flowering period, see M. Russelliana.

Monarda Fistulosa.

WILD BERGAMOT; Syns. M. AFFINIS, M. ALTISSIMA, M. MEDIA, M. OBLONGATA, M. PURPUREA, and M.
RUGOSA; Nat. Ord. LABIATÆ.

The Wild Bergamot has a pleasant smell; it has, however, the objectionable property of attracting
great numbers of bees and wasps.

Compared with the scarlet M. didyma, the more striking differences are the purple flowers,
which are less, and mostly produced in single heads. The bracts are tinted with purple, and
they are more bent down the stems; the latter, too, are only half as thick and of a dark brown
colour.

For culture and flowering period, see M. Russelliana.

Monarda Russelliana.

RUSSELL'S MONARDA; Nat. Ord. LABIATÆ.

Another, distinct species. Its flowers are white, with pistil tinted purple, and less in size
than either of the above. The bract is remarkably large, and further amplified by numerous
small leaves amongst the flowers; all are deeply tinted or veined with purple; the leaves are
larger than those of M. didyma, and those near the tops of the stems are also tinted with purple
on their stalks, mid-ribs, and edges; the stems are green, rounded at the corners, channelled,
and smooth.

There are other species than those I have named, but the above-mentioned are not only the more
distinct, and well represent the genus, but as flowers they form a richly beautiful trio of
colour, so that, when grown side by side, their effectiveness is much enhanced; as cut bloom
they answer well for furnishing old vases. Either growing or cut, their flowers and leaves
are pleasant, but if bruised the odour is too powerful; they, however, when used in moderation,
form a valuable ingredient of pot pourri.

They may be grown in ordinary soil, and in any position but a too shady one. The propagation
of these plants may be carried out any time, by cutting small squares of the matted roots from
old specimens, but it will be found that if allowed to grow to bold examples their effect will
be all the more telling.

Flowering period, July to September.

Morina Longifolia.

Syn. M. ELEGANS; WHORL FLOWER; Nat. Ord. DIPSACEÆ.

Until this plant comes into flower there is little about it for us, who are trained to dislike
and almost despise thistles, to admire. It is not a thistle certainly, but the resemblance
is very close when not in flower, and the three or four specimens which I grow have often caused
a laugh from visitors at my expense, but I pocket the laugh and ask them to come and see my
thistles in June. When, too, weeding is being done, it is always needful, for the safety of
the plants, to give some such hint as "Do not pull up those thistles;" but if this plant is
no relation to that despised weed, it belongs to another race, the species of which are also
formidably armed--viz., the Teasel. It comes from the Himalayas, and is comparatively new in
English gardens.

It is hardy, herbaceous, and perennial, grows to a height of 2ft., and the flowers are produced
in whorls or tiers interspersed with the thorny foliage near the top of the stems. At this
stage of development the plant has a noble appearance, and the rings of flowers are very beautiful--though
when I say flowers I here mean the combination of buds and blossoms in their different stages
and colours. The buds are pure white and waxy, and when open, are of a delicate pink; as they
get advanced, they turn to a lovely crimson; these are all the more pleasing, because the flowers
last a long time. In form they are tubular and horn-shaped, having a spreading, uneven corolla,
five-parted. Each flower is 1in. long and ¾in. across, six to fifteen in a whorl, the whorls
being five to ten in number. The whorl-bracts are formed of three arrow-shaped leaves, deeply
cupped, and overlapping at their junction with the stem or scape; they are spiny and downy
underneath. Calyx, tubular and brown. Segments (two), pale green, notched, alternated with
long spines, and surrounded with shorter ones. The leaves of the root are 9in. to 12in. long,
and 2in. wide in the broadest parts; pinnate, waved, and spined, like the holly or thistle.
The leaves of the stem are similar in shape, but very much smaller. The whole plant, and especially
if there are several together, has a stately appearance, and attracts much attention; it is
a good border plant, but it will be more at home, and show to equal advantage in openings in
the front parts of the shrubbery, because it enjoys a little shade, and the shelter from high
winds is a necessity, it being top heavy; if tied, it is robbed of its natural and beautiful form.

It thrives well in sandy loam. Slugs are fond of it, and eat into the collar or crown, and
therefore they should be looked for, especially in winter, during open weather. To propagate
it, the roots should be divided as soon as the plants have done flowering, they then become
established before winter sets in. Plant in the permanent quarters, and shade with leafy branches
for a fortnight.

Flowering period, June and July.

Muhlenbeckia Complexa.

Nat. Ord. POLYGONACEÆ.

A hardy climber, of great beauty; during November its nearly black stems are well furnished
with its peculiar small dark green leaves, which, even when without flowers or fruit, render
it an object of first-class merit as a decorative subject. The illustration (Fig. 64) is fairly
representative of all its parts; still, it can give no idea of the effect of a specimen climbing
4ft. to 6ft. high, diffuse and spreading withal. Although I have grown this handsome climber
several years, my experience and information respecting it are very limited indeed; its hardiness
and beauty are the inducements which have led me to recommend it for the pleasure garden. As
a matter of fact, I have never bloomed it, and I am indebted to a lady for the wax-like and
flower-shaped fruits illustrated; they were produced in a warm vinery, and I have otherwise
learned that in this climate the plant only flowers outside during very warm summers. I have
also information from one of H. M. Botanic Gardens that this species "was introduced from South
America, but when and by whom I am unable to say. It requires a warm, sheltered position. Before
the severe winters came it used to be covered with star-like whitish flowers, which were succeeded
by fruits."

The fruits given in the illustration (natural size) are a fine feature, but, considering the
uncertainty of their production, they can hardly be claimed for outside decoration. They are
of a transparent, wax-like substance, and the tooth-like divisions glisten like miniature icicles;
they hang in small clusters on lateral shoots from the more ripened stems, and have a charming
effect, contrasting finely with the black stems and dark green foliage. The leaves are small
(¼in. to ¾in. across) somewhat fiddle-shaped, of good substance, and having slender stalks;
they are alternate and distantly arranged on the long trailing and climbing stems. The habit
is dense and diffuse, and though it loses many leaves in winter, I have never seen it entirely
bare; it is therefore entitled to be called evergreen with outdoor treatment. The distinct
form and colour of its foliage, together with the graceful shape of the spray-like branches,
render this subject of great value for cutting purposes. Seen in company, and used sparingly
with white flowers for epergne work, the effect is unique; and I ask those who possess it to
try it in that or a similar way.

It enjoys a sunny position and well drained or sandy soil. With me it grows entangled with
a rose tree, the latter being nailed to the wall. I have also seen it very effective on the
upper and drier parts of rockwork, where it can have nothing to cling to; there it forms a
dense prostrate bush. It may be propagated by cuttings of the hardier shoots, which should
be taken in early summer; by this method they become nicely rooted before winter.

Flowering periods, warm summers.

Muscari Botryoides.

GRAPE HYACINTH; Nat. Ord. LILIACEÆ.

This is a hardy species, somewhat finer than the more common M. racemosum, from the fact of
its richer, bright sky blue flowers. The form of the Grape Hyacinth is well known (see Fig.
65), being a very old garden flower and a great favourite; when it is once planted, it keeps
its place, despite all drawbacks common to a crowded border, with the exception of that wholesale
destroyer, a careless digger; if left undisturbed for a year or two, it increases to very showy
clumps.

The flowers, which are densely arranged on stout spikes 8in. high, are very small, globular,
and narrowed at the opening, where the tiny divisions are tipped with white. The foliage resembles
that of the wood hyacinth, but it is more rigid, not so broad, and slightly glaucous.

It seems to do best in light earth, and the flowers are finer in colour when grown in shade,
but not too much. Where quantities are available, they may be used as an edging, nothing looking
better in a spring garden.

M. b. alba varies only in the colour of its flowers; the white is somewhat creamy for a time;
it becomes much clearer after a few days, and remains in perfection for two weeks in ordinary
weather. This is a charming variety; grown by the side of the different blues its beauty is
enhanced. It is very effective as a cut flower, though rather stiff, but if sparingly used
it is attractive for bouquets, whilst for a buttonhole one or two spikes answer admirably.

Flowering period, March to May.

Muscari Racemosum.

Nat. Ord. LILIACEÆ.

This is the commonest species, and although very pleasing, suffers by a comparison with the
above blue kind, being more dwarf and the flowers less bright. The best time to transplant
the bulbs is when the tops have died off, and the choicer sorts of these, as well as all other
bulbs whose foliage dies off early in summer, should have something to mark their situation
when in their dormant state.

Cultivation and flowering period, as for M. botryoides.

Narcissus Minor.

SMALLER DAFFODIL; Nat. Ord. AMARYLLIDACEÆ.

A very beautiful and effective spring flower. Though a native of Spain, it proves one of the
hardiest denizens of our gardens; it is not often met with, but it has been cultivated in this
country since 1629. It was well known in Parkinson's time. Not merely is it a species due to
bloom early, but it does so, no matter how severe the weather may be, in March, and the flowers
are freely produced. We could hardly have more severe weather than we had in March, 1883, when
the snow was sometimes several inches deep and the frost as much as 17deg. to 23deg. Still
this little Daffodil continued to push up its golden blossoms, so that in the latter half of
the month, it formed one of the most pleasing of the hardy flowers of the spring garden. Its
blue-green leaves are densely grown, and being only 4in. high and somewhat rigid, they not
only form a rich setting for the bright blossom which scarcely tops them, but they support
the flowers, which have a drooping habit. Later on, however, they lift their fair faces and
look out sideways, but whether seen in profile or otherwise, they are alike charming.

I do not remember ever to have seen or heard this flower described as finely scented; as a
matter of fact, it is deliciously so. The odour is aromatic and mace-like. If the bloom is
cut when in its prime and quite dry, a few heads will scent a fair-sized room. Of course, all
the species of the genus (as implied by the generic name) exhale an odour, and some kinds a
very fragrant one, whilst others are said to be injurious; but the spicy smell of this can
scarcely be otherwise than acceptable, and it must always be a desirable feature in a flower
suitable for cutting, and more especially in a winter and spring flower. From its dwarfness
this Daffodil is very liable to be soiled; either of three plans may be adopted to prevent
this: Plant on grass; top-dress in January with longish litter, which by the blooming time
will have a washed and not very objectionable appearance; or, lastly, let the patches grow
broad and thick, when their own foliage will keep down the mud, excepting at the sides. I find
the litter method to answer well for scores of things for a similar purpose.

Flowers are produced on slender scapes, 3in. to 4in. long, singly, from the long membranous
spatha; they are 1¼in. across the expanded perianth, and about the same length; the six divisions
are rather longer than the tube, and of a pale yellow or lemon colour; the crown or nectary
is campanulate, longer than the petal-like divisions, lobed, fringed, and of a deep yellow
colour. The leaves are strap-shaped, stout and glaucous, and about the same length as the scapes.

This plant is in no way particular as to soil, provided it is well drained. It enjoys, however,
partial shade and liberal top-dressings of manure. It increases fast by offsets, and, if desirable,
the bulbs may be lifted the third year for division, after the tops have died off in late summer.

Flowering period, March and April.

Nierembergia Rivularis.

WATER NIEREMBERGIA, or WHITE CUP; Nat. Ord. SOLANACEÆ.

This alpine plant comes from La Plata; when well grown (and it easily may be) it is a gem--hardy,
herbaceous, and perennial. It has a most pleasing habit; from its mass of root-like stems which
run very near the surface, it sends up a dense carpet of short-stalked leaves, which in July
become studded over with large and chaste white flowers; though it rarely exceeds 4in. in height,
it is very attractive.

The flowers are 1½in. across, of a variously tinted white, sometimes with pink and sometimes
with purplish-grey inside the corolla. The outside is yellowish-green; the five lobes of the
corolla are arranged cup-fashion, having four distinct ribs or nerves and wavy margins, the
inner bases being richly tinted with lemon-yellow; what appears at first sight to be the flower-stalk,
2in. to 3in. long, is really a long round tube, very narrow for so large a flower; it is of
even thickness all its length. The calyx nearly touches the earth; it is also tubular and five-cleft.
The leaves are from less than an inch to 3in. long, somewhat spoon-shaped or sub-spathulate
and entire, smooth, and very soft to the touch.

It thrives in a light soil, but it should not be dry. Moisture and a little shade are the chief
conditions required by this lovely creeper, and where bare places exist, which are otherwise
suitable, nothing more pleasing could well be planted; in dips or the more moist parts of rockwork,
it may be grown with capital effect, but the patches should be broad. It also forms a good
surfacing subject for leggy plants or shrubs. Lilies not only appear to more advantage when
carpeted with the short dense foliage of this creeper, but their roots are kept more cool and
moist by it, and there are many similar cases in which it will prove equally useful. It is
easily propagated by division of the roots after the leaves have died off, but I have found
spring much the better time, just as the new growth is pushing.

Flowering period, July and August.

Oenothera Speciosa.

SHOWY EVENING PRIMROSE; Nat. Ord. ONAGRACEÆ.

A hardy and beautiful perennial species from North America; it is aptly named, as the flowers
are not only large but numerous (see Fig. 66). The plant has a gay appearance for many weeks.
As a garden flower, it is one of those happy subjects which may be allowed to grow in any odd
corner, no matter what quality the soil may be, and full exposure or a little shade is equally
suitable. No matter where it grows in the garden, it is a showy and pleasing flower, which,
if plucked, is found to have the delicate smell of the sweet pea. It grows 18in. high, is herb-like
in the foliage, and very distinct from other species, more especially as regards its slender
stems and somewhat large and irregular foliage.

The flowers are a satiny white, delicately nerved, and nearly 3in. across; the four petals
are a pleasing yellowish-green at the bases; when fully expanded they form a cross, being clear
of each other; they become tinted with rose when they begin to fade. The leaves are of various
sizes, sometimes spotted, lance-shaped, toothed, and attenuated at the base. The general habit
of the plant is erect, but it is often procumbent; it has, from its slender stems, a light
appearance, and for one evening's use the sprays are very useful in a cut state.

It propagates itself freely by its root runners near the surface. These roots may be transplanted
in early spring, and they will flower the same year.

Flowering period, June to August.

Oenothera Taraxacifolia.

DANDELION-LEAVED EVENING PRIMROSE; Nat. Ord. ONAGRACEÆ.

From the great beauty of the flowers of this plant, it has not only become widely distributed,
but a great favourite, considering that it was so recently introduced into this country as
1825; it came from Peru. Fortunately this charming exotic proves perfectly hardy in our climate;
it is also herbaceous and perennial. No garden ought to be without so easily grown a flower,
and though its foliage much resembles that of the common dandelion, a fine mass of it proves
no mean setting for the large white flowers which spring from the midst of it. Another pleasing
feature in connection with the flowers is that for a day they are pure white, after which they
partly close and turn to a scarcely less beautiful delicate flesh tint. This colour and the
half closed form are retained for several days; it exhales a sweet odour, about which there
is a peculiarity. When newly opened--the first night--while the flowers are white, they will
be found to have a grateful scent like tea roses; but if the older and coloured blooms are
tried, they will be found to have the refreshing smell of almonds.

There is yet another curious trait about this lovely flower--it has a long stalk-like tube,
which may be called the flower stalk, as, so to speak, it has no other, and the lower part--it
being 4in. to 6in. long--is inclined to squareness, but near the top it becomes round and widens
into the divisions of the calyx, being, in fact, the tube or undivided part of the calyx. Let
the reader carefully examine this interesting flower. First pluck it with all its length of
stem or tube (it may be 6in. long); with a small knife or needle split it upwards, and there
will be exposed the style of a corresponding length. The tube and segments of the calyx are
of a pale green colour, segments an inch or more long, finely pointed; the four petals are
large, nearly round, and overlapping each other, forming a corolla more than 3in. across; they
are satiny in appearance, and transparent, beautifully veined or nerved, the nerves having
delicate green basements, from which spring stamens of a like colour, but with anthers ½in.
long, evenly balanced, and furnished with lemon-yellow pollen. The leaves are herb-like, and,
as the common name implies, like the leaves of the dandelion, similar in size, but more cut
or lobed. The plant, however, varies materially from the dandelion, in having stems which push
out all round the crown, growing to a considerable length, and resting on the ground.

This plant cannot well be grown in too large quantities, where there is plenty of room; it
produces flowers for a long time, and they are highly serviceable for cutting purposes, though
lasting only a short time. It cannot well be planted wrong as regards position, as it will
thrive anywhere, providing the soil is enriched, it being a gross feeder; it should not, however,
be planted where it will be likely to overgrow smaller and less rampant subjects. On the whole,
it is one of those plants which afford a maximum of pleasure for a minimum of care, and needs
no special culture--in fact, takes care of itself. Its propagation is simple, and may be carried
out either by division of the old roots or by transplanting the self-sown seedlings into their
blooming quarters, during March or April.

Flowering period, June to August.

Omphalodes Verna.

CREEPING FORGET-ME-NOT; Syn. CYNOGLOSSUM OMPHALODES; Nat. Ord. BORAGINACEÆ.

The common name of this pretty, hardy, herbaceous creeper at once gives the keynote to its
description; it is a very old plant in English gardens, and a native of South Europe. Parkinson
gives a very neat description of it: "This small borage shooteth forth many leaves from the
roote, every one upon a long stalke, of a darke greene colour; the stalkes are small and slender,
not above halfe a foote high, with very few leaves thereon, and at the toppes come forth the
flowers, made of five blew round pointed leaves, every one upon a long foote stalke." This,
together with the well-known form and habit of the plant, leaves little more to be said by
way of description; and it maybe added that though the flowers are akin to forget-me-nots,
but more brilliant, the foliage is very different indeed, being nearly heart-shaped, and over
2in. long. Its habit is such that though its flowers are small, they are somewhat conspicuous,
from their brightness, abundance, and manner in which they are produced, i.e., well above a
bright green mass of leaves; only bold clumps, however, show to such advantage. When the plant
is fairly established, it makes rapid growth, increasing itself somewhat strawberry fashion,
by runners.

It is worthy of note here that this semi-woody creeper does well under trees not too densely
grown. Many inquiries are made for such subjects, and this is one of the number (which is far
from ample) that can be relied upon for not only covering the bare earth, but also for bespangling
such position with its bright blossoms for two months in spring. I have also tried it in pots,
grown and bloomed under the shade of a trellised peach tree, in a small house, without artificial
heat, where it not only did well, but vied with the violets for effectiveness.

This otherwise robust plant I have found to die when divided in the autumn (a period when many--indeed,
I may say most--perennials are best transplanted), but when its propagation is carried out
in spring, it grows like a weed.

Flowering period, March to May.

Ononis Rotundifolia.

ROUND-LEAVED RESTHARROW; Nat. Ord. LEGUMINOSÆ.

One of the most charming of the "old-fashioned" border flowers, having been grown in this country
since 1570. It came from the Pyrenees, is hardy, evergreen, and shrubby. The common name of
the genus, Restharrow, is in reference to the long, tough, and woody roots and branches. According
to Gerarde, these properties "maketh the oxen, whilst they be in plowing, to rest or stand
still." Although this species has tough roots and branches, it seems more likely that the name
would be from the trouble caused by the weedy species of the genus of his time.

In its growing state there is seen an exquisiteness of form and colour rarely approached by
any other subject; from the manner in which the unopened scarlet buds blend with the thick
and handsome-shaped foliage, the illustration (Fig. 67) can scarcely do justice to it. It should
not be judged by other and better known species of the genus, some of which are of a weedy
character, and from which this is as distinct as it well can be. Besides having the valuable
property of flowering all summer, it is otherwise a suitable subject for the most select collections
of hardy flowers.

It grows 18in. high, and is erect and branched in habit; the flowers are produced on short
side shoots; in form they are pea-flower-shaped, as the reader will infer from the order to
which the shrub belongs. The raceme seldom has more than two or three flowers fully open at
one time, when they are of a shaded pink colour, and nearly an inch in length; the leaves are
1in. to 2in., ternate, sometimes in fives, ovate, toothed, and covered with glandular hairs.

The plant should be grown in bold specimens for the best effect. Ordinary garden soil suits
it; if deeply dug and enriched, all the better. It is not so readily increased by division
of the roots as many border plants, though root slips may, with care, be formed into nice plants
the first season; the better plan is to sow the seed as soon as well ripened, from which more
vigorous plants may be had, and they will sometimes flower the following summer, though far
short of their natural size.

Flowering period, June to September.

Onosma Taurica.

GOLDEN DROP; Nat. Ord. BORAGINACEÆ.

A hardy perennial, somewhat woody, and retaining much of its foliage in a fresh state throughout
the winter, though by some described as herbaceous. The leaves which wither remain persistent,
and sometimes this proves a source of danger to the specimen, from holding moisture during
our wet winters, causing rot to set in. It is a comparatively new plant in English gardens,
having been introduced from the Caucasus in 1801, and as yet is seldom met with. Not only is
it distinct in the form of its flowers--as may be seen by the illustration (Fig. 68)--from
other species of its order, but it has bloom of exceptional beauty, and the plant as a garden
subject is further enhanced in value from the fact of its delicious perfume and perpetual blooming
habit--i.e., it flowers until stopped by frosts; in short, it is one of the very finest hardy
flowers, and if I could only grow a small collection of fifty, this should be one of such collection.

The flowers are bright yellow, 1½in. long, somewhat pear-shaped, and tubular. The calyx is
long and deeply divided; the corolla is narrowed at the mouth; segments short, broad, and rolled
back, forming a sort of rim. The flowers are arranged in branched heads, which are one-sided.
The flower stalks are short, and the flowers and buds closely grown. The stems are about a
foot long, having short alternate shoots, which flower later on; they are weighed to the ground
with the numerous flowers and buds; the leaves are 3in. to 6in. long, narrow, lance-shaped,
reflexed, and covered with short stiff hairs, which impart a grey appearance to the foliage.

It should be grown fully exposed, as it loves sunshine; if planted in the frequented parts
of the garden, its delicious perfume is the more likely to be enjoyed; on rockwork, somewhat
elevated, will perhaps prove the best position for it, as then the pendent flowers can be better
seen and studied. The whole habit of the plant renders it a suitable subject for the rock garden;
it may be grown in either loam or vegetable soil if well drained, and when it once becomes
established in genial quarters it makes rapid growth and is very floriferous. What a rich bed
could be formed of this, judiciously mixed with hardy fuchsias and the various linums, having
deep blue flowers and graceful slender stems! These all love a breezy situation and sunshine,
they also all flower at the same time, and continuously. To increase this choice plant, cuttings
should be taken during summer; they may be rooted quickly if placed in a cucumber frame and
kept shaded for ten or twelve days; water should be given carefully, or the hairy leaves will
begin to rot. Aim at having the young stock well rooted and hardened off before the cold weather
sets in.

Flowering period, June to the frosts.

Orchis Foliosa.

LEAFY ORCHIS; Nat. Ord. ORCHIDACEÆ.

This terrestrial Orchid is not generally known to be hardy, but that such is the fact is beyond
doubt. It is not only hardy, though it comes from Madeira, but it thrives better in this climate
when exposed to all the drawbacks belonging to the open garden, or hardy treatment, than when
kept under glass. It only seems to require two things--a deep rich soil and leaving alone--being
very impatient of disturbance at its roots. Many of the hardy Orchids, though interesting,
are not showy enough as flowers for beds or borders. This, however, is an exception, and is
not only, in common with other Orchids, an interesting species, but a handsome and durable flower.

It blooms at different heights, from 9in. to 2ft.; the spike, as implied by the name, is leafy
up to and among the flowered portion, which is from 3in. to 9in. long; the flowers are a cheerful
purple colour, each ¾in. in diameter; the sepals are erect, cupped, and paler in colour than
the other parts of the flower; petals small; lip large, three lobed, the middle one somewhat
pointed; leaves oblong and smooth, lessening and becoming more subulate near the top of the
stem. When well grown, this plant has a noble appearance, and when closely viewed is seen to
be a flower of a high order, as, in fact, all the Orchids are.

Fortunately, it is not so particular either as regards soil or atmosphere as most of its relations,
and it may frequently be met with in cottage gardens in splendid form. Good sandy loam, in
a moist situation, suits it well, and I have seen it with fine spikes of bloom both in partial
shade and fully exposed. Its position should be correctly noted, otherwise, when the tops have
died down, the roots may suffer damage; they should be well guarded against disturbance. When
increase is desirable the roots may be divided, but if they can be left alone it will be much
to the advantage of the specimens.

Flowering period, June and July.

Orchis Fusca.

BROWN ORCHIS; Nat. Ord. ORCHIDACEÆ.

A rare and noble British species, terrestrial, and having a tuberous root of moderate size;
the specific name does not always apply, as this species varies considerably in the colour
of its flowers--certainly all are not brown. According to Gray, the flowers are "large, greenish-brown,
brownish-purple, or pale ash grey;" the specimen from which our illustration (Fig. 69) was
drawn may be said to be "brownish-purple," from its great number of brown spots; it is also
slightly tinged with green. According to Linnæus, it is synonymous with O. Militaris, the Soldier,
or Brown Man Orchis. Of the native kinds of Orchis, many of which are now getting very scarce,
it is desirable to know what's what. But, as a garden flower, the one now under consideration
has many points of merit. The plant is bold and portly, and the foliage ample compared with
many of the genus. The head of flowers is large, numerous, and well lifted up, while, far from
their least good quality, is that of their fine aromatic perfume.

The full size of a flower is shown in the drawing. The sepals are seen to be broad, converging,
and pointed; the lip, which is rough, is three-parted; lobes, unequal and ragged; the side
ones are long and narrow, the middle lobe is twice notched in an irregular manner; the spur
is straight with the stem; bracts, short; the flowers are densely produced, forming a compact
bunch 3in. to 4in. long, on a spike rather over a foot tall; they continue in perfection three
weeks or a month. The leaves are 9in. or more in length, lance-shaped, and fully an inch broad
in the middle; they are of a pale, shining, green colour, the root leaves resting on the ground.

I find this Orchid capable of withstanding very rough treatment, but it requires some time
(two years) to get fairly established. Silky loam and leaf soil are suitable for it; a moist
situation, but in no way of a stagnant character, should be given, and the position should
also be carefully selected, so as to secure the brittle and top-heavy flower spikes from strong
winds, otherwise it will suffer the fate of hundreds of tulips after a gale. It is propagated
by root division after the foliage has died off.

Flowering period, end of May to end of June.

Origanum Pulchellum.

BEAUTIFUL MARJORAM; Nat. Ord. LABIATÆ.

This is indeed a well-named species or variety, whichever it may be; little seems to be known
of its origin, but that it is distinct and beautiful is beyond doubt. It shines most as a rock
plant; its long and bending stems, which are somewhat procumbent, have as much rigidity about
them as to prevent their having a weak appearance; the tips, moreover, are erect, showing off
to advantage the handsome imbricate bracts, bespangled as they are with numerous rosy-purple
blossoms. The long and elegant panicles of bracteæ, together with the pleasing arrangement
thereof, are the main features of this subject.

The rosy flowers are very small, and have the appearance of being packed between the bracteoles;
still, their gaping forms are distinctly traceable, but the pretty lipped calyxes are quite
hidden; the bract leaves are roundly-oval, acute, cupped, and touched with a nutty-brown tint
on the outer sides; the spikes have many minor ones, being as fine as a thread, covered with
short soft hairs, and of a brown colour; the leaves are ¾in. long, oval, entire, and downy.
The plant or shrub grows 18in. high. As already hinted, the habit is procumbent, the older
flower stems being woody; not only is it a bright object for rockwork, but it is in its finest
form when most other flowers are past. The branches are useful in a cut state; the slender
spikelets, with their pale green and brown tinted bracts, are very pretty by gas light, and
they keep well for a long time in water.

The Marjorams are fond of a dry situation, and this is no exception to that rule. Rockwork
or raised beds of sandy loam suits it to perfection, provided the aspect is sunny. It will,
therefore, be seen that there is nothing special about its culture, neither is there in its
propagation; cuttings may be taken in summer, or the rooted shoots may be divided at almost
any time.

It flowers from September to the time of severe frosts, and is in its greatest beauty in October.

Orobus Vernus.

PEASELING, OR SPRING BITTER VETCH; Nat. Ord. LEGUMINOSÆ.

A hardy herbaceous perennial; it flowers in very early spring, and sometimes sooner, but it
is in full beauty in April, its blooming period being very prolonged. Not only is this bright
and handsome pea flower worth attention being a very old subject of English gardens, but also
because of its intrinsic merit as a decorative plant. I say plant designedly, as its form is
both sprightly and elegant, which, I fear, the illustration (Fig. 70) can hardly do justice
to--more especially its spring tints and colours.

Pretty nearly as soon as the growths are out of the earth the flowers begin to appear. The
greatest height the plants attain rarely exceeds a foot; this commends it as a suitable border
plant. Individually the flowers are not showy, but collectively they are pleasing and effective.
When they first open they are a mixture of green, red, blue, and purple, the latter predominating.
As they become older they merge into blue, so that a plant shows many flowers in various shades,
none of which are quite an inch long, and being borne on slender drooping stalks, which issue
from the leafy stems, somewhat below the leading growths, the bloom is set off to great advantage.
The foliage in form resembles the common vetch, but is rather larger in the leaflets, and instead
of being downy like the vetch, the leaves are smooth and bright. In a cut state, sprays are
very useful, giving lightness to the stiffer spring flowers, such as tulips, narcissi, and
hyacinths. Rockwork suits it admirably; it also does well in borders; but in any position it
pays for liberal treatment in the form of heavy manuring. It seeds freely, and may be propagated
by the seed or division of strong roots in the autumn. Whether rabbits can scent it a considerable
distance off, I cannot say, but, certain it is, they find mine every year, and in one part
of the garden eat it off bare.

Flowering period, March to May.

Ourisia Coccinea.

Nat. Ord. SCROPHULARIACEÆ.

A hardy herbaceous perennial from South America, as yet rarely seen in English gardens, and
more seldom in good form. As may be judged by the illustration (Fig. 71), it is a charming
plant, but it has beauties which cannot be there depicted; its deep green and shining leaves
constitute wavy masses of foliage, most pleasing to see, and the short-stemmed, lax clusters
of dazzling scarlet flowers are thereby set off to great advantage. I have no fear of overpraising
this plant, as one cannot well do that. I will, however, add that it is a decorative subject
of the highest order, without a single coarse feature about it; seldom is it seen without a
few solitary sprays of flowers, and it is never met with in a seedy or flabby state of foliage,
but it remains plump throughout the autumn, when it sometimes shows a disposition to indulge
in "autumnal tints." Though seldom encountered, this lovely plant is well known, as it is pretty
sure to be, from notes made of it and published with other garden news; but it has the reputation
of being a fickle plant, difficult to grow, and a shy bloomer. I trust this statement will
not deter a single reader from introducing it into his garden; if I had found it manageable
only with an unreasonable amount of care, I would not have introduced it here. It certainly
requires special treatment, but all the conditions are so simple and practicable, in even the
smallest garden, that it cannot be fairly termed difficult, as we shall shortly see.

The flowers are 1½in. long, in form intermediate between the pentstemon and snapdragon, but
in size smaller, and the colour an unmixed deep scarlet: they are produced on stems 9in. high,
round, hairy, and furnished with a pair of very small stem-clasping leaves, and where the panicle
of flowers begins there is a small bract, and less perfectly developed ones are at every joint,
whence spring the wiry flower stalks in fours, threes, and twos, of various lengths and a ruddy
colour. The panicles are lax and bending; the flowers, too, are pendent; calyx, five-parted
and sharply toothed; stamens, four, and long as petals; anthers, large and cream coloured,
style long and protruding. The leaves are radical, and have long, hairy, bending stalks; the
main ribs are also hairy; beneath, they are of a deep green colour, bald, shining, veined and
wrinkled; their form is somewhat heart-shaped, sometimes oval, lobed, but not deeply, and unevenly
notched; they grow in dense masses to the height of 6in.

It is said to like a peaty soil, in which I have never tried it. In the management of this
plant I have found position to be the main desideratum; the soil may be almost anything if
it is kept moist and sweet by good drainage, but Ourisia coccinea will not endure exposure
to hot sunshine; even if the soil is moist it will suffer. I have large patches of it, 3ft.
in diameter, growing in a mixture of clay and ashes, formed into a bank 18in. high, sloping
north and screened by a hedge nearly 6ft. high from the mid-day sun, and shaded by overhanging
trees; and I may also add that during the three years my specimens have occupied this shady,
moist, but well drained position they have grown and flowered freely, always best in the deepest
shade. As before hinted, there is a sort of special treatment required by this plant, but it
is, after all, very simple. It is a slow surface creeper, should be planted freely in frequented
parts of the garden, if the needful conditions exist, and no more beautiful surfacing can be
recommended; grown in such quantities it will be available for cutting purposes. As a cut flower
it is remarkably distinct and fine; it so outshines most other flowers that it must either
have well selected company or be used with only a few ferns or grasses.

It is readily increased by division of the creeping roots, which is best done in early spring.
If such divisions are made in the autumn, according to my experience, the roots rot; they should
therefore be taken off either in summer, when there is still time for the young stock to make
roots, or be left in the parent clump until spring, when they will start into growth at once.

Flowering period, May to September.

Papaver Orientale.

ORIENTAL POPPY; Nat. Ord. PAPAVERACEÆ.

The Oriental Poppy is a bold and showy plant, very hardy and perennial. There are several colours,
but the bright scarlet variety is the most effective. Specimens of it which have become well
established have a brilliant appearance during June; they are 3ft. high and attract the eye
from a distance. Among other large herbaceous plants, as lupines, pæonies, thalictrums, &c.,
or even mixed with dwarf shrubs, they are grandly effective; indeed, almost too much so, as
by the size and deep colour of the flowers they dazzle the eye and throw into the shade the
surrounding flowers of greater beauty. The kinds with brick-red and other shades are comparatively
useless. Their flowers are not only smaller, but wind or a few drops of rain spot the petals.
A night's dew has the same effect; the stems, too, are weak and bending, which makes them much
wanting in boldness, and when the flowers are damaged and the stems down there is little left
about the Oriental Poppies that is ornamental.

The flowers are 6in. to 8in. across when expanded, produced singly on stout round stems covered
with stiff hairs flattened down, and also distantly furnished with small pinnate leaves. Only
in some varieties is the leafy bract (Fig. 72) to be found. This variety is sometimes called
P. bracteatum. The calyx is three-parted and very rough; the six petals (see engraving) are
large, having well defined dark spots, about the size of a penny piece. The leaves are a foot
or more in length, stiff but bending; they are thickly furnished with short hairs, pinnate
and serrated.

This large poppy can be grown to an enormous size, and otherwise vastly improved by generous
treatment; in a newly trenched and well manured plot a specimen has grown 3ft. high, and produced
flowers 9in. across, the colour being fine; it will, however, do well in less favoured quarters--in
fact, it may be used to fill up any odd vacancies in the shrubbery or borders. It is readily
increased by division of the roots, and this may be done any time from autumn to February;
it also ripens seed freely.

Flowering period, May to June.

Pentstemons.

Nat. Ord. SCROPHULARIACEÆ.

The hybrids, which constitute the numerous and beautiful class commonly grown as "florists'
flowers," are the kinds now under notice. The plant, when a year old, has a half-shrubby appearance,
and if I said that it was but half hardy I should probably be nearer the mark than if I pronounced
it quite hardy. It may, therefore, appear odd that I should class it with hardy perennials;
there are, however, good reasons for doing so, and as these extra fine border plants are great
favourites and deserve all the care that flowers can be worth, I will indicate my mode of growing
them; but first I will state why the hybrid Pentstemons are here classed as hardy. One reason
is that some varieties really are so, but most are not, and more especially has that proved
to be the case during recent severe winters--the old plants, which I never trouble to take
in, are mostly killed. Another reason why I do not object to their being classed as hardy is
that cuttings or shoots from the roots appear to winter outside, if taken in the summer or
autumn and dibbled into sand or a raised bed (so that it be somewhat drier than beds of the
ordinary level), where they will readily root. Such a bed of cuttings I have found to keep
green all the winter, without any protection other than a little dry bracken. My plants are
so propagated and wintered.

The Pentstemon has of late years been much improved by hybridising, so that now the flowers,
which resemble foxgloves, are not only larger than those of the typical forms, but also brighter,
and few subjects in our gardens can vie with them for effectiveness; moreover, they are produced
for several months together on the same plants, and always have a remarkably fresh appearance.

The corolla, which can be well seen both inside and out, has the pleasing feature of clearly
pronounced colour on the outside, and rich and harmonious shadings inside; such flowers, loosely
arranged on stems about 2ft. high, more or less branched, and furnished with lance-shaped foliage
of a bright glossy green, go to make this border plant one that is justly esteemed, and which
certainly deserves the little extra care needful during winter.

It is grandly effective in rows, but if in a fully exposed position it flags during hot sunshine;
it is, therefore, a suitable plant to put among shrubs, the cool shelter of which it seems
to enjoy. The remarks I have already made respecting its hardiness sufficiently indicate the
mode of propagation. Old plants should not be depended upon, for though they are thoroughly
perennial, they are not so hardy as the younger and less woody stuff--besides, young plants
are far more vigorous bloomers.

Flowering period, June to August.

Petasites Vulgaris.

Syns. TUSSILAGO PETASITES and T. FRAGRANS; WINTER HELIOTROPE and COMMON BUTTERBUR; Nat. Ord.
COMPOSITÆ.

I must explain why this native weed, of rampant growth and perennial character, is here mentioned
as a fit subject for the garden. It blooms in the depth of winter--in fact, all winter; the
flowers are not showy at all, but they are deliciously scented, whence the specific name fragrans
and the common one "Winter Heliotrope," as resembling the scent of heliotrope. In its wild
state it does not flower so early as when under cultivation; the latter state is also more
favourable to its holding some green foliage throughout the winter. It has been said that there
are different forms--male and female, or minor and major.

Parkinson recognises two forms, and as his remarks are interesting and clearly point to the
variety under notice, I will quote him from "The Theater of Plants," page 419: "The Butter
burre is of two sorts, the one greater and the other lesser, differing also in the flowers,
as you shall heare; but because they are so like one another, one description shall serve for
them both. Each of them riseth up very early in the yeare, that is, in February, with a thicke
stalke about a foote high, whereon are set a few small leaves, or rather peeces, and at the
toppes a long spiked head of flowers, in the one which is the lesse and the more rare to finde,
wholly white and of a better sent than the other (yet some say it hath no sent), in the greater,
which is more common with us, of a blush or deepe red colour, according to the soile wherein
it groweth, the clay ground bringing a paler colour somewhat weake, and before the stalke with
the flowers have abidden a moneth above ground will be withered and gon, blowen away with the
winde, and the leaves will beginne to spring, which when they are full growne are very large
and broad, that they may very well serve to cover the whole body, or at the least the head
like an umbello from the sunne and raine."

The flowers are produced on bare, fleshy scapes, springing from amongst the old foliage; the
new leaves not appearing until much later. The bloom is small, of a pinky white colour; they
are miniature forms, resembling the coltsfoot flowers, being arranged, however, in clusters.
The leaves are large, cordate, downy, and soft to the touch, having long stout stems; they
vary much in size, from 3in. to more than a foot across, according to the nature of the soil.

The usefulness of this plant consists entirely in its flowers as cut bloom, the least bit of
which fills a large room with its most agreeable perfume. The plant, therefore, need not be
grown in the more ornamental parts of the garden, and it should have a space exclusively allotted
to it. It runs widely underground, and soon fills a large space. It enjoys moisture, but I
have proved it to be more productive of bloom with leaves of half their usual size when planted
in a rather dry situation with light but good soil. Usually a root does not produce flowers
until two years after it has been planted. Poor as the flowers otherwise are, they are of great
value in winter, when finely-scented kinds are scarce. They may be mixed with more beautiful
forms and colours so as not to be seen, when, like violets in the hedgerow, they will exhale
their grateful odour from a position of modest concealment.

Flowering period, November to February.

Phlox.

HYBRID TALL VARIETIES; SUB-SECTIONS, SUFFRUTICOSA and DECUSSATA (EARLY and LATE FLOWERING);
Nat. Ord. POLEMONIACEÆ.

These noble flowers are not only beautiful as individuals, but the cheerful appearance of our
gardens during the autumn is much indebted to them; the great variety in colour and shade is
as remarkable as it is effective. The finer sorts are known as "florists' flowers," being named.
Whence they came (from which species) is not so clear, but in other respects than form and
habit they are much in the way of P. paniculata. The Phlox family is a numerous one, and the
species are not only numerous but extremely dissimilar, consisting of the dwarf woody trailers,
or P. procumbens section, the oval-leafed section (P. ovata), the creeping or stolon-rooted
(P. stolonifera) section, and the one now under notice, which differs so widely that many have
seemed puzzled that these bold tall plants are so closely related to the prostrate, Whin-like
species. The sub-divisions of the section under notice, viz., early and late flowering varieties,
in all other respects except flowering period are similar, and any remarks of a cultural nature
are alike applicable. This favourite part of the Phlox family is honoured with a specific name,
viz., P. omniflora (all varieties of flowers), but notwithstanding that it is a most appropriate
name it is seldom applied.

As the flowers must be familiar to the reader, they need hardly be described, and it is only
necessary to mention the general features. They are produced on tall leafy stems in panicles
of different forms, as pyramidal, rounded, or flattish; the clusters of bloom are sometimes
8in. in diameter in rich soil; the corolla of five petals is mostly flat, the latter are of
a velvety substance, and coloured at their base, which in most varieties forms the "eye;" the
tube is fine and bent, so as to allow the corolla to face upwards; the calyx, too, is tubular,
the segments being deep and sharply cut; the buds abound in small clusters, and although the
flowers are of a somewhat fugacious character, their place is quickly supplied with new blossoms
(the succession being long maintained) which, moreover, have always a fresh appearance from
the absence of the faded parts. The leaves, as indicated by the name suffruticosa, are arranged
on half wood stems, and, as implied by the name decussata, are arranged in pairs, the alternate
pairs being at right angles; these names are more in reference to the habit and form of the
plants than the period of flowering, which, however, they are sometimes used to indicate; the
leaves of some early kinds are leathery and shining, but for the most part they are herb-like
and hairy, acutely lance-shaped, entire, and 2in. to 5in long.

Under ordinary conditions these hybrid forms of Phlox grow into neat bushy specimens of a willow-like
appearance, 2ft. to 4ft. high, but in well-prepared richly-manured quarters they will not only
grow a foot taller, but proportionally stouter, and also produce much finer panicles of bloom;
no flower better repays liberal culture, and few there are that more deserve it. In the semi-shade
of trees, the more open parts of the shrubbery, in borders, or when special plantings are made,
it is always the same cheerful subject, sweet, fresh, and waving with the breeze; its scent
is spicy, in the way of cinnamon. The whole genus enjoys loam, but these strong-growing hybrids
have a mass of long hungry roots, and, as already hinted, if they are well fed with manure
they pay back with interest.

As cut bloom, if taken in entire panicles, they are bouquets in themselves. All are effective,
and many of the more delicate colours are exquisite, vieing with the much more cared-for bouvardias
and tender primulas.

To grow these flowers well there is nothing special about their management, but a method of
treatment may be mentioned which, from the improved form it imparts to the specimens, as well
as the more prolonged period in which extra-sized blooms are produced, is well worthy of being
adopted. When the stems are 12in. or 15in. grown, nip off the tops of all the outer ones, they
will soon break into two or four shoots. These will not only serve to "feather" down the otherwise
"leggy" specimens and render them more symmetrical, but they will produce a second crop of
flowers, and, at the same time, allow the first to develope more strongly. When the taller
stems have done flowering, or become shabby, the tops may be cut back to the height of the
under part of the then-formed buds of the early pinched shoots, and the extra light will soon
cause them to flower; they should then be tied to the old stems left in the middle; this will
quite transform the specimen, not only making it more neat and dwarf, but otherwise benefiting
it--the old worn stems will have gone, and a new set of beaming flowers will reward the operator.
The tops pinched out in the early part of the season make the best possible plants for the
following season's bloom. They root like willows in a shady place in sandy loam, and are ready
for planting in the open by midsummer, so that they have ample time to become strong before
winter. Another way to propagate these useful flower roots is to divide strong clumps in the
autumn after they have ceased to bloom.

The very earliest kinds (some three or four) begin to flower early in August, and by the middle
of the month many are in bloom; the late-flowering (decussata) section is a month later; all,
however, are continued bloomers.

Phlox Frondosa.

FRONDED P.; Nat. Ord. POLEMONIACEÆ.

A hardy creeper; one of the dwarf section, having half-woody, wiry stems. For this and many
other species of the Creeping Phlox we are indebted to North America. Of late years these beautiful
flowers have received much attention, not only from the trade, but also from amateurs, some
of whom have taken much pains in crossing the species by hybridising, notably the late Rev.
J. G. Nelson. Perhaps the most distinct and beautiful of all the dwarf Phloxes is the one which
bears his name--the white-flowered P. Nelsoni. I have selected the species P. frondosa, because
the specific name is, perhaps, beyond that of any of the others, more generally descriptive
of all the following kinds: P. divaricata, P. glaberrima, P. Nelsoni (white flowers), P. reflexa,
P. oculata, P. setacea, P. s. atropurpurea, P. s. violacæa, P. subulata, P. prostrata. These
differ but slightly from one another, so little, indeed, that many discard the distinctions;
still, they do exist, and may be clearly seen when grown close together in collections. The
flowers differ in depth of colour; the leaves of some are more recurved, crossed, twisted,
shining, or pointed, also broader and longer; the stems likewise differ; herein the distinctions
are seen, probably, more than in either flowers or leaves. Sometimes they are, in the different
species, long or short, leafy, branched, dense, arched, and divaricate, but, although at any
time when their fresh foliage is upon them, and when they are so close together that the eye
can take them all in at a glance, their distinctions are fairly clear, autumn is the time to
see them in their most definite and beautiful form. Like many other North American plants,
they have lovely autumnal tints, then their forms have rich glistening colours, and they are
seen to not only differ considerably, but, perhaps, to more advantage than when in flower;
but let me add at once that I have only proved these plants to take such rich autumnal colours
when they have been grown so as to rest on stones, which not only keep them from excess of
moisture, from worm casts, &c., but secure for them a healthy circulation of air under their
dense foliage. From the above, then, it will be seen that a general description of P. frondosa
will apply to the other species and varieties mentioned.

The flowers are lilac-rose; calyx, tubular; corolla of five petals, narrow and notched; leaves,
awl-shaped, short, bent, and opposite; stems, branched, dense and trailing.

The dwarf Phloxes are pre-eminently rock plants, as which they thrive well; when raised from
the ground level, so as to be nearly in the line of sight, they are very effective. They should
be so planted that they can fall over the stones, like the one from which the illustration
(Fig. 74) was drawn. For at least a fortnight the plants are literally covered with flowers,
and at all times they form neat rock plants, though in winter they have the appearance of short
withered grass; even then the stems are full of health, and in early spring they become quickly
furnished with leaves and flowers. These Phloxes make good edgings. Notwithstanding their dead
appearance in winter, a capital suggestion occurred to me by an accidental mixture of croci
with the Phlox. At the time when the latter is most unseasonable the crocuses, which should
be planted in the same line, may be seen coming through the browned foliage. When in flower,
the blooms will not only be supported by this means, but also be preserved from splashes; when
the crocuses are past their prime, the Phlox will have begun to grow, and, to further its well
doing, its stems should be lifted and the then lengthened foliage of the crocuses should be
drawn back to the under side of the Phlox, where it might remain to die off. This would allow
the Phlox to have the full light, and the arrangement would be suitable for the edge of a shrubbery
or border of herbaceous plants, or even along the walks of a kitchen garden.

The Phloxes are easily propagated, either from rooted layers or cuttings. The latter should
be put into a good loam and kept shaded for a week or two. Early spring is the best time.

Flowering period, March to May.

Physalis Alkekengi.

WINTER CHERRY; Nat. Ord. SOLANACEÆ.

This plant begins to flower in summer; but as a garden subject its blossom is of no value;
the fine large berries, however, which are suspended in orange-yellow husks of large size,
are very ornamental indeed, and form a very pleasing object amongst other "autumnal tints."
It is not till October that the fruit begins to show its richness of colour. The plant is quite
hardy, though a native of southern Europe; it is also herbaceous and perennial, and it has
been grown in this country for 330 years. Still, it is not to be seen in many gardens. An old
common name for it was "Red Nightshade," and Gerarde gives a capital illustration of it in
his Herbal, under the name Solanum Halicacabum.

P. Alkekengi grows to the height of about two feet. The stems of the plant are very curious,
being somewhat zigzag in shape, swollen at the nodes, with sharp ridges all along the stems;
otherwise, they are round and smooth. The leaves are produced in twins, their long stalks issuing
from the same part of the joint; they are of various forms and sizes, but mostly heart-shaped,
somewhat acute, and 2in. to 4in. long. The little soft creamy white flowers spring from the
junction of the twin leaf-stalks; their anthers are bulky for so small a flower. The calyx
continues to grow after the flower has faded, and forms the Chinese-lantern-like covering of
the scarlet berry; the latter will be over ½in. in diameter, and the orange-coloured calyx
1½in., when fully developed. In autumn the older stems cast their leaves early, when the finely-coloured
fruit shows to advantage; the younger stems keep green longer, and continue to flower until
stopped by the frost. To this short description I may add that of Gerarde, which is not only
clear but pleasantly novel: "The red winter Cherrie bringeth foorth stalkes a cubite long,
rounde, slender, smooth, and somewhat reddish, reeling this way and that way by reason of his
weakness, not able to stande vpright without a support: whereupon do growe leaues not vnlike
to those of common nightshade, but greater; among which leaues come foorth white flowers, consisting
of five small leaues; in the middle of which leaues standeth out a berrie, greene at the first,
and red when it is ripe, in colour of our common Cherrie and of the same bignesse, which is
enclosed in a thinne huske or little bladder of a pale reddish colour, in which berrie is conteined
many small flat seedes of a pale colour. The rootes be long, not vnlike to the rootes of Couch
grasse, ramping and creeping within the vpper crust of the earth farre abroade, whereby it
encreaseth greatly."

The stems, furnished with fruit of good colour, but otherwise bare, make capital decorations
for indoors, when mixed with tall grasses, either fresh or dried, and for such purposes this
plant is worth growing; any kind of soil will do, in an out-of-the-way part, but if in shade,
the rich colour will be wanting.

Flowering period, June to frosts.

Podophyllum Peltatum.

DUCK'S-FOOT, sometimes called MAY APPLE; Nat. Ord. PODOPHYLLACEÆ.

A hardy herbaceous perennial from North America, more or less grown in English gardens since
1664. As may be seen from the illustration (Fig. 75), it is an ornamental plant, and though
its flowers are interesting, they are neither showy nor conspicuous, as, from the peculiar
manner in which they are produced, they are all but invisible until sought out. Its leaves
and berries constitute the more ornamental parts of the plant.

The flowers are white, not unlike the small white dog-rose in both size and form; the calyx
is of three leaves, which fall off; the corolla, of six to nine petals; peduncle nearly an
inch long, which joins the stem at the junction of the two leaf stalks, only one flower being
produced on a stem or plant. The leaves join the rather tall and naked stem by stalks, 2in.
to 3in. long; they are handsome in both form and habit. As the specific name implies, the leaves
are peltate or umbrella-shaped, deeply lobed, each lobe being deeply cut, and all unevenly
toothed and hairy at the edges, with a fine down covering the under sides; the upper surface
is of a lively, shining green colour, and finely veined. The flower is succeeded by a large
one-celled ovate berry, in size and form something like a damson, but the colour is yellow
when ripe, at which stage the berry becomes more conspicuous than the flower could be, from
the manner in which the young leaves were held.

We want cheerful-looking plants for the bare parts under trees, and this is a suitable one,
provided the surface soil has a good proportion of vegetable matter amongst it, and is rather
moist. The thick horizontal roots creep near the surface, so it will be seen how important
it is to secure them against drought otherwise than by depth of covering; a moist and shady
position, then, is indispensable. In company with trilliums, hellebores, anemones, and ferns,
this graceful plant would beautifully associate. Another way to grow it is in pots, when exactly
the required kind of compost can easily be given, viz., peat and chopped sphagnum. Thus potted,
plunged in wet sand, and placed in a northern aspect, it will be found not only to thrive well,
as several specimens have done with me, but also to be worth all the trouble. To propagate
it, the long creeping roots should be cut in lengths of several inches, and to a good bud or
crown. When so cut in the autumn, I have proved them to rot when planted, but others buried
in sand until February, and then planted, have done well.

Flowering period, May and June.

Polyanthus.

Nat. Ord. PRIMULACEÆ.

This, with its numerous varieties, comes under Primula veris, or the common Cowslip. The improved
varieties which have sprung from this native beauty of our meadows and hedgerows are innumerable,
and include the rich "gold-laced" kinds--which are cared for like children and are annually
placed on the exhibition tables--as well as the homely kinds, which grow in the open borders
by the hundred. The Polyanthus is eminently a flower for English gardens; and this country
is noted for the fine sorts here raised, our humid climate suiting the plant in every way;
its flowers offer a variety of colour, an odour of the sweetest kind, full and rich, reminding
us not only of spring time, but of youthful rambles and holidays.

As an "old-fashioned" flower for garden decoration it is effective and useful, from the great
quantity of bloom it sends forth and the length of its flowering season; from its love of partial
shade it may be planted almost anywhere. Its neat habit, too, fits it for scores of positions
in which we should scarcely think of introducing less modest kinds; such nooks and corners
of our gardens should be made to beam with these and kindred flowers, of which we never have
too many. Plant them amongst bulbs, whose leaves die off early, and whose flowers will look
all the happier for their company in spring; plant them under all sorts of trees, amongst the
fruit bushes, and where only weeds have appeared, perhaps, for years; dig and plant the Polyanthus,
and make the wilderness like Eden.

Flowering period, February to June.

Polygonum Brunonis.

KNOTWEED; Nat. Ord. POLYGONACEÆ.

This is a dwarf species from India, but quite hardy. It is pretty, interesting, and useful.
The flowers are produced on erect stems a foot high, and formed in spikes 3in. to 5in. long,
which are as soft as down and smell like heather. The colour is a soft rose. These flowers
spring from a dense mass of rich foliage; the leaves in summer and early autumn are of a pleasing
apple-green colour, smooth, oblong, and nearly spoon-shaped from the narrowing of the lower
part; the mid-rib is prominent and nearly white; the leaf has rolled edges, and is somewhat
reflexed at the point. Let the reader closely examine the leaves of this species while in their
green state, holding them up to a strong light, and he will then behold the beauty and finish
of Nature to a more than ordinary degree. This subject is one having the finest and most lasting
of "autumnal tints," the dense bed of leaves turn to a rich brick-red, and, being persistent,
they form a winter ornament in the border or on rockwork. The habit of the plant is creeping,
rooting as it goes. It is a rampant grower, and sure to kill any dwarf subject that may be
in its way.

It may be grown in any kind of soil, and almost in any position, but it loves sunshine. If
its fine lambtail-shaped flowers are desired, it should be grown on the flat, but, for its
grand red autumnal leaf tints, it should be on the upper parts of rockwork. It is self-propagating,
as already hinted.

The flowers prove capital for dressing epergnes. I had not seen them so used, until the other
day a lady visitor fancied a few spikes, and when I called at her house a day or two later
saw them mixed with white flowers and late flowering forget-me-nots--they were charming.

Flowering period, August to the time of frosts.

Polygonum Cuspidatum.

CUSPID KNOTWEED; Nat. Ord. POLYGONACEÆ.

A recent introduction from China, perfectly hardy, shrub-like but herbaceous; a rampant grower,
attaining the height of 6ft. or 7ft., and spreading fast by means of root suckers. During the
early spring it pushes its fleshy shoots, and the coloured leaves, which are nearly red, are
very pleasing; as they unfold they are seen to be richly veined, and are as handsome as the
beautiful Fittonias, so much admired as hothouse plants.

The long slender stems grow apace, and when the growth has been completed the flowers issue
from the axils of the leaves; they are in the form of drooping feathery panicles, 4in. to 5in.
long, creamy white, and produced in clusters, lasting for three weeks or more in good condition.
The leaves are 3in. to 4in. long, nearly heart-shaped but pointed, entire, and stalked, of
good substance, and a pale green colour; they are alternately and beautifully arranged along
the gracefully-arching stems. The specimens are attractive even when not in bloom. If the roots
are allowed to run in their own way for two or three years they form a charming thicket, which
must prove a pleasant feature in any large garden.

All through the summer its branches are used as dressings for large vases, and, either alone
or with bold flowers, they prove most useful. In the shrubbery, where it can bend over the
grass, from its distinct colour and graceful habit, it proves not only an effective but a convenient
subject, as it allows the mowing machine to work without hindrance or damage. It is a capital
plant for the small town garden. After sending to a friend several hampers of plants season
after season, all without satisfactory results, owing to the exceptionally bad atmosphere of
the neighbourhood, I sent him some of this, and it has proved suitable in every way.

Flowering period, July and August.

P. c. compactum is a variety of the above. It is, however, very distinct in the way implied
by its name, being more compact and rigid, and not more than half as tall. The leaves, too,
are somewhat crimped, and of a much darker colour, the stems are nearly straight and ruddy,
and the flowers are in more erect racemes, the colour yellowish-white. It forms a handsome
bush, but is without the graceful habit of the type. Like the other knotweeds described, it
enjoys a sandy loam, and requires nothing in the way of special culture. The roots may be transplanted
or divided when the tops have withered.

Polygonum Filiformis Variegatum.

KNOTWEED; Nat. Ord. POLYGONACEÆ.

Very hardy and effective. I simply mention this as a foliage plant. The leaves are large, drooping,
and finely splashed or marbled with pale green and yellow, in shape oval-oblong, being crimped
between the veins. It is a scarce variety. Fine for the sub-tropical garden. Culture, the same
as for all the Knotweeds.

Flowering period, late summer.

Polygonum Vaccinifolium.

VACCINIUM-LEAVED KNOTWEED; Nat. Ord. POLYGONACEÆ.

It may seem odd that we should go into the Dock family for plants and flowers for our gardens;
still we may, and find some truly beautiful species. The above-named is a charming alpine,
coming from the Himalayas, and proves perfectly hardy in our climate; it is seldom met with
and cannot be generally known, otherwise it would be more patronised; it forms a pretty dwarf
shrub, with woody slender stems, clothed with small shining foliage.

The flowers are very small, resembling those of the smaller ericas, and of a fine rosy colour;
the unopened ones are even more pretty, having a coral-like effect; they are arranged in neat
spikes, about 2in. long, and tapering to a fine point; they are numerously produced all along
the procumbent branches, becoming erect therefrom. As the specific name denotes, the leaves
are Vaccinium-like--i.e., small and oval, like box, but not so stout; they are closely set
on the stems, are of a pale shining green, and somewhat bent or rolled. The habit is exceedingly
neat, and, when in flower, a good specimen is a pleasing object; it is only a few inches high,
but spreads quickly.

On rockwork it seems quite at home. My example has shade from the mid-day sun, and, without
saying that it should have shade, I may safely say that it does well with it. The plant will
thrive in sandy loam and is readily increased by putting small stones on the trailing stems,
which soon root.

The leafy stems, with their coral-like, miniature spires, are useful in a cut state, so pretty,
in fact, that it does not require any skill to "bring them in."

Flowering period, August to the frosts.

Potentilla Fruticosa.

SHRUBBY CINQUEFOIL; Nat. Ord. ROSACEÆ.

In mountainous woods this native deciduous shrub is found wild, and it is much grown in gardens,
where it not only proves very attractive, but from its dwarf habit and flowering throughout
the summer and autumn months, it helps to keep the borders or rock garden cheerful.

The flowers, which are lemon yellow, are in form like those of its relative, the strawberry,
but smaller; they are produced in terminal small bunches, but seldom are more than two or three
open at the same time, and more often only one; but from the numerous branchlets, all of which
produce bloom, there seems to be no lack of colour. In gardens it grows somewhat taller than
in its wild state, and if well exposed to the sun it is more floriferous, and the individual
flowers larger.

It attains the height of 2ft. 6in.; the flowers are 1in. across; the petals apart; calyx and
bracteæ united; ten parted; each flower has a short and slender stalk. The leaves are 2in.
or more in length, pinnate, five but oftener seven parted, the leaflets being oblong, pointed,
entire and downy; the leaf stalks are very slender, and hardly an inch long; they spring from
the woody stems or branches, which are of a ruddy colour, and also downy. The habit of the
shrub is densely bushy, and the foliage has a greyish green colour from its downiness.

This subject may be planted in any part of the garden where a constant blooming and cheerful
yellow flower is required; it is pretty but not showy; its best quality, perhaps, is its neatness.
It enjoys a vegetable soil well drained, and propagates itself by its creeping roots, which
push up shoots or suckers at short spaces from the parent stock.

Flowering period, summer to early frosts.

Pratia Repens.

Syn. LOBELIA PRATIANA; CREEPING PRATIA; sometimes called LOBELIA REPENS; Nat. Ord. LOBELIACEÆ.

In October this small creeper is a very pretty object on rockwork, when the earlier bloom has
become changed into oval fruit-pods. These berry-like capsules are large for so small a plant,
and of a bright and pleasing colour. These, together with the few flowers that linger, backed
up, as they are, with a dense bed of foliage, interlaced with its numerous filiform stems,
present this subject in its most interesting and, perhaps, its prettiest form.

The flowers may be called white, but they have a violet tint, and are over half-an-inch in
length. The calyx is adnate in relation to the ovarium, limb very short, but free and five-toothed;
the corolla is funnel-shaped, but split at the back, causing it to appear one-sided. The solitary
flowers are produced on rather long stems from the axils of the leaves. As they fade the calyces
become fleshy and much enlarged, and resemble the fruit of the hawthorn when ripe. The leaves
are distantly arranged on the creeping stems, ½in. long, oval, roundly toothed and undulated,
fleshy, somewhat glaucous and petiolate. The habit of the plant is to root as it creeps, and
the thread-like stems intersect each other in a pleasing way. They are to be seen distinctly,
as the leaves are not only small, but distant, and seem to rest on a lattice-work of stems.
This species comes from the Falkland Islands, and is of recent introduction.

It is herbaceous and perennial, and proves hardy in this climate if planted on a well-drained
soil of a vegetable character. It not only enjoys such a position as the slope of rockwork,
but, when so placed, it may be seen to advantage. It should be free from shade, or the fruit
will not colour well. It will therefore be seen that this is a rock plant, so far as its decorative
qualities are concerned. It may, however, be grown well on flat beds of peat soil, where its
fruit will mature finely, but it cannot be so well seen. It is self-propagating. Transplantings
should be made in spring, or tufts may be placed in pots, during the autumn, and put in cold
frames, as then they would not suffer displacement by frosts.

Flowering period, June to frosts.

Primula Acaulis.

Syn. P. VULGARIS, COMMON PRIMROSE; Nat. Ord. PRIMULACEÆ.

This common native flower needs no description, growing everywhere, yet we all seem to enjoy
its company in our gardens, though it may, perhaps, be seen wild close by. It is a flower of
more interest than ordinary, and to the florist of some importance. The great variety of double
and single primroses have all sprung from this, the modest form found in our woods and damp
hedgerows, and the number is being added to year by year. The generic name is in allusion to
a quality--that of early or first flowering. The specific name, acaulis, is in reference to
its stemlessness, which is its main distinguishing feature from the Polyanthus and Oxlip (P.
veris). I may add, that from the great variety of P. acaulis and P. veris, and their mutual
resemblance in many instances, the casual observer may often find in this feature a ready means
by which to identify a specimen. Of course, there are other points by which the different species
can be recognised, even when the scape is out of sight, but I am now speaking of their general
likeness to each other in early spring.

Common Cowslips or Paigles (P. veris), great Cowslips or Oxlips (P. elatior), field primrose
or large-flowered primrose (P. acaulis), were all in olden times called by the general name
of primrose, the literal meaning of which is first-rose. Old authorities give us many synonymous
names for this plant, as P. grandiflora, P. vulgaris, P. sylvestris, and P. veris. The last
is given by three authorities, including Linnæus. As this seems to clash hard with the name
as applied to the Cowslip species, I may at once state that Linnæus has only that one name
for the three species, viz: P. acaulis, P. elatior, P. veris; the name P. vulgaris, by another
authority, is explained by the same rule; Curtis (Flora Londinensis) is the authority for the
name P. acaulis.

I need not here go into any of the varieties, beyond giving a cursory glance at them as a whole.
The double kinds are all beautiful, some superb and rare, as the ruby and crimson; the white,
sulphur, mauve, magenta, and other less distinct double forms are more easily grown, and in
some parts are very plentiful. The single kinds have even a more extensive range in colour.
We have now fine reds and what are called blue primrose; the latter variety is not a blue,
but certainly a near approach to it. It is an interesting occupation to raise the coloured
primroses from seed, not only because of the pleasing kinds which may be so obtained, but under
cultivation, as in a wild state, seedlings are always seen to be the more vigorous plants;
self-sown seed springs up freely on short grass, sandy walks, and in half-shaded borders; but
when it is sought to improve the strain, not only should seedlings be regularly raised, but
it should be done systematically, when it will be necessary, during the blooming season, to
look over the flowers daily and remove inferior kinds as soon as proved, so that neither their
seed nor pollen can escape and be disseminated. This part of the operation alone will, in a
few years, where strictly carried out, cause a garden to become famous for its primroses. Seasonable
sowing, protection from slugs, and liberal treatment are also of the utmost importance.

Briefly stated, the modus operandi should be as follows: Sow the seed at the natural season,
soon as ripe, on moist vegetable soil; do not cover it with more than a mere dash of sand;
the aspect should be north, but with a little shade any other will do; the seedlings will be
pretty strong by the time of the early frosts; about that time they should, on dry days, have
three or four slight dressings of soot and quicklime; it should be dusted over them with a
"dredge" or sieve; this may be expected to clear them of the slug pest, after which a dressing
of sand and half-rotten leaves may be scattered over them; this will not only keep them fresh
and plump during winter, but also protect them from the effects of wet succeeded by frost,
which often lifts such things entirely out of the earth. In March, plant out in well enriched
loam, in shady quarters; many will flower in late spring. Another plan would be to leave them
in the seed bed if not too rank, where most would flower; in either case, the seed bed might
be left furnished with undisturbed seedlings. The main crop of bloom should not be looked for
until the second spring after the summer sowing.

The double forms are not only less vigorous, but the means of propagation are limited; offsets
of only healthy stock should be taken in early summer. A rich retentive loam suits them, or
moist vegetable soil would do: shade, however, is the great desideratum; exposure to full sunshine
harms them, even if well moistened at the roots; besides, in such positions red spider is sure
to attack them. This mode of propagation is applicable to desirable single varieties, as they
cannot be relied upon to produce stock true to themselves from seed. In planting offsets it
is a good practice to put them in rather deeply; not only are the new roots emitted from above
the old ones, but the heart of the offset seems to be sustained during the warm and, perhaps,
dry weather, by being set a trifle below the surface. This I have ever proved to be a sure
and quick method in the open garden.

Flowering period, February to June.

Primula Capitata.

ROUND-HEADED PRIMULA; Nat. Ord. PRIMULACEÆ.

Hardy, herbaceous, and perennial. Before referring to this Primula in particular, I would say
a word or two respecting hardy and alpine Primulæ in general. It may appear strange and, on
my part, somewhat presumptuous, when I state that this section of the Primula family is little
known. Gardeners, both old and young, who have seen them in collections, have asked what they
were as they stood over them admiring their lovely flowers. They are, however, very distinct
on the one hand from the primrose (Primula vulgaris or acaulis) and polyanthus (Primula elatior)
sections; and also from the P. sinensis section--the species with so many fine double and single
varieties, much grown in our greenhouses, and which, of course, are not hardy. The hardy and
distinct species to which I now allude are mostly from alpine habitats, of stunted but neat
forms, widely distinct, and very beautiful.

The British representatives of this class are Primula farinosa and P. Scotica, but from nearly
all parts of the temperate zone these lovely subjects have been imported. It may not be out
of place to name some of them: P. Allioni, France; P. amoena, Caucasus; P. auricula, Switzerland;
P. Carniolica, Carniola; P. decora, South Europe; P. glaucescens and P. grandis, Switzerland;
P. glutinosa, South Europe; P. latifolia, Pyrenees; P. longifolia, Levant; P. marginata, Switzerland;
P. minima, South Europe; P. nivalis, Dahuria; P. villosa, Switzerland; P. viscosa, Piedmont;
P. Wulfeniana, P. spectabilis, P. denticulata, P. luteola, P. Tirolensis, and others, from
the Himalayas and North America, all of which I have proved to be of easy culture, either on
rockwork, or in pots and cold frames, where, though they may be frozen as hard as the stones
amongst which their roots delight to run, they are perfectly safe. The treatment they will
not endure is a confined atmosphere.

P. capitata, which is a native of Sikkim, is still considered to be new in this country, though
it was flowered at Kew about thirty years ago, but it has only become general in its distribution
during the past three or four years.

The flowers are borne on stems which are very mealy, and 6in. to 9in. high; the head of bloom
is round and dense, 1½in. across. The outer pips are first developed, and as they fade the
succeeding rings or tiers extend and hide them. The very smallest in the centre of the head
remain covered with the farina-like substance, and form a beautiful contrast to the deep violet-blue
of the opened, and the lavender-blue of the unopened pips. One head of bloom will last fully
four weeks. The denseness and form of the head, combined with the fine colour of the bloom,
are the chief points which go to make this Primula very distinct. The leaves, which are arranged
in rosette form, are otherwise very pretty, having a mealy covering on the under side, sometimes
of a golden hue; they are also finely wrinkled and toothed, giving the appearance, in small
plants, of a rosette of green feathers. Sometimes the leaves are as large as a full-grown polyanthus
leaf, whilst other plants, which have flowered equally well, have not produced foliage larger
than that of primroses, when having their earliest flowers.

It makes a fine pot subject, but will not endure a heated greenhouse. It should be kept in
a cold frame, with plenty of air. It may be planted on rockwork where it will not get the mid-day
sun. I hear that it grows like grass with a correspondent whose garden soil is stiff loam;
there it seeds and increases rapidly. My first experience with it was troublesome; when dying
down in the winter, the leaves, which are persistent, seemed to collect moisture at the collar
and cause it to rot. I tried planting not quite so deeply, and I imagine that it has proved
a remedy. So choice a garden subject should not be passed by because it cannot be dibbled in
and grown as easily as a cabbage. Old plants produce offsets which, as soon as the April showers
come, may be transplanted in loamy soil and a shady situation. Propagation may also be carried
on by seed when well ripened, but that has not been my experience of it hitherto.

Flowering period, April to June.

Primula Cashmerianum.

CASHMERE PRIMROSE; Nat Ord. PRIMULACEÆ.

This belongs to the large-leaved and herbaceous section, and though it comes (as its name specifies)
from a much warmer climate than ours, its habitat was found at a great altitude, and it has
been proved to be perfectly hardy in North Britain. This species is comparatively new to English
gardens, but it has already obtained great favour and is much grown (see Fig. 76). No collection
of Primulæ can well be without it; its boldness, even in its young state, is the first characteristic
to draw attention, for with the leaf development there goes on that of the scape. For a time
the foliage has the form of young cos lettuce, but the under sides are beautifully covered
with a meal resembling gold dust. This feature of the plant is best seen at the early stage
of its growth, as later on the leaves bend or flatten to the ground in rosette form, the rosettes
being often more than 12in. across. The golden farina varies in both quantity and depth of
colour on different plants.

The flower scape is from 9in. to 12in. high, nearly as stout as a clay pipe stem, and very
mealy, thickening near the top. The flowers, which are small, of a light purple colour, and
having a yellow eye, are densely arranged in globular trusses, each lasting more than a fortnight
in beauty. The leaves when resting on the ground show their finely serrated edges and pleasing
pale green, which contrasts oddly with the under sides of those still erect, the latter being
not only of a golden colour, as already mentioned, but their edges are turned, almost rolled under.

This plant loves moisture; and it will adorn any position where it can be well grown; it will
also endure any amount of sunshine if it has plenty of moisture at the roots, and almost any
kind of soil will do except clay, but peat and sand are best for it, according to my experience.
During winter the crown is liable to rot, from the amount of moisture which lodges therein
somewhat below the ground level; latterly I have placed a piece of glass over them, and I do
not remember to have lost one so treated. Offsets are but sparingly produced by this species;
propagation is more easily carried out by seed, from which plants will sometimes flower the
first year.

Flowering period, March to May.

Primula Denticulata.

TOOTHED PRIMULA; Nat. Ord. PRIMULACEÆ.

This is one of that section of the Primrose family having stout scapes and compact heads of
bloom. It is a comparatively recent introduction from the Himalayas, a true alpine, and perfectly
hardy in this climate. As a garden flower, it has much merit, blooming early and profusely.
It cannot be too highly commended for its fine form as a plant and beauty as a flower, more
especially as seen on rockwork. The flower buds begin in very early spring to rise on their
straight round stems, new foliage being developed at the same time.

The flowers are arranged in dense round clusters, and are often in their finest form when nearly
a foot high. They are of a light purple colour, each flower ½in. across, corolla prettily cupped,
segments two-lobed, greenish white at bases, tube long and cylindrical, calyx about half length
of tube, teeth rather long and of a dark brown colour. The scape is somewhat dark-coloured,
especially near the apex. The leaves are arranged in rosette form, are lance-shaped, rolled
back at the edges and toothed, also wrinkled and downy; they continue to grow long after the
flowers have faded.

Delicate as the flowers seem, they stand the roughest storms without much hurt.

P. d. major is a larger form in all its parts.

P. d. nana is more dwarfed than the type.

P. d. amabilis is a truly lovely form, having darker foliage and rosy buds; its habit, too,
is even more neat and upright, and the blooming period earlier by about two weeks.

A moist position and vegetable mould suit it best, according to my experience, and the dips
of rockwork are just the places for it, not exactly in the bottom, for the following reason:
The large crowns are liable to rot from wet standing in them, and if the plants are set in
a slope it greatly helps to clear the crowns of stagnant moisture. Propagation is by means
of offsets, which should be taken during the growing season, so that they may form good roots
and become established before winter.

Flowering period, March to May.

Primula Farinosa.

MEALY PRIMROSE, or BIRD'S-EYE; Nat. Ord. PRIMULACEÆ.

The pretty native species, very common in a wild state in some parts, near which, of course,
it need not be grown in gardens; but as its beauty is unquestionable, and as there are many
who do not know it, and evidently have never seen it, it ought to have a place in the garden.
It is herbaceous and perennial. All its names are strictly descriptive. The little centre has
a resemblance to a bird's eye, and the whole plant is thickly covered with a meal-like substance.
Small as this plant is, when properly grown it produces a large quantity of bloom for cutting
purposes.

It is 3in. to 8in. high, according to the situation in which it is grown. The flowers are light
purple, only ½in. across, arranged in neat umbels; the corolla is flat, having a bright yellow
centre; leaves small, ovate-oblong, roundly toothed, bald, and powdery beneath; the flower
scapes are round and quite white, with a meal-like covering.

In stiff soil and a damp situation this little gem does well, or it will be equally at home
in a vegetable soil, such as leaf mould or peat, but there must be no lack of moisture, and
it is all the better for being screened from the mid-day sun, as it would be behind a hedge
or low wall. So freely does it bloom, that it is not only worth a place in the garden, but
repays all the trouble required to establish it in proper quarters, after which it will take
care of itself, by producing offsets and seedlings in abundance.

Flowering period, April to June.

Primula Marginata.

Syn. P. CRENATA; MARGINED PRIMROSE; Nat. Ord. PRIMULACEÆ.

A native of Switzerland, so rich in alpine flowers; this is but a small species, yet very distinct
and conspicuous (see Fig. 77). As its specific name denotes, its foliage has a bold margin,
as if stitched with white silken thread, and the whole plant is thickly covered with a mealy
substance. So distinct in these respects is this lovely species that, with, perhaps, one exception,
it may easily be identified from all others, P. auricula marginata being the one that most
resembles it, that species also being edged and densely covered with farina, but its foliage
is larger, not toothed, and its flowers yellow.

P. marginata has bright but light violet flowers on very short scapes, seldom more than 3in.
high; these and the calyx also are very mealy. The little leaves are of various shapes, and
distinctly toothed, being about the size of the bowl of a dessert spoon. They are neatly arranged
in tufts on a short footstalk, which becomes surrounded with young growths, all as clear in
their markings as the parent plant, so that a well grown specimen of three years or even less
becomes a beautiful object, whether it is on rockwork or in a cold frame.

The flowers are produced and remain in good form for two or three weeks on strong plants, and
for nearly the whole year the plant is otherwise attractive.

I scarcely need mention that such plants with mealy and downy foliage are all the better for
being sheltered from wind and rain. In a crevice, overhung by a big stone, but where the rockwork
is so constructed that plenty of moisture is naturally received, a specimen has done very well
indeed, besides keeping its foliage dry and perfect. When such positions can either be found
or made, they appear to answer even better than frames, as alpine species cannot endure a stagnant
atmosphere, which is the too common lot of frame subjects. It is not very particular as to
soil or situation. I grow it both in shade and fully exposed to the mid-day sun of summer,
and, though a healthy specimen is grown in loam, I find others to do better in leaf mould mixed
with grit and pebbles. It enjoys a rare immunity--the slugs let it alone, or at least my slugs
do, for it is said that different tribes or colonies have different tastes. To propagate it,
the little offsets about the footstalk should be cut off with a sharp knife when the parent
plant has finished flowering; they will mostly be found to have nice long roots. Plant in leaf
soil and grit, and keep them shaded for a month.

Flowering period, March to May.

Primula Purpurea.

PURPLE-FLOWERED PRIMULA; Nat. Ord. PRIMULACEÆ.

A truly grand primrose of the same section as P. denticulata, coming also from an alpine habitat,
viz., the higher elevations of the Himalayas. It has not long been in cultivation in this country
compared with our knowledge of the Himalayan flora. It is perfectly hardy, but seems to require
rather drier situations than most of the large-leaved kinds. I never saw it so fine as when
grown on a hillock of rockwork in sand and leaf mould; the specimen had there stood two severe
winters, and in the spring of 1881 we were gladdened by its pushing in all directions fifteen
scapes, all well topped by its nearly globular heads of fine purple flowers. It begins to flower
in March, and keeps on for quite a month.

The flower stems are 9in. high, stout, and covered with a mealy dust, thickest near the top
and amongst the small bracts. The umbels of blossom are 2in. to 3in. across, each flower nearly
¾in. in diameter, the corolla being salver shaped and having its lobed segments pretty well
apart; the tube is long and somewhat bellied where touched by the teeth of the calyx; the latter
is more than half the length of tube, of a pale green colour, and the teeth, which are long,
awl shaped, and clasping, impart to the tubes of the younger flowers a fluted appearance; later
on they become relaxed and leafy. The leaves have a strong, broad, pale green, shining mid-rib,
are lance-shaped, nearly smooth, wavy, and serrulated; the upper surface is of a lively green
colour, and the under side has a similar mealy covering to that of the scape. Flowers and leaves
develope at the same time, the latter being 8in. long and of irregular arrangement.

The exceedingly floriferous character of this otherwise handsome primula renders it one of
the very best subjects for the spring garden; it should have a place in the most select collections,
as well as in more general assemblages of plants, for not only does it take care of itself
when once properly planted, but it increases fast, forming noble tufts a foot in diameter,
than which few things give a finer effect or an equal quantity of flowers at a time when they
are not too plentiful. As already hinted, it should have a somewhat drier position than P.
denticulata, but by no means should it suffer from drought, and a little shade will be beneficial.
Propagated by division during the growing season, immediately after flowering being the best time.

Flowering period, March and April.

Primula Scotica.

SCOTTISH PRIMROSE; Nat. Ord. PRIMULACEÆ.

This charming little member of the British flora very much resembles the native Bird's-eye
Primrose (P. farinosa), which is very common in some parts. It is not uniformly conceded to
be a distinct species, but many botanists believe it to be such. As a matter of fact, it is
different from P. farinosa in several important points, though they are not seen at a mere
glance. That it has darker flowers and a more dwarf and sturdy habit may, indeed, be readily
seen when the two are side by side. Size and colour, however, would not in this case appear
to be the most distinctive features. The seed organs differ considerably. "In P. farinosa the
germen is broadly obovate and the stigma capitate; here the germen is globose and the stigma
has five points." But there is another dissimilarity which may or may not prove much to the
botanist, but to the lover of flowers who tries to cultivate them it is all-important. Whilst
P. farinosa can be easily grown in various soils and positions, in the same garden P. Scotica
refuses to live; so fickle, indeed, is it, that were it not a very lovely flower that can be
grown and its fastidious requirements easily afforded, it would not have been classed in this
list of garden subjects. Here it begins to blossom in the middle of March at the height of
3in. In its habitats in Caithness and the north coast of Sutherland it is considerably later--April
and May.

The flowers are arranged in a crowded umbel on a short stoutish scape; they are of a deep-bluish
purple, with a yellow eye; the divisions of the corolla are flat and lobed; calyx nearly as
long as tube, and ventricose or unevenly swollen. The whole flower is much less than P. farinosa.
The leaves are also smaller than those of that species; obovate, lanceolate, denticulate, and
very mealy underneath.

To grow it requires not only a light but somewhat spongy soil, as peat and sand, but it should
never be allowed to get dry at the roots; a top dressing during summer of sand and half decayed
leaves is a great help to it, for the roots are not only then very active, going deep and issuing
from the base of the leaves, but they require something they can immediately grow into when
just forming, and to be protected from drought. It will be well to remember that its principal
habitats are on the sandy shores, as that gives a proper idea of the bottom moisture, and,
from the looseness of the sand, the drier condition of the immediate surface. My specimens
have always dwindled during summer and failed to appear the following spring, excepting where
such treatment as the above has been adopted. I am much indebted for these hints to several
amateurs, who grow it well. That many fail with it is evidenced by the facts that it is in
great demand every spring and that there are few sources of supply other than its wild home.
Never was it more sought for, perhaps, than at the present time, not only by amateurs at home,
but by both private and trade growers abroad. The exquisite beauty of this primrose when well
grown and the technical care required to have it in that condition are both things of which
any plant lover may be proud.

If once established, its propagation is scarcely an affair of the cultivator's; the self-sown
seed appears to germinate with far more certainty when left alone, and, as the plants are always
very small, they hardly need to be transplanted. If left alone, though they are often much
less than an inch across, many will flower the first season. Some have taken it as something
of a biennial character. The treatment is at fault when it gives cause for such impressions;
its perennial quality is both authorised and proved under cultivation.

Flowering period, March to May.

Primula Sikkimensis.

Nat. Ord. PRIMULACEÆ.

The specific name of this noble and lovely plant has reference to its habitat, Sikkim, in the
Himalayas, where it was found not many years ago. It is not largely cultivated yet--probably
not well known. It may, however, be frequently met with in choice collections, where no plant
is more worthy of a place. Its general character may be said to be very distinct, especially
when in flower. It is herbaceous, hardy, and perennial. Its hardiness has been questioned for
several years, but the winters of 1880 and 1881 settled that beyond the region of doubt. I
had then many plants of it fully exposed, without even a top-dressing, which is sometimes given
to plants of unquestionable hardiness, and they stood the winters as well as their kindred
species--our common Cowslip. It was also said to be not more than biennial, as if it were a
plant too good to be without some fatal fault for our climate. However, I can say emphatically
that it is more than biennial, as the specimens from which the drawing (Fig. 78) is taken are
three years old. Several correspondents have written me stating that their plants are dead.
That has been during their season of dormancy, but in every case they have pushed at the proper
time. I may as well here explain, though somewhat out of order, a peculiarity in reference
to the roots of this species: it dies down in early autumn, and the crown seems to retire within
the ball of its roots, which are a matted mass of fibres, and not only does it seem to retire,
but also to dwindle, so that anyone, with a suspicion, who might be seeking for the vital part,
might easily be misled by such appearances, which are further added to by the fact that the
species does not start into growth until a late date compared with others of the genus. So
peculiar are the roots and crown of this plant, that if a root were dug up in mid-winter, and
the soil partly shaken from it, a two-year-old specimen would be found to be the size and shape
of a cricket ball, and the position of the crown so difficult to find that, on planting the
root again, considerable discrimination would have to be exercised, or the crown might be pointed
the wrong way.

P. Sikkimensis is a Cowslip. The flowers are a pale primrose yellow, rendered more pale still
by a mealiness which covers the whole stem, being most abundant near the top, but whether it
is produced on the petals, or, owing to their bell-shape and pendent form they receive it from
the scape and pedicels by the action of the wind, I cannot say. The flowers are considerably
over 1in. long; they are numerously produced on long drooping pedicels, of irregular lengths;
the tallest scape of the specimen illustrated is 18in. high, but under more favourable conditions
this Cowslip has been said to reach a height of 3ft. The leaves are 6in. to 12in. long, wrinkled,
unevenly dentate, oblong and blunt; during the time of seeding the leaves increase in length,
some becoming spathulate, or broadly stalked; it ripens seed plentifully, from which seedlings
come true.

Although I have never grown this noble plant otherwise than in ordinary garden loam well enriched
and in shady borders, it is said to be more at home in peaty soil always in a moist state.
However that may be, I have proved it to do well under ordinary treatment; it should be well
watered during hot dry weather; amongst dwarf trees, in the more damp parts of rockwork, or
at the foot of a north wall covered with any kind of foliage, it will be grown and seen to
advantage.

Besides by seed, which should be sown as soon as ripened, it may be propagated by root divisions
at the time the crowns are pushing in spring.

Flowering period, June and July.

Primula Vulgaris Flore-pleno.

DOUBLE-FLOWERED PRIMROSE; Nat. Ord. PRIMULACEÆ.

It is not intended to descant upon, or even attempt to name, the many forms of Double Primrose;
the object is more to direct the attention of the reader to one which is a truly valuable flower
and ought to be in every garden. Let me at once state its chief points. Colour, yellow; flowers,
large, full, clear, and sweetly scented, produced regularly twice a year; foliage, short, rigid,
evergreen, handsome, and supporting the flowers from earth splashes. Having grown this variety
for five years, I have proved it to be as stated during both mild and severe seasons. It seems
as if it wanted to commence its blooming period about October, from which time to the severest
part of winter it affords a goodly amount of flowers; it is then stopped for a while, though
its buds can be seen during the whole winter, and when the longer days and vernal sunshine
return, it soon becomes thickly covered with blossoms, which are of the most desirable kind
for spring gathering.

Its flowers need no further description beyond that already given; but I may add that the stalks
are somewhat short, which is an advantage, as the bloom is kept more amongst the leaves and
away from the mud. The foliage is truly handsome, short, finely toothed, rolled back, pleasingly
wrinkled, and of a pale green colour. It is very hardy, standing all kinds of weather, and
I never saw it rot at the older crowns, like so many of the fine varieties, but it goes on
growing, forming itself into large tufts a foot and more across.

It has been tried in stiff loam and light vegetable soil; in shade, and fully exposed; it has
proved to do equally well in both kinds of soil, but where it received the full force of the
summer sun the plants were weak, infested with red spider, and had a poorer crop of flowers.
It would, therefore, appear that soil is of little or no importance, but that partial shade
is needful. It is not only a variety worth the having, but one which deserves to have the best
possible treatment, for flowers in winter--and such flowers--are worth all care.

Flowering periods, late autumn and early spring to June.

Pulmonarias.

LUNGWORTS; Nat. Ord. BORAGINACEÆ.

In speaking of these hardy herbaceous perennials, I should wish to be understood that the section,
often and more properly called Mertensia, is not included because they are so very distinct
in habit and colour of both flowers and foliage. Most of the Pulmonarias begin to flower early
in March, and continue to do so for a very long time, quite two months.

For the most part, the flowers (which are borne on stems about 8in. high, in straggling clusters)
are of changing colours, as from pink to blue; they are small but pretty, and also have a quaint
appearance. The foliage during the blooming period is not nearly developed, the plants being
then somewhat small in all their parts, but later the leaf growth goes on rapidly, and some
kinds are truly handsome from their fine spreading habit and clear markings of large white
spots on the leaves, which are often 9in. or 10in. long and 3in. broad, oblong, lanceolate,
taper-pointed, and rough, with stiff hairs. At this stage they would seem to be in their most
decorative form, though their flowers, in a cut state, formed into "posies," are very beautiful
and really charming when massed for table decoration; on the plant they have a faded appearance.

Many of the species or varieties have but slight distinctions, though all are beautiful. A
few may be briefly noticed otherwise than as above:

P. officinalis is British, and typical of several others. Flowers pink, turning to blue; leaves
blotted.

P. off. alba differs only in the flowers being an unchanging white.

P. angustifolia, also British, having, as its specific name implies, narrow leaves; flowers
bright blue or violet.

P. mollis, in several varieties, comes from North America; is distinct from its leaves being
smaller, the markings or spots less distinct, and more thickly covered with soft hairs, whence
its name.

P. azurea has not only a well-marked leaf, but also a very bright and beautiful azure flower;
it comes from Poland.

P. maculata has the most clearly and richly marked leaf, and perhaps the largest, that being
the chief distinction.

P. saccharata is later; its flowers are pink, and not otherwise very distinct from some of
the above kinds.

It is not necessary to enumerate others, as the main points of difference are to be found in
the above-mentioned kinds.

All are very easily cultivated; any kind of soil will do for them, but they repay liberal treatment
by the extra quality of their foliage. Their long and thick fleshy roots allow of their being
transplanted at any time of the year. Large clumps, however, are better divided in early spring,
even though they are then in flower.

Flowering period, March to May.

Puschkinia Scilloides.

SCILLA-LIKE PUSCHKINIA, or STRIPED SQUILL; Syns. P. LIBANOTICA, ADAMSIA SCILLOIDES; Nat. Ord.
LILIACEÆ.

As all its names, common and botanical, denote, this charming bulbous plant is like the scillas;
it may, therefore, be useful to point out the distinctions which divide them. They are (in
the flowers) to be seen at a glance; within the spreading perianth there is a tubular crown
or corona, having six lobes and a membranous fringe. This crown is connected at the base of
the divisions of the perianth, which divisions do not go to the base of the flower, but form
what may be called an outer tube. In the scilla there is no corona, neither a tube, but the
petal-like sepals or divisions of the perianth are entire, going to the base of the flower.
There are other but less visible differences which need not be further gone into. Although
there are but two or three known species of the genus, we have not only a confusion of names,
but plants of another genus have been mistaken as belonging to this. Mr. Baker, of Kew, however,
has put both the plants and names to their proper belongings, and we are no longer puzzled
with a chionodoxa under the name of Puschkinia. This Lilywort came from Siberia in 1819, and
was long considered a tender bulb in this climate, and even yet by many it is treated as such.
With ordinary care--judicious planting--it not only proves hardy, but increases fast. Still,
it is a rare plant, and very seldom seen, notwithstanding its great beauty. It was named by
Adams, in honour of the Russian botanist, Count Puschkin, whence the two synonymous names Puschkinia
and Adamsia; there is also another name, specific, which, though still used, has become discarded
by authorities, viz., P. Libanotica--this was supposed to be in reference to one of its habitats
being on Mount Lebanon. During mild winters it flowers in March, and so delicately marked are
its blossoms that one must always feel that its beauties are mainly lost from the proverbial
harshness of the season.

At the height of 4in. to 8in. the flowers are produced on slender bending scapes, the spikes
of blossom are arranged one-sided; each flower is ½in. to nearly 1in. across, white, richly
striped with pale blue down the centre, and on both sides of the petal-like divisions. The
latter are of equal length, lance-shaped, and finely reflexed; there is a short tube, on the
mouth of which is joined the smaller one of the corona. The latter is conspicuous from the
reflexed condition of the limb of the perianth, and also from its lobes and membranous fringe
being a soft lemon-yellow colour. The pedicels are slender and distant, causing the flower
spikes, which are composed of four to eight flowers, to have a lax appearance. The leaves are
few, 4in. to 6in. long, lance-shaped, concave, but flatter near the apex, of good substance
and a dark green colour; bulb small.

As already stated, a little care is needed in planting this choice bulbous subject. It enjoys
a rich, but light soil. It does not so much matter whether it is loamy or of a vegetable nature
if it is light and well drained; and, provided it is planted under such conditions and in full
sunshine, it will both bloom well and increase. It may be propagated by division of the roots
during late summer, when the tops have died off; but only tufts having a crowded appearance
should be disturbed for an increase of stock.

Flowering period, March to May.

P. s. compacta is a variety of the above, having a stronger habit and bolder flowers. The latter
are more numerous, have shorter pedicels, and are compactly arranged in the spike--whence the
name. Culture, propagation, and flowering time, same as last.

Pyrethrum Uliginosum.

MARSH FEVERFEW; Nat. Ord. COMPOSITÆ.

A very bold and strong growing species, belonging to a numerous genus; it comes to us from
Hungary, and has been grown more or less in English gardens a little over sixty years. It is
a distinct species, its large flowers, the height to which it grows, and the strength of its
willow-like stalks being its chief characteristics. Still, to anyone with but a slight knowledge
of hardy plants, it asserts itself at once as a Pyrethrum. It is hardy, herbaceous, and perennial,
and worth growing in every garden where there is room for large growing subjects. There is
something about this plant when in flower which a bare description fails to explain; to do
it justice it should be seen when in full bloom.

Its flowers are large and ox-eye-daisy-like, having a white ray, with yellow centre, but the
florets are larger in proportion to the disk; plain and quiet as the individual flowers appear,
when seen in numbers (as they always may be seen on well-established specimens), they are strikingly
beautiful, the blooms are more than 2in. across, and the mass comes level with the eye, for
the stems are over 5ft. high, and though very stout, the branched stems which carry the flowers
are slender and gracefully bending. The leaves are smooth, lance-shaped, and sharply toothed,
fully 4in. long, and stalkless; they are irregularly but numerously disposed on the stout round
stems, and of nearly uniform size and shape until the corymbose branches are reached, i.e.,
for 4ft. or 5ft. of their length; when the leaves are fully grown they reflex or hang down,
and totally hide the stems. This habit, coupled with the graceful and nodding appearance of
the large white flowers, renders this a pleasing subject, especially for situations where tall
plants are required, such as near and in shrubberies. I grow but one strong specimen, and it
looks well between two apple trees, but not over-shaded. The idea in planting it there was
to obtain some protection from strong winds, and to avoid the labour and eyesore which staking
would create.

It likes a stiff loam, but is not particular as to soil if only it is somewhat damp. The flowers
last three weeks; and in a cut state are also very effective; and, whether so appropriated
or left on the plant, they will be found to be very enduring. When cutting these flowers, the
whole corymb should be taken, as in this particular case we could not wish for a finer arrangement,
and being contemporaneous with the Michaelmas daisy, the bloom branches of the two subjects
form elegant and fashionable decorations for table or vase use. To propagate this plant, it
is only needed to divide the roots in November, and plant in deeply-dug but damp soil.

Flowering period, August to September.

Ramondia Pyrenaica.

Syns. CHAIXIA MYCONI and VERBASCUM MYCONI; Nat. Ord. SOLANACEÆ.

This is a very dwarf and beautiful alpine plant, from the Pyrenees, the one and only species
of the genus. Although it is sometimes called a Verbascum or Mullien, it is widely distinct
from all the plants of that family. To lovers of dwarf subjects this must be one of the most
desirable; small as it is, it is full of character.

The flowers, when held up to a good light, are seen to be downy and of ice-like transparency;
they are of a delicate, pale, violet colour, and a little more than an inch in diameter, produced
on stems 3in. to 4in. high, which are nearly red, and furnished with numerous hairs; otherwise
the flower stems are nude, seldom more than two flowers, and oftener only one bloom is seen
on a stem. The pedicels, which are about half-an-inch long, bend downwards, but the flowers,
when fully expanded, rise a little; the calyx is green, downy, five-parted, the divisions being
short and reflexed at their points; the corolla is rotate, flat, and, in the case of flowers
several days old, thrown back; the petals are nearly round, slightly uneven, and waved at the
edges, having minute protuberances at their base tipped with bright orange, shading to white;
the seed organs are very prominent; stamens arrow-shaped; pistil more than twice the length
of filaments and anthers combined, white, tipped with green. The leaves are arranged in very
flat rosettes, the latter being from four to eight inches across. The foliage is entirely stemless,
the nude flower stalks issuing from between the leaves, which are roundly toothed, evenly and
deeply wrinkled, and elliptical in outline. Underneath, the ribs are very prominent, and the
covering of hairs rather long, as are also those of the edges. On the upper surface the hairs
are short and stiff.

In the more moist interstices of rockwork, where, against and between large stones, its roots
will be safe from drought, it will not only be a pleasing ornament, but will be likely to thrive
and flower well. It is perfectly hardy, but there is one condition of our climate which tries
it very much--the wet, and alternate frosts and thaws of winter. From its hairy character and
flat form, the plant is scarcely ever dry, and rot sets in. This is more especially the case
with specimens planted flat; it is therefore a great help against such climatic conditions
to place the plants in rockwork, so that the rosettes are as nearly as possible at right angles
with the ground level. Another interesting way to grow this lovely and valuable species is
in pans or large pots, but this system requires some shelter in winter, as the plants will
be flat. The advantages of this mode are that five or six specimens so grown are very effective.
They can, from higher cultivation (by giving them richer soil, liquid manure, and by judicious
confinement of their roots), be brought into a more floriferous condition, and when the flowers
appear, they can be removed into some cool light situation, under cover, so that their beauties
can be more enjoyed, and not be liable to damage by splashing, &c. Plants so grown should be
potted in sandy peat, and a few pieces of sandstone placed over the roots, slightly cropping
out of the surface; these will not only help to keep the roots from being droughted, but also
bear up the rosetted leaves, and so allow a better circulation of air about the collars, that
being the place where rot usually sets in. In the case of specimens which do not get proper
treatment, or which have undergone a transplanting to their disadvantage, they will often remain
perfectly dormant to all appearance for a year or more. Such plants should be moved into a
moist fissure in rockwork, east aspect, and the soil should be of a peaty character. This may
seem like coddling, and a slur on hardy plants. Here, however, we have a valuable subject,
which does not find a home in this climate exactly so happy as its native habitat, but which,
with a little care, can have things so adapted to its requirements as to be grown year after
year in its finest form; such care is not likely to be withheld by the true lover of choice
alpines.

This somewhat slow-growing species may be propagated by division, but only perfectly healthy
specimens should be selected for the purpose, early spring being the best time; by seed also
it may be increased; the process, however, is slow, and the seedlings will be two years at
least before they flower.

Flowering period, May to July.

Ranunculus Aconitifolius.

ACONITE-LEAVED CROWFOOT, or BACHELORS' BUTTONS; Nat. Ord. RANUNCULACEÆ.

An herbaceous perennial, of the alpine parts of Europe, and for a long time cultivated in this
country. It grows 1ft. high, is much branched in zigzag form, and produces numerous flowers,
resembling those of the strawberry, but only about half the size; the leaves are finely cut
and of a dark green colour; it is not a plant worth growing for its flowers, but the reason
why I briefly speak of it here is that I may more properly introduce that grand old flower
of which it is the parent, R. a. fl.-pl. (see Fig. 79), the true "English double white Crowfoote,"
or Bachelor's Buttons; these are the common names which Gerarde gives as borne by this plant
nearly 300 years ago, and there can be no mistaking the plant, as he figures it in his "Historie
of Plantes," p. 812; true, he gives it a different Latin name to the one it bears at the present
time; still, it is the same plant, and his name for it (R. albus multiflorus) is strictly and
correctly specific. Numerous flowers are called Bachelor's Buttons, including daisies, globe
flowers, pyrethrums, and different kinds of ranunculi, but here we have the "original and true;"
probably it originated in some ancient English garden, as Gerarde says, "It groweth in the
gardens of herbarists & louers of strange plants, whereof we have good plentie, but it groweth
not wild anywhere."

Its round smooth stems are stout, zigzag, and much branched, forming the plant into a neat
compact bush, in size (of plants two or more years old) 2ft. high and 2ft. through. The flowers
are white, and very double or full of petals, evenly and beautifully arranged, salver shape,
forming a flower sometimes nearly an inch across; the purity of their whiteness is not marred
by even an eye, and they are abundantly produced and for a long time in succession. The leaves
are of a dark shining green colour, richly cut--as the specific name implies--after the style
of the Aconites; the roots are fasciculate, long, and fleshy.

This "old-fashioned" plant is now in great favour and much sought after; and no wonder, for
its flowers are perfection, and the plant one of the most decorative and suitable for any position
in the garden. In a cut state the flowers do excellent service. This subject is easily cultivated,
but to have large specimens, with plenty of flowers, a deep, well enriched soil is indispensable;
stagnant moisture should be avoided. Autumn is the best time to divide the roots.

Flowering period, May to July.

Ranunculus Acris Flore-pleno.

DOUBLE ACRID CROWFOOT, YELLOW BACHELOR'S BUTTONS; Nat. Ord. RANUNCULACEÆ.

The type of this is a common British plant, most nearly related to the field buttercup. I am
not going to describe it, but mention it as I wish to introduce R. acris fl.-pl., sometimes
called "yellow Bachelor's Buttons"--indeed, that is the correct common name for it, as used
fully 300 years ago. In every way, with the exception of its fine double flowers, it resembles
very much the tall meadow buttercup, so that it needs no further description; but, common as
is its parentage, it is both a showy and useful border flower, and forms a capital companion
to the double white Bachelor's Buttons (R. aconitifolius fl.-pl.).

Flowering period, April to June.

Ranunculus Amplexicaulis.

STEM-CLASPING RANUNCULUS; Nat. Ord. RANUNCULACEÆ.

A very hardy subject; effective and beautiful. The form of this plant is exceedingly neat,
and its attractiveness is further added to by its smooth and pale glaucous foliage. It was
introduced into this country more than 200 years ago, from the Pyrenees. Still it is not generally
grown, though at a first glance it asserts itself a plant of first-class merit (see Fig. 80).

The shortest and, perhaps, best description of its flowers will be given when I say they are
white Buttercups, produced on stout stems nearly a foot high, which are also furnished by entire
stem-clasping leaves, whence its name; other leaves are of varying forms, mostly broadly lance-shaped,
and some once-notched; those of the root are nearly spoon-shaped. The whole plant is very smooth
and glaucous, also covered with a fine meal. As a plant, it is effective; but grown by the
side of R. montanus and the geums, which have flowers of similar shape, it is seen to more
advantage.

On rockwork, in leaf soil, it does remarkably well; in loam it seems somewhat stunted. Its
flowers are very serviceable in a cut state, and they are produced in succession for three
or four weeks on the same plant. It has large, fleshy, semi-tuberous roots, and many of them;
so that at any time it may be transplanted. I have pulled even flowering plants to pieces,
and the different parts, which, of course, had plenty of roots to them, still continued to bloom.

Flowering period, April and May.

Ranunculus Speciosum.

SHOWY CROWFOOT; Nat. Ord. RANUNCULACEÆ.

This is another double yellow form of the Buttercup. It has only recently come into my possession.
The blooms are very large and beautiful, double the size of R. acris fl.-pl., and a deeper
yellow; the habit, too, is much more dwarf, the leaves larger, but similar in shape.

Flowering period, April to June.

All the foregoing Crowfoots are of the easiest culture, needing no particular treatment; but
they like rich and deep soil. They may be increased by division at almost any time, the exceptions
being when flowering or at a droughty season.

Rudbeckia Californica.

CALIFORNIAN CONE-FLOWER; Nat. Ord. COMPOSITÆ.

This, in all its parts, is a very large and showy subject; the flowers are 3in. to 6in. across,
in the style of the sunflower. It has not long been grown in English gardens, and came, as
its name implies, from California: it is very suitable for association with old-fashioned flowers,
being nearly related to the genus Helianthus, or sunflower. It is not only perfectly hardy
in this climate, which is more than can be said of very many of the Californian species, but
it grows rampantly and flowers well. It is all the more valuable as a flower from the fact
that it comes into bloom several weeks earlier than most of the large yellow Composites. Having
stated already the size of its flower, I need scarcely add that it is one of the showiest subjects
in the garden; it is, however, as well to keep it in the background, not only on account of
its tallness, but also because of its coarse abundant foliage.

It grows 4ft. to 6ft. high, the stems being many-branched. The flowers have erect stout stalks,
and vary in size from 3in. to 6in. across, being of a light but glistening yellow colour; the
ray is somewhat unevenly formed, owing to the florets being of various sizes, sometimes slit
at the points, lobed, notched, and bent; the disk is very bold, being nearly 2in. high, in
the form of a cone, whence the name "cone flower." The fertile florets of the disk or cone
are green, and produce an abundance of yellow pollen, but it is gradually developed, and forms
a yellow ring round the dark green cone, which rises slowly to the top when the florets of
the ray fall; from this it will be seen that the flowers last a long time. The leaves of the
root are sometimes a foot in length and half as broad, being oval, pointed, and sometimes notched
or lobed; also rough, from a covering of short stiff hairs, and having once-grooved stout stalks
9in. or more long; the leaves of the stems are much smaller, generally oval, but of very uneven
form, bluntly pointed, distinctly toothed, and some of the teeth so large as to be more appropriately
described as segments; the base abruptly narrows into a very short stalk. The flowers of this
plant are sure to meet with much favour, especially while the present fashion continues; but
apart from fashion, merely considered as a decorative subject for the garden, it is well worth
a place. There are larger yellow Composites, but either they are much later, or they are not
perennial species, and otherwise this one differs materially from them.

I need not say anything respecting this form of flower in a cut state--its effectiveness is
well known. If planted in ordinary garden loam it will hold its place and bloom freely year
after year without further care. Smaller subjects should not be set too near it; it may be
unadvisable to plant too many clumps in the same garden, but it can be allowed to spread into
one bold patch. The best time to divide or transplant is in early spring, when growth is just
pushing, for vigorous as this and many other perennials are, I have often found them to rot,
when the dormant roots, after being cut into pieces, have had to face the winter.

Flowering period, July to September.

Rudbeckia Serotina.

Late CONE-FLOWER; Nat. Ord. COMPOSITÆ.

This hardy American species, though not an old plant in English gardens, is nevertheless classed
with "old-fashioned" plants and flowers; and certainly its sombre but pleasing dark golden
ray flowers, together with its likeness to many of the old sunflowers, favours such classification.
It is the latest of a late-flowering genus.

It attains the height of 2ft.; the root leaves are of irregular shape, some oval and pointed,
others, on the same plant, being lance-shaped, with two or three large teeth or acute lobes;
in size the leaves also vary from 3in. to 8in. long, and being covered with short bristly hairs,
they are very rough, also of a dull green colour; the flower stems have but few leaves, so
it will be judged that the plant has but a weedy appearance, but this is compensated for by
the rich and numerous large dark orange flowers, 3in. across; the ray is single, and the centre,
which is large and prominent, is a rich chocolate brown.

This subject, to be effective, should be grown in large specimens; mine is about 3ft. in diameter,
and the level mass of flowers, as I have often noticed them in twilight, were grandly beautiful.
I can well understand that many have not cared for this cone flower when they have judged it
from a small plant which has sent up its first, and perhaps abnormal, bloom. It is especially
a subject that should be seen in bold clumps, and in moderately rich soil it will soon become
such. Moreover, the flowers are very effective in a cut state, when loosely arranged in vases,
only needing something in the way of tall grasses to blend with in order to form an antique "posy."

Autumn is the best time to plant it; its long roots denote that it enjoys deep soil, and, when
planted, the roots of this, as well as all others then being transplanted, should be made firm,
otherwise the frost will lift them out and the droughts will finish them off. Many plants are
lost in this manner, and, indeed, many short-rooted kinds are scarcely saved by the greatest
care. The stem-rooting character of this plant affords ready means of propagation by root divisions.

Flowering period, from September till strong frosts.

Salix Reticulata.

WRINKLED or NETTED WILLOW; Nat. Ord. SALICACEÆ.

A native deciduous shrub, of creeping or prostrate habit, not growing higher than 2in. As the
flowers are inconspicuous and only interesting to the botanist or when under the microscope,
let me at once say I mention this subject because of its beautiful habit and distinct quality
of foliage. When grown on rockwork, no other plant can compare with it, and where choice spring
bulbs are planted, this handsome creeper may be allowed, without injury to such roots, to broadly
establish itself; so grown, its little stout leaves, thickly produced, flatly on the surface,
are much admired.

The flowers or catkins stand well above the foliage, but are unattractive, being of a dusky
brown colour; the leaves are dark green, downy, of much substance, 1½in. long, and nearly 1in.
broad, but the size of foliage varies according to the conditions under which the specimens
are grown; the sizes now referred to are of plants grown on rather dry rockwork and fully exposed;
the form of the leaves is orbicular, obtuse, not in the least notched, bald, reticulately veined,
and glaucous beneath; the stems are short and diffuse, and tinged with red on the younger parts.

During winter, when bare of foliage, its thick creeping stems, covered with fat buds and interlaced
in a pleasing manner, render it interesting in almost any situation not shaded. It forms a
capital carpet plant from early spring to the end of summer.

It is in no way particular as regards soil, and though it loves moisture, like most other willows,
it proves thriving in dry places. It is, moreover, a good grower in large towns. Its propagation
may be carried out before the leaves unfold in spring. Little branches with roots to them may
be cut from the parent plant, and should be set in sandy loam and watered well to settle it
about the roots.

Flowering period, September to strong frosts.

Sanguinaria Canadensis.

BLOODROOT; Nat. Ord. PAPAVERACEÆ.

This is a native of North America, and is, therefore, hardy in this climate; tuberous rooted.
It is a curious plant, not only from its great fulness of sap or juice, which is red (that
of the root being darker, whence its name Bloodroot), but also because of the shape of its
leaves, their colour, and method of development (see Fig. 81). Though very dwarf, it is handsome
and distinct.

The flowers are pure white and nearly 2in. across; the petals have good substance, but they
fall in five or six sunny days; the stamens are numerous and bright yellow. Though belonging
to the order of the Poppy, it is in many respects unlike it; each flower stem, which is 6in.
high, springs directly from the root, and only one flower is produced on a stem; the leaves
are also radical, so that the plant is branchless and stemless; the leaf stalks are rather
shorter than those of the flowers. The foliage is of a slate-grey colour, prominently veined
on the under side, the upper surface being somewhat wrinkled; the leaves are 3in. across when
fully developed, vine-leaf shaped, deeply and beautifully lobed; their development is slow,
not being completed until the bloom is past. Both leaves and flowers are produced in a curious
fashion; for a time the flower-bud is compactly enfolded by a leaf, and so both grow up to
the height of 2in. or 3in., when the former pushes through, and soon swells its olive-shaped
buds. At this stage a good specimen clump is very attractive, and is only more so when the
fine blooms first open.

It should be grown amongst some such carpeting plants as Sibthorpia Europæa or Linaria pilosa,
so as to protect it; moreover, these creepers are suited for a similar soil and position. The
soil should be light, either of sandy or vegetable character, but one that cannot bake; shade
from the mid-day sun is essential, as also is plenty of moisture. When the growths have become
crowded, as they do in about three years, it is as well to lift, divide, and replant at a distance
of 3in.; this is best done after the tops have died off in summer; plant 4in. or 5in. deep.

Flowering period, April and May.

Saponaria Ocymoides.

ROCK SOAPWORT, or BASIL-LEAVED SOAPWORT: Nat. Ord. SILENACEÆ.

A very hardy alpine from France, and one of the most floriferous subjects that can be placed
on rockwork, where should be its position. During a single season it is no uncommon thing to
see a small plant grow into a large cushion 2ft. in diameter, and only 6in. or 9in. high. In
planting it this fact should not be overlooked, not only for the sake of giving it plenty of
room, but also in order that less vigorous subjects near it may not become overgrown; it blooms
all summer, and though the flowers are small and not at all bright, their numbers render it
attractive.

The flowers, which are about ½in. across, are of a pink colour, and produced on many-branched
prostrate stems; the calyx is five-toothed; the corolla is formed of five flat petals; the
leaves are small, basil-like, oval-lance shaped, entire and smooth; the general appearance
of the plant when in bloom is that of a compact mass of small leaves and flowers, the latter
predominating.

It will grow in any kind of soil, but prefers that of a vegetable character, with its roots
amongst large stones; but, strictly speaking, it needs nothing but an open situation and plenty
of room to spread. It ripens an abundance of seed, and there is not a better mode of propagation
than its own; hundreds of stout seedlings appear the following spring around the parent plant,
and these may then be transplanted, and they will flower the same season.

S. o. splendens is a variety of the above very much improved indeed; and though one cannot
discard the good old plant for its very recent offspring, the former is certainly very much
eclipsed. Splendens has foliage slightly different, but its flowers are much larger and brighter;
and though it may not be quite so vigorous, in this case that may be considered an improvement.
It is said to come true from seed.

Flowering period, May to August.

Saxifraga Burseriana.

BURSER'S SAXIFRAGE; Nat. Ord. SAXIFRAGACEÆ.

A hardy evergreen alpine. A native of Carniola, not long discovered, and quite new to English
gardens. Though it belongs to a very extensive genus, it is a distinct species; many of the
Saxifrages are not so, neither are they sufficiently decorative to merit a place in any but
large or scientific gardens. This one, however, is a truly handsome kind, and its flowers are
produced amid the snow and during the bleak and dull weather of mid-winter.

The plant in form is a dense cushion of little spiked rosettes, of a dark green colour, slightly
silvered. The flowers are produced on bright ruddy stems 3in. high, and are creamy white, nearly
the size of a sixpence. Small as the plant is, a moderate sized specimen is very attractive,
especially before the flowers open, when they are in their prettiest form. They open slowly
and endure nearly two months.

It enjoys light soil and a well drained situation, such as the edge of a border, where strong
growing kinds cannot damage it, or on rockwork, where it will be fully exposed to the sun.
To be effective, it should be grown into strong clumps, which may easily be done by annually
giving a top-dressing of leaf-mould; the older parts of the plant will remain perfectly sound
and healthy for years. When it is desirable to propagate it, it may best be done in April,
when the tufts should be carefully divided, and its short roots made firm in the soil by one
or two stones being placed near.

Flowering period, January to April.

Saxifraga Cæsia.

SILVER MOSS, or GREY SAXIFRAGE; Nat. Ord. SAXIFRAGACEÆ.

One of the alpine gems. This has been grown in English gardens since 1752, yet good specimens
are rarely met with, though its culture is simple and easy. It is found wild on the Alps of
Switzerland, Austria, and the Pyrenees. To the lover of the minute forms of genuine alpine
plants, this will be a treasure; it is very distinct in form, habit, and colour. Its tiny rosettes
of encrusted leaves can scarcely be said to rise from the ground, and the common name, "silver
moss," which it is often called by, most fittingly applies; but perhaps its colour is the main
feature of notice. The meaning of its specific name is grey, to which it certainly answers;
but so peculiar is the greyness that a more definite description may be useful, in giving which
I will quote that of Decandolle and Sprengle: "The lavender-blue is a pale blue (cæsius); it
is mixed with a little grey." This exactly answers to the colour of the pretty Saxifrage under
notice, and it is far from a common one in foliage.

The flowers differ but slightly from those of other encrusted forms of the genus, but they
are a creamy white, arranged in small panicles on short and slender stems. They are sparingly
produced in May and June. The leaves are ¼in. long, aggregate or in miniature rosettes; in
shape, linear-oblong, recurved, and keeled. The upper surface is concave, having marginal dots,
evenly disposed; the dots are bright and excavated, and some of the leaves (those of the stems)
are scale formed. The glaucous or lavender-blue colour is beautifully enlivened with the crystal
dots. Its habit reminds one of the more distinct forms of lichens, and, when it is grown with
suitable companions on rockwork, it has a happy way of showing and adapting itself in such
situation; besides, its colour then shows with more effect.

There is a variety of this species not yet in general cultivation, and it cannot be too strongly
recommended to lovers of the finest forms of rock or alpine plants. It is called S. c. major
(see Fig. 82). The name at once suggests the main difference from the type, but there are other
features quite as marked as that of its extra size in all its parts; the foliage is more crowded,
which seems to cause the largest leaves to become more erect, and the habit, too, perhaps from
the same cause, is ball shaped; the small rosettes of thick encrusted leaves, from the manner
in which they are packed together, form a rigid mass, which differs widely both in detail and
effect from any other Saxifrage I know.

These dwarf subjects are best suited for rockwork; but another plan, now much practised, is
to grow them in pots. This in no way implies that protection is given or needed--these sturdy
subjects are far better fully exposed--but the pot system has advantages; when so planted,
the roots are more likely to be placed in a better selected compost, and the specimens can
be raised in order to examine their miniature beauties. The above kinds enjoy a gritty vegetable
soil; perfect drainage is indispensable. These are not among the Saxifrages that are readily
propagated; a few crowns or rosettes with short pieces of stem are not sure to root, and if
more careful division is not carried out, perhaps but two or three growing bits from a large
specimen may be the result, so lessening instead of increasing the stock. Before cutting let
the roots be washed clear of soil, trace the long roots, and so cut up the plant that each
division will have a share of them. Sometimes a rather large specimen will have but few of
such roots, in which case it will prove the better and safer plan to make only a corresponding
number of divisions, so making sure of each. A further help to such newly planted stock is
gained by placing small stones about the collars; this keeps the plants moist and cool during
the dry season, when (after flowering) the divisions should be made.

Flowering period, May and June.

Saxifraga Ceratophylla.

HORN-LEAVED SAXIFRAGE; Nat. Ord. SAXIFRAGACEÆ.

For the most part, this numerous genus flowers in spring and early summer, the species now
under notice being one of the late bloomers; its flowers however, like most of the Saxifrages,
are small and insignificant; on the other hand, its foliage, as may be seen by the illustration
(Fig. 83) is highly ornamental. In November, the grand half-globular tufts of rigid dark green
foliage are delicately furnished with a whitish exudation, which, seen through a magnifying
glass, resembles scales, but seen by the naked eye--and it can be clearly seen without stooping--it
gives the idea of hoar frost. We have here, then, an interesting and ornamental subject, which,
when grown in collections of considerable variety, proves attractive; and as even after many
degrees of frost, it retains its beauty, and, I may add, its finest form, it may be confidently
recommended as a suitable winter garden subject. This species proves evergreen in our climate,
though a native of Spain, from which country it was imported about eighty years ago. It is
sometimes called S. cornutum, a name quite applicable, and it is frequently confounded with
S. pentadactylis (the Five-fingered-leaved Saxifrage), which it much resembles, from which,
however, it is distinct in several respects.

Its flowers are small, white, and numerous, produced on slender stalks in summer; they are
of the general type of the flowers of the mossy section, and need not be further described.
The foliage forms rigid cushions, dense, rounded, and of a dark green colour in the early season;
later it becomes grey, with an exudation; the leaves are arranged in rosette form, having stout
stalks, channelled or folded on the upper surface; there are three deep divisions, and others
less cut; the segments are subulate, bent back and tipped with horny mucrones, whence its specific
name; these horn-like points are bent under, which, together with their transparency, renders
them all but invisible; they can, however, be clearly seen if brought near the eye and looked
for on the under side of the foliage. The leaves are of good substance, 1in. to 2in. long,
having broad stipules; the stems are exceedingly slender in the older parts, and somewhat woody,
having the appearance of being dried up and dead.

On rockwork it is seen in its best form, as the slope not only shows it off better, but is
conducive to a finer growth. In flat places, the dense cushions, which are 6in. or 8in. high,
often rot from too much moisture. I have never seen this occur in the drier positions afforded
by the slopes of a rockery. If planted between large stones it has a happy way of adapting
itself to them, and few plants are more effective. It thrives equally well in soil of a loamy
or vegetable character, but it seems to enjoy a little limestone, small pieces of which I place
round the specimens; they also serve to hold up the lower foliage and favour the admission
of air. Where alpines are grown in pots this should form one, as it makes a charming specimen;
the drainage should be perfect. It also makes a capital edging plant, especially for raised
beds, as then it is accommodated in the same way as on rockwork.

It may be propagated by taking the slips nearest the earth, which will often be found to have
a few rootlets, but if not they will still prove the more suitable; if taken in summer and
dibbled into sand, they will make good roots in a week or two, when they may be transplanted
to their permanent quarters, so as to become established before winter.

Saxifraga Ciliata.

HAIRY-MARGINED SAXIFRAGE; Syn. MEGASEA CILIATA; Nat. Ord. SAXIFRAGACEÆ.

This is a peculiar, distinct, and beautiful form of Saxifrage; there seems, however, to be
some confusion in reference to its nomenclature. That it belongs to the Megasea section there
can be little doubt, so that its synonym (M. ciliata) is fairly descriptive; but when it is
said to be identical with S. ligulata, also of the Megasea section, the difficulty of recognising
the form illustrated as such is very great indeed. It is also supposed to be a variety of S.
ligulata, and though it has many important dissimilarities, it has also many affinities. So
much does it differ from S. ligulata that it seems to be fully entitled to the specific honours
which some authorities have given to it. It differs from S. ligulata, described by Don, in
being rough and hairy on both sides of the leaves; in other respects it agrees, more especially
in the colour of the flowers, which is uncommon. It may be the Megasea ciliata of Haworth,
which Don refers to under S. ligulata, or it may be a distinct form of the latter, as, on the
authority of Dr. Wallich, of the Botanical Gardens of Calcutta, the species has varieties.
Wherever its proper place may be in its numerous genus, the name at the head hereof is a good
descriptive one. It is an Indian contribution, hailing from the mountains east of Bengal. In
this climate it endures our winters, though it is not one of the hardiest of its tribe. It
has not long been cultivated in this country, and is rarely met with. Its distinct habit and
fine flowers render it desirable, and it will with many be more so on the score of its peculiarities.
A few of the latter may be mentioned here. Anthers very large, and brick-red before becoming
pollenized; scapes and scape-sheaths nearly smooth, though all other foliar parts are hairy;
stipules very large and fully developed whilst the leaves are in their rudimentary stage. When
not in flower the plant has a strong resemblance to S. sarmentosa, which belongs to another
section, but S. ciliata has features belonging to both sections. The habit, however, is more
flat, and leaves more oval, and if, as has been hinted, this is a hybrid, it may not be without
some relationship to that species, which is also of Asian origin. Further, on the authority
of Murray, Sax. sarmentosa is identical with S. ligulata; so that, if we may suppose S. ciliata
to be a distinct variety of S. ligulata, and the latter to have such affinity to S. sarmentosa
that Murray puts it as identical, the chief difference between our subject and the form generally
accepted as S. ligulata is accounted for, viz., the hairy and rougher surfaces of the leaves,
which are traits of the well-known S. sarmentosa. If these remarks prove nothing, they may
serve to show the difficulty of recognising the various forms and species of so popular a genus
from reading alone, it having been so extensively treated of, and the classifications being
so varied. Its study, when the species are being cultivated, is simply delightful, compared
with the confusion of book study alone; and yet it is no uncommon thing, when forming a collection
of Saxifrages, to receive three or four different forms from different sources under the same
name, and each perhaps more or less authorised. The student by growing this genus of plants
will reap other pleasures than that of identification, and in a few years time will find in
his own garden (as the outcome of growing allied species) new forms springing from seed, and
scattered about the beds and walks in a pleasing and suggestive manner. (See Fig. 84.)

The present subject has bell-shaped flowers, arranged in short-branched panicles, each flower
¾in. across, and sometimes, when well expanded, quite an inch; the colour is a delicate pink-tinted
white; petals obovate and concave, inserted in the calyx, clawed, sometimes notched and even
lobed; stamens long as petals, inserted in throat of calyx, stout, green changing to pink;
anthers large and brick red when young; styles massive, joining close together, turgid, nearly
long as stamens, and pale green; stigmas, simple, beardless, turning to a red colour; calyx
bell-shaped, five-parted, wrinkled; segments slightly reflexed and conniving or joining; scapes
4in. to 6in. high, stout and smooth, excepting solitary hairs; bracts, leaf-like; leaves oval
or cordate, 2in. to 4in. long, wrinkled, slightly waved, and toothed, conspicuously ciliated
or haired on the margin, whence the specific name "ciliata." Both surfaces are also furnished
with short stiff hairs, the whole leaf being stout and flatly arranged; leaf stalks short,
thick, and furnished with numerous long hairs, and ample stipules, which are glabrous, but
beautifully ciliated. Roots, woody, and slightly creeping on the surface. Habit of foliage
reflexing, forming flat masses; smaller or supplementary scapes are sent up later than the
main scape, from the midst of the stipules, bearing flowers in ones and twos. The blossom,
which is effective and very beautiful, is also sweetly scented, like the hawthorn.

As already hinted, this is not one of the most hardy Saxifrages, but I have twice wintered
it out on gritty beds, well raised, also on rockwork, under a warm south wall; and, as such
positions can be found or made in most gardens, it would be advisable to try and establish
this distinct and lovely spring bloomer. Lime and sandstone grit mixed with loam and leaf soil
I find to be the best compost I have yet tried for it; in fact, until a dry situation and a
little lime were given, it proved a shy bloomer. It is now quite the reverse, notwithstanding
that the roots were divided during the previous autumn. Fogs and rain are its greatest plagues,
owing to its hairy nature; the glass and wire shelters should be used for this most deserving
subject. Propagated by division of the woody semi-creeping roots during early autumn; each
division should have a crown and some roots, when they may be planted in their permanent quarters.

Flowering period, March to May.

Saxifraga (Megasea) Cordifolia.

Nat. Ord. SAXIFRAGACEÆ.

A first-class herbaceous perennial, grown for over a hundred years in English gardens; it comes
from Siberia, and consequently, it is very hardy in this climate. The Megasea section of the
Saxifraga is a very distinct genus; there are several forms with but slight distinctions in
the section, but the species now under notice may be readily distinguished from its nearest
known relatives, first by its extra size in all its parts, next by its wrinkled heart-shaped
leaves.

The flowers are produced on stout stems nearly a foot high, a section of which will cut the
size of a sixpenny piece; the rose-coloured flowers are perfectly developed before they push
through the many-times over-lapped foliage; they are neatly arranged, the branching stems sometimes
giving the panicle of blossom the form and also the size of a moderate bunch of grapes. Just
at this stage the flowers, to be most enjoyed, should be cut before the weather spoils their
delicate colour. The fine pale green calyx, which is also conspicuous by its handsome form
and extra length, is far from the least important feature of this flower, especially at the
above-mentioned stage. The leaves are 6in. to 10in. across.

Of the use of its flowers in a cut state, a few words may be said. The weather soon destroys
their beauty, but when cut they may be preserved for fully a fortnight. On one occasion I took
a blossom and placed it in a flower stand for single specimen blooms; in this instance all
the other glasses held such fine roses as Baroness Rothschild, Madame Lacharme, and Edouard
Morren, but so richly did it compare with these roses that it was given the place of honour--the
top centre glass; this flower I should say had never seen the full light in the open. After
that others pushed out of the leaves and were speedily damaged, and not fit to cut.

Flowering period, March to May.

Saxifraga Coriophylla.

Nat. Ord. SAXIFRAGACEÆ.

This is a rather recently discovered alpine species, very dwarf, but beautiful. The specific
name would appear to be in allusion to its flowers as pink-shaped; they are very small, but
the reader, by referring to the cut (Fig. 85), may form his own opinion of such likeness; however
well founded or otherwise the name may be, we have in this subject a gem for the rock garden.
It is a native of Albania, and belongs to that section of its extensive genus having triquetrous
and obtuse leaves, or blunt three-sided foliage, as formed by a well developed keel. It is
in flower in the middle of March, at the height of 2in. All its parts are of miniature dimensions,
and yet when grown in a suitable position it is effective.

The flowers are pure white, produced on leafy stems an inch or more high; they are few, and
open in succession; petals round and overlapping; calyx large for the size of flower, and covered
with down; sepals obtuse and tipped with a brown, almost red-tint; stamens short, having rather
large yellow anthers, which fill the throat of the corolla. The leaves are evergreen or silvery
grey, arranged in small rosettes, and ¼in. long, of good substance, rigid and smooth; their
shape is obtuse, concave, and keeled; they are furnished with marginal excavations, which present
themselves as dots; the habit is compact, the rosettes being crowded and forming cushioned-shaped
specimens; the flowers last for a fortnight in average weather.

Between large stones in vegetable mould and grit, it both thrives and shows to advantage; it
is also a charming subject for the pot culture of alpines. In company with the red-stalked
and white-flowered S. Burseriana, the purple S. oppositifolia, and the many other forms of
the mossy section, all, or nearly all in bloom about the same time, it offers a pleasing variety,
as being distinct in every way from its contemporaries, more especially in the foliage. It
is rather a slow grower, and not so readily increased as most Saxifrages; it is greatly benefited
by having pebbles or small stones about the collar. These keep it moist at the roots during
the growing season. If a little dry cow manure or guano is dusted amongst the stones during
early summer, the results will soon be seen; such growth, however, should not be stimulated
during the latter half of the year, or from its want of ripeness it will be liable to damage
during winter. This practice of top dressing greatly assists the parts touching the earth to
root, and so either an increased stock or larger specimens may sooner be obtained.

Flowering period, March.

Saxifraga Fortunei.

FORTUNE'S SAXIFRAGE; Nat. Ord. SAXIFRAGACEÆ.

This, as may at once be seen by a glance at Fig. 86, belongs to the lobed-leafed section. It
is as yet new in English gardens, and is often grown in pots in warm glasshouses. It is, however,
perfectly hardy, having stood out with me in the open for the past three years. It is nearly
related to S. japonica and its varieties, but is without the stolons or runners. In this climate,
with outdoor treatment, it flowers in October until cut down by frost, which sometimes happens
before the flowers get well out. It has been stated not only that it is not hardy, but that
its flowering period is May. With me it has proved otherwise, and others have proved it to
flower naturally in October. I also observed it in bloom in the Hull Botanic Gardens on the
open rockwork in November, 1882. I have no doubt that autumn is the natural season for well-established
plants to flower; weaker specimens may fail to push forth ere the frost cuts down their leaves,
when the dormant buds must remain sealed for the winter, but ready to develope with the return
of longer and warmer days.

The flowers are arranged in panicles on scapes nearly a foot high, the panicles being 6in.
long and 3in. in diameter. The petals are long and narrow, of uneven length, and notched; colour
pure white. The calyx is well developed; segments oval, notched at the ends; colour, pale apple
green. Stamens, long and tipped with beautifully orange-coloured anthers. The ovary is prominent,
and of a pale yellow. Besides the above features, the flowers, which mostly look sideways and
are quite an inch across their broadest parts, have one very long petal at the low side, and
the two next are at right angles with it, less than half its size, the two upper ones being
still less; the effect is both unusual and pleasing. The leaf stalks are long, stout, and of
a succulent nature, semi-transparent, and slightly furnished with longish hairs; the stipules
are ample, and of a bright red, which colour extends for a short length up the stalk. The leaves
are kidney-shaped, 2in. to 5in. across, eight or ten lobed, toothed and reflexed; they are
furnished with solitary stiff hairs, are of good substance, and a very dark green colour, but
herbaceous. The habit of this species is neat and very floriferous; therefore it is a valuable
plant for in or outdoor gardening; but owing to its late season of flowering outside, the blossom
is liable to injury. A bell glass, however, will meet the case; it should be placed over the
plant, but tilted slightly, when there are signs of frost--the flowers will amply reward such
care. If the bloom can be cut clean, a good cluster will vie with many orchids for delicacy
and effect.

I find it to do well in fat loam, and with the same kind of soil in pots, which comes in for
placing in cold frames when frost threatens. I find it one of the easiest plants possible to
manage--in fact, it needs no care to grow it; still, many amateurs fail to keep it, I suppose
from taking it into a warm greenhouse, where it is sure to dwindle. It is readily propagated
by division of the crowns, which should be done in spring.

Flowering period, October until strong frosts.

Saxifraga (Megasea) Ligulata.

Nat. Ord. SAXIFRAGACEÆ.

One of the large-leaved species (see Fig. 87) compared with others of the Megasea section,
its leaves are strap-like, as implied by the specific name. It is sometimes called Megasea
ciliata, but there is a large-leaved species, commonly called S. ciliata, which is very distinct
from this one, and it is all the more important that they should not be confounded with each
other, as S. ciliata is not very hardy, whilst this is perfectly so, being also one of our
finest herbaceous perennials. It comes to us from Nepaul, and has not long been cultivated
in this country.

Its flowers are produced numerously on bold stout stems 10in. high. Sometimes the flower-stem
is branched. The pale but clear rosy flowers are not only showy, but very enduring, lasting
several weeks. The leaves are six to ten inches long, of irregular form, but handsomely ribbed
and wavy; the new growths are bright yellowish-green, and tinted from the edges with a reddish
bronze, so that, during spring, besides being finely in flower, it is otherwise a pleasing
plant to look upon. Moreover, it is one of the few bold kinds of plants which flower so early
and therefore a most valuable subject for the spring flower-beds.

It looks well in any position, either near or back from the walks, in shrubs, or as a centre
specimen for beds; it is also a plant that may be moved easily, as it carries plenty of root
and earth, consequently it may be used in such designs as necessitate frequent transplantings.
It is not particular as to soil or position, but in light earth, well enriched with stable
manure, I have found it to thrive, so as to be equal to many of the so-called "fine foliage"
plants during summer; therefore, I should say, give it rich food. To propagate it, a strong
specimen with branched crowns should be selected. These branches or stems are ½in. to 1in.
thick. They should be cut off with as much length as possible; if they have a bit of root,
all the better; if not, it does not much matter. Let the cut end dry for a little time, take
off half, or even the whole, of the largest leaves, or the action of the wind will prevent
their remaining firm. When so prepared, the cuttings may be deeply planted in sandy loam, which
has previously been deeply stirred. This may be done as soon as the flowers are past, and by
the end of the year the cuttings should be well rooted and suitable for moving into the ornamental
part of the garden.

Flowering period, March to May.

Saxifraga Longifolia.

LONG-LEAVED SAXIFRAGE; QUEEN OF SAXIFRAGES; Nat. Ord. SAXIFRAGACEÆ.

Numerous and beautiful as are the species and varieties of this genus, this is the most admired
of them all, from which fact it derives its proud name of "Queen." It is of recent introduction;
habitat, the Pyrenees; but though of alpine origin, it thrives in lower, I may say the lowest,
situations even in our wet climate. As will be seen by the illustration (Fig. 88), it belongs
to the rosette section, and may indeed be said, for size and symmetry, to head the list. There
are many forms of it, differing more or less in shape of leaves, colour, habit, and size of
rosette. The original or reputed type is but an indifferent form compared with the one now
generally accepted as the representative of the species. So readily do the various Saxifrages
become crossed, that it is hard to distinguish them; and when a distinct form is evolved the
question occurs, What constitutes or entitles it to specific honours? Surely the form of which
we are speaking must be fully entitled to a name all its own, as it is not possible to find
another Saxifrage that can so widely contrast with the whole genus.

It may be as well, in a few words, to refer to one or two varieties; and it shall only be from
an amateur's point of view, whose estimate of their worth or importance is based entirely on
their ornamental qualities under cultivation. Such varieties, as far as I know, have not had
any name given them, descriptive or otherwise, and I for one have no desire to see any, as
the genus is already overloaded with names.

There is, first, a form whose main distinction is its dark olive-green leaves; the ends are
rather inclined to be spathulate, they are long, narrow, and arch well, rather nearer the centre
of the rosette; this causes the end of the outer circle of leaves to come flat on the ground.
The whole specimen has a sombre appearance compared with the more silvery kinds. The second
form has broader leaves, is more distinctly toothed and spotted; as a consequence of their
width, the leaves are fewer, and though all the varieties are very formal, this is the most
so. When by the side of what we may term the true form, which has sometimes vera added to its
name, this one has a plain and somewhat "dumpy" appearance, and frequently the tips of the
leaves curl back, which further detracts from its ornamental quality. A third form has small
rosettes, pale green foliage, indistinct silvery dots, and, worse than all, the habit of throwing
out a progeny of young growths all round the collar, furnishing itself as with a ruff, when
the parent rosette turns to a yellowish-green. Of all the forms this is the most constant bloomer.
The favourite variety, to which an engraving can do but scant justice, is superior to the above
kinds in all its parts. Its blooming period is in early summer, but specimens often grow in
size and beauty for three or five years without producing flowers. The foliage is the more
admired feature, and is at its greatest beauty in December.

The flowers are borne in handsome panicles, in the style of those of S. pyramidalis, which
are about 18in. high. The blossom is of the kind common to this section. The leaves are long,
narrow, toothed bluntly, and spotted with silvery dots; the whole leaf is greyish; the habit
is rigid and of even arrangement; the rosettes are of all sizes, from 2in. to 10in. in diameter.
At 3in. to 6in. they are attractive, and as they grow larger, they become conspicuous in their
beauty. It is not desirable to have them flower, inasmuch as the rosettes are then destroyed,
though the plants do not die. Of course, if a specimen "shows bloom" it cannot be helped, but
rather than lose a season's produce of young stock I would nip out the "lead," and so cause
offsets to be produced instead of flowers.

In the rock garden this is one of the most telling subjects that can be introduced; not only
does it love to have its roots amongst the stones, but it is a form which harmonises and yet
contrasts finely with such shapeless material, and, further, relieves the sameness of verdure
of other plants in a more than ordinary degree. It will grow in borders or beds, but looks
nowhere so well as on rockwork. True, its uses are limited, but then they are exceedingly effective.
I have grown this subject in almost every kind of soil and compost, and it has done well in
most; stiff clay-like loam appears too cold or wet for it; on the other hand, a sandy loam,
mixed with leaf soil, grows it finely; perfect drainage is the desideratum, in no matter what
position it is planted. It may be increased in various ways--1st, By seeds, which may be bought,
as it is carefully harvested abroad; 2nd, from offsets, as already stated; and, 3rd, from offsets
produced by cutting out the leaves in two or more parts, so as to let the light in at the collar.
This method may seem heartless, and it certainly spoils the specimen; it is a mode to be followed
only where there are spare old plants and young stock is needed.

Flowering period, June and July.

Saxifraga Macnabiana.

MACNAB'S SAXIFRAGA; Nat. Ord. SAXIFRAGACEÆ.

This is a new and very beautiful variety, called after Mr. MacNab, who raised it in 1877. Of
the several hundreds of species and varieties of this genus, it is doubtless one of the best
and most distinct as regards its habit and rich flowers. So pronounced are its merit that,
although I have not grown it for more than four years or so, I can have no hesitation in sounding
its praise. It is possible that when it has become better established in the collections of
amateurs and others, and when it has regained what may be termed its natural vigour, lost by
the too rapid propagation common to new plants, it may prove to be even better than I have
yet proved it. However that may be, there can at present be only one opinion respecting it.

The rosette foliage is in the style of S. longifolia and S. pyramidalis, intermediate; the
flowers are quite distinct, but they remind one of the charming S. mutata, which is also a
rosette form, having a fine panicle of blossom. It is said to be a seedling from S. Nepalensis
crossed by S. cotyledon or S. pyramidalis, but, as the cross was accidental, there must be
some uncertainty; both parents are evidently incrusted forms.

The flowers are ½in. across, corolla flat, petals richly spotted with numerous bright red spots;
they are much shorter than the petals of most of the other incrusted varieties; they are also
slightly reflexed in the more matured flowers; the calyx, too, is less hairy and the segments
shorter than those of its reputed parents. The stem of my tallest specimen is not more than
15in. high; the panicle is large, beginning about four inches above the rosette. It is well
branched, the flowers being clustered at the ends of the branchlets. The whole panicle will
be about 10in. long and 6in. or 8in. through. As regards the foliage, I only need add to what
has already been stated, that the leaves are arranged in somewhat lax rosettes, are strap,
or tongue-shaped, evenly serrated, and, in the winter bright at the edges, with frosted or
silvery markings; the flowers are so very attractive that casual observers readily recognise
their beauties amongst hundreds of other Saxifrages, and they have not inaptly been compared
with fine old china.

I ought not to omit mention of that rare quality possessed by this Saxifrage, viz., a rich perfume.

Though it is perfectly hardy, it may be grown in pots with great advantage, as then it can
be the more closely examined; but if it is not convenient to grow it in that manner, it may
be planted either on rockwork or in borders amongst choice things, where its flowers will not
fail to command admiring notice. As to the kind of soil, it seems in no way particular. Sandy
loam, mixed with peat, however, suits it well. It is propagated by offsets, but these are rarely
produced in numbers, as is common with most of the incrusted Saxifrages. I may say that I have
only met with one specimen which has thus proved useful in any degree worth notice, and it
produced nearly a score of offsets during one season; it ripens much seed, which may, or may
not come true.

Flowering period, June and July.

Saxifraga Mutata.

Nat. Ord. SAXIFRAGACEÆ.

A somewhat rare alpine species, evergreen, hardy, very distinct and beautiful. It is one of
the rosette forms, after the style of S. pyramidalis, but there are several important variations
about the plant, other than in the flowers, which are totally different. There are many peculiarities
about this species, but they would hardly require to be noticed here were not the plant otherwise
of great merit. When in bloom it is highly decorative, and the flowers in a cut state are unique.

The flower stem is 12in. to 18in. high, furnished with supplementary ones all its length; the
lower ones are 8in. long, and spreading; they become shorter as they near the top, the whole
forming a fine symmetrical panicle. The flowers are over ½in. across, petals awl-shaped, and,
when first open, are nearly red; they change to dark orange and again to pale yellow; the calyx
is very large, the sepals four times as broad as the petals and bluntly pointed; the stamens
and anthers are coloured, and change like the petals; the ovary, which is very conspicuous,
is a fine purple, but later, it, too, changes to a pink colour; the outer parts of the calyx
and all the shorter flower-stalks, which are clustered at the ends of the supplementary stems,
are greenish-yellow, and this feature of the plant adds much to its beauty. Calyx, stems, and
stem-leaves are densely furnished with stiff gland-tipped hairs, rendering them clammy to the
touch. The leaves of the rosettes are tongue-shaped, rough at the edges, fleshy, covered with
glandular hairs, of a shining green colour, and slightly reflexed. The changeable nature of
the flowers doubtless gives rise to the specific name. A well-flowered specimen is very effective
on rockwork, but the panicles have a fault of heading over, from their weight, and also because,
unlike S. longifolia and S. cotyledon, which have large and firm rosettes close to the ground
to stay them, this species has a somewhat "leggy" rosette or a foot stalk, which is more or
less furnished with browned and very persistent foliage. The flowers last a long time in good
form, and, if grown clean, their yellow--nearly golden--stalks render them very useful in a
cut state.

The propagation of this Saxifraga is more difficult than any other according to my experience,
and I have heard of many who have found it the same. The offsets are not produced close to
the ground, consequently have no rootlets; neither, from their hairy character, can they resist
rot from moisture so well when planted as if they were bald, like the stolons of other species.
I have found the best plan to be as follows: Take offsets before the plants flower; if there
are none, which will often be the case, the bloom must be sacrificed by pinching out the stem.
As soon as there are nice sized shoots ready, cut them off with all possible length of stalk;
prepare a sandy patch of soil in a warm situation, lay them in a row on the surface, heads
to the north, and then place a brick on them so as to hold all the cuttings in position; gently
press on the brick, to cause the cuttings to assume a more natural position, and they will
need no other attention until they become rooted; the brick will act as a screen from the hot
sunshine, absorbing the heat to the benefit of the cuttings, as it will also absorb superfluous
moisture. During the summer I have rooted many offsets in this way. That contact with the brick
is favourable to the roots is evidenced by their clinging to it; no water should be given,
however droughty the season may be--excessive moisture is the main thing to guard against.

Flowering period, June to August.

Saxifraga Oppositifolia (Lin.)

PURPLE MOUNTAIN SAXIFRAGE, PURPLE SAXIFRAGE, BLUE SAXIFRAGE, OPPOSITE-LEAVED SAXIFRAGE; Nat.
Ord. SAXIFRAGACEÆ.

During the month of March this is one of the most effective flowers in our gardens. The mossy
appearance of its foliage, when dotted with its large blossoms, is hardly less beautiful than
when the whole broad spreading tufts are literally packed with them. This must be a dear flower
to all lovers of our native flora, for it not only comes very early, and in its wild homes
on the Ingleborough, Welsh, and Scottish hills, greets and gladdens the rambler, who is, perhaps,
making his first excursion of the year, but it is one of our most striking and beautiful flowers,
even though they are produced on a plant of such humble size and habit. The pleasing and descriptive
names of this gem of our hills would form a chapter in themselves. Even the old Latin names
by which it was known, before the time when Linnæus arranged and re-named most of our native
plants, bespeak a desire to do justice to a flower of more than ordinary beauty; and, as they
were so strictly descriptive, at least one, I think, may be given without trying the reader's
patience: Saxifraga alpina ericoides flore cæruleo, or the Blue-flowered Erica-like Mountain
Saxifrage. Doubtless, shorter names are more convenient, but such specific names as the one
just given are not entirely useless. Its present botanical name is in reference to the foliage
only, but otherwise so distinct is this plant either in or out of bloom that no one could well
mistake it.

The flowers are ½in. to ¾in. across, produced terminally and singly on short procumbent stems.
They are of a bright purple colour; petals ovate; the longish stamens carry bold anthers furnished
with dark orange-coloured pollen, which forms a pretty feature. The leaves are small, crowded,
opposite, ovate, entire, leathery, fringed or ciliated, and retuse. A peculiar feature about
this species is the pore at the blunt apex of each leaf. The habit is prostrate; the stems
being long, tufted, or pendulous, according to the situation; the flower shoots are upright,
on which the leaves are more remote. Under cultivation newly planted roots will be found not
only to flower sparingly, but the blooms will be rather small until the plant grows large and
strong.

On rockwork, with its roots near or between large stones, is in every way the best place for
it; it however, thrives in the borders. The soil is not of much importance, but without doubt
it does best in a compost of the nature of that of its wild homes. The humus and grit may be
represented by sand and small stones, and peat or leaf soil, all mixed with loam. This, let
me here state, will be found generally the right stuff for alpines and rockery plants. This
plant is useful as a spring bedder, or for carpeting bare places; and any conspicuous part
of the garden needing bright objects during March and April should give room largely for this
cheerful subject. The bloom is very lasting; no storm seems to do it any hurt, and in every
way it is reliable. It may be readily propagated by divisions. The procumbent stems will, in
strong patches, be found to supply rootlets in abundance. These may be transplanted at almost
any time of the year.

Flowering period, March and April.

S. opp. alba is a white flowered variety of the above. It is not found wild. Other dissimilarities
are the smaller parts throughout the whole plant, and the less straggling habit. The white
petals show up the dark orange anthers finely. There are other varieties of the above type,
but their points of difference are so slight as not to need description for garden uses. It
may, however, be useful to give their names: S. opp. major, S. opp. pyrenaica, S. opp. retusa,
S. opp. pallida. All the above varieties may be grown like the common form; their uses, propagation,
and blooming period are the same, with the exception of pyrenaica, which not only flowers a
little later, but is less rampant, and not nearly so easy to propagate. I have imagined that
a little limestone has helped it, bits of which are placed over its roots.

Saxifraga Paradoxa.

PARADOXICAL SAXIFRAGE; Nat. Ord. SAXIFRAGACEÆ.

One of the less known and, perhaps, somewhat rare saxifrages; it is a curious, distinct, and
beautiful form, being of that class which the lover of the ornamental kinds most admires, for
not only is it attractive all the year round, but additionally so when there cannot be seen
any part of a growing or decaying flower stem upon it, and when its silvery, but lax rosettes,
with their encrustments and glistening leaf dots, are perfectly matured, which is the case
during mid-winter. I fear the illustration (Fig. 89), can give but a poor idea of the pleasing
silvery-grey colour, which, when the specimen is dry, overlays foliage of a dark and glossy
green, to say nothing of the numerous and regular spots which so charmingly enliven the specimens.
I am unable to learn to what species it is most nearly related; its name, which doubtless has
reference to its peculiar form and habit, would seem to isolate it even from its parents, if
such are known; it, however, belongs to that section having thick leathery leaves, ligulate,
encrusted, arranged in rosette form, and having excavated dots. Saxifraga lingulata, S. crustata,
S. Australis, S. longifolia, and S. carinthiaca belong to the same section; but S. paradoxa
differs much in general appearance from them all, and remarkably so in one or two respects,
as, indeed, it does from the whole genus, thus justifying its name. The uneven length and arrangement
of leaves, the casting off of the encrustments as a skin or in flakes, exposing to view a finely-polished
surface, and the general web-like appearance of the tufts, are all peculiar to it. Of all the
varieties of its section it most resembles S. carinthiaca and S. Australis; these forms, however,
grow in compact rosette form, having leaves of more even size and shape. Our subject is irregular
in every way, many of the leaves pushing out to double the length of others, and becoming attenuated
at their junction, or club-shaped.

Its flowers are insignificant and similar to those of S. Aizoon, but more dwarf in the stem.
The leaves are ½in. to 3in. long, very narrow and tongue-shaped, sometimes obtuse and club-shaped;
stout, dark green, with a greyish crust-like covering, and deeply dotted with bright spots.
The leaves are arranged in lax rosettes and are reflexed or pressed flat to the earth nearly
all their length. The habit is very pretty in established and fair-sized specimens, which accommodate
themselves to the form of surface, and the longer or erratic leaves become so interlaced with
the other parts as to appear woven; this habit and the bright bead-like dots go to make the
plant more than ordinarily attractive. It should be in every collection of choice Saxifrages;
it is charming as a pot specimen, plunged and grown out of doors the year round.

On rockwork it should have a place, too, among the gems, being a neat and slow grower; its
position should be near dark-coloured stones, where it will prove most telling. In damp weather
its silvery parts are obliterated, but a breeze of half-an-hour or a beam of sunshine soon
brings it into full beauty again. Gritty peat and a little loam suits it well; I have it doing
nicely in ordinary garden soil; but if the more carefully prepared composts are employed, the
results well repay the pains so taken. Its propagation is easily carried out by root divisions;
early spring is a good time for the operation.

Flowering period, May and June.

Saxifraga Pectinata.

Nat. Ord. SAXIFRAGACEÆ.

This belongs to the encrusted section, being most distinctly toothed; from this it takes its
name; the teeth are large for such small leaves. Specimens of this Saxifrage, though small,
are exceedingly pretty. Excepting when there is fog or rain, it is nearly white; and the rosettes,
of various sizes, from ¼in. to 1in. across, are not only neat in themselves, but are densely
and pleasingly arranged in a hard flat mass. It is never more beautiful, not even in May and
June, when it flowers, than in November, when the growth is both complete and ripened, and
the scaly substance which is spread over the leaves and the silvery teeth combine to render
it attractive.

The flowers are of the usual form, and are produced on stems 4in. to 6in. high; they are white.
The leaves seldom exceed ½in. in length and 1/8in. in width; they are spathulate in form, stout,
and rigid. The rosettes are somewhat flattened and numerous, and give the idea of greenish-white
flowers.

S. p. hybrida is a variety of the foregoing species, and without pretending to say what the
type has been crossed with to produce this handsome form, I may, for the purpose of conveying
an idea of what it is like, say that it approaches S. aizoon, which also flowers in May and
June. In all its parts it is larger than the type; the leaves are greener and more strap-shaped,
and are more erect, but not so rigid; the habit, too, differs--it forms more rounded tufts.
In all these respects it will be seen to resemble S. aizoon. It is a lovely form; the sparkling
teeth are relieved by the fine dark green ground of the foliage.

These comb-leaved Saxifrages belong to the more neat and effective rock plants; the type, at
least, is of alpine origin, and under cultivation it seems most happy amongst the stones. I
have grown these kinds as pot specimens, on nearly flat beds, and as edging plants; and in
every position they prove attractive. It is very strange that such pretty forms are not more
generally seen in gardens; they will grow well on walls and the tops of outhouses, and are
good subjects for town gardens. Any kind of sandy soil will do for them; that of a vegetable
character is, however, the best; they may be planted with choicer things, for, unlike many
of the genus, they are not rampant growers. Practically, they need no propagating; for as the
specimens spread they make new roots, and at any time one or half a dozen rosettes may be slipped
off for planting elsewhere. It is better, though, to avoid this with small plants, as their
full beauty is not realised until they become of considerable size.

Flowering period, May and June.

Saxifraga Peltata.

Nat. Ord. SAXIFRAGACEÆ.

A new species to English gardens, hardy, herbaceous, and perennial, imported from North America;
it is a truly noble plant. The illustration (Fig. 90) will convey some idea of its fine form,
but the reader must rely on the description for its size when fully developed. When the flowers
of this Saxifrage are in their best form, the noble foliage is scarcely half developed; a drawing,
therefore (though it could hardly be made at a stage when the plant is more interesting), must
necessarily fail, in this case, to give any more than an approximate idea of the parts undeveloped.
Not only is this the largest species of the extensive genus at present grown in this country,
but its form is both distinct and noble.

The flowers are produced on stems 18in. high and ¾in. thick at the base, being covered with
long stiff white hairs, which are very conspicuous on the reddish stems. The flowers are similar
to those of most of the genus, as may be seen by the one given in the drawing; they are arranged
in massive heads, 3in. to 6in. in diameter, and rose-coloured. The leaves at the flowering
time are 6in. or 9in. across, having stout, round, ruddy stems, 8in. long, covered with stiff
hairs; they form a junction with the leaves in an unusual way, viz., near the centre, whence
the specific name peltata, or umbrella shape; but the form of the leaves at the flowering period,
which is funnel-shape, is, a little later on, reversed, the edges bending downwards. The younger
leaves are folded and hooked downward, having the appearance of stout fern fronds just out
of the ground, and their stalks are much contorted. The more advanced leaves are seen to be
seven-cut, each lobe divided and sub-divided by cuts less deep, the whole leaf being richly
toothed and veined. The under side is covered with hairs, the upper surface being smooth, shining,
and of a pleasing bronze-green colour. Later, the foliage in every way increases very much
in size, reaching a height of 2ft., and each leaf measuring nearly a foot across. The root
or rhizoma is horizontal, progressive, jointed, and fibrous at the joints, and nearly 2in.
in diameter; it may be clearly traced on the surface, but the fibrous parts go very deep.

It is said to be a bog subject; fortunately, however, this fine plant may be grown otherwise
than in a bog, but it should not want for depth of rich soil. This I believe to be a more important
condition than a boggy situation, inasmuch as I have grown my specimen for three years on the
top of a dry mound; but the soil is good rich loam, and fully 5ft. deep; and to show that this
strong-growing subject needs a good depth of soil, I may mention that I had occasion to dig
up a piece, when it was found, for the operation, to require both the strength and tools that
trees demand, the fibrous parts being deep and tough. When fairly established it makes rapid
growth, and when in full leaf it proves very effective. Its propagation is easy with healthy
plants; a length of the creeping root, with a crown to it, should be cut from the parent stock
just before growth commences in early March. If planted as indicated in the foregoing remarks,
and kept shaded with a leafy branch for a month or two, there need not be any fear about young
plants becoming established the first season.

Flowering period, June.

Saxifraga Purpurascens.

LARGE-LEAVED PURPLE SAXIFRAGA, MEGASEA section; Nat. Ord. SAXIFRAGACEÆ.

A rare plant of great beauty. It is figured here without flowers, as I consider it in finer
form then than when in bloom. Fine as its flowers are, much resembling those of S. cordifolia
and S. crassifolia (also of the Megasea section); the brightness and colouring of its leaves
in autumn are such as to render it distinct from all the other species. I need only ask the
reader to note the fine foliage indicated in the cut (Fig. 91), and inform him that in the
autumn it turns to a glossy vermilion colour, and I think he will admit that it will not come
far short in beauty of any flower. The species is a recent introduction from the Himalayas,
and in this climate proves all but evergreen (if tinted foliage can be so called) and hardy.
The latter quality has been doubted by some, but by others re-asserted. My present specimen
was planted in the open garden in the spring of 1880, since which time it has withstood 22deg.
of frost.

The flowers are produced on stout stems, 8in. high, arranged in branched heads, of a rose or
rosy-purple colour, and bell-shaped. They are, however, soon damaged by unfavourable weather,
and there is little about the plant at that period to render it more attractive than its fellows;
its finer qualities are developed as more genial weather prevails. When the stout foliage grows
glossy, waved, and of a deep clear green colour, the edges of the leaves become lined with
red as if hemmed with red silk; the leaves also have the edges irregular in form, the outline
broadly oval, 4in. to 6in. long, and they are veined and slightly wrinkled; during the autumn
a yellow tint starts from the edge, and in time becomes a vermilion, which is all the more
effective from the leaf being of leather-like substance.

It enjoys a deep rich loam; and, evidently, to place its roots in contact with pieces of limestone
is beneficial. Rare as the plant is, this is all that I do for it, and not only does it remain
healthy, but it has increased greatly in size during the last year. I have not as yet tried
to propagate it, but so far as I can judge there will be no difficulty in forming young stock
by root division. It has hitherto enjoyed a happy immunity from all garden pests, not excepting
slugs.

Flowering period, April to June.

Saxifraga Pyramidalis.

PYRAMIDAL SAXIFRAGA; Nat. Ord. SAXIFRAGACEÆ.

This is a very handsome form or variety of S. Cotyledon, and belongs to the alpine regions
of Europe. As a decorative subject for our gardens, it is highly and deservedly esteemed; its
attractiveness consists more in the numbers and arrangement of the flowers than in any beauty
which belongs to them individually, though they are not devoid of that quality.

Of the many hundreds of species and varieties of Saxifrages which bloom during the month of
June, this is one of the most distinct and useful as a decorative flower, and where the Saxifrages
are grown in large collections, as they often are, giving more than an ordinary amount of pleasure
compared with collections of other genera, the kind now under consideration always asserts
itself as one of the first order of merit. Not only in its blooming state, but all the year
round, it is very effective and striking; it is a free grower, having handsome, large rosetted
foliage.

The flowers, as will be seen by the one given, natural size, in the illustration (Fig. 92),
are of the common Saxifrage form, but rather more highly coloured in the central markings than
the general run. They are produced on stout stems, 2ft. high, well and evenly branched in the
form of a pyramid, whence the specific name. Each flower will be ½in. or more across; they
are very numerous, and, partly from the fact that they remain perfect for a very long while,
and partly because of the habit of the plant being to open all its flowers about or near the
same time, the large panicle of bloom is very fine. The leaves, as already hinted, are formed
into lax rosettes, which are 5in. to 7in. across; they are strap-shaped, narrowing slightly
at the connection, half an inch wide, the outer ones being reflexed; the edges are finely serrated,
and irregularly lined with a silver colouring.

This is a capital plant for rockwork, where it shows itself to much advantage; but specimens
are much finer grown in beds or borders, where the moisture and temperature at the roots are
likely to be more equable; besides, I find that, owing to its small quantity of roots, all
of which are very near the surface, when grown on rockwork they may often be seen bare on inclined
surfaces, and the weight of the flowers drags them entirely out of the soil on one side. They
may be planted as an edging to a shrubbery, in bold groups, or as ordinary border flowers.
So useful has this variety been found by professional gardeners that it is now largely grown
in pots in single rosettes, which, after becoming well established, send up their rich plumes
of blossom, all the finer for having been kept clean under glass. So grown, nothing can better
repay the small amount of trouble which they give in order to place them in the conservatory
as showy specimens; all they require being a 4in. pot, well drained, a compost of half-rotted
leaves, and fat loam and sand. Put in one rooted offset any time from June to the end of July,
the earlier the better; plunge the pot to its rim in sand or ashes until next spring, when
it may be taken under glass if desired. To have fine flowers, the offsets should be pinched
off as they appear. I may also mention that a somewhat shady situation has proved conducive
to large and better coloured flowers; between irises 4ft. high and shrubs 6ft. high, the opening
being not more than 3ft., running north and south. The specimen from which the drawing is taken
was grown along with many others. A baking or dry treatment is often not only given to plants
of this genus, but believed to be of advantage to them; it may be to some, but there are exceptions,
and this is one without doubt. All the sections of Saxifraga to which it belongs are fond of
good loam, well enriched. It is propagated from offsets taken as soon as they are from an inch
to two inches across; they may either be put into nursery beds or be planted in their blooming
quarters.

Flowering period, June and July.

Saxifraga Rocheliana.

ROCHEL'S SAXIFRAGE; Nat. Ord. SAXIFRAGACEÆ.

Another hardy evergreen species, distinct in form, foliage and flowers, and a native of the
alpine regions of central Europe; it nevertheless thrives well in our climate with ordinary
care. Its foliage takes the form of miniature rosettes, which are closely packed; the tiny
leaves are distinctly and regularly dotted; and present a frosted appearance.

The flowers are unimportant, though they form an interesting feature of such a choice and somewhat
rare plant; they are small, white, and produced on stems 3in. to 4in. high, which are thick
and curiously furnished with leaves. During summer this species has a very bright silvery appearance,
as if laid on in patches.

Similar treatment is required for this as for S. Burseriana, but it will be found much more
difficult to propagate, as its roots are of the tap kind, and are more sparingly produced,
while its seed seldom ripens, I believe, in this climate. To increase it, the better plan is
to prepare the old plant by keeping it well earthed up, and so encouraging new roots; after
a year's patience it may be divided in April. The small pieces should be secured by stones
or verbena pins, and a supply of pebbles placed around them will keep them cool and moist during
summer.

Flowering period, March and April.

Saxifraga Umbrosa.

LONDON PRIDE; Nat. Ord. SAXIFRAGACEÆ.

This common flower is well known, and is only mentioned here as the typical form, and by way
of introducing a beautiful variety called S. u. variegata, broad cushions of which, from their
verdant condition, good habit, and pleasing variations of leaf colour, are amongst the more
attractive objects of the garden in January. It hardly need be said that the plant is not valued
for its flowers, which are similar to those of the parent form and borne at a corresponding
date. The leaves, however, are much less in size and more flatly arranged in rosette form,
they are also recurved at the edges. The markings are of two colours, creamy-white and pink,
and there are many shades of green. The forms of the markings are most irregular, as striped,
flecked, marbled, dotted, and edged; the various shades of green blended with pink and white,
although figured on one of the commonest plants we know, render such plant worthy of a place
in every garden, and more especially on rockwork.

It has this drawback--it is not constant. In some gardens the markings die out. This, however,
need not be, for a rather dry situation and rich soil will produce rosettes of large size and
good figuring. Still, there will be fully half of the rosettes entirely green in a large patch;
this is more desirable than otherwise. The marked ones have a more starry effect in such a
green setting; it is only when all become green that disappointment is felt. Sometimes I have
noticed rosettes, about the size of a penny-piece, all one colour--creamy-white--which, when
cut from the plant, very much resembled a carnation. Such abnormal forms are of no moment to
the botanist, but if nine out of every ten persons who see this plant are interested, not to
say pleased with it, it ought not to be entirely neglected. It is most effective in patches
1ft. to 2ft. broad. In propagating it the more finely marked pieces only should be taken.

Flowering period, May to July.

Saxifraga Wallacei.

Nat. Ord. SAXIFRAGACEÆ.

A hardy perennial hybrid variety, of first-class merit. Its loose and spreading panicles of
large pure white flowers are something better than the ordinary run of bloom belonging to this
extensive genus; it is said to be the offspring of species of the mossy section; but there
is certainly a great likeness about its foliage to some of the horny section, such as S. cornutum
or S. pentadactylis, or even the handsome S. geranioides. It would, however, be hard to say
what it is from; but in it we have not only a showy but most useful variety (see Fig. 93).
It has deservedly grown into great favour, though known to amateurs but for three years. It
begins to flower in April, but in May it is in its best form, being covered with a rich mass
of bloom from the foliage to the height of a foot.

The flowers, as before stated, are of a pure white--an unusual colour amongst the genus; they
are bell-shaped but erect, the ovate petals reverse. Well-grown specimens with me have flowers
quite an inch across. The individual blooms last more than a week, and the succession is well
maintained during summer. The panicles are leafy, having small entire leaves, and others once
and twice-cut. The stems of the present season's growth are stout, semi-transparent, and ruddy;
the leaves are palmate, slender at the bottom, mostly five-fingered, fleshy, and covered with
long silky hairs which stand well off; the fine apple-green foliage is shown to great advantage
by the ruddy stems.

This plant may be grown in pots or borders, as edging, or on rockwork, and in any kind of soil;
but to have fine specimens and large flowers it should be planted in calcareous loam, and be
top dressed in early spring with well rotted manure. I have it as an edging to a small bed
of roses; the position is bleak, but the soil is good; it furnishes large quantities of cut
bloom, and otherwise, from its rich hawthorn-like scent, it proves a great treat. So freely
is its handsome foliage produced that it, too, may be cut in quantities for table decoration.
If the flowers, or some of them, be left on, the tufts will form a pretty setting for a few
other small flowers of decided colours.

To increase this Saxifrage is a simple matter during the warm season: The twiggy tufts should
be pulled asunder, no matter whether they have roots or no roots; if dibbled into fine soil,
deeply dug, and shaded for a week or two, they will form strong plants before the winter sets in.

Flowering period, April to August.

Scilla Campanulata.

BELL-FLOWERED SCILLA or BLUEBELL; Nat. Ord. LILIACEÆ.

A hardy bulbous perennial, introduced from Spain 200 years ago. It very much resembles the
English hyacinth--H. nutans, or Scilla non-scripta--better known as the wood hyacinth. Handsome
as this simple flower is, it might have been omitted from these notes as a plant too well known,
but for the fact that there are several varieties of the species which are less known, very
beautiful, and deliciously fragrant, entitling them to a place amongst other choice flowers,
both in books and gardens.

Of the typical form little need be said by way of description. The flowers are bell-shaped,
pendent, blue, and produced in racemes of many flowers. The leaves are lance-shaped, prostrate,
and of a dark shining green colour.

S. c. alba differs from the type in having its white flowers arranged more evenly round the
scape, being shorter in the divisions of petals and wider at the corolla; the habit of the
plant, too, as may be seen by the illustration (Fig. 94), is more rigid and neat. In a cut
state the flowers are not only very lasting, but if gathered clean, they are suitable for the
most delicate wreath or bouquet.

S. c. carnea has pink flowers.

All the forms of S. campanulata are cheerful and effective spring flowers. They should be grown
in bold clumps, and if under slight shade, where many other things cannot be well grown, all
the better; still, they are in no way particular--any aspect, position, or soil will answer
for these robust flowers. Such being the case, few gardens should be without at least the finer
forms of the large Bluebell. So fast do these varieties increase by seed and otherwise, that
any remarks on their propagation are unnecessary.

Flowering period, April to June.

Sedum Sieboldi.

SIEBOLD'S STONECROP; Nat. Ord. CRASSULACEÆ.

This is a capital species. It is perfectly hardy, though not generally known to be so. It is
more often seen under glass, and is certainly a pretty pot plant.

Its stems are 12in. or less in length, slender and procumbent. The leaves, which are rather
larger than a shilling, fleshy, cupped, and glaucous, are curiously arranged on the stems,
somewhat reflexed, and otherwise twisted at their axils, presenting a flattened but pleasing
appearance. The small flowers, which are bright rose, are borne in clusters, and remain two
or three weeks in perfection.

It is a fine subject for rockwork, and, moreover, likes such dry situations as only rockwork
affords. It should be so planted that its graceful stems can fall over the stones. There is
a variety of this species, with creamy foliage, but it is less vigorous; neither are the flowers
so fine in colour. Slugs are fond of these, and sometimes they will eat off nearly every leaf.
A sprinkling of sharp sand once a week keeps them off, but trapping them with hollowed turnips
is a more effective remedy. Propagated by cuttings pricked into sand in summer, or division
of roots when the tops have died down.

Flowering period, August and September.

Sedum Spectabile.

SHOWY STONECROP; Nat. Ord. CRASSULACEÆ.

Hardy and herbaceous. This is one of our finest autumn bloomers. During September, the broad
massive heads of small rosy flowers, which are arranged in cymes 6in. across, are very attractive,
and will, with average weather, keep in good form for a month. This species is somewhat mixed
up with another called S. Fabarium; by many they are said to be identical, but such is not
the case. I grow them side by side, and I may say that they are as "like as two peas" up to
midsummer, when they begin to diverge. S. Fabarium continues to grow to the height, or rather
length, of 2ft., and tumbles over; the foliage has a lax appearance, and the flowers are very
pale. Concurrently S. spectabile has grown its stems and glaucous leaves to stouter proportions,
and crowned them with more massive heads of bright rose-coloured flowers, at the height of
15in. It is larger in all its parts, with the exception of length of stem, and by September
it is nearly twice the size of S. Fabarium; it also stands erect, so that then the two species
suggest a contrast rather than a comparison, S. spectabile being by far the more desirable.

I find, however, that it is much slower in increasing itself; the best way to propagate it
is by cuttings dibbled into sand in early summer. The commoner one increases rapidly and often
bears the wrong name; care should therefore be taken to obtain the true species, after which
it will not give much further trouble, thriving in any kind of soil, but it should be planted
in the full sunshine, when its habit and flowers will be greatly improved. It will bear any
amount of drought--indeed, it seems to enjoy it. My finest clump is on a very dry part of rockwork,
where it has always flowered well. These two Stonecrops and a variegated variety are some of
the very few hardy plants which slugs do not graze; at any rate, it is so with me; neither
do other pests attack them, but the humble bees literally cover their flowers the whole day
long at times.

Flowering period, August to October.

Sempervivum Laggeri.

LAGGER'S HOUSELEEK; Nat. Ord. CRASSULACEÆ.

Of the numerous species and varieties of Houseleek, this is at once the most curious, interesting,
and beautiful. It is by far the finest of the webbed forms. It has, however, the reputation
of not being quite hardy, but that it will endure our severest winters is without doubt, and
if we recall its habitats, which are in alpine regions, its hardiness in a low temperature
need not be further questioned. Still, partly from its downy nature, and partly from the dampness
of our winters, this climate causes it to rot. There are, however, simple and most efficient
remedies, which shall be mentioned shortly.

The illustration (Fig. 95) gives some idea of its form and habit. The flowering rosettes send
up stems 6in. high; they are well furnished with leaves--in fact, they are the rosettes elongated;
they terminate with a cluster of buds and flowers, which remain several weeks in perfection,
however unfavourable the weather may be.

The flowers are more than an inch across, of a bright rose colour, and very beautiful; the
central flower is invariably the largest, and the number of petals varies from six to twelve.
The leaves are in rosette form, the rosettes being sometimes 2in. across, nearly flat, and
slightly dipped in the centre; a downy web, as fine as a cobweb, covers the rosette, it being
attached to the tips of the leaves, and in the middle it is so dense that it has a matted appearance.
The leaves are very fleshy, glandular, and of a pale green colour. Slow in growth, habit very
compact; it has a tender appearance, but I never saw its web damaged by rain or hail.

Many grow it in pots for indoor use; it finds a happy home on rockwork or old walls; it should
have a dry and sunny situation, and, with these conditions, it will prove attractive all the
year round. It thrives well in gritty loam; a little peat rubbed in with the grit will be an
improvement and also more resemble its native soil. To preserve it from the bad effects of
our damp winters, it need not be taken indoors, but sheets of glass should be tilted over the
specimens during the short days, when they are dormant; the glass should not touch the plant.
This seems to be the nearest condition we can afford it as a substitute for the snows of its
mountain home, and I may add, for years it has proved effective; in fact, for several years
I have left specimens in the open without any shelter whatever, and the percentage of loss
has been very low, though the seasons were trying. It propagates itself freely by offsets;
if it is intended to remove them from the parent plant, it should be done early in summer,
so that they may become established before winter, otherwise the frosts will lift them out
of position.

Flowering period, June to August.

Senecio Pulcher.

NOBLE GROUNDSEL; Nat. Ord. COMPOSITÆ.

Autumn is the heyday of Composite flowers. The one now under notice has the merit of being
of an unusual and beautiful colour, viz., purplish crimson. It is, in fact, a new plant in
English gardens, and has been justly described as one of the finest imports of recent years;
it has only to be seen in order to commend itself to all lovers of hardy flowers (see Fig.
96). It is a robust grower, ranking with the more noble subjects suitable for the borders.
Its hardiness is doubted by many, and a few have suspected its perennial quality; but notwithstanding
the warm climate of South America (whence it hails), it has proved both hardy and perennial
in this country. Excessive moisture is its greatest enemy.

Its bright purplish-crimson flowers are daisy-shaped and large, the centre being a fine golden
yellow--on strong young plants the flowers will be 3in. across. Moreover, they are numerously
produced on stems 3ft. high, in branching cymes, and last a long time in perfection; with favourable
weather an individual bloom will stand above a week, and the plant provides itself with abundance
of buds for succession. I never yet saw a specimen that developed half its buds, but this brings
me to notice one of its faults (for it has more than one), viz., it is too late in blooming;
at any rate, in Yorkshire we rarely get more than three weeks' enjoyment of its flowers, when,
but for severe frosts, it appears capable of blooming for two months. To some extent this may
be remedied, as will be shown when I refer to its culture. The radical leaves are over a foot
long, stem leaves much smaller, very dark holly green of leather-like substance, the edges
very unevenly shaped, the general form of the leaf being something like the cos lettuce.

The cut blooms are indeed fine and cannot well be inappropriately used. This brings me to fault
No. 2. The flower stems are very hollow and dry, nearly as much so as the hemlock or kex, and
I have found that when flowers have been cut, either from the moisture collecting in the stem,
or some such cause, rot sets in lower down, and soon the branches of bloom head over. I tried
cutting to a joint where the cavity was stopped, but the pith when so exposed soon gave way,
so that latterly I have ceased to cut the flowers, unless the occasion was worth the risk.
A specimen not cut from did not suffer from stem rot. I, therefore, blamed the cutting. There
may, however, be other causes; at any rate, there is the fact of fine flowers in their prime
falling over, and it is worth one's while to try to find out from what cause it happens, and
if my theory is not the true one, it may prove useful as a hint.

It likes a deep and rich soil, and well deserves to have it; if left out all the winter, a
piece of glass should be put over the crown, because it has the fault (No. 3) of rotting in
the centre, as I believe from water being conducted down its spout-like stems; but even under
the most neglected conditions it stands our winters, and the rootlets send up a number of small
growths in spring. These may make plants, but will not be reliable for bloom the following
autumn; the damage should be prevented if possible. Another plan, by which two points are gained,
is to grow young plants in good-sized pots and winter them, plunged in cold frames, not failing
to give plenty of air. In April these, if compared with others in the open garden, will be
found to be much more forward, and the first gain will be that, if planted out then, they will
flower much more vigorously, and, secondly, they will start earlier by two weeks at least.
To propagate this fine border plant, the very long and fleshy roots may be cut into pieces
6in. long and dibbled into fine soil; they are somewhat slow, but pretty sure to "go"; they
should be protected from slugs, which are very fond of the young leaves. On young stuff, grown
apart from the flower beds and borders, quicklime may be used, which would otherwise be unsightly.

Flowering period, August to October.

Sisyrinchium Grandiflorum.

SATIN-FLOWER, or RUSH LILY; Nat. Ord. IRIDACEÆ.

The generic name of this flower is in reference to the grubbing of swine for its roots, and
means "pig-snout." The common names may be seen, by a glance at the cut (Fig. 97), to be most
appropriate; that of Satin-flower is of American origin the plant being a native of Oregon,
and is in reference to its rich satiny blossom; that of Rush-lily, which is, perhaps, an even
more suitable name, has been recently applied to it, I believe, in this country. It is applicable
alike to the rush-like form and habit of foliage, and the lily-like purity and style of flowers.
It was sent to this country in 1826, and yet it is rarely met with in English gardens. Some
think it scarcely hardy in our climate in certain soils. I happen to have grown it for six
years, which period includes the recent severe winters, and it has not only survived but increased
in a moderate degree. This took place on rockwork facing south; in the autumn of 1881 I divided
the specimen, and planted a part of it in the coldest part of my garden, which is not without
clay, though far from all clay; that division is now a strong plant, and has made an extra
crown; it forms the subject of the present illustration. Let me state, in passing, that it
is naturally a slow grower. The very severe weather of the week previous to my writing this
note, in March, 1883, when 23deg. of frost was registered, which cut down the bloom stems of
Hellebores and many other well-known hardy things, did not hurt this subject very much; I am,
therefore, confident of its hardiness from six years of such experience.

The flowers are 1in. to 1½in. long, and about as much across when open, of a fine purple colour,
with a shining satiny appearance; the six transparent petal-like divisions are of uneven form,
having short bluntish points; from the openness of the corolla the stamens and style are well
exposed, and they are very beautiful. The flowers are produced when the plant is about 6in.
or 9in. high, the buds being developed on a rush-like stem, and enfolded in an almost invisible
sheath 2in. or 3in. from the apex. Gradually the sheath, from becoming swollen, attracts notice,
and during sunshine it will suddenly burst and let fall its precious contents--a pair of beautiful
flowers--which dangle on slender arching pedicels, springing from the sheath-socket. They seem
to enjoy their new-born freedom, and flutter in the March wind like tethered butterflies. Their
happy day, however, is soon over; their fugacious petals shrivel in three or four days. The
leaves are rush-like, ribbed, and sheathed.

I have found it to thrive in loam, both light and moderately stiff, also in vegetable soil
and sand; it likes moisture, but not of a stagnant character; between large stones, at the
base of rockwork, suits it in every way; it may also be grown by the side of the larger kinds
of snowdrops for contrast and effect. Impatient of being disturbed, it is not wisdom to lift
it for any purpose, provided it is making progress, or until it has formed strong tufts; when,
if it is desirable to increase it, and during early autumn, the long roots should be got well
under, and taken out of the ground as entire as possible; from their wiry nature they are then
both easily cleared of earth and divided into single crowns; these should be replanted in positions
deeply dug, and where they are intended to remain, being carefully arranged without any doubling
up. After such pains have been taken with so well-deserving a plant, there will be little to
fear for its future, no matter how severe the winter may prove.

S. g. album is a white-flowered variety, of which, however, I have had no experience. Since
these lines appeared in serial form, a lady, cultivating a good collection of choice hardy
flowers, has informed me that this variety is very fine, and in every way commendable.

Flowering period, March to May, according to positions or climatic conditions.

Soldanellas.

Nat. Ord. PRIMULACEÆ.

Diminutive herbaceous alpine perennials. This genus is small in number of known species as
in size of specimens. They are found in very high altitudes in the Tyrol, Switzerland, and
Germany; but they are easily managed even in our foggy climate, as is shown by the fact of
the various species being grown in all collections of alpines; and, indeed, no collection can
be said to be complete without such gems--they are great favourites, as they well deserve to
be. They flower in early spring, some with one, and others more than one flower on a stem.

The flowers are very small, broadly bell-shaped, and of a feathery appearance, from the fact
of their petals being finely divided. The foliage is also small, nearly round, of good substance,
and in all the following species very bright green; the leaf stalks are long and wiry, and
form neat and handsome little tufts, independent of the flowers, which, I may add, do not last
more than five or six days.

S. alpina, smaller in all its parts, but otherwise much resembling S. montana--has leaves the
size of a shilling piece, flowers bright blue, mostly two on a stem.

S. Clusii, from Germany, is smaller than S. alpina; in other respects similar, with the exception
of flowers, which are purple.

S. minima (smallest). Very tiny in all its parts, many of its little thick leaves being only
¼in. across; flowers purple, single on the stem, which is only ½in. to 1in. long.

S. montana (Fig. 98) is the largest species of all--leaves the size of a half-crown piece,
flowers bright blue, four or five on a stem, 5in. high. It has other distinctions, of a minute
character, from the smaller species, but by difference of size alone it may be readily identified.

All the Soldanellas love a vegetable soil, as peat or leaf mould, to which, when under cultivation,
a liberal quantity of sand should be added. If grown in pots, they make lovely specimens, and
should be plunged in sand and kept moist; but I find my specimens to grow much more vigorously
when planted out, as they are at the base of a small rockery, rather below the level of the
neighbouring walk, which forms a miniature watershed for the supply of moisture. I also fancy
the liverwort, which surrounds them, rather helps them than otherwise. Certain I am, however,
that moisture is the great desideratum in the culture of this genus. My difficulty with the
planted-out specimens is to keep them from being grazed off by the slugs; a dash of silver
sand every day or two has sometimes proved of use. When the Soldanellas once get into proper
quarters they make rapid growth; I have divided them most successfully in April and May.

Flowering period, March to May.

Spiræa Palmata.

PALM-LIKE SPIRÆA; Nat. Ord. ROSACEÆ.

A bold and handsome species from China, imported about sixty years ago. It is perfectly hardy,
though, generally grown in pots and under glass. It belongs to the herbaceous section, and
I may as well state at once that the Spiræas--more especially the herbaceous kinds--are only
decorative when in flower, by which I wish to convey the idea that after they have done flowering,
from their abundant foliage, which then begins to turn sere and ragged, they become unsightly
if planted in conspicuous parts. Still, their flowers and general habit are both rich and handsome
when in their prime, and they are certainly worth growing, especially by those who have large
gardens, where they can be planted in large patches in some of the less frequented parts.

S. palmata (Fig. 99) has remarkably bright rosy-crimson flowers; they are of indistinct form
unless closely examined. It is, however, a well-known form of flower, or arrangement of flowers,
and need not be further described, beyond saying they are in panicles and have a feathery appearance.
The leaves, which are 6in. or more across, have long smooth stems, are mostly seven-lobed,
the lobes being long, pointed, and unevenly serrated. The size of foliage and height of plants
vary very much; if grown in a bog or by the side of a stream, it attains the height of 3ft.
to 4ft.; in drier situations I have seen it flower when only 10in. high. The specimen illustrated
is about 15in. high.

A light spongy vegetable soil, with plenty of moisture, is the main requirement of most of
the Spiræas, and to grow them to perfection little less will do; but a creditable display of
bloom may be enjoyed from plants grown in ordinary garden loam, provided the situation is moist.
By way of experiment, I planted a dozen roots of this species in an exposed border, drained,
and in all respects the same as for the ordinary run of border flowers. They none of them flowered,
and scarcely grew; at no time would they be higher than 6in. I wish to make it clear that the
Spiræas, and especially S. palmata, cannot be grown and bloomed well without an abundance of
moisture at the roots, as I am aware that many have tried and failed with this desirable kind.
It should be treated as a bog plant, then it can scarcely fail to do well. In sunk parts of
rockwork, by the walk gutters, by the side of a pond or stream, or (if there is one) in the
hedge dyke, are all suitable places for this bright flower, and if only for the fine spikes
which it produces for cutting purposes, it should be grown largely; and as most of the positions
indicated are somewhat out of the way, they may perhaps be the more readily thus appropriated.
Propagated by division of strong roots during autumn.

Flowering period, July and August.

Spiræa Ulmaria Variegata.

Syn. S. ODORATA FOL. VAR.; Nat. Ord. ROSACEÆ.

The beautiful variegated form of the well-known "Meadowsweet," other old names being "Mead-sweet,"
and "Queen of the Meadows." The typical form, at least, needs no description, it being one
of the commonest and most appreciated plants of the British flora. This variety, however, is
less known; it differs only as regards the markings of the foliage. When the crimped leaves
are young, the broad golden patches are very effective, and when the plants are fully grown,
the markings of the older foliage become lighter coloured, but not less rich. Of the value
of this as a "fine foliage" plant there can be no doubt; it is very telling, and always admired.
As regards its flowers, they ought not to be allowed to develope. I only mention this subject
for the sake of its beautifully coloured leaves.

Requirements: Ordinary garden loam, in a moist situation; propagated by root divisions during
autumn.

Flowering period, May to August.

Spiræa Venusta.

QUEEN OF THE PRAIRIE; Nat. Ord. ROSACEÆ.

A comparatively new species of the herbaceous section, from North America. In good deep loam
it grows to the height of 3ft. or more.

The flowers are of a soft red, after the manner of those of S. palmata, but rather differently
arranged, viz., in clustered sprays or cymes, which bend outwards; they are durable and very
effective, even when seen at some distance in the garden, whilst for cutting they are flowers
of first-class merit; the leaves are large, somewhat coarse, pinnate, segments sharply lobed
and irregularly serrated.

I find this plant to flower indifferently under the shade of trees, but in a fully exposed
situation, planted in a deep retentive loam, it thrives and flowers well. It is perfectly hardy,
and easily propagated by division during autumn.

Flowering period, June to August.

Statice Latifolia.

BROAD-LEAVED SEA-LAVENDER; Nat. Ord. PLUMBAGINACEÆ.

This hardy perennial is all but evergreen in this climate. Probably there are two varieties
of it, as although the plants in growth and form correspond, there is a notable difference
in the habit of some specimens, as regards the greenness of the foliage in winter; whilst one
shrivels and blackens the other will remain more or less green. It is possible that the native
countries from which they come may have something to do with this fact. The species was introduced
from Portugal in 1740, and again from Siberia in 1791. It need not be wondered at if the variety
from the northern habitat proved the more verdant, notwithstanding its becoming acclimatised.
Its lofty and diffuse panicles are ornamental and lasting; it is a subject which may be grown
in almost any part of the garden, and hardly seem misplaced, notwithstanding its height of
3ft., because only the slender stems, furnished with their minute flowers, rise above the ground,
and from the cloud-like effects more dwarf flowers can be easily seen, even when behind them.
In many such cases, therefore, this gauzy-flowered Sea-lavender proves of advantage.

The bloom is lilac-coloured, each flower being very small. The stout scape at a short distance
above the ground becomes much branched; the branchlets, as already indicated, are slender,
and furnished with the soft blue bloom. The leaves are radical, and arranged in somewhat rosette
form, and for the most part prostrate; many of them are quite a foot long and 5in. broad, or
long egg-shaped; they are wavy, of leathery substance, and a dark shining green colour.

Of all the genus, this is, perhaps, the most useful of the hardy species. Either in a growing
or cut state, the flowers are much admired; cut, they need not be placed in water; and for
a year, until the plant yields fresh supplies, they will remain presentable and even bright.
Its culture is simple, though there are positions where I have found it to simply exist, viz.,
on rockwork, unless it was given a part where moisture would be abundant about the roots, in
search of which its long woody roots go deeply; if planted in deep loam of a light nature,
there will be little fear as to its thriving, but if well manured and mulched, specimens would
grow to nearly double size. Propagated by root division. But often the crowns are all on one
stout root, and then it is not a safe or ready operation; still, with a sharp knife, the woody
root may be split its whole length--this should be done in spring, when the divisions can begin
to grow at once. Another and safer plan would be to divide the root for an inch or more from
the crowns downwards, insert a few pebbles to keep the parts open, and put back the specimen
in freshly dug earth, where, during a season of growth, the cut parts would produce vigorous roots.

Flowering period, August to October.

Statice Profusa.

PROFUSE SEA-LAVENDER; Nat. Ord. PLUMBAGINACEÆ.

A hybrid hardy form, not to be confounded with the hairy-leaved and tender kind commonly grown
under glass, which has the same name. All the Sea-lavenders are profuse blooming, but the one
now under notice is more especially so, as may be seen by the illustration (Fig. 100). The
seed of this genus is prolific in varieties, and, although the name of this variety, or even
the plant, may not be generally known, and the parentage, perhaps, untraceable, it appeared
to such advantage, when grown by the side of such species as S. bellidifolia, S. echioides,
S. gmelina, S. incana, S. latifolia, S. sereptana, S. speciosa, S. tatarica, S. tormentilla,
S. virgata, and S. Wildenovi, that I considered it worth a short description, more especially
as the object of this book is to speak of subjects with telling flowers or attractive forms.
It is well known that the Statices have insignificant blossoms, taken individually, though,
from their great profusion, they have a singular beauty. The variety now under notice, at the
height of 2ft., developed a well branched panicle about the latter end of August; gradually
the minute flowers expanded, when, in the middle of September, they became extremely fine,
the smaller stems being as fine as horsehair, evenly disposed, and rigid; the head being globular,
and supported by a single stem.

The flowers are of a lively lilac, having a brownish or snuff-coloured spiked calyx, the effect
being far prettier than the description would lead one to imagine. The leaves are radical,
6in. to 8in. long, oval, or somewhat spathulate, waved, leathery, shining and dark green, the
outer ones prostrate, the whole being arranged in lax rosette form.

The flowers are very durable, either cut or in the growing state; they may be used to advantage
with dried grasses, ferns, and "everlastings;" or the whole head, when cut, is a good substitute
for gold-paper clippings in an unused fire grate; our people have so used one for two years,
and it has still a fresh appearance. It needs no words of mine to explain that such a plant
as is represented by the illustration will prove highly decorative in any part of the flower
garden. There is nothing special about the culture of the genus. All the Sea-lavenders do well
in sandy loam, enriched with stable manure. Some sorts, the present one included, are not very
readily propagated, as the crowns are not on separate pieces of root, but often crowded on
a woody caudex. I have, however, sometimes split the long root with a sharp knife, and made
good plants; this should only be done in spring, when growth can start at once.

Flowering period, August to frosts.

Stenactis Speciosus.

Syn. ERIGERON SPECIOSUS; SHOWY FLEABANE; Nat. Ord. COMPOSITÆ.

This has not long been cultivated in this country; but though a native of the warm climate
of California, it proves to be one of the most hardy of herbaceous perennials; it begins to
flower in early summer, but August is the heyday of its showiness, and it continues at least
a month longer. Its more recent name, Stenactis, is, according to Paxton, a happy and appropriate
derivation, and tends much to explain the form of flower, "Stene, narrow, and aktin, a sunbeam,
from the narrow and sunlike rays of the expanded flower." It belongs to a genus of "old-fashioned"
flowers, which, moreover, is that of the most modern fashion in flowers. As a garden plant
it is not only effective, but one of that class which will put up with the most offhand treatment;
tenacious of life, neither particular as to soil nor position, constant in fair and foul weather,
and doing duty alike in town or suburban garden, these qualities go to make it a worthy subject.
Whilst it is nearly related to, and much resembles, the starworts or Michaelmas daises, it
far exceeds in beauty the best of them, with only a third of their ungainly length of stem.

The flowers are fully two inches across, of a light purple colour; the disk is somewhat large
and of a greenish yellow; the florets of the ray are numerous, full, narrow, and slightly uneven
at their points, giving the otherwise dense ray a feathery appearance. These large flowers
are produced in bunches of six or ten on each branch, at the height of about eighteen inches;
there are many stems, and each one is well branched, the species being very floriferous; the
leaves are herb-like, lance-shaped, pointed, amplexicaul, and smooth; root-leaves spathulate.

This plant needs no cultural care; its only requirements are a place in the garden and some
one to appropriate its beaming crop of flowers, which cannot fail to be serviceable. As a border
plant, among suitable companions, bold clumps are fine, especially when seen by twilight; in
lines, too, it may be profitably used.

Stokesia Cyanea.

JASPER-BLUE STOKESIA, or STOKES' ASTER; Nat. Ord. COMPOSITÆ.

This handsome, hardy, herbaceous perennial was brought from Carolina in the year 1766. It is
the only species known of the genus, and was named after Jonathan Stokes, M.D., who assisted
Withering, the botanist, in his arrangement of British plants. The order which includes it
is a very extensive one, and it may be useful to add that it belongs to the sub-order Carduaceæ,
or the Thistle family. The mention of this relationship may not help our subject much in the
estimation of the reader, but it must be borne in mind that in plant families as well as others,
there are individual members that often contrast rather than compare with their relatives,
and so it is in the Thistle family, for it embraces the gay Doronicums, silky Gnaphaliums,
shining Arnica, and noble Stobæa and Echinops. But the relationship will, perhaps, be better
understood when it is stated that as a sub-order the Carduaceæ stand side by side with that
of the Asteraceæ, which includes so many well-known and favourite flowers. Let me now ask the
reader to glance at the illustration (Fig. 101), and he will, I think, see marks of affinity
with both the thistle and the aster; the few thorny teeth at the base of the larger leaves,
and the spines on the smaller divisions of the imbricate calyx, are clearly features of the
former, whilst the general form of the plant and flowers are not unlike the aster.

Of all herbaceous plants, this is one of the latest to bloom; in favourable situations it will
begin in October, but often not until November and December in northern parts of the country;
and, I hardly need add, unless severe frosts hold off, it will be cut down before its buds
expand. There is much uncertainty about its flowering, when planted in the ordinary way, so
that, fine as its flowers are, the plant would scarcely be worth a place in our gardens, if
there were no means by which such uncertainty could be at least minimised; and were it not
a fact that this plant may be bloomed by a little special treatment, which it justly merits,
it would not have been introduced in this book, much less illustrated. The plant itself is
very hardy, enduring keen frosts without apparent damage, and the bloom is also durable, either
cut or on the plant.

I scarcely need further describe the flowers, as the form is a very common one. It has, however,
a very ample bract, which supports a large imbricate calyx, the members of which have stiff
bristle-like hairs. Each flower will be 2in. to 3in. across, and of a fine blue colour. The
leaves are arranged on stout round stems, 18in. high, being from 2in. to 6in. long, somewhat
lobed and toothed at the base, the teeth rather spiny; their shape varies very much, but generally
they are lance-shaped, concave, often waved at the edges, and otherwise contorted. The foliage
is more thickly furnished at the upper part of the plant, it has a glaucous hue, is of good
substance, smooth and shining, like many of the gentians. It will, therefore, be seen that
this is far from a weedy-looking subject, and throughout the season has a tidy and shrub-like
appearance, but it grows top-heavy, and, unless supported, is liable to be snapped off at the
ground line by high winds.

In order to get it to bloom before the frosts cut it, the soil and situation should be carefully
selected; the former cannot be too sandy if enriched with manure, whilst cold, stiff soil is
quite unsuited to it. The position should not only have the sunniest possible aspect, but be
at the base of a wall that will ward off the more cutting winds. In such snug quarters many
things may be had in bloom earlier, and others kept in flower through the winter, as violets;
whilst fuchsias, crinums, African and Belladonna lilies, and similar roots, that would perish
in more exposed parts, will live from year to year in such situations. Unless the subject now
under consideration can have these conditions, it is useless to plant it--not that its hardiness
is doubtful, but because its blooming period should be hastened. Its propagation may be by
division of the roots after it has flowered, or in spring.

Flowering period, October to December.

Symphytum Caucasicum.

CAUCASIAN COMFREY; Nat. Ord. BORAGINACEÆ.

A comparatively modern species in English gardens, belonging to a genus well represented by
native species, from which this differs mainly in being less tall and hairy, and otherwise
less coarse. The erect habit, and abundant azure flowers produced in pendent form, which, moreover,
last for several weeks, go to make this a capital border plant. If not an old species, from
its resemblance to some which are so, it is rendered a suitable companion to "old-fashioned"
subjects. The plant grows to a height of nearly 2ft., is of dark greyish-green colour, from
being thickly covered with short, stiff hairs, on every part, including the calyx.

The flowers are more than ½in. long, produced in elongated clusters, opening three or four
at a time, and just before expansion they are of a bright rose colour, but afterwards turn
a fine blue; calyx five-parted, as also is the corolla, the segments being drawn in at the
mouth. The entire flower is long and bell-shaped; the pendent clusters of bloom are well held
out from the main stem by leafy branches, each being terminated by two racemes. The leaves
of the root are large and stalked, oval, lance-shaped, and wrinkled; those of the stems are
stalkless, and so attached as to give the stems a winged appearance near their junction.

The plant will thrive in any kind of soil, but it likes shade and moisture, and a specimen
grown under such conditions will be found to be much superior in every way. A position under
fruit trees suits it admirably, and for such thoughtful planting it will well repay the lover
of flowers for vase decoration. It also makes a good subject for large or rough rockwork, on
which, however, it should be sheltered from the mid-day sun. Its propagation may be carried
out at any time by dividing the roots, but autumn is the preferable period.

Flowering period, April to June.

Tiarella Cordifolia.

Nat. Ord. SAXIFRAGACEÆ.

The illustration (Fig. 102), together with the order given to which it belongs, will convey
a fair idea of the style and habit of the plant, but its exquisite flowers must be seen to
be appreciated, and hardly could they appear to more advantage than in a growing state, the
rich foliage forming their most natural and effective ground. This hardy herbaceous perennial
has been known to English gardens for 150 years, and was introduced from North America, where
it grows in glorious masses, but common as it is in its native country, and long as it has
been grown in this, I scarcely know a flower respecting which so many have been in error as
regards the true species. I have had all sorts of things sent to me under the name, and, after
all, it is easy to be wrong with it unless the amateur has either closely noted its distinctions
or grown it for a year at least. Heucheras are similar in habit and shape of foliage, and are
often confounded with it, though otherwise very distinct. Tellima grandiflora, when in its
young state, is very like it, but the strong crowns should be noted--they are twice the strength
of T. cordifolia, and develop foliage more than double its size, whilst the flowers are on
stems 3ft. high, nearly green, and might easily be taken for seed pods.

The Mitellas, however, are much more puzzling, the distinctions being finer and mostly of a
botanical character. Still, in May and June, when all are in flower, the identification of
our subject is not difficult, more especially if the other species of the same order are near
for comparison.

T. cordifolia grows to the height of 9in. to 12in.; the flowers are composed of a calyx (five-parted)
and five petals, which are entire, evenly set in the calyx. The ten stamens are prominent;
each flower has a stout pedicel, which holds out the pretty white blossom in a nearly horizontal
way. There is nothing of a bell-shape character about the flower, as in its nearest relative
the Mitella. The flower stem is erect and round, being evenly furnished with flowers, for a
length of 4in. to 6in.; the flowers are very lasting. The leaves are heart-shaped, acutely
lobed, denticulate, slightly wrinkled, hairy on both sides, and more or less spotted or splashed
with brown spots on the main ribs; the leaf stalks are long, and carry the foliage gracefully.
The whole plant has a neat habit, and, when in vigorous health, sends out surface creepers.

It enjoys moist quarters and slight shade, though it is grown as seen in the drawing in an
exposed part. The soil is good, but otherwise there is nothing special about its culture. If
this little spring flower can be made more known, it will be sure to be more widely cultivated;
for covering the bare parts of lawn shrubberies it would form a pleasing subject, and might
be mixed with the scarlet ourisia and the finer sorts of myosotis; these would make an excellent
blend, all flowering together, and lasting for a long time, besides being suitable otherwise
for such shady positions. When increase is desired strong plants may be divided at any time,
soon after flowering being the best; if the season be dry, the young stock should be shaded
by a leafy branch and kept well watered.

Flowering period, May and June.

Trientalis Europæa.

EUROPEAN WINTERGREEN, or STAR-FLOWER; Nat. Ord. PRIMULACEÆ.

Some may say, "Why, this is a common British plant;" and so it is in some parts, but for all
that there are many who have never seen it. In no way does the mention here of this lovely
little flower need an apology: the best possible reasons for growing and recommending it are
in the facts that it is very beautiful and greatly admired (see Fig. 103).

The flowers, which are ¾in. across, are salver-shaped, pure white, excepting for a day or two
when newly opened, then they are stained with a soft pink; the calyx has eight handsome light
green, shining, awl-shaped sepals; the corolla has five to nine petals, equal in size, flatly
and evenly arranged, their pointed tips forming the star-like appearance from which the flower
takes one of its common names; the flower stalks are exceedingly fine--thready--but firm, from
1in. to 3in. long, and each carries but one flower; they issue from the axils of the leaves,
which are arranged in whorls of five or seven, and nearly as many blossoms will be produced
from the whorl, but seldom more than one, and hardly ever more than two, flowers will be open
together, when they occupy the central position of the foliage, which gives the plant an elegant
appearance. The leaves are of a pale green colour, sometimes a little bronzed at the tips,
veined, entire, bald, lance-shaped, and, as before hinted, verticillate; they vary much in
size, being from 1in. to 3in. long and ½in. to 1in. broad. The stems are round, reddish, slender,
and naked, with the exception of two or three minute round leaves, borne distantly apart; the
stems, too, like the leaves, vary in length; sometimes they grow 8in., while others equally
floriferous are not above 3in. high; the root is creeping, and somewhat tuberous. A colony
of this plant has the appearance of a miniature group of palms, bedecked with glistening stars
at the flowering time, and it is one of the most durable flowers I know; so persistent, indeed,
are they, that botanical descriptions make mention of it.

In a cut state they equal either violets or snowdrops, from the beautiful combination of flowers
and foliage, and it is a pity that it is not grown in sufficient quantities for cutting purposes.
Its culture is very easy, but to do it well it may be said to require special treatment; in
its wild state it runs freely, and the specimens are not nearly so fine as they may be had
under cultivation with proper treatment. It should have moist quarters, a little shade, light
vegetable soil, and confinement at the roots. I ought, perhaps, to explain the last-mentioned
condition. It would appear that if the quick-spreading roots are allowed to ramble, the top
growths are not only straggling, but weak and unfruitful. To confine its roots, therefore,
not only causes it to grow in compact groups, but in every way improves its appearance; it
may be done by planting it in a large seed pan, 15in. across, and 4in. or 6in. deep. Let it
be well drained; over the drainage place a layer of lumpy peat, on which arrange another of
roots, and fill up with leaf soil and peat mixed with sand; this may be done any time from
September to February; the pan may then be plunged in a suitable position, so as to just cover
the rim from sight, and so do away with artificial appearances; but if it is sunk too deep,
the roots will go over the rim and all the labour will be lost. So charming is this plant when
so grown, that it is worth all the care. A well-known botanist saw such a pan last spring,
and he could hardly believe it to be our native species. Pans at two years old are lovely masses,
and very suitable for taking as grown for table decoration. The outer sides of the pans should
be banked down to the tray with damp moss, which could be pricked in with any soft-coloured
flowers, as dog roses, pinks or forget-me-nots.

I will only add that, unless the root confinement is effected either in the above or some other
way, according to my experience, the plant will never present a creditable appearance as a
cultivated specimen; at the same time, this somewhat troublesome mode of planting it is not
in proportion to the pleasure it will afford and certainly ought not to prevent its introduction
into every garden.

Flowering period, May and June.

Trillium Erectum.

ERECT WOOD-LILY; Nat. Ord. MELANTHACEÆ.

A hardy, tuberous perennial, from North America, whence most, perhaps all, the species of this
genus are imported. The peculiar form of the plants gives rise to the generic name. A flowering
specimen has on one stem three leaves, three sepals, and three petals; the specific name is
in reference to the more erect habit of this species compared with others. Of T. erectum there
are several varieties, having different-coloured flowers; the specimens from which the drawing
(Fig. 104) was taken have rich brown or dark maroon flowers. Little groups have a rather quaint
look, they being very formal, the flowers curiously placed, and of unusual colour. The flowers
are fully 2in. across, or much more, if the petals did not reflex almost their whole length.
The sepals of the calyx are exactly alternate with the petals, and remain erect, giving the
flower a characteristic quality; and, let me add, they are far more pleasing to the eye than
to the sense of smell. The leaves are arranged in threes on the main stem, and that number
constitutes the entire foliage of the plant; they are stalkless, oval, but pointed, entire,
smooth, and of a shining dark green colour. The specimens from which the illustration was made
are 5in. to 6in. high, but their height differs very much with the positions in which they
are grown, shade and moisture inducing taller growths. The roots, which are tuberous, are of
unusual form--soft swollen root-stocks may be more descriptive of them. Trilliums are now in
much favour, and their quiet beauty is likely to create a genuine love for them. Moreover,
the different species are distinct, and if grown in cool, shady quarters, their flowers remain
in good form and colour for a long time. They are seen to most advantage in a subdued light,
as under the shade of rather tall but not too thickly grown trees. They require vegetable soil,
no matter how light it may be, provided it can be maintained in a moist state, the latter condition
being indispensable. Trilliums are capable of taking a good share towards supplying shade-loving
subjects. How finely they would mix with anemones, violets, Paris quadrifolia, hellebores,
and such like flowers! Colonies of these, planted so as to carpet small openings in shrubberies,
would be a clear gain in several ways to our gardens; to many they would be a new feature;
more showy flowers would not have to be given up for such an arrangement, but, on the other
hand, both would be more enjoyed by the contrast. Trilliums increase slowly; propagation may
be carried out by the division of the roots of healthy plants.

Flowering period, May and June.

Triteleia Uniflora.

Sometimes called MILLA UNIFLORA; ONE-FLOWERED TRITELEIA, or SPRING STAR FLOWER; Nat. Ord. LILIACEÆ.

This is a favourite flower, and in some soils increases very fast; it is the commonest species
of the very limited genus to which it belongs; was brought from South America only so recently
as 1836, and it is already extensively grown in this country, and as a trade article is very
cheap indeed, thanks to its intrinsic worth. Though small, its star-like form gives it a lively
and effective appearance in the borders. It is much used by the Americans as a window and greenhouse
plant, notwithstanding that it is a wild flower with them, and its pretty shape and lovely
hues render it eligible for such uses, but on account of the esteem in which is held the odour
of garlic, I should not like to recommend it for such close associations. The flower in shape
is, as the generic name implies, like the Trillium, formed of three, or rather threes; the
divisions are arranged in threes, or triangularly; the two triangles, being crossed, give the
flower a geometrical and star-like effect. The flowers, which are 1in. to 2in. across, are
borne on slender stems, 4in. to 6in. long. They are nearly white, but have various tints, bluish
reflections, with a line of blue in each petal. The leaves resemble those of the snowdrop when
overgrown and turning flabby, and have a somewhat untidy and sprawling habit; they are abundantly
produced from the rather small cocoon-shaped bulbs. On the whole, the plant is very ornamental
when in flower, and the bloom is produced more or less for many weeks; at any rate, it is an
early flower, and if it cannot be used indoors it should be extensively planted amongst border
subjects, than which there are few more hardy or reliable. Propagated by divisions of the crowded
bulbs every other year, during late summer.

T. u. lilacina (the Lilac-coloured Star Flower) is a most handsome variety, having, as implied
by the name, a richly coloured flower. I am indebted to a lady for roots and flowers recently
sent me; so far as I know, it is not yet generally distributed. It is very distinct from the
type in having smaller parts throughout, and a more highly coloured bloom, with the outer surface
of the shining tube of a darker or brownish-green colour. I have seen a mauve coloured form,
but this is much more pronounced and effective. The chief recommendation of this otherwise
desirable flower, to my thinking, is its rich, new-mown hay scent; in this it differs much
from the parent form.

Flowering period, March to May.

Tritoma Uvaria.

GREAT TRITOMA; Common Names, FLAME-FLOWER, RED-HOT POKER; Nat. Ord. LILIACEÆ-HEMERO-CALLIDEÆ.

This is one of our finest late-flowering plants; it has, moreover, a tropical appearance, which
renders it very attractive. It is fast becoming popular, though as yet it is not very often
seen in private gardens; it comes from the Cape of Good Hope, its year of introduction being
1707. In this climate, when planted in well-exposed situations and in sandy loam, it proves
hardy but herbaceous; if protected it is evergreen; and I ought to add that if it is planted
in clay soil, or where the drainage is defective, it will be killed by a severe winter; but
when such simple precautions as are here indicated will conduce to the salvation of a somewhat
doubtful plant, it may be fairly termed hardy. According to my experience during severe winters,
plants in wet stiff loam were all killed, but others of the same stock, in light sandy earth,
did not suffer in the least. I have also made similar observations outside my own garden.

The stout scapes or stems sometimes reach a height of 4ft., and are topped with long or cocoon-shaped
spikes of orange and red flowers; the flowers are tubular and small, closely arranged, and
drooping; each will be about an inch long, and the spikes 6in. to 8in. long. The leaves are
narrow, 2ft. to 3ft. long, keeled, channelled, and rough on the edges, of a dark green colour
and prostrate habit. Either amongst trees or in more conspicuous positions this flower proves
very effective, whilst in lines it is simply dazzling; when grown in quantity it may be cut
for indoor decoration, than which few large flowers are more telling.

Cultural hints have already been given in speaking of its hardiness, but I may add that where
the soil is naturally light and dry a liberal dressing of well-rotted manure may be dug in
with great benefit to the flowers. It is readily propagated by division of the roots every
third year; the young stock should be put in rows, the earth having been deeply stirred and
well broken; this may be done in late autumn or spring--if the former, a top dressing of leaves
will assist root action.

This bold and brilliant flower appears in September, and is produced in numbers more or less
to the end of the year, provided the season does not set in very severe.

Tropæolum Tuberosum.

TUBEROUS TROPÆOLUM; Nat. Ord. TROPÆOLACEÆ.

All the species of this genus are highly decorative garden subjects, including the annual varieties,
and otherwise they are interesting. They are known by various names, as Trophy-plant, Indian
Cress, and Nasturtium, though the latter is only applicable strictly to plants of another order.
The plant under notice is a climber, herbaceous and perennial, having tuberous roots, whence
its specific name; they much resemble small potatoes, and are eaten in Peru, the native country
of the plant. It has not long been grown in this country, the date of its introduction being
1836; it is not often seen, which may be in part owing to the fact of its being considered
tender in this climate. But let me at once state that under favourable conditions, and such
as may easily be afforded in any garden, it proves hardy. As a matter of fact, I wintered it
in 1880-1, and also in 1881-2, which latter does not signify much, as it proved so mild; but
it must be admitted that the first-mentioned winter would be a fair test season. The position
was very dry, viz., on the top of a small bank of earth, against a south wall; the soil was
sandy loam, and it was overgrown with ivy, the leaves of which would doubtless keep out many
degrees of cold, as also would the dryness of the soil; another point in favour of my specimen
proving hardy, would be the fact of its exposure to the sun, by which the tubers would be well
and duly ripened. It is one of the handsomest trailers or climbers I know for the herbaceous
garden; a free grower, very floriferous, bright, distinct, and having a charming habit. The
illustration (Fig. 106) can give no idea of the fine colours of its flowers, or richly glaucous
foliage. One specimen in my garden has been much admired, thanks to nothing but its own habit
and form; under a west wall, sheltered from the strong winds, it grows near some Lilium auratum;
after outgrowing the lengths of the stems, and having set off to advantage the lily bloom,
it caught by its tendril-like shoots an apricot tree on the wall, and then reached the top,
being furnished with bloom its whole length. The flowers are orange and scarlet, inclining
to crimson; they are produced singly on long red stalks, which spring from the axils of the
leaves; the orange petals are small and overlapping, being compactly enclosed in the scarlet
calyx; the spur, which is also of the same colour, is thick and long, imparting a pear-like
form to the whole flower, which, however, is not more than 1½in. long. The leaves are nearly
round in outline, sub-peltate, five, but sometimes only three-lobed; lobes entire, sometimes
notched, smooth and glaucous; the leaf-stalks are long and bent, and act as tendrils. The plant
makes rapid growth, the stems going out in all directions, some trailing on the ground.

It is a good subject for the drier parts of rockwork, where a twiggy branch should be secured,
which it will soon cover. It is also fine for lattice work, or it may be grown where it can
appropriate the dried stems of lupine and larkspurs. For all such situations it is not only
showy, but beautiful. The flowered sprays are effective in a cut state, especially by gaslight;
they come in for drooping or twining purposes, and last a long time in water.

If grown as a tender plant its treatment is as simple as can be; the tubers may be planted
in early spring in any desired situation, and when the frosts at the end of the season have
cut down the foliage, the tubers may be taken up and stored in sand; but if it is intended
to winter it out the situation should be chosen for its dryness, and the soil should be of
a sandy nature, in which the tubers ought to be placed 5in. or 6in. deep. It is self-propagating,
the tubers being numerously produced; and like "potato sets," the larger ones may be cut in
pieces; if, however, numbers are not the object they are better left uncut. Caterpillars are
fond of this plant; at the first sight of an eaten leaf, they should be looked for and destroyed.

It begins to flower in the latter part of summer, continuing until stopped by frosts.

Umbilicus Chrysanthus.

Nat. Ord. CRASSULACEÆ.

This is a very pretty and distinct subject, and never fails to flower very late in the year.
It is a plant having the appearance of being tender, and is not often seen growing fully exposed
in the garden; it is, however, perfectly hardy, enduring any amount of cold; it suffers more
from wet. It is also evergreen. Its soft dull or greyish-green rosettes are in marked contrast
with the rigid and shining sempervivums, in the company of which it is frequently placed. It
is an alpine subject, and comes from the mountains of Asiatic Turkey, being also found more
west. Not only is it interesting, but its pretty form and habit are qualities which render
it very useful in a garden, more especially for dry parts, such as old walls and rockwork.

It grows 6in. high, the older rosettes elongate and form leafy flower stalks, which are topped
by drooping panicles of flowers, somewhat bell shaped; each flower is ¾in. long, of a yellowish
white colour; the petals are finely pointed, and well supported by a fleshy calyx; the bloom
is slowly developed and very enduring, even when the worst weather prevails. The leaves are
arranged in flat rosette form (the rosettes from 1in. to 2in. across), lower leaves spathulate,
those near the centre more oval.

All are fleshy, covered with short hairs, and somewhat clammy to the touch. Its habit is neat,
and it adorns such situations as otherwise suit it, viz., banks or risen beds, and such other
positions as have already been named.

Its culture is easy, but it ought to have the compost it most enjoys--peat and grit--and it
should be sheltered from the strong winds, otherwise its top-heavy flower stalks will be laid
prostrate. When it once finds a happy home it increases fast; the thick stalks are procumbent
and emit roots. These may either be left to form large specimens or be taken off during the
growing season for stock. Excessive wet is its greatest enemy. For such subjects, the wire
and glass shelters are not only a remedy, but very handy.

Flowering period, summer, until stopped by frosts.

Vaccinium Vitis-Idæa.

RED WHORTLE-BERRY; sometimes called COW-BERRY; Nat. Ord. VACCINACEÆ.

Although a native evergreen, and in some parts occurring extensively, it proves to be both
decorative and useful as a garden subject; as a neat evergreen it is worthy of a place, especially
when it is not to be found near in a wild state. It is seldom seen without either its waxy
and pink-tinted white flowers or its bright clusters of red berries, but in October it carries
both, which, together with the fine condition of the foliage, renders the shrub most attractive.
It grows 6in. to 9in. high under cultivation.

In form the flowers somewhat resemble the lily of the valley, but they are closely set in the
stems and partly hidden, owing to the shortness and drooping character of the racemes; not
only are the flowers pleasingly tinted, but they exhale a full and spicy odour; the buds, too,
are tinted with a lively pink colour on their sunny sides. The berries are quickly developed,
being nearly the size of the holly berry, but a more bright red. The leaves are stout, shining,
and leathery, and ofttimes pleasingly bronzed. They are over ½in. long and egg-shaped, being
bent backwards. The stems are furnished with short hairs, are much branched, and densely foliaged.
This compact-growing shrub would make a capital edging, provided it was well grown in vegetable
soil. It would go well with Erica carnea to form a double line, either to a shrubbery or permanent
beds of dwarf flowering trees. Now that berries are so much used for wearing about the person
and for indoor decoration, those of this shrub may become useful. A dishful of sprigs in October
proves pleasant both to the sight and smell, the flowers and fruit being charmingly blended.

V. v.-i. major is a variety which is simply larger in all its parts; it is, however, rather
more bronzed in the foliage. I daresay by many it would be preferred to the typical form, both
for its robust and decorative qualities. It is nearly twice the size of the type.

As may be inferred, both from the order to which this shrub belongs and the localities where
it occurs in its wild state, a peaty or vegetable soil will be required. I find the species
grow most freely in a mixture of leaf soil and sand, the position being moist but exposed.
It does not object to a little shade, but then its useful berries are neither so numerously
produced nor so well coloured.

It is easily propagated by division at almost any time.

Flowering period, May to October.

Veronica Gentianoides.

Syn. V. GENTIANIFOLIA; GENTIAN-LEAVED SPEEDWELL; Nat. Ord. SCROPHULARIACEÆ.

This is a distinct and pleasing species, viewed as a garden plant. It is very hardy, and one
of the herbaceous kinds; it has been grown in English gardens nearly 150 years, and came originally
from the Levant. It is pretty widely used, but it deserves a place in every garden; not only
are its tall spikes of flowers effective during their season, but the foliage, compared with
other Veronicas, is of a bright and plump character. The newly-formed tufts, which are somewhat
rosette-shaped, have a fresh appearance throughout the winter, it being one of the few herbaceous
subjects in which the signs of life are so visible in this climate.

The flowers are small-½in. in diameter--numerously produced on spikes 18in. high. They are
blue, striped with light and dark shades; both calyx and corolla, as common to the genus, are
four-parted, petals of uneven size. The flower spikes are finely developed, the flowers and
buds occupying 12in. of their length, and tapering off to a point which bends gracefully. The
buds are not less pretty than the flowers, resembling as they do turquoise in a deep setting
of the calyx. The leaves are smooth, shining, and of much substance, 3in. to 6in. long, and
1in. to 2in. broad, lance-shaped, serrated, and sheathing. They are of a somewhat clustered
arrangement close to the ground. Good pieces of this plant, 1ft. to 2ft. across, are very effective,
and flower for a good while.

The rich and graceful spikes are of great value for vase decoration, one or two sufficing in
connection with other suitable flowers.

There is a lovely variety of this species called V. g. variegata; in shape and habit it resembles
the type though scarcely as vigorous, but not at all "miffy." The leaves are richly coloured
pale green, white, and pink; and the flowers, as seldom occurs in variegated forms, are larger
and more handsome than in the parent; in all respects, it is as useful, and, for forming an
edging, perhaps more suitable than the common form.

Both kinds like a good fat loam and a moist situation; they may be grown either in borders
or on rockwork, but specimens on the latter compare poorly with those grown otherwise; either
they are too dry, or the soil gets washed from them, so that the new roots, which strike down
from the surface-creeping stems, do not find the needful nourishment. Their increase is easily
effected by division of the rooted stems any time after they have done flowering. If the season
is droughty, they should be well watered.

Flowering period, May to July.

Veronica Pinguifolia.

FAT-LEAVED SPEEDWELL; Nat. Ord. SCROPHULARIACEÆ.

This is a rather uncommon species, being of the shrubby section, but unlike many of its relative
kinds, it is perfectly hardy, also evergreen and very dwarf; a specimen three or four years
old is but a diminutive bush, 18in. through and 8in. high. The habit is dense, the main or
old branches are prostrate, the younger wood being erect and full of very short side shoots.

The flowers are produced on the new wood; the chubby flower-spikes issue from the axils of
the leaves near the leading shoot; in some cases there are three, in others four, but more
often two. Each flower spike has a short, stout, round stem, nearly an inch long, and the part
furnished with buds is nearly as long again. At this stage (just before they begin to open)
the buds are rice-shaped, snow white, waxy, and arranged cone form. They are, moreover, charmingly
intersected with the pale green sepals in their undeveloped stage. The little bunches of buds
are simply exquisite. The flowers are small, pure white, waxy, and twisted in the petals. The
two filaments are longer than the petals, having rather large anthers, which are bright purple.
This pleasing feature, together with the young shoots in the midst of the blossoms, which have
small stout glaucous leaves tipped with yellow--nearly golden--give the clusters a bouquet-like
appearance. The leaves are small--little more than half an inch long--and ovate, slightly cupped,
stem-clasping, and opposite. They are a pale glaucous hue, and closely grown on the stems;
they greatly add to the rich effect of the flowers.

This shrub is a most fitting subject for rockwork, and it would also make an edging of rare
beauty, which, if well grown, no one could but admire. It seems to enjoy loam and leaf soil
in a moist but sunny situation. It may be propagated by cuttings, taken with a part of the
previous year's wood.

Flowering period, May to July.

Veronica Prostrata.

PROSTRATE SPEEDWELL; Nat. Ord. SCROPHULARIACEÆ.

This is sometimes confounded with V. repens, I presume from the slight distinction in the specific
names, but so different are the two species that no one who has seen them can possibly take
one for the other. V. repens is herb-like; it creeps and roots, and has nearly white flowers
in April; but V. prostrata is a deciduous trailer, and the more common and best form has fine
gentian-blue flowers; it is a capital rock plant, being most effective when hanging over the
face of large stones. The flowers are small, and produced in rather long sprays, which are
numerous, so that little else than flowers can be seen for two or three weeks.

It will grow and flower freely in any soil, but the aspect should be sunny; it is easily increased
by division or rootlets. I may add that the very long stems of this prostrate plant (when in
bloom) are well adapted for indoor decoration. Where pendent, deep blue flowers are needed,
there are very few good blues so suitable.

Flowering period, May to July.

Vesicaria Græca.

Nat. Ord. CRUCIFERÆ.

This beautiful, diminutive, hardy evergreen shrub comes to us from Switzerland, being an alpine
species (see Fig. 109).

When in flower it does not exceed the height of 6in. or 8in., at which time it is very showy,
covered, as it is, with flowers of the brightest golden yellow, surpassing the golden alyssum,
which in some respects it resembles, being half woody, possessing greyish leaves, and dense
heads of flowers, which, however, are arranged in small corymbs, and being also much larger.
The leaves of the flower stalks resemble lavender leaves in general appearance; those of the
unproductive stems are larger, and arranged sparingly in rigid rosette form, such unproductive
stems being few.

The neat and erect habit of the plant renders it most suitable for rockwork or edgings, and
otherwise, from its long continued flowering, which will exceed a month in moderate weather,
it is one of the most useful spring flowers; whilst, for cutting purposes, it cannot but rank
with the more choice, as, combined with extra brightness of colour, it exhales a rich hawthorn
perfume. To all who have a garden, big or little, I would say, grow this sweet little shrub.
It has never failed to do well with me in any situation that was fully exposed; it flowers
freely in a light dry bed, but on rockwork it is most at home. The quickest way to prepare
plants of flowering strength is to divide strong pieces; but this interferes with the larger
specimens, which are by far the best forms in which to grow and retain it. Another mode is
to cut off all the flowers nearly down to the old wood; side shoots will thus be induced to
grow earlier than otherwise, so that in late summer they may be taken off as slips, and there
will still be plenty of time to strike them like wallflower slips, and get plenty of roots
to them before the cold weather sets in. The plant also produces seed freely in its inflated
pods, which affords another, but more tedious, way of increasing it.

Flowering period, April to June.

Viola Pedata.

PEDATE-LEAVED or BIRD'S-FOOT VIOLET; Nat. Ord. VIOLACEÆ.

Over a hundred years ago this hardy herbaceous violet was introduced from North America; still,
it is not largely grown, though it is now becoming quite a favourite. As may be seen by the
illustration (Fig. 110), it is distinct in general appearance, more especially in the foliage,
which in its young state is bird-foot-shaped, whence the appropriateness of its specific name;
it should perhaps be explained that the leaves are very small compared with the flowers when
the plant first begins to bloom, but later they increase very much in size. There are several
characteristics about this species which render it desirable, and no choice collection should
be without either this (the typical form) or some of its varieties. Deep cut, shining, dark
green foliage, very bright blue flowers, and pleasing habit are its most prominent features;
its blooming period is prolonged, and it has a robust constitution, which further commends
it to lovers of choice flowers, and if once planted in proper quarters it gives no further
trouble in the way of treatment.

The flowers are nearly an inch across, bright purple-blue, produced on stalks of varying lengths,
but mostly long; the leaves are many parted, segments long, narrow and lance-shaped, some being
cut or toothed near the tips; the crown of the root is rather bulky; the roots are long and fleshy.

The following are varieties; all are handsome and worth growing: V. p. alba, new; flowers white,
not so robust as the type. V. p. bicolor, new; flowers two colours. V. p. flabellata (syn.
V. digitata); flowers light purple. V. p. ranunculifolia (syn. V. ranunculifolia); flowers
nearly white.

As this plant requires a moist and partially shaded situation, it is not eligible for doing
duty indiscriminately in any part of the garden; still, it will thrive under any conditions
such as the well-known violets are seen to encounter. On the north or west side of rockwork,
in dips or moist parts, it will be found to do well and prove attractive.

The propagation of all the kinds may be carried out by allowing the seed to scatter itself,
and, before the winter sets in, a light top-dressing of half rotted leaves and sand will not
only be a natural way of protecting it until germination takes place, but will also be of much
benefit to the parent plants. Another mode of increase is to divide the roots of strong and
healthy specimens; in this way only can true kinds be obtained; seedlings are almost certain
to be crossed.

Flowering period, May and June.

Viola Tricolor.

THREE-COLOURED VIOLET, PANSY, or HEARTSEASE; Nat. Ord. VIOLACEÆ.

This well known herbaceous perennial is a British species. It has long been grown in gardens,
where, by selection and crossing, innumerable and beautiful kinds have been produced, so that
at the present time it is not only a "florist's flower," but a general favourite. Besides the
above-mentioned common names, it has many others, and it may not be uninteresting to repeat
them--"Love in Idleness," "Call me to you," "Kiss me ere I rise," "Herb Trinity," and "Three
Faces under one Hood." Although this plant is herbaceous, the old stems remain green until
the new growths come into flower, and, in many varieties, by a little management in plucking
out the buds during summer, flowers may be had in the autumn and well into winter. If, also,
from other plants early cuttings have been taken, and become well rooted, they will produce
large flowers very early in spring, and so the Pansy may be had in flower nearly the year round.
Any description of this well-known plant would be superfluous to an English reader.

The wild V. tricolor is, however, a very different plant and flower to its numerous offspring,
such as the illustration (Fig. 111) depicts, and in which there is ever a tendency to "go back."
It is only by constant care and high cultivation that the Pansy is kept at such a high standard
of excellence, and one may add that such labour is well repaid by the results. With no flower
more than the Pansy does all depend on the propagation and culture. Not the least reliance
can be placed on seeds for producing flowers like those of the parent. Cuttings or root divisions
should be made in summer, so as to have them strong, to withstand the winter. They enjoy a
stiffish loam, well enriched. And in spring they may be lifted with a ball and transplanted
into beds, borders, lines, or irregular masses, where they are equally effective, and no flower
is more reliable for a profusion of bloom.

Yucca Filamentosa.

THREADY-LEAVED YUCCA; Nat. Ord. LILIACEÆ.

This is of a more deciduous nature than Y. gloriosa, reclothing itself each spring more amply
with foliage. In December, however, it is in fine form, and though it is a better flowering
species than most of its genus, and to a fair extent valuable for its flowers, it will be more
esteemed, perhaps, as a shrub of ornamental foliage. It came from Virginia in the year 1675.

The flowers are pretty, greenish-white, bell-shaped, and drooping: they are arranged in panicles,
which, when sent up from strong plants, are, from their size, very attractive; but otherwise
they are hardly up to the mark as flowers. The leaves in form are lance-shaped, concave, reflexed
near the ends, and sharp-pointed. The colour is a yellowish-green, the edges are brown, and
their substance is split up into curled filaments, which are sometimes 9in. or more long, and
are blown about by every breeze. From these thready parts the species takes its name. It is
seldom that this kind grows more than 4ft. high, but a greater number of offsets are produced
from this than from any other of our cultivated Yuccas.

I know no better use for this kind than planting it on the knolly parts of rockwork, positions
which in every way suit it, for it enjoys a warm, dry soil.

Y. f. variegata, as its name implies, is a form with coloured foliage. In the north it proves
to be far from hardy, and therefore cannot be recommended for culture in the open garden. My
reasons for mentioning it are that it is convenient to do so when the typical form is under
notice, and that it is frequently spoken of as hardy. Subjects needing well selected positions,
protection, and a mild winter in order to keep them alive from autumn to spring, can in no
sense be considered hardy, even though they may be planted out of doors.

Flowering period, August to October.

Yucca Gloriosa.

GLORIOUS YUCCA, ADAM'S NEEDLE; Nat. Ord. LILIACEÆ.

A hardy evergreen shrub which has long been grown in England, but for all that is not often
met with in private gardens. It is a native of South America, and was brought to our shores
in 1596. The genus is remarkable for not flowering constantly in our climate, and also for
slow growth; fortunately, both these drawbacks, if one may term them such, are counter-balanced
by the handsome foliage of the various species, mostly of an evergreen and very durable nature,
and also by the bold and symmetrical arrangement of the same. This Yucca flowers in the autumn,
but it may be considered more especially a foliage subject, as the bloom is insignificant compared
with the leaves and is not produced more than once in four years as a rule. The leaves assume
their richest hues and become thoroughly matured about the end of the year; and when the ground
is covered with a thick coat of snow, their rigid forms are amongst the very few of any note
that can be seen. In any garden, no matter how large or how small, a Yucca imparts a style
or character to it which scarcely any other subject can give. It may not be so easy to explain
this, but the fact is recognised by the most casual observer at first sight. If I say the effect
is tropical, noble, rich, and sometimes graceful, a partial idea of its ornamental qualities
may be conveyed; but to know its value and enjoy it, it should be grown. The species under
consideration has many forms, some differing rather widely from the type, so much so that these
varieties are honoured with specific names. First may be given a brief description of the parent
form.

It grows from 3ft. to 6ft. high, according to the more or less favourable conditions. These
dimensions apply to blooming specimens; but shrubs, three to six years old, if they have never
bloomed, may not exceed 1ft. to 2ft. in height, and about the same in diameter. The flowers,
as may be gathered from the order to which the genus belongs, are lily-like, or bell-shaped;
they are of a greenish white colour, arranged in lax clusters on stoutish stalks. The leaves
are 12in. to 2ft. long, 3in. or more broad in their widest parts, concave or boat-shaped, sharp
pointed, glaucous, sometimes slightly plicate, rigid, and leathery.

The habit, after flowering, is generally to form offsets, when the plant loses much of its
former boldness and effect. From the lateness of its blooming period, and a lack of suitable
conditions, it does not ripen seed in our climate, and it must of necessity be raised from
seed ripened in more favourable climes.

The following are said to be some of its varieties, bearing useful descriptive names: Y. g.
pendula, having a pendulous habit or reflexed leaves; Y. g. plicata, having plaited leaves;
Y. g. minor, a lesser form in its various parts. There are other reputed varieties of more
doubtful descent.

For cultivation see Y. recurva.

Yucca Recurva.

RECURVE-LEAVED YUCCA; Common Name, WEEPING YUCCA; Nat. Ord. LILIACEÆ.

This is a charming species, perfectly hardy and evergreen; it was brought from Georgia about
ninety years ago.

