We may compare human progress to a tall tree which has reared itself, slowly and imperceptibly,
through century after century, hardly more than a bare trunk, with here and there only the
slight outshoot of some temporary exploit of genius, but which in this age gives the signs
of that immense foliage and fruitage which shall in time embower the whole earth. We see but
its spring-time of leaf,--for it is only within fifty years that this rich outburst of wonders
began. We live in an era when progress is so new as to be a matter of amazement. A hundred
years hence, perhaps it will have become so much a matter of course to develop, to expand,
and to discover, that it will excite no comment. But it is yet novel, and we are yet fresh.
Therefore we may gaze back at what has been, and gaze forward at what is promised to be, with
more likelihood of being impressed than if we were a few centuries older.

If we look down at the roots out of which this tree has risen, and then up at its spreading
branches,--omitting its intermediate trunk of ages, through which its processes have been secretly
working,--perhaps we may realize in a briefer space the wonder of it all.

In the beginning of history, according to received authority, there was but a little tract
of the earth occupied, and that by one family, speaking but one tongue, and worshipping but
one God,--all the rest of the world being an uninhabited wild. At this stage of history the
whole globe is explored, covered with races of every color, a host of nations and languages,
with every diversity of custom, development of character, and form of religion. The physical
bound from that to this is equalled only by the leap which the world of mind has made.

Once upon a time a man hollowed a tree, and, launching it upon the water, found that it would
bear him up. After this a few little floats, creeping cautiously near the land, were all on
which men were wont to venture. Now there are sails fluttering on every sea, prodigious steamers
throbbing like leviathans against wind and wave; harbors are built, and rocks and shoals removed;
lighthouses gleam nightly from ten thousand stations on the shore; the great deep itself is
sounded by plummet and diving-bell; the submarine world is disclosed; and man is gathering
into his hands the laws of the very winds that toss its surface.

Once the earth had a single rude, mud-built hamlet, in which human dwellings were first clustered
together. Now it is studded with splendid cities, strewn thick with towns and villages, diversified
by infinite varieties of architecture: sumptuous buildings, unlike in every clime, each as
if sprung from its own soil and made out of its air.

Once there were only the elementary discoveries of the lever, the wedge, the bended bow, the
wheel; Tubal worked in iron and copper, and Naamah twisted threads. Since then what a jump
the mechanical arts have made! These primitive elements are now so intricately combined that
we can hardly recognize them; new forces have been added, new principles evolved; ponderous
engines, like moving mountains of iron, shake the very earth; many-windowed factories, filled
with complex machinery driven by water or its vapor, clatter night and day, weaving the plain
garments of the poor man and the rich robes of the prince, the curtains of the cottage and
the upholstery of the palace.

Once there were but the spear and bow and shield, and hand-to-hand conflicts of brute strength.
See now the whole enginery of war, the art of fortification, the terrific perfection of artillery,
the mathematical transfer of all from the body to the mind, till the battlefield is but a chess-board,
and the battle is really waged in the brains of the generals. How astonishing was that last
European field of Solferino, ten miles in sweep,--with the balloon floating above it for its
spy and scout,--with the thread-like wire trailing in the grass, and the lightning coursing
back and forth, Napoleon's ubiquitous aide-de-camp,--with railway-trains, bringing reinforcements
into the midst of the melée, and their steam-whistle shrieking amid the thunders of battle!
And what a picture of even greater magnificence, in some respects, is before us to-day! A field
not of ten, but ten thousand miles in sweep! McClellan, standing on the eminence of present
scientific achievement, is able to overlook half the breadth of a continent, and the widely
scattered detachments of a host of six hundred thousand men. The rail connects city with city;
the wire hangs between camp and camp, and reaches from army to army. Steam is hurling his legions
from one point to another; electricity brings him intelligence, and carries his orders; the
aëronaut in the sky is his field-glass searching the horizon. It is practically but one great
battle that is raging beneath him, on the Potomac, in the mountains of Virginia, down the valley
of the Mississippi, in the interiors of Kentucky and Tennessee, along the seaboard, and on
the Gulf coast. The combatants are hidden from each other, but under the chieftain's eye the
dozen armies are only the squadrons of a single host, their battles only the separate conflicts
of a single field, the movements of the whole campaign only the evolutions of a prolonged engagement.
The spectacle is a good illustration of the day. Under the magic of progress, war in its essence
and vitality is really diminishing, even while increasing in materiel and grandeur. Neither
time nor space will permit the old and tedious contests of history to be repeated. Military
science has entered upon a new era, nearer than ever to the period when wars shall cease.

But to go on with a few more contrasts of the past with the present. Once men wrote only in
symbols, like wedges and arrow-heads, on tiles and bricks, or in hieroglyphic pictures on obelisks
and sepulchres,--afterward in crude, but current characters on stone, metal, wax, and papyrus.
In a much later age appeared the farthest perfection of the invention: books engrossed on illuminated
rolls of vellum, and wound on cylinders of boxwood, ivory, or gold,--and then put away like
richest treasures of art. What a difference between perfection then and progress now! To-day
the steam printing-press throws out its sheets in clouds, and fills the world with books. Vast
libraries are the vaulted catacombs of modern times, in which the dead past is laid away, and
the living present takes refuge. The glory of costly scrolls is dimmed by the illustrated and
typographical wonders which make the bookstore a gorgeous dream. Knowledge, no longer rare,
no longer lies in precarious accumulations within the cells of some poor monk's crumbling brain,
but swells up like the ocean, universal and imperishable, pouring into the vacant recesses
of all minds as the ocean pours into the hollows under its shore. To-day, newspapers multiplied
by millions whiten the whole country every morning, like the hoar-frost; and books, numerous
and brilliant as the stars, seem by a sort of astral influence to unseal the latent destinies
of many an intellect, as by their illumination they stimulate thought and activity everywhere.

Once art seemed to have reached perfection in the pictures and sculptures of Greece and Rome.
Yet now those master-pieces are not only equalled on canvas and in fresco, but reproduced by
tens of thousands from graven sheets of copper, steel, and even blocks of wood,--or, if modelled
in marble or bronze, are remodelled by hundreds, and set up in countless households as the
household gods. It is the glory of to-day that the sun himself has come down to be the rival
and teacher of artists, to work wonders and perform miracles in art. He is the celestial limner
who shall preserve the authentic faces of every generation from now until the world is no more.
He holds the mirror up to Nature, paralyzes the fleeting phantom, by chemical subtilty, on
the burnished plate,--and there it is fixed forever. He prepares the optical illusion of the
stereoscope, so that through tiny windows we may look as into fairy-land and find sections
of this magnificent world modelled in miniature.

Once men imagined the earth to be a flat and limited tract. Now they realize that it is a ponderous
ball floating in infinite ether. Once they thought the sky was a solid blue concave, studded
with blazing points, an empire of fate, the gold-and-azure floor of the abode of gods and spirits.
Now all that is dissolved away; the wandering planets become at will broad disks, like sisters
of the moon; and countless millions of stars are now mirrored in the same retina with which
the Magi saw the few thousands of the firmament that were visible from the plains of Chaldea.

Once men were aware of nothing in the earth beneath its hills and valleys and teeming soil.
Now they walk consciously over the ruins of old worlds; they can decipher the strange characters
and read the strange history graven on these gigantic tablets. The stony veil is rent, and
they can look inimitable periods back, and see the curious animals which then moved up and
down in the earth.

Once a glass bubble was a wonder for magnifying power. Now the lenses of the microscope bring
an inverted universe to light. Men can look into a drop and discover an ocean crowded with
millions of living creatures, monsters untypified in the visible world, playing about as in
a great deep.

Once a Roman emperor prized a mysterious jewel because it brought the gladiators contending
in the arena closer to the imperial canopy. Now observatories, with their revolving domes,
crown the heights at every centre of civilization, and the mighty telescope, poised on exquisite
mechanism, turns infinite space into a Coliseum, brings its invisible luminaries close to the
astronomer's seat, and reveals the harmonies and splendors of those distant works of God.

Once the supposed elements were fire, and water, and earth, and air; once the amber was unique
in its peculiar property, and the loadstone in its singular power. Now chemistry holds in solution
the elements and secrets of creation; now electricity would seem to be the veil which hangs
before the soul; now the magnetic needle, true to the loadstar, trembles on the sea, to make
the mariner brave and the haven sure.

We have by no means exhausted the wonders that have accumulated upon man, in being accumulated
by man. Their enumeration would be almost endless. But we leave all to mention one, with which
there is nothing of old time to compare. It had no beginning then,--not even a germ. It is
the peculiar leap and development of the age in which we live. Many things have combined to
bring it to pass.

A spirit that had been hid, since the world began, in a coffer of metal and acid,--the genie
of the lightning,--shut down, as by the seal of Solomon in the Arabian tale, was let loose
but the other day, and commenced to do the bidding of man. Every one found that he could transport
his thought to the ends of the earth in the twinkling of an eye. That spirit, with its electric
wings, soon flew from city to city, and whithersoever the magnetic wire could be traced through
the air, till the nations of all Europe stood as face to face, and the States of this great
Union gazed one upon another. It made a continent like a household,--a cluster of peoples like
members of a family,--each within hearing of the other's voice.

But one achievement remained to be performed before the whole world could become one. The ocean
had hitherto hopelessly severed the globe into two hemispheres. Could man make it a single
sphere? Could man, like Moses, smite the waves with his electric rod, and lead the legions
of human thought across dry shod? He could,--and he did. We all remember it well. A range of
submarine mountains was discovered, stretching from America to Europe. Their top formed a plateau,
which, lying within two miles of the surface, offered an undulating shoal within human reach.
A fleet of steamers, wary of storms, one day cautiously assembled midway over it. They caught
the monster asleep, safely uncoiled the wire, and laid it from shore to shore. The treacherous,
dreadful, omnipotent ocean was conquered and bound!

How the heart of the two worlds leaped when the news came! Then, more than at any time before,
were most of us startled into a conviction of how real progress was,--how tremendous, and limitless,
apparently, the power which God had put into man. Not that this, in itself, was greater than
that which had preceded it, but it was the climax of all. The mechanical feat awoke more enthusiasm
than even the scientific achievement which was its living soul,--not because it was more wonderful,
but because it dispelled our last doubt. We all began to form a more definite idea of something
great to come, that was yet lying stored away in the brain,--laid there from the beginning.
Like the Magian on the heights of Moab, as he saw the tents of Israel and the tabernacle of
God in the distance, we grew big with an involuntary vision, and were surprised into prophecies.

It was wonderful to see the Queen of England, on one side of that chasm of three thousand miles,
wave a greeting to the President, and the President wave back a greeting to the Queen.

Soon, however, came a check to the excitement. For above a score of days was that mysterious
highway kept open from Valentia to Trinity Bay. But then the spell was lost, the waves flowed
back, old ocean rolled on as before, and the crossing messages perished, like the hosts of
Pharaoh in the sea.

That the miracle is ended is no indication that it cannot be repeated. For the very reason
that the now dead, inarticulate wire, like an infant, lisped and stammered once, it is certain
that another will soon be born, which will live to trumpet forth like the angel of civilization,
its minister of flaming fire! No one should abate a jot from the high hope excited then. No
imagination should suffer a cloud on the picture it then painted. Governments and capitalists
have not been idle, and will not be discouraged. Already Europe and Africa are connected by
an electric tunnel under the sea, five hundred miles in length; already Malta and Alexandria
speak to each other through a tube lying under thirteen hundred miles of Mediterranean waters;
already Britain bound to Holland and Hanover and Denmark by a triple cord of sympathy which
all the tempests of the German Ocean cannot sever. And if we come nearer home, we shall find
a project matured which will carry a fiery cordon around the entire coast of our country, linking
fortress to fortress, and providing that last, desperate resource of unity, an outer girdle
and jointed chain of force, to bind together and save a nation whose inner bonds of peace and
love are broken.

Such energy and such success are enough to revive the expectation and to guaranty the coming
of the day when we shall behold the electric light playing round the world unquenched by the
seas, illuminating the land, revealing nation to nation, and mingling language with language,
as if the "cloven tongues like as of fire" had appeared again, and "sat upon each of them."

It will be a strange period, and yet we shall see it. The word spoken here under the sun of
mid-day, when it speaks at the antipodes, will be heard under the stars of midnight. Of the
world of commerce it may be written, "There shall be no night there!" and of the ancient clock
of the sun and stars, "There shall be time no longer!"

When the electric wire shall stretch from Pekin, by successive India stations, to London, and
from India, by leaps from island to island, to Australia, and from New York westward to San
Francisco, (as has been already accomplished,) and southward to Cape Horn, and across the Atlantic,
or over the Strait to St. Petersburg,--when the endless circle is formed, and the magic net-work
binds continent, and city, and village, and the isles of the sea, in one,--then who will know
the world we live in, for the change that shall come upon it?

Time no more! Space no more! Mankind brought into one vast neighborhood!

Prophesy the greater union of all hearts in this interblending of all minds. Prophesy the boundless
spread of civilization, when all barriers are swept away. Prophesy the catholicity of that
religion in which as many phases of a common faith shall be endured as there are climes for
the common human constitution and countries in a common world!

In those days men will carry a watch, not with a single face, as now, telling only the time
of their own region, but a dial-plate subdivided into the disks of a dozen timepieces, announcing
at a glance the hour of as many meridian stations on the globe. It will be the fair type of
the man who wears it. When human skill shall find itself under this necessity, and mechanism
shall reach this perfection, then the soul of that man will become also many-disked. He will
be alive with the perpetual consciousness of many zeniths and horizons beside his own, of many
nations far different from his own, of many customs, manners, and ideas, which he could not
share, but is able to account for and respect.

We can peer as far as this into the future; for what we predict is only a reasonable deduction
from certain given circumstances that are nearly around us now. We do not lay all the stress
upon the telegraph, as if to attribute everything to it, but because that invention, and its
recent crowning event, are the last great leap which the mind has made, and because in itself,
and in its carrying out, it summoned all the previous discoveries and achievements of man to
its aid. It is their last-born child,--the greater for its many parents. There is hardly a
science, or an art, or an invention, which has not contributed to it, or which is not deriving
sustenance or inspiration from it.

This latter fact makes it particularly suggestive. As it was begotten itself, and is in its
turn begetting, so has it been with everything else in the world of progress. Every scientific
or mechanical idea, every species of discovery, has been as naturally born of one or more antecedents
of its own kind as men are born of men. There is a kith and kin among all these extraordinary
creatures of the brain. They have their ancestors and descendants; not one is a Melchizedek,
without father, without mother. Every one is a link in a regular order of generations. Some
became extinct with their age, being superseded or no longer wanted; while others had the power
of immense propagation, and produced an innumerable offspring, which have a family likeness
to this day. The law of cause and effect has no better illustration than the history of inventions
and discoveries. If there were among us an intellect sufficiently encyclopedic in knowledge
and versatile in genius, it could take every one of these facts and trace its intricate lineage
of principles and mechanisms, step by step, up to the original Adam of the first invention
and the original Eve of the first necessity.

There is a period between us and these first parents of our present progress that is strangely
obscure. It is a sort of antediluvian age, in which there were evidently stupendous mechanical
powers of some kind, and an extensive acquaintance with some things. The ruins of Egypt alone
would prove this. But a deluge of oblivion has washed over them, and left these colossal bones
to tell what story they can. The only way to account for such an extinction is, that they were
monstrous contrivances out of all proportion to their age, spasmodic successes in science,
wonders born out of due time,--deriving no sustenance or support from a wide and various kindred,
and therefore, like the giants which were of old, dying out with their day.

It is different with what has taken place since. Every work has come in its right time, just
when best prepared for, and most required. There is not one but is sustained on every side,
and fits into its place, as each new piece of colored stone in a mosaic is sustained by the
progressive picture. Every one is conserved by its connections. Whatever has been done is sure,--and
the past being secure, the future is guarantied. It is impossible that the present knowledge
in the world should be extinguished. Nothing but a stroke of imbecility upon the race, nothing
but the destruction of its libraries, nothing but the paralysis of the printing-press, and
the annihilation of these means of intercommunication,--nothing but some such arbitrary intervention
could accomplish it. The facts already in human possession, and the constitution of the mind,
together insure what we have as imperishable, and what we are to obtain as illimitable.

We come now to another suggestive characteristic of the time,--another of its promises. So
far we find Progress gathering fulness and strength,--making sure of itself. It has also been
gathering impetus. It has been, all along, accumulating momentum, and now it sweeps on with
breathless rapidity. The reason is, that, the farther it has gone, the more it has multiplied
its agents. The present generation is not only carried forward, but is excited in every quarter.
The activity and versatility of the intellect would appear to be inexhaustible. Instead of
getting overstrained, or becoming lethargic, it never was so powerful, never had so many resources,
never was so wide-awake. Men are busy turning over every stone in their way, in the hope of
finding something new. Nothing would seem too small for human attention, nothing too great
for human undertaking. The government Patent-Office, with its countless chambers, is not so
large a museum of inventions as the capacious brain of to-day.

One man is engrossed over an apple-parer; another snatches the needle from the weary fingers
of the seamstress, and offers her in return the sewing-machine. That man yonder has turned
himself into an armory, and he brings out the deadliest instrument he can produce, something
perhaps that can shoot you at sight, even though you be a speck in the horizon. His next-door
neighbor is an iron workshop, and is forging an armor of proof for a vessel of war, from which
the mightiest balls shall bound as lightly as the arrows from an old-time breastplate. There
is another searching for that new motive power which shall keep pace with the telegraph, and
hurl the bodies of men through space as fast as their thoughts are hurled; there is another
seeking that electro-magnetic battery which shall speak instantly and distinctly to the ends
of the earth. The mind of that astronomer is a telescope, through whose increasing field new
worlds float daily by; the mind of that geologist is a divining-rod, forever bending toward
the waters of chaos, and pointing out new places where a shaft can be sunk into periods of
almost infinite antiquity; the mind of that chemist is a subtile crucible, in which aboriginal
secrets lie disclosed, and within whose depths the true philosopher's stone will be found;
the mind of that mathematician is a maze of ethereal stair-ways, rising higher and higher toward
the heaven of truth.

The ambition is everywhere,--in every breast; the power is everywhere,--in every brain. The
giant and the pigmy are alike active in seeking out and finding out many inventions. And in
this very universality of effort and result we discover another guaranty of the great future.
The river of Progress multiplies its tributaries the farther it flows, and even now, unknown
ages from its mouth, we already see that magnificent widening of its channel, in which, like
the Amazon, it long anticipates the sea.

Man, the great achiever! the marvellous magician! Look at him! A head hardly six feet above
the ground out of which he was taken. His "dome of thought and palace of the soul" scarce twenty-two
inches in circumference; and within it, a little, gray, oval mass of "convoluted albumen and
fibre, of some four pounds' weight," and there sits the intelligence which has worked all these
wonders! An intelligence, say, six thousand years old next century. How many thousand years
more will it think, and think, and wave the wand, and raise new spirits out of Nature, open
her sealed-up mysteries, scale the stars, and uncover a universe at home? How long will it
be before this inherent power, laid in it at the beginning by the Almighty, shall be exhausted,
and reach its limit? Yes, how long? We cannot begin to know. We cannot imagine where the stopping-place
could be. Perhaps there is none.

To take up the nautical figure which has furnished our title,--we are in the midst of an infinite
sea, sailing on to a destination we know not of, but of which the vague and splendid fancies
we have formed hang before our prow like illusions in the sky. We are meeting on every hand
great opportunities which must not be lost, new achievements which must be wrought, and strange
adventures which must be undertaken: every day wondering more to what our commission shall
bring us at last, full of magnificent hopes and a growing faith,--the inscrutable bundle of
orders not nearly exhausted: whole continents of knowledge yet to be discovered and explored;
the gates of yet distant sciences to be sought and unlocked; the fortresses of yet undreamed
necessities to be taken; Arcadias of beauty to be visited and their treasures garnered by the
imagination; an intricate course to be followed amid all future nations and governments, and
their winding histories, as if threading the devious channels of endless archipelagoes; the
spoils of all ages to be gathered, and treaties of commerce with all generations to be made,
before the mysterious voyage is done.

And now, before we leave this fascinating theme, or suffer another dream, let us stop where
we are, in order to see where we are. Let us take our bearings. What says our chart? What do
we find in the horizon of the present, which may give us the wherewithal to hope, to doubt,
or to fear?

The era in which we live presents some remarkable characteristics, which have been brought
into it by this immense material success. It is preeminently an age of reality: an age in which
a host of unrealities--queer and strange old notions--have been destroyed forever. Never were
the vaulted spaces in this grand old temple of a world swept so clean of cobwebs before. The
mind has not gone forth working outside wonders, without effecting equal inside changes. In
achieving abroad, it has been ennobling at home. At no time was it so free from superstition
as now, and from the absurdities which have for centuries beset and filled it. What numberless
delusions, what ghosts, what mysteries, what fables, what curious ideas, have disappeared before
the besom of the day! The old author long ago foretasted this, who wrote,--"The divine arts
of printing and gunpowder have frightened away Robin Goodfellow, and all the fairies." It is
told of Kepler, that he believed the planets were borne through the skies in the arms of angels;
but science shortly took a wider sweep, killed off the angels, and showed that the wandering
luminaries had been accustomed from infancy to take care of themselves. And so has the firmament
of all knowledge been cleared of its vapors and fictions, and been revealed in its solid and
shining facts.

Here, then, lies the great distinction of the time: the accumulation of Truth, and the growing
appetite for the true and the real. The year whirls round like the toothed cylinder in a threshing-machine,
blowing out the chaff in clouds, but quietly dropping the rich kernels within our reach. And
it will always be so. Men will sow their notions and reap harvests, but the inexorable age
will winnow out the truth, and scatter to the winds whatsoever is error.

Now we see how that impalpable something has been produced which we call the "Spirit of the
Age,"--that peculiar atmosphere in which we live, which fills the lungs of the human spirit,
and gives vitality and character to all that men at present think and say and feel and do.
It is this identical spirit of courageous inquiry, honest reality, and intense activity, wrought
up into a kind of universal inspiration, moving with the same disposition, the same taste,
the same thought, persons whole regions apart and unknown to each other. We are frequently
surprised by coincidences which prove this novel, yet common afflatus. Two astronomers, with
the ocean between them, calculate at the same moment, in the same direction, and simultaneously
light upon the same new orb. Two inventors, falling in with the same necessity, think of the
same contrivance, and meet for the first time in a newspaper war, or a duel of pamphlets, for
the credit of its authorship. A dozen widely scattered philosophers as quickly hit upon the
self-same idea as if they were in council together. A more rational development of some old
doctrine in divinity springs up in a hundred places at once, as if a theological epidemic were
abroad, or a synod of all the churches were in session. It has also another peculiarity. The
thought which may occur at first to but one mind seems to have an affinity to all minds; and
if it be a free and generous thought, it is instantly caught, intuitively comprehended, and
received with acclamations all over the world. Such a spirit as this is rapidly bringing all
sections and classes of mankind into sympathy with one another, and producing a supreme caste
in human nature, which, as it increases in numbers, will mould the character and control the
destinies of the race.

So far we speak of the upper air of the day. But there is no denying the prevalence of a lower
and baser spirit. We are uncomfortably aware that there is another extreme to the freaks of
the imagination. There are superstitions of the reason and of realism,--the grotesque fancies,
mysticisms, and vagaries which prevail, and the diseased gusto for something ultra and outlandish
which affects many raw and undisciplined minds. Yet even these are, in their way, indications
of the pervading disposition,--the unhealthy exhalations to be expected from hitherto stagnant
regions, stirred up by the active and regenerating thought of the time. There is promise even
in them, and they serve to distinguish the more that purer and higher spirit of honesty and
reality, which clarifies the intellect, and invigorates the faculties that apprehend and grasp
the noble and the true.

We glory in this triumph of the reason over the imagination, and in this predominance of the
real over the ideal. We prefer that common sense should lead the van, and that mere fancy,
like the tinselled conjurer behind his hollow table and hollow apparatus, should be taken for
what it is, and that its tricks and surprises should cease to bamboozle, however much they
may amuse mankind. Nothing, in the course of Providence, conveys so much encouragement as this
recent and growing development of reality in thought and pursuit. In its presence the future
of the world looks substantial and sure. We dream of an immense change in the tone of the human
spirit, and in the character of the civilization which shall in time embower the earth.

But, as it has always been, the greater the good, the nearer the evil; Satan is next-door neighbor
to the saint; Eden had a lurking-hole for the serpent. Just here the voyaging is most dangerous;
just here we drop the plummet and strike upon a shoal; we lift up our eyes, and discover a
lee-shore.

The mind that is not profound enough to perceive and believe even what it cannot comprehend,--that
is the shoal. Unless the reason will permit the sounding-lead to fall illimitably down into
a submarine world of mystery, too deep for the diver, and yet a true and living world,--unless
there is admitted to be a fathomless gulf, called faith, underlying the surface-sea of demonstration,
the race will surely ground in time, and go to pieces. There is the peril of this all-prevailing
love of the real. It may become such an infatuation that nothing will appear actual which is
not visible or demonstrable, which the hand cannot handle or the intellect weigh and measure.
Even to this extreme may the reason run. Its vulnerable point is pride. It is easily encouraged
by success, easily incited to conceit, readily inclined to overestimate its power. It has a
Chinese weakness for throwing up a wall on its involuntary boundary-line, and for despising
and defying all that is beyond its jurisdiction. The reason may be the greatest or the meanest
faculty in the soul. It may be the most wise or the most foolish of active things. It may be
so profound as to acknowledge a whole infinitude of truth which it cannot comprehend, or it
may be so superficial as to suspect everything it is asked to believe, and refuse to trust
a fact out of its sight. There is the danger of the day. There is the lee-shore upon which
the tendencies of the age are blowing our bark: a gross and destructive materialism, which
is the horrid and treacherous development of a shallow realism.

In the midst of this splendid era there is a fast-increasing class who are disposed to make
the earth the absolute All,--to deny any outlet from it,--to deny any capacity in man for another
sphere,--to deny any attribute in God which interests Him in man,--to shut out, therefore,
all faith, all that is mysterious, all that is spiritual, all that is immortal, all that is Divine.

  "There live, alas! of heaven-directed mien,
  Of cultured soul, and sapient eye serene,
  Who hail thee Man!--the pilgrim of a day,
  Spouse of the worm, and brother of the clay,
  Frail as the leaf in autumn's yellow bower,
  Dust in the wind, or dew upon the flower,
  A friendless slave, a child without a sire.
         *       *       *       *       *
  Are these the pompous tidings ye proclaim,
  Lights of the world, and demigods of Fame?
  Is this your triumph, this your proud applause,
  Children of Truth, and champions of her cause?
  For this hath Science searched on weary wing,
  By shore and sea, each mute and living thing?
  Launched with Iberia's pilot from the steep,
  To worlds unknown, and isles beyond the deep?
  Or round the cope her living chariot driven,
  And wheeled in triumph through the signs of heaven?

