Ben brought the rail, but just as he was about to lay it from the main-land to the nearest
tussock, he stopped, saying, with the naughty twinkle in his black eyes again: "One more little
thing must be settled first, and then I'll get you ashore. Promise you wont plague the girls
either, 'specially Bab and Betty. You pull their hair, and they don't like it."

"Don't neither. Wouldn't touch that Bab for a dollar; she scratches and bites like a mad cat,"
was Sam's sulky reply.

"Glad of it; she can take care of herself. Betty can't, and if you touch one of her pig-tails
I'll up and tell right out how I found you sniveling in the ma'sh like a great baby. So now!"
and Ben emphasized his threat with a blow of the suspended rail which splashed the water over
poor Sam, quenching his last spark of resistance.

"Stop! I will!--I will!"

"True as you live and breathe!" demanded Ben, sternly binding him by the most solemn oath he knew.

"True as I live and breathe," echoed Sam, dolefully relinquishing his favorite pastime of pulling
Betty's braids and asking if she was at home.

"I'll come over there and crook fingers on the bargain," said Ben, settling the rail and running
over it to the tuft, then bridging another pool and crossing again till he came to the stump.

"I never thought of that way," said Sam, watching him with much inward chagrin at his own failure.

"I should think you'd written 'Look before you leap,' in your copy-book often enough to get
the idea into your stupid head. Come, crook," commanded Ben, leaning forward with extended
little finger.

Sam obediently performed the ceremony, and then Ben sat astride one of the horns of the stump
while the muddy Crusoe went slowly across the rail from point to point till he landed safely
on the shore, when he turned about and asked with an ungrateful jeer:

"Now, what's going to become of you, old Look-before-you-leap?"

"Mud-turtles can only sit on a stump and bawl till they are taken off, but frogs have legs
worth something, and are not afraid of a little water," answered Ben, hopping away in an opposite
direction, since the pools between him and Sam were too wide for even his lively legs.

Sam waddled off to the brook above the marsh to rinse the mud from his nether man before facing
his mother, and was just wringing himself out when Ben came up, breathless but good-natured,
for he felt that he had made an excellent bargain for himself and friends.

"Better wash your face; it's as speckled as a tiger-lily. Here's my handkerchief if yours is
wet," he said, pulling out a dingy article which had evidently already done service as a towel.

"Don't want it," muttered Sam, gruffly, as he poured the water out of his muddy shoes.

"I was taught to say 'Thanky' when folks got me out of scrapes. But you never had much bringing
up, though you do 'live in a house with a gambrel roof,'" retorted Ben, sarcastically quoting
Sam's frequent boast; then he walked off, much disgusted with the ingratitude of man.

Sam forgot his manners, but he remembered his promise, and kept it so well that all the school
wondered. No one could guess the secret of Ben's power over him, though it was evident that
he had gained it in some sudden way, for at the least sign of Sam's former tricks Ben would
crook his little finger and wag it warningly, or call out "Bulrushes!" and Sam subsided with
reluctant submission, to the great amazement of his mates. When asked what it meant, Sam turned
sulky; but Ben had much fun out of it, assuring the other boys that those were the signs and
pass-word of a secret society to which he and Sam belonged, and promised to tell them all about
it if Sam would give him leave, which, of course, he would not.

