
One of these--but we will not betray the secret of our loves--contains some rare words, such
as the Gallicism mistresse-piece, and the delightful hybrid pundonnore for trifling points-of-honor;
yet we by no means complain that we can find neither of them in Worcester, and only the former
(with a ludicrously mistaken definition) in Webster.

A conclusive reason with us for preferring Dr. Worcester's Dictionary is, that its author has
properly understood his functions, and has aimed to give us a true view of English as it is,
and not as he himself may have wished it should be or thought it ought to he. Its etymologies
are sufficient for the ordinary reader,--sometimes superfluously full, as where the same word
is given over and over again in cognate languages. We do not see the use, under the word PLAIN,
of taking up room with a list like the following: "L. planus; It. piano; Sp. piano; Fr. plain."
Not content with this, Dr. Worcester gives it once more under PLAN: "L. planus, flat; It. piano,
a plan; Sp. piano; Fr. plan.--Dut., Ger., Dan., and Sw. plan." Even yet we have not done with
it, for under PLANE we find "L. planus; It. piano; Sp.plano, Fr. plan." One would think this
rather a Polyglot Lexicon than an English Dictionary. It seems to us that no Romanic derivative
of the Latin root should he given, unless to show that the word has come into English by that
channel. And so of the Teutonic languages. If we have Danish, Swedish, German, and Dutch, why
not Scotch, Icelandic, Frisic, Swiss, and every other conceivable dialectic variety?

Another fault of superfluousness we find in the number of compounded words, where the meaning
is obvious,--such, for instance, as are formed with the adverb out, which the genius of the
language permits without limit in the case of verbs. Dr. Worcester gives us, among many others,--

"OUT-BABBLE, v. a. To surpass in Idle prattle; to exceed in babbling. Milton."

"OUT-BELLOW, v. a. To bellow more or louder than; to exceed or surpass in bellowing. Bp. Hall."

"OUT-BLEAT, v. a. To bleat more than; to exceed in bleating. Bp. Hall."

"OUT-BRAG, v. a. To surpass in bragging. Shak."

"OUT-BRIBE, v, a. To exceed in bribing. Blair."

"OUT-BURN, v. a. To exceed in burning. Young." [The definition here is hardly complete; since
the word means also to burn longer than.]

"OUT-CANT, v. a. To surpass in canting. Pope."

"OUT-CHEAT, v. a. To surpass in cheating."

"OUT-CURSE, v. a. To surpass in cursing."

"OUT-DRINK, v. a. To exceed in drinking. Donne."

"OUT-FAWN, v. a. To excel in fawning. Hudibras."

"OUT-FEAT, v. a. To surpass in feats. Smart."

"OUT-FLASH, v. a. To surpass in flashing. Clarke."

Similar words occur at frequent intervals through nine columns. Dr. Webster is equally relentless,
(even roping in a few estrays in his Appendix,) and we hardly know which has out-worded the
other. We were surprised to find in neither the useful and legitimate substantive form of outgo,
as the opposite of income. This superfluousness (unless we apply Voltaire's saying, "Le superflu,
chose bien necessaire" to dictionaries also) is the result, we suppose, of the rivalry of publishers,
who have done their best to persuade the public that numerosity is the chief excellence in
works of this kind, and that whoever buys their particular quarto may be sure of an honest
pennyworth and of owning a thousand or two more words than his less judicious neighbors. In
this way a false standard is manufactured, to which the lexicographer must conform, if he would
have a remunerative sale for his book. He accordingly explores every lane and impasse in the
purlieus of Grub Street, and pounces on a new word as a naturalist would on a new bug,--the
stranger and uglier, the better. We regret that this kind of rivalry has been forced on Dr.
Worcester; but he is so thorough, patient, and conscientious, that he leaves little behind
him for the gleaner. We confess that the amplitude of his research has surprised us, highly
as we were prepared to rate him in this respect by our familiarity with his former works. We
have subjected his Dictionary to a pretty severe test. From the time of its publication we
have made a point of seeking in it every unusual word, old or new, that we met with in our
reading. We have been disappointed in hardly a single instance, and we are not acquainted with
any other dictionary of which we could say as much.

An attempt has been made to damage Dr. Worcester's work by a partial comparison of his definitions
with those of Dr. Webster; and here, again, the assumption has been, that number was of more
importance than concise completeness. In the case of a quarto dictionary, we suppose an honest
reviewer may confess that he has not read through the subject of his criticism. We have opened
Dr. Webster's volume at random, and have found some of his definitions as extraordinarily inaccurate
as many of his etymologies. They quite justify a double-entendre of Daniel Webster's, which
we heard him utter many years ago in court. He had forced such a meaning upon some word in
a paper connected with the case on trial, that the opposing counsel interrupted him to ask
in what dictionary he found the word so defined. He silenced his questioner instantly with
a happy play upon the name common to himself and the lexicographer: "In Webster's Dictionary,
Sir!" We find in Webster, for example, the following definition of a word as to whose meaning
he could have been set right by any coasting-skipper that sailed out of New Haven:--

"AMID-SHIPS; in marine language, the middle of a ship with regard to her length and breadth."
Now, when one ship runs into another at sea and strikes her amid-ships, how is she to contrive
to accomplish it so as to satisfy the requirements of this definition? Or if a sailor is said
to be standing amidships, must he be planted precisely in what he would probably agree with
Dr. Webster in spelling the center of the main-hatch? Dr. Worcester, quoting Falconer, is of
course right.

We give another of Dr. Webster's definitions, which caught our eye in looking over his array
of words compounded with out. "OUTWARD-BOUND; proceeding from a port or country." Now Dr. Webster
does not tell his readers that the term is exclusively applicable to vessels; and we should
like to know whence a vessel is likely to proceed, unless from a port,--and where ports are
commonly situated, unless in countries? If an American ship be "proceeding from" the port of
Liverpool to some port in the United States, how soon does she enter on what lexicographers
call "the state of being" homeward-bound? The narrow limits to which Dr. Webster confines the
word would not extend beyond the jaws of the harbor from which the ship is sailing. Dr. Worcester's
definition is, "OUTWARD-BOUND. (Naut.) Bound outward or to foreign parts. Crabb."

Under the word MORESQUE we find in Webster the following definition: "A species of painting
or carving done after the Moorish manner, consisting of grotesque pieces and compartments promiscuously
interspersed; arabesque. Gwilt." (The Italics are our own.) We have not Mr. Gwilt's Encyclopaedia
at hand; but if this be a fair representation of one of its definitions, it is a very untrustworthy
authority. The last term to be applied to arabesque-work is grotesque, or promiscuously interspersed;
and the description here given leaves out the most beautiful kind of arabesque, namely, the
inlaid work of geometrical figures in colored marbles, in which the Arabs far surpassed the
older opus Alexandrinum. Nothing could be less grotesque, less promiscuously interspersed,
or more beautiful in its harmonious variety, than the work of this kind in the famous Capella
Reale at Palermo.

