 Meanwhile,
if I were the writer, I should purchase a bulldog.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mrs. GEORGE WEMYSS has for some time past specialised in spinster-aunts, bachelor-uncles and
charming nieces. In Oranges and Lemons (CONSTABLE) she introduces us pleasantly to some more.
The plot, in fact, is chiefly concerned with the violent squabbles of an uncle and aunt, who
belong to different sides of the family, for the good graces of Diana (who is nineteen, or
thereabouts, and radiant), and Shant, (who says so--just like that--and is five). There are
also several young men. To test his abilities in the Admirable Crichton line Diana maroons
the most favoured of these, together with three other aspirants to her hand, and her bachelor
uncle, on an island in a Scottish loch, hamperless, on a soft day. As the affections of all
the lovers remain undimmed, you can guess what kind of a girl Diana must have been. Shant's
even more responsible job is to tumble off a pony and allay the temporary tartness which existed
between her two elderly admirers, so that nothing but oranges and orange-blossoms remain. Really,
of course, none of the story much matters. But if you want the sensation of having stayed with
delightful people in delightful places, where rising prices are not even mentioned or thought
of, Mrs. WEMYSS can give it you all the time.

       *       *       *       *       *

Night and Day (DUCKWORTH) is the title of VIRGINIA WOOLF'S last book; but there is no night
for the author's clarity of vision, or her cleverness in describing every detail she has seen,
or her delicate precision of style; there is only daylight, temperate, pervading, but at times,
I am afraid, almost irritatingly calm. "Give me one indiscretion of sympathy or emotion on
behalf of your characters," the reader is tempted to implore her; "let me feel that you are
a little bit excited about them and I shall feel excited too." The story, after all, is the
simple one (to put it in the shudderingly crude language of former days) of a girl's change
of heart from an unreal love to one of whose sincerity she eventually convinces herself. Katharine
Hilbery, the granddaughter of a great poet, brought up by a father whose only interest is in
literature, and a charming mother who wanders in fields of Victorian romance, breaks off her
engagement with a civil servant who has more taste than talent for letters, and chooses instead
a man slightly below her in social position, but with firmness and decision of character and
genuine skill in--what? Ironmongery? No, literature. All through the book I found myself wondering
whether a mind so finely tempered as Katharine's, a perception so acute, was really fitted
for anything so commonplace as, after all, love is. And I longed for the authoress, who explained
every mood so amazingly well, to explain this too.

       *       *       *       *       *

