The second form, to like, i. e. to be pleased with, is quite distinct from the former (though
it has been thought akin to it on the ground that simili similis placet); and is derived from
the A.-S. lician, which is from lic, or lac, a gift; Low Germ. licon; Dutch lyken.

The third form, the compound term belike (mostly used adverbially) is from the A.-S. licgan,
belicgan, which means, to lie by, near, or around; to attend, accompany; Low Germ. and Dutch,
liggen; Germ. liegen. In the old German, we have licken, ligin, liggen--jacere; and geliggen--se
habere; which last seems to be the exact counterpart of our old English belike; and this it
was which first suggested to me what I conceive to be its true meaning. We find the simple
and compound words in juxtaposition in Otfridi Evang., lib. i. cap. 23. 110. in vol. i. p.
221. of Schilter's Thes. Teut.:

 "Thoh er nu biliban si,
    Farames thoh thar er si
  Zi thiu'z nu sar giligge,
    Thoh er bigraben ligge."

 "Etsi vero is (Lazarus) jam mortuus est,
    Eamus tamen ubi is sit,
  Quomodo id jam se habeat (quo in statu sint res ejus),
    Etiamsi jam sepultus jaceat."

On which Schilter remarks:

    "Zi thiu'z nu sar giligge quomodo se res habeat, hodie standi verbo
    utimur,--wie es stehe, zustehe."

We thus see that the radical meaning of the word belike is to lie or be near, to attend; from
which it came to express the simple condition, or state of a thing: and it is in this latter
sense that the word is used as an adverbial or rather an interjectional expression, when it
may be rendered, it may be so, so it is, is it so, &c. Sometimes ironically, sometimes expressing
chance, &c.; in the course of time it became superseded by the more modern term perhaps. Instances
of similar elliptical expressions are common at the present day, and will readily suggest themselves:
the modern please, used for entreaty, is analogous.

It is not a little singular that this account of the word belike enables us to understand a
passage in Macbeth, which has been unintelligible to all the commentators and readers of Shakspeare
down to the present day. I allude to the following, which stands in my first folio, Act IV.
Sc. 3., thus:

 "    .    .    .    .

Now it is not easy to see why Malcolm should wish that "chance" should "be like," i. e. similar
to, their "warranted quarrel;" inasmuch as that quarrel was most unfortunate and disastrous.
Chance is either fortunate or unfortunate. The epithet just, which might apply to the quarrel
in question, is utterly irreconcilable with chance. Still this sense has pleased the editors,
and they have made "of goodnesse" a precatory and interjectional expression. Surely it is far
more probable that the poet wrote belike (belicgan, geliggen) as one word, and that the meaning
of the passage is simply "May good fortune attend our enterprise." MR. COLLIER'S old corrector
passes over this difficulty in silence, doubtless owing to the circumstance that the word was
well understood in his time.

I have alluded to the word like as expressive in the English language of three distinct ideas,
and in the A.-S. of at least four; is it not possible that these meanings, which, as we find
the words used, are undoubtedly widely distinct, having travelled to us by separate channels,
may nevertheless have had originally one and the same source? I should be glad to elicit the
opinion of some one of your more learned correspondents as to whether the unused Hebrew [Hebrew:
YLN] may not be that source.

H. C. K.

---- Rectory, Hereford.

       *       *       *       *       *

{360}

DRUSES.

Comparing the initiatory undertaking or covenant of the Druses, as represented by Col. Churchill
in his very important disclosures (Lebanon, ii. 244.), with the original Arabic, and the German
translation of Eichhorn (Repertorium für Bibl. und Morgenland, lib. xii. 222.), I find that
the following additions made by Col. Churchill (or De Sacy, whom he follows) are not in the
Arabic, but appear to be glosses or amplifications. For example:

    "I put my trust and confidence in our Lord Hakem, the One, the Eternal,
    without attribute and without number."

    "That in serving Him he will serve no other, whether past, present, or
    to come."

    "To the observance of which he sacredly binds himself by the present
    contract and engagement, should he ever reveal the least portion of it
    to others."

    "The most High, King of Kings, [the creator] of the heaven and the
    earth."

    "Mighty and irresistible [force]."

Col. Churchill, although furnishing the amplest account which has yet appeared of the Druse
religion, secretly held under the colour of Mahometanism, has referred very sparingly to the
catechisms of this sect, which, being for the especial instruction of the two degrees of monotheists,
constitute the most authentic source of accurate knowledge of their faith and practices, and
which are to be found in the original Arabic, with a German translation in Eichhorn's Repertorium
(xii. 155. 202.). In the same work (xiv. 1., xvii. 27.), Bruns (Kennicott's colleague) has
furnished from Abulfaragius a biography of the Hakem; and Adler (xv. 265.) has extracted, from
various oriental sources, historical notices of the founder of the Druses.

The subject is peculiarly interesting at the present juncture, as it is probable that the Chinese
religious movement, partaking of a peculiar kind of Christianity, may have originated amongst
the Druses, who appear from Col. Churchill to have been in expectation of some such movement
in India or China in connexion with a re-appearance of the Hakem.

T. J. BUCKTON.

Birmingham.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOLK LORE.

