Eight o'clock at night. Nadine, very ill, sleeps upon my bed, groaning plaintively each time
that an unconscious movement causes her to touch her arms, whilst I, like all the other prisoners
not invalided, remain at my window. In spite of the silence of several months which has imposed
upon us, the conversation flags. We are too tired, and there are too many sick amongst us;
there are also the dead. Where are they now? Removed before our chains were taken off, they
will this night be buried with other corpses of political prisoners, secretly hid away to rest
by the police in order to avoid any public manifestation on the part of friends, or remarks
on the part of the local population. These thoughts, at intervals, awaken our anger, and then
murmurs are heard. As the night grows deeper, and the sounds of evening are lost in the mists,
covering the country as with a veil, our sick nerves become calmer, and our hatred gives place
to an immense and tender sadness. Then we talk of our mothers, of the mother of Helena Q----,
and of Ivanoff's mother, both of whom are probably still in ignorance of the death of their
children, and are still waiting and hoping. And then we talk of the impression made upon our
parents and friends when the echoes of this terrible day reach their ears.

Just as the rattle of drums announces that the gates of the fortress are about to be closed
for the night, we hear the tramp of soldiers and the jingle of sword-scabbards in the ground-floor
corridor. It is a detachment of soldiers, accompanied by their officers and Captain W----,
who have come to fetch away two of our comrades in order to escort them to the military prison.
Young and vigorous, these two prisoners fought fiercely before they were overpowered and chained,
and as the Commandant of the fortress, impatient at the duration of the struggle, took part
in it, he was roughly handled. Blows struck at a superior officer constitute a crime for which
the offenders are to be tried by court-martial. They know it, and we know it. But this haste
on the part of the Commandant to have them in his hands--this order to transfer them at night--which
is given by the Director in a trembling voice--is it a provocation or a folly? The outer court-yard
is gradually and silently filling with moving shadows. Rifles, of which the barrels glitter
in the starlight, are pointed towards our windows. This mute menace of a massacre in the darkness
finds us indifferent, and not one of us leaves his or her place at the window. But some are
ill, and all wounded and tired out by the emotions and struggles of the day, and having been
without food for over twenty-six hours; and can we revolt again? As regards the court-martial,
none fear, and all would be willing to be tried by it. Its verdicts are pitiless, terrible;
but they are verdicts, and it is an end. To-morrow, one after the other, we shall go to the
Director's cabinet, and there sign a declaration of our entire solidarity with those who are
now being taken away, and that declaration, every word of which will be an insult thrown in
the face of the Government, will terminate by a demand for trial by court-martial, not only
of ourselves, but also of the Commandant of the fortress. This demand, as usual, will be supported
by famine, by the absolute refusal of all prisoners to take any nourishment whatsoever, a process
which kills the prisoners, but before which the Government, anxious to avoid the disastrous
impression which these numerous deaths produce, yields, at least in appearance. Whilst we wait
all is darkness, for the warders have not lit the little lamps. Through the disordered cells
run strange murmurs, and passions are again aroused; while below, those who are being taken
away make hasty preparations for their short journey.

I do not know them. We are about a hundred prisoners, arrested in different parts of the province
at different times, and in spite of our being described as "accomplices," many of us have never
met or heard of each other.

A few days later, before the windows are replaced, and the dull grey cloud again presses upon
us, the desire to see and know each other suggests an idea. Each prisoner, standing at the
window, holds a mirror which he or she passes outside the bars. Held at an angle these pieces
of glass throw back floating images of pale, phantom-like faces, many of them unknown or unrecognisable.
Those who are to-night leaving the prison are, for me, not even phantoms, but only voices heard
for the first time this morning, and now so soon to be silenced, by the cord of Troloff, or
in some cell at Schlüsselbourg or the Cross.[11] And yet, as I listen to these voices dying
away in the dark distance, I again experience all the despair and all the hate of the day,
and my last "adieu" is choked in a sob--and when, a few moments later, the heavy outer door
is closed, a great shudder as of death passes over the prison.

                         (To be continued.)

  [11] Troloff--the Russian public executioner. Schlüsselbourg and the
  Cross--names of central prisons where the prisoners, placed in small
  cells, are always chained. Deprived of books or tools, not allowed to
  see their friends, forbidden to write or receive letters, those subject
  to the treatment, after a few months, become mad and die.

A Slave of the Ring.

BY ALFRED BERLYN.

ILLUSTRATIONS BY JOHN GÜLICH.

          -----

The Rev. Thomas Todd, curate of S. Athanasius, Great Wabbleton, sat at the table in his little
parlour with a local newspaper in his hand and a troubled expression on his face. There was
something incongruous in the appearance of the deep frown that puckered the curate's brows;
for his countenance, in its normal aspect, was chubby and plump and bland, and his little grey
eyes were wont to shine with a benign and even a humorous twinkle. He was not remarkably young,
as curates go; but he was quite young enough to be a subject of absorbing interest to the lady
members of the S. Athanasius congregation, and to find himself the frequent recipient of those
marks of feminine attention which are the recognised perquisites of the junior assistant clergy.

Two or three times, the curate raised the paper from the table and re-read the passage that
was evidently troubling him; and each time he did so the puckers deepened, and his expression
became more and more careworn. It would have been difficult enough for a stranger to find any
clue to the cause of his agitation in the portion of the Wabbleton Post and Grubley Advertiser
which the clergyman held before him; and the wonder would certainly have been increased by
the discovery that the passage to which the reverend gentleman's attention was directed was
nothing else than the following innocent little paragraph of news:--

     "Grubley.--We are asked to state that Benotti's Original Circus,
     one of the oldest established and most complete in the kingdom,
     will give two performances daily at Bounders Green during the whole
     of next week."

There seemed little enough in such an announcement to bring disquiet to the curate's mind.
Possibly, he cherished a conscientious objection to circuses, and remembered that, as Grubley
and Great Wabbleton were only three miles apart, a section of the S. Athanasius flock might
be allured next week by the meretricious attraction at Bounders Green. Yet even such solicitude
for the welfare of the flock of which he was the assistant shepherd seemed scarcely to account
either for his obvious distress, or for the fragments of soliloquy that escaped him at every
fresh study of the paper.

"Here, of all places in the world--absolute ruin--no, not on any account!"

At length, throwing down the Post, the curate seized his hat, started at a rapid pace for the
Vicarage, and was soon seated tête-à-tête with his superior, an amiable old gentleman with
a portly presence and an abiding faith in his assistant's ability to do the whole work of the
parish unaided.

"Vicar, do you think you can spare me for the next week or so? The fact is, I am feeling the
want of a change badly, and should be glad of a few days to run down to my people in Devonshire."

"My dear Todd, how unfortunate! I have just made arrangements to be away myself next week--and--and
the week following. I am going up to London to stay with my old friend Canon Crozier. I was
just coming to tell you so when you called. If you don't mind waiting till I return, I've no
doubt we can manage to spare you for a day or two. Sorry you're not feeling well. By-the-bye,
has that tiresome woman Mrs. Dunderton been worrying you? She came here yesterday about those
candles, and threatened to write to the Bishop and denounce us as Popish conspirators. Couldn't
you go and talk to her, and see if you can bring her to a more reasonable frame of mind?"

The talk drifted to church and parish matters, and, as soon as he decently could, the curate
took his leave, looking very much more depressed and anxious than ever. As he raised the latch
of the Vicarage gate, a voice, whose sound he knew only too well, called to him by name; and,
turning, he beheld Miss Caroline Cope, the Vicar's daughter, pursuing him skittishly down the
garden path. Miss Caroline was not young, neither was she amiable, and her appearance was quite
remarkably unattractive. All this would have mattered little to the curate, but for the fact
that she had lately shown for him a marked partiality that had inspired him with considerable
uneasiness. At this moment, when his mind was troubled with other matters, her unwelcome appearance
aroused in his breast a feeling of extreme irritation.

"Don't run away from me, you naughty, unfeeling man," she began, with an elephantine attempt
at archness. "I was going to ask you to take me down to the schoolrooms, but I shall have to
go alone if you fly away from me like this."

Mr. Todd, fervently wishing that flying were just then among his accomplishments, felt that
now, while he was in the humour, was the time to free himself, finally if possible, from these
embarrassing attentions.

"I am sorry I cannot give myself the pleasure of accompanying you, Miss Cope. I have several
sick persons and others to call upon in different parts of the parish, and my duties will fully
occupy the whole of my morning. I'm afraid I don't happen to be going in the direction of the
schools, so I must say 'good morning' here."

And the curate raised his hat and passed on, fortifying himself with the reflection that what
might in an ordinary case have been rudeness was in this instance the merest and most necessary
self-defence.

Miss Cope stood looking after his retreating figure with a viperous look in her face, and with
a feeling of intense rage, which she promised herself to translate into action at the very
earliest opportunity.

Early in the following week, the Vicar started for London, and his curate was left in sole
charge of the parish. That there was something amiss with Mr. Todd was evident to all who came
in contact with him, both before and after the Vicar's departure. His former geniality seemed
to have quite deserted him, and he looked worried, anxious, and ill. The ladies of S. Athanasius
were greatly concerned at the change, and speculated wildly as to its cause. There was one
among them, however, who made no comment upon the subject, and appeared, in fact, to ignore
the curate's existence altogether. Whatever might be the source of that gentleman's troubles,
he had, at any rate, freed himself from the unwelcome advances of Miss Caroline Cope.

The third morning after the Vicar's departure, his assistant was sent for to visit a sick parishioner
who lived just outside Great Wabbleton, on the high road to Grubley. The summons was an imperative
one; but he obeyed it with a curious and unwonted reluctance. As he reached the outskirts of
the town and struck into the Grubley road, his distaste for his errand seemed to increase,
and he looked uneasily from side to side with a strange, furtive glance, in singular contrast
to his usual steady gaze and cheerful smile. He reached his destination, however, without adventure,
and remained for some time at the invalid's bedside. His return journey was destined to be
more eventful. He had not proceeded far on his way back to Great Wabbleton, when a showily-dressed
woman, who was passing him on the road, stopped short and regarded him with a prolonged and
half-puzzled stare that ended in a sudden cry of amazed recognition. "Well--I'm blest--it's Tommy!"

She was a buxom, and by no means unattractive, person of about five-and-thirty, with an irresistibly
"horsey" suggestion about her appearance and gait. As the curate's eye met hers, he turned
deadly pale, and his knees trembled beneath him. That which he had dreaded for days and nights
had come to pass.

"Well, I'm blest!" said the lady again, "who'd have thought of meeting you here after all these
years--and in this make-up, too! But I should have known you among a thousand, all the same.
Why, Tommy, you don't mean to say they've gone and made a parson of you?"

The curate was desperate. His first impulse was to deny all knowledge of the woman who stood
gazing into his face with a comical expression of mingled amusement and surprise. But her next
words showed him the hopelessness of such a course.

"You're not going to say you don't know me, Tommy, though it is nigh twenty years since we
were in the ring together, and you've got into a black coat and a dog-collar. Fancy them making
a parson of you; Lord, who'd have thought it! Well, I've had a leg-up, too, since then. I'm
Madame Benotti now. The old lady died, and he made me missus of himself and the show. He often
talks about you, and wouldn't he stare, just, to see you in this rig-out!"

By the time, the Rev. Thomas Todd had recovered himself sufficiently to speak, and had decided
that a bold course was the safest.

"I'm really glad to see you again," he said, with a shuddering thought of the fate of Ananias;
"it reminds me so of the old times. But, you see, things are changed with me. You remember
the old gentleman who adopted me, and took me away from the circus? Well, he sent me to school
and college, and then set his heart on my becoming, as you say, a parson. I haven't forgotten
the old days, but--but you see, if the people round here knew about my having been----"

"Lor' bless you, Tommy," broke in the good-natured équestrienne, "you don't think I'd be so
mean as to go and queer an old pal's pitch; you've nothing to fear from me; don't be afraid,
there's nobody coming"--for the curate was looking distractedly round. "Well, I'm mighty glad
to have seen you again, even in this get-up, but I won't stop and talk to you any longer, or
one of your flock might come round the corner, and then--O my! wouldn't there be a rumpus?
Ha, ha, ha!"

She laughed loudly, and the clergyman looked round again in an agony.

"Now, Tommy, good-bye to you, and good luck. But look here, before you go, just for the sake
of the old times, when you were 'little Sandy,' and I used to do the bare-backed business,
you'll give us a kiss, won't you, old man?"

And before the unhappy curate could prevent her, Madame Benotti had flung her muscular arms
round his neck, and imprinted two sounding kisses on his cheeks.

At that fatal moment, a female figure came round the bend of the road, and, to his indescribable
horror, the curate recognised the dread form of the Vicar's daughter. She had seen all--of
that there could be no doubt, but she came on, passed them, and continued on her way to Grubley
without the smallest sign of recognition.

"My goodness, Tommy, I hope that old cat wasn't one of your flock," remarked Madame Benotti,
with real concern, as soon as she had passed. "You look as scared as if you had seen a ghost;
I hope I haven't----"

But the curate waited to hear no more. With a hurried "Good-bye" he tore himself away, and
made his way back to his apartments in a state bordering on desperation.

Locking himself in, he paced the room for some time, groaning aloud in a perfect frenzy of
misery and apprehension. Then he flung himself into his chair, buried his face in his hands,
and tried to think what was best to be done. After painful and intense thought, he decided
that there was nothing for it but to tell Miss Cope the whole story, and appeal to her honour
to keep it to herself. But how if she chose to revenge herself upon him by refusing to believe
the story, or by declining to keep it secret? He could not conceal from himself that either
of these results was more than possible. In that case, there remained only one resource; and
it was of so terrible a nature that the curate positively shuddered at its contemplation. But
it might even come to that; and better even that, he told himself, than the exposure, the ridicule,
and the professional ruin that must otherwise befall him.

Hour after hour passed, and he was still nerving himself for the coming interview, when a tap
came at the door, and a note, left by hand, was brought in to him. He glanced at the address,
and tore open the envelope with trembling hand. It contained these few words, without any sort
of preliminary:--

     "I think it right to give you warning that I shall take the
     earliest opportunity of making known your disgraceful conduct
     witnessed by me in the public streets this morning.

                                                  "CAROLINE COPE."

The Rev. Thomas Todd placed the letter in his pocket with an air of desperate resolve, and
started forth for the Vicarage without another moment's delay. It was now or never--if he hesitated,
even for an hour, he might be irretrievably lost.

The first answer brought to him by the servant who opened the Vicarage door was not encouraging.
"Miss Cope was engaged, and could not see Mr. Todd." But the curate dared not allow himself
to be put off so easily. "Tell Miss Cope I must see her on business of the most serious importance,"
he said; and the message was duly carried to the Vicar's daughter. That lady, after a moment's
hesitation, felt herself unable any longer to resist enjoying a foretaste of her coming triumph,
and ordered Mr. Todd to be admitted.

The interview that followed confirmed the curate's worst fears. He told Miss Cope the whole
story, and she flatly refused to believe a word of it. He begged her to go herself to the circus
proprietor and his wife for proof of its truth, and she simply laughed in his face. He appealed
to her honour to keep the story secret, and she coldly reminded him of the duty that devolved
upon her, in her father's absence, of protecting the morals of his congregation.

Then at last, beaten and baffled at all points, the unhappy curate played his final card. He
offered the Vicar's daughter the best possible evidence of his sincerity by asking her to become
his wife. The effect was magical. It was the first chance of a husband that had ever come to
Caroline in her thirty-nine years of life, and she had an inward conviction that it would be
the last. The secret she had just learnt was known to no one in the parish but herself, and
so, after a brief pretence of further parley to save appearances, she jumped at the offer,
and the curate left the Vicarage an engaged man. His last desperate throw had succeeded. He
had saved his position and his reputation; but at what a cost he dared not even think.

Within the next day or two, it became evident to all whom he met that there was something very
seriously wrong with the Rev. Thomas Todd. His manner became first morose and abstracted, and
then wild and eccentric. He was seen very little in the town, and when he did appear, his haggard
face, his strange, absent air, and the unmistakable evidences of the profound depression that
possessed him, were the objects of general remark. Some of the more charitable expressed a
confident opinion that the curate had committed a crime; others decided, with more penetration,
that he was going mad. From Miss Cope he kept carefully aloof. It had been arranged at that
fatal interview that their engagement should be kept secret until the return of the Vicar,
whose sanction must be obtained before the affair could be made public. Miss Cope was aware
that the curate had two sermons to prepare in addition to his parish duties--for he would have
to preach twice on Sunday owing to her father's absence; so she did not allow his non-appearance
at the Vicarage on Friday or Saturday to greatly surprise her.

If she could have seen the way in which the preparation of those sermons was proceeding, she
might have found more cause for anxiety. Shut up in his room with some sheets of blank paper
before him, the curate sat for hours together, staring vacantly at the wall before him, and
occasionally giving vent to a loud, strange laugh. The evening of Saturday passed into night,
and still he sat on, looking before him into the darkness with the same vacant stare, and uttering
from time to time the same wild, hoarse chuckle.

The light of Sunday morning, streaming into the room, fell upon a weird, dishevelled figure,
that still stared fixedly at the wall, and every now and then muttered strange and wholly unclerical
words and phrases. Still the hours wore on, until the sun rose high in the heavens, and the
bells began to ring for church. Then came a knock at the curate's door. His landlady, surprised
by his neglect of the breakfast hour, had been positively alarmed when he showed no sign of
heeding the approach of church time. The knock was repeated; and then the clergyman sprang
to his feet and unlocked the door.

"Wait a moment," he cried, with a wild laugh. "Now come in!"

The landlady put her head in at the door, and uttered a shriek of horror and amazement. The
Rev. Thomas Todd was standing on his head in the middle of the hearthrug.

"God bless us and save us--the poor gentleman's gone clean out of his wits!"

The curate's only reply was a shrill whoop, followed by an agile leap into an upright position,
and a wild grab at the terrified lady, whose thirteen stone of solid matronhood he whirled
round his head and tossed across the room as if it had been a feather-weight. Then, hatless
and unkempt, he tore down stairs into the street, and started at a furious pace in the direction
of S. Athanasius.

It was three minutes to eleven, and the last stroke of the clanky church-bell had just died
away in a series of unmusical vibrations. The townspeople, in all the added importance of Sunday
clothes, gathered in an ever-thickening knot about the gates, greeting one another before they
passed on into the church. At that moment, there floated towards them on the breeze a sudden,
sharp shout that rooted them to the spot in positive consternation.

"Houp-la! Houp-la! Hey! Hey!! Hey!!!" And in another instant the unfortunate curate, tearing
down the road, had flung himself among them and scattered them right and left by a series of
vigorous and splendidly-executed somersaults. With a well-directed leap, and a wild cry of
"Here we are again!" he vaulted lightly over the church gate, and began to run up the path
towards the door, until, at last, the horrified onlookers awoke to the realities of the situation
and half-a-dozen sturdy townsmen rushed upon and seized the unhappy man. Then a woman's piercing
scream was heard, and the Vicar's daughter, who had just arrived on the scene, fell fainting
to the ground.

There was no service at S. Athanasius that morning, and the Rev. Thomas Todd was later on conveyed,
still shouting fragments of circus dialogue, to the County Lunatic Asylum. The curate's mind
had temporarily given way beneath the strain of the position in which he had found himself
placed, and of the horrible future that lay before him, and his insanity had taken the form
of an imaginary return to the scenes of his early life. When, some two years later, he was
discharged cured, he attached himself to a mission about to start for the South African Coast,
and left England without re-visiting Great Wabbleton.

Long afterwards, Miss Caroline Cope, in a burst of confidence, one day related to her special
friend, Miss Lavinia Murby, the doctor's daughter, how the Rev. Thomas Todd had proposed to
her a few days before his melancholy seizure.

"Ah, my dear, you see he couldn't have been right, even then," was that lady's sympathetic comment.

People I Have Never Met.

BY SCOTT RANKIN.

    -----

ZANGWILL.

     "I will show this Anglo-Jewish community that I am a man to be
     reckoned with. I will crush it--not it me. Then some day it will
     find out its mistake; and it will seize the hem of my coat, and
     beseech me to be its Rabbi. Then, and only then, shall we have true
     Judaism in London.

     "The folk who compose our picture are children of the Ghetto. If
     they are not the children, they are at least the grandchildren of
     the Ghetto."

                                            --"CHILDREN OF THE GHETTO."

[Sidenote: Joseph Hatton on the art of tipping.]

Almost everything has been reduced to an art. You can learn journalism outside a newspaper,
playwriting by theory, French without a master. How to succeed in literature and how not; both
ways have been laid down for the student. There is scarcely an art or a habit you cannot learn
in books. Etiquette, how to make up, stock-jobbing, acting, gardening, and a host of intellectual
pursuits, have their rules and regulations; but the mysterious and delicate art of tipping
as yet remains unexploited in the social ethics of this much-taught generation. It is high
time that the proper method of giving tips should be defined, its laws codified, its many possibilities
of error guarded against, and some system set forth whereby the tipper may give the greatest
satisfaction to the tipped at the most moderate, if not the least, outlay in current coin of
the realm. The art could be illustrated with many examples from the earliest times. Pelagia's
tip to Hypatia's father was the dancer's cestus, which was jewelled with precious stones enough
to stock the shop of a Bond Street jeweller of our own time. According to the truthful interpretation
of the old English days which we find in the drama, the most popular method of tipping was
to present your gold in a long, knitted purse, which you threw at the tippee's feet or slapped
into the palm of his hand; but this system seems to have lapsed; and no fresh regulation has
been established in the unwritten laws of the douceur, which goes back even before the days
when extravagant and unwilling tips were often enforced with pincers, racks, and other imperative
inventions. Monte Cristo gave wonderful tips, and Monte Carlo is lavish to this day. The genius
that wrecked Panama has an open hand. Promoters of London companies know how to be liberal.
Not much art is required, I believe, to distribute largess of this kind. Nor are certain classes
of American aldermen difficult to deal with. The art that should be made most clear is how
to pay your host's servants for your host's hospitality; how to show your gratitude to a newspaper
man without hurting his amour propre; how to meet the requirements of the middleman of life
and labour without "giving yourself away"; how to tip the parson when you are married; and,
in this connection, one may remark the consolation of dying; the tippee does not trouble you
at your own funeral.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: With reference to waiters, deans, and other public servants.]

The waiter at public dinners is a very considerate person. He assists you in every possible
way he can. With every dish he practically jogs your memory; and, as an accompaniment to the
dessert, he informs you that he "must now leave"; is there "anything else he can do for you?"
If you are of a reflective nature you may, in a moment of abstraction, rise from your seat
and shake hands with him; but if, as a right-minded citizen, you have constantly in view the
universal claim upon your purse, you will thank your friendly and condescending attendant,
and pay him for the services he has rendered to his employer. You may in your thoughtlessness
and abstraction have jeopardised the success of the waiter's arrangements for carrying off
a certain bottle of wine which he had planted for convenient removal. How much you should give
him is considered to depend upon the quality of the wine which you have been fully charged
for with your ticket; and this question of cuisine and wine still further complicates the difficult
adjustment of the rightful claims of the attendant and what is due to your own honour, not
to mention your reputation as a gourmet. An irreverent American, after a first experience,
I conclude, of English travel, said that you are safe in tipping any Britisher below the dignity
of a bishop; but a fellow-countryman, guided by this opinion, felt very unhappy when, after
being shown over a famous cathedral by the dean, he slipped half-a-sovereign into his very
reverend guide's hand, and received, in return, an intimation that the poor's box was in the
porch. I remember on one occasion, when I was investigating a question that called for special
courtesy on the part of a public official, I was disturbed during my work with the question
whether I might tip him, and, if so, to what extent. The subject almost "got on my nerves"
before the inquiry, which lasted an hour or two, came to an end; at last I determined that
it was a case for a tip. I gave him ten shillings. For a moment I thought I had offended him,
and, remembering the dean and the poor box, was about to say, "Give it to a charity," when
the official plaintively inquired if I couldn't "make it a sovereign?"

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: He discourses concerning the ethics of tipping.]

Give up the idea that tipping will succumb to any agitation. So long as commodities have to
be paid for in cash, and not in fine words and sweet smiles, tipping will exist. The moralist
may rave against it, but ask him in what way his gratitude manifests itself when a railway
porter politely relieves him of half-a-dozen bags, and deposits them in a snug corner, whilst
he has barely time to take his ticket at the booking-office. It is surely impossible to abuse
the same porter if, out of a feeling of recognition for favours previously received, he leaves
the belated passenger to manage the best way he can under a cartload of shawls, rugs, hat and
bonnet-boxes, to attend again to your comforts. You hardly sympathise with your fellow-traveller,
although he may be using very strong language against the identical porter, in whose favour,
for the second time, you part with a few coppers. It is the desire to secure the comforts and
commodities provided by the activity of others that will perpetuate tipping. After all, this
is not limited to menials. It is given, and unscrupulously accepted by all grades of society,
and by all conditions of men. I have known a company director give to a titled nobody a berth
promised to someone else, because he had been familiarly addressed by His Lordship in a public
place, and had been "honoured" by a few minutes' conversation. That was not, of course, a tip
in the ordinary sense of the word, but it amounted, however, to the same thing. It secured
a good berth to his "Excellency." And what say you of the whiskies and waters, brandies and
sodas, the champagne, oysters, luncheons, and dinners to which our good city men generously
ask a would-be customer? That, I suppose, is called "paving the way to a good business." I
have not unfrequently heard people regret that they were unable to refuse a favour in return
for a civility. That civility was most likely a dinner, or even something less. Kisses distributed
by ladies in hotly-contested constituencies, the promise of a Government post, an invitation
to a party, a mere familiar recognition, a penny, are all varieties which make the thing so
general.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: He believes the custom will die out with human nature.]

