"

"But who is the Shining One?" demanded the young man, wonderingly.

"Listen!"

Deep under the crackling of the flames vibrated the diapason of the great dynamo. Piers Minor
turned pale.

"He speaks," whispered the girl. "And now look, look!"

A little distance away stood one of the ancient telegraph-poles carrying a tangled mass of
wire ends. The pole had been swaying dangerously in the rising gale; now with a loud crack
it broke off close to the ground and fell so that the wires were brought into naked contact
with a copper cable suspended on the opposite side of the street. Instantly the "dead" wires
awoke to life, spluttering and hissing like a bunch of snakes; a cataract of yellow-blue sparks
poured from the broken ends.

"The tongues of fire," said Nanna. "You may have seen them devour a single tree in the forest
or suck out a man's life with a touch, but to-night they are hungry and they are eating up
the world."

A terrifying conclusion that was not so far away from the truth. During the last few minutes
the area of the conflagration had increased tremendously and the whole central portion of the
city, including the Citadel Square, was now a vast furnace in which no life could possibly
exist. For the moment the general direction of the wind had shifted, and the flames were not
bearing down so rapidly as before upon the two fugitives. They would be in comparative safety
for some time yet unless the gale veered back to its former quarter.

"We can never get through to the north," said Piers Minor.

"There is no necessity," returned Nanna. "I know of a wharf on the Lesser river where the shad-fishers
keep their boats. We can reach it from here in a quarter of an hour."

"Good," said Piers Minor, and waited for her to lead the way. Then, as she still held back,
he went on, impatiently, "The wind may change at any moment, and it is foolish to wait."

"It is my sister," explained the girl. "She is here in the city--a prisoner----" Her voice
shook and failed her.

"But what can we do?" asked the young man. "You do not even know--in Quinton Edge's house,
you say? But that is a mile or more away, and the road is already blocked. It is impossible."

"Yes, I know, but suppose there should be a chance--the hand that has moved the Shining One
to strike, may it not be lifted again to repair the evil?"

"I do not understand," said Piers Minor.

And thereupon Nanna described as clearly as she could the part that Prosper, the priest, had
played in the impending tragedy. Surely he might be prevailed upon to avert the judgment from
the innocent. He who had released the flames could as easily restrain them. Or, at least, Arcadia
House might be spared.

"But where are we to find him?"

Nanna pointed down the street. "There--in the House of Power."

"Come," he said, and they went on quickly.

At the entrance to the temple of the Shining One they stopped and listened. The air was all
tremulous with the hum of the rapidly revolving dynamos, the thud of the reciprocating machinery,
and the grinding of the badly lubricated shafting.

Piers Minor knew that he was horribly afraid, but for very shame he could not hold back. Together
they stole a little way within the vaulted entrance and listened again. Nothing but the roar
of the machinery. The vast hall would have been in utter darkness save for the glare of the
conflagration; as it was, they could see clearly that there was nobody within.

"The little room beyond," said Nanna, and shivered. These were forbidden sights for a woman's
eyes, and the god would be very angry. Yet it must be done. They joined hands like two children
and went forward.

Now they stood, wondering, within the little room with its low ceiling and bare white walls.
Could it be that so great a god as the Shining One could dwell here? An empty room, save for
the oak chair standing in the middle of the floor and that curious-appearing board fixed against
the wall, with its multiplicity of keys, knobs, and levers. That was all, and yet a vague terror
laid its hand upon them; they remained motionless and speechless.

Something, some one had entered the room--slow footsteps and the rustle of trailing garments.
Then the sound of a lever snapped to its connecting points, and the great, shining face flamed
out of the darkness. In his intense absorption, the old priest saw nothing of the two who also
waited there. Advancing to the centre of the room, he stood and looked upon the countenance
of the Shining One, while a man might count twoscore. Then he spoke, slowly and hesitatingly,
as one who excuses himself of grievous fault:

"Let the Shining One be content--it is accomplished. And now, O father, have mercy. For the
sins of thy people--a sacrifice----"

With unfaltering step he walked to the great chair and seated himself. Then, in a clear voice,
"Lord--if indeed thou art lord----" There was the click of a switch-key; the man's body half
rose from its seat and sank back again.

Piers Minor felt the girl's dead weight thrown suddenly upon him. "Nanna!" he cried, and she
responded bravely, fighting with all her strength against the inflowing tide of faintness.
One forward step, taken with infinite precaution, and then another. The stillness remained
unbroken.

The great chair stood with its back towards them, and they could not see the seated figure.
But Piers Minor caught one glimpse of a hand gripped hard upon the chair arm, and he saw that
it was burned hard and black as a coal. Now the door was within reach and they passed out.
In the little room, Prosper, the priest, sat upon the knees of the Shining One, and the great,
white face looked down upon him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Not an instant too soon had Piers Minor and Nanna reached the open street. The wind had shifted
back to the northwest, and the fire, breaking out in one place after another from the gale-scattered
brands, was coming down upon them in great bounds, as though it were some gigantic beast of
prey. A suffocating smoke choked their throats and nostrils; they could neither speak nor breathe.
Then, by the mercy of God, a fierce counter-current drove the smoke back a little way; they
ran at full speed towards the south-east. Now they stopped an instant to refill their panting
lungs, then on again, for the air about them was full of flying sparks that stung the unprotected
flesh and even burned holes in their clothing of stout woollen. On and on, till their heads
felt light as a child's toy balloon and the blood in their ears pounded like a mill-wheel.
Piers Minor stumbled and fell.

"I am blind," he gasped. "Leave me." But Nanna would not give over, tugging at the man's weight
until she had him to his feet again, with a convenient railing at his back. She picked up some
water from the gutter with her hands held cup-wise, and dashed the liquid in his face. Piers
Minor straightened up, and from his eyes the darkness cleared away.

"Courage!" she said, and he smiled back at her.

There was the shining of the river; now they could see the pier and the boats of the shad-fishers
lying alongside. Piers Minor cast off the largest and most seaworthy-looking of the lot, and,
without troubling to bail out the standing water, he brought the craft broadside to the wharf
and held out his hand to Nanna. But she, looking to the northward, where the gilded cupola
of Arcadia House shone out against the sky, neither moved nor spoke.

"Come," he said.

The girl turned. "She is there," she said, and pointed to the north. "I must go to her--my
little sister."

Piers Minor swung himself up on the wharf and seized her.

"You shall not," he said.

She tried to wrench herself free; she struck him full in the face. But Piers Minor only smiled
grimly and held on the tighter. And then, to his astonishment, this tiger-cat became suddenly
metamorphosed into a dove. Her breast heaved, and she turned her head away; he knew that she
was weeping just like any other woman. Whereat Piers Minor smiled again, but not grimly, and
held her a little closer.

"Listen," he said, and forced her gently to look at him. "It is impossible to reach Arcadia
House; even now the fire is there before you. You must believe that Constans received the message
and was able to get there in time. Believe it, because it is I who tell you."

She did believe, but, being a woman, she hesitated again--at the very brink of surrender.

"Let me go," she said, in a low tone, and Piers Minor was so astonished that he immediately
complied, and stood looking at her helplessly. But when, coloring like a rose and with downcast
eyes, she would have passed him, the masculine instinct of possession awoke again; he barred
the way determinedly.

A little distance away an enormous brick storehouse was burning fiercely. A tremendous explosion
threw a roof bodily into the air; a shower of incandescent particles descended and drove directly
at the fugitives. Nanna felt herself lifted bodily off her feet and swept with a rush down
the wharf. One little gulp of regret for her lost independence and she yielded--deliciously.
The boat rocked from side to side, then it shot out upon the open river.

Piers Minor had stopped rowing, for the sparks no longer fell about them. The spectacle of
the burning city was a magnificent one. The inverted bowl of the sky shone as though it were
made of copper, and the gale had flattened out the flames horizontally so that they resembled
the flying masses of a woman's unbound hair.

Nanna's eyes filled with tears.

"It was my world," she said, softly, "the only one I knew."

"Nanna!" said Piers Minor. She let her hand rest in his, and the boat floated on.

XXVIII

IN THE FULNESS OF TIME

The streets were as light as noonday, and Constans found no difficulty in keeping the dying
figure in sight. But, run as he would, he could not gain a yard.

"Arcadia House," muttered Constans, under his breath, as he noticed the direction taken by
the runner. What more natural than that a man should seek his own home at such a time? But
Constans's brow was clouded as he followed in Quinton Edge's footsteps.

Arcadia House, and why? There could be but one answer to that question after Nanna's message,
conveyed to him through Ulick's dying lips. Esmay had disappeared, and yet had remained in
Arcadia House. He, who knew Quinton Edge, would understand.

Constans told himself grimly that he did understand. This insolent wanted the girl, just as
he had desired many another thing in life, and it had always been his way to take what he coveted.
But this time--Constans set his teeth hard, and now, at last, Arcadia House was in sight.

During this last quarter of an hour the progress of the conflagration had been perceptibly
slower, and the great sheaf of flame in the western sky had almost disappeared. It was like
the lull that so often takes place in a storm, a period of sudden quiet in the element strife
that should warn the prudent that the worst is still to come. To Constans it was the most fortunate
of happenings, the comparative darkness enabling him to keep close upon Quinton Edge without
risk of discovery.

As though satisfied that he had arrived in time, Quinton Edge now slackened his pace, making
for the gateway on the side street. Whereupon Constans determined to scale the wall at the
rear and take the short cut through the garden, so as to intercept the Doomsman at the entrance.
Once over the wall, the way was clear. Disdaining caution, he crashed recklessly through the
shrubbery, the wet and tangled grass wrapping itself exasperatingly about his ankles as he
ran. At the carriage-drive he stopped, flinging himself full length on the ground and close
against the wall that marked the sunken way. The run had winded him, and he was thankful for
the moment's breathing-space.

From where Constans lay he could command sight of the north terrace that connected the porticos
of the river and western fronts. Suddenly it seemed to him that the terrace was occupied by
some living thing. A moment before he had noticed a darker blur in the shadows at the river
corner; it had appeared to move. He heard a soft padding on the flag-stones as of an animal
moving cautiously. He strained his eyes, striving to resolve that dusky blotch into shape intelligible;
then a new burst of flame lit up the western sky and he saw clearly--it was Fangs, the hound.

The dog stood motionless, her head thrown upward as though listening. She could not possibly
see Constans where he lay, but the smallest noise must betray him.

His revolver was in a side pocket, and he drew it forth with infinite care. Then he discovered
that it was unloaded and that he had no more cartridges. His knife also had disappeared from
its sheath; he realized that he was absolutely unarmed and helpless.

The hound leaped lightly from the terrace and began ranging in great half-circles. Constans
looked on with fascinated eyes. It could be a matter of seconds only when she must cross his
scent, and he knew that she would remember it--there was a blood-feud between them--the death
of Blazer, who had been her mate.

The pass-key rattled in the lock of the postern-door, and Quinton Edge entered the sunken way.
Fangs heard the noise, hesitated a moment, then tossed her black muzzle in the air and bounded
forward to meet her master. Constans wiped away the sweat that was blinding his eyes and waited.
Quinton Edge, with the hound by his side, went up the steps leading to the terrace.

Some one came forward to meet him--a slim, womanish figure dressed in white. Constans's heart
gave a great bound, for who but Esmay carried her small head with so irresistible a grace.
She held out her hands as Quinton Edge reached her side, but he crushed her into his arms and
kissed her on the lips. They walked slowly along the terrace, turned the corner of the eastern
portico, and disappeared. Constans, running up, was just an instant too late; he heard Quinton
Edge calling the dog inside, then the sound of the closing door.

By a supreme exercise of will Constans stopped short of the insanity that impelled him to thunder
on the barrier and demand admittance. Yet he must gain instant entrance to the house, and he
ran around the terrace to the river portico. As he had expected, the hall-door was fastened,
but he had no difficulty in forcing one of the long windows of the drawing-room; he stepped
into the dark and empty room and stood listening.

There was perfect silence everywhere, but he could not trust to it--eyes and ears might be
in waiting at every turn, and, above all, there was the dog. He wondered that the hound had
not already detected his presence in the house, and his pulse thumped at the thought; he fancied
that he could hear deep breathing and the oncoming of padded feet.

The minutes passed, and the silence remained unbroken. Then the sense of his cowardice smote
him; the jaws of the brute would be preferable to this intolerable inaction, and he went forward
through the half-opened door and into the main hall.

This, too, was empty, and, having windows that faced the west, it was sufficiently well lighted
by the conflagration to make the fact of its desertion certain. And Constans owed it to the
friendly flames that he was once more provided with a weapon. There was a rapier hanging upon
the wall, slender and yet strong, of very ancient make; in an instant he had it down and was
trying the temper of its blade upon the hearthstone.

The touch of the cold steel was like a tonic; heart and blood responded immediately. Its discovery
had been a fortunate chance, for again the illumination in the west died down the final pianissimo
before the full crash of the orchestra--and the darkness returned deeper than before.

Constans, with the rapier held shortened in his hand, found his way to the staircase and began
the ascent. At the turn of the second landing he stopped, feeling instinctively that there
was something in the way. When he could bear no longer to wait and listen, he put his hand
down and felt beneath it the smooth, hairy coat of the hound's body. The dog was quite dead,
and lying in a pool of her own blood; there was a warm, sickly smell of salt in the air, and
Constans's hand was wet when he fetched it away. Who had done this thing, and why?

He went on, with every sense on edge. He could hardly have mistaken his way now, for the door
before him stood partly ajar, and there was a light in the room; Constans guessed that it must
be the first of the private apartments belonging to Quinton Edge.

He looked in. The room was a large one and luxuriously furnished. An ancient hanging-lamp of
brass hung from the ceiling, diffusing a soft radiance; the curtains that concealed the deep
window-seat were closely drawn, and, had Constans made his observations with more care, he
might have noticed that something moved behind them, an unwieldy bulk that gathered itself
as though for a spring.

But he took no account of these smaller things, his eyes being full of Esmay only, and surely
that was she who stood there in the shelter of Quinton Edge's arms; now she half turned her
head, the better to look into her lord's face, and Constans could trace the outline of her
profile--the upper lip, so deliciously short, and the exquisite curve of her throat. His breath
came quick as he watched them, and his grasp tightened upon the rapier hilt. So she had deceived
him, after all; she had played the traitress from the very beginning. Twice, now, she had smiled
into his eyes and sold him for some piece of trumpery--a bracelet of carbuncles or a kiss from
Quinton Edge's lips. Well, he could kill them both, and almost at a single stroke, since they
stood with their backs to the doorway and were quite unconscious of his presence. But, upon
further thought, he determined to wreak positive vengeance on Quinton Edge alone. It was shame
to strike a woman, and unnecessary--it would be her punishment to live.

Dispassionately he reviewed his decision and reaffirmed it; it was now the time for action.
But he had delayed just a moment too long. Before he could take that first forward step the
one who waited behind the window-curtains had passed before him, an ungainly figure of a man,
who limped upon one knee and whose black beard fell like a curtain before his cruel mouth and
lips--Kurt, whom men called the "Knacker." A knife was in his hand, and he struck once and
twice at Quinton Edge.

"This for the thirty lashes at Middenmass!" he shouted; "and this----"

But here Constans's rapier passed through his throat, and he fell back, gurgling horribly and
tearing at his windpipe.

It had all happened so quickly that the two living men could only stare alternately at each
other and at the burden that lay in Quinton Edge's arms. A slim, white figure, with that red
stain upon her breast--spreading, spreading.

Constans gathered himself with a mighty effort. "Let me help you," he said, and between them
they carried her over to the couch and laid her down. On a near-by table stood a ewer of water;
Constans fetched it and began moistening the bloodless lips. They parted with a little sigh,
and then the eyes of his sister Issa opened upon him. "Little brother," she whispered, and smiled.

Constans looked over at Quinton Edge, but he shook his head and stood back among the shadows.

"Little brother," said Issa again, and put out a wavering hand.

XXIX

DEATH AND LIFE

It had been very quiet in the room for a long time. Constans had tried to make the dying woman
more comfortable, but every attempt to move her had only resulted in the wound breaking out
afresh. It was cruelty to persist, and so he gave it over, waiting for what must come.

Now it seemed that Issa slept, for her eyes were closed and the lines of pain had wholly disappeared
from the smooth, white brow. Quinton Edge kept his place at the back, where he could see and
not be seen; a statue could not have been more immobile. Constans, kneeling by the couch, still
held his sister's hand in his, keeping watch upon the pulse that fluttered so delicately. Once
or twice the heavy eyes had opened and she had smiled up at him--contentedly as a child resting
after the long day's play.

Constans had not attempted to speak; his mind was still seeking its wonted bearings, and he
was afraid. His sister Issa!--the little Issa with whom he had played at fox-chase and grace-hoops.
Issa!--the maiden who had gathered her May-bloom in the long ago, and who had given herself
and all for love of the stranger within her father's gates; yes, and who had died within that
self-same hour upon her lord's breast.

And yet if this miracle were indeed the truth it accounted for more than one thing that had
troubled him. He remembered now the white-robed figure that had appeared to him in the gardens
of Arcadia House and the superstitious terror with which he had watched it following upon the
unconscious footsteps of the girl Esmay. Then, again, the fair-haired woman who only a few
minutes ago had come to meet Quinton Edge on the north terrace, an apparition so ravishing
that Constans must needs confound it with the flesh-and-blood presentment of his own dear lady.

She was speaking now, almost fretfully. "Is the night never to be gone? The hangings at the
window are so heavy. And where is my father?"

Constans rose and went to the window, intent on flinging it wide open. But Quinton Edge was
there before him and stayed his hand.

"No," he said, and Constans obeyed, being greatly troubled in mind and uncertain of himself,
even as one who wanders in a maze. This Quinton Edge must have perceived, for he spoke gently,
making it plain to him that this was, indeed, the maid whom they had both loved and not some
disembodied shadow from the underworld. And having come finally to believe this, Constans was
comforted and desired to hear the matter in full. "Tell me," he said, and Quinton Edge went on:

"It was weeks and weeks that she lay weak and speechless upon a pallet of dried fern, her only
shelter the thatch of a mountain sheepfold.

"There was no one among us who had any knowledge of surgery, and so I had to be content with
simples--cold-water compresses for the wound and a tea made from the blossoms of the camomile
flower to subdue the fever in the blood. So the days dragged by until the turn for the better
came. Little by little I nursed her back to life again, and in time we came safely to Doom.

"Arcadia House was a secure hiding-place for my treasure, and during all these years no one
has even guessed at the secret. I had no need to trust my servants, for they knew nothing;
the walls had neither eyes nor ears, and I kept my own counsel. Until to-day no man's eye but
mine has looked upon her face.

"But even yet you do not wholly understand. Have you forgotten, then, that the body may be
in health and yet the soul be darkened? She had come back to life, indeed, but it was the life
of a butterfly in the sun, unconscious of aught else than the light and warmth that surrounds
it. For her the past had been sealed; to me the future. Do you understand now? A woman grown
and yet as a new-born babe in heart and mind. What was there for me to do but to bear my punishment
as patiently as I might, the cup of love ever at my lips, but never to be tasted."

Constans kept silence for a little space. When he spoke it was haltingly.

"Then you think--you think----"

"She recognized you. Could you not see it--that note in her voice as of one who wakes from
a long sleep? That was why I stopped you from throwing aside the window-curtains. The light
of the burning city--it might have brought back the memory of that night at the keep."

"And for the same reason you have kept yourself out of sight," said Constans, coldly.

The man trembled. "Yes; I am afraid," he answered, and Constans, for all his bitterness of
heart, was fain to pity him.

A series of muffled explosions startled them. Quinton Edge moved softly towards the outer door.
"The fire must be coming nearer," he whispered. "I will make sure of our position and return
within a few minutes. Hush! she is sleeping again."

But when Constans went and stood by the couch, Issa was looking at him with wide-opened eyes.

"Constans--little brother," she said, weakly, and yet with an infinite content. He dropped
to his knees beside her and tried to answer, but could not.

"Surely it must be close to morning now," she went on, slowly. "I can hear the doves cooing
on the tiles, the wind is blowing over the water-meadows, and the lark is in the blue--ah,
God! how beautiful this dear world of ours! It is the May-time, little brother, and the arbutus
will be in bloom--the shy, pink blossoms that nestle on the sunny slopes of the rocks and at
the roots of the birch-trees. We will gather them--you and I--and bring them home to deck our
lady mother's chamber. The May-bloom--it is in the air. How sweet--how sweet!"

Constans, following the look in her eyes, saw a low table standing against the opposite wall.
Upon it was a bowl filled with the delicate arbutus--fresh and fragrant as though but lately
gathered. He went softly across the room and despoiled the bowl of a spray. She took it from
him eagerly. Then the violet eyes clouded.

"I cannot remember--it must be that I am still so tired--it is strange. The morning--it cannot
be far distant--now----"

Quinton Edge at the threshold held up a beckoning finger, and Constans went to him.

"It is upon us," said the Doomsman. "The out-buildings are smoking already, and the lumber-yard
on the north will become a furnace the instant that the first spark falls there. There is but
one chance--the river. You will find a boat at the dock. The girl Esmay--ah, you could think
that, too, of me. Yet it was natural enough."

Constans would have spoken, but the words tripped on his tongue. Quinton Edge interrupted him
imperiously.

"She is there," he said, and pointed to a door leading to the interior apartments of the suite.
"I could not leave Issa entirely alone on this last night. So I brought the girl here--for
once, she trusted me. For once, you can do likewise."

Constans bowed his head. "But Issa," he said, thickly.

"She would be dead in our arms before we reached the stairs," returned the other. "Can you
not leave her to me for just this little while longer?" His voice hardened savagely. "She is
mine, do you hear--mine, mine. I have paid the price, double and treble, and now I take what
is my own."

His voice rang like a trumpet in the narrow room. And yet, straight through its clamor, pierced
the sound of a stifled cry. Constans turned instantly, but Quinton Edge, trembling, kept his
eyes fixed on the floor.

Sitting upright upon the couch, Issa looked at the two men steadfastly, and then only at the
one. The violet depths in her eyes had darkened to pools of midnight, and her lips were like
a thread of scarlet against the ivory of her face. A miracle! but Constans would not look again,
knowing that for him this hour had passed forever.

Constans went to the inner door and opened it. Esmay was kneeling at the window; he went over
and touched her on the shoulder. "Come," he said. She looked up at him, and he saw that her
face whitened for all of the glare from the flaming sky that fell upon it. Yet she let him
lead her, unresisting, into the other room, where Quinton Edge still stood motionless and looked
upon the floor. Constans plucked at his sleeve, drawing him out into the full circle of the
lamp-light. Face to face for the last time, and, though no word was said, each knew that there
was peace between them.

"Go to her," whispered Constans, and pushed him gently towards the couch.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now the room had fallen into semi-darkness, for the oil had failed in the lamp, and there was
only that dull-red line along the edge of the window-curtains. And there was silence, too,
for all that words could say had been said already.

       *       *       *       *       *

The minutes passed, but the man had ceased to count them. The hand that lay in his was growing
cold, but the knowledge had ceased to concern him; the brain no longer registered the messages
sent by the nerves, and he was conscious only of an immense weariness, of an overwhelming desire
to sleep. The maiden Issa's hair lay within the hollow of his arm, a pool of rippled gold;
it was like looking down into an enchanted well; the waters seem to rise and meet him. The
glow at the curtain-edge grew stronger; now it was a lake of liquid fire into which he gazed.

       *       *       *       *       *

The threshold of the door had warped and sprung, and through the crack crept a thin line of
smoke; it raised itself sinuously, as does a snake; it darted its head from side to side, preparing
to strike.

       *       *       *       *       *

Descending the staircase, Constans saw that the time was growing perilously short. On three
sides of them the buildings were burning, and Arcadia House itself was on fire at the southern
wing. The hurricane, shifting back to the northwest, was at its wildest, and the air was full
of ashes and incandescent sparks. As Constans and Esmay emerged from the shelter of the house,
it seemed as though the universe itself was on fire. Could they ever hope to reach the river?
His heart sank as he looked at that fiery rain through which they must pass. He turned to Esmay.

"It is the only way," he began, and then stopped, wondering that she should look so strangely
upon him.

"I thought you dead," she answered, humbly. "It was the last thing I heard--the silver whistle
and Nanna misunderstood my question."

"Oh," said Constans, enlightened, and at the same time subtly warned that he must not press
her too far. "So you feared that it might have been my spirit that came to fetch you?"

"No; not feared," she answered, and with such sweet confidence that Constans's heart thrilled
to new courage. By God's splendor! this woman trusted him and he would save her.

Half way to the boat-stage they were caught in a whirlwind of choking vapor; they struggled
onward for a few steps, and then the girl fell. With infinite difficulty Constans half carried,
half dragged her down the last slope to the landing. The boat, a small canoe or dugout, was
there, but he could find only one broken paddle. It was a mad thing to venture out upon the
wind-lashed river with equipment so imperfect, but there could be no choice of another way.

The tide was running out strongly and Constans could do nothing more than keep the craft on
a straight course and out of the trough of the heavier seas. He looked longingly at the opposite
shore, so near to the eye and so impossible to attain against that wind and tide; he realized
that they were drifting down into the open bay, and that would be the end. Yet he would fight
for it, and now that the fresh air had aroused Esmay from her swoon, she crept to his side
and sat there comforting him.

Four hours later the keel grated on a pebbly shingle, and Constans, looking about him with
weary eyes, recognized the little bay, with its fringing semicircle of trees. Here was the
very log upon which he had sat and dreamed of unutterable things that bright May morning in
the long ago, a dream from which he had awakened to make first acquaintance with Quinton Edge.

A little way up the grassy glade a fire was burning, and there was the savory odor of roasted
meat in the air. Constans helped Esmay out of the boat, and with stiffened limbs they dragged
themselves up the forest way. There was a little shriek, a rush of feet, and swishing skirts,
and Nanna's arms were about her sister, while Constans was looking into Piers Minor's honest eyes.

Far in the north, a smoke as of a furnace ascended, and the sky was darkened. But here the
sun shone brightly, the grass was green underfoot, the birds sang in the branches above their
heads, and the smell of the spring-tide was in the air. Truly, life and light are sweet to
him who has once walked in the shadow.

XXX

THE STAR IN THE EAST

It was in October of the same year that Constans and Esmay stood one day in the court-yard
of the Greenwood Keep, now restored and rebuilt.

His father's blood friends had helped generously in the rehabilitation of his fortunes, and
Constans had worked hard with his own hands. Now the task was finished, and he had persuaded
Esmay to ride over from the River Barony and pronounce in person upon its merits. For let it
be known that Piers Minor had lost no time in bringing home his bride, and both he and Nanna
had insisted that Esmay must live with them. And Esmay had accepted gratefully, for all that
she was an heiress in her own right, through inheritance of her uncle Hugolin's estate, and
could have bought and sold Piers Minor and Nanna, and all their holdings, ten times over. But
all of her red gold could not buy love, and Esmay was wise enough to know this. Moreover, the
River Barony was but twenty miles distant from the Greenwood Keep, and at least twice every
week Constans rode over and spent the night. It was pleasant to hear him tell proudly of the
progress of the work; how yesterday the roofing of the guard-house had been started, and how
to-day they had turned for the first time the waters of the Ochre brook into the moat. Esmay
always listened attentively, and it pleased her to think that Constans looked at her when he
talked, even though his actual words might be addressed to Piers Minor or to Nanna. Listening
always, but speaking seldom, for she felt that he was waiting purposely until some milestone
of achievement had been passed, and she feared that he might consider her unwomanly. So the
summer had gone, the great work was accomplished, and now they were viewing it together. They
had seen everything, going in turn from lighting platform to calving-barn; from forge and smithy
to my lady's bower. And Esmay had duly admired all and pronounced it good.

Now they were standing in the great hall watching the martins as they circled around the red-capped
gatehouse, and the white doves cooing in the eaves. A silence had fallen between them, and
Constans, leaning against the window-casement, seemed to have forgotten of Esmay's very existence.
Quietly she drew aside and left him, impelled by an irresistible desire to know if he would
notice her absence and would follow her. Hardly had she stolen five steps away than she heard
him start, and then turn to seek her. A sheer delight coursed through her veins, and she began
to run.

