Your nice young girl, of good family and good breeding, is always a pretty object, and, for
my part, I regularly lose my heart (in a sort of figurative way) to every fresh, charming creature
that trips across my path. All their mysterious rattletraps and whirligigs,--their curls and
networks and crimples and rimples and crisping-pins,--their little absurdities, if you will,--have
to me a sort of charm, like the tricks and stammerings of a curly-headed child. I should have
made a very poor censor if I had been put in Cato's place: the witches would have thrown all
my wisdom into some private chip-basket of their own, and walked off with it in triumph. Never
a girl bows to me that I do not see in her eye a twinkle of confidence that she could, if she
chose, make an old fool of me. I surrender at discretion on first sight.

Jenny's friends are nice girls,--the flowers of good, staid, sensible families,--not heathen
blossoms nursed in the hot-bed heat of wild, high-flying, fashionable society. They have been
duly and truly taught and brought up, by good mothers and painstaking aunties, to understand
in their infancy that handsome is that handsome does; that little girls must not be vain of
their pretty red shoes and nice curls, and must remember that it is better to be good than
to be handsome; with all other wholesome truisms of the kind. They have been to school, and
had their minds improved in all modern ways,--have calculated eclipses, and read Virgil, Schiller,
and La Fontaine, and understand all about the geological strata, and the different systems
of metaphysics,--so that a person reading the list of their acquirements might be a little
appalled at the prospect of entering into conversation with them. For all these reasons I listened
quite indulgently to the animated conversation that was going on about--Well!

What do girls generally talk about, when a knot of them get together? Not, I believe, about
the sources of the Nile, or the precession of the equinoxes, or the nature of the human understanding,
or Dante, or Shakespeare, or Milton, although they have learned all about them in school; but
upon a theme much nearer and dearer,--the one all-pervading feminine topic ever since Eve started
the first toilet of fig-leaves; and as I caught now and then a phrase of their chatter, I jotted
it down in pure amusement, giving to each charming speaker the name of the bird under whose
colors she was sailing.

"For my part," said little Humming-Bird, "I'm quite worn out with sewing; the fashions are
all so different from what they were last year, that everything has to be made over."

"Isn't it dreadful!" said Pheasant. "There's my new mauve silk dress! it was a very expensive
silk, and I haven't worn it more than three or four times, and it really looks quite dowdy;
and I can't get Patterson to do it over for me for this party. Well, really, I shall have to
give up company because I have nothing to wear."

"Who does set the fashions, I wonder," said Humming-Bird; "they seem nowadays to whirl faster
and faster, till really they don't leave one time for anything."

"Yes," said Dove, "I haven't a moment for reading, or drawing, or keeping up my music. The
fact is, nowadays, to keep one's self properly dressed is all one can do. If I were grande
dame now, and had only to send an order to my milliner and dressmaker, I might be beautifully
dressed all the time without giving much thought to it myself; and that is what I should like.
But this constant planning about one's toilet, changing your buttons and your fringes and your
bonnet-trimmings and your hats every other day, and then being behindhand! It is really too
fatiguing."

