"Is it so near the break of day?" Mahommed yawned. "Tell me"--he fixed his eyes darkly on the
visitor--"tell me first why thou art here?"

"I will, my Lord, and truly. I wished to see if you could sleep. A common soul could not. It
is well the world has no premonitory sense."

"Why so?"

"My Lord has all the qualities of a conqueror."

Mahommed was pleased.

"Yes, I will make a great day of to-morrow. But, Prince of India, what shadows are disturbing
thee? Why art thou not asleep?"

"I too have a part in the day, my Lord."

"What part?"

"I will fight, and"--

Mahommed interrupted him with a laugh.

"Thou!" and he looked the stooped figure over from head to foot.

"My Lord has two hands--I have four--I will show them."

Returning to his apartment, the Prince reappeared with Nilo.

"Behold, my Lord!"

The black was in the martial attire of a king of Kash-Cush--feathered coronet, robe of blue
and red hanging from shoulder to heel, body under the robe naked to the waist, assegai in the
oft-wrapped white sash, skirt to the knees glittering with crescents and buttons of silver,
sandals beaded with pearls. On his left arm depended a shield rimmed and embossed with brass;
in his right hand he bore a club knotted, and of weight to fell a bull at a blow. Without the
slightest abashment, but rather as a superior, the King looked down at the young Sultan.

"I see--I understand--I welcome the four hands of the Prince of India," Mahommed said, vivaciously;
then, giving a few moments of admiration to the negro, he turned, and asked:

"Prince, I have a motive for to-morrow--nay, by the cool waters of Paradise, I have many motives.
Tell me thine. In thy speech and action I have observed a hate for these Greeks deep as the
Shintan's for God. Why? What have they done to thee?"

"They are Christians," the Jew returned, sullenly.

"That is good, Prince, very good--even the Prophet judged it a justification for cleaning the
earth of the detestable sect--yet it is not enough. I am not old as thou"--Mahommed lost the
curious gleam which shone in the visitor's eyes--"I am not old as thou art; still I know hate
like thine must be from a private grievance."

"My Lord is right. To-morrow I will leave the herd to the herd. In the currents of the fight
I will hunt but one enemy--Constantine. Judge thou my cause."

Then he told of Lael--of his love for her--of her abduction by Demedes--his supplication for
the Emperor's assistance--the refusal.

"She was the child of my soul," he continued, passionately. "My interest in life was going
out; she reinspired it. She was the promise of a future for me, as the morning star is of a
gladsome day. I dreamed dreams of her, and upon her love builded hopes, like shining castles
on high hills. Yet it was not enough that the Greek refused me his power to discover and restore
her. She is now in restraint, and set apart to become the wife of a Christian--a Christian
priest--may the fiends juggle for his ghost!--To-morrow I will punish the tyrant--I will give
him a dog's death, and then seek her. Oh! I will find her--I will find her--and by the light
there is in love, I will show him what all of hell there can be in one man's hate!"

For once the cunning of the Prince overreached itself. In the rush of passion he forgot the
exquisite sensory gifts of the potentate with whom he was dealing; and Mahommed, observant
even while shrinking from the malignant fire in the large eyes, discerned incoherencies in
the tale, and that it was but half told; and while he was resolving to push his Messenger of
the Stars to a full confession, a distant rumble invaded the tent, accompanied by a trample
of feet outside.

"It is here, Prince of India--the day of Destiny. Let us get ready, thou for thy revenge, I
for glory and"--Irene was on his tongue, but he suppressed the name. "Call my chamberlain and
equerry.... On the table there thou mayst see my arms--a mace my ancestor Ilderim [Footnote:
Bajazet.] bore at Nicopolis, and thy sword of Solomon.... God is great, and the Jinn and the
Stars on my side, what have we to fear?"

Within half an hour he rode out of the tent.

"Blows the wind to the city or from it?" he asked his chief Aga of Janissaries.

"Toward the city, my Lord."

"Exalted be the name of the Prophet! Set the Flower of the Faithful in order--a column of front
wide as the breach in the gate--and bring the heralds. I shall be by the great gun."

Pushing his horse on the parapet, he beheld the space before him, down quite to the moat--every
trace of the cemetery had disappeared--dark with hordes assembled and awaiting the signal.
Satisfied, happy, he looked then toward the east. None better than he knew the stars appointed
to go before the sun--their names were familiar to him--now they were his friends. At last
a violet corona infinitely soft glimmered along the hill tops beyond Scutari.

"Stand out now," he cried to the five in their tabards of gold--"stand out now, and as ye hope
couches in Paradise, blow--blow the stones out of their beds yonder--God was never so great!"

Then ensued the general advance which has been described, except that here, in front of St.
Romain, there was no covering the assailants with slingers and archers. The fill in the ditch
was nearly level with the outer bank, from which it may be described as an ascending causeway.
This advantage encouraged the idea of pouring the hordesmen en masse over the hill composed
of the ruins of what had been the towers of the gate.

There was an impulsive dash under incitement of a mighty drumming and trumpeting--a race, every
man of the thousands engaged in it making for the causeway--a jam--a mob paralyzed by its numbers.
They trampled on each other--they fought, and in the rebound were pitched in heaps down the
perpendicular revetment on the right and left of the fill. Of those thus unfortunate the most
remained where they fell, alive, perhaps, but none the less an increasing dump of pikes, shields,
and crushed bodies; and in the roar above them, cries for help, groans, and prayers were alike
unheard and unnoticed.

All this Justiniani had foreseen. Behind loose stones on top of the hill, he had collected
culverins, making, in modern phrase, a masked battery, and trained the pieces to sweep the
causeway; with them, as a support, he mixed archers and pikemen. On either flank, moreover,
he stationed companies similarly armed, extending them to the unbroken wall, so there was not
a space in the breach undefended.

The Captain, on watch and expectant, heard the signal.

"To the Emperor at Blacherne," he bade; "and say the storm is about to break. Make haste."
Then to his men: "Light the matches, and be ready to throw the stones down."

The hordesmen reached the edge of the ditch; that moment the guns were unmasked, and the Genoese
leader shouted:

"Fire, my men!--Christ and Holy Church!"

Then from the Christian works it was bullet, bolt, stone, and shaft, making light of flimsy
shield and surcoat of hide; still the hordesmen pushed on, a river breasting an obstruction.
Now they were on the causeway. Useless facing about--behind them an advancing wall--on both
sides the ditch. Useless lying down--that was to be smothered in bloody mire. Forward, forward,
or die. What though the causeway was packed with dead and wounded?--though there was no foothold
not slippery?--though the smell of hot blood filled every nostril?--though hands thrice strengthened
by despair grappled the feet making stepping blocks of face and breast? The living pressed
on leaping, stumbling, staggering; their howl, "Gold--spoils--women--slaves," answered from
the smoking hill, "Christ and Holy Church."

And now, the causeway crossed, the leading assailants gain the foot of the rough ascent. No
time to catch breath--none to look for advantage-- none to profit by a glance at the preparation
to receive them--up they must go, and up they went. Arrows and javelins pierce them; stones
crush them; the culverins spout fire in their faces, and, lifting them off their uncertain
footing, hurl them bodily back upon the heads and shields of their comrades. Along the brow
of the rocky hill a mound of bodies arises wondrous quick, an obstacle to the warders of the
pass who would shoot, and to the hordesmen a barrier.

Slowly the corona on the Scutarian hills deepened into dawn. The Emperor joined Justiniani.
Count Corti came with him. There was an affectionate greeting.

"Your Majesty, the day is scarcely full born, yet see how Islam is rueing it."

Constantine, following Justiniani's pointing, peered once through the smoke; then the necessity
of the moment caught him, and, taking post between guns, he plied his long lance upon the wretches
climbing the rising mound, some without shields, some weaponless, most of them incapable of combat.

With the brightening of day the mound grew in height and width, until at length the Christians
sallied out upon it to meet the enemy still pouring on.

An hour thus.

Suddenly, seized with a comprehension of the futility of their effort, the hordesmen turned,
and rushed from the hill and the causeway.

The Christians suffered but few casualties; yet they would have gladly rested. Then, from the
wall above the breach, whence he had used his bow, Count Corti descended hastily.

"Your Majesty," he said, his countenance kindled with enthusiasm, "the Janissaries are making
ready."

Justiniani was prompt. "Come!" he shouted. "Come every one! We must have clear range for the
guns. Down with these dead! Down with the living. No time for pity!"

Setting the example, presently the defenders were tossing the bodies of their enemies down
the face of the hill.

On his horse, by the great gun, Mahommed had observed the assault, listening while the night
yet lingered. Occasionally a courier rode to him with news from this Pacha or that one. He
heard without excitement, and returned invariably the same reply:

"Tell him to pour the hordes in."

At last an officer came at speed.

"Oh, my Lord, I salute you. The city is won."

It was clear day then, yet a light not of the morning sparkled in Mahommed's eyes. Stooping
in his saddle, he asked: "What sayest thou? Tell me of it, but beware--if thou speakest falsely,
neither God nor Prophet shall save thee from impalement to the roots of thy tongue."

"As I have to tell my Lord what I saw with my own eyes, I am not afraid.... My Lord knows that
where the palace of Blacherne begins on the south there is an angle in the wall. There, while
our people were feigning an assault to amuse the Greeks, they came upon a sunken gate"--

"The Cercoporta--I have heard of it."

"My Lord has the name. Trying it, they found it unfastened and unguarded, and, pushing through
a darkened passage, discovered they were in the Palace. Mounting to the upper floor, they attacked
the unbelievers. The fighting goes on. From room to room the Christians resist. They are now
cut off, and in a little time the quarter will be in our possession."

Mahommed spoke to Kalil: "Take this man, and keep him safely. If he has spoken truly, great
shall be his reward; if falsely, better he were not his mother's son." Then to one of his household:
"Come hither.... Go to the sunken gate Cercoporta, pass in, and find the chief now fighting
in the palace of Blacherne. Tell him I, Mahommed, require that he leave the Palace to such
as may follow him, and march and attack the defenders of this gate, St. Romain, in the rear.
He shall not stop to plunder. I give him one hour in which to do my bidding. Ride thou now
as if a falcon led thee. For Allah and life!"

Next he called his Aga of Janissaries.

"Have the hordes before this gate retired. They have served their turn; they have made the
ditch passable, and the Gabours are faint with killing them. Observe, and when the road is
cleared let go with the Flower of the Faithful. A province to the first through; and this the
battle-cry: Allah-il-Allah! They will fight under my eye. Minutes are worth kingdoms. Go thou,
and let go."

Always in reserve, always the last resort in doubtful battle, always the arm with which the
Sultans struck the finishing blow, the Janissaries thus summoned to take up the assault were
in discipline, spirit, and splendor of appearance the elite corps of the martial world.

Riding to the front, the Aga halted to communicate Mahommed's orders. Down the columns the
speech was passed.

The Flower of the Faithful were in three divisions dismounted. Throwing off their clumsy gowns,
they stood forth in glittering mail, and shaking their brassy shields in air, shouted the old
salute: "Live the Padishah! Live the Padishah!"

The road to the gate was cleared; then the Aga galloped back, and when abreast of the yellow
flag of the first division, he cried: "Allah-il-Allah! Forward!"

And drum and trumpet breaking forth, a division moved down in column of fifties. Slowly at
first, but solidly, and with a vast stateliness it moved. So at Pharsalia marched the legion
Caesar loved--so in decision of heady fights strode the Old Guard of the world's last Conqueror.

Approaching the ditch, the fresh assailants set up the appointed battle-cry, and quickening
the step to double time rushed over the terrible causeway.

Mahommed then descended to the ditch, and remained there mounted, the sword of Solomon in his
hand, the mace of Ilderim at his saddle bow; and though hearing him was impossible, the Faithful
took fire from his fire--enough that they were under his eye.

The feat attempted by the hordes was then repeated, except now there was order in disorder.
The machine, though shaken and disarranged, kept working on, working up. Somehow its weight
endured. Slowly, with all its drench and cumber, the hill was surmounted. Again a mound arose
in front of the battery--again the sally, and the deadly ply of pikes from the top of the mound.

The Emperor's lance splintered; he fought with a pole-axe; still even he became sensible of
a whelming pressure. In the gorge, the smoke, loaded with lime-dust, dragged rather than lifted;
no man saw down it to the causeway; yet the ascending din and clamor, possessed of the smiting
power of a gust of wind, told of an endless array coming.

There was not time to take account of time; but at last a Turkish shield appeared over the
ghastly rampart, glimmering as the moon glimmers through thick vapor. Thrusts in scores were
made at it, yet it arose; then a Janissary sprang up on the heap, singing like a muezzin, and
shearing off the heads of pikes as reapers shear green rye. He was a giant in stature and strength.
Both Genoese and Greeks were disposed to give him way. The Emperor rallied them. Still the
Turk held his footing, and other Turks were climbing to his support. Now it looked as if the
crisis were come, now as if the breach were lost.

In the last second a cry For Christ and Irene rang through the melee, and Count Corti, leaping
from a gun, confronted the Turk.

"Ho, Son of Ouloubad! Hassan, Hassan!" [Footnote: One of the Janissaries, Hassan d'Ouloubad,
of gigantic stature and prodigious strength, mounted to the assault under cover of his shield,
his cimeter in the right hand. He reached the rampart with thirty of his companions. Nineteen
of them were cast down, and Hassan himself fell struck by a stone.--VON HAMMER.] he shouted,
in the familiar tongue.

"Who calls me?" the giant asked, lowering his shield, and gazing about in surprise.

