A difficulty exasperated by the insult that, in a moment of bitter disappointment, he had flung
in Baudichon's face. That hasty word had revealed to the speaker a lack of self-control that
terrified him, even as it had revealed to Baudichon a glimpse of something underneath the Fourth
Syndic's dry exterior that might well set a man thinking as well as talking. This matter Blondel
saw plainly he must deal with at once, or it might do harm. To absent himself from the next
day's council might rouse a storm beyond his power to weather, or short of that might give
rise at a later period to a dangerous amount of gossip and conjecture.

He was early at the meeting, therefore, but to his surprise found it in session before the
hour. This, and the fact that the hubbub of voices and discussion died down at his entrance--died
down and was succeeded by a chilling silence--put him on his guard. He had not come unprepared
for opposition; to meet it he had wound himself to a pitch, telling himself that after this
all would be easy; that he had this one peril to face, this one obstacle to surmount, and having
succeeded might rest. Nevertheless, as he passed up the Great Council Chamber amid that silence,
and met strange looks on faces which were wont to smile, his courage for one moment, even in
that familiar scene--conscience makes cowards of all--wavered. His smile grew sickly, his nerves
seemed suddenly unstrung, his knees shook under him. It was a dreadful instant of physical
weakness, of mental terror, under the eyes of all. To himself, he seemed to stand still; to
be self-betrayed, self-convicted!

Then--and so brief was the moment of weakness no eye detected it--he moved on to his place,
and with his usual coolness took his seat. He looked round.

"You are early," he said, ignoring the glances, hostile or doubtful, that met his gaze. "The
hour has barely struck, I believe?"

"We were of opinion," Fabri answered, with a dry cough, "that minutes were of value."

"Ah!"

"That not even one must be lost, Messer Blondel!"

"In doing?" Blondel asked in a negligent tone, well calculated to annoy those who were eager
in the matter. "In doing what, if I may ask?"

"In doing, Messer Syndic," Petitot answered sharply, "that which should have been done a week
ago; and better still a fortnight ago. In issuing a warrant for the arrest of the person whose
name has been several times in question here."

"Messer Basterga?"

"The same."

"You may save yourselves the trouble," the Syndic replied, with a little contempt. "The warrant
has been issued. It was issued yesterday, and would have been executed in the afternoon, if
he had not got wind of it, and left the town. And on this let me say one more word," Blondel
continued, leaning forward and speaking in sudden heat, before any one could take up the question.
"That word is this. If it had not been for the importunity of some who are here, the warrant
had not been issued, the man had still been within the walls, and we had been able still to
trace his plans! We had not been as we now are, and as I foretold we should be, in the dark,
ignorant from which quarter the blow may fall, and not a whit the wiser for the hint given us."

"You have let him escape!" The words were Petitot's.

"I? No! I have not let him escape, but those who forced my hand!" Blondel retorted in passion,
so real, or so well simulated, that it swept away the majority of his listeners. "They have
let him escape! Those who had no patience or craft! Those whose only notion of statesmanship,
whose only method of making use of the document we had under our hand was to tear it up. Only
yesterday morning I was with him----"

"Ay?" Baudichon cried, his eyes glowing with dull passion. "You were with him! And he went
in the afternoon! Mark that!" He turned quickly to his fellows. "He went in the afternoon!
Now, I would like to know----"

Blondel stood up. "Whether I am a traitor?" he said, in a tone of fury; and he extended his
arms in protest. "Whether I am in league with this Italian, I, Philibert Blondel of Geneva?
That is what you ask, what you wish to know! Whether I sought him yesterday in the hope of
worming his secrets from him, and doing what I could for the benefit of the State in a matter
too delicate to be left to underlings? Or went there, one with him, to betray my country? To
sell the Free City? That--that is what you ask?"

His passion was full, overpowering, convincing; so convincing--it almost stopped his speech--that
he believed in it himself, so convincing that it swept away all but his steady and professed
opponents. "No, no!" cried a dozen voices, in tones that reflected his indignation. "No, no!
Shame!"

"No?" Blondel took up the word, his eyes sparkling, his adust complexion heated and full of
fire. "But it is--yes, they say! Yes, they say whom you have to thank if we have lost our clue,
they who met me going to him but yesterday and threatened me! Threatened me!" he repeated,
in a voice of astonishment. "Me, who desired only, sought only, was going only to do my duty!
I used, I admit the fault," he allowed his voice to drop to a tone more like his own, "words
on that occasion that I now regret. But is blood water? Does no man besides Councillor Baudichon
love his country? Is the suspicion, the open suspicion of such an one, no insult, that he must
cavil if he be repaid in insult? I have given my proofs. If any man can be trusted to sound
the enemy, it is I! But I have done! Had Messer Baudichon not pressed me to issue the warrant,
not driven me beyond my patience, it had not been issued yesterday. It had been in the office,
and the man within the walls! Ay, and not only within the walls, but fresh from a conference
with the Sieur d'Albigny, primed with all we need to know, and in doubt by which side he could
most profit!"

"It was about that you saw him?" Petitot said slowly, his eyes fixed like gimlets to the other's
face.

"It was about that I saw him," Blondel answered. "And I think in a few hours more I had won
him. But in the street he had some secret word or warning; for when I handed the warrant--against
my better sense--to the officers, they, who had never lost sight of him between gate and gate,
answered that he had crossed the bridge and left the town an hour before. Mon Dieu!"--he struck
his two hands together and snapped his teeth--"when I think how foolish I was to be over-ridden,
I could--I could say more, Messer Baudichon"--with a saturnine look--"than I said yesterday!"

"At any rate the bird is flown!" Baudichon replied, with sullen temper. "That is certain! And
it was you who were set to catch him!"

"But it was not I who scared him," Blondel rejoined.

"I don't know what you would have had of him!"

"Oh, I see that plainly enough," said Fabri. He was an honest man, without prejudice, and long
the peace-maker between the two parties.

"I thank you," Blondel replied dryly. "But, by your leave, I will make it clear to Messer Baudichon
also, who will doubtless like to know. I would have had of him the time and place and circumstance
of the attack, if such be in preparation. And then, when I knew all, I would have made dispositions,
not only to safeguard the city, but to give the enemy such a reception that Italy should ring
with it! Ay, and such as should put an end for the rest of our lives to these treacherous attacks!"

The picture which he drew thus briefly of a millennium of safety, charmed not only his own
adherents, but all who were neutral, all who wavered. They saw how easily the thing might have
been done, how completely the treacherous blow might have been parried and returned. Veering
about they eyed Baudichon, on whom the odium of the lost opportunity seemed to rest, with resentment--as
an honest man, but a simpleton, a dullard, a block! And when Blondel added, after a pause,
"But there, I have done! The office of Fourth Syndic I leave to you to fill," they barely allowed
him to finish.

"No! No!" came from almost all mouths, and from every part of the council table.

"No," Fabri said, when silence was made. "There is no provision for a change, unless a definite
accusation be laid."

"But Messer Baudichon may have one to make," Blondel said proudly. "In that case, let him speak."

Baudichon breathed hard, and seemed to be on the point of pouring forth a torrent of words.
But he said nothing. Instinct told him that his enemy was not to be trusted, but he had the
wit to discern that Blondel had forestalled him, and had drawn the sting from his charges.
He could have wept in dull, honest indignation; but for accusations, he saw that the other
held the game, and he was silent. "Fat hog!" the man had called him. "Fat hog!" A tear gathered
slowly in his eye as he recalled it.

Fabri gave him time to speak; and then with evident relief, "He has none to make, I am sure,"
he said.

"Let him understand, then," Blondel replied firmly, "let all understand, that while I will
do my duty I am no longer in the position to guard against sudden strokes, in which I should
have been, had I been allowed to go my own way. If a misfortune happen, it is not on me the
blame must rest." He spoke solemnly, laughing in his sleeve at the cleverness with which he
was turning his enemy's petard against him. "All that man can do in the dark shall be done,"
he continued. "And I do not--I am free to confess that--anticipate anything while the negotiations
with the President Rochette are in progress."

"No, it is when they are broken off, they will fall back on the other plan," one of the councillors
said with an air of much wisdom.

"I think that is so. Nor do I think that anything will be done during the present severe weather."

"They like it no better than we do!"

"But the roads are good in this frost," Fabri said. "If it be a question of moving guns or
wagons----"

"But it is not, by your leave, Messer Fabri, as I am informed," the man who had spoken before
objected; supporting his opinion simply because he had voiced it, a thing seen every day in
such assemblies. Fabri replied on him in the other sense: and presently Blondel had the satisfaction
of listening to a discussion in which the one party said a dozen things that he saw would be
of use to him--some day.

One only said not a word, and that was Petitot. He listened to all with a puzzled look. He
resented the insult which Blondel had flung at his friend Baudichon, but he saw all going against
them, and no chance of redress; nay, capital was being made out of that which should have been
a disadvantage. Worst of all, he was uneasy, fancying--he was very shrewd--that he caught a
glimpse, under the Fourth Syndic's manner, of another man: that he detected signs of emotion,
a feverishness and imperiousness not quite explained by the circumstances.

He got the notion from this that the Fourth Syndic had learned more from Basterga than he had
disclosed. His notion, even so, went no further than the suspicion that Blondel was hiding
knowledge out of a desire to reap all the glory. But he did not like it. "He was always for
risking, for risking!" he thought. "This is another case of it. God grant it go well!" His
wife, his children, his daughters, rose in a picture before him, and he hated Blondel, who
had none of these. He would have put him to death for running the tithe of a risk.

When the council broke up, Fabri drew Blondel aside. "The bird is flown, but what of the nest?"
he asked. "Has he left nothing?"

"Between you and me," Blondel replied under his breath, as his eyes sought the other's, "I
hope to make him speak yet. But not a word!"

"Ah!"

"Not a word! But there is just a chance. And it will be everything to us if I can induce him
to speak."

"I see that. But the house? Could you not search it?"

"That would be to scare him finally."

"You have made no perquisition there?"

"None. I have heard," Blondel continued, hesitating as if he had not quite made up his mind
to speak, "some things--strange things in respect to the house. But I will tell you more of
that when I know more."

He was too clever to state that he held the house in suspicion for sorcery and kindred things.
Charges such as that spread, he knew, upwards from the lower classes, not downwards to them.
The poison, disseminated as he had known how to disseminate it, by hints and innuendoes dropped
among his officers and ushers, was already in the air, and would do its work. Fabri, a man
of sense, might laugh to-day, and to-morrow; but the third day, when the report came to him
from a dozen quarters, mainly by women's mouths, he would not laugh. And presently he would
shrug his shoulders and stand aside, and leave the matter in more earnest hands.

Blondel dropped no more than that hint, therefore, and as he passed homeward applauded his
discretion. He was proud of the turn things had taken at the Council; elated by the part he
had played, and the proof he had given of his mastery, he felt able to carry anything through.
His mind, leaping over the immediate future, pictured a wider theatre, in which his powers
would have full scope, and a larger stage on which he might aspire to play the first part.
He saw himself not only wealthy, but ennobled, the fount of honour, the favourite, and, in
time, the master of princes. Such as he was to-day the Medicis had been, and many another whom
the world held noble. He had but to live and to dare; only to live and to dare! Only in order
to do the one he must--it was no choice of his--do the other!

Before he was five minutes older he was reminded of the necessity. At the door of his house
the pains of the disease from which he suffered--aggravated, perhaps, by the excitement through
which he had just passed, or by the cold of the weather--seized him with unusual violence.
He leant, pale and almost fainting, against the door-jamb, unable at the moment to do so much
as raise the latch. The golden dreams in which he had lost himself by the way, the visions
of power and fame, vanished as he had so many times seen the after-glow vanish from the snow-peaks;
leaving only cold images of death and desolation. Presently, with an effort, he staggered within
doors, poured out such medicine as he had, and, bent double and almost without breath, swallowed
it; and so, by-and-by, a wan and wild-eyed image of himself came out of the fit.

He told himself in after days that it was that decided him; that but for that sharp fit of
pain and the prospect of others like it, he would not have yielded to the temptation, no, not
to be the Grand Duke's favourite, not to be Minister of Savoy! He ignored, in his looking backward,
the visions of glory and ambition in which he had revelled. He saw himself on the rack, with
life and immunity from pain drawing him one way, the prospect of a miserable death the other;
and he pleaded that no man would have decided otherwise. After that experience the straw did
not float, so thin that he was not ready to grasp it rather than die, rather than suffer again.
Nor did the fact that the straw at that moment lay on the table beside him go for much.

It did lie there. When he felt a little stronger and began to look about him, he found a note
at his elbow. It was a small, common-looking letter, sealed with a B, that might signify Blondel
or Basterga, or, for the matter of that, Baudichon. He did not know the handwriting, and he
opened it idly, in the scorn of small things that pain induced.

He had not read a line of the contents, before his countenance changed. The letter was from
Basterga, and cunningly contrived. It gave him the directions he needed, yet it was so worded
that even after the event it might pass for a trifling communication from a physician. The
place and the hour were specified--the latter so near that for a moment his cheek grew pale.
On that ensued the part which interested him most; but as the whole was brief, the whole may
be given.

    "Sir" (here followed a cabalistic sign such as physicians were in the
    habit of using to impose on the vulgar). "After paying a visit in the
    Corraterie, where I have an appointment on Saturday evening next
    between late and early, I will be with you. But the mixture with the
    necessary directions shall be sent to you twelve hours in advance, so
    that before my visit you may experience its good effects. As surely as
    the wrong potion in the case you wot of deprived of reason, so surely
    (as I hope for salvation) will this potion have the desired effect.

    "The Physician of Aleppo."

"Saturday next, between late and early!" Blondel muttered, gazing at the words with fascinated
eyes. "It is for the day after to-morrow! The day after to-morrow!" And in his thoughts he
passed again over the road he had travelled since his first visit to Basterga's room, since
the hour when the scholar had unrolled before him the map of the town he called "Aurelia,"
and had told him the story of Ibn Jasher and the Physician of Aleppo.

"No, I am not well," he answered. He sat, warmly wrapped up, in the high chair in his parlour,
his face so drawn with want of sleep that Captain Blandano of the city guard, who had come
to take his orders, had no difficulty in believing him. "I am not well," he repeated peevishly.
"It is the weather." He had some soup before him. Beside it stood a tiny phial of medicine;
a phial strangely shaped and strange looking, containing something not unlike the green cordial
of the Carthusians.

"It troubles me a good deal, too," Blandano said. "There are seven men absent in the fourth
ward. And two men, whose wives are urgent with me that they should have leave."

"Leave?" the Syndic cried. "Do they think naught"--leaning forward in a passion--"of the safety
of the city? If I were not ill, I would take service on the wall myself to set an example!"

"There is no need of that," the Captain answered respectfully, "if I might have permission
to withdraw a few men from the west side so as to fill the places on the east----"

"Ay, ay!"

"From the Rhone side of the town----"

"From the Corraterie? That is least open to assault."

"Yes, from that part perhaps would be best," Blandano assented, nodding. "Yes, I think so.
If I might do that, I think I could manage."

"Well, then do it," Blondel answered. "And make a note that I assented to your suggestion to
take them from the Corraterie and put them on the lower part of the wall. After all, the nights
are very bitter now, and there are limits. Do the men grumble much?"

"It is as much as I can do to make them go the rounds," Blandano answered. "Some plead the
weather; and some argue that, with President Rochette, whose word is as good as his bond, on
the point of coming to an agreement with us, the rounds are a farce!"

The Syndic shrugged his shoulders. "Well!" he muttered, rubbing his chin and looking thoughtfully
before him, "we must not wear the men out. There is no moon now, is there?"

"No."

"And the enemy can attempt nothing without light," Blondel continued, thinking aloud. "See
here, Blandano, we must not put too heavy a burden on our people. I see that. As it is so cold,
I think you may pass the word to pretermit the rounds to-night--save two. At what hours would
you suggest?"

Blandano considered his own comfort--as the other expected he would--and answered, "Early and
late, say an hour before midnight and an hour before dawn".

"Then let be it as you suggest. But see"--with returning asperity--"that those rounds go, and
at their hours. Let there be no remissness. I will make a note," he continued, "of the hours
fixed. An hour before midnight and an hour before dawn".

He extended his arm and drew the ink-horn towards him. Midway in the act, whether it was that
his hand shook by reason of his illness, or that he was in a hurry to close an interview which
tried him more severely than appeared, his sleeve caught the little phial of green water that
stood beside the soup on the table. It reeled an instant on its edge, toppled on its side,
and rolling, in one-tenth of the time it takes to tell the tale, to the verge of the table--fell
over.

Messer Blondel made a strange noise in his throat.

But the Captain had seen what was happening. Dexterously he caught the bottle in his huge palm,
and with an air of modest achievement was going to set it on the table, when he saw that the
Syndic had fallen back in his chair, his face ghastly. Blandano was more used to death in the
field than in the house; and in a panic he took two steps towards the door to call for help.
Before he could take a third, Blondel gasped, and made an uncertain movement with his hand,
as if he would reassure him.

Blandano returned and leant over him. "You are ill, Messer Syndic," he said anxiously. "Let
me call some one."

The Syndic could not speak, but he pointed to the table. And when Blandano, unable to make
out what he wanted, and suspecting a stroke of a mortal disease, turned again to the door,
persisting in his intention of getting aid, the Syndic found strength to seize his sleeve,
and almost instantly regained his speech. "There!" he gasped, "there! The phial! Put it down!"

Captain Blandano placed it on the table, wondering much. "I was afraid you were ill, Messer
Blondel," he said.

"I was ill," the Syndic answered; and he pushed his chair back so that no part of him was in
contact with the table. He looked at the little bottle with fascinated eyes, and slowly, as
he looked, the colour returned to his face. "I--was ill," he repeated, with a sigh that seemed
to relieve his breast. "I had a fright!"

"You thought it was broken?" Blandano said, wondering much, and looking in his turn at the phial.

"Yes, I thought that it was broken. I am much obliged to you. Much, very much obliged to you,"
the Syndic repeated, with a deep sigh, his hands still moving nervously about his dress. Then,
after a moment's pause, "Will you ring the bell?" he said.

The Captain, marvelling much, rang the hand-bell which lay on a neighbouring table. He marvelled
still more when he heard Messer Blondel order the servant to place six bottles of his best
wine in a basket and take them to the Captain's lodging.

Blandano stared. He knew the wine to be choice and valuable; and he eyed the tiny phial respectfully.
"It is something rare, I expect?" he said.

The Syndic nodded.

"And costly too, I doubt not?" with an admiring glance.

"Costly?" Messer Blondel repeated the word, and when he had done so turned on the other a look
that led the Captain to think that he was going to be ill again. Then, "It cost me--it will
cost me"--again a spasm contorted the Syndic's face--"I don't know what it will not have cost
me before it is paid for, Messer Blandano!"

CHAPTER XXII.

TWO NAILS IN THE WALL.

The long day during which the lovers had drained a cup at once so sweet and so bitter, and
one of the two had felt alike the throb of pain and the thrill of kisses, came to an end at
last; and without further incident. Encouraged by the respite--for who that is mortal does
not hope against hope--they ventured on the following morning to lower the shutters, and this
to a great extent restored the house to its normal aspect. Anne would have gone so far as to
attend the morning preaching at St. Pierre, for it was Friday; but her mother awoke low and
nervous, the girl dared not quit her side, and Claude had no field for the urgent dissuasions
which he had prepared himself to use.

The greater part of the day she remained above stairs, busied in the petty offices, and moving
to and fro--he could hear her tread--upon the errands of love, to see her in the midst of which
might well have confuted the slanders that crept abroad. But there were times in the day when
Madame Royaume slept; and then, who can blame Anne, if she stole down and sat hand in hand
with Claude on the settle, whispering sometimes of those things of which lovers whisper, and
will whisper to the world's end; but more often of the direr things before these two lovers,
and so of faith and hope and the love that does not die. For the most part it was she who talked.
She had so much to tell him of the long nightmare, the nightmare of months, that had oppressed
her; of her prayers, and fears and fits of terror; of Basterga's discovery of the secret and
the cruel use he had made of it; of the slow-growing resignation, the steadfast resolve, the
onward look to something, beyond that which the world could do to her, that had come to be
hers. With her face hidden on his breast she told him of her thoughts upon her knees, of the
pain and obloquy through which, if the worst came, she knew she must pass, and of her trust
that she would be able to bear them; speaking in such terms, so simply, so bravely, and with
so lofty a contemplation, that he who listened, and had been but a week before a young man
as other young men, grew as he listened to another stature, and thought for himself thoughts
that no man can have and remain as he was, before the tongues of fire touched his heart.

And then again, once--but that was in the darkening of the Friday evening when the wound in
her cheek burned and smarted and recalled the wretched moment of infliction--she showed him
another side; as if she would have him know that she was not all heroic. Without warning, she
broke down; overcome by the prospect of death, she clung to him, weeping and shuddering, and
begging him and imploring him to save her. To save her! Only to save her! At that sight and
at those sounds, under the despairing grasp of her arms about his neck, the young man's heart
was red-hot; his eyes burned. Vainly he held her closer and closer to him; vainly he tried
to comfort her. Vainly he shed tears of blood. He felt her writhe and shudder in his arms.

And what could he do? He strove to argue with her. He strove to show her that accusation of
her mother, condemnation of her mother, dreadful as they must be to her, so dreadful that he
scarcely dared speak of them, need not involve her own condemnation. She was young, of blameless
life, and without enemies. What could any cast up against her, what adduce in proof of a charge
so dark, so improbable, so abnormal?

For answer she touched the pulsing wound in her cheek.

"And this?" she said. "And the child that I killed?"--with a bitter laugh unlike her own. "If
they say so much already, if they say that to-day, what will they say to-morrow? What will
they say when they have heard her ravings? Will it not be, the old and the young, the witch
and her brood--to the fire? To the fire?"

The spasm that shook her as she spoke defied his efforts to soothe her. And how could he comfort
her? He knew the thing to be too likely, the argument too reasonable, as men reasoned then;
strange and foolish as their reasoning seems to us now. But what could he do. What? He who
sat there alone with her, a prisoner with her, witness to her agony, scalded by her tears,
tortured by her anguish, burning with pity, sorrow, indignation--what could he do to help her
or save her?

He had wild thoughts, but none of them effectual; the old thoughts of defending the house,
or of escaping by night over the town wall; and some new ones. He weighed the possibility of
Madame Royaume's death before the arrest; surely, then, he could save the girl, and they two,
young, active and of ordinary aspect, might escape some whither? Again, he thought of appealing
to Beza, the aged divine, whom Geneva revered and Calvinism placed second only to Calvin. He
was a Frenchman, a man of culture and of noble birth; he might stand above the common superstition,
he might listen, discern, defend. But, alas, he was so old as to be bed-ridden and almost childish.
It was improbable, nay, it was most unlikely, that he could be induced to interfere.

All these thoughts Anne drove out of his head by begging him, in moving terms of self-reproach,
to forgive her her weakness. She had regained her composure as abruptly, if not as completely,
as she had lost it; and would have had him believe that the passion he had witnessed was less
deep than it seemed, and rather a womanish need of tears than a proof of suffering. A minute
later she was quietly preparing the evening meal, while he, with a sick heart, raised the shutters
and lighted the lamp. As he looked up from the latter task, he found her eyes fixed upon him,
with a peculiar intentness: and for a while afterwards he remarked that she wore an absent
air. But she said nothing, and by-and-by, promising to return before bed-time, she went upstairs
to her mother.

The nights were at their longest, and the two had closed and lighted before five. Outside the
cold stillness of a winter night and a freezing sky settled down on Geneva; within, Claude
sat with sad eyes fixed on the smouldering fire. What could he do? What could he do? Wait and
see her innocence outraged, her tenderness racked, her gentle body given up to unspeakable
torments? The collapse which he had witnessed gave him as it were a foretaste, a bitter savour
of the trials to come. It did not seem to him that he could bear even the anticipation of them.
He rose, he sat down, he rose again, unable to endure the intolerable thought. He flung out
his arms; his eyes, cast upwards, called God to witness that it was too much! It was too much!

Some way of escape there must be. Heaven could not look down on, could not suffer such deeds
in a Christian land. But men and women, girls and young children had suffered these things;
had appealed and called Heaven to witness, and gone to death, and Heaven had not moved, nor
the angels descended! But it could not be in her case. Some way of escape there must be. There
must be.

Why should she not leave her mother to her fate? A fate that could not be evaded? Why need
she, whose capacity for suffering was so great, who had so much of life and love and all good
things before her, remain to share the pains of one whose span in any case was nearing its
end? Of one who had no longer power--or so it seemed--to meet the smallest shock, and must
succumb before she knew more of suffering than the name. One whom a rude word might almost
extinguish, and a rough push thrust out of life? Why remain, when to remain was to sacrifice
two lives in lieu of one, to give and get nothing, to die for a prejudice? Why remain, when
by remaining she could not save her mother, but, on the contrary, must inflict the sharpest
pang of all, since she destroyed the being who was dearest to her mother, the being whom her
mother would die to save?

He grew heated as he dwelt on it. Of what use to any, the feeble flickering light upstairs,
that must go out were it left for a moment untended? The light that would have gone out this
long time back had she not fostered it and cherished it and sheltered it in her bosom? Of what
avail that weak existence? Or, if it were of avail, why, for its sake, waste this other and
more precious life that still could not redeem it?

Why?

He must speak to her. He must persuade her, press her, convince her; carry her off by force
were it necessary. It was his duty, his clear call. He rose and walked the room in excitement,
as he thought of it. He had pity for the old, abandoned and left to suffer alone; and an enlightening
glimpse of the weight that the girl must carry through life by reason of this desertion. But
no doubt, no hesitation--he told himself--no scruple. To die that her mother might live was
one thing. To die--and so to die--merely that her mother's last hours might be sheltered and
comforted, was another, and a thing unreasonable.

He must speak to her. He would not hesitate to tell her what he thought.

But he did hesitate. When she descended half an hour later, and paused at the foot of the stairs
to assure herself that her passage downstairs had not roused her mother from sleep, the light
fell on her listening face and tender eyes; and he read that in them which checked the words
on his lips; that which, whether it were folly or wisdom--a wisdom higher than the serpent's,
more perfect than the most accurate calculation of values and chances--drove for ever from
his mind the thought that she would desert her charge. He said not a word of what he had thought;
the indignant reasoning, the hot, conclusive arguments fell from him and left him bare. With
her hands in his, seeking no more to move her or convince her, he sat silent; and by mute looks
and dumb love--more potent than eloquence or oratory--strove to support and console her.

She, too, was silent. Stillness had fallen on both of them. But her hands clung to his, and
now and again pressed them convulsively; and now and again, too, she would lift her eyes to
his, and gaze at him with a pathetic intentness, as if she would stamp his likeness on her
brain. But when he returned the look, and tried to read her meaning in her eyes, she smiled.
"You are afraid of me?" she whispered. "No, I shall not be weak again."

But even as she reassured him he detected a flicker of pain in her eyes, he felt that her hands
were cold; and but that he feared to shake her composure he would not have rested content with
her answer.

This sudden silence, this new way of looking at him, were the only things that perplexed him.
In all else, silent as they sat, their communion was perfect. It was in the mind of each that
the women might be arrested on the morrow; in the mind of each that this was their last evening
together, the last of few, yet not so few that they did not seem to the man and the girl to
bulk large in their lives. On that hearth they had met, there she had proved to him what she
was, there he had spoken, there spent the clouded never-to-be-forgotten days of their troubled
courtship. No wonder that as they sat hand in hand, their hair almost mingling, their eyes
on the red glow of the smouldering log, and, not daring to look forward, looked back--no wonder
that their love grew to be something other than the common love of man and maid, something
higher and more beautiful, touched--as the hills are touched at sunset--by the evening glow
of parting and self-sacrifice.

Silent amid the silence of the house; living moments never to be forgotten; welcoming together
the twin companions, love and death.

But from the darkest outlook of the mind, as of the eye, morning dispels some shadows; into
the most depressing atmosphere daylight brings hope, brings actuality, brings at least the
need to be doing. Claude's heart, as he slipped from his couch on the settle next morning,
and admitted the light and turned the log and stirred the embers, was sad and full of foreboding.
But as the room, its disorder abated, took on a more pleasant aspect, as the fire crackled
and blazed on the hearth, and the flush of sunrise spread over the east, he grew--he could
not but grow, for he was young--more cheerful also. He swept the floor and filled the kettle
and let in the air; and had done almost all he knew how to do, before he heard Anne's foot
upon the stairs.

She had slept little and looked pale and haggard; almost more pale and wan than he had ever
seen her look. And this must have sunk his heart to zero, if a certain item in her aspect had
not at the same time diverted his attention. "You are not going out?" he cried in astonishment.
She wore her hood.

"I am not going to defend myself again," she answered, smiling sadly. "Have no fear. I shall
not repeat that mistake. I am only going----"

"You are not going anywhere!" he answered firmly.

She shook her head with the same wan smile. "We must live," she said.

"Well?"

"And to live must have water."

"I have filled the kettle."

"And emptied the water-pot," she retorted.

"True," he said. "But surely it will be time to refill it when we want it."

"I shall attract less attention now," she answered quietly, "than later in the day. There are
few abroad. I will draw my hood about my face, and no one will heed me."

He laughed in tender derision. "You will not go!" he said. "Did you think that I would let
you run a risk rather than fetch the water from the conduit."

"You will go?"

"Where is the pot?"

He fetched the jar from its place under the stairs, snatched up his cap, and turning the key
in the lock was in the act of passing out when she seized his arm. "Kiss me," she murmured.
She lifted her face to his, her eyes half closed.

He drew her to him, but her lips were cold; and as he released her she sank passively from
his embrace, and was near falling. He hesitated. "You are not afraid to be left?" he said.
"You are sure?"

"I am afraid of nothing if I know you safe," she answered faintly. "Go! go quickly, and God
be with you!"

"Tut! I run no danger," he rejoined. "I have a strong arm and they will leave me alone." He
thought that she was overwrought, that the strain was telling on her; his thoughts did not
go beyond that. "I shall be back in five minutes," he continued cheerfully. And he went, bidding
her lock the door behind him and open only at his knock.

He made the more haste for her fears, passed into the town through the Porte Tertasse, and
hastened to the conduit. The open space in front of the fountain, which a little later in the
day would be the favourite resort of gossips and idlers, was a desert; the bitter morning wind
saw to that. But about the fountain itself three or four women closely muffled were waiting
their turns to draw. One looked up, and, as he fancied, recognised him, for she nudged her
neighbour. And then first the one woman and then the other, looking askance, muttered something;
it might have been a prayer, or a charm, or a mere word of gossip. But he liked neither the
glance nor the action, nor the furtive, curious looks of the women; and as quickly as he could
he filled his pot and carried it away.

He had splashed his fingers, and the cold wind quickly numbed them. At the Tertasse Gate, where
the view commanding the river valley opened before him, he was glad to set down the vessel
and change hands. On his left, the watch at the Porte Neuve, the gate in the ramparts which
admitted from the country to the Corraterie--as the Tertasse admitted from the Corraterie to
the town proper--was being changed, and he paused an instant, gazing on the scene. Then remembering
himself, and the need of haste, he snatched up his jar and, turning to the right, hurried to
the steps before the Royaumes' door, swung up them and, with his eyes on the windows, set down
his burden.

He knocked gently, sure that she would not keep him waiting. But she did not come at once;
and by-and-by, seeing that a woman at an open door a little farther down the Corraterie was
watching him with scowling eyes--and that strange look, half fear, half loathing, which he
was growing to know--he knocked more loudly, and stamped to warm his feet.

Still, to his astonishment, she did not come; he waited, and waited, and she did not come.
He would have begun to feel alarmed for her, but, what with the cold and the early hour, the
place was deserted; no idle gazers such as a commotion leaves behind it were to be seen. The
wind, however, began to pierce his clothes; he had not brought his cloak, and he shivered.
He knocked more loudly.

Perhaps she had been called to her mother? That must be it. She had gone upstairs and could
not on the instant leave her charge. He clothed himself in reproaches; but they did not warm
him, and he was beginning to stamp his feet again when, happening to look down, he saw beside
the water-can and partly hidden by its bulge, a packet about the size of a letter, but a little
thicker. If he had not mounted the steps with his eyes on the windows, searching for her face,
he would have seen it at once, and spared himself these minutes of waiting. He took it up in
bewilderment, and turned it in his numbed hands; it was heavy, and from it, leaving only a
piece of paper in his grasp, his purse fell to the ground. More and more astonished, he picked
up the purse, and put it in his pocket. He looked at the window, but no one showed; then at
the paper in his hand. Inside the letter were three lines of writing.

His face fell as he read them. "I shall not admit you," they ran. "If you try to enter, you
will attract notice and destroy me. Go, and God bless and reward you. You cannot save me, and
to see you perish were a worse pang than the worst."

The words swam before his eyes. "I will beat down the door," he muttered, tears in his voice,
tears welling up in his heart and choking him. And he raised his hand. "I will----"

But he did nothing. "You will attract notice and destroy me." Ah, she had thought it out too
well. Too well, out of the wisdom of great love, she had known how to bridle him. He dared
not do anything that would direct notice to the house.

But desert her? Never; and after a moment's thought he drew off, his plans formed. As he retired,
when he had gone some yards from the door, he heard the window closed sharply behind him. He
looked back and saw his cloak lying on the ground. Tears rose again to his eyes, as he returned,
took it up, donned it, and with a last lingering look at the window, turned away. She would
think that he had taken her at her word; but no matter!

He walked along the Corraterie, and passing the four square watch-towers with pointed roofs
that stood at intervals along the wall, he came to the two projecting demilunes, or bastions,
that marked the angle where the ramparts met the Rhone; a point from which the wall descended
to the bridge. In one of these bastions he ensconced himself; and selecting a place whence
he could, without being seen, command the length of the Corraterie, he set himself to watch
the Royaumes' house. By-and-by he would go into the town and procure food, and, returning,
keep guard until nightfall. After dark, if the day passed without event, he would find his
way into the house by force or fraud. In a rapture of anticipation he pictured his entrance,
her reluctant joy, her tears and smiles, and fond reproaches. As he loved her, as he must love
her the more for the trick she had played him, she must love him the more for his return in
her teeth. And the next day was Sunday, when it was unlikely that any steps would be taken.
That whole day he would have with her, through it he would sit with her! A whole day without
fear? It seemed an age. He did not, he would not look beyond it!

He had not broken his fast, and hunger presently drove him into the town. But within half an
hour he was at his post again. A glance at the Royaumes' house showed him that nothing had
happened, and, resuming his seat in the deserted bastion, he began a watch that as long as
he lived stood clear in his memory of the past. The day was cold and bright, and frosty with
a nipping wind. Mont Blanc and the long range of snow-clad summits that flanked it rose dazzlingly
bright against the blue sky. The most distant object seemed near; the wavelets on the unfrozen
water of the lake gave to the surface, usually so blue, a rough, grey aspect. The breeze which
produced this appearance kept the ramparts clear of loiterers; and even those who were abroad
preferred the more sheltered streets, or went hurriedly about their business. The guards were
content to shiver in the guardrooms of the gate-towers, and if Claude blessed once the kind
afterthought which had dropped his cloak from the window, he blessed it a dozen times. Wrapt
in its thick folds, it was all he could do to hold his ground against the cold. Without it
he must have withdrawn or succumbed.

Through the morning he watched the house jealously, trembling at every movement which took
place at the Tertasse Gate; lest it herald the approach of the officers to arrest the women.
But nothing happened, and as the day wore on he grew more hopeful. He might, indeed, have begun
to think Anne over-timid and his fears unwarranted, if he had not seen, a little before sunset,
a thing which opened his eyes.

Two women and some children came out of a house not far from the bastion. They passed towards
the Tertasse Gate, and he watched them. Before they came to the Royaumes' house, the children
paused, flung their cloaks over their heads, and, thus protected, ran past the house. The women
followed, more slowly, but gave the house a wide berth, and each passed with a flap of her
hood held between her face and the windows; when they had gone by they exchanged signals of
abhorrence. The sight was no more than of a piece with the outrage on Anne; but, coming when
it did, coming when he was beginning to think that he had been mistaken, when he was beginning
to hope, it depressed Claude dismally.

For comfort he looked forward to the hour when it would be dark. "By hook or by crook," he
muttered, "I shall enter then."

He had barely finished the sentence, when he observed moving along the ramparts towards him
a figure he knew. It was Grio. There was nothing strange in the man's presence in that place,
for he was an idler and a sot; but Claude did not wish to meet him, and debated in his mind
whether he should retreat before the other came up. Pride said one thing, discretion another.
He wanted no fracas, and he was still hanging doubtful, measuring the distance between them,
when--away went his thoughts. What was Grio doing?

The Spaniard had come to a stand, and was leaning on the wall, looking idly into the fosse.
The posture would have been the most natural in the world on a warm day. On that day it caught
Claude's attention; and--was he mistaken, or were the hands that, under cover of Grio's cloak,
rested on the wall busy about something?

In any case he must make up his mind whether he moved or stayed. For Grio was coming on again.
Claude hesitated a moment. Then he determined to stay. The next he was glad he had so determined,
for Grio after strolling on in seeming carelessness to a point not twenty yards from him, and
well commanded from his seat, leant again on the wall, and seemed to be enjoying the view.
This time Claude was sure, from the movement of his shoulders, that his hands were employed.

"In what?" The young man asked himself the question; and noted that beside Grio's left heel
lay a piece of broken tile of a peculiar colour. The next moment he had an inspiration. He
drew up his feet on the seat, drew his cloak over his head and affected to be asleep. What
Grio, when he came upon him, thought of a man who chose to sleep in the open in such weather
he did not learn, for after standing a while--as Claude's ears told him--opposite the sleeper,
the Spaniard turned and walked back the way he had come. This time, and though he now had the
wind at his back, he walked briskly; as a man would walk in such weather, or as a man might
walk who had done his business.

Claude waited until his coarse, heavy figure had disappeared through the Porte Tertasse; nay,
he waited until the light began to fail. Then, while he could still pick out the red potsherd,
he approached the wall, leant over it, and, failing to detect anything with his eyes, passed
his fingers down the stones.

They alighted on a nail; a nail thrust lightly into the mortar below the coping stone. For
what purpose? His blood beginning to move more quickly Claude asked himself the question. To
support a rope? And so to enable some one to leave the town? The nail, barely pushed into the
mortar, would hardly support the weight of a dozen yards of twine.

Perhaps the nail was there by chance, and Grio had naught to do with it. He could settle that
doubt. In a few moments he had settled it. Under cover of the growing darkness, he walked to
the place at which he had seen Grio pause for the first time. A short search discovered a second
nail as lightly secured as the other. Had he not been careful it would have fallen beneath
his touch.

What did the nails there? Claude was not stupid, yet he was long in hitting on an explanation.
It was a fanciful, extravagant notion when he got it, but one that set his chilled blood running,
and his hands tingling, one that might mean much to himself and to others. It was unlikely,
it was improbable, it was out of the common; but it was an explanation. It was a mighty thing
to hang upon two weak nails; but such as it was--and he turned it over and over in his mind
before he dared entertain it--he could find no other. And presently, his eyes alight, his pulses
riotous, his foot dancing, he walked down the Corraterie--with scarce a look at the house which
had held his thoughts all day--and passed into the town. As he passed through the gateway he
hung an instant and cast an inquisitive eye into the guard-room of the Tertasse. It was nearly
empty. Two men sat drowsing before the fire, their boot-heels among the embers, a black jack
between them.

The fact weighed something in the balance of probabilities: and in growing excitement, Claude
hurried on, sought the cookshop at which he had broken his fast--a humble place, licensed for
the scholars--and ate his supper, not knowing what he ate, nor with whom he ate it. It was
only by chance that his ear caught, at a certain moment, a new tone in the goodwife's voice;
and that he looked up, and saw her greet her husband.

"Ay!" the man said, putting off his bandoleer, and answering the exclamation of surprise which
his entrance had evoked. "It's bed for me to-night. It's so cold they will send but half the
rounds."

"Whose order is that?" asked a scholar at Claude's table.

"Messer Blondel's."

"Shows his sense!" the goodwife cried roundly. "A good man, and knows when to watch and when
to ha' done!"

Claude said nothing, but he rose with burning cheeks, paid his share--it was seven o'clock--and,
passing out, made his way back. It should be said that in addition to the Tertasse Gate, two
lesser gates, the Treille on the one hand and the Monnaye on the other, led from the town proper
to the Corraterie; and this time he chose to go out by the Treille. Having ascertained that
the guard-room there also was almost denuded of men, he passed along the Corraterie to his
bastion, hugging the houses on his right, and giving the wall a wide berth. Although the cold
wind blew in his face he paused several times to listen, nor did he enter his bastion until
he had patiently made certain that it was untenanted.

The night was very dark: it was the night of December the 12th, old style, the longest and
deadest of the year. Far below him in the black abyss on which the wall looked down, a few
oil lamps marked the island and the town beyond the Rhone. Behind him, on his left, a glimmer
escaping here and there from the upper windows marked the line of the Corraterie, of which
the width is greatest at the end farthest from the river. Near the far extremity of the rampart
a bright light marked the Porte Neuve, distant about two hundred yards from his post, and about
seventy or eighty from the Porte Tertasse, the inner gate which corresponded with it. Straight
from him to the Porte Neuve ran the rampart a few feet high on the inner side, some thirty
feet high on the outer, but shrouded for the present in a black gloom that defied his keenest
vision.

He waited more than an hour, his ears on the alert. At the end of that time, he drew a deep
breath of relief. A step that might have been the step of a sentry pacing the rampart, and
now pausing, now moving on, began to approach him. It came on, paused, came on, paused--this
time close at hand. Two or three dull sounds followed, then the sharper noise of a falling
stone. Immediately the foot of the sentry, if sentry it was, began to retreat.

Claude drove his nails into the palms of his hands and waited, waited through an eternity,
waited until the retreating foot had almost reached, as he judged, the Porte Tertasse. Then
he stole out, groped his way to the wall, and passed his hand along the outer side until he
came to the nail. He found it. It had been made secure, and from it depended a thin string.

He set to work at once to draw up the string. There was a small weight attached to it, which
rose slowly until it reached his hand. It was a stone about as large as the fist, and of a
whitish colour.

CHAPTER XXIII.

IN TWO CHARACTERS.

After the wave, the trough of the wave; after action, passion. Not to sink a little after rising
to the pitch of self-sacrifice, not to shed, when the deed is done, some bitter tears of regret
and self-pity, were to be cast in a mould above the human.

When the cloak--dear garment!--had slipped from her hands and the head bent that its owner
might raise the cloak had passed from sight--when Anne had fled to the farther side of the
room, to the farther side of the settle, and had heard his step die away, she would have given
the world to see him again, to feel his arm about her, to hear the sound of his voice. The
tears streamed down her face; in vain she tried to stay them with her hands, in vain she chid
herself for her weakness. "It is for him! for him!" she moaned, and hid her face in her hands.
But words stay no tears; and on the hearth which his coming had changed for her, standing where
she had first seen him, where she had heard his first words of love, where she had tried him,
she wept bitter tears for him.

The storm died away at last--for after every storm falls a calm--but it left the empty house,
the empty heart, silence. Her mother? She had still her mother, and with lagging footsteps
she went upstairs to her. But she found her in a deep sleep, and she descended again, and going
to his room began to put together his few belongings, the clothes he had worn, the books he
had read; that if the house were entered they might not be lost to him. She buried her face
in his garments and kissed them, fondly, tenderly, passionately, lingering over the task, and
at last putting the things from her with reluctance. A knot of ribbon which she had seen him
wear in the neck of his shirt on holidays she took and hid in her bosom, and fetching a length
of her own ribbon she put it in place of the other. This she thought she could do without fear
of bringing suspicion on him, for he alone would discern the exchange. Would he notice it?
Would he weep when he found the ribbon as she wept now? And fondle it tenderly? At the thought
her tears gushed forth.

The day wore on. Supported by the knowledge that even a slight shock might cast her mother
into one of her fits, Anne hid her fears from her, though the effort was as the lifting of
a great weight. On the pretext that the light hurt the invalid's sight, she shaded the window,
and so hid the hollows under her eyes and the wan looks that must have betrayed the forced
nature of her cheerfulness. As a rule Madame Royaume's eyes, quickened by love, were keen;
but this day she slept much, and the night was fairly advanced when Anne, in the act of preparing
to lie down, turned and saw her mother sitting erect in the bed.

The old woman's eyes were strangely bright. Her face wore an intent expression which arrested
her daughter where she stood.

"Mother, what is it?" she cried.

"Listen!" Madame Royaume answered. "What is that?"

"I hear nothing," Anne said, hoping to soothe her. And she approached the bed.

"I hear much," her mother retorted. "Go! Go and see, child, what it is!" She pointed to the
door, but, before Anne could reach it, she raised her hand for silence. "They are crossing
the ditch," she muttered, her eyes dilated. "One, two, many, many of them! Many of them! They
are throwing down hurdles, and wattles, and crossing on them! And there is a priest with them----"

"Mother!"

"A priest!" Her voice dropped a little. "The ladders are black," she whispered. "Black ladders!
Ay, swathed in black cloth; and now they set them against the wall. The priest absolves them,
and they begin to mount. They are mounting! They are mounting now."

"Mother!" There was sharp pain in Anne's voice. Who does not know the heartache with which
it is seen that the mind of a loved one is wandering from us? And yet she was puzzled. She
dreaded one of those scenes in which her young strength was barely sufficient to control and
soothe the frail form before her. But they did not begin as a rule in this fashion; here, though
the mind wandered, was an absence of the wildness to which she had become inured. Here--and
yet as she listened, as she looked, now at her mother, now into the dimly lighted corners of
the room, where those dilated eyes seemed to see things unseen by her, black things, she found
this phase no less disquieting than the other.

"Hush!" Madame Royaume continued, heeding her daughter's interruption no farther than by that
word and an impatient movement of the hand. "A stone has fallen and struck one down. They raise
him, he is lifeless! No, he moves, he rises. They set other ladders against the wall. They
mount now by tens and twenties--and--it is growing dark--dark, child. Dark!" She seemed to
try to put away a curtain with her hands.

"Mother!" Anne cried, bending over the bed and taking her mother's hand. "Don't, dear! Don't!
You frighten me."

The old woman raised her hand for silence, and continued to gaze before her. Anne's arm was
round her; the girl marked with astonishment, almost with awe, how strongly and stiffly she
sat up. She marvelled still more when her mother murmured in the same tone, "I can see no more,"
sighed, and sank gently back. Anne bent over her. "I can--see no more," Madame Royaume repeated;
"I can----" She was asleep!

Anne bent over her, and after listening a while to her easy breathing, heaved a deep sigh of
relief. Her mother had been talking in her sleep; and she, Anne had alarmed herself for nothing.
Nevertheless, as she turned from the bed she looked nervously over her shoulder. The other's
wandering or dream, or what it was, had left a vague disquiet in her mind, and presently she
took the lamp and, opening the door, passed out, and, with her hands still on the latch, listened.

Suddenly her heart bounded, her startled eyes leapt upward to the ceiling. Close to her, above
her, she heard a sound.

It came from a trap-door that led to the tiles; a trap that even as her eyes reached it, lifted
itself with a rending sound. Save for the bedridden woman, Anne was alone in the house; and
for one instant it was a question whether she held her ground or fled shrieking into the room
she had left. For an instant; then the instinct to shield her mother won the day, and with
fascinated eyes she watched the legs of a man drop through the aperture, watched a body follow,
and--and at last a face!

Claude's face! But changed. Even while she sank gasping against the wall--for the surprise
was too much for her--even while he took the lamp from her shaking hand and supported her,
and relief and joy began to run like wine through her veins, she knew it. The forceful look,
the tightened lips, the eyes gleaming with determination--all were new to her. They gave him
an aspect so old, so strange, that when he had kissed her once she put him from her.

"What is it?" she said. "Oh, Claude! What is it? What has happened?"

Letting a smile appear--but such a smile as did not reassure her--he signed to her to go before
him downstairs. She complied; but at the foot of the first flight she stopped, unable to bear
the suspense longer. She turned to him again. "What is it?" she cried. "Something has happened?"

"Something is happening," he answered. His eyes shone, exultant. "But it is a matter for others!
We may be easy!"

"What is it?"

"The Savoyards are in Geneva."

She started incredulously. "In Geneva? Here?" she exclaimed. "The enemy?"

He nodded.

"Here? In Geneva?" she repeated. She could not have heard aright.

"Yes."

But she still looked at him; she could not reconcile his words with his manner. This, the greatest
calamity that could happen, this which she had been brought up to fear as the worst and most
awful of catastrophes--could he talk of it, could he announce it after this fashion? With a
smile, in a tone of pleasantry? He must be playing with her. She passed her hand over her eyes,
and tried to be calm. "But all is quiet?" she said.

"All is quiet now," he answered. "After midnight the trouble will begin."

Still she could not understand him. His face said one thing, his voice another. Besides, the
town was quiet: no sound of riot or disturbance, no clash of steel, no tramp of feet penetrated
the walls. And the house stood on the ramparts where the first alarm must be given. "Do you
mean," she asked at last, her eyes fixed steadfastly on him, "that they are going to attack
the town after midnight?"

"They are here now," he replied, shrugging his shoulders. "They scaled the wall after the guard
had gone round at eleven, and they are lying by tens and twenties along the outer side of the
Corraterie, waiting for the hour and the signal."

She passed her hand across her closed eyes, and looked again, perplexedly. "And you," she said,
"you? I do not understand. If this be so, what are you doing here?"

"Here?"

"Ay, here! Why have you not given the alarm in the town?"

"Why should I give the alarm?" he retorted coolly. "To save those who hounded you through the
streets two days ago? To save those who to-morrow may put you to the torture and burn you like
the vilest of creatures? Save them?" with a grim smile. "No, let them save themselves!"

"But----"

"I would save you! not them! I would save your mother! not them! And it is done. Let the Grand
Duke triumph to-night, let Savoy take Geneva, and our good townsfolk will have other matters
to occupy their thoughts to-morrow! Ay, and through many and many a morrow to come! Save them?"
with a grim note in his voice; "no, I save you. Let them save themselves! It is God's mercy
on us, and His judgment on them! Or why happens it to-night? To-night of all nights in the year?"

She was very pale, and for a moment remained silent: whether she felt the temptation to which
he had succumbed, or was seeking what she should say to move him, is uncertain. At last, "It
is impossible," she murmured, in a low voice. "You have not thought of the women and children,
of the fathers and mothers who will suffer."

"And your mother!"

"Is one. God forbid that I should save her at the expense of all! God forbid!" she wailed,
as if she feared her own strength, as if the temptation almost overcame her. And then laying
her hand on his arm and looking up to him--his face was set so hard--"You will not do this!"
she said. "You will not do this! Could we be happy after? Could we be happy with blood on our
heads, and on our hands, and on our hearts! Happy, oh no! Claude, dear heart, dear husband,
we cannot buy happiness so, or life so, or love so! We cannot save ourselves--so! We cannot
play God's part--so!"

"It is not we who do it," he answered stubbornly.

"It is we who may prevent it!" she answered, leaning more heavily on his arm, looking up to
him more earnestly; with pleading eyes which it was hard to refuse. "Would you, to save us,
have betrayed Geneva?"

He groaned--she had moved him. "God knows!" he answered. "To save you--I think I would!"

"You would not! You would not!" she repeated. "Neither must you do this! Honour, faith, duty,
all forbid it!"

"And love?" he cried.

"And love!" she answered. "For who would love dishonoured? Who would love in shame? No; go
as you have come, and give the alarm! And do, and help! Go, as you have come! But how"--with
a startled look as she thought of the trap-door--"did you come?"

"By the Tertasse Gate," he explained. "There were but two men on guard, and they were asleep.
I passed them unseen, climbed the stairs to the leads--I have been up twice before--and crossed
the roofs. I knew I could come this way unseen, and if I had come by the door----"

She understood and cut him short. "Then go as you came and rouse the watch in the gate!" she
cried feverishly. "Rouse them and all, and Heaven grant you be not too late! Go, Claude, for
the love of me, for the love of God, go quickly!" Her hands on his arm shook with eagerness.
"So that, if there be treachery here----"

"There is treachery!" he said darkly. "Grio----"

"We at least shall have no part in it! You will go? You will go?" she repeated, clinging to
his arm, trembling against him, looking up to him with eyes which he could not resist. Love
wrestled here, on the higher, the nobler, the unselfish side, and came the stronger out of
the contest. There were tears in his eyes as he answered.

"I will go. You are right, Anne. But you will be alone."

"I run no greater risk than others," she answered. He held her to him, and their lips met once.
And in that instant, her heart beating against his, she comprehended to what she was sending
him, into what peril of life, into what a dark hell of force and fire and blood; and her arms
clung to him as if she could not let him go. Then, "Go, and God keep you!" she murmured in
a choked voice. And she thrust him from her.

A moment later he was on the roof, and she was kneeling where he had left her, bowed down,
with her face on the bare stairs in an agony of prayer for him. But not for long; she had her
part to do. She hurried down to the living-room and made sure that the strong shutters were
secured; then up to Basterga's room and to Grio's, and as far as her strength went she piled
the furniture against the iron-barred casements that looked on to the ramparts. While she worked
her ears listened for the alarm, but, until she had finished and was ascending with the light
to her mother's room she heard nothing. Then a distant cry, a faint challenge, the drum-drum
of running feet, a second cry--and silence. It might be his death-cry she had heard; and she
stood with a white face, shivering, waiting, bearing the woman's burden of suspense. To lie
down by her mother was impossible; rapine, murder, fire, all the horrors, all the perils of
a city taken by surprise, crowded into her mind. Yet they moved her not so much as the dangers
he ran, whom she had sent forth to confront them, whom she had plucked from her own breast
that he might face them!

Meanwhile, Claude, after gaining the tiles, paused a moment to consider his next step. Far
below him, on the narrow, black triangle of the Corraterie, lay the Savoyards, some three hundred
in number, who had scaled the wall. Out of the darkness of the plain, beyond and below them,
rose the faint, distant quacking of alarmed ducks, proving that others of the enemy moved there.
Even as he listened, the whirr of a wild goose winging its flight over the city came to his
ear. On his left, with a dim oil lamp marking, here or there, the meeting of four ways, the
town slept unsuspicious, recking nothing of the fate prepared for it.

It was a solemn moment, and Claude on the roof under the night sky, felt it to be so. Restored
to his higher self, he breathed a prayer for guidance and for her, and was as eager now as
he had before been cold. But not the less for that did he ply the wits that, working freely
in this hour of peril, proved him one of those whom battle owns for master. He had gathered
enough, lying on his face in the bastion, to feel sure that the forlorn hope which had gained
a footing on the wall would not move until the arrival of the main body whom it was its plan
to admit by the Porte Neuve. To carry the alarm to the Porte Neuve, therefore, and secure that
gate, seemed to be the first and most urgent step; since to secure the Tertasse and the other
inner gates would be of little avail, if the main body of the enemy were once in possession
of the ramparts. The course that at first sight seemed the most obvious--to enter the town,
give the alarm at the town hall, and set the tocsin ringing--he rejected; for while the town
was arming, the three hundred who had entered might seize the Porte Neuve, and so secure the
entrance of the main body.

These calculations occupied no more than a few seconds: then, his mind made up to the course
he must pursue, he crawled as quickly, but also as quietly, as he could along the dark parapets
until he gained the leads of the Tertasse. Safe so far, he proceeded, with equal or greater
caution, to descend the narrow cork-screw staircase, that led to the guard-room on the ground
floor.

He forgot that it is more easy to ascend without noise than to descend. With all his care he
stumbled when he was within three steps of the bottom. He tried to save himself, but fell against
the half-open door, flung it wide, and, barely keeping his feet, found himself face to face
with the two watchmen, who, startled by the noise, had sprung to their feet, thinking the devil
was upon them. One, with an oath upon his lips, reached for his half-pike; his fellow, less
sober, steadied himself by resting a hand on the table.

If they gave the alarm, his plan was gone. The enemy, finding themselves discovered, would
seize the Porte Neuve. "One minute!" he cried breathlessly. "Let me explain!"

"You!" the more sober retorted, glaring fiercely at him. "Who the devil are you? And where
have you been?"

"Quiet, man, quiet!"

"What is it?"

"Treason!" Claude answered, imploring silence by a gesture. "Treason! That is what it is! But
for God's sake, no noise! No noise, man, or our throats are as good as cut! Savoy has the wall!"

The man stared, and no wonder. "You are mad," he said, "or drunk! Savoy----"

"Fool, it is so!" Claude cried, beside himself with impatience.

"Savoy?"

"They are under the trees on the ramparts within a few yards of us now! Three hundred of them!
A word and you will feel their pikes in your breast! Listen to me!"

But with a laugh of derision the drunken man cut him short. "Savoy here--on the wall!" he hiccoughed.
"And we on guard!"

"It is so!" Claude urged. "Believe me, it is so! And we must be wary."

"You lie, young man! And I'll--hic--I'll prove it! See here! Savoy on the wall, indeed! Savoy?
And we on guard?"

He lurched in two strides to the outer door, seized it, and supported himself by it. Claude
leant forward to stop him, but could not reach, being on the other side of the table. He called
to the other to do so. "Stop him!" he said. "Stop him!"

The man might have done so, but he did not stir; and "Stop him?" the sot answered, his hand
on the door. "Not--two of you--will stop him! Now, then! Savoy, indeed! On the wall? I'll show
you!"

He let the door go, and reeled three paces into the darkness outside, waving his hands as if
he drove chickens. "Savoy! Savoy!" he cried; but whether in drunken bravado, in derision, or
in pure disbelief, God only knows! For the word had barely passed his lips the second time
before a gurgling scream followed, freezing the hearts of the two listeners; and, before the
second guard could close the door or move from his place on the hearth, four men sprang in
out of the darkness, and bore him back. Before he had struck a blow they had pinned him against
the wall.

Claude owed his escape to his position behind the door. They did not see him as they sprang
in, intent on the one they did see. He knew resistance to be futile, and a bound carried him
into the darkness of the cork-screw staircase. Once there, he dared not move. Thence he saw
and heard what followed.

The man pinned against the wall, with the point of a knife flickering before his eyes, begged
piteously for his life.

"Then silence!" Basterga answered--for the foremost who had entered was he. "A word and you die!"

"Better let me finish him at once!" Grio growled. The prisoner's face was ashen, his eyes were
starting from his head. "Dead men give no alarms."

"Mercy! Mercy!" the man gasped.

"Ay, ay, let him live," Basterga said good-naturedly. "But he must be gagged. Turn your face
to the wall, my man!"

The poor wretch complied with gratitude. In a twinkling the Paduan's huge fingers closed round
his neck, and over his wind-pipe. "Now strike," the big man hissed. "He will make no noise!"

With a sickening thud Grio's knife sank between the shoulders, a moment the body writhed in
Basterga's herculean grip, then it sank lifeless to the floor. "Had you struck him, fool,"
Basterga muttered wrathfully, wiping a little blood from his sleeve, "as you wanted to strike
him, he had squealed like a pig! Now 'tis the same, and no noise. Ha! Seize him!"

He spoke too late. Claude had seen his opportunity, and as the treacherous blow was struck
had crept forth. At the moment the other saw him he bounded over the threshold. Even as his
feet touched the ground a man who stood outside lunged at him with a pike but missed him--a
chance, for Claude had not seen the striker. The next moment the young man had launched himself
into the darkness and was running for his life across the Corraterie in the direction of the
Porte Neuve.

He knew that his foes were lying on every side of him, and the cry of "Seize him! Seize him!"
went with him, making every step a separate peril. He could not see a yard, but he was young
and fleet and active; and the darkness covering him, the men were confused. Over more than
one black object he bounded like a deer. Once a man rising in front of him brought him heavily
to the ground, but by good fortune it was his foot struck the man, and on the head, and the
fellow lay still and let him rise. A moment later another gripped him, but Claude and he fell
together, and the younger man, rolling nimbly sideways, got clear and to his feet again, made
for the wall on his right, turned left again, and already thought himself over the threshold
of the Porte Neuve. The cry "Aux Armes! Aux Armes!" was already on his lips, he thought he
had succeeded, when between his eyes and the faintly lighted gateway a dozen forms rose as
by magic and poured in before him--so near to him that, unable to check himself, he jostled
the hindmost.

He might have entered with them, so near was he. But he saw that he was too late; he guessed
that the outcry behind him had precipitated the attack, and, arresting himself outside the
ring of light, but within a few paces of the gateway, he threw himself on the ground and awaited
the event. It was not long in declaring itself. For a few seconds a dull roar of shots and
shouts and curses filled the gate. Then out again, helter-skelter, with a flash of exploding
powder and a whirl of steel and blows, came defenders and assailants in a crowd, the former
bent on escaping, the latter on cutting them off from the Porte Tertasse and the town. For
an instant after they had poured out the gate seemed quiet, and with his eyes upon it, Claude
rose, first to his knees and then to his feet, paused a moment in doubt, then darted in and
entered the guard-room.

The firelight--the other lights in the small, dingy chamber had been trampled under foot--showed
him two wounded men groaning on the floor, and the body of a third who lay apparently dead.
Claude bent over one, found what he wanted--a half-pike--and glided to the door of the stairs
that led to the roof. It was in the same position as in the Tertasse. He opened it, passed
through it, mounted two steps, and in the darkness came plump against some one who seized him
by the throat.

The man had no weapon--at any rate he did not strike; and Claude, taken by surprise, could
not level his pike in the narrow stairway. For a moment they wrestled, Claude striving to bring
his weapon to bear on his foe, the latter trying to strangle him. But the advantage of the
stairs lay with the first comer, who was the uppermost, and gradually he bore Claude back and
back. The young man, however, would not let go such hold as he had, and both were on the point
of falling out on the floor of the guard-room when the light disclosed Claude's face.

"You are of us!" his opponent panted. And abruptly he released his grip.

"Geneva!"

"I know you!" The man was one of the guard who, in the alarm, had escaped into the stairway.
"I know you! You live in the Corraterie!"

Claude wasted not a second. "Up!" he cried. "We can hold the roof! Up, man, for your life!
For your life! It is our only chance!"

With the fear of death upon him, the other needed no second telling. He turned, and groped
upwards in haste; and Claude followed, treading on his heels; nor a moment too soon. While
they were still within the staircase, which their elbows rubbed on either side, they heard
the enemy swarm into the room below. Cries of triumph, of "Savoy! Savoy!" of "Ville gagnée!
gagnée!" hummed dully up to them, and proclaimed the narrowness of their escape. Then the night
air met their faces, they bent their heads and passed out upon the leads; they had above them
the stars, and below them all the world of night, with its tramp of hidden feet, its swaying
lights so tiny and distant, and here and there its cry of "Savoy! Savoy!" that showed that
the enemy, relying on their capture of the Porte Neuve, were casting off disguise.

Claude heard and saw all, but lost not a moment. He had not made this haste for his life only:
before he had risen to his knees or set foot in the gate, he had formed his plan. "The Portcullis!"
he cried. "The Portcullis! Where are the chains? On this side?" Less than a week before he
had stood and watched the guard as they released it and raised it again for practice.

The soldier, familiar with the tower, should have been able to go to the chains at once. But
though he had struggled for his life and was ready to struggle for it again, he had not recovered
his nerve, and he shrank from leaving the stairs, in holding which their one chance consisted.
He muttered, however, that the winch was on such and such a side, and, with his head in the
stairway, indicated the direction with his hand. Claude groped his way to the spot, his breath
coming fast; fortunately he laid his hand almost at once on the chains and felt for the spike,
which he knew he must draw or knock out. That done, the winch would fly round, and the huge
machine fall by its own weight.

On a sudden, "They are coming!" the soldier cried in a terrified whisper. "My God, they are
coming! Come back! Come back!" For Claude had their only weapon, and the guard was defenceless.
Defenceless by the side of the stairs up which the foe was climbing!

The hair rose on Claude's head, but he set his teeth; though the man died, though he died,
the portcullis must fall! More than his own life, more than the lives of both of them, more
than lives a hundred or a thousand hung on that bolt; the fate of millions yet unborn, the
freedom and the future of a country hung on that bolt which would not give way--though now
he had found it and was hammering it. Grinding his teeth, the sweat on his brow, he beat on
it with the pike, struck the iron with the strength of despair, stooped to see what was amiss--still
with the frenzied prayers of the other in his ears--saw it, and struck again and again--and again!

Whirr! The winch flew round, barely missing his head. With a harsh, grinding sound that rose
with incredible swiftness to a scream, piercing the night, the ponderous grating slid down,
crashed home and barred all entrance--closed the Porte Neuve. It did more, though Claude did
not know it. It cut off the engineer from the outer gate, of which the keys were at the Town
Hall, and against which in another minute, another sixty seconds, he had set his petard. That
set and exploded, Geneva had lain open to its enemies. As it was, so small was the margin,
so fatally accurate the closing, that when the day rose, it disclosed a portent. When the victors
came to examine the spot they found beneath the portcullis the mangled form of one of the engineers,
and beside him lay his petard.

CHAPTER XXIV.

ARMES! ARMES!

Claude did not know all that he had done, or the narrow margin of time by which he had succeeded.
But he did know that he had saved the gate; that gate on the outer side of which four thousand
of the picked troops of Savoy were waiting the word to enter. He knew that he had done it with
death at his elbow and with the cries of his panic-stricken comrade in his ears. And in the
moment of success he rose above the common level. He felt himself master of fear, lord of death;
in the exultation of his triumph he thought nothing too hard or too dangerous for him.

It was well perhaps that he had this feeling, for he had not a moment to waste if he would
save himself. As the portcullis struck the ground with a thunderous crash and rebounded, and
he turned from the winch to the stairhead, a last warning, cut short in the utterance, reached
him, and he saw through the gloom that his companion was already in the grip of a figure which
had succeeded in passing out of the staircase. Claude did not hesitate. With a roar of rage
he ran like a bull at the enemy, struck him full under the arm with his pike, and drove him
doubled up into the stairhead, with such force that the Genevese had much ado to free himself.

The man was struck helpless--dead for aught that appeared at the moment. But the pike coming
in contact with the edge of his corselet had not penetrated, and Claude recovered it quickly,
and levelled it in waiting for the next comer. At the same time he adjured his comrade to secure
the fallen man's weapon. The guard seized it, and the two waited, with suspended breath, for
the sally which they were sure must come.

But the stairs were narrow, the fallen body blocked the outlet, and possibly the assailants
had expected no resistance. Finding it, they thought better of it. A moment and they could
be heard beating a retreat.

"Pardieu! they are going!" the guard exclaimed; and he began to shake.

"Ay, but they will return!" Claude answered grimly. "Have no fear of that! The portcullis is
down, and the only way to raise it, is up these stairs. But it will be hard if, armed as we
are now, we cannot baffle them! Has he no pistol?"

Marcadel--that was the soldier's name--felt about the prostrate man, but found none; and bidding
him listen and not move for his life--but there was little need of the injunction--Claude passed
over to the inner edge of the roof, facing the Corraterie. Here he raised his voice and shouted
the alarm with all the force of his lungs, hoping thus to supplement the cries which here and
there had been raised by the Savoyards.

"Aux Armes! Armes!" he cried. "The enemy is at the gate! To arms! To arms!"

A man ran out of the gateway at the sound of his shouting, levelled a musket and fired at him.
The slugs flew wide, and Claude, lifted above himself, yelled defiance, knowing that the more
shots were fired the more quickly and widely would the alarm be spread.

That it was spreading, that it was being taken up, his position on the gateway enabled him
to discern, distant as the Porte Neuve lay from the heart of the town. A flare of light at
the rear of the Tertasse, and a confused hub-bub in that quarter, seemed to show that, though
the Savoyards had seized the gate, they had not penetrated beyond it. Away on his extreme left,
where the Porte de la Monnaye, hard by his old bastion, overlooked the Rhone and the island,
were lights again, and a sound of a commotion as though there too the enemy held the gate,
but found farther progress closed against them. On the Treille to his right, the most westerly
of the three inner gates, and the nearest to the Town Hall, the enemy seemed to be preparing
an attack, for as he ceased to shout, muskets exploded in that direction; and as far as he
could judge the shots were aimed outwards.

With such alarms at three inner points--to say nothing of the noise at the more distant Porte
Neuve--it seemed impossible that any part of the city could remain in ignorance of the attack.
In truth, as he stood peering down into the dark Corraterie, and listening to the heavy tramp
of unseen feet, now here, now there, and the orders that rose from unseen throats--even as
he prepared to turn, summoned by a warning cry from Marcadel, the first note of the alarm-bell
smote his ear.

One moment and the air hummed with its heavy challenge, and all of Geneva that still slept
awoke and stood upright. Men ran half naked from their houses. Boys in their teens snatched
arms and sallied forth. White faces looked into the night from barred windows or lofty dormers;
and across narrow wynds and under dark Gothic entries men dragged huge chains and hooked them,
and hurried on to where the alarm seemed loudest and the risk most pressing. In an instant
in pitch-dark alleys lights gleamed and steel jarred on stone; out of the darkness deep voices
shouted questions, or answered or gave orders, and from a thousand houses, alike in the wealthy
Bourg du Four with its three-storied piles and in the sordid lanes about the water and the
bridges, went up one wail of horror and despair. Men who had dreamed of this night for years,
and feared it as they feared God's day, awoke to find their dream a fact, and never while they
lived forgot that awakening. While women left alone in their homes bolted and barred and fell
to prayers; or clasped to their breasts babes who prattled, not understanding the turmoil,
or why their mothers looked strangely on them.

Something of this, something of the horror of that sudden awakening, and of the confusion in
the narrow streets, where voices cried that the enemy were here or there or in a third place,
and the bravest knew not which way to turn, penetrated to Claude on the roof of the tower;
and at the thought of Anne and the perils that encircled her--for about the house in the Corraterie
the uproar rose loudest--his heart melted. But he had not long to dwell on her peril; not long
to dwell on anything. Before the great bell had hurled its warning abroad three times he had
to go. Marcadel's voice, urgent, insistent, summoned him to the stairhead.

"They are mustering at the bottom!" the man whispered over his shoulder. He was on his knees,
his head in the hood of the staircase. The wounded man, breathing stertorously, still cumbered
the upper steps. Marcadel rested one hand on him.

Claude thrust in his head and listened. He could hear, above the thick breathing of the Savoyard,
the stir of men muttering and moving in the darkness below; and now the stealthy shuffle of
feet, and again the faint clang of a weapon against the wall. Doubtless it had dawned on some
one in command below, that here on this tower lay the keys of Geneva: that by themselves three
hundred men could not take, nor hold if they took, a town manned by five or six thousand; consequently
that if Savoy would succeed in the enterprise so boldly begun, she must by hook or crook raise
this portcullis and open this gate. As a fact, Brunaulieu, the captain of the forlorn hope,
had passed the word that the tower must be taken at any cost; and had come himself from the
Porte Tertasse, where a brisk conflict was beginning, to see the thing done.

Claude did not know this, but had he known it, it would not have reduced his courage.

"Yes, I hear them," he whispered in answer to the soldier's words. "But they have not mounted
far yet. And when they come, if two pikes cannot hold this doorway which they can pass but
one at a time, there is no truth in Thermopylæ!"

"I know naught of that," the other answered, rising nervously to his feet. "I don't favour
heights. Give me the lee of a wall and fair odds----"

"Odds?" Claude echoed vain-gloriously--but only the stars attended to him--"I would not have
another man!"

Marcadel seized him by the sleeve. His voice rose almost to a scream. "But, by Heaven, there
is another man!" he cried. "There!" He pointed with a shaking hand to the outer corner of the
leads, in the neighbourhood of the place where the winch of the portcullis stood. "We are betrayed!
We are dead men!" he babbled.

Claude made out a dim figure, crouching against the battlement; and the thought, which was
also in Marcadel's mind, that the enemy had set a ladder against the wall and outflanked them,
rendered him desperate. At any rate there was but one on the roof as yet: and quick as thought
the young man lowered his pike and charged the figure.

With a shrill scream the man fell on his knees before him. "Mercy!" cried a voice he knew.
"Mercy! Don't kill me! Don't kill me!"

It was Louis Gentilis. Claude halted, looked at him in amazement, spurned him with his foot.
"Up, coward, and fight for your life then!" he said. "Or others will kill you. How come you here?"

The lad still grovelled. "I was in the guard-room," he whimpered. "I had come with a message--from
the Syndic."

"The Syndic Blondel?"

"Yes! To remind the Captain that he was to go the rounds at eleven exactly. It was late when
I got there and they--oh, this dreadful night--they broke in, and I, hid on the stairs."

"Well, you can hide no longer. You have got to fight now!" Claude answered grimly, "There are
no more stairs for any of us except to heaven! I advise you to find something, and do your
worst. Take the winch-bar if you can find nothing else! And----"

He broke off. Marcadel, who had remained at the stairhead, was calling to him in a voice that
could no longer be resisted--a voice of despair. Claude ran to him. He found him with his head
in the stairway, but with his pike shortened to strike. "They are coming!" he muttered over
his shoulder. "They are more than half-way up now. Be ready and keep your eyes open. Be ready!"
he continued after a pause. "They are nearly--here now!" His breath began to come quickly;
at last stepping back a pace and bringing his point to the charge. "They are here!" he shouted.
"On guard!"

Claude stooped an inch lower, and with gleaming eyes, and feet set warily apart, waited the
onset; waited with suspended breath for the charge that must come. He could hear the gasps
of the wounded man who lay on the uppermost step; and once close to him he caught a sound of
shuffling, moving feet, that sent his heart into his mouth. But seconds passed, and more seconds,
and glare as he might into the black mouth of the staircase, from which the hood averted even
the light of the stars, he could make out nothing, no movement, no sign of life!

The suspense was growing intolerable. And all the time behind him the alarm-bell was flinging
"Doom! Doom!" down on the city, and a thousand sounds of fear and strife clutched at his mind
and strove to draw it from the dark gap at which he waited, as a dog waits for a rat at the
mouth of its hole. His breath began to come quickly, his knees shook. He heard his companion
gasp--human nerves could stand it no longer. And then, just as he felt that, come what might,
he must plunge his pike into the darkness, and settle the question, the shuffling sound came
anew and steadied him, and he set his teeth and waited--waited still.

But nothing happened, nothing moved. Again the seconds, almost the minutes passed, and the
deep note of the alarm-bell swelled louder and heavier, filling all the air, all the night,
all the world, with its iron tongue--setting the tower reeling, the head swimming. In spite
of himself, in spite of the fact that he knew his life hung on his vigilance, his thoughts
wandered; wandered to Anne, alone and defenceless in that hell below him, from which such wild
sounds were beginning to rise; to his own fate if he and Marcadel got the worst; to the advantage
a light properly shaded would have given them, had they had it. But, alas, they had no light.

And then, while he thought of that, the world was all light. A sheet of flame burst from the
hood, dazzled, blinded, scorched him; a crashing report filled his ears; he recoiled. The ball
had missed him, had gone between him and Marcadel and struck neither. But for a moment in pure
amazement, he stood gaping.

That moment had been his last had the defence lain with him only, or even with him and Marcadel.
It was the senseless form that cumbered the uppermost step which saved them. The man who had
fired tripped over it as he sprang out. He fell his length on the roof. The next man, less
hasty or less brave, sank down on the obstacle, and blocked the way for others.

Before either could rise all was over. Claude brought down his pike on the head of the first
to issue, and laid him lifeless on the leads. The guard, who was a better man at a pinch than
in the anticipation of it, drove the other back--as he tried to rise--with a wound in the face.
Then with a yell, assured that in the narrow stairhead the enemy could not use their weapons,
the two charged their pikes into the obscurity, and thrust and thrust, and thrust again, in
the cruelty of rage and fear.

What they struck, or where they struck, they could not see; but their ears told them that they
did not strike in vain. A shrill scream and the gurgling cry of a dying man proved it, and
the wild struggle that ensued on the stairs; where the uppermost, weighed down by the fallen
men, turned in a panic on those below and fought with them to force them to descend.

Claude shuddered as he listened, as he waited, his pike still levelled; shuddered at the pitiful
groaning that issued from the blackness, shuddered at the blows he had struck, and the scream
that still echoed in his ears. He had not trembled when he fought, but he trembled at the thought
of it.

"They are beaten," he muttered huskily.

"Ay, they are beaten!" Marcadel--he who had trembled before the fight--answered with exultation.
"You were right. We wanted no more men! But it was near. If this rogue had not tripped our
throats would have suffered."

"He was a brave man," Claude answered, leaning heavily on his pike. He needed its support.

Marcadel knelt down and felt the man over. "Ay," he said, "he was, to give the devil his due!
And that reminds me. We've a skulker here who has escaped so far. He shall play his part now.
We must have their arms, but it is dirty work groping in the dark for them; and maybe life
enough in one of them to drive a dagger between one's ribs. He shall do it. Where is he?"

Claude was feeling the reaction which ensues upon intense excitement. He did not answer. Nor
did he interfere when Marcadel, pouncing on Louis, where he crouched in the darkest corner,
forced him forward to the head of the staircase. There the lad fell on his knees weeping futilely,
wailing prayers. But the guard kicked him forward.

"In!" he said. "You know what you have to do! In, and strip them! Do you hear? And if you leave
as much as a knife----"

"I won't! I daren't!" Louis screamed. And grovelling on his face on the leads he clung to whatever
offered itself.

But men who have just passed through a life and death struggle, are hard. "You won't?" Marcadel
answered, applying his boot brutally, but without effect. "You will! Or you will feel my pike
between your ribs! In! In, my lad!"

A scream answered each repetition of the word, and proved that the threat was no empty one.
Claude might have intervened, but he remembered Anne and the humiliations she had suffered
in this craven's presence.

"In!" Marcadel repeated a third time. "And if you leave so much as a knife upon them I will
throw you off the tower. You understand, do you? Then in, and strip them!"

And driven by sheer torture--for the pike had thrice drawn blood from his writhing body--Louis
crept, weeping and quaking, into the staircase; and on one of her tormentors Anne was avenged.
But Claude was thinking more of her present peril than of this; he had moved from the stairhead.
A swell in the volume of sound which rose from the Corraterie had drawn him to that side of
the tower, where shaking off the exhaustion which for a time had overcome him, he was straining
his eyes to learn what was passing in the babel below.

The sight was a singular one. The Monnaye Gate far to the left, the Tertasse immediately before
him, and the Treille on his right, were the centres of separate conflagrations. In one place
a house, fired by the petard employed to force the door, was actually alight. In other places
so great was the conflux of torches, the flash and gleam of weapons, and the babel of sounds
that it wrought on the mind the impression of a fire blazing up in the night. Behind the Porte
Tertasse, in the narrow streets of the Tertasse and the Cité--immediately, therefore, behind
the Royaumes' house--the conflict seemed to rage most hotly, the shots to be most frequent,
the uproar greatest, even the light strongest; for the reflection of the combat below bathed
the Tertasse tower in a lurid glow. Claude could distinguish the roof of the Royaumes' house;
and to see so much yet to be cut off as completely as if he stood a hundred miles away, to
be so near yet so hopelessly divided, stung him to a new impatience and a greater daring.

He returned to Marcadel. "Are we going to stay on this tower?" he cried. "Shut up here, while
this goes forward and we may be of use?"

"I think we have done our part," the other answered soberly. "If any man has saved Geneva,
it is you! There, man, I give you the credit," he continued, in a burst of generosity, "and
it is no small thing! For it might make my fortune. But I have done some little too!"

"Ay! But cannot we----"

"What would you have us do more?" the man continued, and with reason. "Leave the roof to them?
'Tis all they want! Leave them to raise the old iron grate, and let in--what I hear yonder?"
He indicated the darker outer plain below the wall, whence rose the murmur of halted battalions,
waiting baffled, and uncertain, the opening of the gate.

"Ay, but if we descend?"

"May we not win the gate from a score?" Marcadel answered, between contempt and admiration.
"Is that what you mean? And when we have won it, hold it? No, not if each of us were Gaston
of Foix, Bayard, and M. de Crillon rolled into one! But what is this? We are winning or we
are losing! Which is it?"

From the Treille Gate had burst a rabble of men; a struggling crowd illumined by the glare
of three or four lights. Pikes and halberds flashed in the heart of the mob as it swirled and
struggled down the Corraterie in the direction of the gate from which the two men viewed it.
Half-way thither, in the open, its progress seemed to be checked; it hung and paused, swaying
this way and that; it recoiled. But at length, with a roar of triumph, it rolled on anew over
half a dozen prostrate forms, and in a trice burst about the base of the Porte Neuve, swept,
as it seemed to those above, into the gateway, and--in a twinkling broke back, repelled by
a crashing volley that shook the tower.

"They are our people!" cried Claude.

"Ay!"

"And now is our time!" The lad waved his weapon. "A diversion in the rear--and 'tis done!"

"In Heaven's name stop!" cried Marcadel, and he gripped Claude's sleeve. "A diversion, ay!"
he continued. "But a moment too soon or a moment too late--and where will we be?"

He spoke in vain. His words were wasted on the air. Claude, not to be restrained, had entered
the staircase. Pike in hand he felt his way over the bodies that choked it; by this time he
was half-way down the stairs. Marcadel hesitated, waited a moment, listened; then, partly because
success begets success, and courage courage, partly because he would not have the triumph taken
from him, he too risked all. He snatched from Gentilis' feeble hands a long pistol, part of
the spoils of the staircase; and, staying only to assure himself that a portion of the priming
still lay in the pan, he hurried after his leader.

By this time Claude was within four stairs of the guard-room. The low door that admitted to
it stood open; and towards it a man, hearing the hasty tread of feet, had that moment turned
a startled face. There was no room for anything but audacity, and Claude did not flinch. In
two bounds, he hurled himself through the door on to the man, missed him with his pike--but
was himself missed. In a flash the two were rolling together on the floor.

In their fall they brought down a third man, who, swearing horribly, made repeated stabs at
Claude with a dagger. But the only light in the room came from the fire, the three were interlaced,
and Claude was young and agile as an eel: he evaded the first thrust, and the second. The third
went home in his shoulder, but desperate with pain he seized the hand that held the poniard,
and clung to it; and before the man who had been the first to fall could regain his pike, or
a third man who was present, but who was wounded, could drag himself, swearing horribly, to
the spot, Marcadel fired from the stairs, and killed the wounded man. The next instant with
a yell of "Geneva!" he sprang on the others under cover of the smoke that filled the room.

The combat was still but of two to two; and without the guard-room but almost within arm's
length, were a dozen Savoyards, headed by Picot the engineer; any one of whom might, by entering,
turn the scale. But the pistol-shot had come to the ears of the attacking party: that instant,
guessing that they had allies within, they rallied and with loud cries returned to the attack.
Even while Marcadel having disposed of one more, stood over the struggling pair on the floor,
doubting where to strike, the burghers burst a second time into the gateway--on which the guard-room
opened--struck down Picot, and, hacking and hewing, with cries of "Porte Gagnée! Porte Gagnée!"
bore the Savoyards back.

For the half of a minute the low-groined archway was a whirl of arms and steel and flame. Half
a dozen single combats were in progress at once; amid yells and groans, and the jar and clash
of a score of weapons. But the burghers, fighting bareheaded for their wives and hearths, were
not to be denied; by-and-by the Savoyards gave back, broke, and saved themselves. One fierce
group cut its way out and fled into the darkness of the Corraterie. Of the others four men
remained on the ground, while two turned and tried to retreat into the guard-room.

But on the threshold they met Claude, vicious and wounded, his eyes in a flame; and he struck
and killed the foremost. The other fell under the blows of the pursuing burghers, and across
the two bodies Claude and Marcadel met their allies, the leaders of the assault. Strange to
say, the foremost and the midmost of these was a bandy-legged tailor, with a great two-handed
sword, red to the hilt; to such a place can valour on such a night raise a man. On his right
stood Blandano, Captain of the Guard, bareheaded and black with powder; on his left Baudichon
the councillor, panting, breathless, his fat face running with sweat and blood--for he bore
an ugly wound--but with unquenchable courage in his eyes. A man may be fat and yet a lion.

It was a moment in the lives of the five men who thus met which none of them ever forgot. "Was
it one of you two who lowered the portcullis?" Blandano gasped, as he leaned an instant on
his sword.

"He did," Marcadel answered, laying his hand on Claude's shoulder. "And I helped him."

"Then he has saved Geneva, and you have helped him!" Blandano rejoined bluntly. "Your name,
young man."

Claude told him.

"Good!" Blandano answered. "If I live to see the morning light, it shall not be forgotten!"

Baudichon leant across the dead, and shook Claude's hand. "For the women and children!" he
said, his fat face shaking like a jelly; though no man had fought that night with a more desperate
valour. "If I live to see the morning inquire for Baudichon of the council."

Jehan Brosse, the bandy-legged tailor with the huge sword--he was but five feet high and no
one up to that night had known him for a hero--squared his shoulders and looked at Claude,
as one who takes another under his protection. "Baudichon the councillor, whom all men know
in Geneva," he said with an affectionate look at the great man--he was proud of the company
to which his prowess had raised him. "You will not forget the name! no fear of that! And now on!"

"Ay, on!" Blandano answered, looking round on his panting followers, of whom some were staunching
their wounds and some, with dark faces and gleaming eyeballs, were loading and priming their
arms. "But I think the worst is over and we shall win through now. We have this gate safe,
and it is the key, as I told you. If all be well elsewhere, and the main guards be held----"

"Ay, but are they?" Baudichon muttered nervously: he reeled a little, for the loss of blood
was beginning to tell upon him. "That is the question!"

CHAPTER XXV.

BASTERGA AT ARGOS.

The fear that Blandano might postpone the night-round, to a time which would involve discovery,
haunted Blondel; and late on this eventful evening he despatched Louis, as we have seen, to
the Porte Neuve to remind the Captain of his orders. That done--it was all he could do--the
Syndic sat down in his great chair, and prepared himself to wait. He knew that he had before
him some hours of uncertainty almost intolerable; and a peril, a hundred times more hard to
face, because in the pinch of it he must play two parts; he must run with the hare and hunt
with the hounds, and, a traitor standing forward for the city he had betrayed, he must have
an eye to his reputation as well as his life.

He had no doubt of the success of Savoy, the walls once passed. Moreover, the genius of Basterga
had imposed itself upon him as that of a man unlikely to fail. But some resistance there must
be, some bloodshed--for the town held many devoted men; one hour at least of butchery, and
that followed, he shuddered to think it, by more than one hour of excess, of cruelty, of rapine.
From such things the captured cities of that day rarely escaped. In all that happened, the
resistance and the peril, he must, he knew, show himself; he must take his part and run his
risk if he would not be known for what he was, if he would not leave a name that men would spit on!

Strangely enough it was the moment of discovery and his conduct in that moment--it was the
anticipation of this, that weighed most heavily on his guilty mind as he sat in his parlour,
his hour of retiring long past, his household in bed. The city slept round him; how long would
it sleep? And when it awoke, how long dared he, how long would it be natural for him to ignore
the first murmur, the succeeding outcry, the rising alarm? It was not his cue to do overmuch,
to precipitate discovery, or to assume at once the truth to be the truth. But on the other
hand he must not be too backward.

Try as he would he could not divert his thoughts from this. He saw himself skulking in his
house, listening with a white face to the rush of armed men along the street. He heard the
tumult rising on all sides, and saw himself stand, guilty and irresolute, between hearth and
door, uncertain if the time had come to go forth. Finally, and before he had made up his mind
to go out, he fancied himself confronted by an entering face, and in an instant detected. And
this it was, this initial difficulty, oddly enough--and not the subsequent hours of horror,
confusion and danger, of dying men and wailing women--that rode his mind, dwelt on him and
shook his nerves as the crisis approached.

One consolation he had, and one only; but a measureless one. Basterga had kept his word. He
was cured. Six hours earlier he had taken the remedium according to the directions, and with
every hour that had elapsed since he had felt new life course through his veins. He had had
no return of pain, no paroxysm; but a singular lightness of body, eloquent of the change wrought
in him and the youth and strength that were to come, had done what could be done to combat
the terrors of the soul, natural in his situation. Pale he was, despite the potion; in spite
of it he trembled and sweated. But he knew himself changed, and sick at heart as he was, he
could only guess at the depths of nervous despair to which he must have fallen had he not taken
the wondrous draught.

There was that to the good. That to the good. He would live. And life was the great thing after
all; life and health, and strength. If he had sold his soul, his country, his friends, at least
he would live--if naught happened to him to-night. If naught--but ah, the thought pierced him
to the heart. He who had proved himself in old days no mean soldier in the field, who had won
honour in more than one fight, felt his brow grow damp, his knees grow flaccid, knew himself
a coward. For the life which he must risk was not the old life, but the new one which he had
bought so dearly; the new one for which he had given his soul, his country, and his friends.
And he dared not risk that! He dared not let the winds of heaven blow too roughly on that!
If aught befel him this night, the irony of it! The mockery of it! The deadly, deadly folly of it!

He sweated at the thought. He cursed, cursed frantically his folly in omitting to give himself
out for worse than he was; in omitting to take to his bed early in the day! Then he might have
kept it through the night, through the fight; then he might have avoided risks. Now he felt
that every ball discharged at a venture must strike him; that if he showed so much as his face
at a window death must find its opportunity. He would not have dared to pass through a street
on a windy day now--for if a tile fell it must fall on him. And he must fight! He must fight!

His manhood shrivelled within him at the thought. He shuddered. He was still shuddering, when
on the shutter which masked the casement came a knock, thrice repeated. A cautious knock of
which the mere sound implied an understanding.

The Syndic remained motionless, glaring at the window. Everything on a night like this, and
to an uneasy conscience, menaced danger. At length it occurred to him that the applicant might
be Louis, whom he had sent with the message to the Porte Neuve: and he took the lamp and went
to admit him, albeit reluctantly, for what did the booby mean by returning? It was late, and
only to open at this hour might, in the light cast by after events, raise suspicions.

But it was not Louis. The lamp flickering in the draught of the doorway disclosed a huge dusky
form, glimmering metallic here and there, that in a trice pushed him back, passed by him, entered.
It was Basterga. The Syndic shut the door, and staggered rather than walked after him to the
parlour. There the Syndic set down the lamp, and turned to the scholar, his face a picture
of guilty terror. "What is it?" he muttered. "What has happened? Is--the thing put off?"

The other's aspect answered his question. A black corselet with shoulder pieces, and a feathered
steel cap raised Basterga's huge stature almost to the gigantic. Nor did it need this to render
him singular; to draw the eye to him a second time and a third. The man himself in this hour
of his success, this moment of conscious daring, of reliance on his star and his strength,
towered in the room like a demi-god. "No," he answered, with a ponderous, exultant smile, slow
to come, slow to go. "No, Messer Blondel. Far from it. It has not been put off."

"Something has been discovered?"

"No. We are here. That is all."

The Syndic supported himself by a hand pressed hard against the table behind him. "Here?" he
gasped. "You are here? You have the town already? It is impossible."

"We have three hundred men in the Corraterie," Basterga answered. "We hold the Tertasse Gate,
and the Monnaye. The Porte Neuve is cut off, and at our mercy; it will be taken when we give
the signal. Beyond it four thousand men are waiting to enter. We hold Geneva in our grip at
last--at last!" And in an accent half tragic, half ironic, he declaimed:--

    "Venit summa dies et ineluctabile tempus
    Dardaniae! Fuimus Troes, fuit Ilium et ingens
    Gloria Teucrorum! Ferus omnia Jupiter Argos
    Transtulit!"

And then more lightly, "If you doubt me, how am I here?" he asked. And he extended his huge
arms in the pride of his strength. "Exercise your warrant now--if you can, Messer Syndic. Syndic,"
he continued in a tone of mockery, "where is your warrant now? I have but this moment," he
pointed to wet stains on his corselet, "slain one of your guards. Do justice, Syndic! I have
seized one of your gates by force. Avenge it, Syndic! Syndic? ha! ha! Here is an end of Syndics."

The Syndic gasped. He was a hard man, not to say an arrogant one, little used to opposition;
one who, times and again, had ridden rough-shod over the views of his fellows. To be jeered
at, after this fashion, to be scorned and mocked by this man who in the beginning had talked
so silkily, moved so humbly, evinced so much respect, played the poor scholar so well, was
a bitter pill. He asked himself if it was for this he had betrayed his city; if it was for
this he had sold his friends. And then--then he remembered that it was not for this--not for
this, but for life, dear life, warm life, that he had done this thing. And, swallowing the
rage that was rising within him, he calmed himself.

"It is better to cease to be Syndic than cease to live," he said coldly.

But the other had no mind to return to their former relations. "True, O sage!" he answered
contemptuously. "But why not both? Because--shall I tell you?"

"I hear----"

"Yes, and I hear too! The city is rising!" Basterga listened a moment. "Presently they will
ring the alarm-bell, and----"

"If you stay here some one may find you!"

"And find me with you?" Basterga rejoined. He knew that he ought to go, for his own sake as
well as the Syndic's. He knew that nothing was to be made and much might be lost by the disclosure
that was on his tongue. But he was intoxicated with the success which he had gained; with the
clang of arms, and the glitter of his armed presence. The true spirit of the man, as happens
in intoxication of another kind, rose to the surface, cruel, waggish, insolent--of an insolence
long restrained, the insolence of the scholar, who always in secret, now in the light, panted
to repay the slights he had suffered, the patronage of leaders, the scoffs of power. "Ay,"
he continued, "they may find me with you! But if you do not mind, I need not. And I was just
asking you--why not both? Life and power, my friend?"

"You know," Blondel answered, breathing quickly. How he hated the man! How gladly would he
have laid him dead at his feet! For if the fool stayed here prating, if he were found here
by those who within a few moments would come with the alarm, he was himself a lost man. All
would be known.

That was the fear in Blondel's mind; the alarm was growing louder each moment, and drawing
nearer. And then in a twinkling, in two or three sentences, Basterga put that fear into the
second place, and set in its seat emotions that brooked no rival.

"Why not both?" he said, jeering. "Live and be Syndic, both? Because you had the scholar's
ill, eh, Messer Blondel? Or because your physician said you had it--to whom I paid a good price--for
the advice?" The devil seemed to look out of the man's eyes, as he spoke in short sentences,
each pointed, each conveying a heart-stab to its hearer.

"To whom--you gave?" Blondel muttered, his eyes dilated.

"A good price--for the advice! A good price to tell you, you had it."

The magistrate's face swelled till it was almost purple, his hands gripped the front of his
coat, and pressed hard against his breast. "But--the pains?" he muttered. "Did you--but no,"
with a frightful grimace, "you lie! you lie!"

"Did I bribe him--to give you those too?" the other answered, with a ruthless laugh. "You have
alighted on it, most grave and reverend sage. You have alighted on the exact fact, so clever
are you! That was precisely what I did some months back, after I heard that you, being fearful
as rich men are, had been to him for some fancied ill. You had two medicines? You remember?
The one gave, the other soothed your trouble. And now that you understand, now that your mind
is free from care, and you can sleep without fear of the scholar's ill--will you not thank
me for your cure, Messer Blondel?"

"Thank you?" the magistrate panted. "Thank you?" He stepped back two paces, groping with his
hands, as if he sought to support himself by the table from which he had advanced.

"Ay, thank me!"

"No, but I will pay you!" and with the word Blondel snatched from the table a pistol which
he had laid within his reach an hour earlier. Before the giant, confident in his size, discovered
his danger, the muzzle was at his breast. It was too late to move then--three paces divided
the men; but, in his haste to raise the pistol, Blondel had not shaken from it the handkerchief
under which he had hidden it, and the lock fell on a morsel of the stuff. The next moment Basterga's
huge hand struck aside the useless weapon, and flung Blondel gasping against the wall.

"Fool!" the scholar cried, towering above the baffled, shrinking man whose attempt had placed
him at his mercy. "Think you that Cæsar Basterga was born to perish by your hand? That the
gods made me what I am, I who carry to-night the fortunes of a nation and the fate of a king,
that I might fall by so pitiful a creature as you! Ay, 'tis the alarm-bell, you are right.
And by-and-by your friends will be here. It is a wonder," he continued, with a cruel look,
"that they are not here already; but perhaps they have enough to fill their hands! And come
or stay--if they be like you, poor fool, weak in body as in wit--I care not! I, Cæsar Basterga,
this night lord of Geneva, and in the time to come, and thanks to you----"

"Curse you!" Blondel gasped.

"That which I dare be sworn you have dreamt of being!"--the scholar continued with a subtle
smile. "The Grand Duke's alter ego, Mayor of the Palace, Adviser to his Highness! Yes, I hit
you there? I touch you there! Oh, vanity of little men, I thought so! "He broke off and listened,
as sharp on one another two gun-shots rang out at no great distance from the house. A third
followed as he hearkened: and on it a swelling wave of sound that rose with each second louder
and nearer. "Ay, 'tis known now!" Basterga resumed, in a tone more quiet, but not less confident.
"And I must go, my dear friend--who thought a minute ago to speed me for ever. Know that it
lies not in hands mean as yours to harm Cæsar Basterga of Padua! And that to-night, of all
nights, I bear a charmed life! I carry, Syndic, a kingdom and its fortunes!"

He seemed to swell with the thought, and in comparison of the sickly man scowling darkly on
him from the wall, he did indeed look a king, as he turned to the door, flung it wide and passed
into the passage. With only the street door between him and the hub-bub that was beginning
to fill the night, he could measure the situation. He had stayed late. The beat of many feet
hastening one way--towards the Porte Tertasse--the clatter of weapons as here and there a man
trailed his pike on the stones, the roar of rising voices, the rattle of metal as some one
hauled a chain across the end of the Bourg du Four and hooked it--sounds such as these might
have alarmed an ordinary man who knew himself cut off from his party, and isolated among foes.

But Basterga did not quail. His belief in his star was genuine; he was intoxicated with the
success which he fancied lay within his grasp. He carried Cæsar and his fortunes! was it in
mean men to harm him? Nay, so confident was he, that when he had opened the door he stood an
instant on the threshold viewing the strange scene, and quoted with an appreciation as strange--

    "At domus interior gemitu miseroque tumultu
    Miscetur, penitusque cavae plangoribus aedes
    Femineis ululant; ferit aurea sidera clamor"--

from his favourite poet. After which without hesitation but also without hurry he turned and
plunged into the stream of passers that was hurrying towards the Porte Tertasse.

He had been right not to quail. In the medley of light and shadow which filled the Bourg du
Four and the streets about the Town Hall, in the confusion, in the rush of all in one direction
and with one intent, no one paid heed to him, or supposed him to belong to the enemy. Some
cried "To the Treille! They are there! To the Treille!" And these wheeled that way. But more,
guided by the sounds of conflict, held on to the point where the short, narrow street of the
Tertasse turned left-handed out of the equally narrow Rue de la Cité--the latter leading onwards
to the Porte de la Monnaye, and the bridges. Here, at the meeting of the two confined lanes,
overhung by timbered houses, and old gables of strange shapes, a desperate conflict was being
fought. The Savoyards, masters of the gate, had undertaken to push their way into the town
by the Rue Tertasse; not doubting that they would be supported by-and-by, upon the entrance
of their main body through the Porte Neuve. They had proceeded no farther, however, than the
junction with the Rue de la Cité--a point where darkness was made visible by two dim oil lamps--before,
the alarm being given, they found themselves confronted by a dozen half-clad townsfolk, fresh
from their beds; of whom five or six were at once laid low. The survivors, however, fought
with desperation, giving back, foot by foot; and as the alarm flew abroad and the city rose,
every moment brought the defenders a reinforcement--some father just roused from sleep, armed
with the chance weapon that came to hand, or some youth panting for his first fight. The assailants,
therefore, found themselves stayed; slowly they were driven back into the narrow gullet of
the Tertasse. Even there they were put to it to hold their ground against an ever-increasing
swarm of citizens, whom despair and the knowledge that they were fighting on their hearths,
for their wives, and for their children, brought up in renewed strength.

In the Tertasse, however, where it was not possible to outflank them, and no dark side-alley,
vomiting now and again a desperate man, gave one to death, a score could hold out against a
hundred. Here then, with the gateway at their backs--whence three or four could fire over their
heads--the Savoyards stood stubbornly at bay, awaiting the reinforcements which they were sure
would come from the Porte Neuve. They were picked troops not easily discouraged; and they had
no fear that aught serious had happened. But they asked impatiently why D'Albigny with the
main body did not come; why Brunaulieu with the Monnaye in his hands did not see that the time
was opportune. They chafed at the delay. Give the city time to array itself, let it recover
from its first surprise, and all their forces might scarcely avail to crush opposition.

It was at this moment, when the burghers had drawn back a little that they might deliver a
decisive attack, that Basterga came up. Fabri the Syndic had taken the command, and had shouted
to all who had windows looking on the lane to light them. He had arrayed his men in some sort
of order and was on the point of giving the word to charge, when he heard the steps of Basterga
and some others coming up; he waited to allow them to join him. The instant they arrived he
gave the word, and followed by some thirty burghers armed with half-pikes, halberds, anything
the men had been able to snatch up, he charged the Savoyards bravely.

In the narrow lane but four or five could fight abreast, and the Grand Duke's men were clad
in steel and well armed. Nevertheless Fabri bore back the first line, pressed on them stoutly,
and amid a wild mêlée of struggling men and waving weapons, began to drive the troop, in spite
of a fierce resistance, into the gate. If he could do this and enter with them, even though
he lost half his men, he might save the city.

But the Savoyards, though they gave back, gave back slowly. Within twenty paces of the gate
the advance wavered, stopped, hung an instant. Of that instant Basterga took advantage. He
had moved on undetected, with the rearmost burghers: now he saw his opportunity and seized
it. He flung to either side the man to right and left of him. He struck down, almost with the
same movement, the man in front. He rushed on Fabri, who in the middle of the first line was
supporting, though far from young, a single combat with one of the Savoyard leaders. On him
Basterga's coward weapon alighted without warning, and laid him low. To strike down another,
and turning, range himself in the van of the foreigners with a mighty "Savoy! Savoy!" was Basterga's
next action; and it sufficed. The panic-stricken burghers, apprised of treason in their ranks,
gave back every way. The Savoyards saw their advantage, rallied, and pressed them. Speedily
the Italians regained the ground they had lost, and with the tall form of their champion fighting
in the van, began to sweep the towns-folk back into the Rue de la Cité.

But arrived at the meeting of the ways, Basterga's followers paused, hesitating to expose their
flank by entering this second street. The Genevese saw this, rallied in their turn, and for
a moment seemed to be holding their own. But three or four of their doughtiest fighters lay
stark in the kennel, they had no longer a leader, they were poorly armed and hastily collected;
and devoted as they were, it needed little to renew the panic and start them in utter rout.
Basterga saw this, and when his men still hung back, neglecting the golden opportunity, he
rushed forward, almost alone, until he stood conspicuous between the two bands--the one hesitating
to come on, the other hesitating to fly.

"Savoy!" he thundered, "Ville gagnée! The city is ours! Cowards, come on!" And waving his halberd
above his head, he beckoned to his followers to advance.

Had they done so, had they charged on the instant, they had changed all for him, and perhaps
all for Geneva. But they hung a moment, and the next, as in shame they drew themselves together
for the charge, their champion stooped forward with a shrill scream. The next instant he received
full on his nape a heavy iron pot, that descending with tremendous force from a window above
him, rolled from him broken into three pieces.

He went down under the blow as if a sledge-hammer had struck him; and so sudden, so dramatic
was the fall--his armour clanging about him--that for an instant the two bands held their hands
and stood staring, as indifferent crowds stand and gaze in the street. A dozen on the patriots'
side knew the house from which the marmite fell, and marked it; and half as many saw at the
small window whence it came the grey locks and stern wrinkled face of an aged woman. The effect
on the burghers was magical. As if the act symbolised not only the loved ones for whom they
fought, but the dire distress to which they were come, they rushed on the foreign men-at-arms
with a spirit and a fury hitherto unknown. With a ringing shout of "Mère Royaume! Mère Royaume!"--raised
by those who knew the old woman, and taken up by many who did not--they swept the foe, shaken
by the fall of their leader, along the narrow Tertasse, pressed on them, and, still shouting
the new war-cry, entered the gateway along with them.

"Mère Royaume! Mère Royaume!" The name rang savagely in the groining of the arch, echoed dully
in the obscurity in which the fierce struggle went on. And men struck to its rhythm, and men
died to it. And men who heard it thus and lived never forgot it, nor ever went back in their
minds to that night without recalling it.

To one man, flurried already, and a coward at heart, the name carried a paralysing assurance
of doom. He had seen Basterga fall--by this woman's hand of all hands in the world--and he
had been the first to flee. But in the lane he tripped over Fabri, he fell headlong, and only
raised himself in time to gain the gateway a few feet in front of the avenging pikes. Still,
he might escape, he hoped to escape, through the gate and into the open Corraterie. But the
first to reach the gates had taken in hand to shut them, and so to prevent the townsfolk reaching
the Corraterie. One of the great doors, half-closed, blocked his way, and instinctively--ignorant
how far behind him the pike-points were--he sprang aside into the guard-room.

His one chance now--for he was cut off, and knew it--lay in reaching the staircase and mounting
to the roof. A bound carried him to the door, he grasped the handle. But a fugitive who had
only a second before saved himself that way, took him for a pursuer, dragged the door close
and held it--held it in spite of his efforts and his imprecations.

Five seconds, ten, perhaps, Grio--for he it was--wasted in struggling vainly with the door.
The man on the other side clung to it with a despair equal to his own. Five seconds, ten, perhaps;
but in that space of time, short as it was, the man paid smartly for the sins of his life.
When the time of grace had elapsed, with a pike-point a few inches from his back and the gleaming
eyes of an avenging burgher behind it, he fled shrieking round the table. He might even yet
have escaped by a chance; for all was confusion, and though there was a glare there was no
light. But he stumbled over the body of the man whom he had slain without pity a few hours
before. He fell writhing, and died on the floor, under a dozen blows, as beasts die in the
shambles.

"Mère Royaume! Mère Royaume!" The cry--the last cry he heard--swelled louder and louder. It
swept through the gate, it passed through to the open, and bore far along the Corraterie, far
along the ramparts, ay, to the open country, the earnest of victory, the earnest of vengeance.

Geneva was saved. He who would have betrayed it, slain like Pyrrhus the Epirote by a woman's
hand, lay dead in the dark lane behind the house in which he had lived.

CHAPTER XXVI.

THE DAWN.

Anne was but one of some thousands of women who passed through the trial of that night; who
heard the vague sounds of disquiet that roused them at midnight grow to sharp alarms, and these
again--to the dull, pulsing music of the tocsin--swell to the uproar of a deadly conflict waged
by desperate men in narrow streets. She was but one of thousands who that night heard fate
knocking at their hearts; who praying, sick with fear, for the return of their men, showed
white faces at barred windows, and by every tossing light that passed along the lane viewed
long years of loneliness or widowhood.

But Anne had this burden also; that she had of herself sent her man into danger; her man, who,
but for her pleading, but for her bidding, might not have gone. And that thought, though she
had done her duty, laid a cold grip upon her heart. Her work it was if he lay at this moment
stark in some dark alley, the first victim of the assault; or, sorely wounded, cried for water;
or waited in pain where none but the stricken heard him. The thought bowed her to the ground,
sent her to her prayers, took from her alike all memory of the danger that had menaced her
this morning, and all consciousness of that which now threatened her, a helpless woman, if
the town were taken.

The house, having its back on the Rue de la Cité, at the point where that street joined the
Tertasse, stood in the heart of the conflict; and almost from the moment of the first attack
on the Porte Neuve, which Claude was in time to witness, was a centre of fierce and deadly
fighting. Anne dared not leave her mother, who, strange to say, slept through the early alarms;
and it was bowed on the edge of her mother's bed--that bed beside which she had tasted so much
of happiness and so much of grief--that she passed, not knowing what the turning page might
show, the first hour of anxiety and suspense.

The report of a shot shook her frame. A scream stabbed her like a knife. Lower and lower she
thrust her face amid the bed-clothes, striving to shut out sound and knowledge; or, woman-like,
she raised her pale, beseeching face that she might listen, that she might hope. If he fell
would they tell her? And how he fell, and where? Or would they hold her strange to him? Would
she never hear?

Suddenly her mother opened her eyes, lay a while listening, then slowly sat up and looked at
her. Anne saw the awakening alarm in the dear face, that in some mysterious way recalled its
youth; and she fancied that to her other troubles, the misery of one of the old paroxysms was
going to be added. At such an hour, with such sounds of terror filling the night, with such
a glare dancing on the ceiling the first attack had come on, years before. Then the alarm had
been fictitious; to-night the calamity which the poor woman had imagined, was happening with
every circumstance of peril and alarm.

But Madame Royaume's face, though anxious and serious, retained to an astonishing extent its
sanity. Whether the strange dream which she had had earlier in the night had prepared her for
the state of things to which she awoke, or the weeks and months which had elapsed since that
old alarm of fire dropped in some inexplicable way from her--and as one shock had upset, another
restored the balance of her mind--certain it is that Anne, watching her with a painful interest,
found her sane. Nor did Madame Royaume's first words dispel the impression.

"They hold out?" she asked, grasping her daughter's hand and pressing it. "They hold out?"

"Yes, yes, they hold out," Anne answered, hoping to soothe her. And she patted the hand that
clasped hers. "Have no fear, dear, all will go well."

"If they have faith and hold out," the aged woman replied, listening to the strange medley
of sounds that rose to them.

"They will, they will," Anne faltered.

"But there is need of every one!"

"They are gone, dear," the girl answered, repressing a sob with difficulty. "We are alone in
the house."

"So it should be," Madame Royaume replied, with sternness. "The man to the wall, the maid to
the pall! It was ever so!"

A low cry burst from Anne's lips. "God forbid!" she wailed. "God forbid! God have mercy!"

The next moment she could have bitten out her tongue; she knew that such words and such a cry
were of all others the most likely to excite her patient. But after some obscure fashion their
positions seemed this night to be reversed. It was the mother who in her turn patted her daughter's
hand and sought to soothe her.

"Ay, God forbid," she said softly. "But man must do his part. I mind when----" She paused.
Her eyes travelling round the room, fixed their gaze on the fireplace. She seemed to be perplexed
by something she saw there, and Anne, still fearing a recurrence of her illness, asked her
hurriedly what it was. "What is it; mother?" she said, leaning over her, and following the
direction of her eyes. "Is it the great pot you are looking at?"

"Ay," Madame Royaume answered slowly. "How comes it here?"

"There was no one below," Anne explained. "I brought it up this morning. Don't you remember?
There is no fire below."

"No?"

"That is all, mother. You saw me bring it up."

"Ay?" And then after a pause: "Let it down a hook."

"But----"

"Let it down, child!" And when Anne, to soothe her, had obeyed and let the great pot down until
the fire licked its sides, "Is it full?" Madame asked.

"Half-full, mother."

"It will do." And for a time the woman in the bed was silent.

Outside there was noise enough. The windows in the room looked into the Corraterie, from which
side no more than passing sounds of conflict rose to them; the pounding of running feet, sharp
orders, a shot, and then another. But the landing without the bedroom door looked down by a
high-set window into the narrow Tertasse; and from this, though the door was shut, rose an
inferno of noise, the clash of steel, the cries of the wounded, the shouts of the fighters.
The townsfolk, rallying from their first alarm, were driving the enemy out of the Rue de la
Cité, penning him into the Tertasse, and preparing to carry that street.

On a sudden there came, not a cessation of the uproar, but a change in its character. It was
as if the current of a river were momentarily stayed and pent up; and then with a mighty crashing
of timbers and shifting of pebbles, and a din as of the world's end, began to run the other
way. Anne's face turned a shade paler; so appalling was the noise, she would fain have stopped
her ears. But her mother sat up.

"What is it?" she asked eagerly. "What is it?"

"Dear mother, do not fret! It must be----"

"Go and see, child! Go to the window in the passage, and see!" Madame Royaume persisted.

Anne had no wish to go, no wish to see. She pictured her lover in the mêlée whence rose those
appalling cries; and gladly would she have hidden her head in the bedclothes and poured out
her heart in prayer for him. But Madame persisted, and she yielded, went into the passage and
opened the small window. With the cold air entered a fresh volume of sound. On the walls and
timbered gables opposite her--and so near that she could well-nigh touch them with her extended
arm--strange lights played luridly; and here and there, at dormers on a level with her, pale
faces showed and vanished by turns.

She looked down. For a moment, in the confusion, in the medley of moving forms, she could discern
little or nothing. Then, as her eyes became more accustomed to the sight, she made out that
the tide of conflict was running inward into the town, a sign that the invaders were gaining
the mastery.

"Well?" Madame Royaume asked, her voice querulous.

Anne strove to say something that would soothe her mother. But a sob choked her, and when she
regained her speech she felt herself impelled, she knew not why, to tell the truth. "I fear
our people are falling back," she murmured, trembling so violently that she could barely stand.

"How far? Where are they, child?" Her mother's voice was eager. "Where are they?"

"They are almost under the window!" And then withdrawing her head with a shudder, while she
clung for support to the frame of the window: "They are fighting underneath me now," she said.
"God pity them!"

"And who is--are we still getting the worst of it?"

Forced by a kind of fascination, Anne looked out again. "Yes, there is one man, a big man,
leads them on," she said, in the voice of one who, painfully absorbed in a sight, reports it
involuntarily. "He is driving our people before him. Ah! he has struck one down this moment.
He is almost underneath us now. But his people will not follow him! They are standing. He--he
waves them on!"

"He is beneath us?" Madame's voice sounded strangely near, strangely insistent. But Anne, wrapt
in what she saw, did not heed it.

"Yes! He is a dozen paces in front of his men. He is underneath us now. He urges them to follow
him! He towers above them! He is----"

She broke off; close to her sounded a heavy breathing, that even above the babel of the street
caught her ear. She drew in her head, looked, and, overwrought by that which she had been witnessing,
she shrieked aloud.

Beside her, bending under the weight of the great steaming pot, stood her mother! Her mother,
who had scarcely left her bedroom twice in a twelvemonth, nor crossed it as many times in a
week. But it was her mother; endowed at this pass, and for the instant, with supernatural strength.
For even as Anne recoiled thunderstruck, the old woman lifted the huge marmite, half-full and
steaming as it was, to the ledge of the window, steadied it there an instant, and then, with
the gleaming eyes and set pale face of an avenging prophetess, thrust it forth.

A second they gazed at one another with suspended breath. Then from the street below rose a
wild shriek, a crash, and lo, the huge pot lay shattered in the kennel beside the man whom,
Heaven directed, it had slain. As if the shock of its fall stayed for an instant even the movement
of the world, a silence fell on all: then, as the roar of conflict rose again, louder, more
vengeful, with a new note in it, she caught her mother in her arms.

"Mother! Mother!" she cried. "Mother!"

The elder woman was white to the lips. "Get me to bed!" she muttered. "Get me to bed!" She
had lost the power even to stand. That she had ever borne, even for a yard, the great pot which
it taxed Anne's utmost strength to carry upstairs was a miracle. But a miracle were all the
circumstances connected with the act.

Anne carried her back and laid her on the bed, greatly fearing for her. And thenceforth for
a while the girl's horizon, so wide and stormy an instant before, was narrowed to the bed beside
which she stood, narrowed to the dear face on which the lamplight fell, disclosing its death-like
pallor. For the time Anne forgot even her lover, was deaf to the struggle outside, was unmindful
of the flight of the hours. For her, Geneva might have lain at peace, the night been as other
nights, the house below been heavy with the breathing of tired sleepers. She looked neither
to the right nor the left, until under her loving hands Madame Royaume revived, opened her
eyes and smiled--the smile she had for one face only in the world.

By that time Anne had lost count of the time. It might be hard on morning, it might be a little
after midnight. One thing only was clear, the lamp required oil, and to get it she must descend
to the ground floor. She opened the door and listened, wondering dully how the conflict had
gone. She had lost count of that also.

The small window at the head of the stairs remained open as they had left it; and through it
a ceaseless hum, as of a hive of bees swarming, poured in from the night, and told of multitudes
astir. The alarm-bell had ceased to ring, the wilder sounds of conflict had died down; in the
parts about the Tertasse the combat appeared to be at an end. But this might be either because
resistance had ceased, or because the battle had rolled away to other quarters, or--which she
scarcely dared to hope--because the foe had been driven out.

As she stood listening, she shivered in the cold air that came from the window. She felt as
if she had been beaten, and knew that this came of the shocks she had suffered and the long
strain. She feared for her nerves, and hated to go down into the dark parts of the house as
if some danger lurked there. She longed for morning, for the light; and thought of Claude and
his fate, and wondered why the thought of his danger did not move her to weeping, as it had
moved her a few hours earlier.

In truth she was worn out. The effort to revive her mother had cost her the last remains of
strength. Her feet as she descended the stairs were of lead, the brazen notes of the alarm-bell
hummed in her ears. When she reached the living-room she set the lamp on one of the tables
and sat down wearily, with her eyes on the cold, empty hearth and on the settle where she had
sat with his arms about her. And now, if ever, she must weep; but she could not.

The lamp burned low, and cast smoky shadows on the ceiling and the walls. The shuttered windows
showed their dead faces. The cheerful soul of the room had passed from it with the fire, leaving
the shell gloomy, lifeless, repellent. Anne drowsed a moment in sheer exhaustion, and would
have slept, if the lamp on the point of expiring had not emitted a sound and roused her. She
rose reluctantly, dragged herself to the great cupboard under the stairs, and, having lighted
a rushlight at the dying flame, put out the lamp and refilled it.

She was about to re-light it, and had taken the rushlight in her hand for the purpose, when
she heard through the shuttered windows and the barred door a growing clamour; the tramp of
heavy feet, the hum of many voices, the buzz of a crowd that, almost as soon as she awoke to
its near presence, came to a stand before the house. The tumult of voices raised all at once
in different keys did not entirely drown the clash of arms; and while she stood, sullenly regarding
the door, and resigned to the inevitable, whatever it might be, thin shafts of light pierced
the shutters and stabbed the gloom about her.

With that a hail-storm of knocks fell on the door and on the shutters. A dozen voices cried,
"Open! Open!" The jangle of a halberd as its bearer let the butt drop heavily on the stone
steps added force to the summons.

Anne's first impulse was to retreat upstairs, and leave them to do their worst. Her next--she
was in a state of collapse in which resistance seemed useless--was to open. She moved to the
door, and with cold hands removed the huge bars and let down the chain. It was only when she
had done so much, when it remained only to unlock, that she wavered; that she trembled to think
on what the crowd might be bent, and what might be her fate at their hands. She paused then,
with her fingers on the key; but not for long. She remembered that, before she descended, she
had heard neither shot nor cry. Resistance therefore had ceased, and that of a single house,
held by two helpless women, could avail nothing, could but excite to fury and reprisals.

She turned the key and opened. The lights dazzled her. The doorway, as she stood faltering,
almost fainting, before it, seemed to be full of grotesque dancing faces, some swathed in bandages,
others powder-blackened, some hot with excitement, others pallid with fatigue. They were such
faces, piled one above the other, as are seen in bad dreams.

On the intruders' side, those who pressed in first saw a girl strangely quiet, who held the
door wide for them. "My mother is ill," she said in a voice that strove for composure; if they
were the enemy, her only hope, her only safety, lay in courage. "And she is old," she continued.
"Do not harm her."

"We come to do harm neither to you nor to her," a voice replied. And the foremost of the troop,
a thick dwarfish man with a huge two-handed sword, stood aside. "Messer Baudichon," he said
to one behind him, "this is the daughter."

She knew the fat, sturdy councillor--who in Geneva did not?--and through her stupor she recognised
him, although a great bandage swathed half his head, and he was pale. And, beginning to have
an inkling that things were well, she began also to tremble. By his side stood Messer Petitot--she
knew him, too, he had been Syndic the year before--and a man in hacked and blood-stained armour
with his arm in a sling and his face black with powder. These three, and behind them a dozen
others--men whom she had seen on high days robed in velvet, but who now wore, one and all,
the ugly marks of that night's work--looked on her with a strange benevolence. And Baudichon
took her hand.

"We do not come to harm you," he said. "On the contrary we come to thank you and yours. In
the name of the city of Geneva, and of all those here with me----"

"Ay! Ay!" shouted Jehan Brosse, the tailor. And he rang his sword on the doorstep. "Ay! Ay!"

"We come to thank you for the blow struck this night from this house! That it rid us of one
of our worst foes was a small thing, girl. But that it put heart into our burghers and strength
into their arms at a critical moment was another and a greater thing. Which shall not, if Geneva
stand--as stand by God's pleasure she shall, the stronger for this night's work--be forgotten!
The name of Mère Royaume will at the next meeting of the Greater Council be inscribed among
the names of those whom the Free City thanks for their services this night!"

A murmur of stern approval that began with those in the house rolled through the doorway and
was echoed by the waiting throng that filled the street.

She was weeping. All it meant, all it might mean, what warranty of powerful friends, what fame
beyond the reach of dark stories, or a woman's spite, she could not yet understand, she could
not yet appreciate. But something, the city's safety, the city's gratitude, the countenance
of these men who came to her door blood-stained, dark with smoke, reeling with fatigue--came
that they might thank her mother and do her honour--something of this she did grasp as she
wept before them.

She had but one thing to ask, to desire; and in a moment it was given her.

"Nor is that all!" The voice that broke in was harsher and blunter than Baudichon's. "If it
be true, as I am told, that a young man of the name of Mercier lives here? He does, does he?
Ay, he lives, my girl. He is safe, have no fear. For the matter of that he has nine lives,
and"--Captain Blandano continued with an oath--"he has had need of all this night, God forgive
me for the word! But, as I said, that is not all. For if there is any one man who has saved
Geneva, it is he, the man who let down the portcullis. And if the city does not dower you,
my girl----"

"The city shall dower her!" The speaker's voice came from somewhere in the neighbourhood of
the doorway, and was something tremulous and uncertain. But what it lacked in strength it made
up in haste and eagerness. "The city shall dower her! If not, I will!"

"Good, Messer Blondel, and spoken like you!" Blandano answered heartily. And though one or
two of the foremost, on hearing Blondel's voice, looked askance at one another, and here and
there a whisper passed of "The Syndic of the guard? How came----" the majority drowned such
murmurings under a chorus of applause.

"We are of one mind, I think!" Baudichon said. And with that he turned to the door. "Now, good
friends," he continued, "it wants but little of daylight, and some of us were best in our beds.
Let us go. That we lie down in peace and honour"--he went on, solemnly raising his hand over
the happy weeping girl beside him, as if he blessed her--"that our wives and children lie safe
within our walls is due, under God, to this roof. And I call all here to witness that while
I live the city of Geneva shall never forget the debt that is due to this house and to the
name of Royaume!"

"Ay, ay!" cried the bandy-legged tailor. "I too! The small with the great, the rich with the
poor, as we have fought this night!"

"Ay! Ay!"

Some shook her by the hand, and some called Heaven to bless her, and some with tears running
down their faces--for no man there was his common everyday self--did naught but look on her
with kindness. And so, each having done after his fashion, they trooped out again into the
street. A moment later, as the winter sun began to colour the distant snows, and the second
Sunday in December of the year 1602 broke on Geneva, the voices of the multitude rose in the
one hundred and twenty-fourth psalm; to the solemn thunder of which, poured from thankful hearts,
the assembly accompanied Baudichon to his home a little farther down the Corraterie.

Anne was about to close the door and secure it after them--with feelings how different from
those with which she had opened that door!--when it resisted her shaking hands. She did not
on the instant understand the reason or what was the matter. She pushed more strongly, still
it came back on her, it opened widely and more widely. And then one who had heard all, yet
had not shown himself, one who had entered with Baudichon's company, but had held himself hidden
in the background, pushed in, uninvited.

Uninvited? The rushlight still burned low and smokily, and she had not relighted the lamp.
The corners were dark with shadows, the hearth was cold and empty and ugly, the shutters still
blinded the windows. But the coming of this uninvited one--love comes ever unexpected and uninvited--how
strangely, how marvellously, how beautifully did it change all for her, light all, fill all.

As she felt his arms about her, as she clung to him, and sobbed on his shoulder, as she strove
for words and could not utter them for the happiness of her heart, as she felt his kisses rain
on her face in joy and safety, who had not left her in sorrow, no, nor in the shadow of death,
nor for any fears of what man could do to him--let it be said that her reward was as her trial.

Madame Royaume lived four years after that famous attack on the Free City of Geneva which is
called the Escalade; and during that time she experienced no return of the mysterious malady
that came with one shock, and passed from her with another. Nor, so far as can be ascertained
at the distant time at which I write, did the suspicions which the night of the Escalade found
in the bud survive it. Probably the Corraterie and the neighbouring quarter, ay, and the whole
city of Geneva, had for many a week to come matter for gossip and to spare. It is certain,
at any rate, that whatever whispers were current in this house or that, no tongue wagged openly
against the favourites of the council, who were also the favourites of the crowd. For Mère
Royaume's act hit marvellously the public fancy, and, passing from mouth to mouth, and from
generation to generation, is still the first, the best loved, and the most picturesque of the
legends of Geneva.

And Messer Blondel? Did he evade the penalty of his act? Ask any man in the streets of Geneva,
even to-day, and he will tell you the fate of Philibert Blondel, Fourth Syndic. He will tell
you how the magistrate triumphed for a time, as he had triumphed in the council before, how
he closed the mouths of his accusers, how not once, but twice and thrice, by the sheer force
and skill of a man working in a medium which he understood, he won his acquittal from his compeers.
But though punishment be slow to overtake, it does overtake at last; nor has the world witnessed
many instances more pertinent or more famous than that of Messer Blondel. Strive as he might,
tongues would wag within the council, and without. Silence as he might Baudichon and Petitot,
smaller men would talk; and their talk persisted and grew, and was vigorous when months and
even years had passed. What the great did not know the small knew or guessed, and fixed greedy
eyes on the head of the man who had dared to sell Geneva. The end came four years after the
Escalade. To conceal the old negotiation he committed a further crime, and being betrayed by
the tool he employed was seized and convicted. On the 1st September, 1606, he lost his head
on a scaffold erected before his own house in the Bourg du Four.

The Merciers had at least one son--probably he was the eldest, for he bore his father's name--who
lived into middle life, and proved himself their worthy descendant. For precisely fifty years
after the date of these events a poor woman of the name of Michée Chauderon was put to death
in Geneva, on a charge of sorcery; and among those--and they were not few--who strove most
manfully and most obstinately to save her, we find the name of a physician of great note in
the Canton at that time--one Claude Mercier. He did not prevail, though he struggled bravely;
the long night of superstition, though nearing its close, still reigned; that woman suffered.
But he carried it so far and so boldly that from that day to this--and the city may be proud
of the fact--no person has suffered death in Geneva on that dreadful charge.

THE END.

THE ABERDEEN UNIVERSITY PRESS LIMITED