"Supposing, then, you ride up with me in the automobile?"

"Certainly I will; shall we go up this forenoon?"

"Yes, I should like to go now. Mr. Buzzby, I shall be back this afternoon for a talk with you.
I want to make some definite arrangement for Ann and Hannah."

"I'll be here."

The two walked together to the driveway, and shortly the mellow note of the great Panhard's
horn sounded, as the automobile rounded the curve of The Bow and sped away to the north shore
highway and the sheds.

       *       *       *       *       *

Late that afternoon Aileen, with her baby daughter, Aurora, in her arms, was standing on the
porch watching for her husband's return. The usual hour for his home-coming had long passed.
She began to fear that the threatened trouble in the sheds, on account of the attempted introduction
of the automatic bush hammer, might have come to a crisis. At last, however, she saw him leave
the car and cross the bridge over the Rothel. His step was quick and firm. She waved her hand
to him; a swing of his cap answered her. Then little Aurora's tiny fist was manipulated by
her mother to produce a baby form of welcome.

Champney sprang up the steps two at a time, and for a moment the little wife and baby Aurora
disappeared in his arms.

"Oh, Champney, I'm so thankful you've come! I knew just by the way you came over the bridge
that things were going better at the sheds. You are so late I began to get worried. Come, supper's
waiting."

"Wait a minute, Aileen--Mother--" he called through the hall, "come here a minute, please."

Aurora Googe came quickly at that ever welcome call. Her face was even more beautiful than
formerly, for great joy and peace irradiated every feature.

"Where's Honoré?" he said abruptly, looking about for his boy who was generally the first to
run as far as the bridge to greet him. His wife answered.

"He and Billy went with Father Honoré as far as the power-house; he'll be back soon with Billy.
Sister Ste. Croix went by a few minutes ago, and I told her to hurry them home.--What's the
good news, Champney? Tell me quick--I can't wait to hear it."

Champney smiled down at the eager face looking up to him; her chin was resting on her baby's head.

"Mr. Van Ostend has been in the sheds to-day--and I've had a long talk with him."

"Oh, Champney!"

Both women exclaimed at the same time, and their faces reflected the joy that shone in the
eyes of the man they loved with a love bordering on worship.

Champney nodded. "Yes, and so satisfactory--" he drew a long breath; "I have so much to tell
it will take half the evening. He wishes to 'pay his respects,' so he says, to my wife and
mother, if convenient for the ladies to-morrow--how is it?" He looked with a smile first into
the gray eyes and then into the dark ones. In the latter he read silent pleased consent; but
Aileen's danced for joy as she answered:

"Convenient! So convenient, that he'll get the surprise of his life from me, anyhow; he really
must be made to realize that I am his debtor for the rest of my days--don't I owe the 'one
man on earth for me' to him? for would I have ever seen Flamsted but for him? And have I ever
forgotten the roses he dropped into the skirt of my dress twenty-one years ago this very month
when I sang the Sunday night song for him at the Vaudeville? Twenty-one years! Goodness, but
it makes me feel old, mother!"

Aurora Googe smiled indulgently on her daughter, for, at times, Aileen, not only in ways, but
looks, was still like the child of twelve.

Champney grew suddenly grave.

"Do you realize, Aileen, that this meeting to-day in the shed is the first in which we three,
Father Honoré, Mr. Van Ostend, and I, have ever been together under one roof since that night
twenty-one years ago when I first saw you?"

"Why, that doesn't seem possible--but it is so, isn't it? Wasn't that strange!"

"Yes, and no," said Champney, looking at his mother. "I thought of our first meeting one another
at the Vaudeville, as we three stood there together in the shed looking upwards to The Gore;
and Father Honoré told me afterward that he was thinking of that same thing. We both wondered
if Mr. Van Ostend recalled that evening, and the fact of our first acquaintance, although unknown
to one another."

"I wonder--" said Aileen, musingly.

Champney spoke abruptly again; there was a note of uneasiness in his voice:

"I wonder what keeps Honoré--I'll just run up the road and see if he's coming. If he isn't,
I will go on till I meet the boys. I wish," he added wistfully, "that McCann felt as kindly
to me as Billy does to my son; I am beginning to think that old grudge of his against me will
never yield, not even to time;--I'll be back in a few minutes."

Aileen watched him out of sight; then she turned to Aurora Googe.

"We are blest in this turn of affairs, aren't we, mother? This meeting is the one thing Champney
has been dreading--and yet longing for. I'm glad it's over."

"So am I; and I am inclined to think Father Honoré brought it about; if you remember, he said
nothing about Mr. Van Ostend's being here when he stopped just now."

"So he didn't!" Aileen spoke in some surprise; then she added with a joyous laugh: "Oh, that
dear man is sly--bless him!"--But the tears dimmed her eyes.

II

"Go straight home with Honoré, Billy, as straight as ever you can," said Father Honoré to eight-year-old
Billy McCann who for the past year had constituted himself protector of five-year-old Honoré
Googe; "I'll watch you around the power-house."

Little Honoré reached up with both arms for the usual parting from the man he adored. The priest
caught him up, kissed him heartily, and set him down again with the added injunction to "trot
home."

The two little boys ran hand in hand down the road. Father Honoré watched them till the power-house
shut them from sight; then he waited for their reappearance at the other corner where the road
curves downward to the highroad. He never allowed Honoré to go alone over the piece of road
between the point where he was standing and the power-house, for the reason that it bordered
one of the steepest and roughest ledges in The Gore; a careless step would be sure to send
so small a child rolling down the rough surface. But beyond the power-house, the ledges fell
away very gradually to the lowest slopes where stood, one among many in the quarries, the new
monster steel derrick which the men had erected last week. They had been testing it for several
days; even now its powerful arm held suspended a block of many tons' weight. This was a part
of the test for "graduated strain"--the weight being increased from day to day.

The men, in leaving their work, often took a short cut homeward from the lower slope to the
road just below the power-house, by crossing this gentle declivity of the ledge. Evidently
Billy McCann with this in mind had twisted the injunction to "go straight home" into a chance
to "cut across"; for surely this way would be the "straightest." Besides, there was the added
inducement of close proximity to the wonderful new derrick that, since its instalment, had
been occupying many of Billy's waking thoughts.

Father Honoré, watching for the children's reappearance at the corner of the road just beyond
the long low power-house, was suddenly aware, with a curious shock, of the two little boys
trotting in a lively manner down the easy grade of the "cross cut" slope, and nearing the derrick
and its suspended weight. He frowned at the sight and, calling loudly to them to come back,
started straight down over the steep ledge at the side of the road. He heard some one else
calling the boys by name, and, a moment later, saw that it was Sister Ste. Croix who was coming
up the hill.

The children did not hear, or would not, because of their absorption in getting close to the
steel giant towering above them. Sister Ste. Croix called again; then she, too, started down
the slope after them.

She noticed some men running from the farther side of the quarry. She saw Father Honoré suddenly
spring by leaps and bounds down over the rough ledge. What was it? The children were apparently
in no danger. She looked up at the derrick--

What was that! A tremor in its giant frame; a swaying of its cabled mast; a sickening downward
motion of the weighted steel arm--then--

"Merciful Christ!" she groaned, and for the space of a few seconds covered her eyes....

The priest, catching up the two children one under each arm, ran with superhuman strength to
evade the falling derrick--with a last supreme effort he rolled the boys beyond its reach;
they were saved, but--

Their savior was pinioned by the steel tip fast to the unyielding granite.

A woman's shriek rent the air--a fearful cry:

"Jean--mon Jean!"

A moment more and Sister Ste. Croix reached the spot--she took his head on her lap.

"Jean--mon Jean," she cried again.

The eyes, dimmed already, opened; he made a supreme effort to speak--

"Margot--p'tite Truite--"...

Thus, after six and forty years of silence, Love spoke once; that Love, greater than State
and Church because it is the foundation of both, and without it neither could exist; that Love--co-eval
with all life, the Love which defies time, sustains absence, glorifies loss--remains, thank
God! a deathless legacy to the toiling Race of the Human, and, because deathless, triumphant
in death.

It triumphed now....

The ponderous crash of the derrick followed by the screams of the two boys, brought the quarrymen,
the women and children, rushing in terrified haste from their evening meal. But when they reached
the spot, and before Champney Googe, running over the granite slopes, as once years before
he ran from pursuing justice, could satisfy himself that his boy was uninjured, at what a sacrifice
he knew only when he knelt by the prostrate form, before Jim McCann, seizing a lever, could
shout to the men to "lift all together," the life-blood ebbed, carrying with it on the hurrying
out-going tide the priest's loving undaunted spirit.

       *       *       *       *       *

All work at the quarries and the sheds was suspended during the following Saturday; the final
service was to be held on Sunday.

All Saturday afternoon, while the bier rested before the altar in the stone chapel by the lake
shore, a silent motley procession filed under the granite lintel:--stalwart Swede, blue-eyed
German, sallow-cheeked Pole, dark-eyed Italian, burly Irish, low-browed Czechs, French Canadians,
stolid English and Scotch, Henry Van Ostend and three of the directors of the Flamsted Quarries
Company, rivermen from the Penobscot, lumbermen from farther north, the Colonel and three of
his sons, the rector from The Bow, a dignitary of the Roman Catholic Church from New York,
the little choir boys--children of the quarrymen--and Augustus Buzzby, members of the Paulist
Order, Elmer Wiggins, Octavius Buzzby supporting old Joel Quimber, Nonna Lisa--in all, over
three thousand souls one by one passed up the aisle to stand with bared bowed head by that
bier; to look their last upon the mask of the soul; to render, in spirit, homage to the spirit
that had wrought among its fellows, manfully, unceasingly, to realize among them on this earth
a long-striven-for ideal.

Many a one knelt in prayer. Many a mother, not of English tongue, placing her hand upon the
head of her little child forced him to kneel beside her; her tears wet the stone slabs of the
chancel floor.

Just before sunset, the Daughters of the Mystic Rose passed into the church; they bore tapers
to set upon the altar, and at the head and foot of the bier. Two of them remained throughout
the night to pray by the chancel rail; one of them was Sister Ste. Croix. Silent, immovable
she knelt there throughout the short June night. Her secret remained with her and the one at
whose feet she was kneeling.

The little group of special friends from The Gore came last, just a little while before the
face they loved was to be covered forever from human gaze: Aileen with her four-months' babe
in her arms, Aurora Googe leading little Honoré by the hand, Margaret McCann with her boy,
Elvira Caukins and her two daughters. Silent, their tears raining upon the awed and upturned
faces of the children, they, too, knelt; but no sound of sobbing profaned the great peaceful
silence that was broken only by the faint chip-chip-chipping monotone from Shed Number Two.
In that four men were at work. Champney Googe was one of them.

He was expecting them at this appointed time. When he saw them enter the chapel, he put aside
hammer and chisel and went across the meadow to join them. He waited for them to come out;
then, taking the babe from his wife's arms, he gave her into his mother's keeping. He looked
significantly at his wife. The others passed on and out; but Aileen turned and with her husband
retraced her steps to the altar. They knelt, hand clasped in hand....

When they rose to look their last upon that loved face, they knew that their lives had received
through his spirit the benediction of God.

       *       *       *       *       *

Champney returned to his work, for time pressed. The quarrymen in The Gore had asked permission
the day before to quarry a single stone in which their priest should find his final resting
place. Many of them were Italians, and Luigi Poggi was spokesman. Permission being given, he
turned to the men:

"For the love of God and the man who stood to us for Him, let us quarry the stone nearest heaven.
Look to the ridge yonder; that has not been opened up--who will work with me to open up the
highest ridge in The Gore, and quarry the stone to-night."

The volunteers were practically all the men in the Upper and Lower Quarries; the foreman was
obliged to draw lots. The men worked in shifts--worked during that entire night; they bared
a space of sod; cleared off the surface layer; quarried the rock, using the hand drill entirely.
Towards morning the thick granite slab, that lay nearest to the crimsoning sky among the Flamsted
Hills, was hoisted from its primeval bed and lowered to its place on the car.

It was then that four men, Champney Googe, Antoine, Jim McCann, and Luigi Poggi asserted their
right, by reason of what the dead had been to them, to cut and chisel the rock into sarcophagus
shape. Luigi and Antoine asked to cut the cover of the stone coffin.

All Saturday afternoon, the four men in Shed Number Two worked at their work of love, of unspeakable
gratitude, of passionate devotion to a sacrificed manhood. They wrought in silence. All that
afternoon, they could see, by glancing up from their work and looking out through the shed
doors across the field, the silent procession entering and leaving the chapel. Sometimes Jim
McCann would strike wild in his feverish haste to ease, by mere physical exertion, his great
over-charged heart of its load of grief; a muttered curse on his clumsiness followed. Now and
then Champney caught his eye turned upon him half-appealingly; but they spoke no word; chip-chip-chipping,
they worked on.

