In a sense "Maurice Harte" is far other than the provincial study I have here outlined. Its
theme is allied, unquestionably, to that theme so much larger in its relations than that of
the spoiled priest, the theme of the rebellious son, the son who will live his own life no
matter what may be his parents' will. It is only allied to it, however, not to be identified
with it, because Maurice is too fearful of disappointing his parents, and too shrinking and
ineffectual, to go against his parents' will. In Ireland, as I have said elsewhere, such parental
will, by a survival of authority from the days of the clan system, was law until yesterday,
and there will therefore be those, I have no doubt, who will find in the play a conflict of
the old order and the new, but I do not believe such conflict was the author's intent. Indeed,
the play is wholly of the old order. No love of man and woman figures as motive in it as none
had figured in "Birthright." There is parental love, of course, in both plays, though in the
case of both parents in "Maurice Harte" and in the father in "Birthright" parental pride is
a stronger motive than parental love. Very true to Irish life is this absence of passion as
a deciding factor in the fates of man and woman, this insistence upon the importance of the
family, this subordination of the rights of the individual. Mr. Murray wished to write in "Maurice
Harte" a play of the very heart of Irish Catholic life, and such a play he has written, a play
that marks no decline, either in characterization or situation, from "Birthright," and to say
that is to give "Maurice Harte" praise of the highest.

MR. S. LENNOX ROBINSON

Mr. Lennox Robinson, like most of the Abbey Theatre dramatists, has chosen to write about the
ground under his feet. The son of a clergyman whose charges have been in the southwest of Ireland,
Mr. Robinson spent his boyhood and youth in the Bandon Valley. He had been trying his hand
at writing from the time that he was ten years old, editing an amateur magazine as he grew
older, feeling about for the thing that he could do. A visit of the Abbey Theatre Company to
Cork was the awakening. He saw a new acting, he saw a new art of the stage, and he knew as
he saw that it was in drama his work lay. It was not, however, for the Cork Dramatic Society
that he did his first play, but for the Abbey Theatre. "The Clancy Name" was put on on October
8, 1908, when its author was but four days past his twenty-second birthday. What this first
version was like I do not know, but Mr. Robinson has reprinted the second version, put on with
the full strength of the National Theatre Society at the Abbey Theatre on September 30, 1909.
As printed, it is an ironic little play, recording the great day in the life of the Widow Clancy,
the day on which she pays off a five years' loan and stands without a debt of any kind, her
farm all her own, the Clancy name respected throughout her world. But on this day of her triumph,
when she would add to her happiness by making a match for her son, John cannot rejoice with
her, and on her questioning him as to his moodiness he blurts out that he is the man who killed
James Power, a quiet man whose unexplained disappearance is the mystery of the countryside.
Worse yet, John insists that he will give himself up to the authorities. It is terrible to
know one's son a murderer; it is intolerable to think of a Clancy being hanged and of the glory
of the name forever departed. She persuades him finally not to tell, but he fears he will,
so, when the chance comes, he finds the only way out, the way of peace for his mother and peace
for himself. A car driven by a drunken neighbor is threatening the life of a little child playing
in the middle of the road. John Clancy pushes him out of the way and allows himself to be driven
down. They bring him to his mother's house still alive and raving incoherently of the murder,
but he dies before he tells his secret and the Clancy name is saved. It is not a very gripping
theme, but the play brings to us an acute character study of the typical managing woman of
the small farmer class. We feel her tireless energy, her drive, her high pride, assets of worth
in the fight to live. There is a little humor, natural and unforced, some picturesqueness of
phrase, a revelation of knowledge of life in one corner of Ireland. There is nothing, however,
in the play to make it comparable with the three that followed it on the stage of the Abbey
Theatre, "The Crossroads" (1909); "Harvest" (1910); and "Patriots" (1912). "The Lesson of Life,"
a little one-act comedy, presented at the Dun Theatre, Cork, December 2, 1909, Mr. Robinson
has disowned. Why I do not know, though the fact that it was not produced at the Abbey may
indicate that even at the time of its production he felt that it was not up to the level of
his work. Mr. Robinson has not republished "The Lesson of Life," but the reviews state that
it was an amusing little play, though in no way a serious reading of life.

"The Clancy Name," "The Crossroads," "Harvest," and "Patriots" are all on themes that hit home
at Irish institutions, and yet it would be wrong to say any one of them is basically either
satirical or propagandist. All are primarily readings of life. "The Crossroads" alone, perhaps,
is more than a reading of life. Certainly, after its needless prologue, it is fine art through
to the end. This scene, with its satire of Irish debating societies, is now, wisely, dropped
when the play is produced. We can learn enough of Ellen in the play itself to understand why
she does as she does without this picture of her in Dublin. Her story is that of a woman who
hates the much talk of patriotism in Dublin and the lack of doing anything tangible for Ireland.
In Dublin she has worked her way up from servant to assistant in a bookshop, but she goes back
happily to the country to give her sister a chance in town such as she has had, thinking that
perhaps she herself can lead her people into better ways of farming and of ordering their lives
generally through the knowledge she has got in town. It is through such as Ellen that the Irish
Industries Organization Society in actual life accomplishes an important part of its work.

