It has taken two hundred and thirty years to bring the cab-system of Paris to the point of
perfection to which it has now attained. In 1617 the only public means of locomotion was afforded
by a company which let out sedan-chairs. In 1640 a certain Nicholas Sauvage, agent for the
stage-coaches of Amiens, formed the plan of establishing carriages, harnessed and ready for
use at certain designated points, for the accommodation of the public. These vehicles were
christened fiacres, but the reason for their receiving this appellation remains unknown. Some
say it was because Sauvage occupied a house the façade of which was decorated with an image
of St. Fiacre: another and more probable solution of the mystery has been found in the fact
that just at that epoch a monk of the Petits Pères, called Fiacre, died in the odor of sanctity,
and his portrait was placed in all the new vehicles to protect them against accidents. Be this
as it may, the new enterprise proved successful, and in 1703 a law was passed compelling the
numbering of all public carriages. In 1753 there existed in Paris twenty-eight cab-stands and
sixty livery-stables, containing in all one hundred and seventy carriages. At present, Paris
possesses over eight thousand cabs and three thousand livery-stable carriages: these last are
generally very handsome vehicles, drawn by spirited, well-kept horses and driven by stylish-looking
coachmen. The public vehicles of Paris, exclusive of the omnibuses, may be divided into three
classes. First, the voitures de place, which are permitted, on payment of an annual tax of
three hundred and sixty-five francs, to stand at one of the one hundred and fifty-eight points
designated by the police; these bear a yellow number. Secondly, the voitures mixtes, which
may at will be hired from a livery-stable or stand or ply upon the public highway; these bear
a red number. And thirdly, the voitures de remise, which can only be hired from a stable, and
are prohibited from appearing on the stands; these also are numbered in red, but in a particular
style, so that a policeman at a glance can distinguish the difference between the voitures
mixtes and those of the last category. To this latter class belong the stunning and splendid
equipages which may be hired for any period, extending from a few hours to an indefinite number
of months, and which enable the stranger to make as fine a display of equipages and liveries
as the wealthiest resident of the city. The first two classes, the cabs properly so called,
are, however, the most interesting to the transient visitor to Paris or to the permanent resident
with a purse of moderate dimensions.

The cabs of Paris, as a rule, are comparatively neat and comfortable, those belonging to the
Compagnie Générale des Voitures (of which institution more anon) being carefully brushed and
cleaned every day. In winter a two-seated coupé lined with dark cloth or with leather, and
drawn by a single horse, is the usual style of vehicle offered for the accommodation of the
public. The price of such a vehicle is thirty cents for a "course" or single unbroken trip,
which may be from one side of Paris to the other, or forty cents an hour. The coachman is bound
by law to give the person engaging him a square ticket on which is printed his number and the
exact amount of his fare: this last, however, being stated as varying under certain conditions
and at certain hours, is apt to be rather puzzling to the inexperienced traveler, particularly
if he or she be ignorant of French. Four-seated carriages are hard to find in winter: they
are drawn by two horses, and the fare is ten cents more on the course and by the hour than
that of the two-seated ones. In summer the coupés are replaced by light, open, four-seated
carriages, with a hood and with leather curtains, to be used in case of rain; and they are
really pleasant and comfortable vehicles. The horses do not differ much from the style of cab-horses
known all over the world, being thin, shabby and dismal-looking animals as a general thing,
though exceptions to the rule are not uncommon.

The cabmen of Paris form a distinct class, a separate society, composed of all sorts of elements--a
turbulent, indocile, rebellious set of men, always in revolt against their employers and against
the law, which holds them with an iron and inflexible grasp. Most of them are Communists, though
many of them are men belonging to the higher classes of society, whom dissipation, extravagance
or misfortune has driven to this mode of gaining a living. Thus, it is a well-known fact that
the son of a distinguished diplomat, an ambassador to more than one foreign court, is now a
cab-driver, and not a particularly good one. Unfrocked priests, unsuccessful school-teachers,
small bankrupt tradesmen, swell the ranks, the personnel of which is mainly composed of servants
out of place or of provincials who have come to Paris to seek their fortune. These last come
mostly from Normandy, Auvergne and Savoy; and it has been noticed that the Savoyards are the
most sober and docile of all. The Parisian cabman is always under the surveillance of the police:
a policeman stationed on every stand watches each cab as it drives off, and takes its number
to guard as far as possible against any overcharge or peculation. In case of a collision and
quarrel or an accident the ubiquitous policeman is always at hand to take the numbers of the
vehicles whose drivers may be concerned in the affair. Complaints made by passengers are always
attended to at once, and immediate redress is pretty sure to follow. The cabman is generally
gruff and surly, and, though seldom seen drunk, in the majority of cases is addicted to drink--a
vice which the exposed nature of his calling palliates if it does not wholly excuse. Some cabmen
are devoted to newspaper reading, and may be seen engaged perusing the Rappel or the Événement
while awaiting the appearance of a fare or stationed before the door of a shop or a picture-gallery.
Others prefer to nap away their leisure moments, and may be seen, half sitting, half lying
on their boxes, and sound asleep. It is rather a curious process to pass slowly along the line
of a Parisian cab-stand and observe the faces of the men. Every variety and type of countenance--from
the Parisian "Jakey" with villainous eyes, sharp features and black soaplocks, to the jolly
old patriarch, gray and stout, and somewhat stiff in the joints, who has been a cab-driver
for over forty years perhaps--presents itself to your view. The best way to engage a cab is
by observing the face of the driver, not the condition of the vehicle or that of the horse.
The Parisian cabmen wear no uniform, the high glazed hat being the only article of attire which
is universally adopted. Even the red waistcoat, once a distinctive mark of their calling, is
gradually falling into disuse, and every variety of coat and overcoat may be seen, liveries
past private service being very generally adopted. Any overcharge may be reclaimed by the passenger
by the simple process of making a complaint before the nearest chef de police. In past days
the coachman thus complained against was forced to go in person to the complainant to beg his
or her pardon, and to pay over the extra sum demanded. A frightful catastrophe which occurred
some twenty years ago put an end to this form of retribution. On the 16th of September, 1855,
M. Juge, director of the normal school at Douai, took a cab in the Place de la Concorde and
went for a drive in the Bois de Boulogne. The driver, one Collignon, insisted on being paid
more than his legal fare, and M. Juge forwarded his complaint to the prefecture of police the
next day. Collignon was condemned to make restitution in person to M. Juge. He sold his furniture,
purchased a pair of pistols and went on the appointed day to the house of M. Juge in the Rue
d'Enfer. No hard words passed between them, but while the gentleman was in the act of signing
the receipt the coachman drew out one of his pistols and shot him through the head, killing
him instantly. Collignon was at once arrested: he was tried and condemned to death, and expiated
his crime on the scaffold on the 6th of December following. Since that event another system
of restitution has been followed, the sum exacted in excess of the legal fare being deposited
at the prefecture of police, whither the traveler is compelled to go in quest of it.

At the prefecture of police is likewise situated the storehouse of articles forgotten or left
behind in public carriages. According to the law, every coachman is commanded to inspect carefully
his carriage after the occupant has departed, and to deposit every article left therein, were
it but an odd glove, in the storehouse above mentioned. Each object is inscribed in a register
and bears a particular number, and the number of the cab in which it was left as well. These
articles fill a large room, whereof the contents are ever changing, and which is always full.
Umbrellas, muffs, opera-glasses, pocket-books (sometimes containing thousands of francs) are
among the most usual deposits. In one year there were found in the cabs of Paris over twenty
thousand objects, among which were six thousand five hundred umbrellas. Should the article
bear the address of the owner, he is at once apprised by letter of its whereabouts; otherwise,
it is kept till called for, and if never claimed it becomes the property of the city at the
end of three years, and is sold at auction. A vast row of underground apartments is appropriated
to the unclaimed articles--dim cellar-rooms, lighted with gas. There may be seen umbrellas
by the hundred or the thousand, strapped together in bundles and stacked up like fagots. Everything
is registered, numbered and catalogued, and if returned to the owner his address and the date
of delivery are carefully noted. The strict surveillance of the police contributes greatly
toward keeping the Parisian cabman honest. Instances are on record where costly sets of jewels,
bags of napoleons and pocket-books crammed with bank-notes have been faithfully deposited at
the prefecture by their finders. On the other hand, an anecdote is told of a cab-driver in
whose vehicle a gentleman chanced to leave his pocket-book, containing fifty thousand francs
which he had just won at play. He traced his cabman to the stable, where he was in the act
of feeding his horse, opened the carriage-door, and found his pocket-book lying untouched upon
the floor. On learning what a prize he had missed the coachman incontinently hung himself.

The great source of supply for public vehicles in Paris is the Compagnie Générale des Voitures,
one of the most gigantic of the great enterprises of Paris. It possesses five thousand cabs
and over two thousand handsome and stylish voitures de remise. It furnishes every style; of
carriage for hire, from the superb private-looking barouche or landau, with servants in gorgeous
livery and splendid blooded horses, or the showy pony-phaeton and low victoria of the cocotte
du grand monde, down to the humble one-horse cab. This beneficent company will furnish you,
if desired, with a princely equipage, with armorial bearings, family liveries, etc., all complete
and got up specially to suit the ideas of the hirer. Nine-tenths of the elegant turnouts in
Paris are supplied in this manner. There is a regular tariff for everything: each additional
footman costs so much, there is a fixed charge for powder, for postilions, for a chasseur decked
with feathers and gold lace. You can be as elegant as you please without purchasing a single
accessory of your equipage.

The cab-horses of the Compagnie Générale are usually brought from Normandy, and belong to a
specially hardy race, such a one being needed to endure the privations and trials to which
a Parisian cab-horse is exposed. Each horse has to be gradually initiated into the duties of
his new calling: he has to be trained to eat at irregular hours, to sleep standing, and to
endure the fatigues of the Parisian streets. Were the country-bred horse to be put at once
to full city work, he would die in a week. He is first sent out for a quarter of a day; then
after a week or two for half a day; then for a whole day; and when accustomed to that he is
considered fit for night-work. The horses of the Compagnie Générale remain in the stable one
day out of every three. If well fed, well kept and well looked after, the life of a Paris cab-horse
may be prolonged from three to five years, but the latter is the extreme limit.

The Compagnie Générale not only buys its own horses, but constructs its own carriages. Its
coachmen are obliged to pass through a preliminary examination, not only as to their capabilities
for driving, but as to their knowledge of the streets of Paris. But the passage of the law
of 1866 has let loose upon the community a swarm of ignorant coachmen, who, assuming the reins
and whip, in some instances without any knowledge even of the great thoroughfares of Paris,
will lead their unhappy hirer a pretty dance, particularly if he or she is a stranger on a
first visit to the great city. I know of one instance where a lady, desirous of visiting the
Pare Monceau, was taken to the extreme northern boundary of the city limits, and was only rescued
by the intervention of the police. Then one must be very particular as to the pronunciation
of the name of the street, as so many streets exist in Paris the names of which closely resemble
each other when spoken, such as the Rue de Téhéran and the Rue de Turin, the Rue du Marl and
the Rue d'Aumale, etc. And if your coachman can make a mistake, you may rest assured he will do it.

The Parisian cab is not, like its London compeer, a prohibited pariah of a vehicle, excluded
from parks or the court-yards of palaces. You can go to call at the Élysée or to attend a ball
there in a cab if you like, and the Bois de Boulogne or the Pare Monceau is as free to that
plebeian vehicle as to the landau of a prince. And if one attends a ball in Paris, there is
no need to engage a carriage to return home in. Attracted by the lights, the cabmen station
their vehicles in long lines in the neighborhood of any mansion where such a festivity is taking
place, waiting patiently till three, four and five o'clock in the morning for a chance of conveying
home some of the merrymakers. The only instance in which I ever heard of their failing to be
on hand on such an occasion was at a large fancy ball where the German was kept up till six
o'clock in the morning. The gay troupe issued forth into the golden glowing sunshine of the
April morning, and found not a single cab in attendance; so powdered and brocaded Marquises,
white-satin clad "Mignons," Highlanders, Turks and Leaguers were forced to walk to their homes,
in many instances miles away, to the immense amusement of the street-sweepers and naughty little
boys, the only Parisians astir at that hour of the city's universal repose.

L.H.H.

A NEW MUSEUM AT ROME.

A new museum of sculpture at Rome! One would have thought that it could hardly be needed. Besides
three vast collections--that of the Lateran, that of the Capitol, and that wondrous world of
antique sculpture at the Vatican, itself, in fact, three museums, and each of the three alone
matchless in the world--we have the work of the hands that lived and worked here a couple of
thousands of years ago in every villa, in every garden, almost at every corner. And yet we
need, and have just established, another museum of ancient sculpture. We are now cutting new
lines of streets--not, as you are doing, on the surface of a soil that has never been moved
save by the forces of Nature since first the Creator divided the sea from the dry land, but--among
the débris of the successive civilizations of more than three thousand years. The laying of
our gas- and water-pipes breaks the painting on the walls of banquet-halls whose last revel
was disturbed by the irruption of the barbarian. Our "main drainage" lies among the temples
of gods whose godlike forms are found mutilated and prostrate among the fallen columns and
tumbled architraves and cornices of their shrines.

But if no awe of the mighty past prevents the speculator and contractor of our day from marching
his army of excavators in an undeviating and unyielding line impartially athwart the temples,
the palaces, the theatres, the baths of the perished world beneath their feet, yet in these
days of ours the work is done reverently, at least so far as not only to respect, but to gather
up with the most scrupulous care, every available fragment of the art, and even of the common
life, of those vanished generations. If the day shall come when some future people shall yet
once again build their city on this same eternal site, and some future social cataclysm shall
have overwhelmed the works and civilization of the present time, those future builders will
not find walls constructed in great part of the fragments of statues and the richly-carved
friezes of yet older builders and artists, as we have found. The Romans of the present day
are, it must be admitted, fully alive to the inappreciable value of the wondrous heritage they
possess in this kind; and every fragment of it is carefully and jealously gathered and stored.
And hence is the need of a new museum, and hence will be the need of other new museums--who
shall say how many? For truly this Roman soil seems inexhaustible in buried treasures. There
seems no likelihood that the vein should be exhausted or die out. Every now and then the excavators
come upon "a fault," as the miners say, but the vein is soon struck again.

And so the new museum at the Capitol has been rendered necessary. It was inaugurated on the
25th of February in this year. It consists of twelve rooms or galleries, part of which occupy
the site of the apartments which used to contain the archives, now moved to other quarters,
and part, including a large octagonal hall, the principal feature of the new museum, have been
newly constructed on ground which used to be the garden of the Conservatori, the ancient municipal
officers of the city, so called. The entrance is by the main staircase of the palazzo of the
Conservatori, which is the building that forms the side of the square of the Capitol to the
right hand of the visitor as he ascends the magnificent flight of steps from the Via di Ara
Coeli. The steep sides of the Capitoline Hill on either side of these steps has been recently
turned into a very well-kept and pretty garden, among the lawns and shrubberies of which the
attention of the stranger, as he ascends, may be attracted by a neatly-painted iron cage in
front of the mouth of a little cavern in the rock, which is inhabited by a she-wolf in memorial
of the earliest traditions of the place. Memorials, indeed, are not wanting at every step,
and from the first window of the staircase as the visitor ascends to the museum on the first
floor he may look down on the Tarpeian Rock.

The public functionaries of all sorts here do so much of their work in a manner which gives
rise to much discontentment among the Romans, and would by the people of better-ruled countries
be deemed wholly intolerable, that it is a pleasure to be able to say that upon this occasion
the municipality has done what it had to do thoroughly well. The galleries and rooms of the
new establishment are decorated in admirably good taste in the Pompeian style, the walls being
colored in panels and borders of blue and red on a buff ground. They are excellently well lighted,
and the visitor is not hunted round the rooms by an attendant anxious only to get his tedious
task over, but is allowed to wander about among the treasures around him at his own discretion,
and to spend the whole day there, or as much of it as lies between 10 A.M. and 3 P.M., if he
pleases. A sufficient catalogue, accompanied by a map of the place, is purchasable at the doors
for a couple of francs, and the visitor is required to pay half a franc for his entrance. This
last regulation is in accordance with a law recently passed by the legislature establishing
an entrance-fee at the doors of all public galleries and museums throughout Italy. Heretofore
the entrance to all such places was entirely free. But, seeing that the country really needs
the assistance to be obtained from this source, it cannot be said to be acting otherwise than
reasonably in making such a charge; and probably no one of the thousands who come to Italy
to profit by her artistic treasures will ever grudge the payment of the small fee demanded;
the only question being whether the measure is on the whole a profitable one financially, of
which I do not feel quite sure.

The first landing-place of the vast staircase and the ante-room at the top of it are lined
with the more interesting and perfect of the pagan inscriptions which the recent movements
of the soil have brought to light. Of course, the majority of these present no specialties
distinguishing them from the thousands of similar inscriptions with which the world has long
since been familiar. But there are some among them which contribute useful fragments of knowledge
to the attempts of our antiquaries to construct a satisfactory plan of the ancient city--dedications
of statues, showing what god or goddess inhabited such or such a shrine, and the like. The
letters of these inscriptions have been rendered more easily legible by restoring the scarlet
coloring of them, as has been done in the case of those at the Vatican.

The visitor next enters a very long corridor or gallery giving access to the various halls
and rooms, and adorned with a series of modern busts of the men of whom Italy has most reason
to be proud. Some among them are of much merit.

Then comes the gallery of the bronzes. In this department the late finds have been very numerous
and extremely interesting. Among the objects which will immediately attract the visitor's eye
as he enters the principal room are a litter and a biga or chariot. In both cases of course
only fragments of the bronze remain, but they are sufficient to have enabled skilled antiquaries
to reconstruct the entire litter and the entire chariot. The latter is very specially interesting.
The plates of embossed and chiseled bronze which encased the body of the chariot are figured
with admirably-worked subjects in basso-rilievo, many of them relating to the "wondrous tale
of Troy." This invaluable specimen was the gift to the museum of that eminent and liberal archæologist,
Signor A. Castellani, of whose matchless collection of Etruscan jewelry I wrote in a former
number of this Magazine. The remaining portions of the bronze- and iron-work of the litter,
with its arrangement of poles for carrying it, somewhat after the fashion of a sedan-chair,
though the whole of the apparatus is much lighter, are more fragmentary, but yet sufficient
for the reconstruction of a specimen illustrative to the classical reader of many a passage
in the ancient writers. Under No. 10 the visitor will find the small statue of an hermaphrodite
in bronze, fashioned as the bearer of a lamp--a statue of very great delicacy and beauty.

The next room is that of the medals and coins, the number of which will probably surprise the
visitor not a little. The gold coins and the better-preserved and more interesting specimens
are shown single under cleverly-arranged glass cases. The more ordinary results of the finds
which are almost daily being made have been consigned in promiscuous heaps to huge glass vases,
whose tops, however, are carefully sealed down. The large collections of the æs rude signatum
of the consular and of the imperial families, in bronze, in silver and in gold, together with
some mediæval specimens, are ranged around the walls.

Then we come to the sculpture, the main scope of the new museum, which is distributed in a
large vestibule, in a noble octagonal central hall and in a long gallery. It was an excellent
idea, adding much to the interest which every stranger in Rome will take in the museum, to
place on each specimen a placard specifying the locality in which it was discovered and the
date of the finding. And this information is admirably supplemented by a map hung against the
wall showing in detail the relative positions of all the places which have yielded up these
long-buried treasures. The number of specimens of sculpture is in all one hundred and thirty-three;
and it is impossible, without letting this notice run to an immoderate length, to attempt to
give an adequate account of the various objects, or even of the principal among them. There
is a richly-ornamented and very characteristic head of Commodus, which really looks as if it
might have come from the sculptor's hands yesterday. A colossal bust of Mæcenas, also the gift
of Signor Castellani, a bust of Tiberius, a small statue of the child Hercules, a Venus Anadyomene,
may be, and many others might be, mentioned. The last-named is a very lovely statue of a young
girl entirely nude. The archæologists have chosen to call it a Venus, but it is to my thinking
clear that it never was intended for the laughter-loving goddess. The expression of the face
is perfectly and beautifully chaste, and indeed a little sad. I should say that it must have
been a nymph coming from the bath, and just about to clothe herself with the drapery thrown
over a broken column at her knee as soon as she shall have completed the arrangement of her
tresses, with which her hands are (or, alas! were, for the arms are wanting) engaged.

Room No. 10 contains a very extensive and most interesting collection of ancient pottery. There
are many of the painted vases with which the world has become so well acquainted, and which,
as being the more showy objects, will on his first entrance attract the eye of the visitor.
But if he will with loving patience examine the vast numbers of utensils of every sort which
have been with the utmost care sifted, one might almost say, from out of the mass of débris
which the recent excavations have thrown up, he will find an amount of suggestive illustration
of the old pagan life of two thousand years ago which cannot fail to interest and instruct him.

T.A.T.

OUR FOREIGN SURNAMES.

It is interesting as well as amusing to read the foreign names upon the signs in the streets
of our cities and towns, and observe the number of nationalities thereon represented, together
with the peculiarities of form and meaning displayed by the names themselves.

German names meet the eye everywhere, and are usually very outlandish in appearance, while
many of them have significations which are conspicuously and ludicrously inappropriate. For
example, a lager-beer saloon in one of our large cities is kept by Mr. Heiliggeist ("Holy Ghost");
a cigar-shop in another place belongs to Mr. Priesterjahn ("Prester John"); while the pastor
of a devout German flock in a third locality is the Rev. Mr. Wuestling ("low scoundrel"). The
Hon. Carl Schurz, too, is hardly the sort of man to be named "apron," though it is certainly
true that his name is in this country sometimes pronounced "Shirts."

Other branches of the great Teutonic family have many representatives among us, and their names
seem, to the uninitiated, even more fearfully and wonderfully constructed than those of their
German cousins. It produces a good deal of surprise in the mind of an American to see on the
sign of a tradesman from Belgium the familiar name of Cox spelled "Kockx;" and the Norwegian
patronymic Trondhjemer ("Drontheimer"), though a very mild specimen of the language, has a
formidable aspect to the general beholder.

The German-Hebrew names display such an exuberant Eastern fancy in their composition as to
suggest the inquiry whether they are not really but German translations of their possessors'
original Oriental titles. It is not unlikely that this was the origin of names like Rosenthal
("Vale of Roses"), Lilienhain ("Meadow of Lilies"), Liebenstrom ("Stream of Love"), and Goldenberg
("Golden Mount").

The Teutonic names, whether German, Scandinavian or Flemish, do not, as a rule, seem by any
means so unpronounceable as those pertaining to foreigners of Slavonic race. The Russian, Polish
and Bohemian appellations, which occur frequently in some sections of our country, so often
begin with the extraordinary combination cz that many Americans, believing that nothing but
a convulsive sneeze could meet the necessities of such a case, decline trying to pronounce
them at all. But the difficulties which these Slavonic names apparently offer would, in a great
measure, be removed by a uniform system of orthography. The combination cz, for instance, corresponds
to our ch, and the Polish cognomen Czajkowski becomes much less exasperating when spelled,
as it would be in English, "Chycovsky." The same thing is true, to a great extent, of the Hungarian
names, which are not rare in our larger cities. They, too, would be greatly simplified to us
by being spelled according to English rules. A very frequent combination in Hungarian names,
that of sz is really the same as our ss; while s without the z is pronounced sh. The Hungarian
name Szemelenyi under our system of spelling would therefore be "Semelenye," which is less
discouraging.

The foreign names in the United States that really present the most serious difficulties to
the native citizen are unquestionably the Welsh. Some of the obstacles to easy pronunciation
may even in their case be removed by adaptation to our orthography; as is shown by the name
Hwg ("hog"), which would be spelled by us "Hoog." But there are so many sounds in Welsh that
are not only unknown, but almost inconceivable to English-speaking people, that the difficulties
would still be very far from being overcome. And some of these peculiar utterances are expressed
in Welsh by combinations of the Roman characters which in English stand for familiar and simple
sounds; so that an attempt to reduce the two languages to a common system of spelling would
not be at all easy. The combination ll stands in Welsh for a terrific gurgling, gasping sound,
which when once heard swiftly puts an end to all the romantic associations that the name of
Llewellyn has derived from history and poetry.

But all such foreign--or, more strictly speaking, un-English--names, after being in this country
a generation or two, become, in a certain sense, "acclimated." They undergo a change in pronunciation,
in spelling, or in both, which removes, in effect, the difficulties that originally characterized
them. In this way the German names Schneider, Meyer, Kaiser, Kraemer, Schallenberger, Schwarzwaelder,
and a host of others have become, respectively, Snyder, Myers, Keyser, Creamer, Shellabarger,
Swartswelder, etc. Sometimes, too, an American name more or less similar in sound or meaning
has been taken or given in place of the original German title; as when Loewenstein ("Lion-rock")
was exchanged for Livingston, and Albrecht ("Albert") for Allbright.

The old "Knickerbocker" names of the Middle States have, in most instances, retained their
Dutch spelling intact, but have generally been subjected to a similar process of adaptation
in sound. The same may be said of the French names in this country. Their spelling has, as
a rule, been preserved, while their sound has been Americanized. In this way De Rosset has
acquired the pronunciation Derrozett, and Jacques has come to be called either Jaquess or Jakes.
Many French patronymics, such as the old South Carolina Huguenot name Marion, exhibiting nothing
peculiarly French in their forms, are now pronounced entirely in accordance with our rules,
and their national origin is preserved by tradition alone. Some French titles, however, having
undergone only a partial change in pronunciation, survive in a hybrid form as to sound, though
their spelling remains unaltered. Specimens of this class may be found in such names as Huger,
pronounced "Huzhée;" Fouché, commonly called "Fooshée;" and Deveraux or Devereux, now converted
into "Débro" or "Dévroo." The only very noticeable change that has taken place in the orthography
of our French names is that the article has been joined to the noun in many cases where they
were originally separate. In this way La Ramie, La Rabie, La Reintrée, etc. are now usually
spelled Laramie, Larabie (or, in some instances, Larrabee), Lareintree, etc.; the pronunciation
of the newer form being Americanized in the usual way. But this change in form is one which
might easily have occurred even in France.

Most of these French and Dutch names have been in the country for a comparatively long time,
and, indeed, many of them date back to the early colonial period. Like the Spanish-American
names of Texas, California, Florida and Louisiana, to which the same rule generally applies,
they belonged to members of organized foreign communities, proportionately large enough to
preserve their names from a complete assimilation with the ideas of the English-American population.
And in a lesser degree this is also true of those early German emigrants, mainly from the Palatinate,
who settled in Pennsylvania, Western Maryland and the Shenandoah Valley.

The tendency at the present day, however, seems to be strongly in favor of the process mentioned
first--that of changing the sound of the names to suit American ears, and altering the spelling
so as to conform to the new pronunciation. There is every indication that this will be done
with regard to a very large majority of the foreign surnames that have been introduced among
us within the last fifty years, or which may be brought into our country in the future. And
as the changes so made are quite arbitrary, the result will be that the future student of American
nomenclature will often be sorely puzzled by some of the surnames to which his attention shall
be drawn.

W.W.C.

THE NEW FRENCH ACADEMICIAN.

No institution of its kind holds so eminent a place in the esteem of a great country as the
Académie Française. The elections are always a matter of interest, largely shared by the cultivated
Revue-des-Deux-Mondes-reading world of both hemispheres; and the last election was one which
excited fully as much attention as most of its predecessors. M. John Lemoinne, who at length
summoned up courage to present himself as a candidate, was born in London in Waterloo year,
1815, and has for a long period, probably thirty years, been, through the Journal des Débats,
in some sort a European power. His selection to fill the seat of M. Jules Janin is in every
way appropriate. Indeed, it seems strange that he should have been contented to wait until
he was sixty-one to come forward for that distinction.

The foundation of the Academy is directly traceable to the meetings of men of science at the
house of M. Courart--who, early in the seventeenth century, was for forty years its first secretary--but
it unquestionably owes to Richelieu a habitation and a name. It was formed with the special
object of preserving accuracy in the French language, to which Frenchmen have been wont to
pay an almost exclusive attention, but by the election of M. Lemoinne the Academy will have
at least one member who is no less acquainted with another tongue.

Every one will remember old Miss Crawley's rage when she found that Becky was trading on her
connection with the democratic-aristocratic spinster to make her way into the Faubourg St.
Germain. Too impatient to write in French, the old lady posted off a furious disavowal of the
little adventuress in vigorous vernacular, but, adds the author, as Madame la Duchesse had
only passed twenty years in England, she didn't understand one word. It may be hoped that the
new Academician will, in conjunction with the new minister of public instruction, Mr. Waddington,
who is a Rugby and Cambridge man, have some effect in arousing his countrymen to the study
which they have heretofore so strangely neglected of a tongue which threatens to obliterate
in time the inconveniences occasioned by the Tower of Babel. English is every day more and
more spoken, and French less and less.

In delivering his address of welcome to M. Lemoinne, M. Cavillier Fleury said: "You are one
of the creators of the discussion of foreign affairs in the French papers: you gave them the
taste for interesting themselves in the concerns of foreign countries. Few of us before steam
had shortened distance really knew England. Voltaire had by turns glorified and ridiculed it;
De Staël had shown it to us in an agreeable book; the witty letters of Duvergier de Hauranne
had revealed the secrets of its electoral system. Your correspondence of 1841 completed the
work." He might pertinently have added, "Because you are about the only French newspaper writer
who ever thoroughly understood the English language, and could thus avoid ridiculous blunders."

It has been observed that the Débats almost exclusively supplies the Academy with its contingent
of publicists--a circumstance accounted for by that journal being jealous of the purity of
its language, and in other respects preserving a high and dignified standard. It has, indeed,
for an unusually long period enjoyed its reputation. French and Belgian newspapers are very
much of a mystery to an Anglo-Saxon. They seem to flourish under conditions impracticable to
American or English journals. The Indépendance Belge and the Journal des Débats lie before
us. Neither of them contains sufficient advertisements to make up three of our columns, yet
their expenses must, we should suppose, especially in the case of the Débats, published as
it is where prices are so high, be very large. Both these papers contain articles evidently
the work of able hands, and in the case of the Indépendance the foreign correspondence must
be a very costly item, forming, as it frequently does, five columns of a large page. The price
of each is twenty centimes--high, certainly, for a single sheet.

It has often been observed, too, that French newspaper-men seem exceptionally well off. They
frequent costly cafés, occasionally indulge in petits soupers in cabinets particuliers, and,
altogether, taking prices into account, appear to be in the enjoyment of larger means than
their brethren of the pen elsewhere. Of course, the success of a French newspaper is, even
in the absence of advertisements, intelligible in the case of the Figaro or Petit Journal,
with their circulation of 70,000 and 150,000 a day; but in the case of such papers as the Débats,
whose circulation is not very large, it is difficult to explain.

The position of a journalist in Paris seems to stand in many respects higher than elsewhere.
Of course, the fact of contributions not being anonymous adds immeasurably to the writer's
personal importance, if it also gets him into scrapes. Elsewhere, editors are men of mark,
and certainly no one in the journalistic world can possibly be made more of than Mr. Delane
in London. But the editorial writers in his paper, who would in Paris be men of nearly as much
mark as rising members of Parliament in England, are completely "left out in the cold," gaining
no reputation even among acquaintance, since they are required to preserve the strictest secrecy
as to their connection with the paper. Altogether, we are disposed to believe that Paris--official
"warnings," press prosecutions and possible duels notwithstanding--must be accepted as the
journalist's paradise. To be courted, caressed and feared is as much as any reasonable newspaper
writer can expect, and a great deal more than he is likely to get out of his work elsewhere.

R.W.

LITERATURE OF THE DAY.

Cities of Northern and Central Italy. By Augustus J.C. Hare. New York: George Routledge & Sons.

Those who know Mr. Hare's Walks in Rome and Days near Rome will welcome another series of Italian
itineraries from the same pen. These volumes are primarily guide-books; they tell us the best
hotels, the price of cabs, the distances by rail or high-road. But the parts of traveler and
manual are inverted: whereas you take your Murray or Baedeker in your hand and carry it whither
you list, Mr. Hare takes you by the hand, leads you in the way you should go, makes you pause
the requisite time before the things you are to look at, points to every view, lets you miss
no effect, does not force his own opinions upon you, except now and then when he loses his
temper a little on the debatable ground between religion and politics, repeats that quotation
you are vainly trying to recall, or delights you by the beauty and aptness of a new one. He
gives to a course of systematic sight-seeing the freedom and variety of a ramble with a cultivated
and sympathetic companion. We would not be ungrateful to that inestimable impersonality, Murray,
for all are his debtors, even Mr. Hare for the plan of his books; but, remembering how, with
the latest edition in hand, we have panted up four or more flights of stairs in a Roman or
Venetian palace in search of a picture removed years before, we are not sorry to find him here
taken to task for leaving uncorrected statements which had ceased to be true. Moreover, Murray
is no guide in matters of art; his authorities are often captains of the British Philistines;
while Mr. Hare generally gives all that has been said by competent judges, sometimes imperturbably
recording two conflicting opinions, and leaving the reader to decide. The range of quotation
is indeed remarkable, from Dean Milman to Ouida, including many writers too little known in
this country, such as Burckhardt, Ampère and Street.

But it is not to the actual traveler only that these volumes will be of use and give pleasure.
They are not bad preparatory reading for those who are going abroad, suggesting what should
be studied beforehand; they will be dear to those who sit within the blank limits of a home
in this raw New World trying to revive the fading outlines and colors of scenes which, though
unforgotten, tend to mingle with the visions of Dreamland; and they are capital wishing-carpets
for those who can travel only in fancy. In the introduction there is an excellent passage on
the distinctive differences between the great Italian cities: "Each has its own individual
sovereignty; its own chronicles; its own politics, domestic and foreign; its own saints, peculiarly
to be revered--patrons in peace and protectors in war; its own phase of architecture; its own
passion in architectural material, brick or stone, marble or terra-cotta; ...its own proverbs,
its own superstitions and its own ballads." Mr. Hare contrives to convey much of the characteristic
impression of each town. Pretty little wood-cuts are called in to his aid, but the best illustrations
of his text are the poetical quotations and exquisite prose-bits from Ruskin, Swinburne, Symonds
and others whose pens sometimes turn into the pencil of a great painter. The author's own descriptions
are extremely faithful and charming. To those who have made the journey from Florence to Rome
a single fine page of the introduction brings back a thrill of that long ecstasy. In these
few quiet words he spreads Thrasymene before us: "It has a soft, still beauty especially its
own. Upon the vast expanse of shallow pale-green waters, surrounded by low-lying hills, storms
have scarcely any effect, and the birds which float over it and the fishing-boats which skim
across its surface are reflected as in a mirror. At Passignano and Torricella picturesque villages,
chiefly occupied by fishermen, jut out into the water, but otherwise the reedy shore is perfectly
desolate on this side, though beyond the lake convents and villages crown the hills which rise
between us and the pale violet mountains beyond Montepulciano." Nothing can be more lifelike
than the following picture of the tract around Siena: "Scarcely do we pass beyond the rose-hung
walls which encircle the fortifications than we are in an upland desert, piteously bleak in
winter, but most lovely when spring comes to clothe it. The volcanic nature of the soil in
these parts gives a softer tint than usual to the coloring. The miles upon miles of open gray-green
country, treeless, hedgeless, houseless, swoop toward one another with the strangest sinuosities
and rifts and knobs of volcanic earth, till at last they sink in faint mists, only to rise
again in pink and blue distances, so far off, so pale and aërial, that they can scarcely be
distinguished from the atmosphere itself. Only here and there a lonely convent with a few black
cypress spires clustered round it, or a solitary cross which the peasants choose as their midday
resting-place, cuts the pellucid sky. Here in these great uplands, where all is so immense,
the very sky itself seems more full of space than elsewhere: it is not the deep blue of the
South, but so soft and aërial that it looks as if it were indeed the very heaven itself, only
very far away."

The chapter on Ravenna is the best in the book: it is an admirable piece of work, a complete
monograph. Everything is there--history, legends, art--and the quotations and illustrations
are peculiarly beautiful and convincing.

Mr. Hare, like many gentlemen of similar tastes and tendencies, does not seem to have a strong
sense of humor, although now and then he condescends to smile as he repeats some local legend,
such as that of the crucifix at S. Francesco delle Cariere, which awoke an overwearied devotee,
who had fallen asleep on his knees before it, with "un soavissimo schiaffo," the gentlest slap,
and bade him go to sleep in the dormitory. He speaks of an ancient custom, not mentioned by
Murray, of harboring lost cats in the cloister of San Lorenzo at Florence: "The feeding of
the cats, which takes place when the clock strikes twelve, is a most curious sight.... From
every roof and arch and parapet-wall, mewing, hissing and screaming, the cats rush down to
devour." It sounds like a wicked parody on the poetic assembling of the Venetian pigeons at
the daily scattering of grain in the square of St. Mark's.

