We have two reports from General Barry: one, on "The Organization of the Artillery of the Army
of the Potomac"; the other, a "Report of the Operations of the Artillery at the Siege of Yorktown."
Of the services of the artillery during the remainder of the campaign we have no record from
its chief; but they were conspicuous on every battle-field, and will not be forgotten until
Malvern Hill shall have passed into oblivion.

After the first Battle of Bull Run, the efforts of the nation were directed to organizing an
army for the defence of the national capital. Of men and money we had plenty; but men and money,
however necessary they may be, do not make an army. Cannon, muskets, rifles, pistols, sabres,
horses, mules, wagons, harness, bridges, tools, food, clothing, and numberless other things,
are required; but men and money, with all this added matériel of war, still will not make an
efficient army. Organization, discipline, and instruction are necessary to accomplish this.
At the time of which we speak the people of this country did not comprehend what an army consisted
of, or, if they did, they comprehended it as children,--by its trappings, its men and horses,
its drums and fifes, its "pomp and circumstance."

Few even of our best officers who had honestly studied their profession had ever seen an army,
or fully realized the amount of labor that was necessary, even with our unbounded resources,
to organize an efficient army ready for the field. Happily for our country, there were some
who in garrison had learned the science and theory of war, and in Mexico, or in expeditions
against our Western Indians, had acquired some knowledge of its practice. Of these General
McClellan was selected to be the chief. He had seen armies in Europe, and it was believed that
he could bring to his aid more of the right kind of experience for organization than any other
man. If there is any one thing more than another for which General McClellan is distinguished,
it is his ability to make an army. Men may have their opinions as to his genius or his courage,
his politics or his generalship; they may think he is too slow or too cautious, or they may
say he is not equal to great emergencies; but of his ability to organize an army there is a
concurrent opinion in his favor.

By himself, however, he would have been helpless. He required assistance. He was obliged to
have chiefs of the several arms about him,--a chief of engineers, of artillery, of cavalry,
and chiefs of the several divisions of infantry.

General Barry was his chief of artillery. To him was assigned the duty of organizing this arm
of the service. We learn from his Report, that, "when Major-General McClellan was appointed
to the command of the 'Division of the Potomac,' July 25th, 1861, a few days after the first
Battle of Bull Run, the whole field-artillery of his command consisted of no more than parts
of nine batteries, or thirty pieces of various, and, in some instances, unusual and unserviceable
calibres. Most of these batteries were also of mixed calibres. My calculations were based upon
the expected immediate expansion of the 'Division of the Potomac' into the 'Army of the Potomac,'
to consist of at least one hundred thousand infantry. Considerations involving the peculiar
character and extent of the force to be employed, the probable field and character of operations,
the utmost efficiency of the arm, and the limits imposed by the as yet undeveloped resources
of the nation, led to the following general propositions, offered by me to Major-General McClellan,
and which received his full approval."

These propositions in brief were,--

1st. "That the proportion of artillery should be in the ratio of at least two and a half pieces
to one thousand men."

2d. "That the proportion of rifled guns should be one-third, and of smooth bores two-thirds."

3d. "That each field-battery should, if practicable, be composed of six guns."

4th. "That the field-batteries were to be assigned to 'divisions,' and not to brigades."

5th. "That the artillery reserve of the whole army should consist of one hundred guns."

6th. "That the amount of ammunition to accompany the field-batteries was not to be less than
four hundred rounds per gun."

7th. That there should be "a siege-train of fifty pieces."

8th. "That instruction in the theory and practice of gunnery, as well as in the tactics of
the arm, was to be given to the officers and non-commissioned officers of the volunteer batteries,
by the study of suitable text-books, and by actual recitations in each division, under the
direction of the regular officer commanding the divisional artillery."

9th. That inspections should be made.

Such, with trifling modifications, were the propositions upon which the artillery of the Army
of the Potomac was organized; and this organization finds its highest recommendation in the
fact that it remains unchanged, (except very immaterially,) and has been adopted by all other
armies in the field. The sudden and extensive expansion of the artillery of the Army of the
Potomac, that occurred from July 25, 1861, to March, 1862, is unparalleled in the history of
war. Tabulated, it stands thus:--

                              Batteries,   Guns      Men    Horses
                              parts of

July 25, 1861                   9            30       650       400
  imperfectly equipped.

March, 1862                    92           520    12,500    11,000
  fully equipped and in readiness for actual field-service.

Well may General Barry and the officers of the Ordnance Department, who had, as it were, to
create the means of meeting the heavy requisitions upon them, be proud of such a record. It
is one of the most striking exponents of the resources of the nation which the war has produced.

Of this force thirty batteries were regulars and sixty-two volunteers. The latter had to be
instructed not only in the duties of a soldier, but in the theory and practice of their special
arm. Defective guns and matériel furnished by the States had to be withdrawn, and replaced
by the more serviceable ordnance with which the regular batteries were being armed. Boards
of examination were organized, and the officers thoroughly examined. Incompetency was set aside,
zeal and efficiency rewarded by promotion.

"Although," says General Barry, "there was much to be improved," yet "many of the volunteer
batteries evinced such zeal and intelligence, and availed themselves so industriously of the
instructions of the regular officers, their commanders, and of the example of the regular battery,
their associate, that they made rapid progress, and finally attained a degree of proficiency
highly creditable."

At the siege of Yorktown, as has already been stated, only one of the fifteen batteries was
permitted to open fire on the enemy's works. This was armed with one hundred- and two hundred-pounder
rifled guns, and it is remarkable that this is the first time the practicability of placing,
handling, and serving these guns in siege-operations, and their value at the long range of
two and a half to three miles, were fully demonstrated. These guns, as also the thirteen-inch
sea-coast mortars, which were placed in position ready for use, were giants when compared with
the French and English pigmies which were used at Sebastopol.

General Barry, as well as General Barnard, complains of the want of rank of his officers. With
the immense artillery force that accompanied the Army of the Potomac to the Peninsula, consisting
of sixty batteries of three hundred and forty-three guns, he had only ten field-officers, "a
number obviously insufficient, and which impaired to a great degree the efficiency of the arm,
in consequence of the want of rank and official influence of the commanders of corps and divisional
artillery. As this faulty organization can only be suitably corrected by legislative action,
it is earnestly hoped that the attention of the proper authorities may be at an early day invited
to it."

When the report of General McClellan is published, the services of the artillery of the Army
of the Potomac will doubtless fill a conspicuous place. These services were rendered to the
commanders of divisions and corps, giving them an historic name, and in their reports we may
expect the artillery to be honorably mentioned. General Barry says, in conclusion,--"Special
detailed reports have been made and transmitted by me of the general artillery operations at
the siege of Yorktown,--and by their immediate commanders, of the services of the field-batteries
at the Battles of Williamsburg, Hanover Court-House, and those severely contested ones comprised
in the operations before Richmond. To those several reports I respectfully refer the Commanding
General for details of services as creditable to the artillery of the United States as they
are honorable to the gallant officers and brave and patient enlisted men, who, (with but few
exceptions,) struggling through difficulties, overcoming obstacles, and bearing themselves
nobly on the field of battle, stood faithfully to their guns, performing their various duties
with a steadiness, a devotion, and a gallantry worthy the highest commendation."

REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES.

Mental Hygiene. By I. RAY, M. D. Boston: Ticknor & Fields.

Dr. Ray, as many of our readers may know, is a physician eminent in the speciality of mental
disorders. He is at present the head of the Butler Hospital for the Insane in Providence, Rhode
Island. The four first chapters of his book, chiefly relating to matters which may be observed
outside of a hospital, come under our notice. The fifth and last division, addressed to the
limited number of persons who are conscious of tendencies to insanity, has no place in an unprofessional
review.

This little treatise upon "Mental Hygiene" carries its own evidence as the work of a disciplined
mind, content to labor patiently among the materials of exact knowledge, and gradually to approximate
laws in the spirit of scientific investigation. Mental phenomena are analyzed by Dr. Ray as
material substances are analyzed by the chemist,--though, from the nature of the case, with
far less certainty in results. Yet there is scarcely anything of practical moment in the book
which may not be found in the popular writings of other prominent men,--such, for example,
as Brodie, Holland, Moore, Marcel, and Herbert Spencer. We say this in no disparagement; there
is no second-hand flavor about these cautious sentences. Dr. Ray has investigated for himself,
and his conclusions are all the more valuable from coinciding with those of other accurate
observers. It is agreeable to chronicle a contrast to that flux of quasi-medical literature
put forth by men who have no title (save, perhaps, a legal one) to affix the M. D. so pertinaciously
displayed. For there has lately been no lack of books of quotations, clumsily put together
and without inverted commas, designed to puff some patent panacea, the exclusive property of
the compiler, or of volumes whose claim to originality lay in the bold attempt to work off
a life-stock of irrelevant anecdotes, the miscellaneous accumulations of a country-practitioner.
Such authors--by courtesy so called--are possibly well-meaning amateurs, but can never be mistaken
for scientists. We thank Dr. Ray for a book which, as a popular medical treatise, is really
creditable to our literature.

Yet, mixed with much admirable counsel hereafter to be noticed, there are impressions given
in this volume to which we cannot assent. And our chief objection might be translated into
vulgar, but expressive parlance, by saying, that, in generalizing about society, the writer
does not always seem able to sink the influences of the shop. We have been faintly reminded
of the professional bias of Mr. Bob Sawyer, when he persuaded himself that the company in general
would be better for a blood-letting. We respectfully submit that we are not quite so mad as--for
the interests of science, no doubt--Dr. Ray would have us. The doctrine, that, do what he will,
the spiritual welfare of man is in fearful jeopardy, is held by many religionists: we are loath
to believe that his mental soundness is in no less peril. Yet a susceptible person will find
it hard to put aside this book without an uncomfortable consciousness, that, if not already
beside himself, the chances of his becoming so are desperately against him. For what practicable
escape is offered from this impending doom? Shall we leave off work and devote ourselves to
health? Idleness is a potent cause of derangement. Shall we engage in the hard and monotonous
duties of an active calling? Paralysis and other organic lesions use up professional brains
with a frequency which is positively startling. Shall we cultivate our imagination and make
statues or verses? The frenzy of artists and poets is proverbial. At least, then, we may give
our life-effort to some grand principle which shall redeem society from its misery and sin?
Quite impossible! The contemplation of one idea, however noble, is sure to produce a morbid
condition of the mind and distort its healthy proportions. Still there is a last refuge. By
fresh air and vigorous exercise a man may surely keep his wits. We will labor steadily upon
the soil, and never raise our thoughts from the clod we are turning! Even here the Doctor is
too quick for us, and cries, "Checkmate!" with the fact that the Hodges of England and the
agriculturists of Berkshire have a great and special gift at lunacy.

Of course, the preceding paragraph is very loosely written. We cheerfully admit that it might
be impossible to quote from the book any single proposition to which, taken in a certain sense,
a reasonable man would object. Nevertheless, there is a total impression derived from it which
we cannot feel to be true. There is no sufficient allowance for the fact that what is most
spirited and beautiful and worthy in modern society comes from that diversity of human pursuits
which necessitates the concentration of individual energy into narrow channels. Neither to
balance his mind in perfect equilibrium, nor to keep his body in highest condition, is the
first duty of man upon earth. The Christian requirement of self-sacrifice often commands him
to risk both in service to his neighbor. Besides, as we shall presently show, men of equal
capacity in other branches of human inquiry do not agree with what seems to be Dr. Ray's estimate
of the highest sanity. When we are warned to avoid "men of striking mental peculiarities,"
(our author advancing the proposition that such association is not entirely harmless to the
most hardy intellect,)--when we are called upon to ostracize those who think that their short
lives on earth can be most useful to others by exclusive devotion to some great principle or
regenerating idea,--the thoughtful reader will question the instruction. The adjectives "extreme"
and "fanatical" have, during the last twenty years, been applied to most valuable men of various
parties and beliefs; they have been so applied by masses of conventionally respectable and
not insincere citizens. But that the persons thus stigmatized have, on the whole, advanced
the interests of civilization, freedom, and morality, we fervently believe.

It is in a very different direction that keenest observers have seen the real peril of modern
society. De Tocqueville has solemnly warned our Democracy of that over-faith in public opinion
which tends to become a species of religion of which the Majority is the prophet. John Stuart
Mill has emphasized his conviction that the boldest individuality is of the utmost importance
to social well-being, and has urged its direct encouragement as peculiarly the duty of the
present time. Herbert Spencer has written most eloquent warnings on the danger of perverting
certain generalizations upon society into a law for the private citizen. He has declared that
the wise man will regard the truth that is in him not as adventitious, not as something that
may be made subordinate to the calculations of policy, but as the supreme authority to which
all his actions should bend. He has shown us that the most useful citizens play their appointed
part in the world by endeavoring to get embodied in fact their present idealisms: knowing that
if they can get done the things aimed at, well; if not, well also, though not so well. Now
our complaint is, that Dr. Ray generalizes upon the limited class of facts which has come under
his professional observation. There may be a feeble folk who have gone mad over Mr. Phillips's
speeches or Mrs. Dall's lectures. This is not the place to discuss the methods or ends of either
of these conspicuous persons. But shall we make nothing of the possible numbers of young men,
plunging headlong at the prizes of society after the manner which Dr. Ray so intelligently
deprecates, who have waked to a new standard of success by seeing one with talents which could
gain their coveted distinctions passing them by to pursue, in uncompromising honesty of conviction,
his solitary way? Shall we not consider the city-bred girls, confined in circles where the
vulgar glitter of wealth was mitigated only by the feeblest dilettanteism,--spirited young
women, falling into a morbid condition, whose pitiableness Dr. Ray has well illustrated,--who
have yet been strengthened to possess their souls in health and steadiness by a voice without
pleading in their behalf the right to choose their own work and command their own lives? When
we are warned against those who come to regard it "as a sacred duty to vindicate the claims
of abstract benevolence at all hazards, even though it lead through seas of blood and fire,"
our adviser is either basing his counsel upon the very flattest truism, or else intends to
indorse a popular cry against men who claim to have founded their convictions on investigation
the most thorough and conscientious. Take the vote of the wealth and education of Europe to-day,
and Abraham Lincoln will be pronounced a fanatic vindicating the claims of abstract benevolence
"through seas of blood and fire." Go back into the past, and consult one Festus, a highly respectable
Roman governor, and we shall learn that Paul was beside himself, nay, positively mad, with
his much learning. We repeat that it is for the infinite advantage of society that exceptional
men are impelled to precipitate their power into very narrow channels. The most eminent helpers
of civilization have been penetrated by their single mission,--they have known that in concentration
and courage lay their highest usefulness. Let us not judge men who are other than these. We
will not question the importance of a Goethe, with his scientific amusements, stage-plays,
ducal companionships, and art of taking good care of himself; but we cannot deny at least an
equal sanity to the "fanatic" Milton, who deemed it disgraceful to pursue his own gratification
while his countrymen were contending against oppression, who was content to sacrifice sight
in Liberty's defence, and to live an "extreme" protester against the profligacies of power
and place.

But we linger too long from the solid instruction of this book. Dr. Ray considers the existence
of insanity or remarkable eccentricity in a previous generation a prolific source of mental
unsoundness. He addresses words of most solemn warning to those who have not yet formed the
most important connection in life. A brain free from all congenital tendencies to disease results
from a rigid compliance with the laws of parentage. The intermarriage of those related by blood
is no uncommon cause of mental deterioration. Dr. Ray thinks that the facts collected in France
and America upon this point are much more conclusive than a recent Westminster reviewer will
allow. We are told that in this country the mingling of common blood in marriage is more frequent
than is generally supposed, and that, of all agencies which have to do with the prevalence
of insanity and idiocy, this is probably the most potent. A vigorous body is of course an important
condition to high mental health, and what is said upon this head is tersely written and very
sensible. We are told that "those much-enduring men and women who encountered the privations
of the colonial times have been succeeded by a race incapable of toil and exposure, whom the
winds of heaven cannot visit too roughly without leaving behind the seeds of dissolution."
Here and elsewhere Dr. Ray cites the passion for light and emotional literature as a proof
of our degeneracy. We have certainly nothing to say in behalf of that quality of modern character
produced by the indolent reading of sensational writing. Still it may be questioned whether
the enormous supply of bad books has not increased the demand for good ones,--just as quacks
make practice for physicians. The readers of the Ledger stories have learned to demand a weekly
instalment of the good sense and sobriety of Mr. Everett. And we are disposed to accept the
view of a late American publisher, who declared that as a business-transaction he could not
do better than subscribe to the diffusion of spasmodic literature, since it directly promoted
the sale of the best authors in whose works he dealt. The craving for an intense and exciting
literature Dr. Ray attributes to "feverish pulse, disturbed digestion, and irritable nerves."
No doubt he is right,--within limits. But may not a healthy laborer find in the startling effects
of the younger Cobb refreshment as precisely adapted to idealize his life, and divert his thoughts
from a hard day's work, as that for which the college-professor seeks a tragedy of Sophocles
or a romance of Hawthorne?

The chapter treating of "Mental Hygiene as affected by Physical Influences" begins with such
warnings against vitiated air as all intelligent people read and believe,--yet not so vitally
as to compel corporations to reform their halls and conveyances. The remarks upon diet have
a very practical tendency. Dr. Ray, while declining to commit himself to any theory, is very
emphatic in his leanings towards what is called vegetarianism. He questions the popular impression
that hard-working men require much larger quantities of animal food than those whose employments
are of a sedentary character. Although confessing that we lack statistics from which to establish
the relative working-powers of animal and vegetable substances, Dr. Ray declares that the few
observations which have met his notice are in favor of a diet chiefly vegetable. The late Henry
Colman was satisfied that no men did more work or showed better health than the Scotch farm-laborers,
whose diet was almost entirely oatmeal. In the California mines no class of persons better
endure hardships or accomplish greater results than the Chinese, who live principally on vegetable
food. It is also noticed, as pertinent to the point, that the standard of health is probably
much higher among the people just named than among our New-England laborers. Dr. Ray sums up
by saying that "there is no necessity for believing that the supply required by the waste of
material which physical exercise produces cannot be as effectually furnished by vegetable as
by animal substances." This is strong testimony from a physician of standing and authority.
Not otherwise have asserted various reform-doctors who are not supposed to move in the first
medical circles. The value of any approximate decision of the vegetarian question can hardly
be overestimated. There are thousands of families of very moderate means who strain every nerve
to feed their children upon beef and mutton,--and this with the tacit approval, or by the positive
advice, of physicians in good repute. Can our children be brought up equally well upon potatoes
and hasty-pudding? May the two or three hundred dollars thus annually saved be better spent
in a trip to the country or a visit to the sea-side? He would be a benefactor to his countrymen
who could affirmatively answer these questions from observations, statistics, and arguments
which commanded the assent of all intelligent men.

Dr. Ray forcibly exhibits the radical faults of our common systems of education. He exposes
the vulgar fallacy, that the growth and discipline of the mind are tested by the amount of
task-work it can be made to accomplish. The efficiency of a given course of training is indicated
by the power and endurance which it imparts,--not by such pyrotechny as may be let off before
an examining committee. The amount of labor in the shape of school-exercises habitually imposed
on the young strains the mind far beyond the highest degree of healthy endurance. This is shown
by illustrations which our limits compel us to omit: they are worthy to be pondered by every
conscientious parent and teacher in the land. Our national neglect of a right home-education
brings Dr. Ray to a train of remarks which sustains what we were led to say in noticing Jean
Paul's "Levana" a few months ago. "How many of this generation," writes our author, "complete
their childhood, scarcely feeling the dominion of any will but their own, and obeying no higher
law than the caprice of the moment! Instead of the firm, but gentle sway that quietly represses
or moderates every outbreak of temper, that checks the impatience of desire, that requires
and encourages self-denial, and turns the performance of duty into pleasure,--they experience
only the feeble and fitful rule that yields to the slightest opposition, and rather stimulates
than represses the selfish manifestations of our nature." The criticism is just. It is to parents,
rather than to children, that our educational energies should now address themselves. For what
school-polish can imitate the lustre of a youth home-reared under the authority of a wise and
commanding love? But our adult-instruction must go deeper than a recommendation of the best
scheme of household discipline the wit of man can devise. Be the government as rigid as it
may, the children will imitate the worst portions of the characters disclosed in the family.
The selfish and worldly at heart will find it wellnigh impossible to endow their children with
high motives of action.

We cordially indorse what is said of those harpy-defilers of knowledge known as juvenile books.
A limited use of the works of Abbott, Edgeworth, Sedgwick, and a very few others may certainly
be permitted. But the common practice of removing every occasion for effort from the path of
the young--of boning and spicing the mental aliment of our fathers for the palates of our sons--would
be a ridiculous folly, if it were not a grievous one. Suitable reading for an average boy of
ten years may be found in the best authors. For it is well observed by Dr. Ray, that, if the
lad does not perceive the full significance of Shakspeare's thoughts or the deepest harmony
of Spenser's verse, if he does not wholly appreciate the keen sagacity of Gibbon or the quiet
charm of Prescott, he will, nevertheless, catch glimpses of the higher upper sphere in which
a poet moves, and fix in his mind lasting images of purity and loveliness, or he will learn
on good authority the facts of history, and feel somewhat of its grandeur and dignity. To the
sort of reading which naturally succeeds the Peter-Parley dilutions of wisdom we can only allude
to thank Dr. Ray for speaking so clearly and to the point.

But it becomes necessary to pass over many pages which we had marked for approving comment.
In conclusion it may be said that this treatise on Mental Hygiene is full of wholesome rebukes
and valuable suggestions. Yet the impression of New-England, or even of American life, which
a stranger might receive from it, would be lamentably false. In a special department, Dr. Ray
is an able scientist. To a wide-embracing philosophy he does not always show claims. There
has been heart-sickening corruption in all prosperous societies,--especially in such as have
been debauched by complicity with Slavery. It is the duty of some men of science and benevolence
to be ever probing among the defilements of our fallen nature, to breathe the tainted air of
the lazar-house, to consort with madness and crime. Few men deserve our respect and gratitude
like these. But let them be cheered by remembering that in the great world outside the hospital
there are still elements of worthiness and nobility. Wealth was never more wisely liberal,
talents were never held to stricter accountability, genius has never been more united with
pure and high aims, than in the Loyal States to-day. The descendants of "those much-enduring
men and women of colonial times" have not shown themselves altogether "incapable of toil and
exposure." From offices and counting-rooms, from libraries and laboratories, our young men
have gone forth to service as arduous as that which tried their fore-fathers. How many of them
have borne every hardship and privation of war, every cruelty of filthy prisons and carrion-food,
yet have breasted the slave-masters' treason till its bullet struck the pulse of life! Let
us remember that the most divergent tendencies of character, even such as we cannot associate
with an ideal poise of mind, may work to worthiest ends in this ill-balanced world of humanity.
The saying of Novalis, that health is interesting only in a scientific point of view, disease
being necessary to individualization, shows one side of the shield of which Dr. Ray presents
the other. By George Allen, Greek Professor in the University of Pennsylvania. With a Supplementary
Essay on Philidor as Chess-Author and Chess-Player, by Tassilo von Heydebrand und der Lasa,
Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the King of Prussia at the Court of Saxe-Weimar.
Philadelphia. E. H. Butler & Co. 12mo. pp. xii., 156. $1.50.

Spots on the Sun; or, The Plumb-Line Papers. Being a Series of Essays, or Critical Examinations
of Difficult Passages of Scripture; together with a Careful Inquiry into Certain Dogmas of
the Church. By Rev. T. M. Hopkins, A. M., Geneva, N. Y. Auburn. William J. Moses. 16mo. pp.
367. $1.00.

Frank Warrington. By the Author of "Rutledge." New York. G. W. Carleton. 12mo. pp. 478. $1.50.

Husband and Wife; or, The Science of Human Development through Inherited Tendencies. By the
Author of "The Parent's Guide," etc. New York. G. W. Carleton. 12mo. pp. 259. $1.25.

Sermons preached before His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales, during his Tour in the East,
in the Spring of 1862, with Notices of some of the Localities visited. C. Scribner. 12mo. pp.
272. $1.50.

Palmoni; or, The Numerals of Scripture a Proof of Inspiration. A Free Inquiry. 75 cts.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] When Columbus sailed on his fourth voyage, in which he hoped to pass through what we now
know as the Isthmus of Panama, and sail northwestward, he wrote to his king and queen that
thus he should come as near as men could come to "the Terrestrial Paradise."

[2] Norandel was the half-brother of Amadis, both of them being sons of Lisuarte, King of England.

[3] Maneli was son of Cildadan, King of Ireland.

[4] Quadragante was a distinguished giant, who had been conquered by Amadis, and was now his
sure friend.

[5] The "Spectators" 414 and 477, which urge particularly a better taste in gardening, are
dated 1712; and the first volume of the "Ichnographia" (under a different name, indeed) appeared
in 1715.

[6] This is averred of the translation of the "Oeconomics" of Xenophon, before cited in these
papers, and published under Professor Bradley's name.

[7] Joseph Andrews, Bk. III. Ch. 4, where Fielding, thief that he was, appropriates the story
that Xenophon tells of Cyrus.

[8] Works of Earl of Orford, Vol. III. p. 490.

[9] Chap. IX. p. 136, Cobbett's edition.

[10] It is to be remarked, however, that the Rev. Mr. Smith, (farmer of Lois-Weedon,) by the
distribution of his crop, avails himself virtually of a clean fallow, every alternate year.

[11] Transactions, Vol. XXX p. 140.

[12] Detached Thoughts on Men and Manners: Wm. Shenstone.

[13] Completing the two volumes of collected poems.

[14] A taste for this had been early indicated, especially in the essays on Bunyan and Robert
Dinsmore, in "Old Portraits and Modern Sketches," and in passages of "Literary Recreations."
Whittier's prose, by the way, is all worth reading.

[15] Montgéron, Tom. II. Idée de l'État des Convulsionnaires, p. 104.

[16] Montgéron, Tom. II. Idée de l'État, etc., p. 104.

[17] Vains Efforts des Discernans, p. 36.

[18] Montgéron, Tom. II. Idée de l'État, etc., p. 66.

[19] Montgéron, Tom. II. Idée de l'État, etc., p. 67. The latter part of the quotation alludes
to crucifixion and other symbolical representations, to which the convulsionists were much given.

This state of ecstasy is one which has existed, probably, in occasional instances, through
all past time, especially among religious enthusiasts. The writings of the ancient fathers
contain constant allusions to it. St. Augustine, for example, speaks of it as a phenomenon
which he has personally witnessed. Referring to persons thus impressed, he says,--"I have seen
some who addressed their discourse sometimes to the persons around them, sometimes to other
beings, as if they were actually present; and when they came to themselves, some could report
what they had seen, others preserved no recollection of it whatever."--De Gen. ad Litter. Lib.
XII. c. 13.

[20] Montgéron, Tom. II. Idée de l'État, etc., p. 77.

[21] Lettre de M. Colbert, du 8 Février, 1733, à Madame de Coetquen.

[22] Montgéron, Tom. II.

[23] Montgéron, Tom. II. Idée de l'Oeuvre, etc., p. 123.

[24] Montgéron, Tom. II. Idée de l'État, etc. p. 82.

[25] Ibid. p. 17.

[26] Ibid. p. 19.

[27] Montgéron, Tom. II. Idée de l'État, etc., p. 77.

[28] In proof of this opinion, Montgéron gives numerous quotations from St. Augustine, St.
Thomas, St. Gregory, and various theologians and ecclesiastics of high reputation, to the effect
that "it often happens that errors and defects are mixed in with holy and divine revelations,
(of saints and others, in ecstasy,) either by some vice of nature, or by the deception of the
Devil, in the same way that our minds often draw false conclusions from true premises."--Ibid.
pp. 88-96.

[29] Ibid. p. 94.

[30] Ibid. p. 95.

[31] Montgéron, Tom. II. Idée de l'État, etc., pp. 102, 103.

[32] Ibid. p. 73.

[33] Vains Efforts des Discernans, pp. 39, 40.

[34] Lettres de M. Poncet, Let. VII. p. 129.

[35] Montgéron, Tom. II. Idée de l'État, etc., p. 76.

[36] Recherche de la Vérité, p. 25.

[37] Montgéron, Tom. II. Idée de l'État, etc., p. 76.

[38] Montgéron, Tom. II. Idée de l'État, etc., p. 73.

[39] Philosophy of Mysterious Agents, Human and Mundane, by E. C. Rogers, Boston, 1853, p.
321, and elsewhere. He argues, "that, in as far as persons become 'mediums,' they are mere
automatons," surrendering all mental control, and resigning their manhood.

[40] Montgéron, Tom. II. Idée de l'État, etc., pp. 34, 35.

[41] Hume's Essays, Vol. II. sect. 10.

[42] Diderot's Pensées Philosophiques. The original edition appeared in 1746, published in Paris.

[43] Dom La Taste's Lettres Théologiques, Tom. II. p. 878.

[44] Montgéron expressly tells us, that, in the case of Marguerite Catherine Turpin, her limbs
were drawn, by means of strong bands, "with such, extreme violence that the bones of her knees
and thighs cracked with a loud noise."--Tom. III. p. 553.

[45] Montgéron supplies evidence that the expression clubs, here used, is not misapplied. He
furnishes quotations from a petition addressed to the Parliament of Paris by the mother of
the girl Turpin, praying for a legal investigation of her daughter's case by the attorney-general,
and offering to furnish him with the names, station in life, and addresses of the witnesses
to the wonderful cure, in this case, of a monstrous deformity that was almost congenital; in
which petition it is stated,--"Little by little the force with which she was struck was augmented,
and at last the blows were given with billets of oak-wood, one end of which was reduced in
diameter so as to form a handle, while the other end, with which the strokes were dealt, was
from seven to eight inches in circumference, so that these billets were in fact small clubs."
(Montgéron, Tom. III. p. 552.) This would give from eight to nine inches, English measure,
or nearly three inches in diameter, and of oak!

[46] Dissertation Théologique sur les Convulsions, pp. 70, 71.

[47] De la Folie, Tom. II. p. 373.

[48] Tympany is defined by Johnson, "A kind of obstructed flatulence that swells the body like
a drum."

[49] The Epidemics of the Middle Ages, pp. 89-91. The same work supplies other points of analogy
between this epidemic and that of St. Médard; for example: "Where the disease was completely
developed, the attack commenced with epileptic convulsions."--p. 88.

[50] Traité du Somnambulisme, pp. 384, 385.

[51] Dictionnaire des Sciences Médicales, Art. Convulsions.

[52] De la Folie, considérée, sous la Point de Vue Pathologique, Philosophique, Historique,
et Judiciaire, par le Dr. Calmeil, Paris, 1845, Tom. II. pp. 386, 387.

[53] See, in Calmeil's work cited above, the Chapter entitled Théomanie Extato-Convulsive parmi
les Jansenistes, Tom. II. pp. 313-400.

[54] Du Surnaturel en Général, Tom. II. pp. 94, 95.

[55] I translate literally the words of the original: "avec des convulsionnaires en gomme élastique,"
p. 90.

[56] Du Surnaturel en Général, Tom. II. pp. 90, 91.

[57] See note in De Gasparin's "Experiments in Table-Moving."

[58] Montgéron, Tom. III. p. 703.

[59] Montgéron, Tom. III. pp. 712, 713.

[60] Carpenter's Principles of Human Physiology, p. 647.

[61] Carpenter's Principles of Human Physiology, p. 561. The story, incredible if it appear,
is indorsed by Carpenter as vouched for by Mr. Richard Smith, late Senior Surgeon of the Bristol
Infirmary, under whose care the sufferer had been. The case resulted, after a fortnight, in death.

[62] Such will be found throughout Hecquet's "Le Naturalisme des Convulsions dans les Maladies,"
Paris, 1733. Dr. Philippe Hecquet, born in 1661, acquired great reputation in Paris as a physician,
being elected in 1712 President of the Faculty of Medicine in that city. He is the author of
numerous works on medical subjects. In his "Naturalisme des Convulsions," published at the
very time when the St.-Médard excitement was at the highest, he admits the main facts, but
denies their miraculous character.

[63] "The eye, contrary to the usual notions, is a very insensible part of the body, unless
affected with inflammation; for, though the mucous membrane which covers its surface, and which
is prolonged from the skin, is acutely sensible to tactile impressions, the interior is by
no means so, as is well known to those who have operated much on this organ."--Carpenter's
Principles of Human Physiology, p. 682.

[64] Hume's Essays, Vol. II. p. 133.