Old Joe Philpot had been working in this room all day, washing off the old whitewash from the
ceiling and removing the old papers from the walls with a broad bladed, square topped knife
called a stripper. Although it was only a small room, Joe had had to tear into the work pretty
hard all the time, for the ceiling seemed to have had two or three coats of whitewash without
ever having been washed off, and there were several thicknesses of paper on the walls.  The
difficulty of removing these papers was increased by the fact that there was a dado which had
been varnished.  In order to get this off it had been necessary to soak it several times with
strong soda water, and although Joe was as careful as possible he had not been able to avoid
getting some of this stuff on his fingers.  The result was that his nails were all burnt and
discoloured and the flesh round them cracked and bleeding.  However, he had got it all off
at last, and he was not sorry, for his right arm and shoulder were aching from the prolonged
strain and in the palm of the right hand there was a blister as large as a shilling, caused
by the handle of the stripping knife.

All the old paper being off, Joe washed down the walls with water, and having swept the paper
into a heap in the middle of the floor, he mixed with a small trowel some cement on a small
board and proceeded to stop up the cracks and holes in the walls and ceiling.  After a while,
feeling very tired, it occurred to him that he deserved a spell and a smoke for five minutes.
He closed the door and placed a pair of steps against it.  There were two windows in the room
almost opposite each other; these he opened wide in order that the smoke and smell of his pipe
might be carried away.  Having taken these precautions against surprise, he ascended to the
top of the step ladder that he had laid against the door and sat down at ease.  Within easy
reach was the top of a cupboard where he had concealed a pint of beer in a bottle.  To this
he now applied himself.  Having taken a long pull at the bottle, he tenderly replaced it on
the top of the cupboard and proceeded to 'hinjoy' a quiet smoke, remarking to himself:

'This is where we get some of our own back.'

He held, however, his trowel in one hand, ready for immediate action in case of interruption.

Philpot was about fifty-five years old.  He wore no white jacket, only an old patched apron;
his trousers were old, very soiled with paint and ragged at the bottoms of the legs where they
fell over the much-patched, broken and down-at-heel boots.  The part of his waistcoat not protected
by his apron was covered with spots of dried paint.  He wore a coloured shirt and a 'dickey'
which was very soiled and covered with splashes of paint, and one side of it was projecting
from the opening of the waistcoat.  His head was covered with an old cap, heavy and shining
with paint.  He was very thin and stooped slightly. Although he was really only fifty-five,
he looked much older, for he was prematurely aged.

He had not been getting his own back for quite five minutes when Hunter softly turned the handle
of the lock.  Philpot immediately put out his pipe and descending from his perch opened the
door.  When Hunter entered Philpot closed it again and, mounting the steps, went on stripping
the wall just above.  Nimrod looked at him suspiciously, wondering why the door had been closed.
He looked all round the room but could see nothing to complain of.  He sniffed the air to try
if he could detect the odour of tobacco, and if he had not been suffering a cold in the head
there is no doubt that he would have perceived it. However, as it was he could smell nothing
but all the same he was not quite satisfied, although he remembered that Crass always gave
Philpot a good character.

'I don't like to have men working on a job like this with the door shut,' he said at length.
'It always gives me the idear that the man's 'avin a mike.  You can do what you're doin' just
as well with the door open.'

Philpot, muttering something about it being all the same to him--shut or open--got down from
the steps and opened the door.  Hunter went out again without making any further remark and
once more began crawling over the house.

Owen was working by himself in a room on the same floor as Philpot. He was at the window, burning
off with a paraffin torch-lamp those parts of the old paintwork that were blistered and cracked.

In this work the flame of the lamp is directed against the old paint, which becomes soft and
is removed with a chisel knife, or a scraper called a shavehook.  The door was ajar and he
had opened the top sash of the window for the purpose of letting in some fresh air, because
the atmosphere of the room was foul with the fumes of the lamp and the smell of the burning
paint, besides being heavy with moisture. The ceiling had only just been water washed and the
walls had just been stripped.  The old paper, saturated with water, was piled up in a heap
in the middle of the floor.

Presently, as he was working he began to feel conscious of some other presence in the room;
he looked round.  The door was open about six inches and in the opening appeared a long, pale
face with a huge chin, surmounted by a bowler hat and ornamented with a large red nose, a drooping
moustache and two small, glittering eyes set very close together.  For some seconds this apparition
regarded Owen intently, then it was silently withdrawn, and he was again alone.  He had been
so surprised and startled that he had nearly dropped the lamp, and now that the ghastly countenance
was gone, Owen felt the blood surge into his own cheeks.  He trembled with suppressed fury
and longed to be able to go out there on the landing and hurl the lamp into Hunter's face.

Meanwhile, on the landing outside Owen's door, Hunter stood thinking. Someone must be got rid
of to make room for the cheap man tomorrow. He had hoped to catch somebody doing something
that would have served as an excuse for instant dismissal, but there was now no hope of that
happening.  What was to be done?  He would like to get rid of Linden, who was now really too
old to be of much use, but as the old man had worked for Rushton on and off for many years,
Hunter felt that he could scarcely sack him off hand without some reasonable pretext. Still,
the fellow was really not worth the money  he was getting. Sevenpence an hour was an absurdly
large wage for an old man like him. It was preposterous: he would have to go, excuse or no excuse.

Hunter crawled downstairs again.

Jack Linden was about sixty-seven years old, but like Philpot, and as is usual with working
men, he appeared older, because he had had to work very hard all his life, frequently without
proper food and clothing.  His life had been passed in the midst of a civilization which he
had never been permitted to enjoy the benefits of.  But of course he knew nothing about all
this.  He had never expected or wished to be allowed to enjoy such things; he had always been
of opinion that they were never intended for the likes of him.  He called himself a Conservative
and was very patriotic.

At the time when the Boer War commenced, Linden was an enthusiastic jingo: his enthusiasm had
been somewhat damped when his youngest son, a reservist, had to go to the front, where he died
of fever and exposure. When this soldier son went away, he left his wife and two children,
aged respectively four and five years at that time, in his father's care.  After he died they
stayed on with the old people.  The young woman earned a little occasionally by doing needlework,
but was really dependent on her father-in-law.  Notwithstanding his poverty, he was glad to
have them in the house, because of late years his wife had been getting very feeble, and, since
the shock occasioned by the news of the death of her son, needed someone constantly with her.

Linden was still working at the vestibule doors when the manager came downstairs.  Misery stood
watching him for some minutes without speaking.  At last he said loudly:

'How much longer are you going to be messing about those doors?  Why don't you get them under
colour?  You were fooling about there when I was here this morning.  Do you think it'll pay
to have you playing about there hour after hour with a bit of pumice stone?  Get the work done!
Or if you don't want to, I'll very soon find someone else who does!  I've been noticing your
style of doing things for some time past and I want you to understand that you can't play the
fool with me. There's plenty of better men than you walking about.  If you can't do more than
you've been doing lately you can clear out; we can do without you even when we're busy.'

Old Jack trembled.  He tried to answer, but was unable to speak.  If he had been a slave and
had failed to satisfy his master, the latter might have tied him up somewhere and thrashed
him.  Hunter could not do that; he could only take his food away.  Old Jack was frightened--it
was not only HIS food that might be taken away.  At last, with a great effort, for the words
seemed to stick in his throat, he said:

'I must clean the work down, sir, before I go on painting.'

'I'm not talking about what you're doing, but the time it takes you to do it!' shouted Hunter.
'And I don't want any back answers or argument about it.  You must move yourself a bit quicker
or leave it alone altogether.'

Linden did not answer: he went on with his work, his hand trembling to such an extent that
he was scarcely able to hold the pumice stone.

Hunter shouted so loud that his voice filled all the house.  Everyone heard and was afraid.
Who would be the next? they thought.

Finding that Linden made no further answer, Misery again began walking about the house.

As he looked at them the men did their work in a nervous, clumsy, hasty sort of way.  They
made all sorts of mistakes and messes. Payne, the foreman carpenter, was putting some new boards
on a part of the drawing-room floor: he was in such a state of panic that, while driving a
nail, he accidentally struck the thumb of his left hand a severe blow with his hammer.  Bundy
was also working in the drawing-room putting some white-glazed tiles in the fireplace.  Whilst
cutting one of these in half in order to fit it into its place, he inflicted a deep gash on
one of his fingers.  He was afraid to leave off to bind it up while Hunter was there, and consequently
as he worked the white tiles became all smeared and spattered with blood.  Easton, who was
working with Harlow on a plank, washing off the old distemper from the hall ceiling, was so
upset that he was scarcely able  to stand on the plank, and presently the brush fell from his
trembling hand with a crash upon the floor.

Everyone was afraid.  They knew that it was impossible to get a job for any other firm.  They
knew that this man had the power to deprive them of the means of earning a living; that he
possessed the power to deprive their children of bread.

Owen, listening to Hunter over the banisters upstairs, felt that he would like to take him
by the throat with one hand and smash his face in with the other.

And then?

Why then he would be sent to gaol, or at the best he would lose his employment: his food and
that of his family would be taken away.  That was why he only ground his teeth and cursed and
beat the wall with his clenched fist.  So! and so! and so!

If it were not for them!

Owen's imagination ran riot.

First he would seize him by the collar with his left hand, dig his knuckles into his throat,
force him up against the wall and then, with his right fist, smash! smash! smash! until Hunter's
face was all cut and covered with blood.

But then, what about those at home?  Was it not braver and more manly to endure in silence?

Owen leaned against the wall, white-faced, panting and exhausted.

Downstairs, Misery was still going to and fro in the house and walking up and down in it. 
Presently he stopped to look at Sawkins' work. This man was painting the woodwork of the back
staircase.  Although the old paintwork here was very dirty and greasy, Misery had given orders
that it was not to be cleaned before being painted.

'Just dust it down and slobber the colour on,' he had said. Consequently, when Crass made the
paint, he had put into it an extra large quantity of dryers.  To a certain extent this destroyed
the 'body' of the colour: it did not cover well; it would require two coats.  When Hunter perceived
this he was furious.  He was sure it could be made to do with one coat with a little care;
he believed Sawkins was doing it like this on purpose.  Really, these men seemed to have no
conscience.

Two coats! and he had estimated for only three.

'Crass!'

'Yes, sir.'

'Come here!'

'Yes, sir.'

Crass came hurrying along.

'What's the meaning of this?  Didn't I tell you to make this do with one coat?  Look at it!'

'It's like this, sir,' said Crass.  'If it had been washed down--'

'Washed down be damned,' shouted Hunter.  'The reason is that the colour ain't thick enough.
Take the paint and put a little more body in it and we'll soon see whether it can be done or
not.  I can make it cover if you can't.'

Crass took the paint, and, superintended by Hunter, made it thicker. Misery then seized the
brush and prepared to demonstrate the possibility of finishing the work with one coat.  Crass
and Sawkins looked on in silence.

Just as Misery was about to commence he fancied he heard someone whispering somewhere.  He
laid down the brush and crawled stealthily upstairs to see who it was.  Directly his back was
turned Crass seized a bottle of oil that was standing near and, tipping about half a pint of
it into the paint, stirred it up quickly.  Misery returned almost immediately: he had not caught
anyone; it must have been fancy.  He took up the brush and began to paint.  The result was
worse than Sawkins!

He messed and fooled about for some time, but could not make it come right.  At last he gave it up.

'I suppose it'll have to have two coats after all,' he said, mournfully.  'But it's a thousand
pities.'

He almost wept.

The firm would be ruined if things went on like this.

'You'd better go on with it,' he said as he laid down the brush.

He began to walk about the house again.  He wanted to go away now, but he did not want them
to know that he was gone, so he sneaked out of the back door, crept around the house and out
of the gate, mounted his bicycle and rode away.

No one saw him go.

For some time the only sounds that broke the silence were the noises made by the hands as they
worked.  The musical ringing of Bundy's trowel, the noise of the carpenters' hammers and saws
and the occasional moving of a pair of steps.

No one dared to speak.

At last Philpot could stand it no longer.  He was very thirsty.

He had kept the door of his room open since Hunter arrived.

He listened intently.  He felt certain that Hunter must be gone: he looked across the landing
and could see Owen working in the front room. Philpot made a little ball of paper and threw
it at him to attract his attention.  Owen looked round and Philpot began to make signals: he
pointed downwards with one hand and jerked the thumb of the other over his shoulder in the
direction of the town, winking grotesquely the while.  This Owen interpreted to be an inquiry
as to whether Hunter had departed.  He shook his head and shrugged his shoulders to intimate
that he did not know.

Philpot cautiously crossed the landing and peeped furtively over the banisters, listening breathlessly.
'Was it gorn or not?' he wondered.

He crept along on tiptoe towards Owen's room, glancing left and right, the trowel in his hand,
and looking like a stage murderer.  'Do you think it's gorn?' he asked in a hoarse whisper
when he reached Owen's door.

'I don't know,' replied Owen in a low tone.

Philpot wondered.  He MUST have a drink, but it would never do for Hunter to see him with the
bottle: he must find out somehow whether he was gone or not.

At last an idea came.  He would go downstairs to get some more cement. Having confided this
plan to Owen, he crept quietly back to the room in which he had been working, then he walked
noisily across the landing again.

'Got a bit of stopping to spare, Frank?' he asked in a loud voice.

'No,' replied Owen.  'I'm not using it.'

'Then I suppose I'll have to go down and get some.  Is there anything I can bring up for you?'

'No, thanks,' replied Owen.

Philpot marched boldly down to the scullery, which Crass had utilized as a paint-shop.  Crass
was there mixing some colour.

'I want a bit of stopping,' Philpot said as he helped himself to some.

'Is the b--r gorn?' whispered Crass.

'I don't know,' replied Philpot.  'Where's his bike?'

''E always leaves it outside the gate, so's we can't see it,' replied Crass.

'Tell you what,' whispered Philpot, after a pause.  'Give the boy a hempty bottle and let 'im
go to the gate and look to the bikes there. If Misery sees him 'e can pretend to be goin' to
the shop for some hoil.'

This was done.  Bert went to the gate and returned almost immediately: the bike was gone. 
As the good news spread through the house a chorus of thanksgiving burst forth.

'Thank Gord!' said one.

'Hope the b--r falls orf and breaks 'is bloody neck,' said another.

'These Bible-thumpers are all the same; no one ever knew one to be any good yet,' cried a third.

Directly they knew for certain that he was gone, nearly everyone left off work for a few minutes
to curse him.   Then they again went on working and now that they were relieved of the embarrassment
that Misery's presence inspired, they made better progress.  A few of them lit their pipes
and smoked as they worked.

One of these was old Jack Linden.  He was upset by the bullying he had received, and when he
noticed some of the others smoking he thought he would have a pipe; it might steady his nerves.
As a rule he did not smoke when working; it was contrary to orders.

As Philpot was returning to work again he paused for a moment to whisper to Linden, with the
result that the latter accompanied him upstairs.

On reaching Philpot's room the latter placed the step-ladder near the cupboard and, taking
down the bottle of beer, handed it to Linden with the remark, 'Get some of that acrost yer,
matey; it'll put yer right.'

While Linden was taking a hasty drink, Joe kept watch on the landing outside in case Hunter
should suddenly and unexpectedly reappear.

When Linden was gone downstairs again, Philpot, having finished what remained of the beer and
hidden the bottle up the chimney, resumed the work of stopping up the holes and cracks in the
ceiling and walls.  He must make a bit of a show tonight or there would be a hell of a row
when Misery came in the morning.

Owen worked on in a disheartened, sullen way.  He felt like a beaten dog.

He was more indignant on poor old Linden's account than on his own, and was oppressed by a
sense of impotence and shameful degradation.

All his life it had been the same: incessant work under similar more or less humiliating conditions,
and with no more result than being just able to avoid starvation.

And the future, as far as he could see, was as hopeless as the past; darker, for there would
surely come a time, if he lived long enough, when he would be unable to work any more.

He thought of his child.  Was he to be a slave and a drudge all his life also?

It would be better for the boy to die now.

As Owen thought of his child's future there sprung up within him a feeling of hatred and fury
against the majority of his fellow workmen.

THEY WERE THE ENEMY.  Those who not only quietly submitted like so many cattle to the existing
state of things, but defended it, and opposed and ridiculed any suggestion to alter it.

THEY WERE THE REAL OPPRESSORS--the men who spoke of themselves as 'The likes of us,' who, having
lived in poverty and degradation all their lives considered that what had been good enough
for them was good enough for the children they had been the cause of bringing into existence.

He hated and despised them because the calmly saw their children condemned to hard labour and
poverty for life, and deliberately refused to make any effort to secure for them better conditions
than those they had themselves.

It was because they were indifferent to the fate of THEIR children that he would be unable
to secure a natural and human life for HIS. It was their apathy or active opposition that made
it impossible to establish a better system of society under which those who did their fair
share of the world's work would be honoured and rewarded. Instead of helping to do this, they
abased themselves, and grovelled before their oppressors, and compelled and taught their children
to do the same. THEY were the people who were really responsible for the continuance of the
present system.

Owen laughed bitterly to himself.  What a very comical system it was.

Those who worked were looked upon with contempt, and subjected to every possible indignity.
Nearly everything they produced was taken away from them and enjoyed by the people who did
nothing.  And then the workers bowed down and grovelled before those who had robbed them of
the fruits of their labour and were childishly grateful to them for leaving anything at all.

No wonder the rich despised them and looked upon them as dirt.  They WERE despicable.  They
WERE dirt.  They admitted it and gloried in it.

While these thoughts were seething in Owen's mind, his fellow workmen were still patiently
toiling on downstairs.  Most of them had by this time dismissed Hunter from their thoughts.
They did not take things so seriously as Owen.  They flattered themselves that they had more
sense than that.  It could not be altered.  Grin and bear it.  After all, it was only for life!
Make the best of things, and get your own back whenever you get a chance.

Presently Harlow began to sing.  He had a good voice and it was a good song, but his mates
just then did not appreciate either one of the other.  His singing was the signal for an outburst
of exclamations and catcalls.

'Shut it, for Christ's sake!'

'That's enough of that bloody row!'

And so on.  Harlow stopped.

'How's the enemy?' asked Easton presently, addressing no one in particular.

'Don't know,' replied Bundy.  'It must be about half past four.  Ask Slyme; he's got a watch.'

It was a quarter past four.

'It gets dark very early now,' said Easton.

'Yes,' replied Bundy.  'It's been very dull all day.  I think it's goin' to rain.   Listen
to the wind.'

'I 'ope not,' replied Easton.  'That means a wet shirt goin' 'ome.'

He called out to old Jack Linden, who was still working at the front doors:

'Is it raining, Jack?'

Old Jack, his pipe still in his mouth, turned to look at the weather. It was raining, but Linden
did not see the large drops which splashed heavily upon the ground.  He saw only Hunter, who
was standing at the gate, watching him.  For a few seconds the two men looked at each other
in silence.  Linden was paralysed with fear.  Recovering himself, he hastily removed his pipe,
but it was too late.

Misery strode up.

'I don't pay you for smoking,' he said, loudly.  'Make out your time sheet, take it to the
office and get your money.  I've had enough of you!'

Jack made no attempt to defend himself: he knew it was of no use.  He silently put aside the
things he had been using, went into the room where he had left his tool-bag and coat, removed
his apron and white jacket, folded them up and put them into his tool-bag along with the tools
he had been using--a chisel-knife and a shavehook--put on his coat, and, with the tool-bag
slung over his shoulder, went away from the house.

Without speaking to anyone else, Hunter then hastily walked over the place, noting what progress
had been made by each man during his absence.  He then rode away, as he wanted to get to the
office in time to give Linden his money.

It was now very cold and dark within the house, and as the gas was not yet laid on, Crass distributed
a number of candles to the men, who worked silently, each occupied with his own gloomy thoughts.
Who would be the next?

Outside, sombre masses of lead-coloured clouds gathered ominously in the tempestuous sky. 
The gale roared loudly round the old-fashioned house and the windows rattled discordantly.
Rain fell in torrents.

They said it meant getting wet through going home, but all the same, Thank God it was nearly
five o'clock!

Chapter 3

The Financiers

That night as Easton walked home through the rain he felt very depressed.  It had been a very
bad summer for most people and he had not fared better than the rest.  A few weeks with one
firm, a few days with another, then out of a job, then on again for a month perhaps, and so on.

William Easton was a man of medium height, about twenty-three years old, with fair hair and
moustache and blue eyes.  He wore a stand-up collar with a coloured tie and his clothes, though
shabby, were clean and neat.

He was married: his wife was a young woman whose acquaintance he had made when he happened
to be employed with others painting the outside of the house where she was a general servant.
They had 'walked out' for about fifteen months.  Easton had been in no hurry to marry, for
he knew that, taking good times with bad, his wages did no average a pound a week.  At the
end of that time, however, he found that he could not honourably delay longer, so they were
married.

That was twelve months ago.

As a single man he had never troubled much if he happened to be out of work; he always had
enough to live on and pocket money besides; but now that he was married it was different; the
fear of being 'out' haunted him all the time.

He had started for Rushton & Co. on the previous Monday after having been idle for three weeks,
and as the house where he was working had to be done right through he had congratulated himself
on having secured a job that would last till Christmas; but he now began to fear that what
had befallen Jack Linden might also happen to himself at any time.  He would have to be very
careful not to offend Crass in any way.  He was afraid the latter did not like him very much
as it was. Easton knew that Crass could get him the sack at any time, and would not scruple
to do so if he wanted to make room for some crony of his own.  Crass was the 'coddy' or foreman
of the job.  Considered as a workman he had no very unusual abilities; he was if anything inferior
to the majority of his fellow workmen.  But although he had but little real ability he pretended
to know everything, and the vague references he was in the habit of making to 'tones', and
'shades', and 'harmony', had so impressed Hunter that the latter had a high opinion of him
as a workman.  It was by pushing himself forward in this way and by judicious toadying to Hunter
that Crass managed to get himself put in charge of work.

Although Crass did as little work as possible himself he took care that the others worked hard.
Any man who failed to satisfy him in this respect he reported to Hunter as being 'no good',
or 'too slow for a funeral'.  The result was that this man was dispensed with at the end of
the week.  The men knew this, and most of them feared the wily Crass accordingly, though there
were a few whose known abilities placed them to a certain extent above the reach of his malice.
Frank Owen was one of these.

There were others who by the judicious administration of pipefuls of tobacco and pints of beer,
managed to keep in Crass's good graces and often retained their employment when better workmen
were 'stood off'.

As he walked home through the rain thinking of these things, Easton realized that it was not
possible to foresee what a day or even an hour might bring forth.

By this time he had arrived at his home; it was a small house, one of a long row of similar
ones, and it contained altogether four rooms.

The front door opened into a passage about two feet six inches wide and ten feet in length,
covered with oilcloth.  At the end of the passage was a flight of stairs leading to the upper
part of the house. The first door on the left led into the front sitting-room, an apartment
about nine feet square, with a bay window.  This room was very rarely used and was always very
tidy and clean.  The mantelpiece was of wood painted black and ornamented with jagged streaks
of red and yellow, which were supposed to give it the appearance of marble. On the walls was
a paper with a pale terra-cotta ground and a pattern consisting of large white roses with chocolate
coloured leaves and stalks.

There was a small iron fender with fire-irons to match, and on the mantelshelf stood a clock
in a polished wood case, a pair of blue glass vases, and some photographs in frames.  The floor
was covered with oilcloth of a tile pattern in yellow and red.  On the walls were two or three
framed coloured prints such as are presented with Christmas numbers of illustrated papers.
There was also a photograph of a group of Sunday School girls with their teachers with the
church for the background.  In the centre of the room was a round deal table about three feet
six inches across, with the legs stained red to look like mahogany.  Against one wall was an
old couch covered with faded cretonne, four chairs to match standing backs to wall in different
parts of the room.  The table was covered with a red cloth with a yellow crewel work design
in the centre and in each of the four corners, the edges being overcast in the same material.
On the table were a lamp and a number of brightly bound books.

Some of these things, as the couch and the chairs, Easton had bought second-hand and had done
up himself.  The table, oilcloth, fender, hearthrug, etc, had been obtained on the hire system
and were not yet paid for.  The windows were draped with white lace curtains and in the bay
was a small bamboo table on which reposed a large Holy Bible, cheaply but showily bound.

If anyone had ever opened this book they would have found that its pages were as clean as the
other things in the room, and on the flyleaf might have been read the following inscription:
'To dear Ruth, from her loving friend Mrs Starvem with the prayer that God's word may be her
guide and that Jesus may be her very own Saviour.  Oct. 12. 19--'

Mrs Starvem was Ruth's former mistress, and this had been her parting gift when Ruth left to
get married.  It was supposed to be a keepsake, but as Ruth never opened the book and never
willingly allowed her thoughts to dwell upon the scenes of which it reminded her, she had forgotten
the existence of Mrs Starvem almost as completely as that well-to-do and pious lady had forgotten
hers.

For Ruth, the memory of the time she spent in the house of 'her loving friend' was the reverse
of pleasant.  It comprised a series of recollections of petty tyrannies, insults and indignities.
Six years of cruelly excessive work, beginning every morning two or three hours before the
rest of the household were awake and ceasing only when she went exhausted to bed, late at night.

She had been what is called a 'slavey' but if she had been really a slave her owner would have
had some regard for her health and welfare: her 'loving friend' had had none.  Mrs Starvem's
only thought had been to get out of Ruth the greatest possible amount of labour and to give
her as little as possible in return.

When Ruth looked back upon that dreadful time she saw it, as one might say, surrounded by a
halo of religion.  She never passed by a chapel or heard the name of God, or the singing of
a hymn, without thinking of her former mistress.  To have looked into this Bible would have
reminded her of Mrs Starvem; that was one of the reasons why the book reposed, unopened and
unread, a mere ornament on the table in the bay window.

The second door in the passage near the foot of the stairs led into the kitchen or living-room:
from here another door led into the scullery. Upstairs were two bedrooms.

As Easton entered the house, his wife met him in the passage and asked him not to make a noise
as the child had just gone to sleep.  They kissed each other and she helped him to remove his
wet overcoat.  Then they both went softly into the kitchen.

This room was about the same size as the sitting-room.  At one end was a small range with an
oven and a boiler, and a high mantelpiece painted black.  On the mantelshelf was a small round
alarm clock and some brightly polished tin canisters.  At the other end of the room, facing
the fireplace, was a small dresser on the shelves of which were nearly arranged a number of
plates and dishes.  The walls were papered with oak paper.  On one wall, between two coloured
almanacks, hung a tin lamp with a reflector behind the light.  In the middle of the room was
an oblong deal table with a white tablecloth upon which the tea things were set ready.  There
were four kitchen chairs, two of which were placed close to the table.  Overhead, across the
room, about eighteen inches down from the ceiling, were stretched several cords upon which
were drying a number of linen or calico undergarments, a coloured shirt, and Easton's white
apron and jacket.  On the back of a chair at one side of the fire more clothes were drying.
At the other side on the floor was a wicker cradle in which a baby was sleeping. Nearby stood
a chair with a towel hung on the back, arranged so as to shade the infant's face from the light
of the lamp.  An air of homely comfort pervaded the room; the atmosphere was warm, and the
fire blazed cheerfully over the whitened hearth.

They walked softly over and stood by the cradle side looking at the child; as they looked the
baby kept moving uneasily in its sleep.  Its face was very flushed and its eyes were moving
under the half-closed lids.  Every now and again its lips were drawn back slightly, showing
part of the gums; presently it began to whimper, drawing up its knees as if in pain.

'He seems to have something wrong with him,' said Easton.

'I think it's his teeth,' replied the mother.  'He's been very restless all day and he was
awake nearly all last night.'

'P'r'aps he's hungry.'

'No, it can't be that.  He had the best part of an egg this morning and I've nursed him several
times today.  And then at dinner-time he had a whole saucer full of fried potatoes with little
bits of bacon in it.'

Again the infant whimpered and twisted in its sleep, its lips drawn back showing the gums:
its knees pressed closely to its body, the little fists clenched, and face flushed.  Then after
a few seconds it became placid: the mouth resumed its usual shape; the limbs relaxed and the
child slumbered peacefully.

'Don't you think he's getting thin?' asked Easton.  'It may be fancy, but he don't seem to
me to be as big now as he was three months ago.'

'No, he's not quite so fat,' admitted Ruth.  'It's his teeth what's wearing him out; he don't
hardly get no rest at all with them.'

They continued looking at him a little longer.  Ruth thought he was a very beautiful child:
he would be eight months old on Sunday.  They were sorry they could do nothing to ease his
pain, but consoled themselves with the reflection that he would be all right once those teeth
were through.

'Well, let's have some tea,' said Easton at last.

Whilst he removed his wet boots and socks and placed them in front of the fire to dry and put
on dry socks and a pair of slippers in their stead, Ruth half filled a tin basin with hot water
from the boiler and gave it to him, and he then went to the scullery, added some cold water
and began to wash the paint off his hands.  This done he returned to the kitchen and sat down
at the table.

'I couldn't think what to give you to eat tonight,' said Ruth as she poured out the tea.  'I
hadn't got no money left and there wasn't nothing in the house except bread and butter and
that piece of cheese, so I cut some bread and butter and put some thin slices of cheese on
it and toasted it on a place in front of the fire.  I hope you'll like it: it was the best
I could do.'

'That's all right: it smells very nice anyway, and I'm very hungry.'

As they were taking their tea Easton told his wife about Linden's affair and his apprehensions
as to what might befall himself.  They were both very indignant, and sorry for poor old Linden,
but their sympathy for him was soon forgotten in their fears for their own immediate future.

They remained at the table in silence for some time: then,

'How much rent do we owe now?' asked Easton.

'Four weeks, and I promised the collector the last time he called that we'd pay two weeks next
Monday.  He was quite nasty about it.'

'Well, I suppose you'll have to pay it, that's all,' said Easton.

'How much money will you have tomorrow?' asked Ruth.

He began to reckon up his time: he started on Monday and today was Friday: five days, from
seven to five, less half an hour for breakfast and an hour for dinner, eight and a half hours
a day--forty-two hours and a half.  At sevenpence an hour that came to one pound four and ninepence
halfpenny.

'You know I only started on Monday,' he said, 'so there's no back day to come.  Tomorrow goes
into next week.'

'Yes, I know,' replied Ruth.

'If we pay the two week's rent that'll leave us twelve shillings to live on.'

'But we won't be able to keep all of that,' said Ruth, 'because there's other things to pay.'

'What other things?'

'We owe the baker eight shillings for the bread he let us have while you were not working,
and there's about twelve shillings owing for groceries.  We'll have to pay them something on
account.  Then we want some more coal; there's only about a shovelful left, and--'

'Wait a minnit,' said Easton.  'The best way is to write out a list of everything we owe; then
we shall know exactly where we are.  You get me a piece of paper and tell me what to write.
Then we'll see what it all comes to.'

'Do you mean everything we owe, or everything we must pay tomorrow.'

'I think we'd better make a list of all we owe first.'

While they were talking the baby was sleeping restlessly, occasionally uttering plaintive little
cries.  The mother now went and knelt at the side of the cradle, which she gently rocked with
one hand, patting the infant with the other.

'Except the furniture people, the biggest thing we owe is the rent,' she said when Easton was
ready to begin.

