They also played and sang duets together, at least they had done so when they were first married;
now they went to concerts and the opera more frequently instead. They were liked wherever they
went, they had friends, they were called "charming people," and still something was wanting
to complete their happiness--they had no children.

And they would probably not have any now, as they had been married for some time, and the likelihood
of children being born to them was very remote.

No doubt he sighed and knit his brow in unguarded moments when he sat at his desk in his office,
but especially when he passed through the villages in the Brandenburg March on the rides he
took in the more distant environs of Berlin--partly for his health, partly because he still
retained the liking for riding from the time he was in the cavalry--and saw swarms of little
flaxen-haired children romping on the sandy roads. However, he did not let his wife perceive
that he missed something, for he loved her.

But she could not control herself in the same manner. The longer she was married the more nervous
she became. At times she felt irritated with her husband for no reason. She persistently turned
her eyes away from the announcement of births in the newspapers with a certain shrinking, and,
if her glance happened once in a way to fall on one in which happy parents notified the birth
of a son, she put the paper aside hastily.

In former years Käte Schlieben had knitted, crocheted, embroidered and sewn all sorts of pretty
little children's garments--she used to be quite famous for the daintiness of her little baby
jackets trimmed with blue and pink ribbons, all her newly married acquaintances would ask her
for the wonderful little things--but now she had finally given up that sort of work. She had
given up hope. What good did it do her to put her forefingers into the tiny sleeves of a baby's
first jacket, and, holding it out in front of her, gaze at it a long, long time with dreamy
eyes? It only tortured her.

And she felt the torture twice as much in those grey days that suddenly put in an appearance
without any reason, that creep in silently even in the midst of sunshine. On those occasions
she would lie on the couch in her room that was furnished with such exquisite taste--really
artistically--and close her eyes tightly. And then all at once a shout, clear, shrill, triumphant,
like the cry of a swallow on the wing, would ascend from the street, from the promenade under
the chestnut-trees. She stopped her ears when she heard that cry, which penetrated further
than any other tone, which soared up into the ether as swiftly as an arrow, and cradled itself
up there blissfully. She could not bear to hear anything like that--she was becoming morbid.

Alas, when she and her husband grew old, with minds no longer so receptive and too weary to
seek incitement in the world, who would bring it to them in their home? Who would bring them
anything of what was going on outside? What youth with his freshness, with the joyousness that
envelops those of twenty like a dainty garment, that beams from smooth brows like warmth and
sunshine, would give them back a breath of their youth, which had already disappeared in accordance
with the laws of Time? Who would wax enthusiastic at the things that had once made them enthusiastic,
and which they would enjoy once more as though they were new for them too? Who would fill the
house and garden with his laughter, with that careless laughter that is so infectious? Who
would kiss them with warm lips, and make them happy by his tenderness? Who would carry them
on his wings with him, so that they did not feel they were weary?

Alas, there is no second youth for those who are childless. Nobody would come into the inheritance
of delight in what was beautiful, of taste for what was beautiful, of enthusiasm for art and
artists which they would leave behind them. Nobody would guard reverently all those hundreds
of things and nicknacks she had gathered together so tastefully in her house with the delight
of a collector. And nobody would, alas, hold the hand that was fast growing cold with loving
hands, in that last difficult hour which all dread, and cry: "Father, Mother, don't go! Not
yet!" Oh, God, such loving hands would not close their eyes----

When Paul Schlieben used to come home from his office in those days he was co-partner in a
large business that his grandfather had founded and his father raised to a high position--he
often found his wife's sweet face stained with tears, her delicate complexion marred by constant
weeping. And her mouth only forced itself to smile, and in her beautiful brown eyes there lurked
a certain melancholy.

The doctor shrugged his shoulders. The lady was suffering from nerves, that was what was the
matter with her. She had too much time for brooding, she was left to herself too much.

In order to alter this, her anxious husband withdrew from the business for an indefinite period.
His partners could get on just as well without him. The doctor was right, he must devote himself
more to his wife; they were both so lonely, so entirely dependent on each other.

It was decided they should travel; there was no reason whatever why they should remain at home.
The beautiful house was given up, their furniture, all their costly things were stored. If
they cared to do so they could remain away for years, get impressions, amuse themselves. Käte
would paint landscapes in beautiful countries, and he--well, he could easily find compensation
in writing, should he miss his usual work.

They went to Italy and Corsica--still further, to Egypt and Greece. They saw the Highlands,
Sweden and Norway, very many beautiful places.

Käte pressed her husband's hand gratefully. Her susceptible mind waxed enthusiastic, and her
talent for painting, which was by no means insignificant, felt powerfully stimulated all at
once. How splendid to be able to paint, to keep hold of all that glow of colour, that wonderful
effect of tone that revealed itself to her delighted eyes on her canvas.

She was so eager that she went out with her painting materials in the morning, whether it was
at Capri, on the shores of the blue Bosphorus, in the yellow sand of the desert, facing the
precipitous pinnacles in the Fjords, or in the rose gardens of the Riviera. Her delicate face
got sunburnt; she no longer even paid any attention to her hands, which she used to take such
care of. The ardent longing to manifest herself had seized hold of her. Thank God, she could
create something now. The miserable feeling of a useless life did not exist any longer, nor
the torturing knowledge: your life ceases the moment your eyes close, there is nothing of you
that will survive you. Now she would at least leave something behind that she had produced,
even if it were only a picture. Her paintings increased in number; quite a quantity of rolls
of canvas were dragged about now wherever they went.

At first Paul Schlieben was very pleased to see his wife so enthusiastic. He politely carried
her camp-stool and easel for her, and never lost patience when he remained for hours and hours
near her whilst she worked. He lay in the scanty shadow of a palm-tree, and used to follow
the movements of her brush over the top of his book. How fortunate that her art gave her so
much satisfaction. Even though it was a little fatiguing for him to lie about doing nothing
he must not say anything, no, he must not, for he had nothing to offer her as a compensation,
nothing whatever. And he sighed. It was the same sigh that had escaped him when the numerous
flaxen-haired little children were playing about on the sandy roads in the Brandenburg March,
the same sigh which Sundays drew from him, when he used to see all the proletariat of the town--man
and wife and children, children, children--wandering to the Zoo. Yes, he was right--he passed
his hand a little nervously across his forehead--that writer was right--now, who could it be?--who
had once said somewhere: "Why does a man marry? Only to have children, heirs of his body, of
his blood. Children to whom he can pass on the wishes and hopes that are in him and also the
achievements; children who are descended from him like shoots from a tree, children who enable
a man to live eternally." That was the only way in which life after death could be understood--life
eternal. The resurrection of the body, which the Church promises, was to be interpreted as
the renewal of one's own personality in the coming generations. Oh, there was something great,
something indescribably comforting in such a survival.

"Are you speculating about something?" asked his wife. She had looked up from her easel for
a moment.

"Eh? What? Did you say anything, darling?" The man started up in a fright, as one who has been
straying along forbidden paths.

She laughed at his absent-mindedness; it was getting worse and worse. But what was he thinking
of? Business?--surely not. But perhaps he wanted to write a novel, a tale? Why should he not
try his hand at that for once in a way? That was something quite different from sending short
chatty accounts of one's journey to one of the papers. And of course he would be able to do
it. People who had not half the education, not half the knowledge, not half the aesthetic refinement
of feeling he had wrote quite readable books.

She talked brightly and persuasively to him, but he shook his head with a certain resignation:
nonsense, neither novels nor any other kind of writing. And he thought to himself: it is always
said that a piece of work is like a child--that is to say, only a truly great piece of work,
of course. Was the work he and his wife created work in that sense? Work that would exist eternally?
He suddenly found things to censure severely in her picture, which he had politely admired
only the day before.

She got quite frightened about it. Why was he so irritable to-day? Was he going to develop
nerves at the finish? Yes, it was evident, the warm air of the south did not suit him, he had
lost his briskness, looked so tired. There was nothing for it, her husband was more to her
than her picture, she would leave off her painting at once.

And that was what happened. They went away, travelled from one place to another, from one hotel
to another, along the lakes, over the frontier, until they made a somewhat longer stay high
up among the Alps in Switzerland.

Instead of lying under a palm-tree he lay in the shadow of a fir--now his wife was painting--and
followed the movements of her brush with his eyes over the top of his open book.

She was busily painting, for she had discovered a delightful subject. That green alpine meadow,
with its wealth of flowers as variegated as they could possibly be and the backs of the brown
cows with the sun shining on them, was as full of charm as the Garden of Eden on the first
day of creation. In her eagerness to see she had pushed her broad-brimmed hat back, and the
warm summer sun was burning little golden spots on her delicate cheeks and the narrow bridge
of her finely shaped nose. She held the brush that she had dipped into the green on her palette
up against the green of the meadow in order to compare the two, and blinked with half-closed
eyes to see if she had got the colour right.

At that moment a sound made her start--it was half a growl of displeasure at the disturbance,
half a murmur of approval. Her husband had risen and was looking at a couple of children who
had approached them noiselessly. They were offering rhododendrons for sale, the girl had a
small basket full of them, the boy was carrying his nosegay in his hand.

What exceedingly pretty creatures they were, the girl so blue-eyed and gentle, the boy a regular
little scamp. The woman's heart swelled. She bought all the rhododendrons from them, even gave
them more than they asked for them.

That was a stroke of great luck for the little Swiss boy and girl--just think, to get more
than they had asked for. They blushed with happiness, and when the strange lady asked them
questions in a kind voice, they commenced to chatter ingenuously.

She would have to paint those children, they were really too delightful, they were a thousand
times more beautiful than the most beautiful landscape.

Paul Schlieben looked on with a strange uneasiness whilst his wife painted the children, first
the big girl and then the small boy. How intently she gazed at the boy's round face. Her eyes
were brilliant, she never seemed to be tired, and only paused when the children grew impatient.
All her thoughts turned on the painting. Would the children come again that day? Was the light
good? Surely there would not be a storm to prevent the children from coming? Nothing else was
of any interest to her. She displayed great zeal. And still the pictures turned out bad; the
features were like theirs, but there was no trace of the child-mind in them. He saw it clearly:
those who are childless cannot paint children.

Poor woman! He looked on at her efforts with a feeling of deep compassion. Was not her face
becoming soft like a mother's, lovely and round when she bent down to the children? The Madonna
type--and still this woman had been denied children.

No, he could not look on at it any longer, it made him ill. The man bade the children go home
in a gruff voice. The pictures were ready, what was the good of touching them up any more?
That did not make them any better, on the contrary.

That evening Käte cried as she used to cry at home. And she was angry with her husband. Why
did he not let her have that pleasure? Why did he all at once say they were to leave? She did
not understand him. Were the children not sweet, delightful? Was it because they disturbed him?

"Yes," was all he said. There was a hard dry sound in his voice--a "yes" that came with such
difficulty--and she raised her head from the handkerchief in which she had buried it and looked
across at him. He was standing at the window in the carpeted room of the hotel, his hands resting
on the window-ledge, his forehead pressed against the pane. He was gazing silently at the vast
landscape before him, in which the mountaintops covered with snow that glowed in the radiance
of the setting sun spoke to him of immortality. How he pressed his lips together, how nervously
his moustache trembled.

She crept up to him and laid her head on his shoulder. "What is the matter with you?" she asked
him softly. "Do you miss your work--yes, it's your work, isn't it? I was afraid of that. You
are getting tired of this, you must be doing something again. I promise you I'll be reasonable--never
complain any more--only stop here a little longer, only three weeks longer--two weeks."

He remained silent.

"Only ten--eight--six days more. Not even that?" she said, bitterly disappointed, for he had
shaken his head. She wound her arms round his neck. "Only five more--four--three days, please.
Why not? Those few days, please only three days more." She positively haggled for each day.
"Oh, then at least two days more."

She sobbed aloud, her arms fell from his neck--he must allow her two days.

Her voice cut him to the heart. He had never heard her beg like that before, but he made a
stand against the feeling of yielding that was creeping over him. Only no sentimentality. It
was better to go away from there quickly, much better for her.

"We're going away to-morrow."

And as she looked at him with wide-open horror-struck eyes and pallid cheeks, the words escaped
from his lips although he had not intended saying them, drawn from him by a bitterness that
he could not master any longer:

"They are not yours!"

CHAPTER II

And they went away.

But it seemed to the woman as though every joy had disappeared with the emerald green meadow
in the Alps, in which she had painted the lovely children. There was the same old nervous twitch
in her face, the corners of her mouth drooped slightly and she cried very easily. Paul Schlieben
watched his wife with positive dismay. Oh dear, had it all been in vain, the giving up of his
work, all this travelling about without making any plans that was so fatiguing? Had the old
melancholy frame of mind taken possession of her again?

When he saw her sitting there so disinclined to exert herself, her hands lying idle in her
lap, a feeling akin to fury came over him. Why did she not do something? Why did she not paint?
That confounded meadow in the Alps was surely not the only place where she could work. Was
it not beautiful here as well?

They had settled down in the Black Forest. But it was in vain that he hoped from day to day
that one of the quiet green wooded valleys or one of the nut-brown maidens of the Black Forest
with her cherry-red hat and enormous red umbrella, as Vautier has painted them, would tempt
her to bring out her painting materials. She felt no inclination--nay, she had positively a
kind of dread of touching her brushes again.

He reproached himself bitterly in secret. Would it not have been better to have left her that
pleasure and not have interfered? Still--the thing would have had to end some time, and the
longer it had lasted the more difficult the separation would have been. But he had made up
his mind about one thing, they would return to Berlin again late in the autumn. With the best
will in the world he would not be able to stand it any longer. He was heartily tired of this
wandering from hotel to hotel, this lounging about the world with nothing to show for it but
an occasional short article for the papers, a chatty account of a journey to some corner of
the earth of which people knew but little. He longed for a home of his own again, and felt
a great desire to return to his business, which he had often looked upon as a fetter and so
prosaic whilst he was in it. But Käte! When he thought of her again spending many hours alone
at home, with no interests beyond herself and her reading for in her state of hypersensitiveness
she found little pleasure in associating with other women--a feeling of hopelessness came over
him. Then there would be the same sad eyes again, the same melancholy smile, the old irritable
moods from which the whole house used to suffer, herself the most.

And he subjected himself to an examination as though blaming himself for it. He passed his
whole life in review: had he committed any crime that no son had been given to him, no daughter?
Ah, if only Käte had a child everything would be right. Then she would have quite enough to
do, would be entirely taken up with the little creature round which the love of parents, full
of hope and entitled to hope, revolves in an ever-renewed circle.

Both husband and wife were torturing themselves, for the woman's thoughts especially always
ended at that one point. Now that she had been separated from those dear children, from the,
alas, much too short happiness she had experienced that summer, it seemed to have become quite
clear to her what she missed--for had it not only weighed on her like a painful suspicion before?
But now, now the terrible unvarnished truth was there: everything people otherwise call "happiness"
in this world is nothing compared to a child's kiss, to its smile, to its nestling in its mother's
lap.

She had always given the children in the meadow a tender kiss when they came and went, now
she longed for those kisses. Her husband's kiss did not replace them; she would soon have been
married fifteen years, his kiss was no longer a sensation, it had become a habit. But a kiss
from a child's lips, that are so fresh, so untouched, so timid and yet so confiding, was something
quite new to her, something, exceedingly sweet. A feeling of happiness had flowed through her
soul on those occasions as well as the quite physical pleasure of being able to bury her mouth
in those delicately soft and yet so firm cheeks, which health and youth had covered with a
soft down like that on the cheeks of a peach. Her thoughts always wandered back to that meadow
in the Alps, full of longing. And this longing of hers that was never stilled magnified what
had happened, and surrounded the figures that had appeared in her life for so short a time
with the whole halo of tender memories. Her idle thoughts spun long threads. As she longed
for those little ones so they would also be longing for her, they would wander across the meadow
weeping, and the large present of money she had left behind for each of them with the proprietor
of the hotel--she had been obliged to leave without saying good-bye to them--would not console
them; they would stand outside the door and cast their eyes up to the windows from which their
friend so often had waved to them. No, she could not forgive Paul for showing so little comprehension
of her feelings.

The stay in the Black Forest, whose velvety slopes reminded them too much of the Swiss meadows
and from whose points of view you could look over to the Alps on a clear day, became a torture
to both the man and woman. They felt they must get away; the dark firs, the immense green forest
became too monotonous for them. Should they not try some seaside resort for once? The sea is
ever new. And it was also just the season for the seaside. The wind blew already over the stubble
in the fields, as they drove down to the plain.

They chose a Belgian watering-place, one in which the visitors dress a great deal, and in which
quite a cosmopolitan set of people offer something new to the eye every day. They both felt
it, they had remained much too long in mountain solitudes.

During the first days the gay doings amused them, but then Paul and his wife, between whom
something like a barrier had tried to push itself lately, both agreed all at once: this sauntering
up and down of men who looked like fools, of women who if they did not belong to the demi-monde
successfully imitated it, was not for them. Let them only get away.

The man proposed they should give up travelling entirely and return to Berlin a little earlier,
but Käte would not listen to it. She had a secret dread of Berlin--oh, would she have to go
back to her old life again? So far she had never asked herself what she had really expected
from these long months of travel; but she had hoped for something--certainly. What?

Oh dear, now she would be so much alone again, and there was nothing, nothing that really filled
her life entirely.

No, she was not able to return to Berlin yet. She told her husband that she felt she had not
quite recovered yet--she was certainly anæmic, she was suffering from poorness of blood. She
ought to have gone to Schwalbach, Franzensbad or some other iron springs long ago--who knows,
perhaps many things would be different then.

He was not impatient--at least he did not show it--for he was moved with a deep compassion
for her. Of course she should go to some iron springs; they ought to have tried them long ago,
have made a point of it.

The Belgian doctor sent them to the well-known baths at Spa.

They arrived there full of hope. In her the hope was quite genuine. "You will see," she said
to her husband in a brighter voice, "this will do me good. I have a vague feeling--no, I really
feel quite sure that something good will happen to us here."

And he hoped so too. He forced himself to hope in order to please her. Oh, it would be enough,
quite enough if the characteristics of the landscape won so much interest from her that she
took up her painting again, which she had neglected entirely. How pleased he would be at even
that. If her former zeal for art showed itself again, that was a thousand times more health-bringing
than the strongest iron springs at Spa.

The heather was in bloom, the whole plateau was red, the purple sun set in a mass of purple.

It happened as he had hoped, that is to say, she did not begin to paint, but she made expeditions
into the Ardennes and the Eifel with him on foot and in a carriage, and enjoyed them. The Venn
had bewitched her. In her light-coloured dress she stood like a small speck of light in the
immense seriousness of the landscape, protected her eyes with her hand from the view of the
sun, which is so open there, so unobstructed either by tree or mountain, and took deep breaths
of the sharp clear air that has not yet been vitiated by any smoke from human dwellings, hardly
by human breath. Around her the Venn blossomed like a carpet of one colour, dark, calm, refreshing
and beneficial to the eye; it was only here and there that the blue gentian and the white quivering
flock of the cotton-grass were seen to raise their heads among the heather.

"Oh, how beautiful!" She said it with deep feeling. The melancholy of the landscape flattered
her mood. There was no gaudy tone there that disturbed her, no medley of colours. Even the
sun, which sets there in greater beauty than anywhere else--blushing so deeply that the whole
sky blushes with it, that the winding Venn rivulet hedged in by cushions of moss, that every
pool, every peat-hole full of water reflects its beams ruddy-gold, and the sad Venn itself
wears a mantle of glowing splendour--even this sun brought no glaringly bright light with it.
It displayed its mighty disc in a grand dignified manner, a serious victor after a serious
struggle.

Käte looked into this marvellous sun with large eyes bathed in tears, until the last beam,
the last rosy streak in the grey mass of clouds had vanished. Now it had gone--the heavens
were dead--but in the morning it would be there again, an eternal, imperishable, never-conquered
hope. Then should not, ought not the human heart to beat again too, revived anew, always full
of hope?

Clouds of mist sped across the moor, veiled, indescribable, vague shapes. There was a whispering
before the coming of the wind, a lisping through the heather and the cotton-grass--it seemed
to Käte as though the Venn had something to tell her. What was it saying? Ah, it must be for
some reason that she had come there, that she felt she was being held fast as though by a strong
and still kind hand.

She walked on with quicker, more elastic steps, as though she were searching for something.

Her husband was delighted that his wife was so pleased with the neighbourhood. True, the landscape
had no special attraction for him--was it not very desolate, monotonous and unfertile there?
But the characteristic scenery was certainly harmonious, very harmonious--well, if she found
pleasure in it, it was better than a paradise to him.

They often drove up to Baraque Michel, that lonely inn on the borders between Belgium and Prussia,
in which the douaniers drank their drams of gin when on the look-out for smugglers, and where
the peat-cutters dry their smocks that the mist has wetted and their saturated boots at the
fire that is always burning on the hearth.

So many crosses in the Venn, so many human beings who have met with a fatal accident. Käte
listened to the men's stories with a secret shudder--could the Venn be so terrible? and she
questioned them again and again. Was it possible that the man from Xhoffraix, who had driven
off to get peat litter, had been swallowed up there so close to the road with cart and horse,
and that they had never, never seen anything of him again? And that cross there, so weather-beaten
and black, how had that come into the middle of the marsh? Why had that travelling journeyman,
whose intention it was to go along the high road from Malmedy to Eupen, gone so far astray?
Had it been dark or had there been a heavy fall of snow so that he could not see, or was it
the cold, that terrible cold, in which a weary man can freeze to death? Nothing of the kind;
only a mist, a sudden mist, which confuses a man so, that he no longer knows which is forward
or which is backward, which is left or which is right, that he loses all idea of where he is
going, gets away from the road and runs round in a circle like a poor, mad, terrified animal.
And all the mists that rise in the Venn when daylight disappears, are they the souls of those
who have never been buried, and who in garments that are falling to pieces rise every night
from their graves, which have neither been consecrated by a benediction nor by holy water and
in which they cannot find rest?

That was a fairy tale. But was not everything there as in the fairy tale? So quite different
to everywhere else in the world, in reality ugly and yet not ugly, in reality not beautiful
and yet so exceedingly beautiful? And she herself, was she not quite a different being there?
Did she not wander about full of hope, in blissful dreams, like one to whom something wonderful
is to happen?

It was in the sixth week of their stay at Spa. The nights were already as cold as in winter,
but the days were still sunny. It was always a long journey up to the inn even for the strong
Ardennes horses, but Paul and his wife were there again to-day. Would they have to leave soon?
Alas, yes. Käte had to confess it to herself with sorrow. Everything was very autumnal, the
heather had finished flowering, the air was raw; the grass that had already been frozen during
the night rustled under her feet. They could have found use for their winter clothes.

"Ugh, how cold," said the man shivering, and he turned up the collar of his overcoat. He wanted
to twist a shawl round his wife's neck, but she resisted: "No, no!" She ran on in front of
him through the rustling heather with quick steps. "Just look."

It was a wide view that presented itself to their eyes there on the highest point in the Venn,
that is adorned with a rickety wooden tower. The whole large plateau covered with heather lay
before them, with here and there a group of dark firs that only showed spreading branches on
the side away from the storm. These firs that cowered so timidly were trees that had been planted
there; they were hardly higher than the heather, and only recognisable on account of their
different colour. And, here and there, there was a stray grey boulder and a cross that the
wind had carried to the side of it. And a calm lay over the whole in the pale midday autumn
light as though it were God's acre.

When they had climbed up the tower they saw still more. From the plateau they looked down into
the valley: a blue expanse around them, blue from the darkness of the forests and from autumn
vapours, and in the beautiful blue outstretched villages the white houses half hidden behind
tall hedges. And here, looking down on Belgium, with its grey fumes hanging like a cloud in
the clear transparent autumn air, lay the large town of Verviers with its church-towers and
factory chimneys towering above it.

Käte heaved a sigh and shuddered involuntarily: oh, was the workaday world so near? Was grey
life already approaching nearer and nearer to her wonderful fairy world?

Her husband gave a slight cough; he found it very cold up there. They went down from the tower,
but when he wanted to take her back to the inn she resisted: "No, not yet, not yet. That's
only the midday bell."

The bell was ringing in Fischbach Chapel, that ancient little church with its slated roof,
in whose tower the great red lantern was formerly hoisted to point out the safe harbour to
the wanderer swimming in the wild sea of mists, and the bell rung unceasingly to save the man
who had lost his way through his ear should his eye fail him. The bell rang out clear and penetrating
in the solitude, the only sound in the vast stillness.

"How touching that sound is." Käte stood with folded hands and looked into the wide expanse,
her eyes swimming in tears. What a charm there was in this Venn. It encircled the soul as the
tough underwood of the heather and the creeping tendrils of the club moss entangled the foot.
When she thought of how soon she would have to leave it, to go away from that immense stillness
that seemed to be concealing a secret, to be cherishing something marvellous in its deep lap,
her heart contracted in sudden fear. What would happen to her, what would become of her? Her
seeking soul stood like a child on the threshold of fairyland asking for something--was there
to be no gift for her?

"What was that?" All at once she seized hold of her husband's arm with a low cry of terror.
"Didn't you hear it as well?"

She had grown quite pale; she stood there with dilated eyes, raising herself on her toes with
an involuntary movement and craning her neck forward.

"There it is again. Do you hear it?" Something like a child's soft whimpering had penetrated
to her ear.

No, he had not heard anything. "I suppose there are some people in the neighbourhood. How you
do frighten a body, Käte." He shook his head a little angrily. "You know very well that all
the women and children have left their villages in the Venn to gather cranberries. That's all
the harvest they have, you see. Look, the berries are quite ripe." Stooping down he took up
a plant.

The small cluster of berries of a deep coral in colour formed a beautiful contrast to the glossy
dark green of the small oval leaf. But there were also some flowers on the plant, small pure
white flowers.

"Like myrtle, just like the flower on a myrtle," she said, taking the plant out of his hand.
"And the leaves are also exactly like myrtle leaves." Twisting the stalk round between her
finger and thumb she gazed at it thoughtfully. "The Venn myrtle." And, raising the little flower
to her mouth, she kissed it, full of delight.

"Do you still remember--that time--on the evening of our wedding-day, do you still remember?
You kissed the myrtle that had been in my wreath and I kissed it too, and then we kissed each
other. Then--then--oh, how happy we were then." She said it very softly, as though lost in
sweet memories.

He smiled, and as she swayed towards him, with a dreamy look in her eyes that were fixed the
whole time on the little green plant, he drew her closer and laid his arm round her. "And are
we not--not"--he wanted to say "not just as happy," but all he said was: "not happy to-day, too?"

She did not answer, she remained silent. But then, hurling the plant with its glossy leaves
away with a sudden movement, she turned and ran away from him blindly into the Venn, without
noticing where she was going.

"What's the matter, Käte?" He hurried after her, terrified. She ran so quickly that he could
not overtake her at once. "Käte, you'll fall. Wait, I say. Käte, what is the matter with you?"

No answer. But he saw from the convulsive movements of her shoulders that she was weeping violently.
Oh dear, what was the matter now? He looked troubled as he ran after her across the desolate
Venn. Was she never to get any better? It was really enough to make a fellow lose all pleasure
in life. How stupid it had been to bring her to the Venn--real madness. There was no brightness
to be found there. A hopelessness lurked in that unlimited expanse, a terrible hardness in
that sharp aromatic air, an unbearable melancholy in that vast stillness.

The man only heard his own quickened breathing. He ran more and more quickly, all at once he
became very anxious about his wife. Now he had almost reached her--he had already stretched
out his hand to seize hold of her fluttering dress--then she turned round, threw herself into
his arms and sobbed: "Oh, here's both, blossom and fruit. But our myrtle has faded and not
borne fruit--not fruit--we poor people."

So that was it--the same thing again? Confound it. He who as a rule was so temperate stamped
his foot violently. Anger, shame, and a certain feeling of pain drove the blood to his head.
There he stood now in that lonely place with his wife in his arms weeping most pitifully, whilst
he himself was deserving of much pity in his own opinion.

"Don't be angry, don't be angry," she implored, clinging more closely to him. "You see, I had
hoped--oh, hoped for certain--expected--I don't know myself what, but still I had expected
something here--and today--just now everything has become clear. All, all was in vain. Let me cry."

And she wept as one in whom all hope is dead.

What was he to say to her? How console her? He did not venture to say a word, only stroked
her hot face softly whilst he, too, became conscious of a certain feeling, that feeling that
he had not always the strength to push aside.

They stood like that for a long time without saying a word, until he, pulling himself together,
said in a voice that he tried to make calm and indifferent: "We shall have to return, we have
got quite into the wilds. Come, take my arm. You are overtired, and when we--"

"Hush," she said, interrupting him, letting go of his arm quickly. "The same as before. Somebody
is in trouble."

Now he heard it as well. They both listened. Was it an animal? Or a child's voice, the voice
of quite a small child?

"My God!" Käte said nothing more, but making up her mind quickly, she turned to the right and
ran down into a small hollow, without heeding that she stumbled several times among the bushes,
through which it was impossible for her to force a passage.

Her quick ear had led her right. There was the child lying on the ground. It had no pillow,
no covering, and was miserably wrapt up in a woman's old torn skirt. The little head with its
dark hair lay in the heather that was covered with hoar-frost; the child was gazing fixedly
into the luminous space between the heavens and the Venn with its large clear eyes.

There was no veil, nothing to protect it; no mother either--only the Venn.

Nevertheless they had deceived themselves. It was not crying, it was only talking to itself
as quiet contented children generally do. It had stretched out its little hands, which were
not wrapped up like the rest of its body, and had seized hold of some of the red berries and
squashed them. Then its little fists had wandered up to the hungry mouth; there were drops
of the juice from the berries on its baby lips.

"Quite alone?" Käte had sunk down on her knees, her hands trembled as they embraced the bundle.
"Oh, the poor child. How sweet it is. Look, Paul. How has it come here? It will die of cold,
of hunger. Do call out, Paul. The poor little mite. If its mother came now I would give her
a piece of my mind it's disgraceful to let the helpless little mite lie like this. Call--loud--louder."

He called, he shouted: "Heigh! Hallo! Is nobody there?"

No voice answered, nobody came. The whole Venn was as quiet as though it were an extinct, long-forgotten
world.

"Nobody is coming," whispered Käte quite softly, and there was an expression of fear and at
the same time trembling exultation in her voice. "Its mother does not trouble--who knows where
the woman is? I wonder if she's coming?" She looked round searchingly, turned her head in all
directions, and then stooped over the child again with a sigh of contentment.

What unpardonable thoughtlessness--no, what unspeakable barbarity to abandon such a mite in
that place. If they had come only a few hours--only an hour later. It might already have been
bitten by a snake then, might even have been torn to pieces by a wolf.

Then her husband had to laugh, although the sight of her over-excitement had slightly annoyed
him. "No, my child, there are no poisonous snakes here and no more wolves either, so you can
be at rest about that. But when the mists begin to rise, they would have done for him."

"Oh!" Käte pressed the foundling to her bosom. She was sitting on her heels holding the child
in her lap; she stroked its rosy cheeks, its little downy head, and showered caresses and flattering
words on it, but the child continued to gaze into the luminous space with its large, dark,
and yet so clear eyes. It did not smile, but it did not cry either; it took no notice whatever
of the strangers.

"Do you think it has been left here intentionally?" asked Käte suddenly, opening her eyes wide.
The blood flew to her head in a hot wave. "Oh then--then"--she drew a trembling breath and
pressed the child to her bosom, as though she did not want to let it go again.

"It will all be cleared up somehow," said the man evasively. "The mother will be sure to come."

"Do you see her--do you see her?" she inquired almost anxiously.

"No."

"No." She repeated it in a relieved tone of voice, and then she laughed. After that her eyes
and ears belonged entirely to the helpless little creature. "Where's baby--where is he then?
Laugh a little, do. Look at me once with those big, staring eyes. Oh, you little darling, oh,
you sweet child." She played with it and pressed kisses on its hands without noticing that
they were dirty.

"What are we to do now?" said the man, perplexed.

"We can't leave it here. We shall have to take it with us, of course." There was something
very energetic about the delicate-looking woman all at once. "Do you think I would forsake
the child?" Her cheeks glowed, her eyes gleamed.

Paul Schlieben looked at his wife with a certain awe. How beautiful she was at that moment.
Beautiful, healthy, happy. He had not seen her like that for a long time. Not since he had
folded her in his arms as a happy bride. Her bosom rose and fell quickly with every trembling
breath she took, and the child lay on her breast and the Venn myrtle bloomed at her feet.

A strange emotion came over him; but he turned away: what had that strange child to do with
them? Still he admitted in a hesitating voice: "We certainly can't leave it here. But do you
know what we can do? We'll take it with us to the inn. Give it to me, I'll carry it."

But she wanted to carry it herself, she only let him help her up. "There--there--come, my sweet
little babe." She raised her foot cautiously to take the first step--then a shout tied her
to the spot.

"Hallo!"

A rough voice had shouted it. And now a woman came up to them; the figure in the fluttering
skirt was outlined big and clear against the rarefied ether that flowed around it.

Where had she come from so suddenly? From there, from behind the mound of earth that had been
thrown up near the peat pit. She had been creeping on all fours plucking berries; a pail that
was almost ft 11 hung on her arm, and in her right hand she carried the wooden measure and
the large bone curry-comb with which she stripped off the berries.

That was the mother! Käte got a terrible fright; she turned pale.

Her husband was taken by surprise too. But then he gave a sigh of relief: that was decidedly
the best way out of it. Of course, they might have known it at once, how should the child have
come into the desolate Venn all alone? The mother had been looking for berries, and had put
it down there meanwhile.

But the woman did not seem to take it kindly that they had looked so carefully after the child
during her absence. The strong bony arms took it away from the lady somewhat roughly. The woman's
eyes examined the strangers suspiciously.

"Is it your child?" asked Paul. He need not have asked the question; it had exactly the same
dark eyes as the woman, only the child's were brighter, not dulled as yet by life's dust as
the mother's were.

The woman made no answer. It was only when the man asked once more, "Are you the mother?" and
put his hand into his pocket at the same time, that she found it worth while to give a curt nod:

"C'est l' mi'n."[A] Her face retained its gloomy expression; there was no movement of pride or joy.

[Footnote A: C'est le mien.]

Käte noticed it with a certain angry surprise. How indifferent the woman was. Was she not holding
the child as though it were a useless burden? She was filled with envy, torturing envy, and
at the same time with hot anger. That woman certainly did not deserve the child. She would
have liked to have torn it out of her arms. How rough she looked, what coarse features she
had, what a hard expression. She might really frighten anybody terribly with her black looks.
But now--now her expression brightened; ah, she had seen the piece of money Paul had taken
out of his purse.

Ugh, what a greedy expression she had now.

The fruit-picker stretched out her hand--there was a large shining silver coin--and when it
was given to her, when she held it in her hand she drew a deep breath; her brown fingers closed
round it tightly.

"Merci." A smile passed quickly across the sullen face in which the corners of the mouth drooped
morosely, her blunted expression grew animated for a moment or two. And then she prepared to
trudge away, the shapeless bundle containing the child on one arm, the heavy pail on the other.

They now saw for the first time how poor her skirt was; it had patches of all colours and sizes.
Dried heather and fir-needles stuck to her matted and untidy plaits, as they hung out from
the gaudily spotted cotton handkerchief; she had an old pair of men's hobnailed shoes on her
feet. They did not know whether she was old or young; her stout body and hanging breasts disfigured
her, but that her face had not been ugly once upon a time could still be seen. The little one
resembled her.

"You've got a pretty child," said Paul. To please his wife he started a conversation again
with this woman who was so inaccessible. "How old is the boy?"

The fruit-picker shook her head and looked past the questioner apathetically. There was no
getting anything out of the woman, how terribly stupid she was. The man wanted to let her go,
but Käte pressed up against him and whispered: "Ask her where she lives. Where she lives--do
you hear?"

"Heigh, where do you live, my good woman?"

She shook her head once more without saying a word.

"Where do you come from, I mean? From what village?"

"Je ne co'pr nay,"[A] she said curtly. But then, becoming more approachable--perhaps she hoped
for a second gift of money--she began in a whining, plaintive voice: "Ne n'ava nay de pan et
tat d's e'fa'ts."[B]

"You're a Walloon, aren't you?"

"Ay[C]--Longfaye." And she raised her arm and pointed in a direction in which nothing was to
be seen but the heavens and the Venn.

Longfaye was a very poor village in the Venn. Paul Schlieben knew that, and was about to put
his hand into his pocket again, but Käte held him back, "No, not her--not the woman--you must
hand it over to the vestryman for the child, the poor child."

[Footnote A: Je ne comprends pas.]

[Footnote B: Nous n'avons pas de pain et tant d'enfants.]

[Footnote C: Yes.]

She whispered softly and very quickly in her excitement.

It was impossible for the woman to have understood anything, but her black eyes flew as quick
as lightning from the gentleman to the lady, and remained fixed on the fine lady from the town
full of suspicion: if she would not give her anything, why should she let them ask her any
more questions? What did they want with her? With the curtest of nods and a brusque "adieu"
the Walloon turned away. She walked away across the marsh calmly but with long strides; she
got on quickly, her figure became smaller and smaller, and soon the faded colour of her miserable
skirt was no longer recognisable in the colourless Venn.

The sun had disappeared with the child; suddenly everything became grey.

Käte stood motionless looking in the direction of Longfaye. She stood until she shivered with
cold, and then hung heavily on her husband's arm; she went along to the inn with dragging feet,
as though she had grown tired all at once.

The mist began to conceal the bright midday. Cold damp air, which wets more than rain, made
their clothes clammy. The stinging flies from the swamps flew in big swarms through the door
and windows of the inn; a smouldering peat-fire was burning within, fanned to a bright flame
by means of dry fir twigs, and the flies clung to the wall near the fire-place and to the ceiling--no,
they would not die yet.

Autumn had come, sun and warmth had disappeared from the Venn, it was wise to flee now.

But outside, in the depths of the wilds above the highest point in the Venn, a lonely buzzard
was moving round and round in a circle, uttering the piercing triumphant cry of a wild bird.
He was happy there in summer as in winter. He did not want to leave.

CHAPTER III

The vestryman of the small village in the Venn felt somewhat surprised and embarrassed when
such a fine lady and gentleman drove up to his house and wished to speak to him. He went out
to them, walking through the filthy water in his yard that splashed up to his knees. He did
not know where he should take them to, as the little pigs and the calf were in the house and
the old sow was wallowing in front of the door.

So they walked up and down the quiet village street from which the few farms lay somewhat back,
whilst the carriage jolted slowly along in the deep ruts behind them.

Käte was pale, you could see from her eyes that she had only had very little sleep. But she
was smiling, and a happy excitement full of expectation was written on her features, spoke
in her gait; she was always a little ahead of the others.

Her husband's face was very grave. Was he not committing a great imprudence, acting in an extremely
hasty manner for the sake of his wife? If it did not turn out all right?

They had had a bad night. He had brought Käte home from the inn the day before in a strangely
silent and absent-minded mood. She had eaten nothing, and, feigning extreme fatigue, had gone
early to bed. But when he retired to rest a few hours later he found her still awake. She was
sitting up in bed with her beautiful hair hanging down her back in two long plaits, which gave
her quite a youthful appearance. Her bewildered eyes gazed at him full of a strange longing,
and then she threw both arms round his neck and drew his head down to her.

Her manner had been so strange, so gentle and yet so impetuous, that he asked her anxiously
whether there was anything the matter with her. But she had only shaken her head and held him
close in a silent embrace.

At last he thought she had fallen asleep--and she was asleep, but only for quite a short time.
Then she woke again with a loud cry. She had dreamt, dreamt so vividly--oh, if he knew what
she had been dreaming. Dreaming--dreaming--she sighed and tossed about, and then laughed softly
to herself.

He noticed that she had something on her mind, which she would like to tell him but which she
had hardly the courage to say. So he asked her.

Then she had confessed it to him, hesitatingly, shyly, and yet with so much passion that it
terrified him. It was the child of which she had been thinking the whole time, of which she
always must think--oh, if only she had it. She would have it, must have it. The woman had so
many other children, and she--she had none. And she would be so happy with it, so unspeakably
happy.

She had become more and more agitated in the darkness of the night, uninterrupted by a single
word from him, by any movement--he had lain quite quietly, almost as though the surprise had
paralysed him, although it could not really be called a surprise any more. What was her whole
life? she had said. A constant longing. All the love he showered on her could not replace the
one thing: a child, a child.

"My dear, good husband, don't refuse it. Make me happy. No other mother on earth will be so
happy--my darling husband, give me the child." Her tears were falling, her arms clasped him,
her kisses rained down on his face.

"But why just that child? And why decide so quickly? It's no trifle--we must think it over
very carefully first."

He had made objections, excuses, but she had pertinent answers ready for all. What was to be
thought over very carefully? They would not come to any other result. And how could he think
for a moment that the woman would perhaps not give them the child? If she did not love it,
she would be glad to give it, and if she did love it, then all the more reason for her to be
glad to give it, and to thank God that she knew it was so well taken care of.

"But the father, the father. Who knows whether he will agree to it?"

"Oh, the father. If the mother gives it, the father is sure to agree. One bread-eater less
is always a good thing for such poor people. The poor child, perhaps it will die for want of
food, and it would be so well"--she broke off--"isn't it like a dispensation of Providence
that just we should come to the Venn, that just we should find it?"

He felt that she was persuading him, and he strove against it in his heart. No, if she allowed
herself to be carried away by her feelings in such a manner--she was only a woman--then he,
as a man, must subordinate his feelings to common sense.

And he enumerated all the difficulties to her again and again, and finally said to her: "You
can't guess what troubles you may be preparing for yourself. If the affection you now think
you feel for the child should not last? If he is not congenial to you when he grows older?
Bear in mind, he is and will always be the child you have adopted."

But then she had almost flown into a passion. "How can you say such things? Do you think I
am narrow-minded? Whether it is my own child or a child I have adopted is quite immaterial,
as it becomes mine through its training. I will train it in my own way. That it is of your
own flesh and blood has nothing to do with it. Am I only to love a child because I have borne
it? Oh no. I love the child because--because it is so small, so innocent, because it must be
so extremely sweet when such a helpless little creature stretches out its arms to you." And
she spread out her arms and then folded them across her breast, as though she was already holding
a child to her heart. "You're a man, you do not understand it. But you are so anxious to make
me happy make me happy now. Dear, darling husband, you will very soon forget that it is not
our own child, you will soon not remember it any more. It will say 'Father,' 'Mother' to us--and
we will be its father and mother."

If she were right! He was silent, thrilled by a strange emotion. And why should she not be
right? A child that one trains according to one's own method from its first year, that is removed
entirely from the surroundings in which it was born, that does not know but what it is the
child of its present parents, that learns to think with their thoughts and feel with their
feelings, cannot have anything strange about it any more. It will become part of oneself, will
be as dear, as beloved as though one had begotten it oneself.

Pictures arose before his mind's eye which he no longer expected to see, no longer ventured
to hope for. He saw his smiling wife with a smiling child on her lap; he saw himself smile,
and felt a pride he had never known when he heard its soft childish voice lisp: "Fa-ther."
Yes, Käte was right, all the other things that go by the name of happiness are nothing compared
to this happiness. Only a father, a mother, knows what joy is.

He kissed his wife, and this kiss already meant half consent; she felt that.

"Let us drive there to-morrow, the first thing to-morrow morning," she implored, in a tone
of suppressed rapture.

He endeavoured to remain calm: after they had maturely considered the matter, they would first
have to talk it over with their lawyer in Berlin, and other intimate friends.

Then she lost her temper. She pouted, and then she laughed at him: was this a business matter?
What had the lawyer and other people to do with such a very important, quite personal and private
matter? Nobody was to be asked about it, nobody was to interfere with it. Not a single person
must suspect where the child came from or who were its parents. They, he and she, were its
parents, they were responsible for it, its life had begun when they took it, and they vouched
for its future. This child was their work, their work entirely.

"We'll fetch it the first thing to-morrow. The sooner it gets out of that dirt and misery the
better--don't you agree with me, Paul?" She did not give him a chance of saying anything more,
she overwhelmed him with plans and proposals, in her sparkling vivacity; and her exuberant
spirits overcame his scruples.

One can have too many scruples, be too cautious, and thus embitter every pleasure in life,
he said to himself. There was surely nothing extraordinary in what they were doing? They only
picked up something that had been laid at their feet; in that way they were obeying a hint
given them by Fate. And there were really no difficulties in connection with it. If they did
not betray it themselves nobody would find out about the child's antecedents, and there would
not be any questions asked in the village either as to what had become of it. It was a nameless,
homeless little creature they were going to take away with them, of which they would make what
they liked. Later on when the little one was old enough they would formally adopt it, and thus
confirm also in writing what their hearts had already approved of long ago. Now the only thing
left to do was to get hold of the vestryman at Longfaye, and make arrangements with the parents
for the surrender of the child with his assistance.

When Paul Schlieben had come to this decision, he was troubled with the same restlessness as
his wife. Oh, if only it were morning, she groaned. If anybody should steal a march on them
now, if the child should no longer be there next morning? She tossed about in her impatience
and fear. But her husband also turned from side to side without sleeping. How could they know
whether the child was healthy? For a moment he weighed anxiously in his mind whether it would
not be advisable to confide in the doctor at the baths at Spa--he might drive with them and
examine the child first of all--but then he rejected the thought again. The child looked so
strong. He recalled its sturdy fists, the clear look in its bright eyes--it had lain on the
bare ground in the cold and wind without any protection--it must have a strong constitution.
They need not trouble about that.

It was very early in the morning when husband and wife rose--weary as though all their limbs
were bruised, but driven on by a kind of joyful determination.

Käte ran about the room at the hotel, so busy, so happy and excited, as though she were expecting
a dear guest. She felt so sure they would bring the child back with them straightway. At all
events she would commence packing the trunks, for when they had got it they would want to get
home, home as quickly as possible. "The hotel is no place for such a little darling. It must
have its nursery, a bright room with flowered curtains--but dark ones besides to draw in front
of the windows so as to subdue the light when it goes to sleep--otherwise everything must be
bright, light, airy. And there must be a baby's chest-of-drawers there with all the many bottles
and basins, and its little bath, its bed with the white muslin curtains behind which you can
see it lying with red cheeks, its little fist near its head, slumbering soundly."

She was so young-looking, so lovely in her joyful expectation, that her husband was charmed
with her. Did not the sunshine seem to be coming now for which he had been waiting so long
in vain? It preceded the child, fell on its path, making it clear and bright.

Both husband and wife were full of excitement as they drove to Longfaye. They had taken a comfortable
landau that could be closed that day, instead of the light carriage for two in which they generally
made their excursions. It might be too cold for the child on the way back. Rugs and cloaks
and shawls were packed in it, quite a large choice.

Paul Schlieben had taken his papers with him. They would hardly be likely to want any proof
of his identity, but he stuck them into his pocket as a precaution, so as to provide against
any delay that might be caused by their absence. He had been told that the vestryman was quite
a sensible man, so everything would be settled smoothly.

As the rowan trees on both sides of the road bowed their tops under their autumn load of red
berries, so the heads of both husband and wife were bowed under a flood of thoughts full of
promise. The trees flew quickly past the carriage as it rolled along, and so did their lives'
different stages past their agitated minds. Fifteen years of married life--long years when
one is expecting something first with confidence, then with patience, then with faint-heartedness,
then with longing, with a longing that is kept more and more secret as the years go by, and
that becomes more and more burning on account of the secrecy. Now the fulfilment was at hand--a
fulfilment certainly different from what husbands and wives who love each other picture to
themselves, but still a fulfilment.

That old sentence in the Bible came into the woman's mind and would not be banished: But when
the fulness of the time was come, God sent forth His Son. Oh, this child from a strange, from
an unknown land, from a land that had neither fields nor fruits, and was not blessed with rich
harvests, this child was a gift from God, given by His goodness. She bowed her head full of
gratitude, as though she had received a blessing.

And the man pressed his wife's hand gently, and she returned the pressure. They remained sitting
hand in hand. His glance sought hers and she blushed. She loved him again as in the first year
of her marriage--no, she loved him much more now, for now, now he gave her the happiness of
her life, the child.

Her eyes that were full of bliss swept over the poor Venn district, which looked brown and
desolate, and which was still a fairyland full of the most glorious wonders.

"Didn't I know it?" she murmured triumphantly, although trembling with an agitation that was
almost superstitious. "I felt it--here--here."

She could hardly wait until they reached the village hi the Venn, oh, how far away from the
world it lay, so quite forgotten. And so poor. But the poverty did not terrify her, nor the
dirt--the result of the poverty; she was going to take the child away with her now, to take
him where there was culture and prosperity, and he would never know that he had lain on the
bare ground instead of in a soft bed. She thought of Moses. As he had been found in the bulrushes
on the banks of the Nile, so she had found him on the grass in the Venn--would he become a
great man like him? Desires, prayers, hopes, and a hundred feelings she had not known before
agitated her mind.

Paul Schlieben had some difficulty in making the vestryman understand him. It was not because
the man was a Walloon who hardly understood German, for Nikolas Rocherath of "Good Hope"--his
house having received that name because it could be seen a good distance off in the Venn, it
being the largest in the village--was a German, but because he could not understand what the
gentleman meant.

What did he want with Lisa Solheid's Jean-Pierre? Adopt him? He looked quite puzzled at first,
and then he got offended. No, even if he was nothing but a simple peasant, he would not let
the gentleman make a fool of him.

It was only by degrees that Schlieben could convince him that his intentions were serious.
But the old man still continued to rub his stubbly chin doubtfully and cast suspicious glances
at the lady and gentleman, who had broken in on his solitude so unexpectedly. It was only when
Käte, wearied and tortured by the long explanation, seized hold of his arm impatiently, and
looking into his face cried impetuously, almost angrily, "For goodness' sake do understand.
We have no child, but we want a child--now do you understand it?"--that he understood.

No child--oh dear! No child! Then people do not know what they are living for. Now he nodded
comprehendingly, and, casting a compassionate look at the lady who was so rich, so finely dressed
and still had no children, he became much more approachable. So they were so pleased with Lisa
Solheid's Jean-Pierre that they wanted to take him to Berlin with them? How lucky the boy was.
Lisa would not be able to believe it. But nobody would begrudge her it. Nobody in Longfaye
was as poor as she; many a day she did not know how to get sufficient food for herself and
her five. Formerly, whilst her husband was alive----

What, her husband was not alive? She was a widow? Paul Schlieben interrupted the vestryman,
and drew a long breath as though of relief. Although he had never spoken of it, he had always
had a secret fear of the father: if he turned out to be a drunkard or a ne'er-do-well? A load
fell from his mind now--he was dead, he could not do any more harm. Or had he died of an illness
after all, of a wasting disease that is handed down to children and children's children? He
had been told that the mists on the Venn and the sudden changes in the temperature may easily
be injurious to the lungs and throat--added to that hard work and bad food--surely the young
man had not died of consumption? He asked the question anxiously.

But Nikolas Rocherath laughed. No, Michel Solheid had never known a day's illness all his life,
and had not died of any illness. He had worked at the machine factory at Verviers, covered
with black soot and naked to the waist. Cold and heat had had no effect on him. And he used
to come over from Verviers every Saturday and spend Sunday with his family. And it had been
the Saturday before the festival of St. Peter and St. Paul somewhat over a year ago now, and
Michel had bought his wife a side of bacon and one or two pounds of coffee for the money he
had earned for overtime.

"You must know, sir, everything is much too dear for us here, and it is much cheaper on the
other side of the frontier," said the old man in a troubled voice; then, raising his fist slowly,
he shook it at the Venn that lay there so peaceful and remote from the world. "But they were
soon on his tracks. They came after him from the Baraque--the accursed douaniers. Three, four
of them. Now you must know that Michel could run as well as any of them. If he had thrown his
parcel behind a bush and run, they would never have caught him. But no, he would not, he would
have felt ashamed of himself if he had done so. So in order not to let them know where he was
going, he ran to the left through the Walloon Venn in the direction of Hill instead of to the
right. Then on through Clefay and Neckel,[A] and so on in all directions, and in this manner
he got away from the neighbourhood he knew as well as he knew his own pocket. They were close
at his heels above the Pannensterz. And they ran after him calling out 'Stop!'

[Footnote A: Wooded districts in the High Venn.]

"Look you, sir, if he had run into the Great Haard then and hidden in the thicket there, they
would never have found him without a dog. But he lost his head, and ran out of the bushes straight
across the Venn.

"'Halt!--Stop!'--and a third time 'Halt!' But he bounded along like a stag. Then one of them
pulled his trigger and--Jesus Christ have mercy upon us, now and at the hour of our death!"--the
vestryman devoutly made the sign of the cross and then wiped his nose with the back of his
hand--"the shot pierced the side of bacon and went into his back, in from behind, out at the
front. Then Solheid turned a somersault. It was a shame. Such a fine fellow, for a side of bacon.

"He still lived for over an hour. He told them that he was Solheid from Longfaye, and that
they should fetch his wife.

"I was just cutting my hedge that day, when somebody came running up. And I started off with
Lisa, who was six months gone with Jean-Pierre at the time. But when we came there it was already
too late.

"They had left him lying not far from the large cross. They had wanted to carry him to a house
at Ruitzhof, but he had said 'Leave me. I'll die here.' And he gazed at the sun.

"Sir, it was as large and red in the sky that day--as large--as it will be on the Day of Judgment.
Sir, he was bathed in sweat and blood--they had chased him for hours--but he still enjoyed
gazing at the sun.

"Sir, the fellow who had shot him was almost out of his mind; he held him on his knees and
wept. Sir, no,"--the vestryman gave himself a shake and his gestures expressed the aversion
he felt--"I would not like to be a douanier!"

The old man's voice had grown deeper and hoarser--it was a sign of the sympathy he felt--now
it got its former even-tempered ring again. "If it's agreeable to you, ma'am, we'll go now."

"Oh, the child, the poor child," whispered Käte, quite shaken.

"Do you think the widow will part with her youngest child?" asked Paul Schlieben, seized with
a sudden fear. This child that had been born after its father's death--was it possible?

"Oh!" the old man rocked his head to and fro and chuckled. "If you give a good sum for it.
She has enough of them."

Nikolas Rocherath was quite the peasant again now; it was no longer the same man who had spoken
of the sun in the Venn and Solheid's death. The point now was to get as much out of these people
as possible, to fleece a stranger and a townsman into the bargain to the best of his ability.

"Hundred thalers would not be too much to ask," he said, blinking sideways at the gentleman's
grave face. What a lot of money he must have, why, not a muscle of his face had moved.

The old peasant had been used to haggling all his life when trading in cattle, now he gazed
at the strange gentleman full of admiration for such wealth. He led the way to Solheid's cottage
with alacrity.

CHAPTER IV

Like all the houses in the village, the Solheids' cottage stood quite alone behind a hedge
that reached as high as the gable. But the hedge, which was to protect it against the storms
that raged in the Venn and the heavy snowdrifts, was not thick any longer; you could see that
there was no man's hand there to take care of it. The hornbeams had shot up irregularly; dead
branches lashed by the wind from the Venn stretched themselves in the air like accusing fingers.

Ugh, it must be icy cold there in the winter. Käte involuntarily drew her cloak of soft cloth
lined with silk more tightly round her. And it must be doubly dark there on dark days. Hardly
any light found its way through the tiny windows owing to the protecting hedge, and the roof
hung low over the entrance. There were no steps, you walked straight into the room.

The vestryman rattled the iron knocker on the door, which had once been painted green but had
no colour left now. The sound reverberated through the building, but the door did not open
when they tried it. The woman was probably among the berries, and the children with her. The
hungry screams of the youngest one was all that was heard inside the locked cottage.

The poor child--oh, she had left it alone again. Käte trembled with excitement, its screams
sounded to her like a call for help.

The vestryman sat down calmly on the chopping-block in front of the door and drew his pipe
out of the pocket of his blue linen smock, which he had hastily drawn over his working coat
in honour of the lady and the gentleman. Now they would have to wait.

The husband and wife looked at each other much disappointed. Wait? Käte had refused the seat
on the chopping-block, which the old man had offered her with a certain gallantry. She could
not rest, she walked restlessly up and down in front of the little window, trying in vain to
look through the dark pane.

The child inside screamed more and more loudly. Old Rocherath laughed: what a roar that was
to be sure, Jean-Pierre had powerful lungs.

Käte could not listen to the screams any longer, they tortured her both bodily and mentally.
Oh, how they made her ears tingle. She covered them with her hands. And her heart trembled
with compassion and anger: how could its mother remain away so long?

Her brow was wet with perspiration. She stared at the Venn, at the bare, treeless, tortuous
path with burning impatient eyes. At last she saw some figures--at last!--and yet her breath
stopped all at once, her heart ceased to beat and then suddenly went hammering on at a furious
pace as if mad. There came the child's mother!

Lisa Solheid was carrying a bundle of fagots on her back, which was fastened round her shoulders
with a rope The load was so heavy that it quite weighed her down, bending her head forward.
Three children--their small feet in clumsy shoes with big nails in them--stamped along in front
of their mother, whilst a fourth was clinging to her skirt. It had also been looking for cranberries,
and its little hands were coloured red like those of its older sister and brothers, who were
carrying pails, measure and comb.

Pretty children, all four of them. They had the same dark eyes as little Jean-Pierre, and they
stared with them half boldly, half timidly at the strange lady who was smiling at them.

The woman did not recognise the lady and gentleman again who had given her a present in the
Venn the day before--or did she only pretend not to?

The rope which had kept the bundle together had cut deep into her shoulders and bosom, now
she undid it and threw off the burden with a powerful jerk; and then, seizing hold of the axe
lying near the chopping-block, she began to chop up a couple of big branches with powerful strokes.

"Hallo, Lisa," said the vestryman, "when you have chopped sufficient wood to cook the cranberries,
just wait a bit."

She looked up at him for a moment. The strange lady and gentleman had gone a little aside--without
previous arrangement. Let the vestryman tell her first. It was not so simple a matter as they
had imagined. She was not very approachable.

Not a feature changed in the woman's reserved face; she went on with her work in silence, her
lips compressed. The wood was split up by means of her powerful blows, and the pieces flew
around her. Was she listening at all to what the man was saying to her?

Yes--the spectators exchanged a hasty glance--and now she was answering too in a more lively
manner than they would have supposed, judging from her sullen appearance.

Lisa Solheid raised her arm and pointed to the cottage in which the little one was still screaming.
Her speech--an almost barbaric dialect--sounded rough, they understood nothing of it except
a French word here and there. The vestryman spoke Walloon too. Both of them became excited,
raised their voices and spoke to each other in a loud voice; it sounded almost like quarrelling.

They did not seem to agree. Käte listened in suppressed terror. Would she give it? Would he
get it from her?

She pulled her husband's sleeve when nobody was looking. "Offer more, give her some more, a
hundred thalers is much too little." And he must also promise the peasant something for his
trouble. A hundred, two hundred, three hundred, a hundred times a hundred would not be too
much. Oh, how the poor child was screaming. She could hardly bear to stand outside the door
doing nothing any longer.

Little Jean-Pierre's sister and brothers--a beautiful girl with untidy hair and three younger
brothers--stood with their fingers in their mouths, their dirty noses unwiped, and did not
move from the spot.

Their mother spoke to them angrily, "Off with you!" And they darted off, one almost tumbling
over another. They scraped the key out of the little hole under the door, and the biggest of
them thrust it into the rusty lock, and, standing on her toes, turned it with all the strength
of her small hands.

Then the woman turned to the strange lady and gentleman; she made a gesture of invitation with
her thin right hand: "Entrez."

They stepped in. It was so low inside that Paul Schlieben had to bend his head so as not to
knock against the beams in the ceiling, and so dark that it took a considerable time before
they could distinguish anything at all. It could not have been poorer anywhere--one single
room in all. The hearth was formed of unhewn stones roughly put together, above it hung the
kettle in an iron chain that was made fast to the blackened beam; the smoke from the smouldering
peat ascended into the wide sooty chimney. A couple of earthenware plates in the plate-rack--cracked
but with gay-coloured flowers on them--a couple of dented pewter vessels, a milk-pail, a wooden
tub, a long bench behind the table, on the table half a loaf of bread and a knife, a few clothes
on some nails, the double bed built half into the wall, in which the widow no doubt slept with
the children now, and little Jean-Pierre's clumsy wooden cradle in front of it--that was all.

Really all? Käte looked round, shivering a little in the cold dark room that was as damp as
a cellar. Oh, how poor and comfortless. There were no ornaments, nothing to decorate it. Oh
yes, there was a glaringly gaudy picture of the Virgin Mary--a coarse colour-print on thin
paper--a vessel for holy water made of white china beneath it, and there on the other wall
close to the window so that the sparse light fell on it the picture of a soldier. A framed
and glazed picture in three divisions; the same foot-soldier taken three times. To the left,
shouldering his arms, on guard before the black and white sentry-box--to the right, ready to
march with knapsack and cooking utensils strapped on his back, bread-bag and field-flask at
his side, gun at his feet--in the centre, in full dress uniform as a lance-corporal, with his
hand to his helmet saluting.

That was no doubt the man, Michel Solheid as a soldier. Käte cast a timid glance at the picture--that
man had been shot in the Venn whilst smuggling. How terrible! She heard the old man tell the
story once more, saw the bleeding man lying in the heather, and the horror of his tragic end
made her shudder. Her glance fell on the picture again and again, the usual picture of a soldier
which told nothing whatever in its stereotyped inanity, and then on little Jean-Pierre's cradle.
Did he resemble his father much?

Paul Schlieben had expected his wife to speak--she would of course know best what to say to
the other woman--but she was silent. And the vestryman did not say anything either; as he had
started the negotiations he considered it polite to let the gentleman speak now. And Lisa Solheid
was also silent. All she did was to drive away the children, who wanted to fall upon the hard
bread on the table with ravenous appetites, with a silent gesture. Then she stood quietly beside
the cradle, her right hand, which still held the axe with which she had cut the wood, hanging
loosely by her side. Her face was gloomy, forbidding, and still a struggle was reflected on it.

Paul Schlieben cleared his throat. He would have preferred some other person to have settled
the matter for him, but, as this other person was not there and the vestryman only looked at
him expectantly, he was compelled to speak. With an affability which might have been taken
for condescension but which was nothing but embarrassment he said: "Frau Solheid, the vestryman
will have told you what has brought us to you--do you understand me, my good woman?"

She nodded.

"It's our intention to take your youngest child away with us"--he hesitated, for she had made
a movement as though she wanted to deny it--"as our own, to adopt it. Do you understand?"

She did not answer, but he continued with as much haste as if she had said yes. "We will treat
it as if it really were our own. We shall be able to do more for it than you would, of course,
and we----"

"Oh, and we'll love it so," his wife broke in.

The black-eyed woman turned her head slowly to the side where the fair-haired lady was standing.
It was a peculiar look with which she scanned the stranger, who had now approached the cradle.
Was it a scrutinising look or a forbidding one? A friendly or unfriendly one?

Käte looked at the child with longing eyes. It was no longer crying, it even smiled, and now--now
it stretched out its little arms. Oh, it was already so intelligent, it was looking at her,
it noticed already that she was fond of it. It tried to get up--oh, it wanted to go to her, to her!

Her face flushed with joy. She had already stretched out her hands to take the child, when
its mother pushed herself in front of the cradle like a wall.

"Neni,"[A] she said in Walloon, in a hard voice. She raised her empty left hand to ward Käte
off. And then she made the sign of the cross on the child's forehead and then on its breast.

[Footnote A: Non.]

But why, why would she not give it all at once? Käte trembled with dismay. She cast an imploring
look at her husband, as much as to say: "Help me. I must have the child."

And then her husband said what he wanted to say before when his wife had cut him short: "We
will secure your child's future. Do you know what that means, my good woman? It will never
have to trouble about its daily bread--never have to hunger. Never have to work to prolong
its life--only work for the pleasure of working. Do you understand?"

Work--for the pleasure of working? The woman shook her head, she did not understand him. But
then the words came into her mind: never hunger!--and a light shone in her dull eyes. Never
hunger--ah, the woman understood that; and still she shook her head again: "Neni!"

She pointed to herself and the other children, and then to the great Venn outside with a comprehensive
gesture:

"Nos avans tortos faim."[A] She shrugged her shoulders with the equanimity of one who is accustomed
to it, and it even looked as though she wanted to smile; the corners of her sullen mouth did
not droop quite so much, her lips that were generally tightly closed showed her strong healthy
teeth.

The vestryman stepped in now: "'Pon my word, Lisa, to hunger is surely no pleasure. Good heavens,
how can you be so foolish! The child will be taken from hell to heaven. Remember what I've
told you, the lady and gentleman are rich, very rich, and they are mad on the child--quick,
give it to them, you still have four."

Still four! She nodded reflectively, but then she threw her head back, and a look--now it was
plain, something like hatred flickered in it--flew to the others standing there so rich, so
fine, with rings on their ringers, and at whom her Jean-Pierre was peeping. "Neni!" She repeated
it once more and still more curtly and more obstinately than before.

But the vestryman was tenacious, he knew the people he had to deal with. "You must think it
over," he said persuasively. "And they'll give you a good sum, I tell you--won't you?" he asked,
turning to the gentleman. "Haven't you said you weren't particular to a coin or two in the
case of such a poor woman?"

"No, certainly not," assured Paul. And Käte was too precipitate again. "It does not matter
at all to us--we will gladly give what she asks--oh, the dear child!"

"Dju n' vous nin,"[B] muttered the woman.

[Footnote A: Nous avons tous faim.]

[Footnote B: Je ne veux pas.]

"You won't? Oh, nonsense." The old peasant almost laughed at her. "You are just like my Mayflower
when she won't stand, and kicks the milk-pail with her hind foot. Don't offend the people.
What advantage will it be to you if they grow impatient and go away? None at all. Then you
will have five who call out for bread, and the winter is near at hand. Do you want to have
such a winter as you had last year? Didn't Jean-Pierre almost die of cold? The four others
are already older, it's easier to rear them. And you can get a cow for yourself--just think
of that, a cow. And you could have a better roof put on the house, which won't let the rain
and the snow come through, and could have enough cranberries as well. It would certainly be
a good stroke of business, Lisa."

Käte wanted to add something more--oh, what a lot of good she would do the woman, if she would
only give the child to her!--but the old man cleared his throat and winked at her covertly
to warn her that she was to be silent.

"Kubin m'e dinroz--ve?"[A] inquired the woman all at once.

[Footnote A: Combien me donnerez-vous donc?]

She had been standing undecided for a long time with her head bowed, and a deep silence had
reigned around her. The strange lady and gentleman had not moved, nor had the vestryman; no
wind had whistled in the chimney, no fire crackled. A silent expectation weighed on them all.
Now she raised her head, and her gloomy eyes glanced at the miserable room, the small quantity
of bread on the table and then at the hungry four, as though examining everything. She no longer
looked at the fifth child. She had grown pale, the deep sunburn on her face had turned a greyish
colour.

"What's he going to give you? Well, what will you give her?" said the peasant encouragingly.
"I think you'll see that two hundred is too little. The woman is very much attached to the
child, it will not be easy for her to give it up." He watched Paul Schlieben out of the corner
of his eye, and called out as they call out at an auction: "Two hundred, two hundred and fifty,
three hundred. 'Pon my word, it isn't too much. Jean-Pierre is a fine boy--just look at his
fists. And his thighs. A splendid fellow." He noticed the longing expression in Käte's eyes--"Three
hundred thalers is not worth talking about for the boy, is it, ma'am?"

Käte had tears in her eyes and was very pale. The air in the cottage oppressed her, it was
all very repugnant to her--let them only get away quickly from there. But not without the child.
"Four hundred--five hundred," she jerked out, and she gazed imploringly at her husband as though
to say: "Do settle it quickly."

"Five hundred, willingly." Paul Schlieben drew out his pocket-book.

The peasant craned his neck forward the better to see. His eyes were quite stiff in his head,
he had never seen anybody pay so willingly before. The children, too, stared with wide-open eyes.

The woman cast a hasty glance at the notes the gentleman spread on the table near the bread;
but the covetous light that flashed in her eyes disappeared suddenly again. "Neni," she said
sullenly.

"Offer her some more--more," whispered the old man.

And Schlieben laid another couple of notes on the table beside the others; his fingers trembled
a little as he did it, the whole thing was so unspeakably repugnant to him. He had never thought
of haggling; they should have what they wanted, only let them get done with it.

Nikolas Rocherath could not contain himself any longer at the sight of such generosity--so
much money on the table, and that woman could still hesitate? He rushed up to her and shook
her by the shoulders: "Are you quite mad? Six hundred thalers on the table and you don't take
them? What man here can say he has six hundred thalers in cash? What money, what a sum of money!"
His emaciated face, which had grown very haggard from years of toil and a life lived in wind
and storm and which was as sharply outlined as though cut out of hard wood, twitched. His fingers
moved convulsively: how was it possible that anybody could still hesitate?

The axe which the woman still held fell out of her hand with a loud noise. Without raising
her head, without looking at the table or at the cradle she said in a loud voice--but there
was no ring in the voice: "Allons bon. Djhan-Pire est da vosse."[A]

[Footnote A: Eh bien. Jean-Pierre est à vous.]

And she turned away, walked to the hearth with a heavy tread and raked up the smouldering peat.

What indifference! This woman certainly did not deserve to be a mother. Käte's gentle eyes
began to blaze. Schlieben was angry too; no, they need not have any scruples about taking the
child away from there. He was filled with disgust.

The woman behaved now as though the whole affair did not concern her any longer. She busied
herself at the hearth whilst the vestryman counted the notes--licking his fingers repeatedly
and examining both sides of each one--and then put them carefully into the envelope which the
gentleman had given him.

"There they are, Lisa, put them into your pocket."

She tore them out of his hand with a violent gesture, and, lifting up her dress to a good height,
she slipped them into her miserable ragged petticoat.

The last thing had still to be settled. Even if Paul Schlieben felt certain that nobody there
would inquire about the child any more, the formalities had to be observed. Loosening his pencil
from his watch-chain--for where was ink to come from there?--he drew up the mother's deed of
surrender on a leaf from his pocketbook. The vestryman signed it as witness. Then the woman
put her three crosses below; she had learnt to write once, but had forgotten it again.

"There!" Paul Schlieben rose from the hard bench on which he had sat whilst writing with a
sigh of relief. Thank goodness, now everything was settled, now the vestryman had only to procure
him the birth and baptismal certificates and send them to him. "Here--this is my address. And
here--this is for any outlay." He covertly pressed a couple of gold coins into the old man's
hand, who smiled when he felt them there.

Well, now they would take the boy with them at once? he supposed.

Käte, who had been standing motionless staring at the mother with big eyes as though she could
not understand what she saw, woke up. Of course they would take the child with them at once,
she would not leave it a single hour longer there. And she took it quickly out of the cradle,
pressed it caressingly to her bosom and wrapped it up in the warm wide cloak she was wearing.
Now it was her child that she had fought such a hard battle for, had snatched from thousands
of dangers, her darling, her sweet little one.

Little Jean-Pierre's sister and brothers stood there in silence with eyes wide open. Had they
understood that their brother was going away, going for ever? No, they could not have understood
it, otherwise they would have shown how grieved they were. Their big eyes were only interested
in the bread on the table.

Paul Schlieben pitied the little ones greatly--they would remain there in their wretchedness,
their hunger, their poverty. He stuck a present into the hands of all four. None of the four
thanked him for it, but their small fingers clasped the money tightly.

The woman did not thank him either. When the strange lady took Jean-Pierre out of the cradle--she
had seen it without looking in that direction--she had started. But now she stood motionless
near the empty cradle, on the spot where the axe had fallen out of her right hand before with
a loud noise, looking on in silence whilst Jean-Pierre was being wrapped up in the soft cloak.
She had nothing to give him.

Paul Schlieben had feared there would be a scene at the very last in spite of the mother's
indifference--she surely could not remain so totally void of feeling, when they carried her
youngest child away with them?--but the woman remained calm. She stood there motionless, her
left hand pressed against the place in her skirt where she felt the pocket. Did not that money
in her pocket--Paul felt very disturbed--give the lie to all the traditions about a mother's
love? And still--the woman was so demoralised by her great poverty, half brutalised in the
hard struggle for her daily bread, that even the feeling she had for the child she had borne
had vanished. Oh, what a different mother Käte would be to the child now. And he pushed his
wife, who had the little one in her arms, towards the door, in his tender anxiety for her.

Let them only get away, it was not a nice place to be in.

They hastened away. Käte turned her head once more when she reached the threshold. She would
have to cast a glance at the woman who remained behind so stiff and silent. Even if she were
incomprehensible to her, a compassionate glance was her due.

Then ... a short cry, but loud, penetrating, terrible in its brevity, a cry that went through
nerve and bone. One single inarticulate cry that agony and hatred had wrung from her.

The woman had stooped down. She had snatched up the axe with which she had chopped the wood.
She raised her arm as though to throw something--the sharp edge flashed past the lady's head
as she hurried away, and buried itself in the door-post with a crash.

CHAPTER V

They had hastened away with the child as though they were running away. They had bundled it
into the carriage--quick, quick--the coachman had whipped up the horses, the wheels had turned
round with a creaking noise. The village in the Venn remained behind them, buried like a bad
dream one wants to forget.

A dull grey lay over the Venn. The sun, which had been shining in the morning, had quite disappeared,
as though not a single beam had ever been seen there. The Venn mist, which rises so suddenly,
was there covering everything. There was a wall now where there had been a wide outlook before.
A wall not of stone and not of bricks, but much stronger. It did not crack, it did not burst,
it did not totter, it did not give way before the hammer wielded by the strongest hand. It
shaped itself out of the morasses, powerful and impenetrable, and stretched from the moor up
to the clouds--or was it the clouds that had lowered themselves to the earth?

The heavens and the Venn, both alike. Nothing but grey, a tough, damp, cold, liquid and still
firm, unfathomable, mysterious, awful grey. A grey from which those who lose themselves on
the moor never find their way out. The mist is too tenacious. It has arms that grip, that embrace
so tightly, that one can neither see forward nor backward any more, neither to the left nor
to the right, that the cry that wants to escape from a throat that is well-nigh choked with
terror is drowned, and that the eye becomes blind to every road, every footprint.

The driver cursed and beat his horses. There was nothing more to be seen of the road, nothing
whatever, no ditch at the side of it, no telegraph poles, no small rowan trees. The broad road
that had been made with such difficulty had disappeared in the grey that enfolded the Venn.
It was fortunate that the horses had not lost their way as yet. They followed their noses,
shook their long tails, neighed shrilly and trotted courageously into the sea of mist.

Käte shuddered as she wrapped herself and the child up more tightly; they required all the
warm covering now which they had taken with them so providently. Her husband packed her up
still more securely, and then laid his arm round her as though to protect her. It was a terrible
journey.

They had had the carriage closed, but the cold grey forced its way in notwithstanding. It penetrated
through all the crevices, through the window-panes, filled the space inside so that their faces
swam in the damp twilight like pale spots, and laid itself heavily, obstructively on their breath.

Käte coughed and then trembled. There was no joy in her heart now, all she felt was terror,
terror on account of the possession she had had to fight so hard to obtain. If the mother were
to come after them now--oh, that terrible woman with the glittering axe. She closed her eyes
tightly, full of a horror she had never felt the like to before--oh, she could not see it again!
And still she opened her eyes wide once more, and felt the cold perspiration on her brow and
her heart trembling--alas, that sight would pursue her even in her dreams. She would not get
rid of it until her last hour--never, never again--she would always see that woman with the
glittering axe.

It had whizzed close past her head--the draught of air caused by it had made the hair on her
temples tremble. It had done nothing to her, it had only buried itself in the door-post with
a loud noise, splitting it. And still she had come to harm. Käte pressed both her hands to
her temples in horror: she would never, never get rid of that fear.

Her heart was filled with an almost superstitious dread, a dread as though of a ghost that
haunted the place. Let them only get away from there, never to return. Let them only destroy
every trace as they went along. That woman must never know where they had gone. She knew it
was to Berlin--they had unfortunately given the vestryman their address--but Berlin was so
far away, the woman from the Venn would never come there.

And the Venn itself? Ugh! Käte looked out into the grey mist, trembling with horror. Thank
God, that would remain behind, that would soon be forgotten again. How could she ever have
considered this desolate Venn beautiful? She could not understand it. What charm was there
about these inhospitable plains, on which nothing could grow except the coarse grass and tough
heather? On which no corn waved its spikes, no singing-bird piped its little song, no happy
people lived sociably; where there was, in short, no brightness, no loud tones, only the silence
of the dead and crosses along the road. It was awful there.

"Paul, let us leave to-day--as quickly as possible," she jerked out, full of terror, whilst
her eyes sought in vain for a glimpse of light.

He was quite willing. He felt ill at ease too. If this woman, this fury, had hit his wife in
her sudden outburst of rage? But he could not help blaming himself: who had bade him have anything
to do with such people? They were not a match for such barbarous folk.

And he was seized with a feeling of aversion for the child sleeping so peacefully on his wife's
arm. He looked gloomily at the little face; would he ever be able to love it? Would not the
memory of its antecedents always deter him from liking it? Yes, he had been too precipitate.
How much better it would have been if he had dissuaded his wife from her wish, if he had energetically
opposed her romantic idea of adopting this child, this particular child.

He frowned as he looked out of the window, whilst the grey mist clung to the pane and ran down
it in large drops.

The wind howled outside; it had risen all at once. And it howled still louder the nearer they
approached the top of the high Venn, whined round their carriage like an angry dog and hurled
itself against the horses' chests. The horses had to fight against it, to slacken their trot;
the carriage only advanced with difficulty.

The child must never, never know from whence it came, as otherwise--the new father was wrapped
in thought as he stared into the Venn, whose wall of mist was now and then torn asunder by
a furious gust of wind--as otherwise--what was he going to say? He passed his hand over his
brow and drew his breath heavily. Something like fear crept over him, but he did not know why.

As he cast a look at his wife, he saw that she was quite absorbed in the contemplation of the
sleeping child, which did not lessen his ill humour. He drew away her right hand, with which
she was supporting its head that had fallen back: "Don't do that, don't tire yourself like
that. It will sleep on even without that." And as she gave an anxious "Hush!" terrified at
the thought that the little sleeper might have been disturbed, he said emphatically, "I must
tell you one thing, my child, and must warn you against it, don't give him your whole heart
at once--wait a little first."

"Why?" Something in his voice struck her and she looked at him in surprise. "Why do you say
that so--so--well, as if you were vexed?" Then she laughed in happy forgetfulness. "Do you
know--yes, it was horrible, awful in those surroundings--but thank God, now it's over. A mother
forgets all she has suffered at the birth of her child so quickly--why should I not forget
those horrors to-day too? Do look"--and she stroked little Jean-Pierre's warm rosy cheek carefully
and caressingly as he slept--"how innocent, how lovely. I am so happy. Come, do be happy too,
Paul, you are generally so very kind. And now let's think about what we are to call the boy"--her
voice was very tender--"our boy."

They no longer heard the wind that had increased to a storm by now. They had so much to consider.
"Jean-Pierre," no, that name should not be kept in any case. And they would go from Spa to
Cologne that evening, as they would not dare to engage a nurse before they were there; not
a single person there would have any idea about the Venn, of course. And they would also buy
all the things they required for the child in Cologne as soon as possible.

How were they to get on until then? Paul looked at his wife quite anxiously: she knew nothing
whatever about little children. But she laughed at him and gave herself airs: when Providence
gives you something to do, it also gives you the necessary understanding. And this little darling
was so good, he had not uttered a sound since they left. He had slept the whole time as though
there was nothing called hunger or thirst, as though there was nothing but her heart on which
he felt quite at ease.

It gradually became more comfortable in the carriage. It seemed as though a beneficial warmth
streamed forth from the child's body, as it rested there so quietly. The breath of life ascended
from its strong little chest that rose and fell so regularly; the joy of life glowed in its
cheeks that were growing redder and redder; the blessings of life dropped from those tiny hands
that it had clenched in its sleep. The woman mused in silence and with bated breath as she
gazed at the child in her lap, and the man, who felt strangely moved, took its tiny fist in
his large hand and examined it, smiling. Yes, now they were parents.

But outside the carriage the air was full of horrors. It is only in the wild Venn that there
can be such storms in autumn. Summer does not depart gently and sadly there, winter does not
approach with soft, stealthy steps, there is no mild preparatory transition. The bad weather
sets in noisily there, and the warmth of summer changes suddenly into the icy cold of winter.
The storm whistles so fiercely across the brown plateau that the low heather bends still lower
and the small juniper trees make themselves still smaller. The wind in the Venn chases along
whistling and shrieking, clamouring and howling, pries into the quagmires and turf pits, whips
up the muddy puddles, throws itself forcibly into the thickets of fir trees that have just
been replanted, so that they groan and moan and creak as they cower, and then rages on round
the weather-worn crosses.

The blast roars across the moor like the sound of an organ or is it like the roar of the foaming
breakers? No, there is no water there that rises and falls and washes the beach with its white
waves, there is nothing but the Venn; but it resembles the sea in its wide expanse. And its
air is as strong as the air that blows from the sea, and the shrill scream of its birds is
like the scream of the sea-mew, and nature plays--here as there--the song of her omnipotence
on the organ of the storm with powerful touch.

The small carriage crept over the top of the high Venn. The winds wanted to blow it down, as
though it were a tiny beetle. They hurled themselves against it, more and more furiously, yelped
and howled as though they were wolves, whined round its wheels, snuffed round its sides, made
a stand against it in front and tugged at it from behind as though with greedy teeth: away
with it! And away with those sitting inside it! Those intruders, those thieves, they were taking
something away with them that belonged to the Venn, to the great Venn alone.

It was a struggle. Although the driver lashed away at them the brave horses shied, then remained
standing, snorting with terror. The man was obliged to jump off and lead them some distance,
and still they continued to tremble.

Something rose out of the pits and beckoned with waving gauzy garments, and tried to hold fast
with moist arms. There was a snatching, a catching, a reaching, a tearing asunder of mists
and a treacherous rolling together again, a chaos of whirling, twirling, brewing grey vapours;
and plaintive tones from beings that could not be seen.

Had all those in the graves come to life again? Were those rising who had slept there, wakened
by the snorting of the horses and the crack of the whip, indignant at being disturbed in their
rest? What were those sounds?

The quiet Venn had become alive. Piercing sounds and whistling shrill cries and groaning and
the flapping of wings and indignant screams mingled with the dull roar of the organ of the storm.

A flight of birds swam through the sea of mist. They rowed to the right, they rowed to the
left, looked down uneasily at the strange carriage, remained poised above it for some moments
with wings spread out ready to strike it to the ground, and then uttered their cry, the startled,
penetrating cry of a wild bird. There was nothing triumphant about it to-day--it sounded like
a lamentation.

And the Venn wept. Large drops fell from the mist. The mist itself turned into tears, to slowly
falling and then to rushing, streaming, never-ending tears.

CHAPTER VI

The Schliebens had reached Berlin safely. Käte was exhausted when she got out of the train;
her hair was untidy, she did not look quite so smart as usual. It had been no trifle to make
that long journey with the child. But they had been fortunate hi finding a good nurse so quickly
in Cologne--a widow, fond of children and experienced, a typical, comfortable-looking nurse;
however, the mother had had enough to see to all the same. Had the child caught cold, or did
it not like its bottle? It had cried with all the strength of its lungs--no carrying about,
rocking, dandling, singing to it had been of any avail--it had cried with all its might the
whole way to Berlin.

But, thank goodness, now they were at home. And everything was arranged as quickly as if by
magic. True, the comfortable house they had had before was let, but there was villa after villa
in the Grunewald, and, as they required so much more room now, they moved into one of those.
They rented it to begin with. Later on they would no doubt buy it, as it was quite impossible
to take a child like this one into a town. It would have to have a garden.

They called him Wolfgang. "Wolf" had something so concise, vigorous, energetic about it, and--Käte
gave a slight happy shudder as she thought of it--it was like a secret memory of the Venn,
of that desolate spot over which they had triumphed, and to which they made only this slight
concession. And did not "Wölfchen"--if they made that the diminutive of Wolf--sound extremely
affectionate?

"Wölfchen"--the young mother said it about a hundred times every day.

The young mother? Oh yes, Käte felt young. Her child had made her young again, quite young.
Nobody would have taken her for thirty-five, and she herself least of all. How she could run,
how she could fly upstairs when they said: "The child is awake. It's screaming for its bottle."

She, who had formerly spent so many hours on the sofa, never found a moment's time to lie down
the whole day; she slept all the more soundly at night as a result. It was quite true what
she had heard other women say: a little child claims its mother's whole attention. Oh, how
empty, colourless those days had been in which she had only existed. It was only now that there
was meaning, warmth, brilliancy in her life.

She walked every day beside the child's perambulator, which the nurse pushed, and it was a
special pleasure to her to wheel the light little carriage with its white lacquer, gilt buttons
and blue silk curtains herself now and then. How the people stared and turned round when they
saw the handsome perambulator--no, the beautiful child. Her heart beat with pleasure, and when
her flattered ear caught the cries of admiration, "What a fine child!" "How beautifully dressed!"
"What splendid eyes!"--it used to beat even more quickly, and a feeling of blissful pride took
possession of her, so that she walked along with head erect and eyes beaming with happiness.
Everybody took her to be the mother, of course, the young child's young mother, the beautiful
child's beautiful mother. How often strangers had already spoken to her of the likeness: "The
exact image of you, Frau Schlieben, only its hair is darker than yours." Then she had smiled
every time and blushed deeply. She could not tell the people that it really could not resemble
her at all. She hardly remembered herself now that not a drop of her blood flowed in Wölfchen's
veins.

It looked at her the first thing when it awoke. Its little bed with its muslin curtains stood
near the nurse's, but its first look was for its mother and also its last, for nobody knew
how to sing it to sleep as well as she did.

           "Sleep sound, sweetest child,
            Yonder wind howls wild.
            Hearken, how the rain makes sprays
            And how neighbour's doggie bays.
            Doggie has gripped the man forlorn
            Has the beggar's tatter torn----"

sounded softly and soothingly in the nursery evening after evening, and little Wolf fell quietly
asleep to the sound of it, to the song of the wind and the rain round defenceless heads, and
of beggars whose garments the dog had torn.

Paul Schlieben had no longer any cause to complain of his wife's moods. Everything had changed;
her health, too, had become new, as it were, as though a second life had begun. And he himself?
He felt much more inclination for work now. Now that he had returned to business he felt a
pleasure he had never experienced before when he saw that they were successful in their new
ventures. He had never been enterprising before--what was the good? He and his wife had ample
for all their requirements. Of course he had always been glad to hear when they had done a
good stroke of business, but he could not say it had ever pleased him to make money. He had
always found more pleasure in spending it.

His father had been quite different in that respect. He had never been so easy-going, and as
long as he lived he had always reproached himself for having let his only son serve as a soldier
in a cavalry regiment. Something of a cavalryman's extravagance had clung to him, which did
not exactly agree with the views of the very respectable well-to-do merchant of the middle
class. And his daughter-in-law? Hm, the old gentleman did not exactly approve of her either
in his heart. She had too much modern stuff in her head, and Paul had followed her lead entirely.
You could be cultured--why not?--and also take an interest in art without necessarily having
so little understanding for the real things of life.

This honest man, this merchant of the old stamp and true son of Berlin, had not had the joy
of seeing what his partners now saw with unbounded astonishment. They had no need to shrug
their shoulders at the man's lack of interest in the business any longer, and make pointed
remarks about the wife who took up his attention so entirely; now he felt the interest they
wished him to have. He was pleased to fall in with their plans now. He himself seemed to want,
nay, even found it necessary to form new connections, to extend the calm routine of their business
right and left, on all sides. He showed a capacity for business and became practical all at
once. And in the middle of his calculations, whilst sitting absorbed at his desk, he would
catch himself thinking: "that will be of use to the boy in the future." But at times this thought
could irritate him so much that he would throw down his pen and jump up angrily from his desk:
no, he had only adopted the child to please his wife, he would not love him.

And yet when he came home to dinner on those delightful afternoons, on which he could smell
the pines round his house and the pure air still more increased the appetite he had got from
his strenuous work, and the boy would toddle up to him patting his little stomach and cry:
"Daddy--eat--taste good," and Käte appear at the window, laughing, he could not refrain from
swinging the hungry little chatterbox high up into the air, and only put him down on his feet
again after he had given him a friendly slap. He was a splendid little chap, and always hungry.
Well, he would always have sufficient to eat, thank God.

A certain feeling of contentment would come over the man on those occasions. He felt now what
he had never felt before, that one's own home means happiness. And he felt the benefit of having
an assured income, that allowed him to enrich his life with all sorts of comforts. The house
was pretty. But when he bought it shortly he would certainly add to it, and buy the piece of
ground next to it as well. It would be extremely disagreeable if anybody settled down just
under their noses.

It had been difficult for Paul to make up his mind to take a house in the Grunewald at the
time, after he had lived in Berlin itself as long as he could remember. But now he looked upon
his wife's idea of going out there as a very good one. And not only for the child's sake. One
enjoyed one's home in quite a different manner out there; one realised much more what it meant
to have a home. And how much healthier it was--one's appetite certainly became enormous. In
time one would think of nothing but material comforts. And the man followed the hungry boy
into the house, as he also felt quite ready for his dinner.

Wolfgang Solheid, called Schlieben, received his first trousers. It was a grand day for the
whole house. Käte had him photographed in secret, as there had never been a boy who looked
prettier in his first trousers. And she placed the picture of the little fellow who was not
yet three years old--white trousers, white pleated tunic, horse under his arm, whip in his
hand--in the middle of her husband's birthday table, surrounded by a wreath of roses. That
was the best she could give him among all the many presents. How robust Wölfchen was. They
had not noticed it so much before; he was as big as a boy of four. And how defiant he looked,
as bold as a boy of five, who is already dreaming of fighting other boys.

The woman showed the man the picture full of delight, and there was such a gleam in her eyes
that he felt very happy. He thanked her many times for the surprise and kissed her: yes, this
picture should stand near hers on his writing-table. And then they both played with the boy,
who romped about on the carpet in his first pair of trousers, which he still found rather uncomfortable.

Paul Schlieben could not remember ever having spent such a pleasant birthday as this one. There
was so much brightness around him, so much merriment. And even if Wolf had torn his first pair
of trousers by noon--how and where it had been done was quite incomprehensible to the dismayed
nurse--that did not disturb the birthday; on the contrary, the laughter became all the gayer.
"Tear your trousers, my boy, tear away," whispered his mother, smiling to herself as the damage
was pointed out to her, "just you be happy and strong."

There was a party in the evening. The windows of the pretty villa were lighted up and the garden
as well. The air was balmy, the pines spread their branches motionless under the starry sky,
and bright coloured lanterns glittered in the bushes and along the paths that were overgrown
with trees like large glow-worms.

Wölfchen was asleep on the first floor of the villa, in the only room that was not brightly
lighted up. There was nothing but a hanging lamp of opal there, and every noise was kept away
by thick curtains and Venetian blinds. But they drank his health downstairs.

The guests had already drunk the health of the master of the house at the table, and then that
of his amiable wife--what greater honour could they pay their popular host and hostess now
than to drink the health of the boy--their boy?

Dr. Hofmann, the tried doctor and friend of the family for many years, asked if he might have
the privilege of saying a few words. He, as doctor, as counsellor on many an occasion, was
best able to say what had always been wanting there. Everything had been there, love and complete
understanding and also outward happiness, everything except--here he paused for a moment and
nodded to his hostess who was sitting opposite to him, in a friendly manner full of comprehension--except
a child's laughter. And now that was there too.

"A child's laughter--oh, what a salvation!" he cried with twinkling eyes and voice full of
emotion, as he thought of his own three, who were certainly already independent and had chosen
their paths in life, but their laughter still sounded in his heart and ear.

"No child--no happiness. But a child brings happiness, great happiness. And especially in this
case. For I, as a doctor, have hardly ever feasted my eyes on a more magnificent chest, a more
splendidly developed skull, straighter legs and brighter eyes. All his senses are sharp; the
lad hears like a lynx, sees like a falcon, smells like a stag, feels--well, I've been told
that he is already up in arms against the slightest corporal punishment. It is only his taste
that is not so finely developed as yet--the boy eats everything. However, this is again a new
proof to me of his very great physical superiority, for, ladies and gentlemen"--at this point
the doctor gave a jovial wink--"who does not agree with me? a good stomach that can stand everything
is the greatest gift a kind Providence can give us on our journey through life. The boy is
a favourite of fortune. A favourite of fortune in the two-fold meaning of the word for not
only is he perfectly happy in himself, but his entry on the scene has also brought happiness
to those around him. Our dear hostess, for example, have we ever seen her like this before?
So young with those who are young, so happy with those who are happy? And our honoured friend
here--nobody could imagine that he had climbed to the middle of the forties--he is as full
of energy, of plans and enterprise as a man of twenty. And at the same time he has the beautiful
calm, the comfortable appearance of the happy father who has had his desires gratified. And
this fortunate boy is the cause of it all. Therefore thanks be to the hour that gave him, the
wind that brought him here. From whence----?"

The doctor, who had a small vein of malice in his nature, here made a pause intentionally,
cleared his throat and straightened his waistcoat, for he saw many curious eyes fixed on him
full of expectation. But he also saw the quick perturbed look the husband and wife exchanged,
saw that Frau Schlieben had grown pale and was hanging anxiously, almost imploringly, on his
lips, so he continued hastily with a good-natured laugh: "From whence, ladies--only have patience.
I'll tell you now: he fell from the skies. Just as the falling star falls to earth on a summer
night. And our dear hostess, who was just going for a walk, held out her apron and carried
him home to her house. And so he has become the star of this house, and we all and I especially--even
if I have become superfluous here in my capacity of doctor--are pleased with him without asking
from whence he came. All good gifts come from above--we learnt that already in our childhood--so
here's to the health of the boy who fell down to our friends from the sky."

The doctor had grown serious, there was a certain solemnity about him as he raised his champagne
glass and emptied it: "God bless him! To the health of the child, the son of the house. May
this fortunate lad grow, thrive and prosper."

The finely cut glasses gave a clear and melodious sound as they clinked them. There was a buzzing,
laughter and cheering at the table, so that the little fellow upstairs in his bed began to
toss about restlessly. He murmured impatiently in his sleep, pouted and lowered his brow.

The chairs were moved downstairs. The guests had risen, and, going up to the parents, had shaken
hands with them as though to congratulate them. Dr. Hofmann had done that really very nicely,
really exceedingly well. But the little fellow was awfully sweet. All the women present agreed
they had rarely seen such a pretty child.

Käte's heart had beaten a little anxiously when the doctor commenced to speak--surely he would
not betray what had only been confided to him and the lawyer under the influence of a good
glass of wine and a good dinner?--but it was now full of happiness. Her eyes sought her husband's,
and sent him tender, grateful glances covertly. And then she went to their old friend, the
doctor, and thanked him for all his good, kind words. "Also in Wölfchen's name," she said in
a soft, cordial voice.

"So you are satisfied with me all the same? Well, I'm glad." He drew her arm into his and walked
up and down with her somewhat apart from the others. "I saw, my dear lady, that you grew uneasy
when I began about the boy's antecedents. What kind of an opinion can you have of me? But I
did so intentionally, I have been burning to find an opportunity to say what I did for a long
time. Believe me, if I got a two-shilling bit every time I've been questioned about the boy's
parentage--either openly or in a roundabout way--I should be a well-to-do man by now. I've
often felt annoyed at the questions; what I said just now was the answer to them all. I trust
they have understood it. They can keep their surmises to themselves in the future."

"Surmises?" Käte knit her brows and pressed the doctor's arm. What did those people surmise?--did
they already know something, did they guess about the Venn? She was seized with a sudden terror.
Pictures passed before her mental vision with lightning speed--there in that bright festive
room--dark pictures of which she did not want to know anything more.

"How terrible," she said in a low voice that quivered. If the people got to know anything,
oh, then she did not put her thought into words, for the sudden dread was almost choking her--then
they would not get rid of the past. Then that woman would come and demand her right, and could
not be shaken off any more. "Do you think," she whispered hesitatingly, "do you think they--they
guess--the truth?"

"Oh no, they're very far off the mark," laughed the doctor, but then he grew grave again directly.
"My dear lady, let us leave those people and their surmises alone." Oh dear, now he had meddled
with a delicate subject, he felt quite hot--what if she knew that they thought that her Paul,
that most faithful of husbands, had duties of a special kind towards the child?

"Surmises--oh, what is it they surmise?" She urged him to tell her, whilst her eyes scrutinised
his, full of terror.

"Nonsense," he said curtly. "Why do you want to trouble about that? But I told you and your
husband that at once. If you make such a secret of the boy's parentage, all kinds of interpretations
will be placed on it. Well, you would not hear of anything else."

"No." Käte closed her eyes and gave a slight shudder. "He's our child--our child alone," she
said with a strange hardness in her voice. "And nobody else has anything to do with him."

He shook his head and looked at her questioningly, surprised at her tone.

Then she jerked out: "I'm afraid."

He felt how the hand that was lying on his arm trembled slightly.

Amid the gaiety of the evening something had fallen on Käte's joy that paralysed it, as it
were. Many questions were asked her about little Wolf--that was so natural, they showed her
their friendly interest by means of these questions--and they watched her quietly at the same
time: it was marvellous how she behaved. They had hardly believed the delicate woman capable
of such heroism. How much she must love her husband, that she took his child--for the boy must
be his child, the resemblance was too marked, exactly the same features, the same dark hair--this
child of a weak hour to her heart without showing any ill-will or jealousy. She, the childless
woman, to take another woman's child. That was grand, almost too grand. They did not understand
it quite.

And Käte felt instinctively that there was something concealed behind the questions they asked
her--was it admiration or compassion, approval or disapproval?--something one could not get
hold of, not even name, only suspect. And that embarrassed her. So she only gave reserved answers
to their friendly questions about Wölfchen, was concise in what she told them, cool in her
tone, and still she could not hinder her voice vibrating secretly. That was the tender happiness
she felt, the mother's pride she could not suppress, the warmth of her feelings, which lent
her voice its undertone of emotion. The others took if for quite a different emotion.

The ladies, who took a walk in the garden after the dinner was over, were chatting confidentially
together. The paths that smelt of the pines and in which the coloured lanterns gave a gentle
subdued light were just suitable for that. They wandered about in twos and threes, arm in arm,
and first of all looked carefully to see if there were any listeners, for their hostess must
on no account hear it. There was hardly one among the ladies who had not made her observations.
How well she bore up. It was really pathetic to see how resentment and affection, dislike and
warmth struggled to get the mastery as soon as there was any talk about the child. And how
a restless look would steal into her bright eyes--ah, she must have had and still have much
to contend with, poor thing.

There was only one lady there who said she had known Paul Schlieben much too long and well
not to feel sure that it was ridiculous--nay, even monstrous--to suppose he would do such a
thing. He who was always such a perfect gentleman, not only in his outward behaviour and appearance
but also in his thoughts, he, the most faithful of husbands, who even now, after a long married
life, was as much in love with his wife as though they had just been married. The thing was
quite different. They had always wished for children, what was more natural than that they
should adopt one, now that they had finally given up all hope? Did not other people do the same?

Of course that happened, there was no doubt about it. But then the particulars were always
given as to whether it was an orphan or the illegitimate offspring of some one moving in the
highest circles, whether it had been offered in the newspaper--"to be given away to noble-minded
people"--or whether it was the child of a girl who had been left in the lurch or the unwished-for
child of parents belonging to the labouring classes, who had already been too richly blessed
with children, and so on. Something at least was always known about it. But in this case why
was such a secret made of it? Why did they not say openly: we have got it from there or there,
it happened in such and such a manner?

It was difficult to question Frau Schlieben quite openly about the little one's parentage.
They had already gone to her once with that intention, but as soon as they had introduced the
subject such a terrified expression had come into the woman's eyes, something so shy and reserved
into her manner, that it would have been more than tactless to continue the conversation. They
were compelled to desist from questioning her--but it was peculiar, very peculiar.

And the gentlemen in the smoking-room, whom the host had left alone for a moment, discussed
the same theme. The doctor was catechised.

"I say, doctor, your speech was excellent, worthy of a diplomatist, but you can't deceive us.
You don't know anything about the little chap's antecedents either? Now come!" It especially
puzzled both partners that Schlieben had told them so little. When everything under the sun
was discussed in business, one had also a certain right to know the man's private affairs too,
especially as they had already worked with the old gentleman. Where would Paul have been now,
if they two had not safeguarded his interests so energetically at the time when he put everything
else before business? Herr Meier, who was already elderly and very corpulent, and whose good-natured,
intelligent face bore signs of his fondness for a glass of wine, felt really very hurt at such
a want of confidence: "As though we should have placed any difficulties in the way--absurd!
Doctor, just tell us one thing. Did he get the boy here?"

But the other partner, Herr Bormann, who was somewhat choleric and had to go to Carlsbad every
year, interrupted him sharply. "Well, really, Meier! And what's it to us? They say they have
brought him with them from their last journey, when they were away so long--good. Where were
they last? They went from Switzerland to the Black Forest and then to Spa, didn't they?"

"No, to the North Sea," said the doctor quietly. "You can see it as well, the boy has quite
the Frisian type."

"That boy? With his black eyes?" No, there was nothing to be got out of Hofmann. He looked
so innocent that you might have thought he was speaking seriously instead of joking. Aha, he
had taken his stand; he had made up his mind not to say anything. They would have to let the
subject drop.

The doctor, who had already taxed himself with stupidity in his heart--oh dear, now he had
aroused everybody's curiosity instead of helping the Schliebens--heard the gentlemen pass on
to politics with great relief.

It was midnight before the last guests left the villa. Their bright talk and laughter could
still be heard distinctly from the end of the street in the silence of the night, as husband
and wife met at the foot of the stairs leading up to the first floor.

All the windows of the lower rooms were still open, the silver was still on the table, the
costly china stood about--let the servants put it away for the time being. Käte felt a great
longing to see the child. She had seen so little of him that day--there had been visitors the
whole day. And then what a number of questions she had had to listen to, what a number of answers
she had had to give. Her head was burning.

As she and her husband met--the man was hurrying out of his room, he had not even given himself
time to lock away the cigars--she had to laugh: aha, he wanted to go upstairs too. She hung
on his arm and they went up together keeping step.

"To Wölfchen," she said softly, pressing his arm. And he said, as though excusing himself:
"I shall have to see if the noise has not awakened the boy."

They spoke in an undertone and moved along cautiously like thieves. They stole into the nursery--there
he lay, so quietly. He had thrown off the covering in his sleep so that his naked rosy little
legs were visible, and a warm, strong and wonderfully fresh smell ascended from the child's
clean healthy body and mingled with the powerful odour of the pines, that the night sent into
the room through the slightly open window.

Käte could not restrain herself, she bent down and kissed the little knee that showed dimples
in its firm roundness. As she looked up again, she saw her husband's eyes fixed on the sleeping
child with a thoughtful expression.

She was so used to knowing everything that affected him, that she asked, "What are you thinking
of, Paul? Does anything trouble you?"

He looked at her absently for a few moments and then past her; he was so lost in thought that
he had not heard her question at all. At last he murmured, "I wonder if it would not be better
to be open about it? Hm." Then he shook his head and thoughtfully stroked his beard into a point.

"What are you saying? What do you mean? Paul!" She laid her hand on his.

That aroused him. He smiled at her and said then: "Käte, we must tell people the truth. Why
shouldn't we say where he comes from? Yes, yes, it's much better, otherwise I fear we shall
have a good deal of unpleasantness. And if the boy does find out in good time that he is not
really our child--I mean our own child--what does it matter?"

"Good gracious!" She threw up her hands as though horrified. "No--not for the world--no! Never,
never!" She sank down on the bed, spread both her arms over the child's body as though protecting
it, and nestled her head on the warm little breast. "Then he would be lost to us, Paul."

She took a deep breath and trembled. Her voice expressed such horror, such a terrible fear
and prophetic gravity that it startled the man.

"I only thought--I mean--I have really long felt it to be my duty," he said hesitatingly, as
though making a stand against her fear. "I don't like that the--that people--well, that they
talk. Don't be so funny about it, Käte; why shouldn't we tell?"

"Not tell! You ask why we shouldn't tell? Paul, you know that yourself. If he gets to know
it--oh, that mother! that Venn!"

She clasped the boy even more tightly; but she had raised her head from his breast. Her face
was pale, and her eyes looked quite bewildered as they stared at her husband. "Have you forgotten
her?"

Her tremulous voice grew hard. "No, he must never know it. And I swear it and you must promise
me it as well, promise it sacredly now, here at his bedside whilst he's sleeping peacefully--and
if I should die, not then either, Paul"--her voice grew louder and louder in her excitement,
and its hard tone became almost a scream--"we'll never tell him it. And I won't give him up.
He's my child alone, our child alone."

Then her voice changed. "Wölfchen, my Wölfchen, surely you'll never leave your mother?"

Her tears began to stream now, and whilst she wept she kissed the child so passionately, so
fervently that he awoke. But he did not cry as he generally did when he was disturbed in his sleep.

He smiled and, throwing both his little arms round her neck as she bent down to him, he said,
still heavy with sleep, but yet clearly, plainly, "Mammy."

She gave a cry of rapture, of triumphant joy. "Do you hear it? He says 'Mammy.'"

She laughed and cried at the same time in her excessive joy, and caught hold of her husband's
hand and held it fast. "Paul--daddy--come, give our child a kiss as well."

And the man also bent down. His wife threw her arm round his neck and drew his head still further
down quite close to hers. Then the child laid the one arm round his neck and the other round hers.

They were all three so close to each other in that calm summer night, in which all the stars
were gleaming and the moonbeams building silver bridges from the peaceful heavens down to the
peaceful earth.

CHAPTER VII

Those were days of the purest happiness at the Schliebens'. The villa had been bought now,
some rooms had been built on to it, and another piece of land had been added to the garden
as a play-ground. They could not think of not giving the boy sufficient space to romp about
in. Some sand was brought there, a heap as high as a dune in which to dig. And when he was
big enough to do gymnastics they got him a swing and horizontal and parallel bars.

But still it was not sufficient. He climbed over all the fences round the neighbouring villas,
over all the walls that were protected by barbed wire and pieces of glass.

"A splendid lad," said Dr. Hofmann when he spoke of Wolfgang. When he spoke to him he certainly
said: "What a little ruffian you are! Just you wait till you go to school and they'll soon
teach you to sit still."

Wolf was wild--rather too wild, his mother considered. The boy's high spirits amused her husband:
that was because there was such a large amount of surplus energy in him. But Käte felt somewhat
surprised at so much wildness--no, she was not really surprised, she knew too well where all
that wildness came from; it frightened her.

She did not scold him when he tore his trousers--oh, they could be replaced--but when he came
home with the first hole in his head she became incredibly agitated. She scolded him angrily,
she became unjust. She was quite unable to stop the blood--ugh, how it ran!--she felt as if
she were going to have a fit; she dragged herself into her room with difficulty and remained
sitting silently in a corner, her eyes staring into space.

When her husband reproached her for exaggerating in that manner, she never answered a word.
Then he comforted her: she could feel quite easy now, the thing was of no moment, the hole
was sewn up and the lad as happy as though it had never happened.

But she shuddered nervously and her cheeks were pale. Oh, if Paul knew what she had been thinking
of, was forced to think of the whole time! How strange that the same memory did not obtrude
itself on him. Oh, Michel Solheid had laid bleeding on the Venn--blood had dripped on the ground
to-day as on that day. The little boy had not complained, just as little as his--she fought
against using the word even in her thoughts--as his father, as Michel Solheid had complained.
And still the red blood had gushed out as though it were a spring. How much more natural it
would have been for him to have cried. Did Wolf feel differently from other children?

Käte went through the list of her acquaintances; there was not a single child that would not
have cried if he had got such a wound, and he would not have been considered a coward on that
account. There was no doubt about it, Wölfchen was less sensitive. Not only more insensible
to bodily pain, no--and she thought she had noticed it several times--also more insensible
to emotion. Even in the case of joy. Did not other children show their happiness by clapping
their hands and shouting? Did not they dance round the thing they wanted--the toy, the doll,
the cake--with shouts of delight? He only held out his hand for it in silence.

He took it because he had been told to do so, without all the childish chatter, without the
rapturous delight that makes it so attractive and satisfactory to give children gifts.

"As a peasant," her husband used to say. That cut her to the quick every time he said it. Was
Wölfchen really made of such different material? No, Paul must not say "peasant." Wölfchen
was not stupid, only perhaps a little slow in thinking, and he was shrewd enough. He had not
been born in a large town, that was it; where they lived now was just like the country.

"You peasant!" The next time his father said it--it was said in praise and not to blame him,
because he was pleased the boy kept his little garden so well--Käte flew into a passion. Why?
Her husband did not understand the reason for it. Why should he not be pleased? Had not the
boy put a splendid fence round his garden? He had made a palisade of hazel-sticks into which
he had woven flexible willow-twigs, and then he had covered the whole with pine branches to
make it close. And he had put beans and peas in his garden, which he had begged the cook to
give him; and now he meant to plant potatoes there as well. Had anybody told him how to do
it? No, nobody. The first-rate cook and the housemaid were both from a town, what did they
know about sowing peas and planting potatoes?

"He's a born farmer," said the father laughing.

But the mother turned away as though in pain. She would much, much rather have seen her son's
garden a mass of weeds than that he should plant, weed and water so busily.

She had made him a present of some flowers; but they did not interest him and he was not so
successful with them either. There was only a large sunflower that grew and grew. It was soon
as high as the boy, soon even higher, and he often stood in front of it, his childish face
raised, gazing earnestly into its golden disc for quite a long time.

When the sunflower's golden petals withered--then its seeds ripened instead and were examined
every day and finally gathered--Wolfgang went to school. He was already in his seventh year,
and was big and strong; why should he not learn with other children now?

His mother had thought how wonderful it would be to teach him the rudiments herself, for when
she was a young girl with nothing to do at home and a great wish to continue her studies, she
had gone to a training college and even passed her examination as a teacher with distinction;
but--perhaps that was too long ago, for her strength was not equal to the task. Especially
her patience. He made so little progress, was so exceedingly slow. Was the boy stupid? No,
but dull, very dull. And it often seemed to her as though she were facing a wall when she spoke
to him.

"You are much too eager," said her husband. But how on earth was she to make it clear to him
that that was an "A" and that an "O," and how was she to explain to him that if you put one
and one together it makes two without getting eager? She became excited, she took the ball-frame
and counted the blue and red balls that looked like round beads on a string for the boy. She
got hot and red, almost hoarse, and would have liked to cry with impatience and discouragement,
when Wölfchen sat looking at her with his large eyes without showing any interest, and still
did not know that one bead and one bead more make two beads after they had worked at it for hours.

She saw to her sorrow that she would have to give up the lessons. "He'll do better with a master,"
said her husband, consolingly. And it was better, although it could not exactly be termed "good."

Wolfgang was not lazy, but his thoughts were always wandering. Learning did not interest him.
He had other things to think about: would the last leaves in the garden have fallen when he
got home from school at noon? And would the starling, for whom he had nailed the little box
high up in the pine-tree, come again next spring? It had picked off all the black berries from
the elderberry, and had then gone away screaming; if it did not find any more elderberries,
what would it eat then? And the boy's heart was heavy with grief--if only he had given it a
little bag of berries when it went away.

Now the pines in the Grunewald were covered with snow. When Wolfgang had gone to school that
morning, his knapsack on his back, the housemaid at his side, the white layer had crackled
and broken under his boots. It was very cold. And then he had heard a bird's shriek, that sounded
like a hungry croak. The housemaid thought it was an owl--pooh, what did she know about it?
It was a raven, the hungry beggar in the jet-black coat, like the one in the primer.

And the boy was thinking of it now as he sat on the bench, staring with big eyes at the blackboard,
on which the teacher was writing words they were to find out. How nice it must be under the
pines now. There flew the raven; brushing the snow off the branches with its black wings, so
that it looked like powder as it fell. Where was he going to fly to? His thoughts flew far,
far away after the raven, as they had done after the starling. The boy's eyes shone, his chest
rose with the deep breath he drew--at that moment the teacher called to him.

"Wolfgang, are you asleep with your eyes open? What's this?" The boy gave a start, got red,
then pale and knew nothing.

The other boys almost died of laughing--"Are you asleep with your eyes open?"--that had been
too funny.

The teacher did not punish him, but Wolfgang crept home as though he had been punished. He
had hidden from the housemaid, who always came to fetch him--no, he would not go with her to-day.
He had also run away from his comrades--let them fight without him today, to-morrow he would
throw all the more snowballs at them.

He walked quite alone, turned off from the street and wandered about aimlessly among the pines.
He looked for the raven, but it was far away, and so he began to run too, run as quickly as
he could, and tore the knapsack off his back with a loud cry, hurling it far from him up into
the broad branches of a pine, so that it hung there and nothing but snow fell down silently
in large lumps. That amused him. He filled both his hands with snow, made hard balls of it
and began to regularly bombard the pine that kept his knapsack a prisoner. But it did not give
it up, and when he had grown hot and red and tired but very much cheered, he had to go home
without his knapsack.

The housemaid had been back a long time when he arrived. She opened the door for him with a
red face--she had run so hard after him--and an angry look. "Hm," she said irritably, "you've
been kept, I suppose?"

He pushed her aside. "Hold your tongue!" He could not bear her at that moment, when coming
in from outside where everything had been so quiet, so free.

His parents were already at table. His father frowned as he looked at him, his mother asked
in a voice of gentle reproach in which there was also a little anxiety: "Where have you been
so long? Lisbeth has been looking for you everywhere."

"Well?" His father's voice sounded severe.

The boy did not give any answer, it seemed to him all at once as though his tongue were paralysed.
What should he tell those people sitting indoors about what he had been doing outside?

"He's sure to have been kept at school, ma'am," whispered the housemaid when she handed the
meat. "I'll find it out from the other boys to-morrow, and tell you about it, ma'am."

"Oh, you!" The boy jumped up; although she had whispered it in a low voice, he had heard it
all the same. His chair fell down behind him with a crash, and rushing up to the girl with
clenched fist he seized hold of her so roughly that she gave a shrill scream and let the dish
fall out of her hand.

"You goose, you goose!" he howled in a loud voice, and wanted to strike her. His father only
pulled him away with difficulty.

"Wölfchen!" Käte's fork had fallen out of her hand with a clatter, and she was staring at her
boy with dilated eyes.

The maid complained bitterly. He was always like that, he was unbearable, he had said before
to her: "Hold your tongue!" No, she could not put up with it, she would rather leave. And she
ran out of the room crying.

Paul Schlieben was extremely angry. "You are to be civil to inferiors. You are to be polite
to them, just because they have to serve. Do you hear?" And he seized hold of the boy with
a strong hand, laid him across his knees and gave him the whipping he so well deserved.

Wolfgang ground his teeth together and bore the punishment without uttering a sound and without
a tear.

But every stroke fell on his mother's heart. She felt as if she herself had been beaten and
severely bruised. When her husband took his usual rest after the stormy dinner, smoked, read
the paper and took a little nap between whiles, she crept up to the nursery in which the boy
had been locked. Was he crying?

She turned the key softly--he was kneeling on the chair near the window, his nose pressed flat
against the pane, looking attentively out at the snow. He did not notice her at all. Then she
went away again cautiously. She went downstairs again, but her mind was not sufficiently at
rest to read in her room; she crept about the house softly as though she had no peace. Then
she heard Lisbeth say to the cook in the kitchen between the rattling of plates: "I shall certainly
not put up with it. Not from such a rude boy. What has he got to do here?"

Käte stood rigid, overcome by a terror that paralysed her: what did she know? She became glowing
hot and then icy cold. "Not from such a rude boy--what has he got to do here?" oh, God, was
that the way she spoke about him?

She ran up to the nursery; Wölfchen was still kneeling at the window.

No other villa obstructed the view there as yet; from the window one looked out on a large
piece of waste ground, where dandelions and nettles grew in the sand between hedge mustard
in the summer time, but where the snow lay now, deep and clean, untouched by any footstep.
The short winter evening was already drawing to a close, that white field was the only thing
that still glittered, and it seemed to the mother that the child's face was very wan in the
pale light of the luminous snow.

"Wölfchen," she called softly. And then "Wölfchen, how could you say 'goose' and 'hold your
tongue' to Lisbeth? Oh, for shame! Where did you get those words from?" Her voice was gentle
and sad as she questioned him.

Then he turned round to her, and she saw how his eyes burned. Something flickered in them,
that looked like a terrified, restless longing.

She noticed that as well, and quite against all rules of pedagogy she opened her arms and whispered--after
it had escaped from her lips she did not know herself why she had said it, for he had everything,
everything his heart desired--"You poor child!"

And he ran into her arms.

They held each other tightly, heart beating against heart. They were both sad, but neither
of them knew the reason why, nor why the other one was sad.

"It's not the whipping," he murmured.

She stroked his straight hair away from his forehead with her soft hand; she did not ask him
any more questions. For--did not something rise out of that field covered with snow, hover
outside the window and lay its finger on its lips: "Be quiet, do not ask, do not touch it"?

But she remained with the boy and played with him; she felt as though she ought not to leave
him alone to-day. Yes, she must pay still more attention to him in the future. All at once
the thought fell on her heart like a heavy weight: she had already left him much too much to
himself. But then she consoled herself again: he was still so young, his mind was still a piece
of quite soft wax, which she could mould as she liked. He must never again be allowed to stand
at the window staring out at that desolate field with such burning eyes. What was he longing
for? Was not a wealth of love showered on him? And everything else that delights a child's heart?

She looked round his pretty room. Such a quantity of toys were piled up in it, trains and steamers,
tin soldiers and picture books and all the newest games.

"Come, we'll play," she said.

He was quite ready to do so; she was surprised how quickly he had forgotten his sorrow. Thank
God, he was still quite an innocent, unsuspecting child. But how restlessly he threw the toys
about. "That's stupid," and "that's tiresome"--nothing really absorbed his attention. She soon
felt quite exhausted with all her proposals and her endeavours to induce him to play this or
that game. She did not think she had been so difficult to satisfy as a child. She had wanted
to get up and go away half a dozen times already--no, she really could not stand it any longer,
she had a frantic headache, it had got on her nerves, it was certainly much easier to stand
at the fire and cook or do housework than play with a child--but her sense of duty and her
love kept her back every time.

She must not leave him alone, for--she felt it with a gloomy dread--for then somebody else
would come and take him away from her.

She remained sitting with him, pale and exhausted; he had tormented her a great deal. At last
he found a woolly sheep that had been quite forgotten in the corner of the toy cupboard, a
dilapidated old toy from his childhood with only three legs left. And he amused himself with
that; that pleased him more than the other costly toys. He sat on the carpet as though he were
quite a little child, held the sheep between his knees and stroked it.

When he lay in bed at last, she still sat beside him holding his hand.

She sang it more and more softly. At last she thought he had fallen asleep, but then he tore
his hand away impatiently: "Stop that song! I'm not a baby any longer!"

            *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *

It was fortunate that there were no street boys in the Grunewald colony, as Wölfchen would
assuredly have played with them; as it was, his playfellows were only a hall-porter's children.
There was certainly no want of nicer children to play with; school-fellows whose parents lived
in similar villas to theirs used to invite him; and the families in Berlin, with whom the Schliebens
were on friendly terms and who were pleased when their children could get out to the Grunewald
on their holidays, often asked him to come and see them too.

All children liked to come to the shady garden, where Auntie Käte was always so kind to them.
There was always plenty of cakes and fruit and hoops and balls and croquet and tennis, ninepins
and gymnastic appliances. On sunny afternoons gay laughter and shrieks used to ascend high
up into the green tops of the pines, but--Käte noticed it with surprise--her boy, who was generally
so wild, was the quietest of them all on those occasions. He did not care for those visits.
He did not care for those well-behaved boys in white and blue sailor-suits, with their fresh
faces showing above their dazzling collars; he never felt really at home with them. He would
have preferred to have run away to a place far away from there, where nobody else went except
now and then a beggar with a large bag, who would turn over every bit of paper with his wire
hook to see whether something of value had not been left there the Sunday before. He would
have liked to help that man. Or fill the large bag with pine-cones.

But still Wolfgang had some friends. There was Hans Flebbe--his father was coachman at the
banker's, who owned the splendid villa on the other side of the road and lived in Bellevuestrasse
in Berlin in the winter--and there were also Artur and Frida. But their father was only porter
in a villa that was let out to different families.

As soon as these three came home from school, they would stand outside the Schliebens' villa.
They could not be driven away, they would wait there patiently until Wolfgang joined them.

"He's like a brother to my Hans," the coachman used to say, and he would greet him with a specially
condescending flick of his whip from his high seat. And the porter and his wife used to state
with much satisfaction: "Yes, old Schlieben always touches his hat, and she, his lady, also
says 'how do you do?' to us in a very friendly style, but the little one, oh, he's quite different."

Those were wild games the four comrades played together, and in which Frida was reckoned to
be quite a boy: catch, hide and seek, but best of all, robbers and policemen. How Wolf's eyes
sparkled when he, as the robber captain, gave the policeman, Hans Flebbe, a kick in the stomach,
so that he fell backwards on the ground and lay for a time without moving from pain.

"I've shot him," he said to his mother proudly.

Käte, who had been called to the window by the noisy shrieks of the children who were rushing
about wildly in the waste field behind the villa, had beckoned to her boy to come in. He had
come unwillingly; but he had come. Now he stood breathless before her, and she stroked the
damp hair away from the face that was wet with perspiration: "What a sight you look! And here--look."

She pointed reproachfully to his white blouse that was covered with dirt. Where in all the
world had he made himself so filthy? there were no real pools there. And his trousers. The
right leg was slit open the whole way down, the left one had a three-cornered hole in the knee.

Pooh, that was nothing. He wanted to rush away again, he was trembling with impatience; his
playfellows were crouching behind the bush, they dared not come out before he, their captain,
came back to them. He strove against the hand that was holding him; but his struggles were
of no avail that time, his father came out of the next room.

"You are to stop here. You ought to feel ashamed of yourself to resist your mother like that.
Off with you, go to your room and prepare your lessons for tomorrow."

Paul Schlieben spoke sharply. It had made him angry to see how the boy had striven with hands
and feet against his delicate wife.

"You rude boy, I'll teach you how to behave to your mother. Here"--he seized hold of him by
the scruff of his neck and dragged him up to her--"here, beg her pardon. Kiss your good mother's
hand. And promise not to be so wild again, not to behave like a street-boy. Be quick--well,
are you soon going to do it?"

The veins on the man's forehead began to swell with anger. What a stubborn fellow he was. There
he stood, his blouse torn open at front so that you could see the rapid rise and fall of his
chest that was wet with perspiration--he was not breathing quietly even now, he was still panting
from the rough game--and looking so wild, so turbulent, not at all like the child of nice parents.
This could not go on any longer.

"You must not tear about like that any more, do you hear?" said his father severely. "I forbid
it. Play other games. You have your garden, your gymnastic appliances and a hundred things
others would envy you. And now come here, beg your mother's pardon."

The boy went to his mother. She met him half way, she held out her hand to him already. He
kissed it, he mumbled also, "I won't do it again," but the man did not hear any repentance
in his voice. There was something in the sullen way he said it that irritated him. And he lost
control of himself a little.

"That wasn't an apology. Ask your mother's pardon again--and distinctly."

The boy repeated it.

"And now promise that you will not rush about like that again. 'Dear mother, I promise'--well?"

Not a word, no promise.

"What's the meaning of this?" The man shook the boy, beside himself with anger. But the boy
pressed his lips together. He gave his father an upward look out of his dark eyes.

The woman caught the look--oh, God, that was the look!--that look--the woman's look!

She put both her arms round the boy protectingly: "Don't, don't irritate him." She drew him
nearer to her and covered his eyes with her hands, so that he had to close them, and then she
cast an imploring glance at her husband: "Go, do go."

Paul Schlieben went, but he shook his head angrily.

"You'll see what your training will make of the boy." He raised his hand menacingly once more:
"Boy, I tell you, you'll have to obey." And then he closed the door behind him--he could not
even have his midday rest undisturbed now.

He heard his wife's voice in the next room. It sounded so gentle and trembled as though with
a secret dread. "Wölfchen, Wölfchen, aren't you my good boy?"

No answer. Good heavens, had the unfeeling scamp no answer to give to that question uttered
in that tone?

Then again the soft trembling voice: "Won't you be my good boy?"

If the boy did not answer now, then--! The blood surged to his head as he listened against
his will, his fingers twitched, he wanted to jump up and rush in again and--ah, he must have
answered now. It was probably nothing but a silent nod, but Käte's voice sounded intensely
happy: "There you see, I knew you were my good boy, my darling child, my--my----"

Hm, it was certainly not necessary for Käte to lavish such endearing tones on the boy, after
he had just been so naughty. And she must have kissed him, put her arms round him. Her voice
had died away in a tender breath.

Paul Schlieben did not hear anything more now; neither the rustling of her dress nor any other
sound--ah, she was probably whispering to him now. How she spoiled the scamp.

But now--somebody was weeping softly. Was that Wolf's hard, defiant voice? Yes, he was actually
crying loudly now, and between his sobs he jerked out pitifully--you could hardly understand
what he was saying: "I had to--to shoot him--he's the policeman, you know."

And now everything was quiet again. The man took up his paper once more, which he had thrown
aside before, and commenced to read. But he could not fix his attention on it, his thoughts
wandered obstinately again and again to the next room. Had the scamp come to his senses now?
Did he see that he had been naughty? And was not Käte much too weak? There was nothing to be
heard, nothing whatever. But still--was not that the door that creaked? No, imagination. Everything
was quiet.

After waiting a little longer he went into the next room. It was indeed very quiet there, for
Käte was quite alone. She was sitting at the window, her hands in her lap, pondering. Her thoughts
seemed to be far away.

"Where's the boy?"

She gave a terrified start, and thrust both hands forward as though to ward off something.

He saw now that she was pale. The vexation she had had on account of the child had probably
shaken her a good deal--just let him wait until he got hold of him, he should do twice as many
sums to-day as a punishment.

"Is the boy at his lessons?"

She shook her head and got red. "No."

"No? Why not?" He looked at her in amazement. "Didn't I tell him that he was to go to his lessons
at once?"

"You said so. But I told him to run away. Paul, don't be angry." She saw that he was about
to fly into a passion, and laid her hand on his arm soothingly. "If you love me, leave him.
Oh Paul, believe me, do believe me when I say he can't help it, he must run about, rush about,
be out of doors--he must."

"You always have some excuse. Just think of the story of the knapsack when first he went to
school--the rascal had thrown it up into a pine-tree. If a labourer had not found it by accident
and brought it to us, because he read our name on the primer, we might have looked for it for
a long time. You excused that--well, that was nothing very bad--a fit of wantonness--but now
you are excusing something quite different; and everything." The man, who generally yielded
to his wife in all points, grew angry in his grave anxiety. "I implore you, Käte, don't be
so incredibly weak with the boy. Where will it lead to?"

"It will lead him to you and me." She pointed gravely to him and herself. And then she laid
her hand on her heart with an expression of deep emotion.

"What do you mean? I don't understand you. Please express yourself a little more clearly, I'm
not in a humour to guess riddles."

"If you can't guess it, you'll not understand it either if I say it more clearly." She bent
her head and then went back to her former seat. But she was not lost in thought any longer,
it seemed to him as if she were leaning forward to catch the shrill shouts of triumph that
rose high above the roof from the waste field at the back of the house.

"You'll never be able to manage the boy."

"Oh yes, I shall."

"Of course you will, if you let him do exactly what he likes." The man strode quickly out of
the room; his anger was getting the mastery of him.

Paul Schlieben was seriously angry with his wife, perhaps for the first time in their married
life. How could Käte be so unreasonable? take so little notice of his orders, as though he
had never given them--nay, even act in direct opposition to him? Oh, the rascal was cunning
enough, he drew his conclusions from it already. And if he did not do so as yet, still he felt
instinctively what a support he had in his mother. It was simply incredible how weak Käte was.

His wife's soft sensitive nature, which had attracted him to her in the first instance and
which had had the same charm for him all the years they had been married, now seemed exaggerated
all at once--childish. Yes, this timorousness, this everlasting dread of what was over and
done with was childish. They had not heard anything more about the boy's mother, why then conjure
up her shade on all occasions? They had the boy's birth and baptismal certificates safely in
their hands, and the Venn was far away--he would never see it--why then this constant, tremulous
anxiety? There was no reason whatever for it. They lived in such pleasant surroundings, their
financial position was so sound, Wolf possessed everything that fills and gladdens a child's
heart, that it was real madness for Käte to suppose that he had a kind of longing for his home.
How in the world should he have got that longing? He had no idea that this was not really his
home. It was sad that Käte was so hypersensitive. She could positively make others nervous as well.

And the man passed his hand over his forehead, as though to drive disagreeable thoughts away
with a movement of his hand. He lighted a cigar. It was an extra fine one to-day, those he
generally left for his guests; he had the feeling that he must have something to help him over
an unpleasant hour. For the thing was unpleasant, really unpleasant and difficult, even if
he hoped in time to solve the question of how to train such a child satisfactorily. At any
rate not as Käte was doing. That was clear to him already.

Paul Schlieben sat in the corner of the sofa in his study, blowing blue rings of smoke into
the air. His brows were still knit. He had come home very tired from the office that day, where
there had been all sorts of complications--quite enough annoyance--he had had to dictate some
hurried letters, had not allowed himself a moment's repose, and had hoped to have a pleasant
rest at home--but in vain. Strange how one child can alter the whole household, one's whole
life. If the boy had not been there?... Ah, then he would have had a short peaceful nap by
now, stretched out on the divan with the newspaper in front of his face, and would be going
across to Käte's room for a cosy chat and a cup of coffee, which she prepared herself so gracefully
on the humming Viennese coffee-machine. He had always liked to sit and watch her slender, well-cared-for
hands move about so noiselessly. It was a pity.

He sighed. But then he conquered the feeling: no, one ought not to wish he were away because
of a momentary annoyance. How many happy hours little Wölfchen had given them. It had been
charming to watch his first steps, to listen to his first connected words. And had not Käte
been very happy to have him--oh, who said been happy?--she was still so. Nothing could be compared
to the boy. And that the hours of cloudless happiness they had had through him were not so
numerous now as formerly was quite natural. He was not the same little boy any longer, who
had taken his first bold run from that corner over there to this sofa, and had clung to his
father's legs rejoicing at his own daring; that was all. He was now beginning to be an independent
person, a person with wishes of his own, no longer with those that had been inculcated; he
showed a will of his very own. Now he wanted this and now he wanted that, and no longer what
his teachers wanted. But was not that natural? On the whole, when a child begins to go to school,
what a great many changes take place. One would have to make allowances, even if one did not
wish to have one's whole way of living influenced by it first the parents, then the child.

The man felt how he gradually became calmer. A boy--what a compound of wildness, roughness,
unrestraint, ay, unmannerliness is included in that word! And all, all who were now men had
once been boys.

His cigar went out; he had forgotten to smoke it. The man thought of his own boyhood with a
strangely gentle feeling not entirely free from a faint longing. Let him only be honest: had
he not also rushed about and made a terrible noise, dirtied himself, got hot and torn his trousers
and been up to pranks, more than enough pranks?

Strange how he all at once remembered some of the severe lectures he had had given him and
the tears he had forced from his mother's eyes; he also very clearly remembered the whipping
he had once got for telling a lie. His father had said at the time--all at once he seemed to
hear his voice, which had generally sounded anything but solemn, in fact very commonplace,
but which had then been ennobled by the gravity of the situation, echo in the room: "Boy, I
can forgive you everything else except lies." Ah, it had been very uncomfortable that day in
the small office, where his father had leant against the high wooden desk holding the stick
behind his back. He had pushed the little cap he wore on account of his baldness to one side
in his agitation, his friendly blue eyes had looked at him penetratingly, and at the same time
sadly.

"One can forgive everything except lies"--well, had the boy, had Wolfgang told a lie? Certainly
not. He had only been naughty, as the best children are now and then.

The man felt ashamed of himself: and he, he had been so displeased with the boy simply because
he had been naughty?

He got up from the sofa, threw the remains of his cigar into the ash-tray and went out to look
for Wolfgang.

He came across the four in the height of the game. They had lighted a small fire on the waste
piece of ground close behind the garden railing, so that the overhanging bushes in the garden
formed a kind of roof over them.

They were crouching close together; they were in camp now. Frida had some potatoes in her pinafore,
which were to be roasted in the ashes; but the fire would not burn, the twigs only smouldered.
Wolfgang lay on his stomach on the ground, resting on his elbows, and was blowing with all
the strength of his lungs. But it was not enough, the fire would not burn on any account.

Paul Schlieben had come up softly, the children had not noticed him at all in their eagerness.
"Won't it burn?" he asked.

Wolfgang jerked himself up, and was on his feet in a moment. He had been red and fresh-looking,
but now he grew pale, his frank look fell timidly, a miserable expression lengthened his round,
childish face and made him look older.

"Have I to go in?" It sounded pitiful.

The man pretended not to hear the question; he had really intended fetching him in, but all
at once he hesitated to say so. It was hard for the boy to have to go away now before the fire
burnt, before the potatoes were roasted. So he said nothing, but stooped down, and as he was
not far enough down even then he knelt down and blew the fire, that was faintly crackling,
with all the breath he had in his broad chest. Sparks began to leap out at once, and a small
flame shot up and soon turned into a big one.

There was a shout of glee. Frida hopped about in the circle, her plaits flying: "It's burning,
it's burning!" Artur and Hans chimed in too; they also hopped from the one foot to the other,
clapped their dirty hands and shouted loudly: "It's burning, it's burning!"

"Be quiet, children." The man was amused at their happiness. "Bring me some twigs, but very
dry ones," he ordered, full of eagerness, too, to keep alive this still uncertain flame, that
now disappeared, now flared up again. He blew and poked and added more twigs. The wind drove
the smoke into his face so that he had to cough, but he wiped his eyes, that were full of tears,
and did not mind that his trousers got wet green spots from kneeling on the ground, and that
chance passers-by would be greatly surprised to see Herr Paul Schlieben occupied in that manner.
He, too, found it fun now to keep up a fire for roasting potatoes under the pale, blue autumn
sky, in which the white clouds were scudding along and the twittering swallows flying. He had
never known such a thing--he had always lived in a town--but it was splendid, really splendid.

The children brought twigs. Wolfgang took them and broke them across his knee--crack!--the
sticks broke like glass. What a knack the boy had at it.

The flames flared up, the little fire emitted an agreeable warmth; one could warm one's hands
at it--ah, that was really very nice.

And then the man followed the smoke, which the wind raised from the field like a light cloud,
with his eyes. It seemed grey at first, but the higher it flew the lighter it became, and the
friendly sunshine shone through it, transforming it. It floated upwards, ever upwards, ever
more immaterial, more intangible, until it flew away entirely--a puff, a whiff.

Now it was about time to bury the potatoes; Wolfgang busied himself with it. They had not poked
the fire any more, the flame had sunk down, but the ashes hid all the heat. The children stood
round with wide-open eyes, quite quiet, almost holding their breath and yet trembling with
expectation: when would the first potatoes be done? Oh, did they not smell nice already? They
distended their nostrils so as to smell them. But Paul Schlieben brushed his trousers now and
prepared to go away--it would take too long before the potatoes were ready. He felt something
that resembled regret. But it really would not do for him to stand about any longer; what would
people think of him?

He was himself again now. "That's enough now," he said, and he went away, carefully avoiding
the impracticable parts of the field where the puddles were. Then he heard steps close behind
him. He turned round. "Wolf? Well, what do you want?"

The boy looked at him sadly out of his dark eyes.

"Are you going home too?" There was astonishment in the man's question--he had not said that
the boy was to go with him.

The pines emitted a splendid smell, you could breathe the air so freely, so easily, and that
pale blue sky with the fleecy white clouds had something wonderfully clear about it, something
that filled the eyes with light. White threads floated over the countryside, driven from the
clean east, and hung fast to the green branches of the pines, shimmering there like a fairy
web. And the sun was still agreeably warm without burning, and an invigorating pungent odour
streamed from the golden-coloured leaves of the bushes that enclosed the gardens at the back.

The man drew a deep breath; he felt as if he had suddenly grown ten, twenty--no, thirty years
younger. Even more.

"Well, run along," he said.

The boy looked at him as if he had not quite understood him.

"Run," he said once more curtly, smiling at the same time.

Then the boy gave a shout, such a shrill, triumphant shout that his playfellows, who were crouching
round the potato fire, joined in immediately without knowing why.

There was a gleam in the dark eyes of the boy, who loved freedom, the free air and to run about
free. He did not say his father had made him happy, but he drew a deep breath as if a load
had fallen off his chest. And the man noticed something in his face, that was now commencing
to grow coarser, to lose the soft contours of childhood and get the sharp ones of youth, that
made it refined and beautiful.

Wolfgang flew back across the field as quick as lightning, as if shot from a tightly strung bow.

The man went back into his garden. He opened the gate cautiously so that it should not creak,
and closed it again just as quietly--Käte need not know where he had been. But she was already
standing at the window.

There was something touchingly helpless in her attitude, such an anxious scrutiny in her eyes--no,
she need not look at him like that, he was not angry with her.

And he nodded to her.

When the housemaid asked whether the master did not know where the young gentleman was--she
had had the milk warmed three times already for him and had run up and downstairs with it--he
said in a low voice with an excuse in the tone: "Oh, that does not matter, Lisbeth. Warm it
for a fourth time later on. It is so healthy for him to be out of doors."

BOOK II

CHAPTER VIII

It was Frida Lämke's birthday. "If you may come we are to have buns with raisins in, but if
you mayn't there'll only be rolls like we have every day," she said to her friend Wolfgang.
"Mind you get them to let you come." It was of most importance to her that Wolfgang came; no
differences were made on account of Flebbe, although he always said he was going to marry her.

And Wolfgang teased his mother. "Let me go--why not? I should like to so much--why mayn't I?"

Yes, why not? He had kept dinning this "why not?" into her ears for the last twenty-four hours;
it had quite worn her out. What should she say to him? that she disliked Frida? But what had
the girl done that she had taken a dislike to her? Nothing. She always curtseyed politely,
was always tidily dressed, had even plaited the blue ribbon into her fair hair with a certain
taste. The parents were also quite respectable people, and still--these children always hung
about the streets, always, both summer and winter. You could pass their house whenever you
liked, those Lämkes were always outside their door. Was it the life of the streets this snub-nosed
girl, who was very developed for her age, reminded her of? No, he must not go to those people's
house, go down into the atmosphere of the porter's room.

"I don't wish you to go there," she said. She had not the heart to say: "I won't allow it,"
when he looked at her with those beseeching eyes.

And the boy saw his advantage. He felt distinctly: she is struggling with herself; and he followed
it up with cruel pertinacity.

"Let me--oh, do let me. I shall be so sorry if I can't. Then I shan't care to do anything.
Why mayn't I? Mammy, I'll love you so, if you'll only let me go. Do let me--will you? But I will."

She could not escape from him any more, he followed her wherever she went, he took hold of
her dress, and even if she forbade him to ask her any more, she felt that he only thought of
the one thing the whole time. So he forced her in that way.

Paul Schlieben was not so averse to his accepting the invitation from the Lämkes. "Why not?
They're quite respectable people. It won't harm the boy to cast a glance at those circles for
once in a way. I also went to our hall-porter's home as a boy. And why not?"

She wanted to say: "But that was something quite different, there was no danger in your case"--but
then she thought better of it and said nothing. She did not want to bring him her fears, her
doubts, her secret gnawing dread so soon again, as there was no manifest reason for them, and
they could not be explained as every other feeling can be after all. Something like a depressing
mist always hung over her. But why should she tell him so? She neither wanted to be scolded
nor laughed at for it; she would resent both. He was not the same man he used to be. Oh--she
felt it with a slight bitterness--how he used to understand her. He had shared every emotion
with her, every vibration of her soul. But he had not the gift of understanding her thoughts
now--or did she perhaps not understand him any longer?

But he was still her dear husband, her good, faithful husband whom she loved more than anyone
else in the world--no, whom she loved as she loved Wölfchen. The child, oh, the child was the
sun round which her life revolved.

If Paul only had been as he was formerly. She had to cast a covert glance at him very frequently
now, and, with a certain surprise, also grow accustomed to his outward appearance. Not that
his broadening-out did not suit him; the slight stoutness his slender figure with its formerly
somewhat stiff but always perfect carriage had assumed suited his years, and the silver threads
that commenced to gleam in his beard and at his temples. It suited also the comfortable velvet
coat he always put on as soon as he came home, suited his whole manner of being. Strange that
anybody could become such a practical person, to whom everything relating to business had formerly
been such a burden, nay, even most repugnant. He would not have picked up the strange child
from the Venn now, and--Käte gave her husband a long look--he would not have taken it home
with him now as a gift from fairyland.

Had the years also changed her in the same manner? Her looking-glass did not show her any very
great change. There was still the same girlish figure, which seemed twice as slender beside
her husband's stoutness. Her hair was still fair, and she still blushed like a young girl to
whom a stray look is enough to make the blood, that flows so easily, invade her delicate cheeks.
Yes, she had still remained young outwardly. But her mind was often weary. Wolf caused her
too much anxiety. A mother, who was ten, fifteen years younger than she, would not perhaps
feel how every nerve becomes strained when dealing with such a child as she did. Would not
such a mother often have laughed when she felt ready to cry?

Oh, what a boisterous, inexhaustible vital power there was in that boy! She was amazed, bewildered,
exhausted by it. Was he never tired? Always on his legs, out of bed at six, always out, out.
She heard him tossing about restlessly at daybreak. He slept in the next room to theirs, and
the door between the rooms always stood open, although her husband scolded her for it. The
boy was big enough, did not want supervising. They need not have that disturbance at night,
at any rate.

But she wanted to watch over his sleep too; she must do so. She often heard him talk in his
dreams, draw his breath so heavily, as though something were distressing him. Then she would
slip out of bed, softly, softly, so that her husband should not hear her; she did not light
any candle, she groped her way into the other room on bare feet. And then she would stand at
his bedside. He still had the pretty railed cot from his first boyhood--but how long would
it be before it was too small? How quickly he was growing, how terribly quickly. She passed
her hand cautiously and lightly over the cover, and felt the boy's long body underneath it.
Then he began to toss about, groan, stiffen himself like one who is struggling with something.
What could be the matter with him? Then he spoke indistinctly. Of what was he dreaming so vividly?
He was wet through with perspiration.

If only she could see him. But she dared not light a candle. What should she say to her husband
if he, awakened by the light, asked her what she was doing there? And Wölfchen would also wake
and ask her what she wanted.

Yes, what did she really want? She had no answer ready even for herself. She would only have
liked to know what was occupying his mind in his dream to such an extent that he sighed and
struggled. Of what was he dreaming? Of whom? Where was he in his dream?

She trembled as she stood at his bedside on her bare feet listening. And then she bent over
him so closely that his breath, uneven and hot, blew into her face, and she breathed on him
again--did not they mingle their breath in that manner? Was she not giving him breath of her
breath in that manner?--and whispered softly and yet so earnestly, imploringly and at the same
time urgently: "Your mother is here, your mother is near you."

But he threw himself over to the other side with a jerk, turned his back on her and mumbled
something. Nothing but incomprehensible words, rarely anything that was distinct, but even
that was enough; she felt he was not there, not with her, that he was far away. Did his soul
seek the home he did not know in his dreams? that he could not even know about, and that still
had such a powerful influence that it drew him there even unconsciously?

Käte stood at Wolfgang's bedside tortured by such an anxiety as she had never felt before:
a mother and still not mother. Alas, she was only a strange woman at the bedside of a strange
child.

She crept back to her bed and buried her throbbing brows deep in the pillows. She felt her
heart beat tumultuously, and she scolded herself for allowing her thoughts to dwell on such
unavailing things. She did not change anything by it, it only made her weary and sad.

When Käte rose after such a night she felt her husband's eyes resting on her anxiously, and
her hands trembled as she coiled up her thick hair. It was fortunate that she dropped a hair-pin,
then she could stoop quickly and withdraw her tired face with the dark lines under the eyes
from his scrutinising glance.

"I'm not at all satisfied with my wife's health again," Paul Schlieben complained to the doctor.
"She's in a terribly nervous state again."

"Really?" Dr. Hofmann's friendly face became energetic. "I'll tell you one thing, my dear friend,
you must take vigorous measures against it at once."

"That's no use." The man shook his head. "I know my wife. It's the boy's doing, that confounded
boy!"

And he took Wolfgang in hand. "Now listen, you must not always be worrying your mother like
that. If I notice once more that she is grieving about you because you are naughty, you shall
see what I'll do to you."

Did he worry his mother? Wolfgang looked very blank. And surely it was not naughty of him to
want to go to the Lämkes? It worried him to have to sit indoors, whilst the wind was whistling
outside and playing about with one's hair in such a jolly manner. And it worried him, too,
that he was not going to the Lämkes that day.

"Well then, go," said Käte. She even drove into Berlin before dinner and bought a doll, a pretty
doll with fair locks, eyes that opened and shut, and a pink dress. "Take it to Frida for her
birthday when you go," she said in the afternoon, putting it into the boy's hands. "Stop! Be
careful!"

He had seized hold of it impetuously, he was so delighted to be able to bring Frida something.
And in a rare fit of emotion--he was no friend of caresses--he put up his face in an outburst
of gratitude and let his mother kiss him. He did not want her kiss, but he submitted to it,
she felt that very well, but still she was glad, and she followed him with her eyes with a
smile that lighted up her whole face.

"But you must be home again before dark," she called out to him at the last moment. Had he
heard her?

How he ran off, as light-footed as a stag. She had never seen any child run so quickly. He
threw up his straight legs that his heels touched his thighs every time. The wind blew his
broad-brimmed sailor hat back, then he tore it off and ran on bareheaded, he was in such a hurry.

What was it that drew him so powerfully to those people?

The smile disappeared from Käte's face; she left the window.

Wolfgang was happy. He was sitting with the Lämkes, in the room in which they also did the
cooking when the weather was cold. The parents' bed was divided off by means of a curtain,
Frida slept on the sofa, and Artur in the little room next to it in which were also kept the
shovels and brooms which Lämke used for cleaning the house and street.

It was not winter yet, still pleasant autumn, but the room was already warm and cosy. The stronger
smell of the coffee, which Frau Lämke was making in the large enamelled pot, mingled with the
delicate fragrance of the pale monthly rose and carnation, myrtle and geranium, which had been
pushed close to the window that was almost level with the ground and were all in flower. At
home Wolfgang never got coffee, but he got some there; and he sipped it as he saw the others
do, only he was even more delighted with it than they. And no fine pastry had ever tasted so
good as did that plain bun, that was more like bread than like a cake. He ate it with his mouth
open, and when Mrs. Lämke pushed a second one to him, the guest of honour, he took it with
radiant eyes.

Frau Lämke felt much flattered at his visit. But she had not made much of the doll; she had
taken it from Frida at once and locked it into the cupboard: "So that you don't smash it at
once. Besides, your father isn't a gentleman that you can play with dolls every day." But later
on when her husband came down from the lodge, in which he sat in his leisure hours mending
boots and shoes, to drink a cup of coffee and eat a bun on Frida's birthday, the doll was fetched
out again and shown him.

"Fine, isn't it? She's got it from Wolfgang's mamma. Just look, Lämke"--the woman lifted the
doll's pink dress up and showed the white petticoat trimmed with a frill edged with narrow
lace--"such trimming. Just like that I sewed round the dress Frida wore at her christening.
She was the first one; bless you, and you think at the time it's something wonderful. Oh dear!"--she
sighed and laid the doll back in the cupboard in which the clean pillowcases and Frida's and
her Sunday hats were together with all kinds of odds and ends--"how time flies. Now she's already
nine."

"Ten," corrected Frida. "I'm ten to-day, mother."

"Right--dear me, are you already ten?" The woman laughed and shook her head, surprised at her
own forgetfulness. And then she nodded to her husband: "Do you still remember, Lämke, when
she was born?"

"If I remember!" he said, pouring another cup out of the inexhaustible coffee-pot. "Those were
nice carryings-on when she was born--none of that again, thanks. The girl gave you a lot of
trouble. And me too; I was terribly afraid. But that's ten years since, old woman--why, it's
almost forgotten."

"And if it had happened a hundred years ago I shouldn't have forgotten it, oh no." The woman
put out her hand as though to ward off something. "I was just going to make myself some coffee
about four o'clock in the afternoon, like to-day, I had got such a longing for it, and then
it started. I just got as far as the passage--do you remember, you were still working in Stiller's
workshop at the time, and we lived in the Alte Jakob, fifth storey to the left?--and I knocked
at Fritze's, the necktie maker's, whose door was opposite ours, and said: 'Oh, please,' I said,
'send your little one as quickly as you can to Frau Wadlern, 10, Spittelmarkt, she knows all
about it'--oh dear, how bad I felt. And I fell down on the nearest chair; they had the greatest
difficulty to get me home again. And now it began, I could not control myself however much
I tried; I believe they heard me scream three houses off. And it lasted, it lasted--evening
came on--you came home--it was midnight--five, six, seven in the morning--then at last at nine
o'clock Frau Wadlern said: 'The child, it'll soon be----'"

"That's enough now, mother," interrupted the man, glancing sideways at the children, who were
sitting very quietly round the table listening, with wide-open, inquisitive eyes. "All that's
over long ago, the girl's here, and has been a credit to you so far."

"She was born at eleven sharp," said Frau Lämke dreamily, nodding her head at the same time
and then drawing a deep breath as if she had climbed a high mountain. And then, overwhelmed
by the pain and pleasure of a memory that was still so extremely vivid after the lapse of ten
years, she called her daughter, her first-born, to come to her on this her tenth birthday.

"Come here, Frida." And she gave her a kiss.

Frida, who was quite abashed at this unexpected caress, giggled as she cast a glance at her
brother Artur and the two other boys, and then ran to the door: "Can we go and play now?"

"Be off with you."

Then they rushed out of the dark cellar, where the Lämkes lived, in high spirits.

It was so light in the street, the sun shone brightly, a fresh wind was blowing and somebody
was flying a kite far away across the field. There were very few people on foot and no carriages.
The road belonged to them, and they rushed to it with a loud hallo. The one who reached the
lamp-post at the corner first was captain.

Wolfgang had never allowed anyone to deprive him of this honour before, but he had to be policeman
to-day, he had been the last. He had followed the others slowly and silently. He had got something
in his head to think about, which made him dull and hindered him from running; he had to think
about it the whole time. He could not get rid of it even when he was in the midst of his favourite
game; the only time he forgot it was when he was having a good scuffle with Hans Flebbe. The
latter had scratched him in the face, and so he tore a handful of his hair out. They gripped
hold of each other near the next garden-gate.

Artur, a feeble little creature, had not taken part in the fight, but he stood with his hands
in his pockets giving advice in a screeching voice to the two who fought in silence.

"Give him it hard, Flebbe. Your fist under his nose--hard."

"On with you, Wolfgang. Settle him. Show him what you can do."

Frida hopped from one leg to the other, laughing, her fair plait dancing on her back. But all
at once her laugh became somewhat forced and anxious: Hans, who was several years older than
Wolfgang, had got him down on the ground and was hammering him in the face with his fist.

"Flebbe, you--!" She pulled his blouse, and as that did not help she nimbly put her foot out.
He stumbled over it, and Wolfgang, quickly taking advantage of it, swung himself up and belaboured
his enemy.

It was no game any longer, no ordinary scuffle between two boys. Wolfgang felt his face burn
like fire, he had a scratch on his cheek that went down to his chin, there were sparks before
his eyes. All that had made him so silent before was forgotten, he felt a wild delight and
gave a loud roar.

"Wolfgang, Wolfgang, no, that's not fair," cried the umpire. "That's no longer fun." Artur
prepared to catch hold of Wolfgang, who was kneeling on his opponent's chest, by his two legs.

A jerk and off he flew. Wolf now turned against him, trembling with rage; his black eyes gleamed.
This was no longer a well-dressed child of better-class parents, this was quite an elementary,
unbridled, unconquered force. He snorted, he panted--at that moment somebody called.

"Wolfgang, Wolfgang."

"Wolfgang," cried Frida warningly, "mother's calling. And your maid is standing near her beckoning."

Frau Lämke's voice was again heard, coming from the door of her house: "Wolfgang, Wolfgang."
And now Lisbeth's sharp tones were also heard: "Well, are you soon coming? You're to come home."

Frau Lämke laughed. "Oh, leave them, they were so happy." But she got a fright all the same
when she saw the boy's dirty clothes, and began to brush them. "My goodness, what a sight your
pretty blouse looks--and the trousers." She turned red, and still redder when she noticed the
fiery scratch on the young gentleman's cheek. "They've made a nice mess of you, the brats.
Just you wait until I get hold of you." She shook her fist at Hans Flebbe and her own children,
but her threat was not meant seriously. Then she said to Lisbeth in an undertone and with a
twitching smile round the corners of her mouth, as she stood there motionless with indignation:
"Wild brats, aren't they? Well, it'll always be like that, we were all like that when we were
young." And, turning to Wolfgang again, she passed her gnarled hand over his fiery scratch:
"That was fine fun, eh, Wolfgang?"

"Yes," he said from the bottom of his heart. And when he saw her looking at him with eyes so
friendly and full of comprehension, a great liking for the woman sprang up in his heart.

It had been a splendid afternoon. But he did not speak of it as he went home with Lisbeth;
she would have been sure to have turned up her nose at it.

"Hm, the mistress is nice and angry," said Lisbeth--she never said anything but "the mistress"
when speaking to the boy. "Why did you stop there such an everlasting time? Didn't you hear
the mistress say you were to come home before it was dark?"

He did not answer. Let her chatter, it was not at all true. He stared past her into the twilight.
But when he came into the room on reaching home, he noticed that his mother had waited for
him. She was certainly not angry, but his evening meal, an egg, a ham sandwich, the milk in
a silver mug, everything neatly prepared, was already there, and she sat opposite his place
with her hands folded on the white table cloth, frowning impatiently.

The large hanging-lamp, which cast a bright light on the table and made her bent head gleam
like gold, did not brighten up her face.

His mother was in silk, in light silk, in a dress trimmed with lace, which only had something
that looked like a very transparent veil over the neck and arms. Oh, now he remembered, she
was to meet his father, who had not come home to dinner that day, in town at eight o'clock,
and go to a party with him. Oh, that was why he had had to come home so early. As if he could
not have got into bed alone.

"You've come so late," she said.

"You could have gone," he said.

"You know, my child, that I'm uneasy if I don't know that you are at home." She sighed: "How
could I have gone?"

He looked at her in surprise: why did she say that? Had somebody been telling tales about him
again? Why was she so funny?

He gazed at her with wide-open eyes, as though she were a perfect stranger to him in that dress
that left her neck and arms so bare. He put his food into his mouth lost in thought, and munched
it slowly. All at once he had to think a great deal of what he had heard Frau Lämke tell. His
father and mother had never told anything about when he was born.

And suddenly he stopped eating and launched the question into the stillness of the room, into
the stillness that reigned between him and her: "When I was born, did it last such a long time
too?"

"When what?--who?--you?" She stared at him.

She did not seem to have understood him. So he quickly swallowed the food he still had in his
mouth and said very loudly and distinctly: "Did it last such a long time when I was born? It
lasted very long when Frida was. Did you scream too, like Frau Lämke?"

"I?--who?--I?" She turned crimson and then very pale. She closed her eyes for a moment, she
felt dizzy; there was a buzzing in her ears. She jumped up from her chair, she felt she must
run away, and still she could not. She clutched hold of the table with shaking hands, but the
strong oak table had turned into something that shook uncertainly, that moved up and down,
slid about. What--what was the boy saying? O God!

She bit her lips, drew a deep breath, and was about to say: "Leave off asking such stupid questions,"
and yet could not say it. She struggled with herself. At last she jerked out: "Nonsense. Be
quick, finish eating. Then off to bed at once." Her voice sounded quite hoarse.

The boy's astonished look fell on her once more. "Why are you all at once so--so--so horrid?
Can't I even ask a question?" And he pushed his plate aside sulkily and stopped eating.

Why did she not answer him? Why did she not tell him something like what Frau Lämke had told
her Frida? Had he not been born as well? And had not his mother been pleased, too, when he
was born? It was very nasty of her that she did not tell him anything about it. Could she not
see how much, how awfully much he wanted to know something about it?

A burning curiosity was aroused in the child all at once. It tortured him, positively devoured
him. He would not be able to sleep the whole night, he would have to think of it again and
again. And he wanted to sleep, it was tiresome to lie awake--he wanted to know it he must know it.

Käte saw how gloomy the boy's face had grown. Oh, the poor, poor boy. If only she had not let
him go to those people. What had he been told there? What did he know? Had they made him suspicious?
What did those people know? Oh, they had made him suspicious, otherwise why should he have
tormented her with such questions?

A burning dread filled her mind, and yet her hands and feet were growing as cold as ice. But
her compassion was even greater than her dread--there he sat, looking so sad and with tears
in his eyes. The poor child, who wanted to know something about his birth, and whom she could
not, would not, dared not tell anything. Oh, if only she could think of something to say, only
find the right word.

"Wölfchen," she said gently, "you are still too young to hear about it--I can't tell you about
it yet. Another time. You don't understand it yet. When you're older--I'll tell you it another
time."

"No, now." She had gone up to him, and he caught hold of her dress and held her fast. He persisted
with the dull obstinacy that was peculiar to him: "Now. I will know it--I must know it."

"But I--I've no time, Wölfchen. I have to go--yes, I really must go, it's high time." Her eyes
wandered about the room, and she felt quite flustered: "I--no, I can't tell you anything."

"You will not," he said. "And still Frau Lämke told her Frida it." The sulky peevish expression
had disappeared from the boy's dark face, and made way for one of real sadness. "You don't
love me half so much, not in the same way as Frau Lämke loves her Frida."

She did not love him?--she did not love him?--Käte could have screamed. If any mother loved
her child it was surely she, and still this child felt instinctively that something was wanting.
And was not that mysterious bond wanting that binds a real mother so indissolubly and mysteriously,
so intimately to her real child?

"Wölfchen," she said in a soft tremulous voice, "my dear Wölfchen," and she stroked his hot
forehead with her icy cold hand. "You don't mean what you are saying. We love each other so
much, don't we? My child--my darling child, tell me."

She sought his glance, she hung on his answer.

But the answer she longed for did not come. He looked past her. "You see, you won't tell me
anything."

He seemed to harp on that. This burning desire had taken possession of him all at once. Somebody
had instilled it into him, there could be no other explanation for it. "Who--" she asked hesitatingly--"who
has told you--you should question me in this manner? Who?"

She had taken hold of his shoulders, but he wriggled away from under her touch. "Oh, why are
you so funny? No-nobody. But I should like to know it. I tell you, I should like to know it.
It worries me so. I don't know why it worries me, that's all."

It worried him--already? So early? Oh, then it was a suspicion, a suspicion--who knew from
whence it came? He suspected what had happened in his earliest childhood unconsciously. What
would happen? "O God, help me!" she cried to herself. The point now was to invent something,
make something up, devise something. Those torturing questions must never, never be asked again.

And she forced herself to smile, and when she felt that her smile was no smile, she stepped
behind his chair and laid her cheek on the top of his head and both her hands round his neck.
He could not look round at her in that way. And she spoke in the low voice in which fairy tales
are told to children.

"Father and I had been married a long time--just think, almost fifteen years!--and father and
I wanted so much to have a dear boy or a dear little girl, so that we should not be so much
alone. One day I was very sad, for all the other women had a dear child, and I was the only
one who had not, and I walked about outside and cried, and then I suddenly heard a voice it
came from heaven--no, a voice--a voice that--and--and----" She got bewildered, stammered and
hesitated: what was she to say now?

"Hm," he said impatiently. "And--? Tell me some more. And--?"

"And next day you were lying in our cradle," she concluded hastily and awkwardly, in an almost
stifled voice.

"And"--he had pushed her hands away, and had turned round and was looking into her face now--"that's
all?"

"Well--and we--we were very happy."

"How stupid!" he said, offended. "That's not 'being born.' Frau Lämke told it quite differently.
You don't know anything about it." He looked at her doubtfully.

She evaded his glance, but he kept his eyes fixed on hers. It seemed to her as if those scrutinising
eyes were looking right down into her soul. She stood there like a liar, and did not know what
more to say.

"You don't know anything about it," he repeated once more, bitterly disappointed. "Good night."
And he slouched to the door.

She let him go, she did not call him back to give her his good-night kiss. She remained sitting
without moving. She heard his steps in the room above. Now he opened the door to throw his
boots into the corner outside, now she heard them fall--now everything was quiet.

Oh, what was she to say to him later on when he asked her questions with full knowledge, a
man justified in asking questions and demanding an answer to them? She let herself fall into
the chair on which he had been sitting, and rested her head in her hands.

CHAPTER IX

The boy's friendship with the Lämkes was restricted. Her boy should never go there again. In
a manner Käte had grown jealous of the woman who spoke of such improper things and did not
mind what she said when children were present.

Frau Lämke could not boast any longer of receiving a friendly greeting from the fine lady.
Frau Schlieben walked past her house now without looking at her, and did not seem to hear her
respectful: "Good morning, ma'am."

"Tell me, Wolfgang, what have I done to your mother?" she asked the boy one day when she had
been out shopping and saw him again for the first time for several months. He was leaning against
the railing that enclosed the plot of ground opposite their house, staring fixedly at their door.

He gave a start; he had not heard her coming. And then he pretended not to see her, and stood
flicking the whip he held in his hand.

"Are you never coming to see us again?" she went on. "Have you been having a fight with Artur
or been quarrelling with Frida? No, it can't be that, as they've been looking out for you so
long. I suppose your mother won't let you, is that it? Hm, we're not good enough any more,
I suppose? Of course not. Lämke's only a porter and our children only a porter's children."

Her good-natured voice sounded mortified, and the boy listened attentively. He turned scarlet.

"Oh, I see, you are not allowed to. All right, stop away then, it's all the same to me." She
turned round to go, full of anger.

"Well, what do you want now?" A sound from him made her stop; she remained against her will.
There was something in the glance the boy gave her, as he looked her full in the face, that
kept her standing. "I know, my dear," she said good-naturedly, "it's not your fault. I know that."

"She won't let me," he muttered between his teeth, cracking his whip with a loud noise.

"Why not?" inquired the woman. "Hasn't she said why you're not to play with Artur and Frida
any more? Artur has got a new humming top--oh my, how it dances. And Frida a splendid ball
from the lady who lives in our house."

The boy's eyes flashed. He put out his foot and gave such a violent kick to a stone in front
of him that it flew over to the other side of the street. "I shall play with them all the same."

"Come, come, not so defiant," said the woman admonishingly. "It may be the children were naughty--bless
you, you can't be answerable for all they do. Listen, little Wolfgang, you must obey your mother
if she won't hear of your coming." She sighed. "We've been very fond of you, my dear. But it's
always like that, the friendship is very warm to begin with, and then all of a sudden the rich
think better of it. And you really are too big to sit with us in the cellar now----"

She was chattering on, when she felt someone seize hold of her hand. The boy held it in a very
firm grip. Bending down to him--for she was tall and thin and her eyes were no longer very
good owing to the demi-obscurity of their room--she saw that he had tears in his eyes. She
had never seen him cry before, and got quite a fright.

"Hush, hush, Wölfchen. Now don't cry, for goodness' sake don't, it isn't worth it." Taking
hold of a corner of her coarse blue working-apron--she had just run away from the wash-tub--she
wiped his eyes and then his cheeks, and then she stroked the hair that grew so straight and
thick on his round head.

He stood quite still in the street that was already so sunny, so spring-like, as though rooted
to the spot. He who had shrunk from caresses allowed her to stroke him, and did not mind if
others saw it too.

"I shall come to see you again, Frau Lämke. She can say what she likes. I will come to you."

As he went away, not running as he usually did, but slowly and deliberately, the woman followed
him with her eyes, and was surprised to see how big he had grown.

Käte had no easy time. However much she fought against Wölfchen having any intercourse with
the Lämkes--positively stood out against it--the boy was stronger than she. He succeeded in
gaining his end; the children were to come to him, even if he might not go to them. In the
garden, at any rate--he had wrung that concession from his mother.

They had had a struggle, as it were--no loud words and violent scenes, it is true, no direct
prohibitions on her side, no entreaties on his, but a much more serious, silent struggle. She
had felt that he was setting her at defiance, that the opposition in him increased more and
more until it became dislike--yes, dislike of her. Or did she only imagine it?

She would have liked to speak to her husband about it--oh, how she wanted to do it!--but she
dreaded his smile, or his indirect reproach. He had said a short time ago: "It's no trifle
to train a child. One's own is difficult enough, how much more difficult"--no, he should not
say "somebody else's" again, no, never again. This child was not somebody else's, it was their
own--their beloved child.  She gave way to Wolfgang. Anyhow there was no danger if the children
came to him in the garden; she could always see and hear them there. And she would be good
to them, she made up her mind the children should not suffer because she had already had to
weep many a secret tear at night on her pillow on account of their friendship. She would make
her boy fond of the garden, so fond that he would never long to go out into the street again.

But when she hid the coloured eggs on Easter Sunday, the day she had given Wölfchen permission
to invite the Lämkes and also the coachman's son into the garden, and put the nests and hares
and chickens into the box-tree that was covered with shoots and among the clusters of blue
scyllas that had just commenced to flower, something like anger rose in her heart. Now these
children would come with their bad manners and clumsy shoes and tread down her beds, those
flower-beds with which they had taken so much trouble, and in which the hyacinths were already
showing buds under the branches that protected them and the tulips lifting up their heads.
What a pity! And what a pity they would not be able to enjoy this first really spring day quietly,
listening undisturbed to the piping blackbird. And they had even refused to come. Hans Flebbe
had certainly accepted the invitation without showing any resentment--the coachman knew what
was the right thing to do--but the Lämkes did not want to come on any account--that is to say,
their mother did not wish it. Lisbeth had been sent there twice; the second time she had come
back quite indignant: "Really, what notions such people have." "Dear boy, it's no good, they
won't come," Käte had had to say. But then she had noticed how downcast he looked, and in the
night she had heard him sigh and toss about. No, that would not do. She wanted to feel his
arm, which he had flung so impetuously round her waist when she gave him permission to invite
the children, round her neck too. And then she had sat down and written--written to this uneducated
woman, addressing her as "Dear Madam," and had asked her to let the children look for eggs
to please Wolfgang.

Now they were there. They stood stiff and silent on the path dressed in their best clothes,
and did not even look at the flower-beds. Käte had always imagined she understood how to draw
out children extremely well, but she did not understand it in this case. She had praised Frida's
bran-new, many coloured check frock, and had lifted up her fair plait on which the blue bow
was dangling: "Oh, how thick!"--and she had remarked on Artur's shiny boots and Flebbe's hair,
which was covered with pomade and which he wore plastered down on both sides of his healthy-looking
footman's face with a parting in the middle. She had also made inquiries about their school
report at Easter, but had never got any longer answer than "yes" and "no."

The children were shy. Especially Frida. She was the eldest, and she felt how forced the friendly
inquiries were. She made her curtsey as she always did, quickly and pertly like a water wagtail
bobbing up and down, but her high girl's voice did not sound so clear to-day; the tone was
more subdued, almost depressed. And she did not laugh. Artur copied his sister, and Hans Flebbe
copied the girl too, for he always considered all she did worthy of imitation. The two boys
stood there, poor little wretches, staring fixedly at the points of their boots and sniffing,
as they dared not take out their handkerchiefs and use them.

Käte was in despair. She could not understand that her Wolfgang could find pleasure in having
such playfellows. Moreover, he was exactly like the others that day, taciturn and awkward.
Even when they commenced to look for the eggs, the children set about it very stupidly; she
had positively to push them to the hiding-place.

At last, tired out and almost irritable, Käte went indoors; she would only stop there a short
time. No, she could not stand it any longer, always to have to talk and talk to the children
and still not get any answer out of them.

But hardly had she reached her room, when she pricked up her ears; a cry reached her from outside
that was as clear, as piercing and triumphant as a swallow's when on the wing. Children shouted
like that when they were thoroughly happy--oh, she knew that from former times, from the time
before Wölfchen had come. Then she had often listened to such shouts full of longing. Oh--she
had only to go, then the children were merry, then Wolfgang was merry. She felt very bitter.

She had gone to the window and was looking out into the garden, with her forehead pressed against
the pane. How they ran, jumped, hopped, laughed. As though they had been set free. They were
trying to catch each other. Frida darted behind the bushes like a weasel, came into sight again
with a sharp piercing laugh, and then disappeared once more with a shriek. Wolfgang set off
after her wildly. He took no notice of the beds in which the flowers were growing, his mother's
delight; he jumped into the middle of them, caring little whether he broke the hyacinths or
the tulips, his one thought being to prevent Frida escaping.

And the two others copied him. Oh, how they trampled on the beds now. All three boys were after
the girl. The fair plait flew up and down in the sunshine like a golden cord, now here, now
there. At last Wolfgang seized hold of it with a triumphant shout. Frida endeavoured to get
it away, but the boy held it fast. Then she turned round as quick as lightning, and, laughing
all over her face, grasped him firmly round the body with both hands.

It was a harmless merry embrace, a trick of the game--the girl did not wish to be caught, she
wanted to pretend that she had been the captor--it was quite a childish innocent embrace, but
Käte reddened. She frowned: hardly had she turned her back, when the girl from the street showed
herself.

And the mother went into the garden again with a feeling of hatred towards the girl who, in
spite of her youth, already endeavoured to attract her boy.

If Käte had thought she would earn her boy's boisterous gratitude that evening after the children
had gone home, loaded with Easter eggs and having had plenty to eat, she was disappointed.
Wolfgang did not say a word.

She had to ask him: "Well, was it nice?"

"Hm."

That might just as well mean yes as no. But she learnt that it had meant no when she bade him
goodnight. It was his father's wish that he should kiss her hand; he did so that evening as
usual with an awkward, already so thoroughly boyish, somewhat clumsy gesture. His dark smooth
head bent before her for a moment--only a short moment--his lips just brushed her hand. There
was no pressure in the kiss, no warmth.

"Haven't you enjoyed yourself at all?" She could not help it, she had to ask once more. And
he, who was candid, said straight out:

"You always came just when it was nice."

"Well then, I won't disturb you in the future." She tried to smile. "Good night, my son." She
kissed him, but after he had gone there was a great terror in her heart, besides a certain
feeling of jealousy at the thought of being superfluous. If he were like that now, what would
he be later on?

Wolfgang could not complain, his mother let the children come to him in the garden as often
as he wanted them--and he wanted them almost every day. The friendship that had languished
during the winter became warmer than ever now that it was summer.

"Pray leave them," Paul Schlieben had said to his wife, as she looked at him with anxious eyes:
what would he say? Would he really not mind Wolfgang rushing about with those children in his
garden? "I think it's nice to see how the boy behaves to those children," he said. "I would
never have thought he could attach himself to anybody like that."

"You don't think it will do him any harm only to associate with those--those--well, with those
children who belong to quite a different sphere?"

"Nonsense. Harm?" He laughed. "That will stop of its own accord later on. I infinitely prefer
him to keep to the children of such people than to those of snobs. He'll remain a simple child
much longer in that manner."

"Do you think so?" Well, Paul might be right in a manner. Wölfchen was not at all fanciful,
he liked an apple, a plain piece of bread and butter just as much as cake. But all the same
it would have been better, and she would have preferred it, had he shown himself more dainty
with regard to his food--as well as to other things. She took great trouble to make him more
fastidious.

When the cook came to her quite indignant one day: "Master Wolfgang won't have any more of
the good saveloy on his bread now, nor of the joint from dinner either, ma'am he says it's
'always the same.' What am I to do now?" she was delighted. At last she had succeeded in instilling
into him that people do not swallow everything thoughtlessly without making any choice, just
for the sake of eating something.

If she had seen how he stuffed bread and dripping with liver and onion sausage on it down his
throat at Frau Lämke's, or gobbled up potato cake baked in oil hot from the pan, she would
not have been so delighted. But now she was grateful for every finer feeling she thought she
observed in him, be it ever so small. She did not notice at all what tortures she caused herself
in this manner.

Oh, why did not her husband help her to train him? If only he would. But he no longer understood
her.

Paul Schlieben had given up remonstrating with his wife. He had done so several times, but
what he had said had had no effect owing to the obstinacy with which she held fast to her principles.
Why should he quarrel with her? They had lived so many years happily together--it would soon
be their silver wedding--and was this child, this boy who could hardly write correctly as yet,
into whose head the master was just drilling the first rules in Latin--this child who after
all had nothing to do either with her or him--this outsider to separate him and his wife now
after they had been married so long? Rather than that it would be better to let many things
pass which it would perhaps have been better for Käte to have done differently. Let her see
how she could manage the boy in her way--she was so very fond of him. And when he, no longer
the plaything, had outgrown her delicate hands, then he, the man, was still there to make him
feel a more vigorous hand. Fortunately there was no deceit in the boy.

Paul Schlieben was not dissatisfied with Wolfgang. He certainly did not show any brilliancy
at school, he did not belong to the top boys of his form by any means, but still he kept quite
respectably in the middle of it. Well, there was no need for him to be a scholar.

Paul Schlieben had not the same opinion as formerly of the things he used to find in his younger
years the only ones worth considering: science, art, and their study. Now he was content with
his calling as merchant. And as this child had come into his life, had come into that position
without having done anything to bring it about himself, it was the duty of him who allowed
himself to be called "father" by him to prepare a future for him. So the man mapped out a certain
plan. When the boy had got so far as to pass the examination that entitled him to one year's
service in the army, he would take him away from school, send him a year to France, England
and possibly also to America, to firms of high standing in each country, and then, when he
had started from the bottom and learnt something, he would make him a partner. He thought how
nice it would be then to be able to lay many things on younger shoulders. And the boy would
no doubt be reliable; one could see that already.

If only Käte did not expect such a ridiculous amount of him. She was always after the boy--if
not in person, then in her thoughts, at any rate. She worried him--it could not be helped,
he was not an affectionate child--and did it make her happy?

He had many a time given the boy an imperceptible, pacifying nod, when his eyes had sought
his across the table as though asking for help. Yes, it was really getting more and more difficult
to get on with Käte.

           *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *

The Schliebens went away. The husband had consulted the doctor with regard to his wife, and
he had ordered Franzensbad. But it was absolutely impossible for him to accompany her there.
He would employ the time making some excursions on foot in the Tyrol, as it was a long time
since he had had a holiday. A couple of pounds less in weight would do him no harm.

But where was Wolfgang to be meanwhile?

"At home," said his father. "He's old enough; eleven years. He is at school in the morning
and in the garden in the afternoons, and Hofmann can come and see him every other day--to reassure
you."

It was an unbearable thought for the mother to leave the child alone. She would have preferred
to take him with her. But Paul had got vexed: "What next?" And the doctor had said. "On no
account."

Then Käte had wanted to induce her husband to take the boy with him: "How healthy it would
be for him to run about to his heart's content for once in a way."

"It seems to me he does enough of that here. Really, Käte, the boy is as strong as can be,
don't always make such a fuss about him. Besides, I'm not going to take him away from school
when it's quite unnecessary."

To be sure, he must not lose his place in the form, and possibly become one of the last. Käte
was so ambitious on her son's account. But as the July holidays were almost over and she had
not gone away with him during that time, which would have been more suitable, she would remain
at home for the present. She declared she could not go away.

However, the doctor and her husband arranged everything without her; the more nervously and
anxiously she refused to go, the more urgent a thorough cure seemed to be to them. The day
of departure had already been proposed.

But Lisbeth gave notice beforehand: no, if the mistress was going away for so long and the
master too, she would go as well. Remain alone with Wolfgang, with that boy? No, that she wouldn't.

She must have saved a tidy little sum during the well-nigh ten years she had been in the house,
for even the promise of a rise could not keep her. She persisted in her wish to leave, and
threw an angry look at the boy, whose laughing face appeared outside above the windowsill at
that moment.

Käte was beside herself. Not only because she did not want the servant she had had so long
to leave her, but she had reckoned so firmly on Lisbeth keeping a watchful eye on the boy during
her absence. And it pained her that she spoke of Wolfgang in such a tone full of hate. What
had the child done to her?

But Lisbeth only shrugged her shoulders without speaking, and looked sulky and offended.

Paul Schlieben took the boy in hand. "Just tell me, my boy, what's been the trouble between
you and Lisbeth? She has given notice, and it seems to me she's leaving on your account. Listen"--he
cast a keen glance at him--"I suppose you've been cheeky to her?"

The boy's face brightened: "Oh, that's nice, that's nice that she's going." He did not answer
the question that had been put to him at all.

His father caught him by the ear. "Answer me, have you been cheeky to her?"

"Hm." Wolfgang nodded and laughed. And then he said, still triumphing in the remembrance: "It
was only yesterday. I gave her a smack in the face. Why does she always say I've no right here?"

The man did not tell anything of this to his wife; she would only have brooded over it. He
had not punished the boy either, only shaken his finger at him a little.

Lisbeth went away. She left the house, in which she had served so long and faithfully and in
which she had had to put up with so much--as she weepingly assured her mistress, who was also
overcome with emotion--like an offended queen.

Another maid had been engaged, one in whom Käte had certainly not much confidence from the
commencement--Lisbeth had straightway given her the impression of being much more intelligent--but
there was no choice, as it was not the time of year when servants generally leave; and she
had to go to the baths as quickly as possible.

So Cilia Pioschek from the Warthe district came to the Schliebens.

She was a big, strong girl with a face that was round and healthy, white and red. She was only
eighteen, but she had already been in service a long time, three years as nurse at the farm
bailiff's whilst she still went to school. Paul Schlieben was amused at her--she did not understand
a joke, took everything literally and said everything straight out just as it came into her
head--but Käte called her behaviour "forward." On the other hand the new maid was on better
terms with the old cook and the man-servant than Lisbeth, as she put up with a good deal.

"You can go away with your mind at rest," said Paul. "Do me this favour, Käte, don't oppose
our plan any longer. In six weeks you will be back again quite well, God willing, and I shall
not see these"--he gave a slight tap with his finger--"these small wrinkles at the corners
of your eyes any more." He kissed her.

And she returned his kiss, now when she was to be separated from him for the first time since
their marriage for so long; for they had always, always travelled together before, and since
Wölfchen had come to the house he had only once asked permission to leave her for a fortnight
at the most. She had never left the child alone. And now she was to leave her dear ones for
six long weeks. She clung to him. She had it on the tip of her tongue to ask him: "Why don't
you go with me as you used to? Franzensbad and Spa--there's surely no great difference between
those two?" But why say it if he had never thought of doing so for a moment? Years had gone
by, and some of the tenderness that had united them so closely before, that they could only
enjoy things together, and that made them feel they never could be separated, had disappeared
under the winged flight of time.

She sighed and withdrew quietly from the arm that he had thrown round her. "If anybody should
come in and see us like this. Such an old couple," she said, trying to joke. And he gave a
somewhat embarrassed laugh, as she thought, and did not try to hold her.

But when the carriage which was to take her to the station in Berlin stood before the door
early one morning, when the two large trunks as well as the small luggage had been put on the
top of it, when he held out his hand to help her in and then took a seat beside her, she could
not refrain from saying: "Oh, if only you were going with me. I don't like travelling alone."

"If only you had said so a little earlier." He felt quite perturbed; he was exceedingly sorry.
"How easily I could have taken you there the one day, seen you settled there and come back
the next."

Oh, he did not understand what she meant by "if only you were going with me." Stay with her
there as well--that was what she had meant.

Her sorrowful eyes sought the upstairs window behind which Wölfchen was sleeping. She had had
to say goodbye to him the evening before, as she was leaving so early. She had only stood at
his bedside with a mute good-bye that morning, and her gloved hand had passed cautiously over
his head, that rested so heavily on the pillow, so as not to waken him. Oh, how she would have
liked to have said some loving words to him now.

"Give my love to the boy, give my love to the boy," she said quickly, hastily, several times
after each other, to the cook and Friedrich, who were standing near the carriage. "And take
good care of him. Do you hear? Give my love to the boy, give my love to the boy." She could
not say anything more or think of anything more. "Give my love to----"

Then the upstairs window rattled. Stretching both her arms out she rose half out of her seat.

The boy put his head out. His cheeks, that were hot with sleep, showed ruddy above his white
night-shirt.

"Good-bye, good-bye. Come back well. And be sure to write to me."

He called it out in a very contented voice and nodded down to her; and she saw Cilia's round,
healthy, white and red face behind his and heard her friendly laugh.

CHAPTER X

Käte did not know herself how she got over those weeks in which she was separated from her
home. It was not so bad as she had imagined. She felt that a greater tranquillity had come
over her, a tranquillity she never could feel at home; and this feeling of tranquillity did
her good. She wrote quite contented letters, and her husband's bright accounts of "magnificent
mountains" and "magnificent weather" delighted her. She also heard good news from Dr. Hofmann,
who used to send her his reports most faithfully, as he had promised.

"The boy is in the best of health," he wrote, "you need not worry about him, my dear lady.
He certainly has to do without his playfellows at present, for a boy and girl are ill, and
he feels bored when alone with the fat boy who is still left. He is generally by himself in
the garden; Friedrich has given him some lettuce plants, and he has also sown some radishes.
I have found him at his lessons as well."

Thank God! It seemed to the woman as if she could breathe freely now, as though free from a
load. She carried the letter from her old friend about in her pocket for a long time, read
it whilst out for a walk, when sitting on a bench and in the evening when lying in bed. "A
boy and girl are ill"--oh, the poor children. What could be the matter with them? But thank
God, he was mostly by himself in the garden now. That was the best.

She wrote a letter to her boy, a very bright one, and he answered her in the same strain. The
letter in itself was certainly rather funny. "Beloved mother"--how comical. And the whole wording
as though copied from a polite letter-writer. She made up her mind to enclose it in her next
letter to her husband what would he say to it? "Beloved mother"--but it pleased her all the
same, and also "Your obedient son" at the end of it. Otherwise the letter really contained
nothing, nothing of what he was doing, not even anything about the Lämkes, also no longing
"come back soon"; but it was written carefully, tidily and clearly, not such a scrawl as he
usually wrote. And that showed her that he loved her.

He had also enclosed a little picture, a small square with a border of lace paper, on which
there was a snow-white lamb holding a pink flag. Under it stood in golden letters, "Agnus Dei,
miserere nobis."

Where could he have got that from? Never mind from where, he had wanted to give her something.
And the small tasteless picture touched her deeply. The good boy.

She put the picture with the lamb of God carefully among her treasures; it should always remain
there. A tender longing came over her for the boy, and she could not imagine how she had been
able to stand it so long without him.

           *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *

August was over and September already almost half gone when Käte returned home. Her husband,
who had returned before her, came to meet her; they met in Dresden, and their meeting was a
very cordial one. He could never get tired of looking at her bright colour, her bright eyes;
and she on her side found him very sunburnt, more youthful-looking and almost as slender as
formerly.

They sat hand in hand in the compartment he had had reserved for them; quite alone like two
young lovers. They had an enormous amount to say to each other--there was nothing, nothing
whatever that disturbed them. They gazed at each other very tenderly.

"How delighted I am to have you again," she said, after he had told her a lot about his journey
in a lively manner.

"And I you." He nodded to her and pressed her hand. Yes, it really seemed to both of them as
if they had been separated from each other for an eternity. He drew her still closer, held
her as tightly as though she were a precious possession that had been half snatched away from
him, and she clung to him, leant her head on his shoulder and smiled dreamily.

Innumerable golden atoms danced on a slender slanting sunbeam before her half-closed eyes.
The even rattling of the carriages and the calm feeling of a great joy in her heart lulled
her to sleep.

Suddenly she started up--was it a jolt, a shock? She had all at once got a fright, as it were:
she had not asked anything about the child as yet!

"Wölfchen--what's Wölfchen doing?"

"Oh, he's all right. But now tell me, darling, how did you spend the whole day there? How was
it divided? In the morning to the spring--first one glass, after that a second--and then? Well?"

She did not tell him. "Wölfchen is surely well?" she asked hastily. "There must be something
wrong--you say so little about him. I've had such a misgiving the whole time. Oh dear, do tell
me." Her voice sounded almost irritable--how could Paul be so indifferent. "What's the matter
with Wölfchen?"

"The matter?" He looked at her in great surprise. "But why must there be something the matter
with him? He's as strong as a horse."

"Really? But tell me, tell me something about him."

He smiled at her impatience. "What is there to tell about such a boy? He sleeps, eats, drinks,
goes to school, comes home, runs out into the garden, sleeps, eats, drinks again and so on,
vegetates like the plants in the sunshine. It's much better for you to tell me how you are."

"Oh, I--I--" that seemed so superfluous to her all at once--"I--quite well, you can see that."
How indifferent he was with regard to the child. And she--his mother--had been able to forget
him so long too? She felt so ashamed of herself that she hastily raised her head from her husband's
shoulder and sat up straight. Now they were not lovers any longer, only parents who had to
think about their child.

And she only spoke of the boy.

Paul felt the sudden change in his wife. It depressed him: had they gone back to where they
were before? Did she already feel no interest again in anything but the boy? He no longer felt
any inclination to speak of his journey.

The conversation became more and more monosyllabic; he bought a paper at the next station,
and she leant back in her corner and tried to sleep. But she did not succeed in doing so, in
spite of feeling very tired; her thoughts continued to revolve round the one point: so there
was nothing the matter with him. Thank God! How indifferent Paul was, to be sure. Would Wölfchen
be very delighted when she came home? The dear boy--the darling boy.

She must have slept a little at last nevertheless, for she suddenly heard her husband's voice,
as though far away, saying: "Get ready, darling; Berlin," and she started up.

They were already among the innumerable lines that cross each other there. Then the train rushed
into the glass-roofed station.

"So we've got so far." He helped her out, and she began to tremble with impatience. Would this
running up and down stairs, this crossing to the other side of the station, and then the waiting
and watching for the train to the suburbs never come to an end? Would not Wölfchen be asleep?
It would be dark before they got home.

"Is the train soon coming? What time is it? Oh dear, what a long time we have to wait."

"Calm yourself, the boy is waiting for you, never fear. He sits a long time with Cilia every
evening; she hasn't much time for him during the day. A nice girl. You've been very fortunate
there."

She did not catch what he said, she was thinking the whole time how she would find him. Would
he have grown very much? Have changed? Children at his age are said to change constantly--had
he grown ugly, or was he still so handsome? But never mind! she used to attach more importance
to his outward appearance--as long as he was good, very good, that was all that mattered now.
In her thoughts she could already hear his shout of joy, already feel his arms round her neck,
his kiss on her mouth.

The wind, which had become pleasant towards evening after a day that had been hot in spite
of it already being autumn, fanned her face without being able to cool her cheeks that glowed
with emotion. As they stopped in front of the house, which, with its balconies full of bright
red geraniums, lay prettily concealed behind the evergreen pines under the starry September
sky, her heart beat as though she had run much too far and too quickly. At last! She drew a
deep breath--now she was with him again.

But he did not come running to meet her. How strange that he had not watched for her.

"They'll be sitting in the veranda at the back," said her husband. "They always sit there in
the evening." He remained behind a little. Let Käte see the boy alone first.

And she hurried through the hall past the beaming cook and without seeing Friedrich, who had
donned his livery after decorating all the rooms with the flowers he had raised himself; she
neither admired his successes in the garden nor the cake the cook had placed on the festive-looking
table. She ran from the hall into her small sitting-room and from thence through the dining-room,
the door of which led to the verandah. The door was open--now she stood on the threshold--those
outside did not see her.

There was only one of the shaded lamps on the veranda table that was burning, but it was bright
enough to light up the space around it. But Cilia was doing nothing. The stocking she was to
darn lay in her lap; her right hand in which she held the long darning-needle rested idly on
the edge of the table. She was leaning back a little; her face, which looked more refined and
prettier in the twilight, was raised; she seemed to be lost in thought with her mouth half open.

Nothing was to be seen of Wolfgang. But now his mother heard him speak in a tone full of regret:
"Don't you know any more? Oh!" And then urgently: "Go on, Cilia, go on, it was so beautiful."

Ah, now she saw him too. He was sitting at the girl's feet, on quite a low footstool, leaning
against her knee. And he was looking up at her imploringly, longingly at that moment, looking
at her with eyes that gleamed like dark polished agate, and speaking to her in a tone his mother
thought she had never heard from him before: "Sing, Cillchen. Dear Cillchen, sing."

The girl began:

      "Quoth she with voice subdued, 'Cease from quaking--

"Oh no.

            "Not in wrath am I before thee standing--

"No, not that, either.

        "Only why did I, weak one, believe thy vows--

"No, I don't know any more. Well, I never! And I've sung it so often when I was at home. At
home in the village when me and my sweetheart went for a walk together. Dear, dear"--she stamped
her foot angrily--"that I could forget like that."

"Don't be vexed, Cillchen. You mustn't be vexed. Begin again from the beginning, that doesn't
matter. I would love to hear it again, again and again. It's splendid."

"Cillchen--Cillchen"--how playful that sounded, positively affectionate. And how he hung on
her lips.

Käte craned her neck forward; she was in the veranda now, but the two had not noticed her yet.

The girl sang in a drawling, sing-song voice as she had sung in the village street at home,
but the boy's eyes glistened and grew big as he listened to her. His lips moved as though he
were singing as well:

           "Satin and silk new-wed Henry cover;
            Wealthy his bride, brought from land o' Rhine
            But serpent stings tease the perjured lover,
            Bid slumbers sweet his rich bed decline.

           "The clock strikes twelve: sudden are appearing
            Through curtain fringe, fingers, slender, white.
            Whom sees he now? His once dear----"

The singer came to a standstill--suddenly the sound of a deep-drawn breath passed through the
veranda. The boy gave a terrified shriek--there she stood, there she stood!

"Why, Wolfgang! Wölfchen!" His mother stretched out her arms to him, but he buried his head
in the girl's lap.

Käte frowned at the girl: what nonsense to sing such songs to him.

"Oh, the mistress!" Cilia jumped up, her face crimson, and let everything she had on her lap
stocking, darning ball, wool and scissors--fall on the floor; the boy as well.

Why were they both so terrified? Wolfgang stared at her as if she were a ghost.

He had risen now, had kissed his mother's hand, and mechanically raised his face to receive
her kiss; but his face did not show that he was glad to see her. Or was it embarrassment, a
boyish shame because she had taken him by surprise? His eyes did not gaze straight at her,
but always sideways. Did he look upon her as a stranger--quite a stranger?

An inexpressible disappointment filled the heart of the woman who had just returned home, and
her voice sounded harsh without intending it as she told the girl to go away. She sat down
on the seat near the table, which she had just vacated, and drew her boy toward her.

"How have you got on, Wölfchen? Tell me--well?"

He nodded.

"Have you missed your mother a little?"

He nodded again.

"I've brought such a lot of pretty things for you."

Then he grew animated. "Have you also brought something for Cilia? She could find use for a
workbasket with all kinds of things in it very well: she has only an old one she used at school,
you know. Oh, she can tell such splendid stories--ugh, that make you shiver. And how she can
sing. Let her sing this one for you:

           "A smart pretty maiden, quite a young sprig,
            A farmer did choose for his bride;
            Her favours, however, to a soldier man jig,
            And sly to her old man she cried--

"It's perfectly ripping, I can tell you."

And he began to hum the continuation with a laugh:

           "He had much better toss the hay, hooray,
            The hay, hooray----"

"Hush!" She put her hand to his mouth. "That's not at all a nice song--it's a horrid one. You
mustn't sing that any more."

"But why not?" He gazed at her with eyes round with amazement.

"Because I don't wish it," she said curtly. She was indignant: she would give the girl a bit
of her mind to-morrow, yes, to-morrow.

Her cheeks were no longer hot. A cold wind blew through the veranda, which pierced her to the
very heart. When her husband called out: "Why, Käte, what have you been doing with yourself?
Do take off your things first," she quickly answered his call.

The boy remained alone behind, and looked out into the mild night that was now quite dark,
with blinking, dreamy eyes. Oh, how beautifully Cilia had sung. She would have to sing and
tell him stories to-morrow as well. But if she were to come there again! Never mind, they would
be sure to be able to find a place where they would be undisturbed.

Käte did not sleep at all that first night, although she was dead-tired. Perhaps too tired.
She had had a long talk about it with Paul after they were in bed. He had said she was right,
that neither the one nor the other song was very suitable, but: "Good gracious, what a lot
of things one hears as a child that never leave any trace whatever," he had said.

"Not on him." And then she had said plaintively: "I've so often tried to read something really
beautiful to him, the best our poets have written but he takes no interest in it, he has no
understanding for it as yet. And for such--such"--she sought for an expression and did not
find it--"for such things he goes into raptures. But I won't allow it, I won't stand it. Such
things may not come near him."

"Then let her go," he had said testily. He was on the point of falling asleep, and did not
want to be disturbed any more. "Good night, darling, have a good night's rest. Now that you've
come home again you'll do what you think right."

Yes, that she would!

From that day forth she never let the boy out of her sight. And her ears were everywhere. There
was no reason to send the girl away--she was honest and clean and did her duty--only she must
not be alone with Wölfchen again. Wolfgang was now in his twelfth year, it was not a maid's
place to look after him any more.

But it was difficult for Käte to live up to her resolutions. Her husband, of course, had claims
on her too, and also her house and her social life; it was not possible to shake off, give
up, neglect everything else for the one, for the child's sake. Besides, it might make her husband
seriously angry with the child, if she constantly went against his wishes; she trembled at
the thought of it. She had to go into society with him now and then, he was pleased when she--always
well dressed--was in request as an agreeable woman. He was fond of going out--and went, alas,
much, much too often. So she instructed the cook and the man-servant--even begged them earnestly
to keep a watch on what was going on. They were quite amazed; if the mistress was so little
satisfied with Cilia, she should give her notice; there would be girls enough on the 1st of
January.

Käte turned away angrily: how horrid of the servants to want to drive the other away. And if
another one came into the house, might it not be exactly the same with her? Servants are always
a danger to children.

Wolfgang was developing quickly, especially physically. It was not that he was growing so tall,
but he was getting broader, becoming robust, with a strong neck. When he threw snowballs with
the Lämkes outside the door he looked older than Artur, who was of the same age, even older
than Frida. He was differently fed from these children. His mother was delighted to notice
his clear, fresh-looking skin, and saw that he had plenty of warm baths and a cold sponge down
every morning. And he had to go to the hairdresser every fortnight, where his thick, smooth
mop of dark hair, which remained somewhat coarse in spite of all the care expended on it, was
washed and a strengthening lotion rubbed into it. The Lämkes looked almost starved when compared
with him; they had not recovered from the effects of scarlet fever very long. If only Wölfchen
did not get it too. His mother had a great dread of it. She had kept him away from the Lämkes
until quite recently; but there was always the danger of infection at school. Oh dear, one
never had peace, owing to the child.

           *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *

They had had a splendid time out of doors. The lake that lies below the villas like a calm
eye between the dark edges of the woods was frozen; Wolfgang and half of his form had been
skating there. Käte had also walked up and down the shore for some time after their midday
meal, watching her boy. How nicely he skated already. He was more secure on his legs and skated
better than many of the lads who were describing the figure eight and circles, skating in the
Dutch style and dancing with ladies. He was always trying to do all kinds of tricks already,
he was certainly courageous. If only he did not fall down or tumble into the water! And he
was always skating into the middle of the lake, where the wisps of straw had been placed to
show that it was dangerous. It seemed to the mother that nothing could happen to him as long
as she stood on the shore watching him incessantly. But at last her feet were quite frozen,
and she had to go home.

When the boy came home, as it was commencing to grow dark, he was very bright. He spoke of
the skating with great glee. "Oh, that was ripping. I should like to run like that for ever--to-morrow,
the day after to-morrow--every day--and further and further every time. The lake is much too
small."

"Aren't you tired at all?" inquired his mother, smiling at him. She never grew weary of gazing
at him, he looked so beaming.

"Tired?" The corners of his mouth drooped with a smile that was almost contemptuous. "I'm never
tired. Not of such things. Cilia said she would like to skate with me some time."

"Well, why not?" His father, who was sitting at the table drinking his coffee, smiled good-humouredly;
it amused him to tease the lively boy a little. "Then your mother will have to engage a second
housemaid, as long as there's ice on the ground."

Wolfgang did not understand that he was bantering. He cried out, quite happy: "Yes, she must
do that." But then his face grew long: "But she has no skates, she says. Father, you'll have
to buy her some."

"I'l be hanged if I will--well, what next?" His father gave a loud laugh. "No, my boy, with
all due respect to Cilia, it would be carrying it a little too far to let her skate. Don't
you agree with me?"

He looked at his wife, who was rattling the cups loudly, quite contrary to her custom. She
said nothing, she only gave a silent nod, but her face had quite changed and grown cold.

The boy could not understand it. Why should Cilia not skate? Did not his mother like her? Funny.
It was always like that, whenever there was anything he liked very, very much, she did not like it.

He rested his head on both hands as he sat working at his desk: it felt so heavy. His eyes
burnt and watered when he fixed them on his exercise-book--he must be tired, he supposed. His
Latin would not be good. In his mind's eye he already saw the master shrug his shoulders and
hurl his book on to the bench over so many heads: "Schlieben, ten faults. Boy, ten faults!
If you don't pull yourself together, you'll not get your remove to Form IV. with the others
at Easter."

Pooh, he did not mind much--no, really not at all. On the whole nothing was of any importance
to him whatever. All at once he felt so dead-tired. Why did she begrudge Cilia everything?
She told such ripping stories. What was it she had told last night when his parents were out
and she had crept to his bedside? About--about--? He could not collect his thoughts any more,
everything was confused.

His head sank on his desk; he fell asleep, with his arms stretched out over his books.

When he awoke an hour might have passed by, but he did not feel rested all the same. He stared
round the room and shivered. All his limbs ached.

And they hurt him the whole night through, he could not sleep; his feet were heavy as he dragged
himself to the lake to skate next afternoon.

He returned home from skating much earlier than usual. He did not want to eat or drink anything,
he constantly felt sick. "How green the boy looks to-day," said his father. His mother brushed
his hair away from his forehead anxiously: "Is anything the matter with you, Wölfchen?" He said no.

But when evening came round again and the wind whispered in the pine-trees outside and a ghostly
hand tapped at the window--ugh, a small white hand as in Cilia's song--he lay in bed, shivered
with cold in spite of the soft warm blankets, and felt his throat ache and his ears tingle
and burn.

"He's ill," his mother said very anxiously next morning. "We'll get the doctor to come at once."

"Oh, it can't be anything much," said the man reassuringly. "Leave him in bed, give him some
lemon to drink so that he can perspire, and then an aperient. He has eaten something that has
disagreed with him, or he's caught cold."

But the doctor had to be telephoned for at noon. The boy was slightly delirious and had a great
deal of fever.

"Scarlet fever!" The doctor examined his chest and then pulled up the cover again very carefully.
"But the rash isn't quite out yet."

"Scarlet fever?" Käte thought she would have sunk down on her knees--oh, she had always been
so terribly afraid of that.

           *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *

The clear frosty weather with the bright sunshine and a sky that was almost as blue as in summer
was over. Grey days with a heavy atmosphere hung over the roof of the villa; Käte, who was
standing at the window in the sick-room, staring out at the tops of the pines that were mourning
in the dull mist with tired eyes, thought she had never seen anything greyer.

The disease had seized hold of the boy with powerful grip, as though his vigorous, well-nourished
body were just the sort of hot-bed for the flames of the fever to rage in. The doctor shook
his head: the scarlet fever had taken such a mild form everywhere else except in this case.
And he warned them against the boy catching cold, prescribed this and that, did his best--not
only as his duty, no, but because he felt such deep and hearty sympathy for them--he had always
been so fond of the robust lad. They all did their best. Every precaution was taken, every
care--everything, everything was to be done for him.

Käte was untiring. She had refused the assistance of a nurse; she violently opposed the wishes
both of her husband and her old friend; no, she wanted to nurse her child alone. A mother does
not grow tired, oh no.

Paul had never believed that his wife could do so much and be so patient at the same time--she,
that nervous woman, to be so untiring, so undaunted. She had always had a light step, now she
could not even be heard when she glided through the sick-room; now she was on the left side
of the bed, now on the right. She, whose strength gave way so easily even if her intentions
were good, was always, always on the spot. There were many nights in which she did not get
an hour's sleep. Next morning she would sit like a shadow in the large arm-chair near the bed,
but still she was full of joy: Wolfgang had slept almost two hours!

"Don't do too much, don't do too much," implored her husband.

She put him off with: "I don't feel it. I'm so fond of doing it."

How long was it to go on? Would, could her strength hold out? "Let the girl sit up with him
for one night at least. She would be so glad to take your place."

"Cilia? No."

Cilia had offered her services again and again: oh, she would take such good care of him, she
knew how, for a little brother of hers had died of scarlet fever. "Let me do it," she implored,
"I shall not fall asleep, I'll take such good care of him."

But Käte refused. It cut her to the heart every time she heard her boy say in his feverish
dreams during the nights that were so long and so black: "Cillchen--we'll toss the hay--hooray--Cillchen."

Oh, how she hated that round-cheeked girl with her bright eyes. But she feared her more than
she hated her. In the hours of darkness, in those hours in which she heard nothing but the
sick boy's moans and the restless beating of her own heart, this girl seemed to wander about
in another form. She appeared to her out of the night, large and broad, she stationed herself
boldly near the child's bed, and something of the triumph of power flashed in her eyes, that
were otherwise so dull and unintelligent.

Then the tired-out woman would press her hands to her throbbing temples, and stretch out her
arms as though to ward her off: no, no, you there, go away! But the phantom remained standing
at the child's bed. Who was it: the mother--the Venn--the maid--Frau Lämke? Oh, they were all one.

Tears of anguish rolled down Käte's cheeks. How the boy laughed now. She stooped over him so
closely that their breaths intermingled, as she had done once before, and whispered to him:
"Your mammy is here, your mammy is with you."

But he made no sign of recognition.

Cilia's face was swollen with weeping as she opened the kitchen door in the basement on hearing
somebody give a gentle knock. Frau Lämke greeted her in a whisper; she had always sent the
children so far, but they had come home the day before with such a confusing report, that her
anxiety impelled her to come herself. She wanted to ask how he was getting on. Two doctors'
carriages stood outside the gate, and that had terrified her anew.

"How is he? How is he to-day?"

The girl burst into tears. She drew the woman into the kitchen in silence, where she found
the cook leaning against the fireplace without stirring any pan, and Friedrich just rushing
upstairs to answer the electric bell as if somebody were in pursuit of him.

"Dear, dear!" Frau Lämke clasped her hands. "Is the boy so bad, really so bad?"

Cilia only nodded and hid her streaming eyes in her apron, but the cook said dully: "It's about
over."

"About over? Will he really die Wolfgang, the boy?" The woman stared incredulously: that was
impossible. But she had turned terribly pale.

"Well, it's bad enough," said the cook. "Our doctor has called in another professor, a very
well-known one--he was here yesterday--but they don't believe that they can do anything more.
The illness has attacked the kidneys and heart. He no longer knows anybody, you know. I was
in the room this morning, I wanted to see him once more--there he lay quite stiff and silent,
as though made of wax. I don't believe he'll pull through." The good-natured woman wept.

They all three wept, sitting round the kitchen table. Frau Lämke entirely forgot that she had
made up her mind never to enter that kitchen again, and that her cabbage, that she had put
on for their dinner, was probably burning. "Oh, dear, oh dear," she repeated again and again,
"how will she get over it? Such a child--and an only child, whom she adored so."

Upstairs the doctors were standing at the sick-bed, the old family doctor and the great authority,
who was still a young man. They were standing on the right and the left of it.

The rash had quite disappeared; there was not a trace of red on the boy's face now, and his
eyes with their extremely black lashes remained persistently closed. His lips were blue. His
broad chest, which was quite sunken now, trembled and laboured.

At every gasping breath he took his mother gasped too. She was sitting in a chair at the foot
of the bed, stiffly erect; she had sat like that the whole night. Her piercing eyes with their
terrified expression flew to the doctors' grave faces, and then stared past them into space.
There they stood, to the right and to the left--but there, there!--did they not see it?--there
at the head of the bed stood Death!

She started up with an inarticulate sound, then sank down again as though broken in spirit.

The doctors had given the child, who was so dangerously ill, an injection; his heart was very
weak, which made them fear the worst. Then the authority took leave: "I'll come again to-morrow"--but
a shrug of the shoulders and a "Who knows?" lay in that "I'll come again to-morrow."

The family doctor was still there; he could not leave them, as he was their friend. Käte had
clung to him: "Help! Help my child!" Now he was sitting with Paul Schlieben downstairs in his
study; Käte had wished to remain alone with the sick boy, she only wanted to know that he was near.

The two men sat in silence with a glass of strong wine before them. "Drink, do drink, my dear
friend," Paul Schlieben had said to the doctor; but he did not drink himself. How will she
stand it, how will she stand it? That buzzed in his head the whole time. He was wrapped in
thought, and there were deep lines on his forehead. And the doctor did not disturb him.

Käte was on her knees upstairs. She had sunk down in front of the chair in which she had watched
through all those anxious nights, and was holding her hands pressed against her upturned face.
She was seeking the God on high who had once upon a time laid the child so benignantly in her
path, and was now going to cruelly tear it away from her again. She cried to God in her heart.

"O God, O God, don't take him from me. Thou must not take him from me. I have nothing else
in the world beside him. God, God!"

Her surroundings, all her other possessions--also her husband--were forgotten. She had only
the child now. That one child that was so dear, so good, so clever, so excellent, so obedient,
so beautiful, so charming, so extremely lovable, that had made her life so happy, so rich that
she would be poor, poor as a beggar were he to leave her.

"Wölfchen, my Wölfchen!"

How dear he had always, always been; so entirely her child. She did not remember anything more
about the tears she had shed on his account; if she had ever shed any, they had been tears
of joy, yes, only tears of joy. No, she could not do without him.

Starting up from the position in which she had been praying she dragged herself to his bedside.
She took his body, which was growing cold, into her arms and laid it on her breast in her despair,
and her glowing breath passed all over him. She wanted to let all her warmth stream into him,
to hold him fast to this earth with the force of her will-power. When his breast fought for
air, her breast fought too, when his heart-beat flagged, hers flagged too. She felt that his
coldness was making her cold, that her arms were stiffening. But she did not let him go. She
fought with Death standing at the head of the bed--who was stronger, Death or her love, the
mother's love?

Nobody could get her away from the boy's bed, not even the nurse whom Dr. Hofmann had sent
out when he had at last been compelled to go to town that afternoon. The nurse and her husband
attempted to raise her by gentle force: "Only an hour's rest, only half an hour's. In the next
room or here on the sofa."

But she shook her head and remained on her knees: "I'm holding him, I'm holding him."

Evening came on. Then midnight. It had blown a good deal earlier in the day, but it was very
quiet outside now. As quiet as death. There was no longer any wind to shake the pines around
the house; they stood bolt upright against the clear, frosty sky, their tops as though cut
out of stiff cardboard. The stars blinked mercilessly; the full moon was reflected on the glittering
silvery surface of the frozen lake, from which the strong wind had swept all the damp snow
the day before and made it clean. A terrible cold had set hi all at once, which seemed to lay
hold of everything with its icy breath.

The watchers shivered with cold. When Paul Schlieben looked at the thermometer, he was horrified
to see how little it registered even in the room. Was the heating apparatus not in order? You
could see your own breath. Had the servants forgotten to put coals on?

He went down into the basement himself; he could have rung, but he felt he must do something.
Oh, how terribly little you could do. His wife cowered in the arm-chair in silence now, with
large, staring eyes; the nurse was half asleep, nothing stirred in the room. The boy, too,
was lying as quietly as if he were already dead.

A great dread took possession of the man, as he groped his way through the dark house. There
was something so paralysing in the silence; all at once everything, the rooms, the staircase,
the hall seemed so strange to him. Strange and empty. How the breath of youth had filled them
with life before, filled them with the whole untamed thoughtlessness of a wild boy!

He leant heavily on the banisters as he groped his way downstairs. Would the servants still be up?

He found them all there. They sat shivering round the table in the kitchen, which was as cold
as though there had not been a bright, blazing fire there all day. The cook had made some strong
coffee, but even that did not make them any warmer. An icy cold crept through the whole house;
it was as though the ice and snow from outside had come in, as though the chill breath of frozen
nature were sweeping through the house too, from attic to cellar.

It was no use throwing more coals into the jaws of the huge stove, or that the water that streamed
through all the pipes was hotter. Nobody's feet or hands were any warmer.

"We will try what a very hot bath will do for the patient," said the nurse. She had often seen
this last remedy rewarded with success in similar cases.

All hands were busy. The cook made a fire, the other two dragged the boiling water upstairs;
but Cilia carried more and was quicker about it than Friedrich. She felt all the inexhaustible
strength of youth in her that is glad to be able to do something. How willingly she did it
for that good boy. And she murmured a short prayer in a low voice every time she poured a bucketful
into the tub that had been placed near the bed. She could not make the sign of the cross, as
neither of her hands was at liberty, but she was sure the saints would hear her all the same.

"Holy Mary! Holy Joseph! Holy Barbara! Holy guardian angel! Holy Michael, fight for him!"

The cook, who remained downstairs in the kitchen, looked for her hymn-book; she was a Protestant
and did not use it every day. When she found it she opened it at random: the words would be
sure to suit. Oh dear! She showed it to Friedrich, trembling. There was written:

           "When my end is drawing nigh,
            Ah, leave me not----"

Oh dear, the boy was to die. They were both as though paralysed with terror.

Meanwhile nimble Cilia was flying up and down stairs. She did not feel so dismayed any longer.
He would not die, she was sure of that now.

Whilst those who were in the room lifted him into the bath, Paul Schlieben and the nurse, and
his mother placed her feeble hands underneath him to support him, Cilia stood outside the door
and called upon all her saints. She would have liked to have had her manual of devotion, her
"Angels' Bread," but there was no time to fetch it. So she only stammered her "Help" and "Have
mercy," her "Hail" and "Fight for him," with all the fervour of her faith.

And the boy's pallid cheeks began to redden. A sigh passed his lips, which had not opened to
utter a sound for so long. He was warm when they put him back into the bed. Very soon he was
hot; the fever commenced again.

The nurse looked anxious: "Now ice. We shall have to try what ice-bags will do."

Ice! Ice!

"Is there any ice in the house?" Paul Schlieben hurried from the sick-room. He almost hit the
girl's forehead with the door as she stood praying outside.

Ice! Ice! They both ran down together. But the cook was at her wits' end too; no, there was
no ice, they had not thought any would be required.

"Go and get some, quick."

The man-servant rushed off, but oh! before he could reach the shop, awake somebody and return,
the flame upstairs might have burnt so fiercely that there was nothing left of the poor little
candle. The man looked round, almost out of his mind with anxiety, and he saw Cilia with a
chopper and pail running to the back-door.

"I'm going to fetch some ice."

"But where?"

"Down there." She laughed and raised her arm so that the chopper glittered. "There's plenty
of ice in the lake. I'm going to chop some."

She was already out of the kitchen; he ran after her without a hat, without a cap, with only
the thin coat on he wore in the house.

The terrors of the night gave way before the faint hope, and he did not feel the cold at first.
But when the villas were lost sight of behind the pines, when he stood quit alone on the banks
of the frozen lake that shone like a hard shield of metal, surrounded by silent black giants,
he felt so cold that he thought he should freeze to death. And he was filled with a terror
he had never felt the like to before a--deadly fear.

Was not that a voice he heard? Hallo! Did it not come from the wood that had the appearance
of a thicket in the blue, confusing glitter of the moonlight? And it mocked and bantered, half
laughed, half moaned. Terrible. Who was shrieking so?

"The owl's screeching," said Cilia, and she raised the chopper over her shoulder with both
hands and let it whiz down with all her might. The ice at the edge splintered, It cracked and
broke; the sound was heard far out on the lake, a growling, a grumbling, a voice out of the deep.

Would the boy die--would he live?

The man gazed around him with a distraught look. O God! Yes, that was also in vain--would also
be in vain. Despite all his courage he felt weak as he stood there. Here was night and loneliness
and the wood and the water--he had seen it all before, it was familiar to him--but it had never
been like this, so quiet and still, so alive with terrors. The trees had never been so high
before, the lake never so large, the world in which they lived never so far away.

Something seemed to be lurking behind that large pine--was a gamekeeper not standing there
aiming at him, ready to shoot an arrow through his heart? The silence terrified him. This deep
silence was awful. True, the blows of the chopper resounded, he could hear the echo across
the lake, and nothing deterred Cilia from doing her work--he admired the girl's calmness--but
the menace that lay in the silence did not grow any less.

The distracted man shuddered again and again: no, he knew it now--oh, how distinctly he felt
it--nobody could do anything against that invisible power. Everything was in vain.

He was filled with a great grief. He seized hold of the pieces of ice the girl had chopped
off with both hands, and put them into the pail; he tore his clothes, he cut himself on the
jagged edges that were as sharp as glass, but he did not feel any physical pain. The blood
dripped down from his fingers.

And now something began to flow from his eyes, to drip down his cheeks, heavy and clammy--slow,
almost reluctant tears. But still the hot tears of a father who is weeping for his child.

CHAPTER XI

"Dear me, how big you've grown!" said Frau Lämke. "I suppose we shall soon have to treat you
as a grown-up gentleman and say 'sir' to you?"

"Never!" Wolfgang threw his arms round her neck.

The woman was quite taken aback: was that Wolfgang? He was hardly to be recognised after his
illness so approachable. And although he had always been a good boy, he had never been so affectionate
as he was now. And how merry he was, he laughed, his eyes positively sparkled as if they had
been polished.

Wolfgang was full of animal spirits and a never-ending, indomitable joyousness. He did not
know what to do with himself. He could not sit still for a moment, his arms twitched, his feet
scraped the ground.

His master stood in terror of him. He alone, the one boy, made the whole of the fourth form
that had always been so exemplary run wild. And still one could not really be downright angry
with him. When the tired man, who had had to give the same lessons year after year, sit at
the same desk, give the same dictations, set the same tasks, hear the same pieces read, repeat
the same things, had to reprove the boy, something like a gentle sadness was mingled with the
reproof, which softened it: yes, that was delight in existence, health, liveliness, unconsumed
force--that was youth.

Wolfgang did not mind the scoldings he got, he had no ambition to become head of his form.
He laughed at the master, and could not even get himself to lower his head and look sad when
his mother waved a bad report in his face in her nervous excitement: "So that's all one gets
in return for all one's worry?"

How ambitious women are! Paul Schlieben smiled; he took it more calmly. Well, he had not had
the hard work that Käte had had. As the boy had missed so many lessons owing to his illness,
she had sat with him every day, and written and read and done sums and learnt words and rules
and repeated them with him indefatigably, and set him exercises herself besides the schoolwork,
and in this manner he had succeeded in getting his remove into the fourth form with the others
at Easter, in spite of the weeks and weeks he had been away from school. She had drawn a deep
breath of relief: ah, a mountain had been climbed. But still the road was not straight by any
means. When the first blackbirds began to sing in the garden he became No. 15 in his form--that
is to say, an average pupil--when the first nightingale trilled he was not even among the average,
and when summer came he was among the last in his form.

It was too tempting to sow, plant, and water the garden, to lie on the grass in the warm sunshine
and have a sun bath. And still better to rove about out of doors along the edges of the wood
or bathe in the lake and swim far out, so far that the other boys would call out to him: "Come
back, Schlieben, you'll be drowned."

"Be thankful that there is so much life in him," said Paul to his wife. "Who would have thought
only six months ago that he would ever be like this? It is fortunate that he isn't fond of
sitting indoors. 'Plenty of fresh air,' Hofmann said, 'plenty of movement. Such a severe illness
always does some harm to the constitution.' So let us choose the lesser of two evils. But still
the rascal must remember that he has duties to perform as well."

It was difficult to combine the two. Käte felt she was becoming powerless. When the boy's eyes,
which were as bright as sloes, implored her to let him go out, she dared not keep him back.
She knew he had not finished his school-work, had perhaps not even commenced it; but had not
Paul said: "One must choose the lesser of two evils," and the doctor: "Such a severe illness
always leaves some weakness behind, therefore a good deal of liberty"?

She suddenly trembled for his life; the horror of his illness was still fresh in her mind.
Oh, those nights! Those last terrible hours in which the fever had risen higher and higher
after the hot bath, the pulse and the poor heart had rushed along at a mad pace, until the
ice from the lake had at last, at last brought coolness, and he had fallen into a sound sleep,
which, when the sky commenced to glow in the east and a new day had looked in through the window,
had turned into a beneficial, miraculous perspiration.

So she had to let the boy run about.

But that he hung on Cilia's arm when she had to go an errand in the evening, that he hurried
after her when she only took a letter to the box, or that he brought her a chair when she wanted
to sit with her mending-basket under the elderberry bush near the kitchen door was not to be
tolerated. When Käte heard that Cilia had not gone further than the nearest pines on the edge
of the wood when it was her Sunday out, and had sat there for hours with the boy on the grass,
there was a scene.

Cilia wept bitter tears. What had she done? She had only told Wölfchen about her home.

"What's your home to him? He is to mind his own business and you yours." Käte was about to
say still more, to cry out: "Leave off telling him your private concerns, I won't have it,"
but she controlled herself, although with difficulty. She could have boxed this round-cheeked
girl's ears, as she looked at her so boldly with her bright eyes. Even Frida Lämke was preferable
to her.

But Frida did not show herself very often now. She already wore a dress that reached to her
ankles, attended a sewing class out of school-hours, and after her confirmation, which was
to be a year next Easter she was to go "to business," as she said very importantly.

"I shall give her notice," said Käte one evening, when Cilia had cleared the table and she
was sitting quite alone with her husband.

"Oh!" He had not really been listening. "Why?"

"Because of her behaviour." The woman's voice vibrated with suppressed indignation more than
that, with passionate excitement. Her eyes, which were generally golden brown and gentle, became
dark and sombre.

"Why, you're actually trembling! What is the matter now?" He laid the paper he was about to
read aside, quite depressed. There was some trouble with the boy again; nothing else excited
her in that manner.

"I can't have it any longer." Her voice was hard, had lost its charm. "And I won't stand it.
Just think, when I came home to-day I was away an hour towards evening, hardly an hour good
gracious, you cannot always be spying, you demean yourself in your own eyes." Her hands closed
over each other, gripped each other so tightly that the knuckles showed quite white. "I had
left him at his desk, he had so much to do, and when I returned not a stroke had been done.
But I heard--heard them downstairs, at the back of the house near the kitchen door."

"Heard whom?"

"Wolfgang and her, of course--Cilia. I had only been away quite a short time."

"Well--and then?"

She had stopped and sighed, full of a deep distress which drove away the anger from her eyes.

"He put his arms round her neck from behind. And he kissed her. 'Dear Cillchen,' he said. And
she drew him towards her, took him almost on her lap--he is much too big for that, much too
big--and spoke softly to him the whole time."

"Did you understand what she said?"

"No. But they laughed. And then she gave him a slap behind--you should only have seen it--and
then he gave her one. They took turns to slap each other. Do you consider that proper?"

"That goes too far, you are right. But it's nothing bad. She is a good girl, quite unspoilt
as yet, and he a stupid boy. Surely you don't intend to send the girl away for that? For goodness'
sake, Käte, think it well over. Did they see you?"

"No."

"Well, then, don't do it. It's much wiser. I'll speak to the boy some time when I find an opportunity."

"And you think I couldn't--I can't--I mustn't send her away?" Käte had grown quite dejected
in the presence of his calmness.

"There's no reason whatever for it." He was fully convinced of what he said, and wanted to
take up his paper again. Then he caught her eyes, and stretched out his hand to her across
the table. "Dear child, don't take everything so much to heart. You're making your life miserable--your
own, the boy's--and--yes, mine too. Take things easier. There! And now I'll read my paper at last."

Käte got up quietly--he was all right, he was reading. She had not given him her hand. His
calmness hurt her. It was more than calmness, it was indifference, slackness. But she would
not be slack, no, she would not get tired of doing her duty.

And she went after her boy.

Wolfgang was already upstairs in his room. But he had first crept softly up to Cilia, who was
drying the plates and dishes in the kitchen, from behind, had given her a pinch and then thrown
both arms round her and begged for a story: "Tell me something"--but she would not.

"I don't know anything."

"Oh, do tell me something. About the procession. Or even if it's only about your sow. How many
little ones did she have last time?"

"Thirteen." Cilia could not resist that question, but still she remained taciturn.

"Is your cow going to calve this year too? How many cows has the biggest farmer near you? You
know, the one down near the Warthe, Hauländer. Do tell me." He knew all about everything, knew
all the people at her home and all the cattle. He could never get tired of hearing about them
and about the country where the bells tinkle for matins and vespers or call with a deep, solemn
sound for high mass on Sundays. He was so very fond of hearing about the country, about the
large fields in which the blue flax and golden rye grow, about the bluish line of forest on
the horizon, about the wide, wide stretches of heath, where the bees buzz busily over the blooming
heather and the fen-fowls screech near the quiet waters in the evening, when the sky and the
sun are reflected red in them.

"Tell me about it," he begged and urged her.

But she was reluctant and shook her head. "No, go away; no, I won't. The mistress has been
looking at me like that again this evening--oh, like--no, I can't explain. I believe she's
going to give me notice."

He had crept up to his room in a sulk and undressed himself. He had grown so accustomed to
it that he could not sleep now when Cilia did not tell him something first. Then he fell into
such a quiet sleep, and dreamt so beautifully of wide stretches of heather covered with red
blossoms, and of quiet waters near which the fen-fowls screeched, which he went out to shoot.

Oh, that Cilia, what was the matter with her to-day? How stupid! "The mistress is going to
give me notice." Nonsense, as if he would stand that. And he clenched his hand.

Then the door creaked.

He craned his neck forward: was it she? Was she coming, after all? It was his mother. He slipped
hastily into bed and drew the covering up to his forehead. Let her think he was already asleep.

But she did not think so and said: "So you're still awake?" and she sat down on the chair near
his bed on which his things were. Cilia always sat there too. He compared the two faces in
silence. Oh, Cilia was much prettier, so white and red, and she had dimples in her fat cheeks
when she laughed, and she was so jolly. But his mother was not ugly either.

He looked at her attentively; and then suddenly a hitherto quite unknown feeling came over
him: oh, what narrow cheeks she had. And the soft hair near her temples--was--was----

"You're getting quite grey," he said all at once, quite dismayed, and stretched out his finger.
"There, quite grey."

She nodded. A look of displeasure lengthened her delicate face, and made it appear still narrower.

"You should laugh more," he advised. "Then people would never see you had wrinkles."

Wrinkles--oh yes, wrinkles. She passed her hand over her forehead nervously. What uncharitable
eyes children had. Youth and beauty had no doubt disappeared for ever--but it was this boy
who had deprived her of the last remnant of them. And it sounded like a reproach as she said:
"Sorrow has done that. Your serious illness and--and----" she hesitated: should she begin now
about what troubled her so?"--and many other things," she concluded with a sigh.

"I can understand that," he said naïvely. "You're so old, too."

Well, he was honest, she had to confess that; but he said it without a trace of tender feeling.
She could not suppress a slight irritation; it was not pleasant to be reminded of your age
by your child. "I'm not so old as all that," she said.

"Oh, I don't mean either that you're very old. But still much older than Cilia, for example."

She winced--he always brought in that person.

"Cilia is a pretty girl, don't you think so, mother?"

She got so angry that she lost control of herself. "Do you think so?" she said curtly, rising.
"She's leaving on the first of October."

"She's leaving? Oh no!" He stared at her incredulously.

"Yes, yes." She felt she was cruel, but could she be otherwise? His disbelieving tone expressed
such terror. "She's leaving. I'm going to give her notice."

"Oh no, you won't." He laughed. "You won't do that."

"Yes, I will." She emphasised each word; it sounded irrevocable.

He still shook his head incredulously: it could not be. But then he suddenly remembered Cilia's
depression and her words that evening: "I suppose she's going to give me notice." "No, you
shan't do so." He started up in bed.

"I shall not ask you."

"No, you shan't, you shan't," he cried. All at once Cilia moved across his mental vision, her
ingenuous eyes looked at him so sadly--he liked her so much--and she was to go? He was seized
with fury.

"She shan't go, she shan't go," he howled, and shouted it louder and louder: "She shan't go."
He was in a mad, indescribable frame of mind. He threw himself back, stretched himself out
and struck the bedstead with his feet, so that it creaked in all the joints.

Käte was terrified; she had never seen him so violent before. But how right she was. His behaviour
showed her that plainly. No, she must not call herself cruel even if his tears flowed; it was
necessary that Cilia went. But she was sorry for him.

"Wölfchen," she said persuasively, "why, Wölfchen. She tried to soothe him, and drew up his
cover that had fallen down with gentle hand. But as soon as she touched him he pushed her away.

"Wölfchen--Wölfchen--you with your Wölfchen! As if I were a baby still. My name is Wolfgang.
And you are unjust--envious--you only want her to go away because I like her better, much better
than you."

He shouted in her face, and she became deathly white. She felt as though she must scream with
pain. She who had suffered so much for his sake was of less account than Cilia in his opinion?
All at once she remembered all the burning and ineffaceable tears she had already shed for
his sake. And of all the hard hours during his illness none had been so hard as this one.

She forgot that he was still a child, a naughty boy. Had he not said himself: "I'm not a child
any longer"? His behaviour seemed unpardonable. She left the room without a word.

He followed her with eyes full of dismay: had he hurt her? All at once he was conscious that
he had done so--oh no, he did not want to do that. He had already got half out of bed to run
after her on his bare feet, to hold her fast by her dress and say: "Are you angry?"--when he
suddenly remembered Cilia again. No, it was too bad of her to tell her to go.

He wept as he crept under the bed-clothes and folded his hands. Cilia had told him he was to
pray to the Holy Virgin, to that smiling woman in the blue mantle covered with stars, who sits
on a throne over the altar with the crown on her head. She healed everything. And when she
asked God in Heaven for anything, He did it. He would pray to her now.

Cilia had once taken him to her church, when his mother was at the baths and his father in
the Tyrol. He had had to promise her not to tell anybody about it, and the charm of the secrecy
had increased the charm of the church. An unconscious longing drew him to those altars, where
the saints looked so beautiful and where you could see God incarnate, to whom he had been told
to pray as to a father. He had never liked the church so much which his mother sometimes went
to, and in which he had also been.

That longing, which had clung to him ever since like a fairy tale, now came over him forcibly
and vividly. Yes, it was beautiful to be able to kneel like that before the Holy Virgin, who
was lovelier than all women on earth, and hardly had you laid your request before her when
its fulfilment was insured. Splendid!

"Hail Mary!" Cilia's prayer began like that. He did not know any more, but he repeated the
words many times. And now he smelt the incense again, which had filled the whole church with
perfume, heard again the little bell announcing the transubstantiation, saw the Lord's anointed
with the splendid stole over his chasuble bow first to the left of the altar, then to the right.
Oh, how he envied the boys in their white surplices, who were allowed to kneel near him. Blessed
harmonies floated under the high, arched dome:

           "Procedenti ab utroque
            Compar sit laudatio----"

They had sung something like that. And then the priest had raised the gleaming monstrance on
high, and all the people had bowed deeply: Qui vivis et regnas in sæcula sæculorum. Yes, he
had remembered that Latin well. He would never forget it all his life.

Cilia had had to nudge him and whisper: "Come, we're going now," otherwise he would have remained
kneeling much longer in the magnificent and still cosy church, in which nothing was cold and
strange.

If only he could go there again. Cilia had certainly promised to take him if she found an opportunity--but
now she was to go away, and the opportunity would never come. What a pity. He was filled with
a great regret and defiance at the same time; no, he would not go to the church his mother
went to, and where the boys from his school went.

And he whispered again, "Hail, Mary!" and the hot and angry tears that had been running down
his cheeks ceased as he whispered it.

He had climbed out of his bed, and was kneeling by the side of it on the carpet, his clasped
hands raised in prayer, as he had seen the angels do in the altar-piece. His eyes sparkled
and were wide open, his defiance melted into fervour.

When he at last got into bed again, and his excessive fatigue had calmed his agitation and
he had fallen asleep, he dreamt of the beautiful Virgin Mary, whose features were well known
to him, and he felt his heart burn for her.

           *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *

It was a fortnight later, the first of October, that Cilla left her situation. Käte had given
her a good character; it was still not clear to the girl why she had been dismissed, even when
she stood in the street. The lady wanted an older, more experienced maid--that was what she
had said--but Cilia did not quite believe that, she felt vaguely that there was another reason:
she simply did not like her. She would go home for a short time before taking another situation,
she felt homesick, and it had been difficult for her to leave the place--on account of the
boy. How he had cried, even yesterday evening. He had hung on her neck and kissed her many
times like a little child, that big boy. And there was so much he still wanted to say to her.
They had been standing together upstairs in the dark passage, and then the mistress's step
as she came up the stairs had driven them away; he was just able to escape to his room.

And she had not even been able to say good-bye to him to-day, the good boy. For he had hardly
gone to school when her mistress said: "There, now you can go." She was quite taken aback,
for she had not reckoned on getting away before the afternoon. But the new housemaid, an elderly
person with a pointed face, had already come, so what was there for her to do? So all she had
done was to wrap up all the pictures of the saints she kept in her prayer-book quickly in paper,
and stick them into the drawer in the table that stood at the boy's bedside--he would be sure
to find them there--after she had written "Love from Cilia" on them. Then she had gone away.

Cilia had sent her basket on by goods train, and she had nothing to carry now but a little
leather bag and a cardboard box tied with string. So she could get on quickly. But on her way
to the station she stopped all at once: the school would be over at one o'clock, it was almost
eleven now, it really did not matter if she left somewhat later. How pleased he would be if
she said good-bye to him once more and begged him not to forget her.

She turned round. She would be sure to find a bench near the school, and there she would wait
for him.

The passers-by looked curiously at the young girl who had posted herself near the school like
a soldier, stiff and silent. Cilia had not found a bench; she dared not go far from the entrance
for fear of missing him. So she placed the cardboard box on the ground, and stood with her
little bag on her arm. Now and then she asked somebody what time it was. The time passed slowly.
At last it was almost one. Then she felt her heart beat: the good boy! In her thoughts she
could already see his dark eyes flash with joy, hear his amazed: "Cillchen! You?"

Cilia pushed her hat straight on her beautiful fair hair, and stared fixedly at the school-door
with a more vivid red on her red cheeks: the bell would soon ring--then he would come rushing
out--then--. All at once she saw the boy's mother. She? Frau Schlieben was approaching the
door with quick steps. Oh dear!

A few quick bounds brought her behind a bush: did she intend fetching her Wolfgang herself
to-day? Oh, then she would have to go. And she stole away to the station, full of grief. The
joy that had made her heart beat had all disappeared; but she still had one consolation: Wolfgang
would not forget her. No, never!

Wolfgang was much surprised to see his mother. Surely he need not be fetched? She had never
done that herself before. He was disagreeably impressed. Was he a baby? The others would make
fun of him. He felt very indignant, but his mother's kindness disarmed him.

She was specially tender that day, and very talkative. She inquired about everything they had
been doing at school, she did not even scold when he confessed he had had ten faults in his
Latin composition; on the contrary, she promised he should make an excursion to Schildhorn
that afternoon. It was such a beautiful, sunny autumn day, almost like summer. The boy sauntered
along beside her, quite content, dangling his books at the end of the long strap. He had quite
forgotten for the moment that Cilia was to leave that day.

But when they came home and the strange maid answered the door, he opened his eyes wide, and
when they sat down at table and the new girl with the pointed face, who did not look at all
like a servant, brought in the dishes, he could not contain himself any longer.

"Where's Cilia?" he asked.

"She has gone away--you know it," said his mother in a casual tone of voice.

"Away?" He turned pale and then crimson. So she had gone without saying good-bye to him! All
at once he had no appetite, although he had been so hungry before. Every mouthful choked him;
he looked stiffly at his plate--he dared not look up for fear of crying.

His parents spoke of this and that--all trivial matters--and a voice within him cried: "Why
has she gone without saying good-bye to me?" It hurt him very much. He could not understand
it--she was so fond of him. How could she have found it in her heart to go away without letting
him know where he could find her? His Cillchen to leave him like that! Oh, she could not have
done so--not of her own free will, oh no, no. And just when he was at school.

He was seized with a sudden suspicion: he had not thought of such a thing before, but now it
was clear to him--oh, he was not so stupid as all that--she had had to go just because he was
at school. His mother had never liked Cilia, and she had not wanted her to say good-bye to him.

The boy cast angry glances at his mother from under his lowered lashes: that was horrid of her.

He rose from the table full of suppressed wrath, and dragged his feet up the stairs to his
room. He found the pictures of the saints that had been stuck into his drawer at once--"With
love from Cilia"--and then he gave way to his fury and his grief. He stamped with his feet
and kissed the gaudy pictures, and his tears made lots of dark spots on them. Then he rushed
downstairs into the dining-room, where his father was still sitting at the table and his mother
packing cakes and fruit into her small bag. Oh, she had wanted to go for a walk with him. That
would be the very last thing he would do.

"Where has Cilia gone? Why haven't you let her say good-bye to me?"

His mother gazed at him, petrified; how did the boy guess her innermost thoughts? She could
not utter a word. But he did not let her speak either, his boy's voice, which was still high,
cracked and then became deep and hoarse: "Yes, you--oh, I know it quite well--you did not want
her to say good-bye to me. You've sent her away so that I should not see her any more--yes,
you! That's horrid of you! That's--that's vile!" He went towards her.

She shrank back slowly--he raised his hands--was he going to strike her?

"You rascal!" His father's hand seized him by the scruff of his neck. "How dare you? Raise
your hand against your mother?" The angry man shook the boy until his teeth chattered, and
did so again and again. "You--you rascal, you good-for-nothing!"

"She didn't let her say good-bye to me," the boy screamed as an answer. "She's sent her away
because--because----"

"You still dare to speak to----"

"Yes! Why didn't she let Cilia say good-bye to me? She never did anything to her. I loved her
and it was for that, only for that----"

"Silence!" He gave the boy a violent blow on the mouth. The man no longer recognised himself;
his calmness had abandoned him, the boy's obstinacy made him lose his temper. How he struggled
against the hand that was holding him, how he stared at him with his bold eyes. How dared he
shout at him like that? "You"--he shook him--"so you are so insolent? So ungrateful? What would
have become of you? You would have died in misery--yes--it's she who has made something out
of you--who picked you up out of----"

"Paul!" His wife's scream interrupted the man. Käte seized hold of his arm as though she were
out of her mind: "No, no, leave him. You are not to--no!" She held her hand in front of his
mouth. And when he pushed her away angrily and seized hold of the boy more firmly, she tore
him away from him and pressed his head against her dress as if to protect him. She held her
hand before his ears. Her face was deathly white, and, turning her dilated eyes to her husband,
she implored him full of terror: "Not a word! I beseech you, I beseech you!"

The man's anger had not yet cooled. Käte must really have lost her senses. Why did she take
the boy away from the punishment he so richly deserved? He approached the boy once more with
a hard: "Well, really, Käte I'm not going to condone this."

Then she fled with him to the door and pushed him outside, bolted it and then placed herself
in front of it, as though to bar her husband's egress.

Now Wolfgang had gone. They were both alone now, she and her husband, and with a cry full of
reproach: "You had almost betrayed it to him," she tottered to the sofa. She fell rather than
sat down on it, and broke out in hopeless weeping.

Paul Schlieben strode up and down the room. He had indeed almost allowed himself to be carried
away by his indignation. But would it have been a misfortune if he had told the boy about it?
Let him know where he came from, and that he had nothing, really nothing whatever to do there.
That he received everything as a favour. It was absolutely unnecessary--in fact, more prejudicial
than desirable--to keep it a secret from him. But if she would not allow it on any account!

He interrupted his walk to and fro, remained standing before his wife, who was weeping in the
corner of the sofa, and looked down at her. He felt so extremely sorry for her. That was the
reward for all her kindness, her unselfishness, for all her devotion! He laid his hand softly
on her drooping head without saying a word.

Then she started up suddenly and caught hold of his hand: "And don't do anything to him, please.
Don't hit him. It's my fault--he guessed it. I did not like her, I gave her notice, and then
I sent her away secretly--only because he loved her, only for that reason. I feared her. Paul,
Paul"--she wrung her hands repentantly--"oh, Paul, I stand abashed before the child, I stand
abashed before myself."

Wolfgang was sitting huddled up in his room, holding the pictures of the saints in his hand.
Those were now his most costly, his only possessions; a precious memory. Where could she be
now? Still in the Grunewald? Already in Berlin? Or much further? Oh, how he longed for her.
He missed the friendly face that was always smiling secretly at him, and his longing for her
increased until he could not bear it any longer. There was no one there who loved him as she
did whom he loved as he had loved her.

Now that Cilia was gone he forgot that he had often laughed at her and played tricks on her,
and had also quarrelled with her in a boyish manner. His longing for her grew and grew, and
her figure grew as well. It became so large and so strong, so powerful that it took his eyes
away from everything else that still surrounded him. He threw himself on the carpet and dug
his fingers into it; he had to hold himself in that manner, otherwise he would have broken
everything to bits, everything, big and small.

That was his father's step on the stairs. He shook the door-handle. Let him shake it. Wolfgang
had locked himself in.

"Open at once!"

Ah, now he was to have a whipping. Wolfgang wiped his tears away hastily, gnashed his teeth
and closed his lips tightly.

"Well, are you soon going to do it?" The handle was shaken louder and louder.

Then he went and opened it. His father stepped in. Not with the stick the boy expected to see
in his hand, but with anger and grief written on his brow.

"Come down at once. You have hurt your poor, good--much too good--mother very much. Come to
her and ask her pardon. Show her that you are sorry; do you hear? Come."

The boy did not move. He stared past his father into space with an unutterably unhappy, but
at the same time obstinate expression on his face.

"You are to come--don't you hear? Your mother is waiting."

"I'm not coming," Wolfgang muttered; he hardly opened his lips at all.

"What?" The man stared at the boy without speaking, quite dismayed at so much audacity.

The boy returned his look, straight and bold. His young face was so pale that his dark eyes
appeared still darker, a dense black.

"Bad eyes," said the man to himself. And suddenly a suspicion took possession of him, a suspicion
that was old and long forgotten, but still had slumbered in the recesses of his heart in spite
of everything and had now all at once been roused again, and he seized hold of the boy, gripped
hold of his chest so tightly that he made no further resistance.

"Boy! Rascal! Have you no heart? She who has done so much for you, she, she is waiting for
you and you, you won't come? On your knees, I say. Go on in front--ask her pardon. At once."
And he seized the boy, who showed no emotion whatever, by the scruff of his neck instead of
by his chest, and shoved him along in front of him down the stairs and into the room where
Käte was sitting buried in her grief, her eyes red with weeping.

"Here's somebody who wants to beg your pardon," said the man, pushing the boy down in front of her.

Wolfgang would have liked to cry out: "No, I won't beg her pardon, and especially not now"--and
then all at once he felt so sorry for her. Oh, she was just as unhappy as he--they did not
suit each other, that was it. This knowledge came to him all at once, and it deepened his glance
and sharpened the features of his young face so much that he looked old beyond his years.

He jerked out with a sob: "Beg your pardon." He did not hear himself how much agony was expressed
in his voice, he hardly felt either that her arms lifted him up, that he lay on her breast
for some moments and she stroked his hair away from his burning brow. It was as if he were
half unconscious; he only felt a great emptiness and a vague misery.

As in a dream he heard his father say: "There, that's right. Now go and work. And be a better
boy." And his mother's soft voice: "Yes, he's sure to be that." He went upstairs as though
he were walking in his sleep. He was to work now--why? What was the object? Everything was
so immaterial to him. It was immaterial whether these people praised or blamed him--what did
it matter to him what they did? On the whole he did not like being there any longer, he did
not want to stay there any more--no, no! He shook himself as though with loathing.

Then he stood a long time on one spot, staring into space. And gradually a large, an immeasurable
expanse appeared before his staring eyes--cornfields and heather in bloom, heather in which
the sun sets, quiet waters near which a lonely bird is calling, and over all the solemn, beautiful
sound of bells. He must go there. He stretched out his arms longingly, the eyes that were swollen
with weeping flashed.

If they were to keep him with them, keep hold of him! No, they could not hold him. He must
go there.

He crept nearer to the window as though drawn there. It was high up, too high for a jump, but
he would get down nevertheless. He could not go down the stairs of course, they would hear
him--but like this, ah, like this.

Kneeling on the window-sill he groped about with his feet to find the water-pipe that ran down
the whole side of the house close to the window. Ah, he felt it. Then he slid down from the
sill, only hanging on to it by the tips of his fingers, dangled in the air for a few moments,
then got the water-pipe between his knees, let go of the window-sill altogether, grasped hold
of the pipe and slid down it quickly and noiselessly.

He looked round timidly: nobody had seen him. There was nobody in the street, and there were
only a few people walking in the distance. He bent his head and crept past the windows on the
ground-floor--now he was in the garden behind the bushes--now over the hedge his trousers slit,
that did not matter--now he looked back at the house with a feeling of wild triumph. He stood
in the waste field, in which no houses had been built as yet, stood there hidden behind an
elderberry-bush, of which he had planted the first shoot years before as a child. He did not
feel the slightest regret. He rushed away into the sheltering wood like a wild animal that
hears shots.

He ran and ran, ran even when it was not necessary to run any more. He did not stop until complete
exhaustion forced him to do so. He had run straight across the wood without following any path;
now he no longer knew where he was. But he was far away, so much was certain. He had not got
so far into the wood on his robber expeditions with his play-fellows, and, in his walks, had
never gone into the parts where there were no paths whatever and where it was quite lonely.
He could rest a little now in peace.

He threw himself on the ground, where the sand showed nothing but fine grass and some bracken
in small hollows. Trees in which there was not the slightest motion towered above him all around,
like slender pillars that seemed to support the heavens.

He lay there for some time on his back, and let his blood, which was coursing through his veins
like mad, cool down. He thought he could hear his heart throb quite distinctly, although he
could not account for it--oh, it was pounding and stabbing so unpleasantly in his breast; he
had never felt it do like that before. But he had never run like that before, at any rate since
his illness. He had to fight for air, he thought he was going to choke. But at last he was
able to breathe again more comfortably; now he had not to distend his nostrils and pant for
breath any more. He could enjoy the feeling of ease and comfort that gradually came over him now.

It was not yet dusk when he set out again, but still the light began to show that it was October.
There was a sweet softness, something extremely gentle and glorified about the sunshine that
fell through the red branches of the pines, which also softened the wild runaway. He went in
a dream--whither? He did not know, he did not think of it either, he only walked on and on,
in pursuit of a longing that drew him on irresistibly, that fluttered in front of him and cooed
and called like a dove seeking her nest. And the dove's wings were stronger than the wings
of an eagle.

There were no people where the longing flew. It was so peaceful and quiet there. Not even his
foot made any noise as it sank into the moss and short grass. The pines stood in the glow of
the setting sun like slender lighted candles. No autumn leaves lay on the ground in which the
wind might have rustled; the air swept noiselessly over the smooth pine-needles and the colourless
cones that had dropped down from the tree-tops.

Wolfgang had never known it was so beautiful there. He looked round with amazed delight. It
had never seemed so beautiful before. But it was not like this, of course, where the villas
were and the roads. His eyes glanced curiously now to the right, now to the left and then in
front of him into the twilight of the wood. There, where the last gold of the setting sun did
not cling to the cleft bark like red blood and the light did not penetrate, there was a soft
mysterious dusk, in which the mossy dark-green stems gleamed nevertheless. And there was a
perfume there, so moist and cool, so pungent and fresh, that the boy drew a deep breath as
though a weight had been lifted from his chest and a new strength ran through his veins.

The memory of all he had gone through during the day came back to Wolfgang now in the deep
calm. He pressed his hands to his hot forehead--ah, now he noticed he had not even a cap on.
But what did that matter? He was free, free! He hurried on, shouting with glee, and then he
got terrified at the sound of his own loud voice: hush, be quiet! Let him only not be shut
up again, let him be free, free!

He did not feel any more longing now. He was filled with a great repose, with a boundless happiness.
His eyes sparkled--he opened them wide--he could not stare enough at the world, it was as though
he saw it for the first time to-day. He ran up to the trunks that seemed to be supporting the
heavens, and threw both arms round them; he pressed his face against the resinous bark. Was
it not soft? Did it not cling to his glowing cheek like a caressing hand?

He threw himself down on the moss and stretched his limbs and tossed from side to side in high
glee, and then jumped up again--he did not like being there, after all--he must look about,
enjoy his liberty.

A single red stripe over the wood that was turning blue still showed where the sun had been,
when he became conscious of his actual whereabouts for the first time. Here the former high-road
from Spandau to Potsdam had been; ruddy brown and yellow chestnuts formed an avenue through
the desolate country. The sand lay a foot deep in the ruts that were seldom used now. Ah, from
here you came to Potsdam or Spandau, according to the road you took--alas, could you not already
hear cocks crowing and a noise as of wheels turning slowly?

Deciding quickly, the boy turned off from the old high-road to the left, crept through a bent
barbed wire fence, that was to protect a clearing which had lately been replanted, bounded
like a stag over the small plants that were hardly a hand's-breadth high, and looked out for
a cover.

He did not require any, nobody came there. He walked more slowly between the small trees; he
took care not to tread on them, stooped down and examined them, measured them out by steps
as a farmer does his furrows.

And all at once it was evening. A mist had crept over the earth, light and hardly visible at
first, then it had risen and increased in size, had slipped across the piece of clearing on
the night wind that was coming up, and had hung on to each gnarl like the beckoning veils of
spectres.

But Wolfgang was not afraid; he did not feel any terror. What could happen to him there, where
the distant whistle of a train was only heard at intervals, and where the wind carried the
smoke it had torn away from the locomotive like a light cloud that rapidly vanishes?

Just as if you were on the prairie, on the steppes, the boy thought to himself, where there
are no longer any huts and only the camp fires send their little bit of smoke up as a token.
A certain love of adventure was mingled with the bliss of being free. He had always wished
to camp out. Of course he would not be able to light a fire and cook by it; he had nothing
to do it with. But he did not feel hungry. There was only one thing he needed now, to sleep
long and soundly.

He lay down without hesitating. The ground was already cool, but his clothes were thick and
prevented the cold from penetrating. He made a sort of pillow for his head, and lay with his
face turned towards the evening sky. Pale stars gradually appeared on it, and smiled down at him.

He had thought he would fall asleep at once, he felt tired out, but he lay a long time with
open eyes. An inexplicable sensation kept him awake: this was too beautiful, too beautiful,
it was like a splendid dream. Golden eyes protected him, a velvety mantle enveloped him, a
mother rocked him gently.

Longing, defiance, pain, fury, everything that hurt had disappeared. Only happiness remained
in this infinite peace.

CHAPTER XII

Frida Lãmke had now been confirmed. She wore a dress that almost touched the ground, and when
she saw Wolfgang Schlieben for the first time after a long interval, her greeting was no longer
the familiar nod of childhood. But she stopped when she came up to her former play-fellow.

"Hallo, Wolfgang," she said, laughing, and at the same time a little condescendingly--she felt
so infinitely superior to him--"well, how are you getting along?"

"All right." He put on a bold air which did not exactly suit the look in his eyes.

She examined him; what a fine fellow Wolfgang had grown. But he held himself so badly, he bent
forward so. "Hold yourself up, for goodness' sake," she exhorted, and she straightened her
own rush-like figure. "Why do you make such a round back? And you blink your eyes as if you
were short-sighted. Hm, you should be with my employer--oh my, she would make you sit up."
She chuckled to herself, her whole slender figure shook with a secret inclination to laugh.

"You're so happy," he said slowly.

"Well, why shouldn't I be? Do you think such an old dragon can spoil my good humour? Come,
that would be stupid. When she scolds I lower my head, I don't say a word, but I laugh to myself.
Ha ha!" Her clear voice sounded very gay.

How pretty she was. The boy's dark eyes were fixed on Frida Lämke as though he had never seen
her before. The sun was shining on her fair hair, which she no longer wore in a long plait,
but in a thick knot at the back of her head. Her face was so round, so blooming.

"You never come to see me now," he said.

"How can I?" She shrugged her shoulders and assumed an air of importance. "What do you think
I have to do? Into town with the car before eight in the morning, and then only two hours for
my dinner always in and out and in the evening I'm hardly ever at home before ten, often still
later. Then I'm so tired, I sleep as sound as a top. But on Sundays mother lets me sleep as
long as I like, and in the afternoon I go out with Artur and Flebbe. We----"

"Where do you go?" he asked hastily. "I could go with you some time."

"Oh, you!" She laughed at him. "You mayn't, you know."

"No." He bowed his head.

"Come, don't look so glum," she said encouragingly, stroking his chin with her fore-finger,
and disclosing a hole in her shabby kid glove. "You go to college, you see. Artur is to be
apprenticed too, next autumn. Mother thinks to a hairdresser. And Flebbe is already learning
to be a grocer--his father can afford to do that--who knows? perhaps he may have a shop of
his own in time."

"Yes," said Wolfgang in a monotonous voice, breaking into her chatter. He stood in the street
as though lost in thought, his books pressed under his arm. Oh, how far, far this girl, all
three of them, had gone from him all at once. Those three, with whom he had once played every
day, whose captain he had always been, were already so big, and he, he was still a silly school-boy.

"Oh, hang it all!" He hurled his pile of books away from him with a violent gesture, so that
the strap that held them together came undone. All the books and exercise-books flew apart,
and lay spread out in the dust of the street.

"Oh dear, Wölfchen!" Frida stooped down, quite terrified, and gathered them all up.

He did not help her to collect them. He stared in front of him with an angry look.

"There--now you've got them again," said the girl, who had grown quite red with stooping so
busily. She blew off the dust and pressed them under his arm again.

"I don't want them." He let them fall again.

"Hm, you're a nice fellow. What can you be thinking of?--those expensive books." She felt really
quite angry with him. "Don't you know that they cost money?"

"Pooh!" He made a gesture as if to say, what did that matter? "Then some new ones will be bought."

"Even if your father has sufficient money," she said, firing up, "it's still not right of you
to treat these good books like that."

He did not say a word to that, but took them up and fastened the strap round them again. They
stood together, both feeling embarrassed. She glanced sideways at him: how he had changed.
And he felt vexed that he had got into a passion: what would she think of him now?

"I shall have to go now," she said all at once, "or I shan't even get my dinner eaten ugh,
how hungry I am!" She put her hand on her stomach. "How good it'll taste! Mother has potatoes
in their jackets and herrings to-day."

"I shall go too." Suiting his step to hers he trotted beside her as she tripped hastily along.

She got quite red: what would her mother say if she brought Wolfgang with her? No, that would
really not do, this was just the day when their room had not been tidied. And she had told
a fib too: there were no herrings, only onion sauce with the potatoes in their jackets.

She felt ashamed that Wolfgang should find it out.

"No, you go home," she said, intrenching herself behind a pout. "As you've not been to see
us for so long, you needn't come to-day either. I'm angry with you."

"Angry with me--me? What have I done? I wasn't allowed to come to you, I mightn't--that's not
my fault, surely. Frida!"

She commenced to run, her face quite scarlet; he ran beside her. "Frida! Frida, surely you
can't be angry with me? Oh, Frida, don't be angry. Frida, let me go with you. At last I've
met you, and then you behave like this?"

There was sorrow in his voice. She felt it, but she was angry all the same: why should he cling
to her like that? Flebbe would not like it at all. And so she said in a pert voice: "We don't
suit each other and never shall. You go with your young ladies. You belong to them."

"Say that once more--dare to do it!" He shouted in a rough voice, and raised his hand as though
he would strike her. "Affected creatures, what are they to me?"

He was right--she had to confess it in her heart--he had never taken any notice of the young
girls who lived in the villas around him. She knew very well that he preferred them to them
all, and her vanity felt flattered; she said soothingly, but at the same time evasively: "No,
Wölfchen, you can't go with me any more, it's not proper any more." And she held out her hand:
"Good-bye, Wolfgang."

They were among the bushes in a small public garden in which there were benches, the villas
lying at a good distance from it, quite hidden behind their front gardens. There was nobody
in sight in the quiet radiance of the noonday sun. But even if somebody had come, it would
not have made any difference; he seized hold of her with both hands in a kind of rage. "I am
going with you--I shall not let you go."

She resisted forcibly: what was the stupid boy thinking of? "Let me go," she said, spitting
at him like a little cat, "will you let me go at once? You hurt me. Just you wait, I'll tell
Flebbe about it, he'll be after you. Leave me in peace."

He did not let her go. He held her clasped in his arms without saying a word, his books were
again lying in the dust.

Did he want to kiss or strike her? She did not know; but she was afraid of him and defended
herself as best she could. "You runaway!" she hissed, "hm, you're a nice one. Runs away from
home, hides himself in the wood. But they got you all the same--and it served you right."

All at once he let her go; she stood in front of him mocking him. She could easily have run
away now, but she preferred to stand there and scold him: "You runaway!"

He got very red and hung his head.

"How could you think of doing such a thing?" she continued with a certain cruelty. "So silly.
Everybody laughed at you. We positively could not believe it at first. Well I never, said I,
the boy runs away without money, without a cap, without a piece of bread in his pocket. You
wanted to go to America like that, I suppose, eh?" She eyed him from top to toe and then threw
her head back and laughed loudly: "To think of doing such a thing."

He did not raise his head, only murmured half to himself: "You shouldn't laugh at it, no, you
shouldn't."

"Come, what next? Cry, perhaps? What does it matter to me? Your mother cried enough about it,
and your father ran about as if he were crazy. All the rangers in the district were on their
legs. Tell me, didn't you get a good thrashing when they dragged you home by the collar?"

"No." He suddenly raised his head and looked straight into the eyes that were sparkling a little
maliciously.

There was something in his glance--a mute reproach--that compelled her to lower her lids.

"They didn't beat me--I wouldn't have stood it either--no, they didn't beat me."

"Shut you up?" she asked curiously.

He did not answer; what was he to say? No, they had not shut him up, he might go about as he
liked in the house and garden, in the street, to school--and still, still he was not free.

Tears suddenly started to his eyes. "You--you shouldn't--shouldn't taunt me--Frida," he cried,
stammering and faltering. "I'm so--so----"

He wanted to say "unhappy"; but the word seemed to mean too little and in another way too much.
And he felt ashamed of saying it aloud. So he stood silent, colouring up to the eyes. And only
his tears, which he could not restrain any longer, rolled down his cheeks and fell into the
dust of the street.

They were tears of sorrow and of rage. It was already more than six months ago--oh, even longer--but
it still enraged him as though it had happened the day before. He had never forgotten for a
moment that they had caught him so easily. They had found him so soon, at daybreak, ere the
sun had risen on a new day. And they had carried him home in triumph. What he had looked upon
as a great deed, an heroic deed, was a stupid boy's trick to them. His mother had certainly
cried a good deal, but his father had only pulled his ear: "Once, but not more, my son. Remember
that."

Wolfgang was crying quietly but bitterly. Frida stood in front of him, watching him cry, and
suddenly her eyes filled with tears as well--she had always been his good friend. Now she cried
with him.

"Don't cry, Wölfchen," she sobbed. "It isn't so bad. People don't remember anything more about
it--such things are forgotten. You certainly need not feel ashamed of it--why should you? There's
no harm in your having frightened your people a little for once in a way. Simply say to them:
'Then I'll run away again,' if they won't let you come to us. Come next Sunday afternoon. Then
I won't go with Artur and Flebbe--no, I'll wait for you."

She wiped her own tears away with the one hand and his with the other.

They stood thus in the bright sunshine amidst the flowering bushes. The lilac spread its fragrance
around; a red may and a laburnum strewed their beautifully coloured petals over them, shaken
by the soft wind of May. The dark and the light head were close to each other.

"Frida," he said, seizing hold of her hand firmly, as though clinging to it, "Frida, are you
still fond of me, at any rate?"

"Of course." She nodded, and her clear merry laugh was heard once more, although there were
still traces of tears on her face. "That would be a nice sort of friendship, if it disappeared
so quickly. There!" She pursed up her mouth and gave him a kiss.

He looked very embarrassed; she had never given him a kiss before.

"There!" She gave him another one. "And now be happy again, my boy. It's such beautiful weather."

           *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *

"You're late to-day," said his mother, when Wolfgang came home from school at two instead of
at one o'clock. "You've not been kept, I hope?"

A feeling of indignation rose in him: how she supervised him. The good temper in which his
friend Frida had put him had disappeared; the chains galled him again. But he still thought
a good deal of Frida. When he was doing his lessons in the afternoon, her head with its thick
knot of hair would constantly appear behind his desk, and bend over his book and interrupt
him; but it was a pleasant interruption. What a pity that Frida had so little time now. How
nice it had been when they were children. He had always been most fond of her; he had been
able to play better with her than with the two boys, she had always understood him and stuck
to him--alas!

He felt as though he must envy, from the bottom of his heart, the boy who had been the captain
when they played at robbers in those days and roasted potatoes in the ashes, nay, even the
boy who had once been so ill that they had to wheel him in a bath-chair the first time he went
out into the open air. The boy who sat at the desk now, staring absently into space over the
top of his exercise-book, was no longer the same. He was no longer a child. All at once it
seemed to Wolfgang as though a golden time had gone for ever and lay far behind him, as though
there were no pleasures in store for him. Had not the clergyman who was preparing him for confirmation
also said: "You are no longer children"? And had he not gone on to say: "You will soon have
your share of life's gravity"? Alas, he already had it.

Wolfgang sat with knit brows, the chewed end of his penholder between his teeth, disinclined
to work. He was brooding. All manner of thoughts occurred to him that he had never had before;
all at once words came into his mind that he had never thought of seriously before. Why did
the boys in his form constantly ask him such strange questions? They asked about his parents--well,
was there anything peculiar about them?--and then they exchanged glances among themselves and
looked at him so curiously. What was so funny about him? Lehmann was the most curious--and
so cheeky. Quite lately he had blinked at him sideways so slyly, and puffed up his cheeks as
though they must burst with laughter when he made the specially witty remark: "I'll be hanged
if I can see any likeness between you and your governor!" Was he really not like his father
or his mother? Not like either of them?

When Wolfgang undressed that evening, he stood a long time in front of the looking-glass that
hung over his washstand, with a light in his hand, holding it first to the right, then to the
left, then higher, then lower. A bright light fell on his face. The glass was good, and reflected
every feature faithfully on its clear surface--but there was no resemblance whatever between
his big nose and his mother's fine one. His father's nose was also quite different. And neither
of his parents had such a broad forehead with hair growing far down on it, and such brows that
almost met. His father had certainly dark eyes, but they did not resemble those he saw in the
glass, that were so black that even the light from the candle, which he held quite close, could
not make them any lighter.

At last the boy turned away with a look full of doubt. And still there was something that resembled
a slight feeling of relief in the sigh he now uttered. If he were so little like them externally,
need he wonder then that his thoughts and feelings were often so quite, quite different from
theirs?

It was strange how the boys at school were an exact copy of their parents; and how the big
boys were still tied to their mothers' apron-strings. There was Kullrich, for example; he had
been away for a fortnight because his mother had died, and when he came to school again for
the first time--with a black band round his coat-sleeve--the whole form went almost crazy.
They treated him as though he were a raw egg, and spoke quite low, and nobody made a joke.
And when the passage, When my father and my mother forsake me, then the Lord will take me up,
happened to occur in the Bible-lessons, in which Kullrich also took part, they all looked at
him as though at the word of command, and Kullrich laid his head down on his Bible, and did
not raise it again during the whole lesson. Afterwards the master went up to him and spoke
a long time to him, and laid his hand on his head.

That was already a long time ago, but Kullrich was still not happy. When they all walked in
the playground during the interval, eating their bread and butter, he stood at some distance
and did not eat. Was it really so hard to lose one's mother?

There was a wonderful moon shining over the silent pines that night; the boy lay half out of
the window for a long, long time. His eyes were burning: his thoughts buzzed in his head like
a swarm of gnats that whirl round and round and up and down in the air like a cloud. Where
did they come from all at once?

He exposed his hot forehead, his chest, from which his nightshirt had slipped, to the cool
night air in May--ah, that did him good. That was the best, the only thing that soothed, that
gave peace. Oh, how delightful the air was, so pure, so fresh.

Where could Cilia be now? he wondered. He had never heard anything more about her, She was
where he would like to have been--oh, how he would have liked it. Something that resembled
the sound of bells came floating along, and he stretched out his arms and bent further and
further out of the window.

Wolfgang had such a vivid dream about Cilia that night that when he awoke he thought she was
standing at his bedside, that she had not left him yet. But after he had rubbed his eyes, he
saw that the spot on which she had just been standing smiling so pleasantly was empty.

After school was over he had to go to the Bible-lesson; he was to be confirmed the following
Easter. True, he was still young, but Paul Schlieben had said to his wife: "He is so developed
physically. We can't have him confirmed when he is outwardly, at any rate, a grown-up man.
Besides, his age is just right. It is much better for him if he does not begin to reflect first."

Did he not reflect already? It often seemed to Käte as if the boy evaded her questions, when
she asked him about the Bible-lesson. Did his teacher not understand how to make an impression
on him? Dr. Baumann was looked upon as an excellent theologian, everybody rushed to hear his
sermons; to be allowed to join his confirmation classes, that were always so crowded, was a
special favour; all his pupils raved about him, people who had been confirmed by him ten, fifteen
years before, still spoke of it as an event in their lives.

Käte made a point of going to hear this popular clergyman's sermons very often. Formerly she
had only gone to church at Christmas and on Good Friday, now she went almost every Sunday to
please her boy, for he had to go now. They left the house together every Sunday, drove to church
together, sat next to each other; but whilst she thought: "How clever, how thought-out, what
fervour, surely he must carry a youthful mind away with him"? Wolfgang thought: "If only it
were over!" He felt bored. And his soul had never soared there as when the little bell rang
when the monstrance had been raised, when he had smelt the odour of incense before dim altars.

There was something in him that drove him to the church he had once visited with Cilia. When
he went to the Bible-class he had to pass close by it; but even if the road had been longer,
he would still have made it possible to go there. Only to stand a few minutes, a few seconds
in a corner, only to draw his breath once or twice in that sweet, mysterious, soothing air
laden with incense. He always found the church door open; and then when he stepped out again
into the noise of Berlin, he went through the streets with their hurry and their rush like
one come from another world. After that he did not take any notice of what he was told about
the doctrines and the history of the Church--what were Martin Luther, Calvin and other reformers
to him? His soul had been caught, his thoughts submerged in a feeling of gloomy faith.

Thus the summer and winter passed. When the days grew longer, and the mild warmth of the sun
promised to dry up all the moisture winter had left behind ere long, Paul Schlieben had his
villa cleaned and painted. It was to put on a festive garment for their son's great day, too.

The white house looked extremely pretty with its red roofs and green shutters, as it peeped
out from behind the pines; there would almost have been something rustic about it, had it not
been for the large plate-glass windows and the conservatory, with its palms and flowering azaleas,
that had lately been built on. Friedrich was sowing fresh grass in the garden, and an assistant
was tidying up the flower-beds; they were digging and hoeing everywhere. The sparrows were
chirping noisily, bold and happy; but strips of paper tied to long pieces of string and stretched
across the lawns that had just been sown fluttered in the purifying wind and frightened the
impudent birds away from the welcome food. All the gardens were waking up. The stems of the
roses had not yet been released from their coverings, in which they looked like a chrysalis
made of straw, but the young shoots had appeared on the fruit-trees, and the spurge-laurel
made a fine show with its peach-coloured blossoms. Perambulators painted white and sky-blue
were being driven up and down the street, the baby inside was already peeping out from behind
the curtains, and little feet tripped along by the side. Nurses and children came out of all
the doors, the boys with hoops, the girls with their balls in a knitted net. Giggling young
girls went off to tennis, and big boys from the third form made love to them.

Brightness and gaiety everywhere. There was a glad excited rustling in the tops of the pines,
and the sap rose and fell in the willows along the shores of the lake. A flight of starlings
passed over the Grunewald colony, and each bird looked down and chose in which box on the tall
pine stems it would prefer to nest.

The new suit of clothes--black trousers and coat--Wolfgang was to wear at his confirmation
lay spread out on his bed upstairs. Now he was to try it on.

Käte was filled with a strange emotion, and her pulse quickened as she helped him to put on
his new suit. So far he had always been dressed like a boy, in knickers and a sailor blouse,
now he was to be dressed like a man all at once. The festive black suit of fine cloth did not
suit him; for the first time one noticed that he was thick-set. He stood there stiffly, he
felt cramped in the trousers, the coat was uncomfortable, too: he looked miserable.

"Look at yourself, just look at yourself," said Käte, pushing him in front of the glass.

He looked into it. But he did not see the clothes, he only saw his mother's face as she looked
into the glass at the same time as he, and he saw they had not a single feature in common.

"We're not a bit alike," he murmured.

"Hm? What did you say?" She had not understood him.

He did not answer.

"Don't you like the suit?"

"It's awful!" And then he stared at himself absently. What had they been saying again that
morning? They had been jeering at him, Lehmann and von Kesselborn, who were to be confirmed
with him. Was it because their fathers were not so rich as his? Kesselborn's father was a retired
officer, who now filled the post of registrar, but Kesselborn was terribly proud of his "von";
and Lehmann was his bosom friend. However, he had told them that he had already had a silver
watch since he was eight years old, and that he was to have a real gold one for his confirmation,
which he would then wear every day--that had vexed them awfully.

It was before the lesson had commenced--they were all three
waiting--and Kesselborn had suddenly said: "Schlieben gives himself
airs," and had then turned to him and said: "You needn't be so
stuck-up." And then Lehmann had added, also quite loudly so that
everybody must have heard it: "Don't put on so much side, we know all
 about it."

"What do you know?" He had wanted to jump on Lehmann like a tiger, but the clergyman had just
then come in and they began prayers. And when the lesson, of which he had hardly heard anything--he
heard the other words all the time--was over, he had wanted to tackle Kesselborn and Lehmann,
but they had been sitting near the door, and had already gone before he could get out of his
bench. He did not see them again. But he noticed glances in which there was a certain curiosity
and spitefulness--or did he only imagine it? He was not quite sure about it, and he had not
thought any more about it either. But now when he saw his mother's face so close to his in
the glass, he suddenly remembered it all again. And it all came back to him, plumped like a
stone into his thoughts.

"I'm not at all like you," he said once more. And then he watched her face: "Not like father
either."

"Oh yes," she said hastily, "you are very much like your father."

"Not the slightest bit."

Her face had flamed, and then he noticed that she suddenly turned pale. Then she laughed, but
there was something forced in her laugh. "There are many children who hardly resemble their
parents at all--that has nothing to do with the matter."

"No, but----" All at once he stopped and frowned, as he always did when he exerted himself
to think. And he shot such sharp, such suspicious, such scrutinising glances at the glass under
his knit brows that Käte involuntarily moved aside, so that her head could not be seen near
his in the glass any more.

She was seized with a sudden fear: what did he mean? Had he spoken like that intentionally,
or had he said it quite unconsciously? What had they said to him? What did he know?

Her hands that had found something to do to his clothes--she was on her knees pulling down
his trousers--were full of nervous haste, and were pulling here, pulling there, and trembling.

He was not looking into the glass now, he was gazing at the kneeling woman with an indefinable
look. As a rule, his face had not much expression and was neither handsome nor ugly, neither
fine nor insignificant--it was still a smooth, immature boy's face without a line on it--but
now there was something in it, something doubting, restless, which made it appear older, which
drew furrows on his forehead and lines round his mouth. Thoughts seemed to be whirling round
behind that lowered brow; the broad nostrils quivered slightly, the trembling lips were pressed
tightly together.

A deep silence reigned in the room. The mother did not utter a word, nor did the son. The birds
were twittering outside, even the faintest chirp could be heard as well as the soft rustling
of the spring wind in the tops of the pines.

Käte rose slowly from her knees. She found difficulty in getting up, all her limbs felt as
if they were paralysed. She stretched out her hand gropingly, caught hold of the nearest piece
of furniture and helped herself up.

"You can take it off again now," she said in a low voice.

He was already doing so, visibly glad at being able to throw off the clothes he was so unused to.

She would have liked so much to say something to him, something quite unimportant--only to
speak, speak--but she felt so strangely timid. It was as though he might say to her: "What
have I to do with you, woman?" And her fear kept her silent.

He had taken off his new suit now, and was standing before her showing his broad chest, which
the unbuttoned shirt had left exposed, his strong legs, from which the stockings had slipped
down, and all his big-boned, only half-clothed robustness. She averted her glance--what a big
fellow he was already!--but then she looked at him again almost immediately: why should a mother
feel shy at looking at her child? A mother?

Her eyes flickered. As she walked to the door she said, without turning her head to him again:
"I'm going down now. You'll be able to finish without me, no doubt."

He mumbled something she could not understand. And then he stood a long time, half dressed
as he was, and stared into the glass, as though the pupils of his eyes could not move.

The day of his confirmation drew near; it was to take place on Palm Sunday. Dr. Baumann had
laid the importance of the step they were about to take very clearly before the boys' eyes.
Now a certain feeling of solemnity took the place of Wolfgang's former indifference. He was
more attentive during the last lessons; the empty bare room with the few pictures on the plain
walls did not seem so bare to him any longer. Was it only because he had grown accustomed to
it? A softer light fell through the dreary windows and glided over the monotonous rows of benches,
beautifying them.

Even Lehmann and Kesselborn were not quite so unsympathetic lately. All his thoughts grew gentler,
more forgiving. The boy's hard heart became soft. When the clergyman spoke of the Commandments
and specially emphasised the one, "Honour thy father and thy mother," it seemed to Wolfgang
there was much for which he must ask forgiveness; especially his mother's forgiveness.

But then when he came home and wanted to say something loving to her--something quite unprepared,
quite spontaneous--he could not do it, for she had not perceived his intention.

Käte often went to the station to meet him--oh, how tired the poor boy must be when he came
home. It was really too great a rush for him to have to go to town for his Bible-lessons so
often, and there was always twice as much work at school before the end of the term. She would
have liked to have caressed him, to have fondled him as she formerly did little Wölfchen. But
when she saw him come sauntering along, never looking out for her, never imagining that she
was there waiting for him, she would turn quickly down the first street or remain standing
quietly behind a tree and let him pass by. He did not notice her at all.

The popular clergyman had to prepare a great many boys for confirmation, too many; he could
not interest himself in each individual one of them; nevertheless he thought he could assure
Wolfgang's mother, who came to see him full of a certain anxiety in order to ask him how her
son was getting on, that he was satisfied with him.

"I know, I know, Frau Schlieben. Your husband considered it his duty to explain it to me--I
have also seen the boy's Catholic certificate of baptism. But I think I can assure you with
a clear conscience that the lad is a sincere, evangelical Christian. What, you still have some
doubts about it?" Her doubtful mien, the questioning anxiety in her eyes astonished him.

She nodded: yes, she had a doubt. Odd that she should have got it quite lately. But a stranger,
anybody else would not understand it, not even this man with the clever eyes and the gentle
smile. And she could hardly have expressed her doubt in words. And she would have had to tell
her tale quite from the beginning, from the time when she took the child away from its mother,
took it into her own hands, the whole child, body and soul.

So she only said: "So you believe--you really believe--oh, how happy I am, Dr. Baumann, that
you believe we have done right." She looked at him expectantly--oh, how she yearned for him
to confirm it and he bowed his head:

"So far as our knowledge and understanding go--yes."

Wolfgang did not sleep the night before Palm Sunday. He had been told at the last lesson that
day that he was to prepare his thoughts. And he felt, too, that the next day was an important
day, a fresh chapter in his life. He did his best to think of everything a boy preparing for
his confirmation ought to think of. He was very tired and could not help yawning, but he forced
his eyes open every time. However, he could not help his thoughts wandering again and again;
his head was no longer clear.

What text would he get next day in remembrance of his confirmation? he wondered. They had often
talked about it at school, each one had his favourite text which he hoped to get. And would
he get the gold watch early in the morning before going to church? Of course. Oh, how angry
Kesselborn and Lehmann would be then--those wretches! He would hold it up before their eyes:
there, look! They should be green with envy--why should they always be whispering about him,
meddling with things that did not concern them at all? Pooh, they could not make him trouble
about it all the same, not even make him angry.

And still all at once he saw his own face so plainly before his mind's eye and his mother's
near it, as he had seen them in the glass. There was not a single feature alike--no, not one.

It was really odd that mother and son resembled each other so little. Now he was wide awake,
and commenced to ponder, his brows knit, his hands clenched. What did they really mean by their
offensive remarks? If only he knew it. He would be quite satisfied then, quite easy. But he
could not think of anything else as things were now, with everything so obscure. All his thoughts
turned round and round the same point. It was a horrible feeling that tormented him now, a
great uncertainty in which he groped about in the dark. Light, light, he must have light. Ah,
he would see that he got some.

He tossed about restlessly, quite tortured by his thoughts, and considered and pondered how
he was to find it out, where he was to find it out. Who would tell him for certain whether
he was his parents' child or not? Why should he not be their child? Yes, he was their child--no,
he was not. But why not? If he was not their real child, would he be very sorry? No, no!--but
still, it terrified him.

The perspiration stood out on the excited boy's body, and still he felt icy-cold. He drew the
cover up and shook as though with fever. His heart behaved strangely too, it fluttered in his
breast as though with restless wings. Oh, if only he could sleep and forget everything. Then
there would be no thought of it next day, and everything would be as it had always been.

He pressed his eyes together tightly, but the sleep he had driven away did not come again.
He heard the clocks strike, the old clock resounded hi the dining-room downstairs, and the
bronze one called from his mother's room with its silvery voice. The silence of the night exaggerated
every sound; he had never heard the clocks strike so loudly before.

Was the morning never coming? Was it not light yet? He longed for the day to come, and still
he dreaded it. All at once he was seized with an inexplicable terror--why, what was it he feared
so much?

If only he were already at church--no, if only it were all over. He was filled with reluctance,
a sudden disinclination. The same thought continued to rush madly through his brain, and his
heart rushed with it; it was impossible to collect his thoughts. He sighed as he tossed and
turned on his bed; he felt so extremely lonely, terrified, nay, persecuted.

As the morning sun stole through the shutters that were still closed on Palm Sunday, forcing
its way into the room in delicate, golden rays, Käte came into her son's room. She was pale,
for she had been struggling with herself the whole night: should she tell him something, now
that he was to enter upon this new chapter of his life or should she tell him nothing? Something
within her whispered: "The day has come, tell him it, you owe it to him"--but when the morning
sun appeared she bade the voice of the night be silent. Why tell him it? What did it matter
to him? What he did not know could not grieve him; but if he knew it, then--perhaps he would
then--oh, God, she must keep silent, she could not lose him!

But she longed to let him feel her love. When she came in with soft steps she was amazed, for
he was standing already quite dressed in the new black coat and trousers at the window, gazing
fixedly at the field in which they were beginning to build a villa now. The ground floor was
already finished, there was a high scaffolding round it; it was going to be an enormous building.

"Good morning, my dear son," she said.

He did not hear her.

"Wolfgang!"

Then he turned round quickly and looked at her, terrified and as though he did not know her.

"Oh, you're already dressed." Her voice seemed to express disappointment; she would have been
so pleased to have helped him just on that day. There was a strange feeling in her heart; she
had never thought the day would have affected her so. Was it not a day like other days, a festival,
of course, but one of many? And now it seemed as though the day were unique, and as though
there would never be another like it again.

She went up to Wolfgang, laid her arms round his neck and looked deep into his eyes: "My child!"
And then she smiled at him. "I wish you joy."

"Why?" He looked past her with such a strange expression that all the heartfelt things she
had wanted to say to him remained unsaid. He was still quite a child although he was almost
taller than she, much too much of a child, he did not understand the importance of the day
as yet. So all she did was to improve on his appearance a little, to take away a thread from
his clothes here, to blow away some dust there and pull his tie straight. And then he had to
bend his head; she made a parting again in his stiff obstinate hair, that never would remain
straight. And then she could not restrain herself, but took his round face between both her
hands and pressed a quick kiss on his forehead.

"Why not on my mouth?" he thought to himself. "A mother would have kissed her child on his mouth."

They went down to breakfast. There were flowers on the table; his father, who was wearing a
frock coat, was already seated, and the gold watch lay on Wolfgang's plate. A splendid watch.
He examined it critically; yes, he liked it. "In remembrance of April 1, 1901," was engraved
inside the gold case. Neither Kesselborn nor Lehmann would get such a watch, none of the boys
who were to be confirmed would get anything like such a beauty. It was awfully heavy--he really
ought to have a gold chain now.

Wolfgang's parents watched him as he stood there with the watch in his hand, looking at it
yes, he was pleased. And that pleased them, especially Käte. She had wanted to have a text
engraved inside it as well, but Paul did not wish it: don't let them get sentimental about
it. But it was all right as it was, the boy was pleased with the gift, and so they had gained
their object.

"It strikes as well," she said to him eagerly. "You can know what time it is in the dark. Look.
If you press here--do you see?"

"Yes. Give it to me--you've to press here." He knew all about it.

They had lost count of the time; they had to be going. Wolfgang walked to the station between
his parents. When they passed the house where Lämke was hall-porter, Frida was standing at
the door. She must have got up earlier than usual this Sunday; she was already in her finery,
looked very nice and smiled and nodded. Then Frau Lämke stuck her head out of the low cellar-window,
and followed the boy with her eyes.

"There he goes," she philosophised. "Who knows what life has in store for him?" She felt quite
moved.

It was splendid weather, a real spring day. The tasteful villas looked so festive and bright;
all the bushes were shooting, and the crocuses, tulips and primroses were in bloom. Even Berlin
with its large grey houses and its noise and traffic showed a Sunday face. It was so much quieter
in the streets; true, the electric cars were rushing along and there were cabs and carriages,
but there were no waggons about, no brewers' and butchers' carts. Everything was so much quieter,
as though subdued, softened. The streets seemed broader than usual because they were emptier,
and the faces of the people who walked there looked different from what they generally did.

The candidates for confirmation were streaming to the church; there was a large number of boys
and girls. Most of the girls drove, for they all belonged to good families.

Ah, all those boys and girls. Käte could hardly suppress a slight feeling of longing, almost
of envy: oh, to be as young as they were. But then every selfish thought was swallowed up in
the one feeling: the boy, the boy was stepping out of childhood's land now. God be with him!

Feelings she had not known for a long time, childlike, devout, quite artless feelings crowded
in upon her; everything the years and her worldly life had brought with them fell from her.
To-day she was young again, as young as those kneeling at the altar, full of confidence, full
of hope.

Dr. Baumann spoke grave words full of advice to the boys and girls; many of the young children
sobbed, and their mothers, too. A shudder passed through the crowded church, the young dark
and fair heads bent low. Käte's eyes sought Wolfgang; his head was the darkest of all. But
he did not keep it bent, his eyes wandered restlessly all over the church until they came to
a certain window; there they remained fixed. What was he looking for there? Of what was he
thinking? She imagined she could see that his thoughts were far away, and that made her uneasy.
Moving nearer to her husband she whispered: "Do you see him?"

He nodded and whispered: "Certainly. He's bigger than all the others." There was something
of a father's pride in the man's whisper. Yes, to-day it came home to him: even if they had
had many a sorrow they would not have had under other circumstances, many a discomfort and
unpleasantness, still they had had many a joy they would otherwise have missed. In spite of
everything the boy might in time be all right. How he was growing. There was an expression
about his mouth that was almost manly. It had never struck his father before--was it the black
clothes that made the boy look so grave?

Wolfgang's thoughts went along paths of their own; not along those prescribed there. He had
many sensations, but he could not keep hold of any; he was lost in thought. He saw a bit of
the sky through a square in the window-pane, and the flitting figures of his father, mother,
Frida, his masters and school-fellows appeared to him in it. But they all glided past, no vision
remained. All at once he felt quite alone among all that crowd of people.

