"Said I not," said the old man musingly, "that even the worst sinners are better than these
Rabbis? So blind are they in the arrogance of their self-conceit, so darkened by their pride,
that their very devotion to the Law becomes a vehicle for their sin."

We helped the woman gently into the cart. I climbed in, but the old man began to walk with
the horse, holding its bridle, and reversing its direction.

"Aren't you jumping up?" I asked.

"We are going up now, instead of down," he said, smiling. "Brody sits high, in the seat of
the scornful."

A pang of shame traversed my breast. What! I was riding and this fine old fellow was walking!
But ere I could offer to get down, a new thought increased my confusion. I, who was bent on
finding the Baal Shem, was now off on a side-adventure to Brody. And yet I was loath to part
so soon with my new friend. And besides, I told myself, Brody was well worth a visit. The reputation
of its Talmudical schools was spread over the kingdom, and although I shared the old man's
repugnance to them my curiosity was alert. And even on the Baal Shem's account I ought to go
there. For I remembered now that his early life had had many associations with the town, and
that it was his wife's birthplace. So I said, "How far is Brody?"

"Ten miles," he said.

"Ten miles!" I repeated in horror.

"Ten miles," he said musingly, "and ten years since I set foot in Brody."

I jumped down. "'Tis I must walk, not you," I said.

"Nay," said he good-humoredly. "I perceive neither of us can walk. Those sacks must play Jonah.
Out with them."

"No," I said.

"Yes," he insisted, laughing. "Did I not say Satan was determined to spoil my Passover? The
third time I shall have better luck perhaps."

I protested against thus causing him so much loss, and offered to go and find the Baal Shem
alone, but he rolled out the flour-bags, laughing, leaving one for the woman to lie against.

"But your wife will be expecting them," I remarked, as the cart proceeded with both of us in
our seats.

"She will be expecting me, too," he said, smiling ruefully. "However, she has faith in God.
Never yet have we lacked food. Surely He who feedeth the ravens--" He broke off with a sudden
thought, leapt down, and ran back.

"What is it?" I said.

I saw him draw out his knife again and slit open the sacks. "The birds shall keep Passover,"
he called out merrily.

The woman was still sobbing as he climbed to his place, but he comforted her with his genial
and heterodox philosophy.

"'Tis a device of Satan," he said, "to drive us to despondency, so as to choke out the God-spark
in us. Your sin is great, but your Father in Heaven awaits you, and will rejoice as a King
rejoices over a princess redeemed from captivity. Every soul is a whole Bible in itself. Yours
contains Sarah and Ruth as well as Jezebel and Michal. Hitherto you have developed the Jezebel
in you; strive now to develop the Sarah." With such bold consolations he soothed her, till
the monotonous movement of the cart sent her into a blessed sleep. Then he took out a pipe
and, begging permission of me, lighted it. As the smoke curled up his face became ecstatic.

"I think," he observed musingly, "that God is more pleased with this incense of mine than with
all the prayers of all the Rabbis."

This shocked even me, fascinated though I was. Never had I met such a man in all Israel. I
shook my head in half-serious reproof. "You are a sinner," I said.

"Nay, is not smoking pleasurable? To enjoy aright aught in God's creation is to praise God.
Even so, is not to pray the greatest of all pleasures?"

"To pray?" I repeated wonderingly. "Nay, methinks it is a heavy burden to get through our volumes
of prayer."

"A burden!" cried the old man. "A burden to enter into relation with God, to be reabsorbed
into the divine unity. Nay, 'tis a bliss as of bridegroom with bride. Whoso does not feel this
joy of union--this divine kiss--has not prayed."

"Then have I never prayed," I said.

"Then 'tis you that are the sinner," he retorted, laughing.

His words struck me into a meditative silence. It was towards twilight when our oddly-encountered
trio approached the great Talmudical centre. To my surprise a vast crowd seemed to be waiting
at the gates.

"It is for me," said the woman hysterically, for she had now awakened. "My brothers have told
the elders. They will kill you. O save yourself."

"Peace, peace," said the old man, puffing his pipe.

As we came near we heard the people shouting, and nearer still made out the sounds. Was it?
Yes, I could not be mistaken. "The Baal Shem! The Baal Shem!"

My heart beat violently. What a stroke of luck was this! "The Baal Shem is there!" I cried
exultantly.

The woman grew worse. "The Baal Shem!" she shrieked. "He is a holy man. He will slay us with
a glance."

"Peace, my beautiful creature," said the driver. "You are more likely to slay him with a glance."

This time his levity grated on me. I peered eagerly towards the gates, striving to make out
the figure of the mighty Saint!

The dense mob swayed tumultuously. Some of the people ran towards our cart. Our horse had to
come to a stand-still. In a trice a dozen hands had unharnessed him, there was an instant of
terrible confusion in which I felt that violence was indeed meditated, then I found our cart
being drawn forward as in triumph by contesting hands, while in my ears thundered from a thousand
throats, "The Baal Shem! The Baal Shem!" Suddenly I looked with an incredible suspicion at
the old man, smoking imperturbably at my side.

"'Tis indeed a change for Brody," he said, with a laugh that was half a sob.

A faintness blotted out the whole strange scene--the town-gates, the eager faces, the gesticulating
figures, the houses, the frightened woman at my side.

It was the greatest surprise of my life.

VII

A chaos of images clashed in my mind. I saw the mystic figure of the mighty Master of the Name
standing in the cemetery judging betwixt the souls of the dead; I saw him in the upper world
amid the angels; I saw him serene in the centre of his magic circle, annihilating with his
glance the flaming hordes of demon boars; and even as the creatures shattered themselves into
nothingness against the circle, so must these sublime visions vanish before this genial old
man. And yet my disillusion was not all empty. There were still the cheers to exalt me, there
was still my strange companion, to whose ideas I had already vibrated, and whose face was now
transfigured to my imagination, gaining much of what the visionary figure had lost. And, amid
all the tumult of the moment, there sang in my breast the divine assurance that here at last
were the living waters, here the green pastures. "Master," I cried frantically, as I seized
his hand and kissed it.

"My son," he said tenderly. "Those murderers have evidently informed the townspeople of my coming."

"It is well," said I, "I rejoice to witness your triumph over a town so rabbi-ridden."

"Nay, speak not of my triumph," reproved the Master. "Thank God for the change in them, if
change there be. It should be indifferent to man whether he be praised or blamed, loved or
hated, reputed to be the wisest of mankind or the greatest of fools."

"They wish you to address them, Master," I cried, as the cheers continued. He smiled.

"Doubtless--a sermon full of hair-splitting exegesis and devil's webs. I pray you descend and
see that my horse be not stolen."

I sprang down with alacrity to obey this his first wish, and, scrambling on the animal, had
again a view of the sea of faces, all turned towards the Baal Shem. From the excited talk of
the crowd, I gathered that the Baal Shem had just performed one of his greatest miracles. Two
brothers had been journeying with their sister in the woods, and had been attacked by robbers.
They had been on the point of death when the Baal Shem miraculously appeared, and by merely
mentioning the Name, had caused the robbers to sink into the earth like Korah. The sister being
too terrified to return with her brothers, the Baal Shem undertook to bring her to Brody himself
in his own celestial chariot, which, to those not initiated into the higher mysteries, appeared
like an ordinary cart.

Meantime the Master had refilled his pipe. "Is that my old friend David," he cried, addressing
one with a cobbler's apron; "and how is business?"

The cobbler, abashed by this unexpected honor, flushed and stammered: "God is good."

"A sorry answer, David; God would be as good if he sent you a-begging. Ha, ha!" he went on
cheerily, "I see Joseph the innkeeper has waxed more like a barrel than ever. Peace be to you,
Joseph! Have you learnt to read yet? No! Then you are still the wisest man in the town."

By this time some of the Rabbis and magnates in the forefront of the crowd had begun to look
sullen at being ignored, but even more pointedly than he ignored these pillars of the commonweal,
did the Baal Shem ignore his public reception, continuing to exchange greetings with humble
old acquaintances, and finally begging the men between the shafts either to give place again
to his horse or to draw him to his daughter's house, whither he had undertaken to convey the
woman they saw (who all this time had sat as one in a dream). But on the cries for a sermon
persisting, he said:

"Friends, I cannot preach to you, more than my horse yonder. Everything preaches. Call nothing
common or profane; by God's presence all things are holy. See there are the first stars. Is
it not a glorious world? Enjoy it; only fools and Rabbis speak of the world as vanity or emptiness.
But just as a lover sees even in the jewels of his beloved only her own beauty, so in stars
and waters must we see only God." He fell a-puffing again at his pipe, but the expectant crowd
would not yet divide for his passage. "Ye fools," he said roughly, "you would make me as you
have made the Law and the world, a place for stopping at, when all things are but on the way
to God. There was once a King," he went on, "who built himself a glorious palace. The King
was throned in the centre of what seemed a maze of winding corridors. In the entrance--halls
was heaped much gold and silver, and here the folk were content to stay, taking their fill
of pleasure. At last the vizier had compassion upon them and called out to them: 'All these
treasures and all these walls and corridors do not in truth exist at all. They are magical
illusions. Push forward bravely and you shall find the King.'"

But as the crowd still raged about disappointed, pleading for a miracle, the Baal Shem whistled,
and his horse flew towards him so suddenly that I nearly fell off, and the crowd had to separate
in haste. A paralytic cripple dropped his crutch in a flurry and fell a-running, quite cured.

"A miracle! a miracle!" cried a hundred voices. "God be praised!"

The shout was taken up all down the street, and eager spectators surrounded the joyous cripple,
interrogating him and feeling his limbs.

"You see, you see!" I heard them say to each other. "There is witchcraft even in his horse!"

As the animal came towards the shafts the human drawers scattered hastily. I hitched the wagon
to and we drove through the throng that begged the Baal Shem's blessing. But he only waved
them off smilingly.

"Bless one another by your deeds," he cried from time to time. "Then Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob
will bless you." And so we came to the Ring-Place, and through it, into the structure we sought--a
tall two-storied stone building.

When we arrived at his daughter's house we found that she rented only an apartment, so that
none of us but the woman could be lodged, though we were entertained with food and wine. After
supper, when the iron shutters were closed, the Baal Shem's daughter--a beautiful black-eyed
girl--danced with such fire and fervor that her crimson head-cloth nearly dropped off, and
I, being now in a cheerful mood, fell to envying her husband, who for his part conversed blithely
with the rescued woman. In the middle of the gaiety the Baal Sham retired to a corner, observing
he wished to say his Mincha prayer, and bidding us continue our merriment and not regard him.

"Mincha!" I ejaculated unthinkingly, "why, it is too late."

"Would you give a child regulations when he may speak to his Father?" rebuked the Baal Shem.

So I went on talking with his daughter, but of a sudden a smile curved my lips at the thought
of how the foolish makers of legends had feigned his praying to be so fraught with occult operations
that he who looked at him might die. I turned and stole a glance at him.

Then to my amaze, as I caught sight of his face, I realized for the first time that he was,
indeed, as men called him, the Master of Divine Secrets. There were on his brow great spots
of perspiration, and, as if from agony, tears trickled down his cheeks, but his eyes were upturned
and glazed, and his face was as that of a dead man without soul, only it seemed to me that
the nimbus of which men spoke was verily round his head. His form, too, which was grown rigid,
appeared strangely taller. One hand grasped the corner of the dresser. I turned away my eyes
quickly, fearing lest they should be smitten with blindness. I know not how many minutes passed
before I heard a great sigh, and, turning, saw the Baal Shem's figure stirring and quivering,
and in another moment he was facing me with a beaming smile. "Well, my son, do you feel inclined
for bed?"

His question recalled to me how much I had gone through that day, and though I was in no hurry
to leave this pleasant circle, yet I replied his wish was law to me. Whereupon he said, to
my content, that he would tarry yet another quarter of an hour. When we set out for the inn
of Joseph where our horse and cart had preceded us, it was ten o'clock, but there was still
a crowd outside the house, many of the great iron doors adown the street were still open, and
men and women pressed forward to kiss the hem of the Master's garment.

On our walk I begged him to tell me what he had seen during his prayers.

"I made a soul-ascension," said he simply, "and saw more wonderful things than I have seen
since I came to divine knowledge. Praise to the Unity!"

"Can I see such things?" said I breathlessly, as all I had learnt of Cabalah and all my futile
attempts to work miracles came rushing back to me.

"No--not you."

I felt chilled, but he went on: "Not you--the you must be obliterated. You must be reabsorbed
in the Unity."

"But how?"

"Concentrate your thought on God. Forget yourself."

"I will try, dear Master," said I. "But tell me what you saw."

"What I saw and learnt up there it is impossible to communicate by word of mouth."

But I entreated him sore, and ere we had parted for the night he delivered himself as follows,
speaking of these divine things in Hebrew:--

"I may only relate what I witnessed when I descended to the lower Paradise. I saw there ever
so many souls both of living and of dead people, known and unknown to me, without measure and
number, coming and going from one world to the other, by means of the Pillar which is known
to those who know Grace. Great was the joy which the bodily breath can neither narrate nor
the bodily ear hear. Many very wicked people came back in repentance, and all their sins were
forgiven them, because this was a season of great Grace in Heaven. I wondered indeed that so
many were received. They all begged and entreated me to come up with them to the higher regions,
and on account of the great rejoicing I saw amongst them I consented. Then I asked for my heavenly
teacher to go with me because the danger of ascending such upper worlds is great, where I have
never been since I exist. I thus ascended from grade to grade till I came into the Temple of
the Messiah, in which the Messiah teaches Torah with all the Tanaim and the Zaddikim and the
Seven Shepherds; and there I saw a great rejoicing. I did not know what this rejoicing meant.
I thought at first that this rejoicing might perhaps be on account of my speedy death. But
they made known to me that I shall not die yet, because there is great rejoicing in Heaven
when I make celestial unions below by their holy teaching. But what the rejoicing meant, I
still did not know. I asked, 'When will the Master come?' I was answered: 'When thy teaching
shall be known and revealed to the world, and thy springs shall spread abroad that which I
have taught thee, and that which thou hast received here, and when all men will be able to
make unions and ascensions like thee. Then all the husks of worldly evil will disappear, and
it will be a time of Grace and Salvation.' I wondered very much, and I felt great sorrow because
the time was to be so long delayed. Because when can this be? But in this my last ascent three
words that be mighty charms and three heavenly names I learnt. They are easy to learn and to
explain. This cooled my mind. I believe that through them people of my genius will reach soon
my degree, but I have no permission to reveal them. I have been praying at least for permission
to teach them to you, but I must keep to my oath. But this I make known to you, and God will
help you. Let your ways be directed towards God, let them not turn away from Him. When you
pray and study, in every word and utterance of your lips direct your mind to unification, because
in every letter there are worlds and souls and Deity. The letters unify and become a word,
and afterwards unify in the Deity, wherefore try to have your soul absorbed in them, so that
all universes become unified, which causes an infinite joy and exaltation. If you understand
the joy of bride and bridegroom a little and in a material way, how much more ecstatic is the
unification of this celestial sort! O the wondrous day when Evil shall at last be worked out
of the universe, and God be at one with His creation. May He be your help!"

I sat a while in dazed wonder.

"Dear Master," said I at last, "you to whom are unveiled the secrets of all the universes,
cannot you read my future?"

"Yes," he said. I looked at him breathlessly. "You will always be faithful to me," he said slowly.

My eyes filled with tears. I kissed his hand.

"And you will marry my daughter."

My heart beat: "Which?"

"She whom you have just seen."

"But she is married," I said, as the blood swirled deliciously in my veins.

"Her husband will give her a bill of divorcement."

"And what will become of him?"

"He will marry the woman we have saved. And she, too, will win many souls."

"But how know you?" I whispered, half incredulous.

"So it is borne in upon me," said the Baal Shem, smiling.

And so indeed after many days it came to pass. And so ended this first strange day with the
beloved Master, whose light shines through the worlds.

VIII

It is now many years since I first saw the Baal Shem, and as many since I laid him in his grave,
yet every word he spake to me is treasured up in my heart as gold, yea, as fine gold. But the
hand of age is heavy upon me, and lest I may not live to complete even this briefer story,
I shall set down here but the rough impression of his doctrine left in my mind, hoping to devote
a separate volume to these conversations with my divine Master. And this is the more necessary,
as I said, since every day the delusions and impostures of those who use his name multiply
and grow ranker. Even in his own day, the Master's doctrine was already, as you will have seen,
sufficiently distorted by souls smaller than his own, and by the refraction of distance--for
how should a true image of him pass from town to town, by forest and mountain, throughout all
that vast empire? The Master's life alone made clear to me what I had failed to gather from
his followers. Just as their delirious dancings and shrieks and spasms were abortive attempts
to produce his prayer-ecstasy, so in all things did they but caricature him. But now that he
is dead, and these extravagances are no longer to be checked by his living example, so monstrous
are the deeds wrought and the things taught in his name, that though the Chassidim he founded
are become--despite every persecution by the orthodox Jews, despite the scourging of their
bodies and the setting of them in the stocks, despite the excommunication of our order and
the closing of our synagogues, and the burning of our books--a mighty sect throughout the length
and the breadth of Central Europe, yet have I little pleasure in them, little joy in the spread
of the teaching to which I devoted my life. And sometimes--now that my Master's face no longer
shines consolingly upon me, save in dream and memory--I dare to wonder if the world is better
for his having lived. And indeed at times I find myself sympathizing with our chief persecutor,
the saintly and learned Wilna Gaon.

And first, since there are now, alas! followers of his who in their perverted straining after
simplicity of existence wander about naked in the streets, and even attend to the wants of
nature in public, let me testify that though the Master considered the body and all its functions
holy, yet did he give no countenance to such exaggerations; and though in his love for the
sun and the water and bodily purity--to him a celestial symbol--he often bathed in retired
streams, yet was he ever clad becomingly in public; and though he regarded not money, yet did
he, when necessary, strive to earn it by work, not lolling about smoking and vaunting his Perfection,
pretending to be meditating upon God, while others span and toiled for him.

For in his work too, my Master lived in the hourly presence of God; and of the patriarchs and
the prophets, the great men of Israel, the Tanaim and the Amoraim, and all who had sought to
bring God's Kingdom upon earth, that God and Creation, Heaven and Earth, might be at one, and
the Messiah might come and the divine peace fall upon all the world. And when he prayed and
wept for the sins of his people, his spirit ascended to the celestial spheres and held converse
with the holy ones, but this did not puff him up with vanity as it doth those who profess to-day
to make soul-ascensions, an experience of which I for my own part, alas! have never yet been
deemed worthy. For when he returned to earth the Baal Shem conducted himself always like a
simple man who had never left his native hamlet, whereas these heavenly travellers feign to
despise this lower world, nay, some in their conceit and arrogance lose their wits and give
out that they have already been translated and are no longer mortal. My Master did, indeed,
hope to be translated in his lifetime like Elijah, for he once said to me, weeping--'twas after
we returned from his wife's funeral--"Now that my wife is dead I shall die too. Such a saint
might have carried me with her to Heaven. She followed me unquestioningly into the woods, lived
without society, summer and winter, endured pain and labor for me, and but for her faith in
me I should have achieved naught." No man reverenced womankind more than the Master; in this,
as in so much, his life became a model to mine, and his dear daughter profited by the lesson
her father had taught me. We err grievously in disesteeming our women: they should be our comrades
not our slaves, and our soul-ascensions--to speak figuratively--should be made in their loving
companionship.

My Master believed that the breath of God vivified the universe, renewing daily the work of
creation, and that hence the world of everyday was as inspired as the Torah, the one throwing
light on the other. The written Law must be interpreted in every age in accordance with the
ruling attribute of God--for God governs in every age by a different attribute, sometimes by
His Love, sometimes by His Power, sometimes by His Beauty. "It is not the number of ordinances
that we obey that brings us into union with God," said the Master; "one commandment fulfilled
in and through love of Him is as effective as all." But this did not mean that the other commandments
were to be disregarded, as some have deduced; nor that one commandment should be made the centre
of life, as has been done by others. For, though the Zaddik, who gave his life to helping his
neighbor's or his enemy's ass lying under its burden, as enjoined in Exodus xxiii. 5, was not
unworthy of admiration--indeed he was my own disciple, and desired thus to commemorate the
circumstances of my first meeting with the Baal Shem,--yet he who made it his speciality never
to tell the smallest falsehood was led into greater sin. For when his fame was so bruited that
it reached even the Government officers, they, suspecting the Jews of the town of smuggling,
said they would withdraw the charge if the Saint would declare his brethren innocent. Whereupon
he prayed to God to save him from his dilemma by sending him death, and lo! when the men came
to fetch him to the law-court, they found him dead. But a true follower of the Master should
have been willing to testify for truth's sake even against his brethren, and in my humble judgment
his death was not a deliverance, but a punishment from on high.

Had, moreover, the Saint practised the Humility--which my Master put as the first of the three
cardinal virtues--he would not have deemed it so fatal to tell a lie once; for who can doubt
there was in him more spiritual pride in his own record than pure love of truth? And had he
practised the second of the three cardinal virtues--Cheerfulness--he would have known that
God can redeem a man even from the sin of lying. And had he practised the third--Enkindlement--he
would never have narrowed himself to one commandment, and that a negative one--not to lie.
For where there is a living flame in the heart, it spreads to all the members.

"Service is its own reward, its own joy," said the Baal Shem. "No man should bend his mind
on not doing sin: his day should be too full of joyous service." The Messianic Age would be,
my Master taught, when every man did what was right and just of mere natural impulse, not even
remembering that he was doing right, still less being uplifted on that account, for no man
is proud because he walks or sleeps. Then would Righteousness be incarnate in the world, and
the devil finally defeated, and every man would be able to make celestial unions and soul-ascensions.

Many sufferings did the Baal Shem endure in the years that I was with him. Penury and persecution
were often his portion, and how his wife's death wounded him I have already intimated. But
it was the revival of the Sabbatian heresy by Jacob Frank that caused him the severest perturbation.
This Frank, who was by turns a Turk, a Jew, and a Catholic, played the rôle of successor of
Zevi, as Messiah, ordered his followers to address him as the Holy Lord, and, later, paraded
his beautiful daughter, Eve, as the female Godhead. Much of what my grandfather had told me
of the first Pretender was repeated, save that as the first had made alliance with the Mohammedans,
so the second coquetted with the Christians. Hence those public disputations, fostered by the
Christians, in which the Frankists did battle with the Talmudists, and being accredited the
victors, exulted in seeing the sacred books of the Rabbis confiscated. When a thousand copies
of the Talmud were thrown into a great pit at Kammieniec, and burned by the hangman, the Baal
Shem shed tears, and joined in the fast-day for the burning of the Torah. For despite his detestation
of the devil's knots, he held that the Talmud represented the oral law which expressed the
continuous inspiration of the leaders of Israel, and that to rely on the Bible alone was to
worship the mummy of religion. Nor did he grieve less over the verbal tournament of the Talmudists
and Frankists in the Cathedral of Lemberg, when the Polish nobility and burghers bought entrance
tickets at high prices. "The devil, not God, is served by religious disputations," said the
Master. And when at last the Frankists were baptized in their thousands, and their Messiah
in pompous Turkish robes paraded the town in a chariot drawn by six horses, and surrounded
by Turkish guards, the Baal Shem was more pleased than grieved at this ending. When these Jewish
Catholics, however, came to grief, and, on the incarceration of Frank by the Polish Inquisition,
were reduced to asking alms at church-doors, the Baal Shem was alone in refusing to taunt them
for still gazing longingly towards "the gate of Rome," as they mystically called the convent
of Czenstochow, in which Frank lay imprisoned. And when their enemies said they had met with
their desert, the Baal Shem said: "There is no sphere in Heaven where the soul remains a shorter
time than in the sphere of merit, there is none where it abides longer than in the sphere of
love." Much also in these troublous times did the Baal Shem suffer from his sympathy with the
sufferings of Poland, in its fratricidal war, when the Cossacks hung up together a nobleman,
a Jew, a monk, and a dog, with the inscription: "All are equal." Although these Cossacks, and
later on the Turks, who, in the guise of friends of Poland, turned the Southern provinces into
deserts, rather helped than hindered the cause of his followers by diverting their persecutors,
the Baal Shem palpitated with pity for all--dogs, monks, noblemen, and Jews. But, howsoever
he suffered, the serene cheerful faith on which these were but dark shadows, never ceased altogether
to shine in his face. Even on his death-bed his three cardinal virtues were not absent. For
no man could face the Angel of Death more cheerfully, or anticipate more glowingly the absorption
into the Divine, and as for Humility, "O Vanity! vanity!" were his dying words; "even in this
hour of death thou darest approach me with thy temptations. 'Bethink thee, Israel, what a grand
funeral procession will be thine because thou hast been so wise and good,' O Vanity, vanity,
beshrew thee."

Now although I was his son-in-law, and was with him in this last hour, it is known of all men
that not I, but Rabbi Baer, was appointed by him to be his successor. For although my acquaintance
with the Baal Shem did not tend to increase my admiration for his chief disciple, I never expressed
my full mind on the subject to the Master, for he had early enjoined on me that the obverse
side of the virtue of Humility is to think highly of one's fellow-man. "He who loves the Father,
God, will also love the children."

But, inasmuch as he abhorred profitless learning, and all study for study's sake that does
not lead to the infinite light, I did venture to ask him why he had allowed Baer, the Scholar,
to go about as his lieutenant and found communities in his name.

"Because," he said with beautiful simplicity, "I saw that I had sinned in making ignorance
synonymous with virtue. There are good men even among the learned--men whose hearts are uncorrupted
by their brains. Baer was such a one, and since he had great repute among the learned I saw
that the learned who would not listen to a simple man would listen to him."

Now, before I say aught else on this point, let this saying of the Master serve to rebuke his
graceless followers who despise the learned while they themselves have not even holiness, and
who boast of their ignorance as though it guaranteed illumination; but as to Rabbi Baer I will
boldly say that it would have been better for the world and the Baal Shem's teachings had I
been appointed to hand them down. For Baer made of the Master's living impulse a code and a
creed which grew rigid and dead. And he organized his followers by external signs--noisy praying,
ablutions, white Sabbath robes, and so forth--so that the spirit died and the symbols remained,
and now of the tens of thousands who call themselves Chassidim and pray the prayers and perform
the ceremonies and wear the robes, there are not ten that have the faintest notion of the Master's
teaching. For spirit is volatile and flies away, but symbol is solid and is handed down religiously
from generation to generation. But the greatest abuse has come from the doctrine of the Zaddik.
Perhaps the logic of Baer is sound, that if God, as the Master taught, is in all things, then
is there so much of Him in certain chosen men that they are themselves divine. I do not doubt
that the Master himself was akin to divinity, for though he did not profess to perform miracles,
pretending that such healing as he wrought was by virtue of his knowledge of herbs and simples,
and saying jestingly that the Angel of Healing goes with the good physician, nor ever admitting
to me that he had done battle with demons and magicians save figuratively; yet was there in
him a strange power, which is not given to men, of soothing and redeeming by his mere touch,
so that, laid upon the brow--as I can personally testify--his hands would cure headache and
drive out ill-humors. And I will even believe that there was of this divinity in Rabbi Baer.
But whereas the Baal Shem veiled his divinity in his manhood, Baer strove to veil his manhood
in his divinity, and to eke out his power by arts and policies, the better to influence men
and govern them, and gain of their gold for his further operations. Yet the lesson of his history
to me is, that if Truth is not great enough to prevail alone, she shall not prevail by aid
of cunning. For finally there will come men who will manifest the cunning without the Truth.
So at least it has been here. First the Baal Shem, the pure Zaddik, then Rabbi Baer, the worldly
Zaddik, and then a host of Zaddikim, many of them having only the outward show of Sainthood.
For since our otherwise great sect is split up into a thousand little sects, each boasting
its own Zaddik--superior to all the others, the only true Intermediary between God and Man,
the sole source of blessing and fount of Grace--and each lodging him in a palace (to which
they make pilgrimages at the Festivals as of yore to the Temple) and paying him tribute of
gold and treasure; it is palpable that these sorry Saints have themselves brought about these
divisions for their greater glory and profit. And I weep the more over this spoliation of my
Chassidim, because there is so much perverted goodness among them, so much self-sacrifice for
one another in distress, and such faithful obedience to the Zaddik, who everywhere monopolizes
the service and the worship which should be given to God. Alas! that a movement which began
with such pure aspiration, which was to the souls of me and so many other young students as
the shadow of a great rock in a weary land, that a doctrine which opened out to young Israel
such spiritual vistas and transcendent splendors of the Godhead, should end in such delusions
and distortions.

Woe is me! Is it always to be thus with Israel? Are we to struggle out of one slough only to
sink into another? But these doubts dishonor the Master. Let me be humbler in judging others,
cheerfuller in looking out upon the future, more enkindling towards the young men who are growing
up around me, and who may yet pass on the torch of the Master. For them let me recall the many
souls he touched to purer flame; let me tell them of those who gave up posts and dignities
to spread his gospel and endured hunger and scorn. And let me not forget to mention Rabbi Lemuel,
the lover of justice, who once when his wife set out for the Judgment House in a cause against
her maidservant set out with her too.

"I need you not to speak for me," she said, in ill-humor; "I can plead my own cause."

"Nay, it is not for thee I go to speak," he answered mildly; "it is the cause of thy servant
I go to plead--she who hath none to defend her." And, bursting into tears, he repeated the
verse of Job: "If I did despise the cause of my manservant or of my maidservant, when they
contended with me, what shall I do when God riseth up?"

These and many such things, both of learned men and of simple, I hope yet to chronicle for
the youths of Israel. But above all let the memory of the Master himself be to them a melody
and a blessing: he whose life taught me to understand that the greatest man is not he who dwells
in the purple, amid palaces and courtiers, hedged and guarded, and magnified by illusive pomp,
but he who, talking cheerfully with his fellows in the market-place, humble as though he were
unworshipped, and poor as though he were unregarded, is divinely enkindled, so that a light
shines from him whereby men recognize the visible presence of God.

MAIMON THE FOOL AND NATHAN THE WISE

I

Happy burghers of Berlin in their Sunday best trooped through the Rosenthaler gate in the cool
of the August evening for their customary stroll in the environs: few escaped noticing the
recumbent ragged figure of a young man, with a long dirty beard, wailing and writhing uncouthly
just outside the gate: fewer inquired what ailed him.

He answered in a strange mixture of jargons, blurring his meaning hopelessly with scraps of
Hebrew, of Jewish-German, of Polish, of Russian and mis-punctuating it with choking sobs and
gasps. One good soul after another turned away helpless. The stout roll of Hebrew manuscript
the swarthy, unkempt creature clutched in his hand grew grimier with tears. The soldiers on
guard surveyed him with professional callousness.

Only the heart of the writhing wretch knew its own bitterness, only those tear-blinded eyes
saw the pitiful panorama of a penurious Jew's struggle for Culture. For, nursed in a narrow
creed, he had dreamt the dream of Knowledge. To know--to know--was the passion that consumed
him: to understand the meaning of life and the causes of things.

He saw himself a child again in Poland, in days of comparative affluence, clad in his little
damask suit, shocking his father with a question at the very first verse of the Bible, which
they began to read together when he was six years old, and which held many a box on the ear
in store for his ingenuous intellect. He remembered his early efforts to imitate with chalk
or charcoal the woodcuts of birds or foliage happily discovered on the title-pages of dry-as-dust
Hebrew books; how he used to steal into the unoccupied, unfurnished manor-house and copy the
figures on the tapestries, standing in midwinter, half-frozen, the paper in one hand, the pencil
in the other; and how, when these artistic enthusiasms were sternly if admiringly checked by
a father intent on siring a Rabbi, he relieved the dreary dialectics of the Talmud--so tedious
to a child uninterested in divorce laws or the number of white hairs permissible in a red cow--by
surreptitious nocturnal perusal of a precious store of Hebrew scientific and historical works
discovered in an old cupboard in his father's study. To this chamber, which had also served
as the bedroom in which the child slept with his grandmother, the young man's thoughts returned
with wistful bitterness, and at the image of the innocent little figure poring over the musty
volumes by the flickering firelight in the silence of the night, the mass of rags heaved yet
more convulsively. How he had enjoyed putting on fresh wood after his grandmother had gone
to bed, and grappling with the astronomical treatise, ignoring the grumblings of the poor old
lady who lay a-cold for want of him. Ah, the lonely little boy was, indeed, in Heaven, treading
the celestial circles--and by stealth, which made it all the sweeter. But that armillary sphere
he had so ably made for himself out of twisted rods had undone him: his grandmother, terrified
by the child's interest in these mystic convolutions, had betrayed the magical instrument to
his father. Other episodes of the long pursuit of Knowledge--not to be impeded even by flogging
pedagogues, diverted but slightly by marriage at the age of eleven,--crossed his mind. What
ineffable rapture the first reading of Maimonides had excited, The Guide of the Perplexed supplying
the truly perplexed youth with reasons for the Jewish fervor which informed him. How he had
reverenced the great mediæval thinker, regarding him as the ideal of men, the most inspired
of teachers. Had he not changed his own name to Maimon to pattern himself after his Master,
was not even now his oath under temptation: "I swear by the reverence which I owe my great
teacher, Rabbi Moses ben Maimon, not to do this act?"

But even Maimonides had not been able to allay his thirst. Maimonides was an Aristotelian,
and the youth would fain drink at the fountain-head. He tramped a hundred and fifty miles to
see an old Hebrew book on the Peripatetic philosophy. But Hebrew was not enough; the vast realm
of Knowledge, which he divined dimly, must lie in other languages. But to learn any other language
was pollution to a Jew, to teach a Jew any other was pollution to a Christian.

In his facile comprehension of German and Latin books, he had long since forgotten his first
painful steps: now in his agony they recurred to mock him. He had learnt these alien alphabets
by observing in some bulky Hebrew books that when the printers had used up the letters of the
Hebrew alphabet to mark their sheets, they started other and foreign alphabets. How he had
rejoiced to find that by help of his Jewish jargon he could worry out the meaning of some torn
leaves of an old German book picked up by chance.

The picture of the innkeeper's hut, in which he had once been family-tutor, flew up irrelevantly
into his mind--he saw himself expounding a tattered Pentateuch to a half-naked brood behind
the stove, in a smoky room full of peasants sitting on the floor guzzling whisky, or pervaded
by drunken Russian soldiery hacking the bedsteads or throwing the glasses in the faces of the
innkeeper and his wife. Poor Polish Jews, cursed by poverty and tyranny! Who could be blamed
for consoling himself with liquor in such a home? Besides, when one was paid only five thalers,
one owed it to oneself not to refuse a dram or so. And then there came up another one-room
home in which a youth with his eyes and hair had sat all night poring over Cabalistic books,
much to the inconvenience of the newly married Rabbi, who had consented to teach him this secret
doctrine. For this had been his Cabalistic phase, when he dreamed of conjurations and spells
and the Mastership of the Name. A sardonic smile twitched the corners of his lips, as he remembered
how the poor Rabbi and his pretty wife, after fruitless hints, had lent him the precious tomes
to be rid of his persistent all-night sittings, and the smile lingered an instant longer as
he recalled his own futile attempts to coerce the supernatural, either by the incantations
of the Cabalists or the prayer-ecstasy he had learnt later from the Chassidim.

Yes, he had early discovered that all this Cabalistic mysticism was only an attempt at a scientific
explanation of existence, veiled in fable and allegory. But the more reasonable he pronounced
the Cabalah to be, the more he had irritated the local Cabalists who refused to have their
"divine science" reduced to "reason." And so, disillusioned, he had rebounded to "human study,"
setting off on a pilgrimage in the depth of winter to borrow out-of-date books on optics and
physics, and making more enemies by his obtrusive knowledge of how dew came and how lightning.
It was not till--on the strength of a volume of Anatomical tables and a Medical dictionary--he
undertook cures, that he had discovered the depths of his own ignorance, achieving only the
cure of his own conceit. And it was then that Germany had begun to loom before his vision--a
great, wonderful country where Truth dwelt, and Judaism was freer, grander. Yes, he would go
to Germany and study medicine and escape this asphyxiating atmosphere.

His sobs, which had gradually subsided, revived at the thought of that terrible journey. First,
the passage to Königsberg, accorded him by a pious merchant: then the voyage to Stettin, paid
for by those young Jewish students who, beginning by laughing at his ludicrous accent in reading
Herr Mendelssohn's Phœdon--the literary sensation of the hour that had dumfoundered the Voltaireans--had
been thunderstruck by his instantaneous translation of it into elegant Hebrew, and had unanimously
advised him to make his way to Berlin. Ah, but what a voyage! Contrary winds that protracted
the journey to five weeks instead of two, the only other passenger an old woman who comforted
herself by singing hymns, his own dialect and the Pomeranian German of the crew mutually unintelligible,
his bed some hard stuffed bags, never anything warm to eat, and sea-sickness most of the time.
And then, when set down safely on shore, without a pfennig or even a sound pocket to hold one,
he had started to walk to Frankfort, oh, the wretched feeling of hopelessness that had made
him cast himself down under a lime-tree in a passion of tears! Why had he resumed hope, why
had he struggled on his way to Berlin, since this fate awaited him, this reception was to be
meted him? To be refused admission as a rogue and a vagabond, to be rejected of his fellow-Jews,
to be hustled out of his dream-city by the overseer of the Jewish gate-house!

Woe! Woe! Was this to be the end of his long aspiration? A week ago he had been so happy. After
parting with his last possession, an iron spoon, for a glass of sour beer, he had come to a
town where his Rabbinical diploma--to achieve that had been child's play to him--procured him
the full honors of the position, despite his rags. The first seat in the synagogue had been
given the tramp, and the wealthy president had invited him to his Sabbath dinner and placed
him between himself and his daughter, a pretty virgin of twelve, beautifully dressed. Through
his wine-glass the future had looked rosy, and his learned eloquence glowed responsively, but
he had not been too drunk to miss the wry faces the girl began to make, nor to be suddenly
struck dumb with shame as he realised the cause. Lying on the straw of inn-stables in garments
one has not changed for seven weeks does not commend even a Rabbi to a dainty maiden. The spell
of good luck was broken, and since then the learned tramp had known nothing but humiliation
and hunger.

The throb of elation at the sight of the gate of Berlin had been speedily subdued by the discovery
that he must bide in the poorhouse the Jews had built there till the elders had examined him.
And there he had herded all day long with the sick and cripples and a lewd rabble, till evening
brought the elders and his doom--a point-blank refusal to allow him to enter the city and study
medicine.

Why? Why? What had they against him? He asked himself the question between his paroxysms. And
suddenly, in the very midst of explaining his hard case to a new passer-by, the answer came
to him and still further confused his explanations. Yes, it must have been that wolf in Rabbi's
clothing he had talked to that morning in the poorhouse! the red-bearded reverend who had lent
so sympathetic an ear to the tale of his life in Poland, his journey hither; so sympathetic
an eye to his commentary on the great Maimonides' Guide of the Perplexed. The vile spy, the
base informer! He had told the zealots of the town of the new-comer's heretical mode of thinking.
They had shut him out, as one shuts out the plague.

So this was the free atmosphere, the grander Judaism he had yearned for. The town which boasted
of the far-famed Moses Mendelssohn, of the paragon of wisdom and tolerance, was as petty as
the Rabbi-ridden villages whose dust he had shaken off. A fierce anger against the Jews and
this Mendelssohn shook him. This then was all he had gained by leaving his wife and children
that he might follow only after Truth!

Perhaps herein lay his punishment. But no! He was not to blame for being saddled with a family.
Marriage at eleven could by no stretch of sophism be called a voluntary act. He recalled the
long, sordid, sensational matrimonial comedy of which he had been the victim; the keen competition
of the parents of daughters for the hand of so renowned an infant prodigy, who could talk theology
as crookedly as a graybeard. His own boyish liking for Pessel, the rich rent-farmer's daughter,
had been rudely set aside when her sister fell down a cellar and broke her leg. Solomon must
marry the damaged daughter, the rent-farmer had insisted to the learned boy's father, who had
replied as pertinaciously, "No, I want the straight-legged sister."

The poor young man writhed afresh at the thought of his father's obstinacy. True, Rachael had
a hobble in her leg, but as he had discovered years later when a humble tutor in her family,
she was an amiable creature, and as her father had offered to make him joint heir to his vast
fortune, he would have been settled for life, wallowing in luxury and learning. But no! his
father was bent upon having Pessel, and so he, Solomon, had been beggared by his father's fastidious
objection to a dislocated bone.

Alas, how misfortune had dogged him! There was that wealthy scholar of Schmilowitz who fell
in love with his fame, and proposed for him by letter without ever having seen him. What a
lofty epistle his father had written in reply, a pastiche of Biblical verses and Talmudical
passages, the condition of consent neatly quoted from "The Song of Solomon," "Thou, O Solomon,
must have a thousand pieces of silver, and those that keep the fruit thereof two hundred!"
A dowry of a thousand guldens for the boy, and two hundred for the father! The terms of the
Canticles had been accepted, his father had journeyed to Schmilowitz, seen his daughter-in-law,
and drawn up the marriage-contract. The two hundred guldens for himself had been paid him on
the nail, and he had even insisted on having four hundred.

In vain, "Here is your letter," the scholar had protested, "you only asked for two hundred."

"True," he had replied; "but that was only not to spoil the beautiful quotation."

How joyously he had returned home with the four hundred guldens for himself, the wedding-presents
for his little Solomon--a cap of black velvet trimmed with gold lace, a Bible bound in green
velvet with silver clasps, and the like.

The heart-broken tramp saw the innocent boy that had once been he, furtively strutting about
in his velvet cap, rehearsing the theological disputation he was to hold at the wedding-table,
and sniffing the cakes and preserves his mother was preparing for the feast, what time the
mail was bringing the news of the sudden death of the bride from small-pox.

At the moment he had sorrowed as little for his unseen bride as his father, who, having made
four hundred guldens by his son in an honorable way, might now hope to make another four hundred.
"The cap and the silver-clasped Bible are already mine," the child had told himself, "and a
bride will also not be long wanting, while my wedding-disputation can serve me again." The
mother alone had been inconsolable, cakes and preserves being of a perishable nature, especially
when there is no place to hide them from the secret attacks of a disappointed bridegroom. Only
now did poor Maimon realize how his life had again missed ease! For he had fallen at last into
the hands of the widow of Nesvig, with a public-house in the outskirts and an only daughter.
Merely moderately prosperous but inordinately ambitious, she had dared to dream of this famous
wonder-child for her Sarah. Refusal daunted her not, nor did she cease her campaign till, after
trying every species of trick and manœuvre and misrepresentation, every weapon of law and illegality,
she had carried home the reluctant bridegroom. By what unscrupulous warfare she had wrested
him from his last chance of wealth, flourishing a prior marriage-contract in the face of the
rich merchant who unluckily staying the night in her inn, had proudly shown her the document
which betrothed his daughter to the renowned Solomon! The boy's mother dying at this juncture,
the widow had not shrunk from obtaining from the law-courts an attachment on the dead body,
by which its interment was interdicted till the termination of the suit. In vain the rich merchant
had kidnapped the bridegroom in his carriage at dead of night, the boy was pursued and recaptured,
to lead a life of constant quarrel with his mother-in-law, and exchange flying crockery at
meal-times; to take refuge in distant tutorships, and in the course of years, after begetting
several children, to drift further and further, and finally disappear beyond the frontier.

Poor Sarah! He thought of her now with softness. A likeable wench enough, active and sensible,
if with something of her mother's pertinacity. No doubt she was still the widow's right hand
in the public-house. Ah, how handsome she had looked that day when the drunken Prince Radziwil,
in his mad freak at the inn, had set approving eyes upon her: "Really a pretty young woman!
Only she ought to get a white chemise." A formula at which the soberer gentlemen of his train
had given her the hint to clear out of the way.

Now in his despair, the baffled Pilgrim of Knowledge turned yearningly to her image, wept weakly
at the leagues that separated him from all who cared for him. How was David growing up--his
curly-haired first-born; child of his fourteenth year? He must be nearly ten by now, and in
a few years he would be confirmed and become "A Son of the Commandment." A wave of his own
early religious fervor came over him, bringing with it a faint flavor of festival dishes and
far-away echoes of synagogue tunes. Fool, fool, not to be content with the Truth that contented
his fathers, not to rest in the bosom of the wife God had given him. Even his mother-in-law
was suffused with softer tints through the mist of tears. She at least appreciated him, had
fought tooth and nail for him, while these gross Berliners--! He clenched his fists in fury:
the full force of the injustice came home to him afresh; his palms burnt, his brow was racked
with shooting pains. His mind wandered off again to Prince Radziwil and to that day in the
public-house. He saw this capricious ruler marching to visit, with all the pomp of war, a village
not four miles from his residence; first his battalions of infantry, artillery and cavalry,
then his body-guard of volunteers from the poor nobility, then his kitchen-wagons, then his
bands of music, then his royal coach in which he snored, overcome by Hungarian wine, lastly
his train of lackeys. Then he saw his Serene Highness thrown on his mother-in-law's dirty bed,
booted and spurred; for his gentlemen, as they passed the inn, had thought it best to give
his slumbers a more comfortable posture. Here, surrounded by valets, pages, and negroes, he
had snored on all night, while the indomitable widow cooked her meals and chopped her wood
in the very room as usual. And here, in a sooty public-house, with broken windows, and rafters
supported by undressed tree-stems, on a bed swarming with insects--the prince had awoke, and,
naught perturbed, when the thing was explained, had bidden his menials prepare a banquet on
the spot.

Poor Maimon's parched mouth watered now as he thought of that mad bacchanal banquet of choice
wines and dishes, to which princes and lords had sat down on the dirty benches of the public-house.
Goblets were drained in competition to the sound of cannon, and the judges who awarded the
prize to the Prince, were presented by him with estates comprising hundreds of peasants. Maimon
began to shout in imitation of the cannon, in imagination he ran amuck in a synagogue, as he
had seen the prince do, smashing and wrecking everything, tearing the Holy Scrolls from the
Ark and trampling upon them. Yes, they deserved it, the cowardly bigots. Down with the law,
to hell with the Rabbis. A-a-a-h! He would grind the phylacteries under his heel--thus. And
thus! And--

The soldiers perceiving he was in a violent fever, summoned the Jewish overseer, who carried
him back into the poorhouse.

II

Maimon awoke the next morning with a clear and lively mind, and soon understood that he was
sick. "God be thanked," he thought joyfully, "now I shall remain here some days, during which
not only shall I eat but I may hope to prevail upon some kindly visitor to protect me. Perhaps
if I can manage to send a message to Herr Mendelssohn, he will intercede for me. For a scholar
must always have bowels of compassion for a scholar."

These roseate expectations were rudely dusked: the overseer felt Maimon's pulse and his forehead,
and handing him his commentary on the Guide of the Perplexed, convoyed him politely without
the gate. Maimon made no word of protest, he was paralyzed.

"What now, O Guide of the Perplexed?" he cried, stonily surveying his hapless manuscript. "O
Moses, son of Maimon, thou by whom I have sworn so oft, canst thou help me now? See, my pockets
are as empty as the heads of thy adversaries."

He turned out his pockets, and lo! several silver pieces fell out and rolled merrily in the
roadway. "A miracle!" he shouted. Then he remembered that the elders had dismissed him with
them, and that overcome by his sentence he had put them mechanically away. Yes, he had been
treated as a mere beggar. A faint flush of shame tinged his bristly cheek at the thought. True,
he had partaken of the hospitality of strangers, but that was the due meed of his position
as Rabbi, as the free passages to Königsberg and Stettin were tributes to his learning. Never
had he absolutely fallen to schnorring (begging). He shook his fist at the city. He would fling
their money in their faces--some day. Thus swearing, he repocketed the coins, took the first
turning that he met, and abandoned himself to chance. In the mean inn in which he halted for
refreshment he was glad to encounter a fellow-Jew and one in companionable rags.

Maimon made inquiries from him about the roads and whither they led, and gathered with some
surprise that his companion was a professional Schnorrer.

"Are not you?" asked the beggar, equally surprised.

"Certainly not!" cried Maimon angrily.

"What a waste of good rags!" said the Schnorrer.

"What a waste of good muscle!" retorted Maimon; for the beggar was a strapping fellow in rude
health. "If I had your shoulders I should hold my head higher on them."

The Schnorrer shrugged them. "Only fools work. What has work brought you? Rags. You begin with
work and end with rags. I begin with rags and end with meals."

"But have you no self-respect?" cried Maimon, in amaze. "No morality? No religion?"

"I have as much religion as any Schnorrer on the road," replied the beggar, bridling up. "I
keep my Sabbath."

"Yes, indeed," said Maimon, smiling, "our sages say, Rather keep thy Sabbath as a week-day
than beg; you say, Rather keep thy week-day as a Sabbath than be dependent on thyself." To
himself he thought, "That is very witty: I must remember to tell Lapidoth that." And he called
for another glass of whisky.

"Yes; but many of our sages, meseems, are dependent on their womankind. I have dispensed with
woman; must I therefore dispense with support likewise?"

Maimon was amused and shocked in one. He set down his whisky, unsipped. "But he who dispenses
with woman lives in sin. It is the duty of man to beget posterity, to found a home; for what
is civilization but home, and what is home but religion?" The wanderer's tones were earnest;
he forgot his own sins of omission in the lucidity with which his intellect saw the right thing.

"Ah, you are one of the canting ones," said the Schnorrer. "It strikes me you and I could do
something better together than quarrel. What say you to a partnership?"

"In begging?"

"What else have I to offer? You are new to the country--you don't know the roads--you haven't
got any money."

"Pardon me! I have a thaler left."

"No, you haven't--you pay that to me for the partnership."

The metaphysical Maimon was tickled. "But what do I gain for my thaler?"

"My experience."

"But if so, you gain nothing from my partnership."

"A thaler to begin with. Then, you see, your learning and morality will draw when I am at a
loss for quotations. In small villages we go together and produce an impression of widespread
misery: we speak of the destruction of our town by fire, of persecution, what you will. One
beggar might be a liar: two together are martyrs."

"Then you beg only in villages?"

"Oh no. But in towns we divide. You do one half, I do another. Then we exchange halves, armed
with the knowledge of who are the beneficent in either half. It is less fatiguing."

"Then the beneficent have to give twice over."

"They have double merit. Charity breeds charity."

"This is a rare fellow," thought Maimon. "How Lapidoth would delight in him! And he speaks
truth. I know nothing of the country. If I travel a little with him I may learn much. And he,
too, may learn from me. He has a good headpiece, and I may be able to instil into him more
seemly notions of duty and virtue. Besides, what else can I do?" So, spinning his thaler in
air, "Done!" he cried.

The beggar caught it neatly. "Herr Landlord," said he, "another glass of your excellent whisky!"
And, raising it to his lips when it came, "Brother, here's to our partnership."

"What, none for me?" cried Maimon, crestfallen.

"Not till you had begged for it," chuckled the Schnorrer. "You have had your first lesson.
Herr Landlord, yet another glass of your excellent whisky!"

And so the philosopher, whose brain was always twisting and turning the universe and taking
it to pieces, started wandering about Germany with the beggar whose thoughts were bounded by
his paunch. They exploited but a small area, and with smaller success than either had anticipated.
Though now and then they were flush, there was never a regular meal; and too often they had
to make shift with mouldly bread and water, and to lie on stale straw, and even on the bare earth.

"You don't curse enough," the beggar often protested.

"But why should one curse a man who refuses one's request?" the philosopher would persist.
"Besides, he is embittered thereby, and only the more likely to refuse."

"Cork your philosophy, curse you!" the beggar would cry. "How often am I to explain to you
that cursing terrifies people."

"Not at all," Maimon would mutter, terrified.

"No? What is Religion, but Fear?"

"False religion, if you will. But true religion, as Maimonides says, is the attainment of perfection
through the knowledge of God and the imitation of His actions."

Nevertheless, when they begged together, Maimon produced an inarticulate whine that would do
either for a plea or a curse. When he begged alone, all the glib formulæ he had learnt from
the Schnorrer dried up on his tongue. But his silence pleaded more pitifully than his speech.
For he was barefooted and almost naked. Yet amid all these untoward conditions his mind kept
up its interminable twisting and turning of the universe; that acute analysis for which centuries
of over-subtlety had prepared the Polish Jew's brain, and which was now for the first time
applied scientifically to the actual world instead of fantastically to the Bible. And it was
perhaps when he was lying on the bare earth that the riddle of existence--twinkling so defiantly
in the stars--tortured him most keenly.

Thus passed half a year. Maimon had not learnt to beg, nor had the beggar acquired the rudiments
of morality. How often the philosopher longed for his old friend Lapidoth--the grave-digger's
son-in-law--to talk things over with, instead of this carnal vagabond. They had been poverty-stricken
enough, those two, but oh! how differently they had taken the position. He remembered how merrily
Lapidoth had pinned his dropped-off sleeve to the back of his coat, crying, "Don't I look like
a Schlachziz (nobleman)?" and how he in return had vaunted the superiority of his gaping shoes:
"They don't squeeze at the toes." How they had played the cynic, he and the grave-digger's
son-in-law, turning up with remorseless spade the hollow bones of human virtue! As convincedly
as synagogue-elders sought during fatal epidemics for the secret sins of the congregation,
so had they two striven to uncover the secret sinfulness of self-deceived righteousness.

"Bad self-analysis is the foundation of contentment," Lapidoth had summed it up one day, as
they lounged on the town-wall.

To which Maimon: "Then, friend, why are we so content to censure others? Let us be fair and
pass judgment on ourselves. But the contemplative life we lead is merely the result of indolence,
which we gloss over by reflections on the vanity of all things. We are content with our rags.
Why? Because we are too lazy to earn better. We reproach the unscholarly as futile people addicted
to the pleasures of sense. Why? Because, not being constituted like you and me, they live differently.
Where is our superiority, when we merely follow our inclination as they follow theirs? Only
in the fact that we confess this truth to ourselves, while they profess to act, not to satisfy
their particular desires, but for the general utility."

"Friend," Lapidoth had replied, deeply moved, "you are perfectly right. If we cannot now mend
our faults, we will not deceive ourselves about them, but at least keep the way open for amendment."

So they had encouraged each other to clearer vision and nobler living. And from such companionship
to have fallen to a Schnorrer's! Oh, it was unendurable.

But he endured it till harvest-time came round, bringing with it the sacred season of New Year
and Atonement, and the long chilly nights. And then he began to feel tremors of religion and cold.

As they crouched together in outhouses, the beggar snoozing placidly in a stout blouse, the
philosopher shivering in tatters, Maimon saw his degradation more lucidly than ever. They had
now turned their steps towards Poland, every day bringing Maimon nearer to the redeeming influence
of early memories, and it was when sleeping in the Jewish poorhouse at Posen--the master of
which eked out his livelihood honorably as a jobbing tailor--that Maimon at length found strength
to resolve on a breach. He would throw himself before the synagogue door, and either die there
or be relieved. When his companion awoke and began to plan out the day's campaign, "No, I dissolve
the partnership," said he firmly.

"But how are you going to live, you good-for-nothing?" asked his astonished comrade, "you who
cannot even beg."

"God will help," Maimon said stolidly.

"God help you!" said the beggar.

Maimon went off to the school-room. The master was away, and a noisy rabble of boys ceased
their games or their studies to question the tatterdemalion, and to make fun of his Lithuanian
accent--his s's for sh's. Nothing abashed, the philosopher made inquiries after an old friend
of his who, he fortunately recollected, had gone to Posen as the Chief Rabbi's secretary. The
news that the Chief Rabbi had proceeded to another appointment, taking with him his secretary,
reduced him to despair. A gleam of hope broke when he learnt that the secretary's boy had been
left behind in Posen with Dr. Hirsch Janow, the new Chief Rabbi.

And in the event this boy brought salvation. He informed Dr. Hirsch Janow that a great scholar
and a pious man was accidentally fallen into miserable straits; and lo! in a trice the good-hearted
man had sent for Maimon, sounded his scholarship and found it plumbless, approved of his desire
to celebrate the sacred festivals in Posen, given him all the money in his pockets--the indurated
beggar accepted it without a blush--invited him to dine with him every Sabbath, and sent the
boy with him to procure him "a respectable lodging."

As he left the house that afternoon, Maimon could not help overhearing the high-pitched reproaches
of the Rabbitzin (Rabbi's wife).

"There! You've again wasted my housekeeping money on scum and riff-raff. We shall never get
clear of debt."

"Hush! hush!" said the Rabbi gently. "If he hears you, you will wound the feelings of a great
scholar. The money was given to me to distribute."

"That story has a beard," snapped the Rabbitzin.

"He is a great saint," the boy told Maimon on the way. "He fasts every day of the week till
nightfall, and eats no meat save on Sabbath. His salary is small, but everybody loves him far
and wide; he is named 'the keen scholar.'" Maimon agreed with the general verdict. The gentle
emaciated saint had touched old springs of religious feeling, and brought tears of more than
gratitude to his eyes.

His soul for a moment felt the appeal of that inner world created by Israel's heart, that beautiful
world of tenderest love and sternest law, wherein The-Holy-One-Blessed-Be-He (who has chosen
Israel to preach holiness among the peoples), mystically enswathed with praying-shawl and phylacteries,
prays to Himself, "May it be My will that My pity overcome My wrath."

And what was his surprise at finding himself installed, not in some mean garret, but in the
study of one of the leading Jews of the town. The climax was reached when he handed some coppers
to the housewife, and asked her to get him some gruel for supper.

"Nay, nay," said the housewife, smiling. "The Chief Rabbi has not recommended us to sell you
gruel. My husband and my son are both scholars, and so long as you choose to tarry at Posen
they will be delighted if you will honor our table."

Maimon could scarcely believe his ears; but the evidence of a sumptuous supper was irrefusable.
And after that he was conducted to a clean bed! O the luxurious ache of stretching one's broken
limbs on melting feathers! the nestling ecstasy of dainty-smelling sheets after half a year
of outhouses!

It was the supreme felicity of his life. To wallow in such a wave of happiness had never been
his before, was never to be his again. Shallow pates might prate, he told himself, but what
pleasure of the intellect could ever equal that of the senses? Could it possibly pleasure him
as much even to fulfil his early Maimonidean ideal--the attainment of Perfection? Perpending
which problem, the philosopher fell deliciously asleep.

Late, very late, the next morning he dragged himself from his snug cocoon, and called, in response
to a summons, upon his benefactor.

"Well, and how do you like your lodging?" said the gentle Rabbi.

Maimon burst into tears. "I have slept in a bed!" he sobbed, "I have slept in a bed!"

Two days later, clad--out of the Rabbitzin's housekeeping money--in full rabbinical vestments,
with clean linen beneath, the metamorphosed Maimon, cheerful of countenance, and godly of mien,
presented himself at the poorhouse, where the tailor and his wife, as well as his whilom mate--all
of them acquainted with his good fortune--expected him with impatience. The sight of him transported
them. The poor mother took her babe in her arms, and with tears in her eyes begged the Rabbi's
blessings; the beggar besought his forgiveness for his rough treatment, and asked for an alms.

Maimon gave the little one his blessing, and the Schnorrer all he had in his pocket, and went
back deeply affected.

Meantime his fame had spread: all the scholars of the town came to see and chop theology with
this illustrious travelling Rabbi. He became a tutor in a wealthy family: his learning was
accounted superhuman, and he himself almost divine. A doubt he expressed as to the healthiness
of a consumptive-looking child brought him at her death the honors of a prophet. Disavowal
was useless: a new prophet had arisen in Israel.

And so two happy years passed--honorably enough, unless the philosopher's forgetfulness of
his family be counted against him. But little by little his restless brain and body began to
weary of these superstitious surroundings.

It began to leak out that he was a heretic: his rare appearances in the synagogue were noted;
daring sayings of his were darkly whispered; Persecution looked to its weapons.

Maimon's recklessness was whetted in its turn. At the entrance to the Common Hall in Posen
there had been, from time immemorial, a stag-horn fixed into the wall, and an equally immemorial
belief among the Jews that whoso touched it died on the spot. A score of stories in proof were
hurled at the scoffing Maimon. And so, passing the stag-horn one day, he cried to his companions:
"You Posen fools, do you think that any one who touches this horn dies on the spot? See, I
dare to touch it."

Their eyes, dilating with horror, followed his sacrilegious hand. They awaited the thud of
his body. Maimon walked on, smiling.

What had he proved to them? Only that he was a hateful heretic, a profaner of sanctuaries.

The wounded fanaticism that now shadowed him with its hatred provoked him to answering excesses.
The remnant of religion that clung, despite himself, to his soul, irritated him. Would not
further culture rid him of the incubus? His dream of Berlin revived. True, bigotry barked there
too, but culture went on its serene course. The fame and influence of Mendelssohn had grown
steadily, and it was now at its apogee, for Lessing had written Nathan Der Weise, and in the
tempest that followed its production, and despite the ban placed on the play and its author
in both Catholic and Protestant countries, the most fanatical Christian foes of the bold freelance
could not cry that the character was impossible.

For there--in the very metropolis--lived the Sage himself, the David to the dramatist's Jonathan,
the member of the Coffee-House of the Learned, the friend of Prince Lippe-Schaumberg, the King's
own Protected Jew, in every line of whose countenance Lavater kept insisting the unprejudiced
phrenologist might read the soul of Socrates.

And he, Maimon, no less blessed with genius, what had he been doing, to slumber so long on
these soft beds of superstition and barbarism, deaf to that early call of Truth, that youthful
dream of Knowledge? Yes, he would go back to Berlin, he would shake off the clinging mists
of the Ghetto, he would be the pioneer of his people's emancipation. His employers had remained
throughout staunch admirers of his intellect. But despite every protest he bade them farewell,
and purchasing a seat on the Frankfort post with his scanty savings set out for Berlin. No
mendicity committees lay in wait for the prosperous passenger, and as the coach passed through
the Rosenthaler gate, the brave sound of the horn seemed to Maimon at once a flourish of triumph
over Berlin and of defiance to superstition and ignorance.

III

But superstition and ignorance were not yet unhorsed. The Jewish police-officers, though they
allowed coach-gentry to enter and take up their quarters where they pleased, did not fail to
pry into their affairs the next day, as well for the protection of the Jewish community against
equivocal intruders as in accordance with its responsibility to the State.

In his modest lodging on the New-Market, Maimon had to face the suspicious scrutiny of the
most dreaded of these detectives, who was puzzled and provoked by a belief he had seen him
before, "evidently looking on me," as Maimon put it afterwards, "as a comet, which comes nearer
to the earth the second time than the first, and so makes the danger more threatening."

Of a sudden this lynx-eyed bully espied a Hebrew Logic by Maimonides, annotated by Mendelssohn.
"Yes! yes!" he shrieked; "that's the sort of books for me!" and, glaring threateningly at the
philosopher, "Pack," he said. "Pack out of Berlin as quick as you can, if you don't wish to
be led out with all the honors."

Maimon was once more in desperate case. His money was all but exhausted by the journey, and
the outside of the Rosenthaler gate again menaced him. All his sufferings had availed him nothing:
he was back almost at his starting-point.

But fortune favors fools. In a countryman settled at Berlin he found a protector. Then other
admirers of talent and learning boarded and lodged him. The way was now clear for Culture.

Accident determined the line of march. Maimon rescued Wolff's Metaphysics from a butterman
for two groschen. Wolff, he knew, was the pet philosopher of the day. Mendelssohn himself had
been inspired by him--the great brother-Jew with whom he might now hope some day to talk face
to face.

Maimon was delighted with his new treasure--such mathematical exposition, such serried syllogisms--till
it came to theology. "The Principle of Sufficient Reason"--yes, it was a wonderful discovery.
But as proving God? No--for that there was not Sufficient Reason. Nor could Maimon harmonize
these new doctrines with his Maimonides or his Aristotle. Happy thought! He would set forth
his doubts in Hebrew, he would send the manuscript to Herr Mendelssohn. Flushed by the hope
of the great man's acquaintance, he scribbled fervidly and posted the manuscript.

He spent a sleepless night.

Would the lion of Berlin take any notice of an obscure Polish Jew? Maimon was not left in suspense.
Mendelssohn replied by return. He admitted the justice of his correspondent's doubts, but begged
him not to be discouraged by them, but to continue his studies with unabated zeal. O, judge
in Israel! Nathan Der Weise, indeed.

Fired with such encouragement, Maimon flung himself into a Hebrew dissertation that should
shatter all these theological cobwebs, that by an uncompromising Ontology should bring into
doubt the foundations of Revealed as well as of Natural Theology. It was a bold thing to do,
for since he was come to Berlin, and had read more of his books, he had gathered that Mendelssohn
still professed Orthodox Judaism. A paradox this to Maimon, and roundly denied as impossible
when he first heard of it. A man who could enter the lists with the doughtiest champions of
Christendom, whose German prose was classical, who could philosophize in Socratic dialogue
after the fashion of Plato--such a man a creature of the Ghetto! Doubtless he took his Judaism
in some vague Platonic way; it was impossible to imagine him the literal bond-slave of that
minute ritual, winding phylacteries round his left arm or shaking himself in a praying-shawl.
Anyhow here--in logical lucid Hebrew--were Maimon's doubts and difficulties. If Mendelssohn
was sincere, let him resolve them, and earn the blessings of a truly Jewish soul. If he was
unable to answer them, let him give up his orthodoxy, or be proved a fraud and a time-server.
Amicus Mendelssohn sed magis amica veritas.

In truth there was something irritating to the Polish Jew in the great German's attitude, as
if it held some latent reproach of his own. Only a shallow thinker, he felt, could combine
culture and spiritual comfort, to say nothing of worldly success. He had read the much-vaunted
Phœdon which Lutheran Germany hailed as a counterblast to the notorious "Berlin religion,"
restoring faith to a despondent world mocked out of its Christian hopes by the fashionable
French wits and materialists under the baneful inspiration of Voltaire, whom Germany's own
Frederick had set on high in his Court. But what a curious assumption for a Jewish thinker
to accept, that unless we are immortal, our acts in this world are of no consequence! Was not
he, Maimon, leading a high-minded life in pursuit of Truth, with no such hope? "If our soul
were mortal, then Reason would be a dream, which Jupiter has sent us in order that we might
forget our misery; and we should be like the beasts, only to seek food and die." Nonsense!
Rhetoric! True, his epistles to Lavater were effective enough, there was courage in his public
refusal of Christianity, nobility in his sentiment that he preferred to shame anti-Jewish prejudice
by character rather than by controversy. He, Maimon, would prefer to shame it by both. But
this Jerusalem of Mendelssohn's! Could its thesis really be sustained? Judaism laid no yoke
upon belief, only on conduct? was no reason-confounding dogma? only a revealed legislation?
A Jew gave his life to the law and his heart to Germany! Or France, or Holland, or the Brazils
as the case might be? Palestine must be forgotten. Well, it was all bold and clever enough,
but was it more than a half-way house to assimilation with the peoples? At any rate here was
a Polish brother's artillery to meet--more deadly than that of Lavater, or the stupid Christians.

Again, but with acuter anxiety, he awaited Mendelssohn's reply.

It came--an invitation for next Saturday afternoon. Aha! The outworks were stormed. The great
man recognized in him a worthy foe, a brother in soul. Gratitude and vanity made the visit
a delightful anticipation. What a wit-combat it would be! How he would marshal his dialectic
epigrams! If only Lapidoth could be there to hear!

As the servant threw open the door for him, revealing a suite of beautiful rooms and a fine
company of gentlefolks, men with powdered wigs and ladies with elegant toilettes, Maimon started
back with a painful shock. An under-consciousness of mud-stained boots and a clumsily cut overcoat,
mixed itself painfully with this impression of pretty, scented women, and the clatter of tongues
and coffee-cups. He stood rooted to the threshold in a sudden bitter realization that the great
world cared nothing about metaphysics. Ease, fine furniture, a position in the world--these
were the things that counted. Why had all his genius brought him none of these things? Wifeless,
childless, moneyless, he stood, a solitary soul wrestling with problems. How had Mendelssohn
managed to obtain everything? Doubtless he had had a better start, a rich father, a University
training. His resentment against the prosperous philosopher rekindled. He shrank back and closed
the door. But it was opened instantly again from within. A little hunchback with shining eyes
hurried towards him.

"Herr Maimon?" he said inquiringly, holding out his hand with a smile of welcome.

Startled, Maimon laid his hand without speaking in that cordial palm. So this was the man he
had envied. No one had ever told him that "Nathan der Weise" was thus afflicted. It was as
soul that he had appealed to the imagination of the world; even vulgar gossip had been silent
about his body. But how this deformity must embitter his success.

Mendelssohn coaxed him within, complimenting him profusely on his writings: he was only too
familiar with these half-shy, half-aggressive young Poles, whose brains were bursting with
heretical ideas and sick fantasies. They brought him into evil odor with his orthodox brethren,
did these "Jerusalem Werthers," but who should deal with them, if not he that understood them,
that could handle them delicately? What was to Maimon a unique episode was to his host an everyday
experience.

Mendelssohn led Maimon to the embrasure of a window: he brought him refreshments--which the
young man devoured uncouthly--he neglected his fashionable guests, whose unceasing French babble
proclaimed their ability to get on by themselves, to gain an insight into this gifted young
man's soul. He regarded each new person as a complicated piece of wheelwork, which it was the
wise man's business to understand and not be angry with. But having captured the secret of
the mechanism, it was one's duty to improve it on its own lines.

"Your dissertation displays extraordinary acumen, Herr Maimon," he said. "Of course you still
suffer from the Talmudic method or rather want of method. But you have a real insight into
metaphysical problems. And yet you have only read Wolff! You are evidently not a Chamor nosé
Sefarim (a donkey bearing books)." He used the Hebrew proverb to make the young Pole feel at
home, and a half smile hovered around his sensitive lips. Even his German took on a winning
touch of jargon in vocabulary and accentuation, though to kill the jargon was one of the ideals
of his life.

"Nay, Herr Mendelssohn," replied Maimon modestly; "you must not forget The Guide of the Perplexed.
It was the inspiration of my youth!"

"Was it?" cried Mendelssohn delightedly. "So it was of mine. In fact I tell the Berliners Maimonides
was responsible for my hump, and some of them actually believe I got it bending over him."

This charming acceptance of his affliction touched the sensitive Maimon and put him more at
ease than even the praise of his writings and the fraternal vocabulary. "In my country," he
said, "a perfect body is thought to mark the fool of the family! They believe the finest souls
prefer to inhabit imperfect tenements."

Mendelssohn bowed laughingly. "An excellently turned compliment! At this rate you will soon
shine in our Berlin society. And how long is it since you left Poland?"

"Alas! I have left Poland more than once. I should have had the honor and the happiness of
making your acquaintance earlier, had I not been stopped at the Rosenthaler gate three years ago."

"At the Rosenthaler gate! If I had only known!"

The tears came into Maimon's eyes--tears of gratitude, of self-pity, of regret for the lost
years. He was on his feet now, he felt, and his feet were on the right road. He had found a
powerful protector at last. "Think of my disappointment," he said tremulously, "after travelling
all the way from Poland."

"Yes, I know. I was all but stopped at the gate myself," said Mendelssohn musingly.

"You?"

"Yes--when I was a lad."

"Aren't you a native of Berlin, then?"

"No, I was born in Dessau. Not so far to tramp from as Poland. But still a goodish stretch.
It took me five days--I am not a Hercules like you--and had I not managed to stammer out that
I wished to enrol myself among the pupils of Dr. Frankel, the new Chief Rabbi of the city,
the surly Cerberus would have slammed the gate in my face. My luck was that Frankel had come
from Dessau, and had been my teacher. I remember standing on a hillock crying as he was leaving
for Berlin, and he took me in his arms and said I should also go to Berlin some day. So when
I appeared he had to make the best of it."

"Then you had nothing from your parents?"

"Only a beautiful handwriting from my father which got me copying jobs for a few groschens
and is now the joy of the printers. He was a scribe, you know, and wrote the Scrolls of the
Law. But he wanted me to be a pedlar."

"A pedlar!" cried Maimon, open-eyed.

"Yes, the money would come in at once, you see. I had quite a fight to persuade him I would
do better as a Rabbi. I fear I was a very violent and impatient youngster. He didn't at all
believe in my Rabbinical future. And he was right after all--for a member of a learned guild,
Jewish or Christian, have I never been."

"You had a hard time, then, when you came to Berlin?" said Maimon sympathetically.

Mendelssohn's eyes had for an instant an inward look, then he quoted gently, "Bread with salt
shalt thou eat, water by measure shalt thou drink, upon the hard earth shalt thou sleep, and
a life of anxiousness shalt thou live, and labor in the study of the law!"

Maimon thrilled at the quotation: the fine furniture and the fine company faded, and he saw
only the soul of a fellow-idealist to which these things were but unregarded background.

"Ah yes," went on Mendelssohn. "You are thinking I don't look like a person who once notched
his loaf into sections so as not to eat too much a day. Well, let it console you with the thought
that there's a comfortable home in Berlin waiting for you, too."

Poor Maimon stole a glance at the buxom, blue-eyed matron doing the honors of her salon so
gracefully, assisted by two dazzling young ladies in Parisian toilettes--evidently her daughters--and
he groaned at the thought of his peasant-wife and his uncouth, superstition-swaddled children:
decidedly he must give Sarah a divorce.

"I can't delude myself with such day-dreams," he said hopelessly.

"Wait! Wait! So long as you don't day-dream your time away. That is the danger with you clever
young Poles--you are such dreamers. Everything in this life depends on steadiness and patience.
When we first set up hospitality, Fromet--my wife--and I, we had to count the almonds and raisins
for dessert. You see, we only began with a little house and garden in the outskirts, the main
furniture of which," he said, laughing at the recollection, "was twenty china apes, life-size."

"Twenty china apes!"

"Yes, like every Jewish bridegroom, I had to buy a quantity of china for the support of the
local manufactory, and that was what fell to me. Ah, my friend, what have not the Jews of Germany
to support! The taxes are still with us, but the Rishus (malice)"--again he smiled confidentially
at the Hebrew-jargon word--"is less every day. Why, a Jew couldn't walk the streets of Berlin
without being hooted and insulted, and my little ones used to ask, 'Father, is it wicked to
be a Jew?' I thank the Almighty that at the end of my days I have lived to see the Jewish question
raised to a higher plane."

"I should rather thank you," cried Maimon, with sceptical enthusiasm.

"Me?" said Mendelssohn, with the unfeigned modesty of the man who, his every public utterance
having been dragged out of him by external compulsion, retains his native shyness and is alone
in ignorance of his own influence. "No, no, it is Montesquieu, it is Dohm, it is my dear Lessing.
Poor fellow, the Christian bigots are at him now like a plague of stinging insects. I almost
wish he hadn't written Nathan der Weise. I am glad to reflect I didn't instigate him, nay,
that he had written a play in favor of the Jews ere we met."

"How did you come to know him?"

"I hardly remember. He was always fond of outcasts--a true artistic temperament, that preferred
to consort with actors and soldiers rather than with the beer-swilling middle-class of Berlin.
Oh yes, I think we met over a game of chess. Then we wrote an essay on Pope together. Dear
Gotthold! What do I not owe him? My position in Berlin, my feeling for literature--for we Jews
have all stifled our love for the beautiful and grown dead to poetry."

"Well, but what is a poet but a liar?"

"Ah, my dear Herr Maimon, you will grow out of that. I must lend you Homer. Intellectual speculation
is not everything. For my part, I have never regretted withdrawing a portion of my love from
the worthy matron, philosophy, in order to bestow it on her handmaid, belles-lettres. I am
sorry to use a French word, but for once there's no better. You smile to see a Jew more German
than the Germans."

"No, I smile to hear what sounds like French all round! I remember reading in your Philosophical
Conversations your appeal to the Germans not to exchange their own gold for the tinsel of their
neighbors."

"Yes, but what can one do? It is a Berlin mania; and, you know, the King himself.... Our Jewish
girls first caught it to converse with the young gallants who came a-borrowing of their fathers,
but the influence of my dear daughters--there, the beautiful one is Dorothea, the eldest, and
that other, who takes more after me, is Henrietta--their influence is doing much to counteract
the wave of flippancy and materialism. But fancy any one still reading my Philosophical Conversations--my
'prentice work. I had no idea of printing it. I lent the manuscript to Lessing, observing jestingly
that I, too, could write like Shaftesbury, the Englishman. And lo! the next time I met him
he handed me the proofs. Dear Gotthold."

"Is it true that the King--?"

"Sent for me to Potsdam to scold me? You are thinking of another matter. That was in my young
days." He smiled and lowered his voice. "I ventured to hint in a review that His Majesty's
French verses--I am glad by the way he has lived to write some against Voltaire--were not perfection.
I thought I had wrapped up my meaning beyond royal comprehension. But a malicious courtier,
the preacher Justi, denounced me as a Jew who had thrown aside all reverence for the most sacred
person of His Majesty. I was summoned to Sans-Souci and--with a touch of Rishus (malice)--on
a Saturday. I managed to be there without breaking my Shabbos (Sabbath)."

"Then he does keep Sabbath!" thought Maimon, in amaze.

"But, as you may imagine, I was not as happy as a bear with honey. However, I pleaded that
he who makes verses plays at nine-pins, and he who plays at nine-pins, be he monarch or peasant,
must be satisfied with the judgment of the boy who has charge of the bowls."

"And you are still alive!"

"To the annoyance of many people. I fancy His Majesty was ashamed to punish me before the French
cynics of his court, and I know on good authority that it was because the Marquis D'Argens
was astonished to learn that I could be driven out of Berlin at any moment by the police that
the King made me a Schutz-Jude (protected Jew). So I owe something to the French after all.
My friends had long been urging me to sue for protection, but I thought, as I still think,
that one ought not to ask for any rights which the humblest Jew could not enjoy. However, a
king's gift horse one cannot look in the mouth. And now you are to become my Schutz-Jude"--Maimon's
heart beat gratefully--"and the question is, what do you propose to do in Berlin? What is the
career that is to bring you a castle and a princess?"

"I wish to study medicine."

"Good. It is the one profession a Jew may enter here; though, you must know, however great
a practice you may attain--even among the Christians--they will never publish your name in
the medical list. Still, we must be thankful for small mercies. In Frankfort the Jewish doctors
are limited to four, in other towns to none. We must hand you over to Dr. Herz--there, that
man who is laughing so, over one of his own good things, no doubt--that is Dr. Herz, and the
beautiful creature is his wife, Henrietta, who is founding a Goethe salon. She and my daughters
are inseparable--a Jewish trinity. And so, Herr Physician, I extend to you the envious congratulations
of a book-keeper."

"But you are not a book-keeper!"

"Not now, but that was what I began as--or rather, what I drifted into, for I was Talmudical
tutor in his family, when my dear Herr Bernhardt proposed it to me. And I am not sorry. For
it left me plenty of time to learn Latin and Greek and mathematics, and finally landed me in
a partnership. Still I have always been a race-horse burdened with a pack, alas! I don't mean
my hump, but the factory still steals a good deal of my time and brains, and if I didn't rise
at five--But you have made me quite egoistic--it is the resemblance of our young days that
has touched the spring of memories. But come! let me introduce you to my wife and my son Abraham.
Ah, see, poor Fromet is signalling to me. She is tired of being left to battle single-handed.
Would you not like to know M. de Mirabeau? Or let me introduce you to Wessely--he will talk
to you in Hebrew. It is Wessely who does all the work for which I am praised--it is he who
is elevating our Jewish brethren, with whom I have not the heart nor the courage to strive.
Or there is Nicolai, the founder of 'The Library of the Fine Arts,' to which," he added with
a sly smile, "I hope yet to see you contributing. Perhaps Fräulein Reimarus will convert you--that
charming young lady there talking with her brother-in-law, who is a Danish state-councillor.
She is the great friend of Lessing--as I live, there comes Lessing himself. I am sure he would
like the pleasure of your acquaintance."

"Because he likes outcasts? No, no, not yet," and Maimon, whose mood had been growing dark
again, shrank back, appalled by these great names. Yes, he was a dreamer and a fool, and Mendelssohn
was a sage, indeed. In his bitterness he distrusted even his own Dissertation, his uncompromising
logic, destructive of all theology. Perhaps Mendelssohn was right: perhaps he had really solved
the Jewish problem. To be a Jew among Germans, and a German among Jews: to reconcile the old
creed with Culture: to hold up one's head, and assert oneself as an honorable element in the
nation--was not this catholic gathering a proof of the feasibility of such an ideal? Good sense!
What true self-estimate as well as wit in the sage's famous retort to the swaggering German
officer who asked him what commodity he dealt in. "In that which you appear to need--good sense."
Maimon roused himself to listen to the conversation. It changed to German under the impulse
of the host, who from his umpire's chair controlled it with play of eye, head, or hand; and
when appealed to, would usually show that both parties were fighting about words, not things.
Maimon noted from his semi-obscure retreat that the talk grew more serious and connected, touched
problems. He saw that for Mendelssohn as for himself nothing really existed but the great questions.
Flippant interruptions the sage seemed to disregard, and if the topic dribbled out into irrelevancies
he fell silent. Maimon studied the noble curve of his forehead, the decided nose, the prominent
lips, in the light of Herr Lavater's theories. Lessing said little: he had the air of a broken
man. The brilliant life of the culture-warrior was closing in gloom--wife, child, health, money,
almost reputation, gone: the nemesis of genius.

At one point a lady strove to concentrate attention upon herself by accusing herself of faults
of character. Even Maimon understood she was angling for compliments. But Mendelssohn gravely
bade her mend her faults, and Maimon saw Lessing's harassed eyes light up for the first time
with a gleam of humor. Then the poet, as if roused to recollection, pulled out a paper, "I
almost forgot to give you back Kant's letter," he said. "You are indeed to be congratulated."

Mendelssohn blushed like a boy, and made a snatch at the letter, but Lessing jestingly insisted
on reading it to the company.

"I consider that in your Jerusalem you have succeeded in combining our religion with such a
degree of freedom of conscience, as was never imagined possible, and of which no other faith
can boast. You have at the same time so thoroughly and so clearly demonstrated the necessity
of unlimited liberty of conscience, that ultimately our Church will also be led to reflect
how it should remove from its midst everything that disturbs and oppresses conscience, which
will finally unite all men in their view of the essential points of religion."

There was an approving murmur throughout the company. "Such a letter would compensate me for
many more annoyances than my works have brought me," said Mendelssohn. "And to think," he added
laughingly, "that I once beat Kant in a prize competition. A proof of the power of lucid expression
over profound thought. And that I owe to your stimulus, Lessing."

The poet made a grimace. "You accuse me of stimulating superficiality!"

There was a laugh.

"Nay, I meant you have torn away the thorns from the roses of philosophy! If Kant would only
write like you--"

"He might understand himself," flashed the beautiful Henrietta Herz.

"And lose his disciples," added her husband. "That is really, Herr Mendelssohn, why we pious
Jews are so angry with your German translation of the Bible--you make the Bible intelligible."

"Yes, they have done their best to distort it," sighed Mendelssohn. "But the fury my translation
arouses among the so-called wise men of the day, is the best proof of its necessity. When I
first meditated producing a plain Bible in good German, I had only the needs of my own children
at heart, then I allowed myself to be persuaded it might serve the multitude, now I see it
is the Rabbis who need it most. But centuries of crooked thinking have deadened them to the
beauties of the Bible: they have left it behind them as elementary, when they have not themselves
coated it with complexity. Subtle misinterpretation is everything, a beautiful text, nothing.
And then this corrupt idiom of theirs--than which nothing more corrupts a nation--they have
actually invested this German jargon with sanctity, and I am a wolf in sheep's clothing for
putting good German in Hebrew letters. Even the French Jews, Cerf Berr tells me, think bad
German holy. To say nothing of Austria."

"Wait, wait!" said an eager-eyed man; "the laws of the Emperor Joseph will change all that--once
the Jews of Vienna are forced to go to school with the sciences, they will become an honored
element of the nation."

Mendelssohn shook a worldly-wise head. "Not so fast, my dear Wessely, not so fast. Your Hebrew
Ode to the Austrian Emperor was unimpeachable as poetry, but, I fear, visionary as history.
Who knows that this is more than a temporary political move?"

"And we pious Jews," put in Dr. Herz, smiling, "you forget, Herr Wessely, we are not so easily
schooled. We have never forgiven our Mendelssohn for saying our glorious religion had accumulated
cobwebs. It is the cobwebs we love, not the port."

"Yes, indeed," broke in Maimon, so interested that he forgot his own jargon, to say nothing
of his attire. "When I was in Poland, I crawled nicely into mud, through pointing out that
they ought not to turn to the east in praying, because Jerusalem, which, in accordance with
Talmudic law, they turned to, couldn't lie due east of everywhere. In point of fact we were
north-west, so that they should have turned"--his thumbs began to turn and his voice to take
on the Talmudic sing-song--"south-east. I told them it was easy in each city to compute the
exact turning, by corners and circles--"

"By spherical trigonometry, certainly," said Mendelssohn pleasantly. Maimon, conscious of a
correction, blushed and awoke to find himself the centre of observation. His host made haste
to add, "You remind me of the odium I incurred by agreeing with the Duke of Mecklenburg-Schwerin's
edict, that we should not bury our dead before the third day. And this in spite of my proofs
from the Talmud! Dear, dear, if the Rabbis were only as anxious to bury dead ideas as dead
bodies!" There was a general smile, but Maimon said boldly--

"I think you treat them far too tolerantly."

"What, Herr Maimon," and Mendelssohn smiled the half-sad smile of the sage, who has seen the
humors of the human spectacle and himself as part of it--"would you have me rebuke intolerance
by intolerance? I will admit that when I was your age--and of an even hotter temper--I could
have made a pretty persecutor. In those days I contributed to the mildest of sheets, 'The Moral
Preacher,' we young blades called it. But because it didn't reek of religion, on every page
the pious scented atheism. I could have whipped the dullards or cried with vexation. Now I
see intolerance is a proof of earnestness as well as of stupidity. It is well that men should
be alert against the least rough breath on the blossoms of faith they cherish. The only criticism
that still has power to annoy me is that of the timid, who fear it is provoking persecution
for a Jew to speak out. But for the rest, opposition is the test-furnace of new ideas. I do
my part in the world, it is for others to do theirs. As soon as I had yielded my translation
to friend Dubno, to be printed, I took my soul in my hands, raised my eyes to the mountains,
and gave my back to the smiters. All the same I am sorry it is the Rabbi of Posen who is launching
these old-fashioned thunders against the German Pentateuch of "Moses of Dessau," for both as
a Talmudist and mathematician Hirsch Janow has my sincere respect. Not in vain is he styled
'the keen scholar,' and from all I hear he is a truly good man."

"A saint!" cried Maimon enthusiastically, again forgetting his shyness. His voice faltered
as he drew a glowing panegyric of his whilom benefactor, and pictured him as about to die in
the prime of life, worn out by vigils and penances. In a revulsion of feeling, fresh stirrings
of doubt of the Mendelssohnian solution agitated his soul. Though he had but just now denounced
the fanatics, he was conscious of a strange sympathy with this lovable ascetic who fasted every
day, torturing equally his texts and himself, this hopeless mystic for whom there could be
no bridge to modern thought; all the Polish Jew in him revolted irrationally against the new
German rationalism. No, no; it must be all or nothing. Jewish Catholicism was not to be replaced
by Jewish Protestantism. These pathetic zealots, clinging desperately to the past, had a deeper
instinct, a truer prevision of the future, than this cultured philosopher.

"Yes, what you tell me of Hirsch Janow goes with all I have heard," said Mendelssohn calmly.
"But I put my trust in time and the new generation. I will wager that the translation I drew
up for my children will be read by his."

Maimon happened to be looking over Mendelssohn's shoulder at his charming daughters in their
Parisian toilettes. He saw them exchange a curious glance that raised their eyebrows sceptically.
With a flash of insight he caught their meaning. Mendelssohn seeking an epigram had stumbled
into a dubious oracle.

"The translation I drew up for my children will be read by his."

By his, perhaps.

But by my own?

Maimon shivered with an apprehension of tragedy. Perhaps it was his Dissertation that Mendelssohn's
children would read. He remembered suddenly that Mendelssohn had said no word to its crushing
logic.

As he was taking his leave, he put the question point-blank. "What have you to say to my arguments?"

"You are not in the right road at present," said Mendelssohn, holding his hand amicably, "but
the course of your inquiries must not be checked. Doubt, as Descartes rightly says, is the
beginning of philosophical speculation."

He left the Polish philosopher on the threshold, agitated by a medley of feelings.

IV

This mingled attitude of Maimon the Fool towards Nathan the Wise continued till the death of
the Sage plunged Berlin into mourning, and the Fool into vain regrets for his fits of disrespect
towards one, the great outlines of whose character stood for ever fixed by the chisel of death.

Too often had he lost his temper--particularly when Spinoza was the theme--and had all but
accused Mendelssohn of dishonesty. Was not Truth the highest ideal? And was not Spinoza as
irrefutable as Euclid. What! Could the emancipated intellect really deny that marvellous thinker,
who, after a century of unexampled obloquy, was the acknowledged prophet of the God of the
future, the inspirer of Goethe, and all that was best in modern thought! But no, Mendelssohn
held stubbornly to his own life-system, never would admit that his long spiritual happiness
had been based on a lie. It was highly unreasonable and annoying of him, and his formula for
closing discussions, "We must hold fast not to words but to the things they signify," was exasperatingly
answerable. How strange that after the restless Maimon had of himself given up Spinoza, the
Sage's last years should have been clouded by the alleged Spinozism of his dear dead Lessing.

But now that the Sage himself was dead, the Fool remembered his infinite patience--the patience
not of bloodlessness, but of a passionate soul that has conquered itself--not to be soured
by a fool's disappointing career, nor even by his bursts of profligacy.

For Maimon's life held many more vicissitudes, but the profession of medicine was never of
them. "I require of every man of sound mind that he should lay out for himself a plan of action,"
said the philosopher; and wandered to Breslau, to Amsterdam, to Potsdam, the parasite of protectors,
the impecunious hack of publishers, the rebel of manners, the ingenious and honored metaphysician.
When Kant declared he was the only one of his critics that understood The Critique of Pure
Reason, Maimon returned to Berlin to devote himself to the philosophical work that was to give
him a pinnacle apart among the Kantians. Goethe and Schiller made flattering advances to him.
Berlin society was at his feet. But he remained to the end, shiftless and feckless, uncouth
and unmanageable, and not seldom when the taverns he frequented were closed, he would wander
tipsily through the sleeping streets meditating suicide, or arguing metaphysics with expostulant
watchmen.

"For all his mathematics," a friend said of him, "he never seems to think of the difference
between plus and minus in money matters." "People like you, there's no use trying to help,"
said another, worn-out, when Maimon pleaded for only a few coppers. Yet he never acquired the
beggar's servility, nay, was often himself the patron of some poorer hanger-on, for whom he
would sacrifice his last glass of beer. Curt in his manners, he refused to lift his hat or
embrace his acquaintances in cold blood. Nor would he wear a wig. Pure Reason alone must rule.

So, clad in an all-concealing overcoat, the unshaven philosopher might be seen in a coffee-house
or on an ale-house bench, scribbling at odd moments his profound essays on Transcendental Philosophy,
the leaves flying about and losing themselves, and the thoughts as ill-arranged, for the Hebrew
Talmudical manner still clung to his German writing as to his talking, so that the body swayed
rhythmically, his thumb worked and his voice chanted the sing-song of piety to ideas that would
have paralyzed the Talmud school. It was in like manner that when he lost a game of chess or
waxed hot in argument, his old Judean-Polish mother jargon came back to him. His old religion
he had shed completely, yet a synagogue-tune could always move him to tears. Sometimes he might
be seen at the theatre, sobbing hysterically at tragedies or laughing boisterously over comedies,
for he had long since learned to love Homer and the humane arts, though at first he was wont
to contend that no vigor of literary expression could possibly excel his mother-in-law's curses.
Not that he ever saw her again: his wife and eldest son tracked him to Breslau, but only in
quest of ducats and divorce: the latter of which Maimon conceded after a legal rigmarole. But
he took no advantage of his freedom. A home of his own he never possessed, save an occasional
garret where he worked at an unsteady table--one leg usually supported by a folio volume--surrounded
by the cats and dogs whom he had taken to solacing himself with. And even if lodged in a nobleman's
palace, his surroundings were no cleaner. In Amsterdam he drove the Dutch to despair: even
German housekeepers were stung to remonstrance. Yet the charm of his conversation, the brilliancy
of his intellect kept him always well-friended. And the fortune which favors fools watched
over his closing years, and sent the admiring Graf Kalkreuth, an intellectual Silesian nobleman,
to dig him out of miserable lodgings, and instal him in his own castle near Freistadt.

As he lay upon his luxurious death-bed in the dreary November dusk, dying at forty-six of a
neglected lung-trouble, a worthy Catholic pastor strove to bring him to a more Christian frame
of mind.

"What matters it?" protested the sufferer; "when I am dead, I am gone."

"Can you say that, dear friend," rejoined the Pastor, with deep emotion. "How? Your mind, which
amid the most unfavorable circumstances ever soared to higher attainments, which bore such
fair flowers and fruits--shall it be trodden in the dust along with the poor covering in which
it has been clothed? Do you not feel at this moment that there is something in you which is
not body, not matter, not subject to the conditions of space and time?"

"Ah!" replied Maimon, "there are beautiful dreams and hopes--"

"Which will surely be fulfilled. Should you not wish to come again into the society of Mendelssohn?"

Maimon was silent.

Suddenly the dying man cried out, "Ay me! I have been a fool, the most foolish among the most
foolish." The thought of Nathan the Wise was indeed as a fiery scourge. Too late he realized
that the passion for Truth had destroyed him. Knowledge alone was not sufficient for life.
The will and the emotions demanded their nutriment and exercise as well as the intellect. Man
was not made merely to hunt an abstract formula, pale ghost of living realities.

"To seek for Truth"--yes, it was one ideal. But there remained also--as the quotation went
on which Mendelssohn's disciples had chosen as their motto--"To love the beautiful, to desire
the good, to do the best." Mendelssohn with his ordered scheme of harmonious living, with his
equal grasp of thought and life, sanely balanced betwixt philosophy and letters, learning and
business, according so much to Hellenism, yet not losing hold of Hebraism, and adjusting with
equal mind the claims of the Ghetto and the claims of Culture, Mendelssohn shone before Maimon's
dying eyes, as indeed the Wise.

The thinker had a last gleam of satisfaction in seeing so lucidly the springs of his failure
as a human being. Happiness was the child of fixedness--in opinions, in space. Soul and body
had need of a centre, a pivot, a home.

He had followed the hem of Truth to the mocking horizon: he had in turn fanatically adopted
every philosophical system Peripatetic, Spinozist, Leibnozist, Leibnitzian, Kantian--and what
did he know now he was going beyond the horizon? Nothing. He had won a place among the thinkers
of Germany. But if he could only have had his cast-off son to close his dying eyes, and could
only have believed in the prayers his David would have sobbed out, how willingly would he have
consented to be blotted out from the book of fame. A Passover tune hummed in his brain, sad,
sweet tears sprang to his eyes--yea, his soul found more satisfaction in a meaningless melody
charged with tremulous memories of childhood, than in all the philosophies.

A melancholy synagogue refrain quavered on his lips, his soul turned yearningly towards these
ascetics and mystics, whose life was a voluntary martyrdom to a misunderstood righteousness,
a passionate sacrifice to a naïve conception of the cosmos. The infinite pathos of their lives
touched him to forgetfulness of his own futility. His soul went out to them, but his brain
denied him the comfort of their illusions.

He set his teeth and waited for death.

The Pastor spoke again: "Yes, you have been foolish. But that you say so now shows your soul
is not beyond redemption. Christ is ever on the threshold."

Maimon made an impatient gesture. "You asked me if I should not like to see Mendelssohn again.
How do you suppose I could face him, if I became a Christian?"

"You forget, my dear Maimon, he knows the Truth now. Must he not rejoice that his daughters
have fallen upon the bosom of the Church?"

Maimon sat up in bed with a sudden shock of remembrance that set him coughing.

"Dorothea, but not Henrietta?" he gasped painfully.

"Henrietta too. Did you not know? And Abraham Mendelssohn also has just had his boy Felix baptized--a
wonder-child in music, I hear."

Maimon fell back on his pillow, overcome with emotions and thoughts. The tragedy latent in
that smile of the sisters had developed itself.

He had long since lost touch with Berlin, ceased to interest himself in Judaism, its petty
politics, but now his mind pieced together vividly all that had reached him of the developments
of the Jewish question since Mendelssohn's death: the battle of old and new, grown so fierce
that the pietists denied the reformers Jewish burial; young men scorning their fathers and
crying, "Culture, Culture; down with the Ghetto"; many in the reaction from the yoke of three
thousand years falling into braggart profligacy, many more into fashionable Christianity. And
the woman of the new generation no less apostate, Henrietta Herz bringing beautiful Jewesses
under the fascination of brilliant Germans and the romantic movement, so that Mendelssohn's
own daughter, Dorothea, had left her husband and children to live with Schlegel, and the immemorial
chastity of the Jewess was undermined. And instead of the honorable estimation of his people
Mendelssohn had worked for, a violent reaction against the Jews, fomented spiritually by Schleiermacher
with his "transcendental Christianity," and politically by Gentz with his cry of "Christian
Germany": both men lions of the Jewish-Christian Salon which Mendelssohn had made possible.
And the only Judaism that stood stable amid this flux, the ancient rock of Rabbinism he had
sought to dislodge, the Amsterdam Jewry refusing even the civil rights for which he had fought.

"Poor Mendelssohn!" thought the dying Maimon. "Which was the Dreamer after all, he or I? Well
for him, perhaps, that his Phœdon is wrong, that he will never know."

The gulf between them vanished, and in a last flash of remorseless insight he saw himself and
Mendelssohn at one in the common irony of human destiny.

He murmured: "And how dieth the wise? As the fool."

"What do you say?" said the Pastor.

"It is a verse from the Bible."

"Then are you at peace?"

"I am at peace."

FROM A MATTRESS GRAVE

    ["I am a Jew, I am a Christian. I am tragedy, I am
    comedy--Heraclitus and Democritus in one: a Greek, a Hebrew: an
    adorer of despotism as incarnate in Napoleon, an admirer of
    communism as embodied in Proudhon; a Latin, a Teuton; a beast, a
    devil, a god."

The concierge, knitting beside the porte cochère, looked at him, looked at the glittering victoria
he represented, and at the grande dame who sat in it, shielding herself with a parasol from
the glory of the Parisian sunlight. Then she shook her head.

"But this is number three, Avenue Matignon?"

"Yes, but Monsieur receives only his old friends. He is dying."

"Madame knows. Take up her name.'"

The concierge glanced at the elegant card. She saw "Lady"--which she imagined meant an English
Duchesse--and words scribbled on it in pencil.

"It is au cinquième," she said, with a sigh.

"I will take it up."

Ere he returned, Madame descended and passed from the sparkling sunshine into the gloom of
the portico, with a melancholy consciousness of the symbolic. For her spirit, too, had its
poetic intuitions and insights, and had been trained by friendship with one of the wittiest
and tenderest women of her time to some more than common apprehension of the greater spirit
at whose living tomb she was come to worship. Hers was a fine face, wearing the triple aristocracy
of beauty, birth, and letters. The complexion was of lustreless ivory, the black hair wound
round and round. The stateliness of her figure completed the impression of a Roman matron.

"Monsieur Heine begs that your ladyship will do him the honor of mounting, and will forgive
him the five stories for the sake of the view."

Her ladyship's sadness was tinctured by a faint smile at the message, which the footman delivered
without any suspicion that the view in question meant the view of Heine himself. But then that
admirable menial had not the advantage of her comprehensive familiarity with Heine's writings.
She crossed the blank stony courtyard and curled up the curving five flights, her mind astir
with pictures and emotions.

She had scribbled on her card a reminder of her identity; but could he remember, after all
those years, and in his grievous sickness, the little girl of eleven who had sat next to him
at the Boulogne table d'hôte? And she herself could now scarcely realize at times that the
stout, good-natured, short-sighted little man with the big white brow, who had lounged with
her daily at the end of the pier, telling her stories, was the most mordant wit in Europe,
"the German Aristophanes"; and that those nursery tales, grotesquely compact of mermaids, water-sprites,
and a funny old French fiddler with a poodle that diligently took three baths a day, were the
frolicsome improvisations of perhaps the greatest lyric poet of his age. She recalled their
parting: "When you go back to England, you can tell your friends that you have seen Heinrich
Heine!"

To which the little girl: "And who is Heinrich Heine?"

A query which had set the blue-eyed little man roaring with laughter.

These things might be vivid still to her vision: they colored all she had read since from his
magic pen--the wonderful poems interpreting with equal magic the romance of strange lands and
times, or the modern soul, naked and unashamed, as if clothed in its own complexity; the humorous-tragic
questionings of the universe; the delicious travel-pictures and fantasies; the lucid criticisms
of art, and politics, and philosophy, informed with malicious wisdom, shimmering with poetry
and wit. But, as for him, doubtless she and her ingenuous interrogation had long since faded
from his tumultuous life.

The odors of the sick-room recalled her to the disagreeable present. In the sombre light she
stumbled against a screen covered with paper painted to look like lacquer-work, and, as the
slip-shod old nurse in her serre-tête motioned her forward, she had a dismal sense of a lodging-house
interior, a bourgeois barrenness enhanced by two engravings after Léopold Robert, depressingly
alien from that dainty boudoir atmosphere of the artist-life she knew.

But this sordid impression was swallowed up in the vast tragedy behind the screen. Upon a pile
of mattresses heaped on the floor lay the poet. He had raised himself a little on his pillows,
amid which showed a longish, pointed, white face with high cheek-bones, a Grecian nose, and
a large pale mouth, wasted from the sensualism she recollected in it to a strange Christ-like
beauty. The outlines of the shrivelled body beneath the sheet seemed those of a child of ten,
and the legs looked curiously twisted. One thin little hand, as of transparent wax, delicately
artistic, upheld a paralyzed eyelid, through which he peered at her.

"Lucy Liebchen!" he piped joyously. "So you have found out who Heinrich Heine is!"

He used the familiar German "du"; for him she was still his little friend. But to her the moment
was too poignant for speech. The terrible passages in the last writings of this greatest of
autobiographers, which she had hoped poetically colored, were then painfully, prosaically true.

And then she thought of that ghastly comparison of himself to the ancient German singer--the
poor clerk of the Chronicle of Limburg--whose sweet songs were sung and whistled from morning
to night all through Germany; while the Minnesinger himself, smitten with leprosy, hooded and
cloaked, and carrying the lazarus-clapper, moved through the shuddering city. God's satire
weighed heavily upon him, indeed. Silently she held out her hand, and he gave her his bloodless
fingers; she touched the strangely satin skin, and felt the fever beneath.

"It cannot be my little Lucy," he said reproachfully. "She used to kiss me. But even Lucy's
kiss cannot thrill my paralyzed lips."

She stooped and kissed his lips. His little beard felt soft and weak as the hair of a baby.

"Ah, I have made my peace with the world and with God. Now He sends me His death-angel."

She struggled with the lump in her throat. "You must be indeed a prey to illusions, if you
mistake an Englishwoman for Azrael."

"Ach, why was I so bitter against England? I was only once in England, years ago. I knew nobody,
and London seemed so full of fog and Englishmen. Now England has avenged herself beautifully.
She sends me you. Others too mount the hundred and five steps. I am an annexe to the Paris
Exhibition. Remains of Heinrich Heine. A very pilgrimage of the royal demi-monde! A Russian
princess brings the hateful odor of her pipe," he said with scornful satisfaction, "an Italian
princess babbles of her aches and pains, as if in competition with mine. But the gold medal
would fall to my nerves, I am convinced, if they were on view at the Exhibition. No, no, don't
cry; I meant you to laugh. Don't think of me as you see me now; pretend to me I am as you first
knew me. But how fine and beautiful you have grown; even to my fraction of an eye, which sees
the sunlight as through black gauze. Fancy little Lucy has a husband; a husband--and the poodle
still takes three baths a day. Are you happy, darling? are you happy?"

She nodded. It seemed a sacrilege to claim happiness.

"Das ist schön! Yes, you were always so merry. God be thanked! How refreshing to find one woman
with a heart, and that her husband's. Here the women have a metronome under their corsets,
which beats time, but not music. Himmel! What a whiff of my youth you bring me! Does the sea
still roll green at the end of Boulogue pier, and do the sea-gulls fly? while I lie here, a
Parisian Prometheus, chained to my bed-post. Ah, had I only the bliss of a rock with the sky
above me! But I must not complain; for six years before I moved here I had nothing but a ceiling
to defy. Now my balcony gives sideways on the Champs-Elysées, and sometimes I dare to lie outside
on a sofa and peer at beautiful, beautiful Paris, as she sends up her soul in sparkling fountains,
and incarnates herself in pretty women, who trip along like dance music. Look!"

To please him she went to a window and saw, upon the narrow iron-grilled balcony, a tent of
striped chintz, like the awning of a café, supported by a light iron framework. Her eyes were
blurred by unshed tears, and she divined rather than saw the far-stretching Avenue, palpitating
with the fevered life of the Great Exhibition year; the intoxicating sunlight, the horse-chestnut
trees dappling with shade the leafy footways, the white fountain-spray and flaming flower-beds
of the Rond Point, the flashing flickering stream of carriages flowing to the Bois with their
freight of beauty and wealth and insolent vice.

"The first time I looked out of that window," he said, "I seemed to myself like Dante at the
end of the Divine Comedy, when once again he beheld the stars. You cannot know what I felt
when after so many years I saw the world again for the first time, with half an eye, for ever
so little a space. I had my wife's opera-glass in my hand, and I saw with inexpressible pleasure
a young vagrant vendor of pastry offering his goods to two ladies in crinolines, with a small
dog. I closed the glass; I could see no more, for I envied the dog. The nurse carried me back
to bed and gave me morphia. That day I looked no more. For me the Divine Comedy was far from
ended. The divine humorist has even descended to a pun. Talk of Mahomet's coffin. I lie between
the two Champs-Elysées, the one where warm life palpitates, and that other, where the pale
ghosts flit."

Then it was not a momentary fantasy of the pen, but an abiding mood that had paid blasphemous
homage to the "Aristophanes of Heaven." Indeed, had it not always run through his work, this
conception of humor in the grotesqueries of history, "the dream of an intoxicated divinity"?
But his amusement thereat had been genial. "Like a mad harlequin," he had written of Byron,
the man to whom he felt himself most related, "he strikes a dagger into his own heart, to sprinkle
mockingly with the jetting black blood the ladies and gentlemen around.... My blood is not
so splenetically black; my bitterness comes only from the gall-apples of my ink." But now,
she thought, that bitter draught always at his lips had worked into his blood at last.

"Are you quite incurable?" she said gently, as she returned from the window to seat herself
at his mattress graveside.

"No, I shall die some day. Gruby says very soon. But doctors are so inconsistent. Last week,
after I had had a frightful attack of cramp in the throat and chest, 'Pouvez-vous siffler?'
he said. 'Non, pas méme une comédie de M. Scribe,' I replied. So you may see how bad I was.
Well, even that, he said, wouldn't hasten the end, and I should go on living indefinitely!
I had to caution him not to tell my wife. Poor Mathilde! I have been unconscionably long a-dying.
And now he turns round again and bids me order my coffin. But I fear, despite his latest bulletin,
I shall go on some time yet increasing my knowledge of spinal disease. I read all the books
about it, as well as experiment practically. What clinical lectures I will give in heaven,
demonstrating the ignorance of doctors!"

She was glad to note the more genial nuance of mockery. Raillery vibrated almost in the very
tones of his voice, which had become clear and penetrating under the stimulus of her presence,
but it passed away in tenderness, and the sarcastic wrinkles vanished from the corners of his
mouth as he made the pathetic jest anent his wife.

"So you read as well as write," she said.

"Oh, well, De Zichlinsky, a nice young refugee, does both for me most times. My mother, poor
old soul, wrote the other day to know why I only signed my letters, so I had to say my eyes
pained me, which was not so untrue as the rest of the letter."

"Doesn't she know?"

"Know? God bless her, of course not. Dear old lady, dreaming so happily at the Dammthor, too
old and wise to read newspapers. No, she does not know that she has a dying son, only that
she has an undying! Nicht Wahr?"

He looked at her with a shade of anxiety; that tragic anxiety of the veteran artist scenting
from afar the sneers of the new critics at his life-work, and morbidly conscious of his hosts
of enemies.

"As long as the German tongue lives."

"Dear old Germany," he said, pleased. "Yes, as I wrote to you, for you are the liebe Kleine
of the poem,

    'Nennt man die besten Namen,
    So wird auch der meine genannt.'"

She was flattered, but thought sadly of the sequel:

    "'Nennt man die schlimmsten Schmerzen,
    So wird auch der meine genannt'"

as he went on:--

"That was why, though the German censorship forbade or mutilated my every book, which was like
sticking pins into my soul, I would not become naturalized here. Paris has been my new Jerusalem,
and I crossed my Jordan at the Rhine; but as a French subject I should be like those two-headed
monstrosities they show at the fairs. Besides, I hate French poetry. What measured glitter!
Not that German poetry has ever been to me more than a divine plaything. A laurel-wreath on
my grave, place or withhold, I care not; but lay on my coffin a sword, for I was as brave a
soldier as your Canning in the Liberation War of Humanity. But my Thirty Years' War is over,
and I die 'with sword unbroken, and a broken heart.'" His head fell back in ineffable hopelessness.
"Ah," he murmured, "it was ever my prayer, 'Lord, let me grow old in body, but let my soul
stay young; let my voice quaver and falter, but never my hope.' And this is how I end."

"But your work does not end. Your fight was not vain. You are the inspirer of young Germany.
And you are praised and worshipped by all the world. Is that no pleasure?"

"No, I am not le bon Dieu!" He chuckled, his spirits revived by the blasphemous mot." Ah, what
a fate! To have the homage only of the fools, a sort of celestial Victor Cousin. One compliment
from Hegel now must be sweeter than a churchful of psalms." A fearful fit of coughing interrupted
further elaboration of the blasphemous fantasia. For five minutes it rent and shook him, the
nurse bending fruitlessly over him; but at its wildest he signed to his visitor not to go,
and when at last it lulled he went on calmly: "Donizetti ended mad in a gala dress, but I end
at least sane enough to appreciate the joke--a little long-drawn out, and not entirely original,
yet replete with ingenious irony. Little Lucy looks shocked, but I sometimes think, little
Lucy, the disrespect is with the goody-goody folks, who, while lauding their Deity's strength
and hymning His goodness, show no recognition at all of His humor. Yet I am praised as a wit
as well as a poet. If I could take up my bed and walk, I would preach a new worship--the worship
of the Arch-Humorist. I should draw up the Ritual of the Ridiculous. Three times a day, when
the muezzin called from the Bourse-top, all the faithful would laugh devoutly at the gigantic
joke of the cosmos. How sublime, the universal laugh! at sunrise, noon, and sunset; those who
did not laugh would be persecuted; they would laugh, if only on the wrong side of the mouth.
Delightful! As most people have no sense of humor, they will swallow the school catechism of
the comic as stolidly as they now swallow the spiritual. Yes, I see you will not laugh. But
why may I not endow my Deity--as everybody else does--with the quality which I possess or admire
most?"

She felt some truth in his apology. He was mocking, not God, but the magnified man of the popular
creeds; to him it was a mere intellectual counter with which his wit played, oblivious of the
sacred aura that clung round the concept for the bulk of the world. Even his famous picture
of Jehovah dying, or his suggestion that perhaps dieser Parvenu des Himmels was angry with
Israel for reminding Him of his former obscure national relations--what was it but a lively
rendering of what German savants said so unreadably about the evolution of the God-Idea? But
she felt also it would have been finer to bear unsmiling the smileless destinies; not to affront
with the tinkle of vain laughter the vast imperturbable. She answered gently, "You are talking
nonsense."

"I always talked nonsense to you, little Lucy, for

    'My heart is wise and witty
    And it bleeds within my breast.'

Will you hear its melodious drip-drip, my last poem?--My manuscript, Catherine; and then you
can go take a nap. I am sure I gave you little rest last night."

The old woman brought him some folio sheets covered with great pathetically sprawling letters,
and when she had retired, he began--

    "Wie langsam kriechet sie dahin,
    Die Zeit, die schauderhafte Schnecke...?"

His voice went on, but after the first lines the listener's brain was too troubled to attend.
It was agitated with whirling memories of those earlier outcries throbbing with the passion
of life, flaming records of the days when every instant held not an eternity of ennui, but
of sensibility. "Red life boils in my veins.... Every woman is to me the gift of a world....
I hear a thousand nightingales.... I could eat all the elephants of Hindostan and pick my teeth
with the spire of Strasburg Cathedral.... Life is the greatest of blessings, and death the
worst of evils...." But the poet was still reading--she forced herself to listen.

    "'Perhaps with ancient heathen shapes,
    Old faded gods, this brain is full;
    Who, for their most unholy rites,
    Have chosen a dead poet's skull.'"

He broke off suddenly. "No, it is too sad. A cry in the night from a man buried alive; a new
note in German poetry--was sage ich?--in the poetry of the world. No poet ever had such a lucky
chance before--voyez-vous--to survive his own death, though many a one has survived his own
immortality. Dici miser ante obitum nemo debet--call no man wretched till he's dead. 'Tis not
till the journey is over that one can see the perspective truthfully and the tombstones of
one's hopes and illusions marking the weary miles. 'Tis not till one is dead that the day of
judgment can dawn; and when one is dead one cannot see or judge at all. An exquisite irony.
Nicht Wahr? The wrecks in the Morgue, what tales they could tell! But dead men tell no tales.
While there's life there's hope; and so the worst cynicisms have never been spoken. But I--I
alone--have dodged the Fates. I am the dead-alive, the living dead. I hover over my racked
body like a ghost, and exist in an interregnum. And so I am the first mortal in a position
to demand an explanation. Don't tell me I have sinned, and am in hell. Most sins are sins of
classification by bigots and poor thinkers. Who can live without sinning, or sin without living?
All very well for Kant to say: 'Act so that your conduct may be a law for all men under similar
conditions.' But Kant overlooked that you are part of the conditions. And when you are a Heine,
you may very well concede that future Heines should act just so. It is easy enough to be virtuous
when you are a professor of pure reason, a regular, punctual mechanism, a thing for the citizens
of Königsberg to set their watches by. But if you happen to be one of those fellows to whom
all the roses nod and all the stars wink ... I am for Schelling's principle: the highest spirits
are above the law. No, no, the parson's explanation won't do. Perhaps heaven holds different
explanations, graduated to rising intellects, from parsons upwards. Moses Lump will be satisfied
with a gold chair, and the cherubim singing, 'holy! holy! holy!' in Hebrew, and ask no further
questions. Abdullah Ben Osman's mouth will be closed by the kisses of houris. Surely Christ
will not disappoint the poor old grandmother's vision of Jerusalem the Golden seen through
tear-dimmed spectacles as she pores over the family Bible. He will meet her at the gates of
death with a wonderful smile of love; and, as she walks upon the heavenly Jordan's shining
waters, hand in hand with Him, she will see her erst-wrinkled face reflected from them in angelic
beauty. Ah, but to tackle a Johann Wolfgang Goethe or a Gotthold Ephraim Lessing--what an ordeal
for the celestial Professor of Apologetics! Perhaps that's what the Gospel means--only by becoming
little children can we enter the kingdom of heaven. I told my little god-daughter yesterday
that heaven is so pure and magnificent that they eat cakes there all day--it is only what the
parson says, translated into child-language--and that the little cherubs wipe their mouths
with their white wings. 'That's very dirty,' said the child. I fear that unless I become a
child myself I shall have severer criticisms to bring against the cherubs. O God," he broke
off suddenly, letting fall the sheets of manuscript and stretching out his hands in prayer,
"make me a child again, even before I die; give me back the simple faith, the clear vision
of the child that holds its father's hand. Oh, little Lucy, it takes me like that sometimes,
and I have to cry for mercy. I dreamt I was a child the other night, and saw my dear father
again. He was putting on his wig, and I saw him as through a cloud of powder. I rushed joyfully
to embrace him; but, as I approached him, everything seemed changing in the mist. I wished
to kiss his hands, but I recoiled with mortal cold. The fingers were withered branches, my
father himself a leafless tree, which the winter had covered with hoar-frost. Ah, Lucy, Lucy,
my brain is full of madness and my heart of sorrow. Sing me the ballad of the lady who took
only one spoonful of gruel, 'with sugar and spices so rich.'"

Astonished at his memory, she repeated the song of Ladye Alice and Giles Collins, the poet
laughing immoderately till at the end,

    "The parson licked up the rest,"

in his effort to repeat the line that so tickled him, he fell into a fearful spasm, which tore
and twisted him till his child's body lay curved like a bow. Her tears fell at the sight.

"Don't pity me too much," he gasped, trying to smile with his eyes; "I bend, but I do not break."

But she, terrified, rang the bell for aid. A jovial-looking woman--tall and well-shaped--came
in, holding a shirt she was sewing. Her eyes and hair were black, and her oval face had the
rude coloring of health. She brought into the death-chamber at once a whiff of ozone, and a
suggestion of tragic incongruity. Nodding pleasantly at the visitor, she advanced quickly to
the bedside, and laid her hand upon the forehead, sweating with agony.

"Mathilde," he said, when the spasm abated, "this is little Lucy of whom I have never spoken
to you, and to whom I wrote a poem about her dark-brown eyes which you have never read."

Mathilde smiled amiably at the Roman matron.

"No, I have never read it," she said archly. "They tell me that Heine is a very clever man,
and writes very fine books; but I know nothing about it, and must content myself with trusting
to their word."

"Isn't she adorable?" cried Heine delightedly. "I have only two consolations that sit at my
bedside, my French wife and my German muse, and they are not on speaking terms. But it has
its compensations, for she is unable also to read what my enemies in Germany say about me,
and so she continues to love me."

"How can he have enemies?" said Mathilde, smoothing his hair. "He is so good to everybody.
He has only two thoughts--to hide his illness from his mother, and to earn enough for my future.
And as for having enemies in Germany, how can that be, when he is so kind to every poor German
that passes through Paris?"

It moved the hearer to tears--this wifely faith. Surely the saint that lay behind the Mephistopheles
in his face must have as real an existence, if the woman who knew him only as man, undazzled
by the glitter of his fame, unwearied by his long sickness, found him thus without flaw or stain.

"Delicious creature," said Heine fondly. "Not only thinks me good, but thinks that goodness
keeps off enemies. What ignorance of life she crams into a dozen words. As for those poor countrymen
of mine, they are just the people that carry back to Germany all the awful tales of my goings-on.
Do you know, there was once a poor devil of a musician who had set my Zwei Grenadiere, and
to whom I gave no end of help and advice, when he wanted to make an opera on the legend of
the Flying Dutchman, which I had treated in one of my books. Now he curses me and all the Jews
together, and his name is Richard Wagner."

Mathilde smiled on vaguely. "You would eat those cutlets," she said reprovingly.

"Well, I was weary of the chopped grass cook calls spinach. I don't want seven years of Nebuchadnezzardom."

"Cook is angry when you don't eat her things, chéri. I find it difficult to get on with her,
since you praised her dainty style. One would think she was the mistress and I the servant."

"Ah, Nonotte, you don't understand the artistic temperament." Then a twitch passed over his
face. "You must give me a double dose of morphia to-night, darling."

"No, no; the doctor forbids."

"One would think he were the employer and I the employee," he grumbled smilingly. "But I daresay
he is right. Already I spend 500 francs a year on morphia, I must really retrench. So run away,
dearest, I have a good friend here to cheer me up."

She stooped down and kissed him.

"Ah, madame," she said, "it is very good of you to come and cheer him up. It is as good as
a new dress to me, to see a new face coming in, for the old ones begin to drop off. Not the
dresses, the friends," she added gaily, as she disappeared.

"Isn't she divine?" cried Heine enthusiastically.

"I am glad you love her," his visitor replied simply.

"You mean you are astonished. Love? What is love? I have never loved."

"You!" And all those stories those countrymen of his had spread abroad, all his own love-poems
were in that exclamation.

"No--never mortal woman. Only statues and the beautiful dead dream-women, vanished with the
neiges d'antan. What did it matter whom I married? Perhaps you would have had me aspire higher
than a grisette? To a tradesman's daughter? Or a demoiselle in society? 'Explain my position?'--a
poor exile's position--to some double-chinned bourgeois papa who can only see that my immortal
books are worth exactly two thousand marks banco; yes, that's the most I can wring out of those
scoundrels in wicked Hamburg. And to think that if I had only done my writing in ledgers, the
'prentice millionaire might have become the master millionaire, ungalled by avuncular advice
and chary cheques. Ah, dearest Lucy, you can never understand what we others suffer--you into
whose mouths the larks drop roasted. Should I marry fashion and be stifled? Or money and be
patronized? And lose the exquisite pleasure of toiling to buy my wife new dresses and knick-knacks?
Après tout, Mathilde is quite as intelligent as any other daughter of Eve, whose first thought
when she came to reflective consciousness was a new dress. All great men are mateless, 'tis
only their own ribs they fall in love with. A more cultured woman would only have misunderstood
me more pretentiously. Not that I didn't, in a weak moment, try to give her a little polish.
I sent her to a boarding-school to learn to read and write; my child of nature among all the
little school-girls--ha! ha! ha!--and I only visited her on Sundays, and she could rattle off
the Egyptian Kings better than I, and once she told me with great excitement the story of Lucretia,
which she had heard for the first time. Dear Nonotte! You should have seen her dancing at the
school ball, as graceful and maidenly as the smallest shrimp of them all. What gaieté de cœur!
What good humor! What mother-wit! And such a faithful chum. Ah, the French women are wonderful.
We have been married fifteen years, and still, when I hear her laugh come through that door,
my soul turns from the gates of death and remembers the sun. Oh, how I love to see her go off
to Mass every morning with her toilette nicely adjusted and her dainty prayer-book in her neatly
gloved hand, for she's adorably religious, is my little Nonotte. You look surprised; did you
then think religious people shock me!"

She smiled a little. "But don't you shock her?"

"I wouldn't for worlds utter a blasphemy she could understand. Do you think Shakespeare explained
himself to Ann Hathaway? But she doubtless served well enough as artist's model; raw material
to be worked up into Imogens and Rosalinds. Enchanting creatures! How you foggy islanders could
have begotten Shakespeare! The miracle of miracles. And Sterne! Mais non, an Irishman like
Swift, Ça s'explique. Is Sterne read?"

"No; he is only a classic."

"Barbarians! Have you read my book on Shakespeare's heroines? It is good; nicht wahr?"

"Admirable."

"Then, why shouldn't you translate it into English?"

"It is an idea."

"It is an inspiration. Nay, why shouldn't you translate all my books? You shall; you must.
You know how the French edition fait fureur. French, that is the European hall-mark, for Paris
is Athens. But English will mean fame in ultima Thule; the isles of the sea, as the Bible says.
It isn't for the gold pieces, though, God knows, Mathilde needs more friends, as we call them--perhaps
because they leave us so soon. I fear she doesn't treat them too considerately, the poor little
featherhead. Heaven preserve you from the irony of having to earn your living on your death-bed!
Ach, my publisher, Campe, has built himself a new establishment; what a monument to me! Why
should not some English publisher build me a monument in London? The Jew's books, like the
Jew, should be spread abroad, so that in them all the nations of the earth shall be blessed.
For the Jew peddles, not only old clo', but new ideas. I began life--tell it not in Gath--as
a commission agent for English goods; and I end it as an intermediary between France and Germany,
trying to make two great nations understand each other. To that not unworthy aim has all my
later work been devoted."

"So you really consider yourself a Jew still?"

"Mein Gott! have I ever been anything else but an enemy of the Philistines?"

She smiled: "Yes; but religiously?"

"Religiously! What was my whole fight to rouse Hodge out of his thousand years' sleep in his
hole? Why did I edit a newspaper, and plague myself with our time and its interests? Goethe
has created glorious Greek statues, but statues cannot have children. My words should find
issue in deeds. Put me rather with poor Lessing. I am no true Hellenist. I may have snatched
at pleasure, but self-sacrifice has always called to the depths of me. Like my ancestor, David,
I have been not only a singer, I have slung my smooth little pebbles at the forehead of Goliath."

"Yes; but haven't you turned Catholic?"

"Catholic!" he roared like a roused lion, "they say that again! Has the myth of death-bed conversion
already arisen about me? How they jump, the fools, at the idea of a man's coming round to their
views when his brain grows weak!"

"No, not death-bed conversion. Quite an old history. I was assured you had married in a Catholic
Church."

"To please Mathilde. Without that the poor creature wouldn't have thought herself married in
a manner sufficiently pleasing to God. It is true we had been living together without any Church
blessing at all, but que voulez-vous? Women are like that. But for a duel I had to fight, I
should have been satisfied to go on as we were. I understand by a wife something nobler than
a married woman chained to me by money-brokers and parsons, and I deemed my faux ménage far
firmer than many a "true" one. But since I was to be married, I could not leave my beloved
Nonotte a dubious widowhood. We even invited a number of Bohemian couples to the wedding-feast,
and bade them follow our example in daring the last step of all. Ha! ha! there is nothing like
a convert's zeal, you see. But convert to Catholicism, that's another pair of sleeves. If your
right eye offends you, pluck it out; if your right arm offends you, cut it off. And if your
reason offends you, become a Catholic. No, no, Lucy, I may have worshipped the Madonna in song,
for how can a poet be insensible to the beauty of Catholic symbol and ritual? But a Jew I have
always been."

"Despite your baptism?"

The sufferer groaned, but not from physical pain.

"Ah, cruel little Lucy, don't remind me of my youthful folly. Thank your stars you were born
an Englishwoman. I was born under the fearful conjunction of Christian bigotry and Jewish,
in the Judenstrasse. In my cradle lay my line of life marked out from beginning to end. My
God, what a life! You know how Germany treated her Jews--like pariahs and wild beasts. At Frankfort
for centuries the most venerable Rabbi had to take off his hat if the smallest gamin cried:
'Jud', mach mores!' I have myself been shut up in that Ghetto, I have witnessed a Jew-riot
more than once in Hamburg. Ah, Judaism is not a religion, but a misfortune. And to be born
a Jew and a genius! What a double curse! Believe me, Lucy, a certificate of baptism was a necessary
card of admission to European culture. Neither my mother nor my money-bag of an uncle sympathized
with my shuddering reluctance to wade through holy water to my doctor's degree. And yet no
sooner had I taken the dip than a great horror came over me. Many a time I got up at night
and looked in the glass, and cursed myself for my want of backbone! Alas! my curses were more
potent than those of the Rabbis against Spinoza, and this disease was sent me to destroy such
backbone as I had. No wonder the doctors do not understand it. I learnt in the Ghetto that
if I didn't twine the holy phylacteries round my arm, serpents would be found coiled round
the arm of my corpse. Alas! serpents have never failed to coil themselves round my sins. The
Inquisition could not have tortured me more, had I been a Jew of Spain. If I had known how
much easier moral pain was to bear than physical, I would have saved my curses for my enemies,
and put up with my conscience--twinges. Ah, truly said your divine Shakespeare that the wisest
philosopher is not proof against a toothache. When was any spasm of pleasure so sustained as
pain? Certain of our bones, I learn from my anatomy books, only manifest their existence when
they are injured. Happy are the bones that have no history. Ugh! how mine are coming through
the skin, like ugly truth through fair romance. I shall have to apologize to the worms for
offering them nothing but bones. Alas, how ugly bitter it is to die; how sweet and snugly we
can live in this snug, sweet nest of earth. What nice words; I must start a poem with them.
Yes, sooner than die I would live over again my miserable boyhood in my uncle Salomon's office,
miscalculating in his ledgers like a Trinitarian, while I scribbled poems for the Hamburg Wächter.
Yes, I would even rather learn Latin again at the Franciscan cloister, and grind law at Göttingen.
For, after all, I shouldn't have to work very hard; a pretty girl passes, and to the deuce
with the Pandects! Ah, those wild University days, when we used to go and sup at the 'Landwehr,'
and the rosy young Kellnerin, who brought us our duck mit Apfelkompot, kissed me alone of all
the Herren Studenten, because I was a poet, and already as famous as the professors. And then,
after I should be re-rusticated from Göttingen, there would be Berlin over again, and dear
Rahel Levin and her salon, and the Tuesdays at Elise von Hohenhausen's (at which I would read
my Lyrical Intermezzo), and the mad literary nights with the poets in the Behrenstrasse. And
balls, theatres, operas, masquerades--shall I ever forget the ball when Sir Walter Scott's
son appeared as a Scotch Highlander, just when all Berlin was mad about the Waverley Novels!
I, too, should read them over again for the first time, those wonderful romances; yes, and
I should write my own early books over again--oh, the divine joy of early creation!--and I
should set out again with bounding pulses on my Harzreise: and the first night of Freischütz
would come once more, and I should be whistling the Jungfern and sipping punch in the Casino,
with Lottchen filling up my glass." His eyes oozed tears, and suddenly he stretched out his
arms and seized her hand and pressed it frantically, his face and body convulsed, his paralyzed
eyelids dropping. "No, no!" he pleaded, in a hoarse, hollow voice, as she strove to withdraw
it, "I hear the footsteps of death, I must cling on to life; I must, I must. O the warmth and
the scent of it!"

She shuddered. For an instant he seemed a vampire with shut eyes sucking at her life-blood
to sustain his; and when that horrible fantasy passed, there remained the overwhelming tragedy
of a dead man lusting for life. Not this the ghost, who, as Berlioz put it, stood at the window
of his grave, regarding and mocking the world in which he had no further part. But his fury
waned, he fell back as in a stupor, and lay silent, little twitches passing over his sightless
face.

She bent over him, terribly distressed. Should she go? Should she ring again? Presently words
came from his lips at intervals, abrupt, disconnected, and now a ribald laugh, and now a tearful
sigh. And then he was a student humming:

    "Gaudeamus igitur, juvenes dum sumus,"

and his death-mask lit up with the wild joys of living. And then earlier memories still--of
his childhood in Düsseldorf--seemed to flow through his comatose brain; his mother and brothers
and sisters; the dancing-master he threw out of the window; the emancipation of the Jewry by
the French conquerors; the joyous drummer who taught him French; the passing of Napoleon on
his white horse; the atheist school-boy friend with whom he studied Spinoza on the sly, and
the country louts from whom he bought birds merely to set them free, and the blood-red hair
of the hangman's niece who sang him folk-songs. And suddenly he came to himself, raised his
eyelid with his forefinger and looked at her.

"Catholic!" he cried angrily. "I never returned to Judaism, because I never left it. My baptism
was a mere wetting. I have never put Heinrich--only H--on my books, and never have I ceased
to write 'Harry' to my mother. Though the Jews hate me even more than the Christians, yet I
was always on the side of my brethren."

"I know, I know," she said soothingly. "I am sorry I hurt you. I remember well the passage
in which you say that your becoming a Christian was the fault of the Saxons who changed sides
suddenly at Leipzig; or else of Napoleon who had no need to go to Russia; or else of his school-master
who gave him instruction at Brienne in geography, and did not tell him that it was very cold
at Moscow in winter."

"Very well, then," he said, pacified. "Let them not say either that I have been converted to
Judaism on my death-bed. Was not my first poem based on one in the Passover night Hagadah?
Was not my first tragedy, Almansor, really the tragedy of down-trodden Israel, that great race
which from the ruins of its second Temple knew to save, not the gold and the precious stones,
but its real treasure, the Bible--a gift to the world that would make the tourist traverse
oceans to see a Jew, if there were only one left alive. The only people that preserved freedom
of thought through the middle ages, they have now to preserve God against the free-thought
of the modern world. We are the Swiss guards of Deism. God was always the beginning and end
of my thought. When I hear His existence questioned, I feel as I felt once in your Bedlam when
I lost my guide, a ghastly forlornness in a mad world. Is not my best work, The Rabbi of Bacharach,
devoted to expressing the 'vast Jewish sorrow,' as Börne calls it?"

"But you never finished it?"

"I was a fool to be persuaded by Moser. Or was it Gans? Ah, will not Jehovah count it to me
for righteousness, that New Jerusalem Brotherhood with them in the days when I dreamt of reconciling
Jew and Greek--the goodness of beauty with the beauty of goodness! Oh, those days of youthful
dreams, whose winters are warmer than the summers of the after years. How they tried to crush
us, the Rabbis and the State alike! O the brave Moser, the lofty-souled, the pure-hearted,
who passed from counting-house to laboratory, and studied Sanscrit for recreation, moriturus
te saluto. And thou, too, Markus, with thy boy's body, and thy old man's look, and thy encyclopædic,
inorganic mind; and thou, O Gans, with thy too organic Hegelian hocus-pocus. Yes, the Rabbis
were right, and the baptismal font had us at last; but surely God counts the will to do, and
is more pleased with great-hearted dreams than with the deeds of the white-hearted burghers
of virtue, whose goodness is essence of gendarmerie. And where, indeed--if not in Judaism,
broadened by Hellenism--shall one find the religion of the future? Be sure of this, anyhow,
that only a Jew will find it. We have the gift of religion, the wisdom of the ages. You others--young
races fresh from staining your bodies with woad--have never yet got as far as Moses. Moses--that
giant figure--who dwarfs Sinai when he stands upon it, the great artist in life, who, as I
point out in my Confessions built human pyramids; who created Israel; who took a poor shepherd
family, and created a nation from it--a great, eternal, holy people, a people of God, destined
to outlive the centuries, and to serve as a pattern to all other nations--a statesman, not
a dreamer, who did not deny the world and the flesh, but sanctified it. Happiness, is it not
implied in the very aspiration of the Christian for postmundane bliss? And yet, 'the man Moses
was very meek'; the most humble and lovable of men. He too--though it is always ignored--was
ready to die for the sins of others, praying, when his people had sinned, that his name might
be blotted out instead; and though God offered to make of him a great nation, yet did he prefer
the greatness of his people. He led them to Palestine, but his own foot never touched the promised
land. What a glorious, Godlike figure, and yet so prone to wrath and error, so lovably human.
How he is modelled all round like a Rembrandt--while your starveling monks have made of your
Christ a mere decorative figure with a gold halo. O Moshé Rabbenu, Moses our teacher indeed!
No, Christ was not the first nor the last of our race to wear a crown of thorns. What was Spinoza
but Christ in the key of meditation?"

"Wherever a great soul speaks out his thoughts, there is Golgotha," quoted the listener.

"Ah, you know every word I have written," he said, childishly pleased. "Decidedly, you must
translate me. You shall be my apostle to the heathen. You are good apostles, you English. You
turned Jews under Cromwell, and now your missionaries are planting our Palestinian doctrines
in the South Seas, or amid the josses and pagodas of the East, and your young men are colonizing
unknown continents on the basis of the Decalogue of Moses. You are founding a world-wide Palestine.
The law goes forth from Zion, but by way of Liverpool and Southampton. Perhaps you are indeed
the lost Ten Tribes."

"Then you would make me a Jew, too," she laughed.

"Jew or Greek, there are only two religious possibilities--fetish-dances and spinning dervishes
don't count--the Renaissance meant the revival of these two influences, and since the sixteenth
century they have both been increasing steadily. Luther was a child of the Old Testament. Since
the Exodus, Freedom has always spoken with a Hebrew accent. Christianity is Judaism run divinely
mad, a religion without a drainage system, a beautiful dream dissevered from life, soul cut
adrift from body, and sent floating through the empyrean, when it can only at best be a captive
balloon. At the same time, don't take your idea of Judaism from the Jews. It is only an apostolic
succession of great souls that understands anything in this world. The Jewish mission will
never be over till the Christians are converted to the religion of Christ. Lassalle is a better
pupil of the Master than the priests who denounce socialism. You have met Lassalle! No? You
shall meet him here one day. A marvel. Me plus Will. He knows everything, feels everything,
yet is a sledge-hammer to act. He may yet be the Messiah of the nineteenth century. Ah! when
every man is a Spinoza, and does good for the love of good, when the world is ruled by justice
and brotherhood, reason and humor, then the Jews may shut up shop, for it will be the Holy
Sabbath. Did you mark, Lucy, I said, reason and humor? Nothing will survive in the long run
but what satisfies the sense of logic, and the sense of humor. Logic and laughter--the two
trumps of doom! Put not your trust in princes--the really great of the earth are always simple.
Pomp and ceremonial, popes and kings, are toys for children. Christ rode on an ass, now the
ass rides on Christ."

"And how long do you give your trumps to sound before your Millennium dawns?" said "little
Lucy," feeling strangely old and cynical beside this incorrigible idealist.

"Alas, perhaps I am only another dreamer of the Ghetto, perhaps I have fought in vain. A Jewish
woman once came weeping to her Rabbi with her son, and complained that the boy, instead of
going respectably into business like his sires, had developed religion, and insisted on training
for a Rabbi. Would not the Rabbi dissuade him? 'But,' said the Rabbi, chagrined, 'why are you
so distressed about it? Am I not a Rabbi?' 'Yes,' replied the woman, 'but this little fool
takes it seriously,' Ach, every now and again arises a dreamer who takes the world's lip-faith
seriously, and the world tramples on another fool. Perhaps there is no resurrection for humanity.
If so, if there's no world's Saviour coming by the railway, let us keep the figure of that
sublime Dreamer whose blood is balsam to the poor and the suffering."

Marvelling at the mental lucidity, the spiritual loftiness of his changed mood, his visitor
wished to take leave of him with this image in her memory; but just then a half-paralyzed Jewish
graybeard made his appearance, and Heine's instant dismissal of him on her account made it
difficult not to linger a little longer.

"My chef de police!" he said, smiling. "He lives on me and I live on his reports of the great
world. He tells me what my enemies are up to. But I have them in there," and he pointed to
an ebony box on a chest of drawers, and asked her to hand it to him.

"Pardon me before I forget," he said; and, seizing a pencil like a dagger, he made a sprawling
note, laughing venomously. "I have them here!" he repeated, "they will try to stop the publication
of my Memoirs, but I will outwit them yet. I hold them! Dead or alive, they shall not escape
me. Woe to him who shall read these lines, if he has dared attack me. Heine does not die like
the first comer. The tiger's claws will survive the tiger. When I die, it will be for them
the Day of Judgment."

It was a reminder of the long fighting life of the freelance, of all the stories she had heard
of his sordid quarrels, of his blackmailing his relatives, and besting his uncle. She asked
herself his own question, "Is genius, like the pearl in the oyster, only a splendid disease?"

Aloud she said, "I hope you are done with Börne!"

"Börne?" he said, softening. "Ach, what have I against Börne? Two baptized German Jews exiled
in Paris should forgive each other in death. My book was misunderstood. I wish to heaven I
hadn't written it. I always admired Börne, even if I could not keep up the ardor of my St.
Simonian days when my spiritual Egeria was Rahel von Varnhagen. I had three beautiful days
with him in Frankfort when he was full of Jewish wit, and hadn't yet shrunk to a mere politician.
He was a brave soldier of humanity, but he had no sense of art, and I could not stand the dirty
mob around him with its atmosphere of filthy German tobacco and vulgar tirades against tyrants.
The last time I saw him he was almost deaf, and worn to a skeleton by consumption. He dwelt
in a vast, bright silk dressing-gown, and said that if an Emperor shook his hand he would cut
it off. I said if a workman shook mine I should wash it. And so we parted, and he fell to denouncing
me as a traitor and a persifleur, who would preach monarchy or republicanism, according to
which sounded better in the sentence. Poor Lob Baruch! Perhaps he was wiser than I in his idea
that his brother Jews should sink themselves in the nations. He was born, by the way, in the
very year of old Mendelssohn's death. What an irony! But I am sorry for those insinuations
against Mme. Strauss. I have withdrawn them from the new edition, although, as you perhaps
know, I had already satisfied her husband's sense of justice by allowing him to shoot at me,
whilst I fired in the air. What can I more?"

"I am glad you have withdrawn them," she said, moved.

"Yes; I have no Napoleonic grip, you see. A morsel of conventional conscience clings to me."

"Therefore I could never understand your worship of Napoleon."

"There speaks the Englishwoman. You Pharisees--forgive me--do not understand great men, you
and your Wellington! Napoleon was not of the wood of which kings are made, but of the marble
of the gods. Let me tell you the "code Napoleon" carried light not only into the Ghettos, but
into many another noisome spider-clot of feudalism. The world wants earthquakes and thunderstorms,
or it grows corrupt and stagnant. This Paris needs a scourge of God, and the moment France
gives Germany a pretext, there will be sackcloth and ashes, or prophecy has died out of Israel."

"Qui vivra verra," ran heedlessly off her tongue. Then, blushing painfully, she said quickly,
"But how do you worship Napoleon and Moses in the same breath?"

"Ah, my dear Lucy, if your soul was like an Aladdin's palace with a thousand windows opening
on the human spectacle! Self-contradiction the fools call it, if you will not shut your eyes
to half the show. I love the people, yet I hate their stupidity and mistrust their leaders.
I hate the aristocrats, yet I love the lilies that toil not, neither do they spin, and sometimes
bring their perfume and their white robes into a sick man's chamber. Who would harden with
work the white fingers of Corysande, or sacrifice one rustle of Lalage's silken skirts? Let
the poor starve; I'll have no potatoes on Parnassus. My socialism is not barracks and brown
bread, but purple robes, music, and comedies.

"Yes, I was born for Paradox. A German Parisian, a Jewish German, a hated political exile who
yearns for dear homely old Germany, a sceptical sufferer with a Christian patience, a romantic
poet expressing in classic form the modern spirit, a Jew and poor--think you I do not see myself
as lucidly as I see the world? 'My mind to me a kingdom is' sang your old poet. Mine is a republic,
and all moods are free, equal and fraternal, as befits a child of light. Or if there is a despot,
'tis the king's jester, who laughs at the king as well as all his subjects. But am I not nearer
Truth for not being caged in a creed or a clan? Who dares to think Truth frozen--on this phantasmagorical
planet, that whirls in beginningless time through endless space! Let us trust, for the honor
of God, that the contradictory creeds for which men have died are all true. Perhaps humor--your
right Hegelian touchstone to which everything yields up its latent negation, passing on to
its own contradiction--gives truer lights and shades than your pedantic Philistinism. Is Truth
really in the cold white light, or in the shimmering interplay of the rainbow tints that fuse
in it? Bah! Your Philistine critic will sum me up after I am dead in a phrase; or he will take
my character to pieces and show how they contradict each other, and adjudge me, like a schoolmaster,
so many good marks for this quality, and so many bad marks for that. Biographers will weigh
me grocerwise, as Kant weighed the Deity. Ugh! You can only be judged by your peers or by your
superiors, by the minds that circumscribe yours, not by those that are smaller than yours.
I tell you that when they have written three tons about me, they shall as little understand
me as the Cosmos I reflect. Does the pine contradict the rose or the lotusland the iceberg?
I am Spain, I am Persia, I am the North Sea, I am the beautiful gods of old Greece, I am Brahma
brooding over the sun-lands, I am Egypt, I am the Sphinx. But oh, dear Lucy, the tragedy of
the modern, all-mirroring consciousness that dares to look on God face to face, not content,
with Moses, to see the back parts; nor, with the Israelites, to gaze on Moses. Ach, why was
I not made four-square like Moses Mendelssohn, or sublimely one-sided like Savonarola; I, too,
could have died to save humanity, if I did not at the same time suspect humanity was not worth
saving. To be Don Quixote and Sancho Panza in one, what a tragedy! No, your limited intellects
are happier: those that see life in some one noble way, and in unity find strength. I should
have loved to be a Milton--like one of your English cathedrals, austere, breathing sacred memories,
resonant with the roll of a great organ, with painted windows, on which the shadows of the
green boughs outside wave and flicker, and just hint of Nature. Or one of your aristocrats
with a stately home in the country, and dogs and horses, and a beautiful wife. In short, I
should like to be your husband. Or, failing that, my own wife, a simple, loving creature, whose
idea of culture is cabbages. Ach, why was my soul wider than the Ghetto I was born in? why
did I not mate with my kind?" He broke into a fit of coughing, and "little Lucy" thought suddenly
of the story that all his life-sadness and song-sadness was due to his rejection by some Jewish
girl in his own family circle.

"I tire you," she said. "Do not talk to me. I will sit here a little longer."

"Nay, I have tired you. But I could not but tell you my thoughts; for you are at once a child
who loves and a woman who understands me. And to be understood is rarer than to be loved. My
very parents never understood me. Nay, were they my parents--the mild man of business, the
clever, clear-headed, romance-disdaining Dutchwoman, God bless her? No, my father was Germany,
my mother was the Ghetto. The brooding spirit of Israel breathes through me that engendered
the tender humor of her sages, the celestial fantasies of her saints. Perhaps I should have
been happier had I married the first black-eyed Jewess whose father would put up with a penniless
poet. I might have kept a kitchen with double crockery and munched Passover cakes at Easter.
Every Friday night I should have come home from the labors of the week and found the table-cloth
shining like my wife's face, and the Sabbath candles burning, and the Angels of Peace sitting
hidden beneath their great invisible wings, and my wife, piously conscious of having thrown
the dough on the fire, would have kissed me tenderly, and I should have recited in an ancient
melody: 'A virtuous woman, who can find her? Her price is far above rubies.' There would have
been little children with great candid eyes, on whose innocent heads I should have laid my
hands in blessing, praying that God might make them like Ephraim and Manasseh, Rachel and Leah--persons
of dubious exemplariness--and we should have sat down and eaten Schalet, which is the divinest
dish in the world, pending the Leviathan that awaits the blessed at Messiah's table. And, instead
of singing of cocottes and mermaids, I should have sung, like Jehuda Halévi, of my Herzensdame,
Jerusalem. Perhaps--who knows?--my Hebrew verses would have been incorporated in the festival
liturgy, and pious old men would have snuffled them helter-skelter through their noses. The
letters of my name would have run acrosticwise down the verses, and the last verse would have
inspired the cantor to jubilant roulades or tremolo wails while the choir boomed in 'Pom';
and perhaps many a Jewish banker, to whom my present poems make so little appeal, would have
wept and beat his breast and taken snuff to the words of them. And I should have been buried
honorably in the 'House of Life,' and my son would have said Kaddish. Ah me, it is, after all,
so much better to be stupid and walk in the old laid-out, well-trimmed paths, than to wander
after the desires of your own heart and your own eyes over the blue hills. True, there are
glorious vistas to explore, and streams of living silver to bathe in, and wild horses to catch
by the mane, but you are in a chartless land without stars and compass. One false step and
you are over a precipice, or up to your neck in a slough. Ah, it is perilous to throw over
the old surveyors. I see Moses ben Amram, with his measuring-chain and his graving-tools, marking
on those stone tables of his the deepest abysses and the muddiest morasses. When I kept swine
with the Hegelians, I used to say, or rather, I still say, for, alas! I cannot suppress what
I have published: 'teach man he's divine; the knowledge of his divinity will inspire him to
manifest it.' Ah me, I see now that our divinity is like old Jupiter's, who made a beast of
himself as soon as he saw pretty Europa. Would to God I could blot out all my book on German
Philosophy! No, no, humanity is too weak and too miserable. We must have faith, we cannot live
without faith, in the old simple things, the personal God, the dear old Bible, a life beyond
the grave."

Fascinated by his talk, which seemed to play like lightning round a cliff at midnight, revealing
not only measureless heights and soundless depths, but the greasy wrappings and refuse bottles
of a picnic, the listener had an intuition that Heine's mind did indeed, as he claimed, reflect
or rather refract the All. Only not sublimely blurred as in Spinoza's, but specifically colored
and infinitely interrelated, so that he might pass from the sublime to the ridiculous with
an equal sense of its value in the cosmic scheme. It was the Jewish artist's proclamation of
the Unity, the humorist's "Hear, O Israel."

"Will it never end, this battle of Jew and Greek?" he said, half to himself, so that she did
not know whether he meant it personally or generally. Then, as she tore herself away, "I fear
I have shocked you," he said tenderly. "But one thing I have never blasphemed--Life. Is not
enjoyment an implicit prayer, a latent grace? After all, God is our Father, not our drill-master.
He is not so dull and solemn as the parsons make out. He made the kitten to chase its tail
and my Nonotte to laugh and dance. Come again, dear child, for my friends have grown used to
my dying, and expect me to die for ever--an inverted immortality. But one day they will find
the puppet-show shut up and the jester packed in his box. Good-bye. God bless you, little Lucy,
God bless you."

The puppet-show was shut up sooner than he expected; but the jester had kept his most wonderful
mot for the last.

"Dieu me pardonnera," he said. "C'est son métier."

THE PEOPLE'S SAVIOUR

I

    "Der Bahn, der kühnen, folgen wir,
    Die uns geführt Lassalle."

Such is the Marseillaise the Social Democrats of Germany sing, as they troop out when the police
break up their meetings.

This Lassalle, whose bold lead they profess to follow, lies at rest in the Jewish cemetery
of his native Breslau under the simple epitaph "Thinker and Fighter," and at his death the
extraordinary popular manifestations seemed to inaugurate the cult of a modern Messiah--the
Saviour of the People.

II

But no man is a hero to his valet or his relatives, and on the spring morning when Lassalle
stood at the parting of the ways--where the Thinker's path debouched on the Fighter's--his
brother-in-law from Prague, being in Berlin on business, took the opportunity of remonstrating.

"I can't understand what you mean by such productions," he cried, excitedly waving a couple
of pamphlets.

"That is not my fault, my dear Friedland," said Lassalle suavely. "It takes some brain to follow
even what I have put so clearly. What have you there?"

"The lecture to the artisans, for which you have to go to gaol for four months," said the outraged
ornament of Prague society, which he illumined as well as adorned, having, in fact, the town's
gas-contract.

"Not so fast. There is my appeal yet before the Kammergericht. And take care that you are not
in gaol first; that pamphlet is either one of the suppressed editions, or has been smuggled
in from Zürich, a proof in itself of that negative concept of the State which the pamphlet
aims at destroying. Your State is a mere night-watchman--it protects the citizen but it does
nothing to form him. It keeps off ideas, but it has none of its own. But the State, as friend
Bœckh puts it, should be the institution in which the whole virtue of mankind realizes itself.
It should sum up human experience and wisdom, and fashion its members in accordance therewith.
What is history but the story of man's struggle with nature? And what is a State but the socialization
of this struggle, the stronger helping the weaker?"

"Nonsense! Why should we help the lower classes?"

"Pardon me," said Lassalle, "it is they who help us. We are the weaker, they are the stronger.
That is the point of the other pamphlet you have there, explaining what is a Constitution."

"Don't try your legal quibbles on me."

"Legal quibbles! Why the very point of my pamphlet is to ignore verbal definitions. A Constitution
is what constitutes it, and the working-class being nine-tenths of the population must be nine-tenths
of the German Constitution."

"Then it's true what they say, that you wish to lead a Revolution!" exclaimed Friedland, raising
his coarse glittering hands in horror.

"Follow a Revolution, you mean," said Lassalle. "Here again I do away with mere words. Real
Revolutions make themselves, and we only become conscious of them. The introduction of machinery
was a greater Revolution than the French, which, since it did not express ideals that were
really present among the masses, was bound to be followed by the old thing over again. Indeed,
sometimes, as I showed in Franz von Sickingen (my drama of the sixteenth-century war of the
Peasants), a Revolution may even be reactionary, an attempt to re-establish an order of things
that has hopelessly passed away. Hence it is your sentiments that are revolutionary."

Friedland's face had the angry helplessness of a witness in the hands of a clever lawyer. "A
pretty socialist you are!" he broke out, as his arm swept with an auctioneer's gesture over
the luxurious villa in the Bellevuestrasse. "Why don't you call in the first sweep from the
street and pour him out your champagne?"

"My dear Friedland! Delighted. Help yourself," said Lassalle imperturbably.

The Prague dignitary purpled.

"You call your sister's husband a sweep!"

"Forgive me. I should have said 'gas-fitter.'"

"And who are you?" shrieked Friedland; "you gaol-bird!"

"The honor of going to gaol for truth and justice will never be yours, my dear brother-in-law."

Although he was scarcely taller than the gross-paunched parvenu who had married his only sister,
his slim form seemed to tower over him in easy elegance. An aristocratic insolence and intelligence
radiated from the handsome face that so many women had found irresistible, uniting, as it did,
three universal types of beauty--the Jewish, the ancient Greek, and the Germanic. The Orient
gave complexion and fire, the nose was Greek, the shape of the head not unlike Goethe's. The
spirit of the fighter who knows not fear flashed from his sombre blue eyes. The room itself--Lassalle's
cabinet--seemed in its simple luxuriousness to give point at once to the difference between
the two men and to the parvenu's taunt. It was of moderate size, with a large work-table thickly
littered with papers, and a comfortable writing-chair, on the back of which Lassalle's white
nervous hand rested carelessly. The walls were a mass of book-cases, gleaming with calf and
morocco, and crammed with the literature of many ages and races. Precious folios denoted the
book-lover, ancient papyri the antiquarian. It was the library of a seeker after the encyclopædic
culture of the Germany of his day. The one lighter touch in the room was a small portrait of
a young woman of rare beauty and nobility. But this sober cabinet gave on a Turkish room--a
divan covered with rich Oriental satins, inlaid whatnots, stools, dainty tables, all laden
with costly narghiles, chibouques, and opium-pipes with enormous amber tips, Damascus daggers,
tiles, and other curios brought back by him from the East--and behind this room one caught
sight of a little winter-garden full of beautiful plants.

"Truth and justice!" repeated Friedland angrily. "Fiddlesticks! A crazy desire for notoriety.
That's the truth. And as for justice--well, that was what was meted out to you."

"Prussian justice!" Lassalle's hand rose dramatically heavenwards. His brow grew black and
his voice had the vibration of the great orator or the great actor. "When I think of this daily
judicial murder of ten long years that I passed through, then waves of blood seem to tremble
before my eyes, and it seems as if a sea of blood would choke me. Galley-slaves appear to me
very honorable persons compared with our judges. As for our so-called Liberal press, it is
a harlot masquerading as the goddess of liberty."

"And what are you masquerading as?" retorted Friedland. "If you were really in earnest, you
would share all your fine things with dirty working-men, and become one of them, instead of
going down to their meetings in patent-leather boots."

"No, my dear man, it is precisely to show the dirty working-man what he has missed that I exhibit
to him my patent-leather boots. Humility, contentment, may be a Christian virtue, but in economics
'tis a deadly sin. What is the greatest misfortune for a people? To have no wants, to be lazzaroni
sprawling in the sun. But to have the greatest number of needs, and to satisfy them honestly,
is the virtue of to-day, of the era of political economy. I have always been careful about
my clothes, because it is our duty to give pleasure to other people. If I went down to my working-men
in a dirty shirt, they would be the first to cry out against my contempt for them. And as for
becoming a working-man, I choose to be a working-man in that sphere in which I can do most
good, and I keep my income in order to do it. At least it was honorably earned."

"Honorably earned!" sneered Friedland. "That is the first time I have heard it described thus."
And he looked meaningly at the beautiful portrait.

"I am quite aware you have not the privilege of conversing with my friends," retorted Lassalle,
losing his temper for the first time. "I know I am kept by my mistress, the Countess Hatzfeldt;
that all the long years, all the best years of my life, I chivalrously devoted to championing
an oppressed woman count for nothing, and that it is dishonorable for me to accept a small
commission on the enormous estates I won back for her from her brutal husband! Why, my mere
fees as lawyer would have come to double. But pah! why do I talk with you?" He began to pace
the room. "The fact that I have such a delightful home to exchange for gaol is just the thing
that should make you believe in my sincerity. No, my respected brother-in-law"--and he made
a sudden theatrical gesture, and his voice leapt to a roar,--"understand I will carry on my
life-mission as I choose, and never--never to satisfy every fool will I carry the ass." His
voice sank. "You know the fable."

"Your mission! The Public Prosecutor was right in saying it was to excite the non-possessing
classes to hatred and contempt of the possessing class."

"He was. I live but to point out to the working-man how he is exploited by capitalists like you."

"And ruin your own sister!"

"Ha, ha! So you're afraid I shall succeed. Good!" His blue eyes blazed. He stood still, an
image of triumphant Will.

"You will succeed only in disgracing your relatives," said Friedland sullenly.

His brother-in-law broke into Homeric laughter. "Ho, ho," he cried. "Now I see. You are afraid
that I'll come to Prague, that I'll visit you and cry out to your fashionable circle: 'I, Ferdinand
Lassalle, the pernicious demagogue of all your journals, Governmental and Progressive alike,
the thief of the casket-trial, the Jew-traitor, the gaol-bird, I am the brother-in-law of your
host,' And so you've rushed to Berlin to break off with me. Ho, ho, ho!"

Friedland gave him a black look and rushed from the room. Lassalle laughed on, scarcely noticing
his departure. His brain was busy with that comical scene, the recall of which had put the
enemy to flight. On his migration from Berlin to Prague, when he got the gas-contract, Friedland,
by a profuse display of his hospitality, and a careful concealment of his Jewish birth, wormed
his way among families of birth and position, and finally into the higher governmental circles.
One day, when he was on the eve of dining the élite of Prague, Lassalle's old father turned
up accidentally on a visit to his daughter and son-in-law. Each in turn besought him hurriedly
not to let slip that they were Jews. The old man was annoyed, but made no reply. When all the
guests were seated, old Lassalle rose to speak, and when silence fell, he asked if they knew
they were at a Jew's table. "I hold it my duty to inform you," he said, "that I am a Jew, that
my daughter is a Jewess, and my son-in-law a Jew. I will not purchase by deceit the honor of
dining with you." The well-bred guests cheered the old fellow, but the host was ghastly with
confusion, and never forgave him.

III

But Lassalle's laughter soon ceased. Another recollection stabbed him to silence. The old man
was dead--that beautiful, cheerful old man. Never more would his blue eyes gaze in proud tenderness
on his darling brilliant boy. But a few months ago and he had seemed the very type of ruddy
old age. How tenderly he had watched over his poor broken-down old wife, supporting her as
she walked, cutting up her food as she ate, and filling her eyes with the love-light, despite
all her pain and weakness. And now this poor, deaf, shrivelled little mother, had to totter
on alone. "Father, what have you to do to-day?" he remembered asking him once. "Only to love
you, my child," the old man had answered cheerily, laying his hand on his son's shoulder.

Yes, he had indeed loved him. What long patience from his childhood upwards; patience with
the froward arrogant boy, a law to himself even in forging his parents' names to his school-notes,
and meditating suicide because his father had beaten him for demanding more elegant clothes;
patience with the emotional volcanic youth to whose grandiose soul a synod of professors reprimanding
him seemed unclean crows and ravens pecking at a fallen eagle that had only to raise quivering
wings to fly towards the sun; patience with his refusal to enter a commercial career, and carry
on the prosperous silk business; patience even with his refusal to study law and medicine.
"But what then do you wish to study, my boy? At sixteen one must choose decisively."

"The vastest study in the world, that which is most closely bound up with the most sacred interests
of humanity--History."

"But what will you live on, since, as a Jew, you can't get any post or professorship in Prussia?"

"Oh, I shall live somehow."

"But why won't you study medicine or law?"

"Doctors, lawyers, and even savants, make a merchandise of their knowledge. I will have nothing
of the Jew. I will study for the sake of knowledge and action."

"Do you think you are a poet?"

"No, I wish to devote myself to public affairs. The time approaches when the most sacred ends
of humanity must be fought for. Till the end of the last century the world was held in the
bondage of the stupidest superstition. Then rose, at the mighty appeal of intellect, a material
force which blew the old order into bloody fragments. Intellectually this revolt has gone on
ever since. In every nation men have arisen who have fought by the Word, and fallen or conquered.
Börne says that no European sovereign is blind enough to believe his grandson will have a throne
to sit on. I wish I could believe so. For my part, father, I feel that the era of force must
come again, for these folk on the thrones will not have it otherwise. But for the moment it
is ours not to make the peoples revolt, but to enlighten and raise them up."

"What you say may not be altogether untrue, but why should you be a martyr,--you, our hope,
our stay? Spare us. One human being can change nothing in the order of the world. Let those
fight who have no parents' hearts to break."

"Yes, but if every one talked like that--! Why offer myself as a martyr? Because God has put
in my breast a voice which calls me to the struggle, has given me the strength that makes fighters.
Because I can fight and suffer for a noble cause. Because I will not disappoint the confidence
of God, who has given me this strength for His definite purpose. In short, because I cannot
do otherwise."

Yes, looking back, he saw he could not have done otherwise, though for that old voice of God
in his heart he now substituted mentally the Hegelian concept of the Idea trying to realize
itself through him, Shakespeare's "prophetic soul of the wide world dreaming on things to come."
The Will of God was the Will of the Time-spirit, and what was True for the age was whatever
its greatest spirits could demonstrate to it by reason and history. The world had had enough
of merely dithyrambic prophets, it was for the Modern Prophet to heat with his fire the cannon-balls
of logic and science; he must be a thinker among prophets and a prophet among thinkers. Those
he could not inspire through emotion must be led through reason. There must be not one weak
link in his close-meshed chain of propositions. And who could doubt that what the Time-spirit
was working towards among the Germans--the Chosen People in the eternal plan of the universe
for this new step in human evolution--was the foundation of a true Kingdom of right, a Kingdom
of freedom and equality, a State which should stand for justice on earth, and material and
spiritual blessedness for all? But his father had complained not unjustly. Why should he have
been chosen for the Man--the Martyr--through whom the Idea sought self-realization? It was
a terrible fate to be Moses, to be Prometheus. No doubt that image of himself he read in the
faces of his friends, and in the loving eyes of the Countess Hatzfeldt--that glorious wonder-youth
gifted equally with genius and beauty--must seem enviable enough, yet to his own heart how
chill was this lonely greatness. And youth itself was passing--was almost gone.

IV

But he shook off this rare sombre mood, and awoke to the full consciousness that Friedland
was fled. Well, better so. The stupid fool would come back soon enough, and to-day, with Prince
Puckler-Muskau, Baron Korff, General de Pfuel, and von Bülow the pianist, coming to lunch,
and perhaps Wagner, if he could finish his rehearsal of "Lohengrin" in time, he was not sorry
to see his table relieved of the dull pomposity and brilliant watch-chain of the pillar of
Prague society. How mean to hide one's Judaism! What a burden to belong to such a race, degenerate
sons of a great but long-vanished past, unable to slough the slave traits engendered by centuries
of slavery! How he had yearned as a boy to shake off the yoke of the nations, even as he himself
had shaken off the yoke of the Law of Moses. Yes, the scaffold itself would have been welcome,
could he but have made the Jews a respected people. How the persecution of the Jews of Damascus
had kindled the lad of fifteen! A people that bore such things was hideous. Let them suffer
or take vengeance. Even the Christians marvelled at their sluggish blood, that they did not
prefer swift death on the battle-field to the long torture. Was the oppression against which
the Swiss had rebelled one whit greater? Cowardly people! It merited no better lot. And he
recalled how, when the ridiculous story that the Jews make use of Christian blood cropped up
again at Rhodes and Lemnos, he had written in his diary that the universal accusation was a
proof that the time was nigh when the Jews in very sooth would help themselves with Christian
blood. Aide-toi, le ciel t'aidera. And ever in his boyish imagination he had seen himself at
the head of an armed nation, delivering it from bondage, and reigning over a free people. But
these dreams had passed with childhood. He had found a greater, grander cause, that of the
oppressed German people, ground down by capitalists and the Iron Law of Wages, and all that
his Judaism had brought him was a prejudice the more against him, a cheap cry of Jew-demagogue,
to hamper his larger fight for humanity. And yet was it not strange?--they were all Jews, his
friends and inspirers; Heine and Börne in his youth, and now in his manhood, Karl Marx. Was
it perhaps their sense of the great Ghetto tragedy that had quickened their indignation against
all wrong?

Well, human injustice was approaching its term at last. The Kingdom of Heaven on earth was
beginning to announce itself by signs and portents. The religion of the future was dawning--the
Church of the People. "O father, father!" he cried, "if you could have lived to see my triumph!"

V

There was a knock at the door.

His man appeared, but, instead of announcing the Countess Hatzfeldt, as Lassalle's face expected,
he tendered a letter.

Lassalle's face changed yet again, and the thought of the Countess died out of it as he caught
sight of the graceful writing of Sophie de Solutzew. What memories it brought back of the first
real passion of his life, when, whirled off his feet by an unsuspected current, enchanted yet
astonished to be no longer the easy conqueror throwing crumbs of love to poor fluttering woman,
he had asked the Russian girl to share his strife and triumphs. That he should want to marry
her had been as amazing to him as her refusal. What talks they had had in this very room, when
she passed through Berlin with her ailing father! How he had suffered from the delay of her
decision, foreseen, yet none the less paralyzing when it came. And yet no, not paralyzing;
he could not but recognize that the shock had in reality been a stimulation. It was in the
reaction against his misery, in the subtle pleasure of a temptation escaped despite himself,
and of regained freedom to work for his great ideals, that he had leapt for the first time
into political agitation. The episode had made him reconsider, like a great sickness or a bereavement.
It had shown him that life was slipping, that afternoon was coming, that in a few more years
he would be forty, that the "Wonder-Child," as Humboldt had styled him, was grown to mature
man, and that all the vent he had as yet found for his great gifts was a series of scandalous
law-suits and an esoteric volume of the philosophy of Heraclitus the Dark. And now, coming
to him in the midst of his great spurt, this letter from the quieter world of three years ago--though
he himself had provoked it--seemed almost of dreamland. Its unexpected warmth kindled in him
something of the old glow. Brussels! She was in western Europe again, then. Yes, she still
possessed the Heine letter he required; only it was in her father's possession, and she had
written to him to Russia to send it on. Her silence had been due to pique at the condition
Lassalle had attached to acceptance of the mere friendship she offered him, to wit, that, like
all his friends, she must write him two letters to his one. "Inconsiderate little creature!"
he thought, smiling but half resentful. But, though she had now only that interest for him
which the woman who has refused one never quite loses, she stirred again his sense of the foolish
emptiness of loveless life. His brilliant reputation as scholar and orator and potential leader
of men; his personal fascination, woven of beauty, wit, elegance, and a halo of conquest, that
made him the lion of every social gathering, and his little suppers to celebrities the talk
of Berlin--what a hollow farce it all was! And his thoughts flew not to Sophie but to the new
radiance that had flitted across his life. He called up the fading image of the brilliant Helene
von Dönniges whom he had met a year before at the Hirsemenzels. He lived again through that
wonderful evening, that almost Southern episode of mutual love at first sight.

He saw himself holding the salon rapt with his wonderful conversation. A silvery voice says
suddenly, "No, I don't agree with you." He turns his head in astonishment. O the piquante,
golden-haired beauty, adorably white and subtle, the dazzling shoulders, the coquettish play
of the lorgnette, the wit, the daring, the diablerie. "So it's a no, a contradiction, the first
word I hear of yours. So this is you. Yes, yes, it is even thus I pictured you." She is rising
to beg the hostess to introduce them, but he places his hand gently on her arm. "Why? We know
each other. You know who I am, and you are Brunehild, Adrienne Cardoville of the Wandering
Jew, the gold chestnut hair that Captain Korff has told me of, in a word--Helene!" The whole
salon regards them, but what are the others but the due audience to this splendid couple taking
the centre of the stage by the right divine of a love too great for drawing-room conventions,
calling almost for orchestral accompaniment by friend Wagner! He talks no more save to her,
he sups at her side, he is in boyish ecstasies over her taste in wines. And when, at four in
the morning, he throws her mantle over her shoulders and carries her down the three flights
of stairs to her carriage, even her prudish cousinly chaperon seems to accept this as but the
natural manner in which the hero takes possession of his heaven-born bride.

So rousing to his sleeping passion was his sudden abandonment to this old memory, that he now
went to a drawer and rummaged for her photograph. After the Baron, her father, that ultra-respectable
Bavarian diplomatist, had refused to hear her speak of the Jew-demagogue, Lassalle had asked
her to send him her portrait, as he wished to build a house adorned with frescoes, and the
artist was to seek in her the inspiration of his Brunehild. In the rush of his life, project
and photograph had been alike neglected. He had let her go without much effort--in a way he
still considered her his, since the opposition had not come from her. But had he been wise
to allow this drifting apart? Great political events might be indeed maturing, but oh, how
slowly, and there was always that standing danger of her "Moorish Prince"--the young Wallachian
student, Janko von Racowitza, the "dragon who guards my treasure," as he had once called him,
and who, though betrothed to her, was the slave of her caprices, ready to sacrifice himself
if she loved another better, a gentle, pliant creature Lassalle could scarcely understand,
especially considering his princely blood.

When he at last came upon the photograph, he remembered with a thrill that her birthday was
at hand. She would be of age in a day or two, no longer the puppet of her father's will.

VI

When a little later the Countess Hatzfeldt was announced, he had forgotten he was expecting
her. He slipped the photograph back among the papers, and moved forward hurriedly to greet her.

Her face was the face of the beautiful portrait on the wall, grown twice as old, but with the
lines of beauty still clear under the unnecessary touches of rouge, so that sometimes, despite
her frosted hair, one could imagine her life at its spring-tide. This was especially so when
the sunshine leapt into her eyes. But, at her oldest, there remained to her the dignity of
the Princess born, the charm of the woman of virile intellect and vast social experience.

"Something is troubling you," she said.

He smiled reassuringly. "My brother-in-law popped in from Prague. He read me a sermon."

"That would not trouble you, Ferdinand."

Lassalle was silent.

"You have heard again from that Sophie de Solutzew!"

"Divinatrix! After three years! You are wonderful as ever, Countess."

The compliment did not lighten her features. They looked haggard, almost their real age.

"It is not the moment for petticoats--with the chance of your life before you and months of
imprisonment hanging over your head."

"Oh, I am certain my appeal will get me off with a fine at most. You must remember, Countess,
that only once in my life, despite incessant snares, have the fowlers really caged me. And
even then I was let out every time I had to plead in one of your cases. It was quite illegal,"
and he laughed at the recollection of the many miracles his eloquence, now insinuating, now
menacing, had achieved.

"Yes, you are marvellous."

"I marvel at myself."

"Let me see your new 'Open Sesame.' Is it ready?"

"No, no, Sophie," he said banteringly. "You know you mean you want to see your namesake's letter."

"That is not my concern."

"O Countess!" He tendered the letter.

"Hum," she said, casting a rapid eye over it. "Then you wrote her first."

"Only because the letter was wanted for the new edition of Heine, and I had no copy of it.".

"But I have a copy."

"You? Where?"

"In my heart, mon cher enfant. Why should I not remember the great poet's words? 'Dearest brother-in-arms--Never
have I found in any other but you so much passion united with so much clairvoyance in action.
You have truly the divine right of autocracy. I only feel a humble fly....'" She paused and
smiled at him. "You see."

"Perfect," cried Lassalle, who had been listening complacently. "But it's not that letter.
The letter of introduction he gave me to Varnhagen von Ense when I was a boy of twenty--in
the year we met."

"How should I not remember that? Was it not the first you showed me?"

A sigh escaped her. In that year when he had won her love, she had been just twice as old as
he. Now, despite arithmetic, she felt three times his age.

"I will dictate it to you," she went on; "and you can send it to the publisher and be done
with it."

"My rare Countess, my more than mother," he said, touched, "that you should have carried all
that in your dear, wise head."

"'My friend, Herr Lassalle, the bearer of this letter, is a young man of extraordinary talent.
To the most profound erudition and the greatest insight and the richest gifts of expression,
he unites--'"

"Doesn't it also say, 'that I have ever met?'"

"Yes, yes; my head is leaving me. Put it in after 'insight.' 'He unites an energy of will and
an attitude for action which plunge me into astonishment.'"

"You see," interrupted Lassalle, looking up; "Heine saw at once the difference between me and
Karl Marx. Marx is, when all is said and done, a student, and his present address is practically
the British Museum. In mere knowledge I do not pretend to superiority. What language, what
art, what science, is unknown to him? But he has run almost entirely to brain. He works out
his thoughts best in mathematics--the Spinoza of socialism. But fancy Spinoza leading a people;
and even Spinoza had more glow. When I went to see him in London in the winter to ask him to
head the movement with me, he objected to my phraseology, dissected my battle-cries in cold
blood. I preach socialism as a religion, the Church of the People--he won't even shout 'Truth
and Justice!' He will only prove you scientifically that the illusion of the masses that Right
is not done them will goad them to express their Might. And his speeches! Treatises, not trumpets!
Once after one of his speeches in the prisoner's box, a juror shook hands with him, and thanked
him for his instructive lecture. Ha! ha! ha! Take my System of Acquired Rights, now."--Lassalle
was now launched on one of his favorite monologues, and the Countess at least never desired
to interrupt him.--"There you have learning and logic that has forced the most dry-as-dust
to hail it as a masterpiece of Jurisprudence. But it is enrooted in life, and drew its sustenance
from my actual practice in fighting my dear Countess's battles. As Heine goes on to say, savoir
and pouvoir are rarely united. Luther was a man of action, but his thought was not the widest.
Lessing was a man of thought, but he died broken on the wheel of fortune. It was a combination
of the two I tried to paint in my Ulrich von Hutten--the Humanist who transcended Luther and
who was the morning star of the true Reformation. You remember his Frankfort student who, having
mistakenly capped a Jew, could not decide whether the sin was mortal or venial. But though
I put my own self into him, I shall not be beaten like him." He jumped to his feet and threw
down his pen so that it stood quivering in the table. "For surely it was of me that Heine was
thinking when he wrote: 'Yes, a third man will come'"--and Lassalle's accent became dramatically
sonorous--"'and he will conclude what Luther began, what Lessing continued, a man of whom the
Fatherland stands in such need, The Third Liberator.'"

"The Third Liberator," passionately echoed the Countess.

"Do you know," he went on, "I've often fancied it was I who gave Heine the line of thought
he developed in his sketch of German philosophy, that our revolution will be the outcome of
our Philosophy, that in the earthquake will be heard the small still voice of Kant and Hegel.
It is what I tried to say the other day in my address on Fichte. It is pure thought that will
build up the German Empire. Reality--with its fragments, Prussia, Saxony, etc.--will have to
remould itself after the Idea of a unified German--Republic. Why do you smile?" he broke off
uneasily, with a morbid memory of his audience drifting away into the refreshment room.

"I was thinking of Heine's saying that we Germans are a methodical nation, to take our thinking
first and our revolution second, because the heads that have been used for thinking may be
afterwards used for chopping off. But if you chopped off heads first, like the French, they
could not be of much use to philosophy."

Lassalle laughed. "I love Heine. He seemed my soul's brother. I loved him from boyhood, only
regretting he wasn't a republican like Börne. Would he could have lived to see the triumph
of his prediction, the old wild Berserker rage that will arise among us Teutons when the Talisman
of the Cross breaks at last, as break it must, and the old gods come to their own again. A
tooth for a tooth, an eye for an eye. The canting tyrants shall bite the dust, the false judges
shall be judged."

"That is how I like you to talk."

He smote the table with his fist. His own praises had fired him, though his marvellous memory
that could hold even the complete libretti of operas had been little in doubt as to Heine's
phrasing.

"Yes, the holy alliance of Science and the People--those opposite poles! They will crush between
their arms of steel all that opposes the higher civilization. The State, the immemorial vestal
fire of all civilization--what a good phrase! I must write that down for my Kammergericht speech."

"And at the same time finish this Heine business, please, and be done with that impertinent
demoiselle. What! she must have letter for letter! Of course it's a blessing she ceased to
correspond with you. But all the same, just see what these creatures are. No sympathy with
the wear and tear of your life. All petty egotisms and vanities! What do they care about your
world-reaching purposes? Yes, they'll sit at your feet, but their own enjoyment or mental development
is all they're thinking of. These Russian girls are the most dreadful. I know hundreds like
your Sophie. They're a typical development of our new-fangled age. They even take nominal husbands,
merely to emancipate themselves from the parental roof. I wonder she didn't play you that trick.
And now she's older and has got over her pique, she sees what she has lost. But you will not
be drawn in again?"

"No; you may rely on that," said Lassalle.

Her face became almost young.

"You are so ignorant of woman, mon cher enfant," she said, smoothing his brown curly hair;
"you are really an infant, without judgment or reason where they are concerned."

"And you are so ignorant of man," thought Lassalle, for his repudiation of the Russian girl
had brought up vividly the vision of his enchanting Brunehild. Did the Countess then think
that a man could feed for ever on memories? True, she had gracefully declined into a quasi-maternal
position, but a true mother would have felt more strongly that the relation was not so sufficing
to him as to her.

The Countess seemed to divine what was passing through his mind. "If you could get a wife worthy
of you," she cried. "A brain to match yours, a soul to feel yours, a heart to echo the drum-beat
of yours, a mate for your dungeon or your throne, ready for either--but where is this paragon?"

"You are right," cried Lassalle, subtly gratified. After all Helene was a child with a child's
will, broken by the first obstacle. "Never have I met a woman I could really feel my mate.
If ever I have kindled a soul in one, it has been for a moment. No, I have always known I must
live and die alone. I have told you of my early love for the beautiful Rosalie Zander, my old
comrade's sister, who still lives unmarried for love of me. But I knew that to marry her would
mean crippling myself through my tenderness. Alone I can suffer all, but how drag a weaker
than myself into the tragic circle of my destinies? No, Curtius must leap into his gulf alone."

His words soothed her, but had a sting in them.

"But your happiness must be before all," she said, not without meaning it. "Only convince me
that you have found your equal, and she shall be yours in the twinkling of an eye. I shouldn't
even allow love-letters to intervene--you are so colossal. Your Titanic emotions overflow into
hundreds of pages. You are the most uneconomical man I ever met."

He smiled.

"A volcano is not an ant-heap. But I know you are right. For Lassalle the Fighter the world
holds no wife. If I could only be sure that the victory will come in my day."

"Remember what your own Heraclitus said: 'The best follow after fame.'"

"Yes, Fame is the Being of Man in Non-Being. It is the immortality of man made real," he quoted
himself. "But--"

She hastened to continue his quotation. "'Hence it has always so mightily stirred the greatest
souls and lifted them beyond all petty and narrow ends.'"

"The ends are great--but the means, how petty! The Presidency of a Working-Men's Union, one
not even to be founded in Berlin."

"But yet a General German Working-Men's Union. Who knows what it may grow to! The capture of
Berlin will be a matter of days."

"I had rather capture it with the sword. Bismarck is right. The German question can only be
solved by blood and iron."

"Is it worth while going over that ground again? Did we not agree last year in Caprera when
Garibaldi would not see his way to invading Austria for us, that we must put our trust in peaceful
methods. You have as yet no real following at all. The Progressists will never make a Revolution,
for all their festivals and fanfaronades. This National League of theirs is only a stage-threat."

"Yes, Bismarck knows our weak-kneed, white-livered bourgeois too well to be taken in by it.
The League talks and Bismarck is silent. Oh, if I had a majority in the Chamber, as they have,
I'd leave him to do the talking."

"But even if their rant was serious, they would allow you no leadership in their revolution.
Have they not already rejected your overtures? Therefore this deputation to you of the Leipzig
working-men (whom they practically rejected by offering them honorary membership) is simply
providential. The conception of a new and real Progressive Party that is seething in their
minds under the stimulus of their contact with socialism in London--you did write that they
had been in London?"

"Yes; they went over to see the Exhibition. But they also represent, I take it, the old communistic
and revolutionary traditions, that have never been wholly lulled to sleep by our pseudo-Liberalism.
But that is how history repeats itself. When the middle classes oppose the upper classes, they
always have the air of fighting for the whole majority. But the day soon comes, especially
if the middle classes get into power, when the lower classes discover there never was any real
union of interests!"

"Well, that's just your chance!" cried the Countess. "Here is a new party waiting to be called
out of chaos, nay, calling to you. An unformed party is just what you want. You give it the
impress of your own personality. Remember your own motto: Si superos nequeo movere Acheronta
movebo."

Lassalle shook his head doubtfully. He had from the first practically resolved on developing
the vague ideas of the Deputation, but he liked to hear his own reasons in the mouth of the
Countess.

"The headship of a party not even in existence," he murmured. "That doesn't seem a very short
cut to the German Republic."

"Do you doubt yourself? Think of what you were when you took up my cause--a mere unknown boy.
Think how you fought it from court to court, picking up your Law on the way, a Demosthenes,
a Cicero, till all the world wondered and deemed you a demigod. You did that because I stood
for Injustice. You were the Quixote to right all wrong. You saw the universal in the individual.
My case was but a prefiguration of your real mission. Now it is the universal that calls to
you. See in your triumph for me your triumph for that suffering humanity, with which you have
taught me to sympathize."

"My noble Countess!"

"What does your own Franz von Sickingen say of history?

    "'And still its Form remains for ever Force.'

The Force of the modern world is the working-man. And as you yourself have taught me that there
are no real revolutions except those that formally express what is already a fact, there wants
then only the formal expression of the working-man's Force. To this Force you will now give Form."

"What an apt pupil!" He stooped and kissed her lips. Then, walking about agitatedly: "Yes,"
he cried; "I will weld the workers of Germany--to gain their ends they must fuse all their
wills into one--none of these acrid, petty, mutually-destructive individualities of the bourgeois--one
gigantic hammer, and I will be the Thor who wields it." His veins swelled, he seemed indeed
a Teutonic god. "And therefore I must have Dictator's rights," he went on. "I will not accept
the Presidency to be the mere puppet of possible factions."

"There speaks Ferdinand Lassalle! And now, mon cher enfant, you deserve to hear my secret."

She smiled brilliantly.

His heart beat a little quicker as he bent his ear to her customary whisper. Her secrets were
always interesting, sometimes sensational, and there was always a pleasure in the sense of
superiority that knowledge conferred, and in the feeling of touching, through his Princess-Countess,
the inmost circles of European diplomacy. He was of the gods, and should know whatever was
on the knees of his fellow-gods.

"Bismarck is thinking of granting Universal Suffrage!"

"Universal Suffrage!" he shouted.

"Hush, hush! Walls have ears."

"Then I must have inspired him."

"No; but you will have."

"How do you mean? Is it not my idea?"

"Implicitly, perhaps, but you have never really pressed for it specifically. Your only contribution
to practical politics is a futile suggestion that the Diet should refuse to sit, and so cut
off supplies. Now of course Universal Suffrage is the first item of the programme of your Working-Men's
Union."

"Sophie!"

She smiled and nodded. "Why should Bismarck have the credit," she whispered, "for what is practically
your idea? You will seem to exact it from him by the force of your new party, which will peg
away at that one point like the Anti-Corn-Law people in England."

"Yes; but I'll have no Manchester state-concepts."

"I know, I know. Now even if Bismarck hesitates,"--she made her whisper still lower--"there
are foreign complications looming that will make it impossible for him to ignore the masses.
Now I understand that what the Leipzig working-men suggest is that you shall write them an
Open Letter."

"Yes. In it I shall counsel the creation of the Fourth Party, I shall declare that the Progressists
do not represent the People at all, that their pretensions are as impertinent as their threats
are hollow, that there is no People behind them. It will be a thunderbolt! Like Luther's nailing
his theses to the church-door at Wittenberg. And to the real masses themselves I shall declare:
'You are the rock on which the Church of the Present is to be built. Steep yourselves in the
thought of this, your mission. The vices of the oppressed, the idle indifference of the thoughtless,
and even the harmless frivolity of the unimportant no longer become you.' And I shall teach
them how to exact from the State the capital for co-operative associations that will oust the
capitalist."

"And make them capitalists themselves?"

"That is what Rodbertus and Marx object. But you must give the working-man something definite,
you must educate him gradually."

"Put that second if you will, but Universal Suffrage must be first."

"Naturally. It will be the instrument to force the second."

"It will be the instrument to force you to the front. Bismarck will appear the mere tool of
your will. Who knows but that the King himself may be a pawn on your board!"

Lassalle seized her hands. "There I recognize my soul's mate."

"And I recognize the voice of the von Bulows," she said, with a half-sob in her laughter, as
she drew back.

The lunch was brilliant, blending the delicate perfume of aristocracy with free-and-easy Bohemianism,
and enhanced by the artistic background of pictures, bric-à-brac, and marble facsimiles of
the masterpieces of statuary, including the Venus of Milo and the Apollo Belvedere.

The Countess stayed only long enough to smoke a couple of cigarettes, but the other guests
were much longer in shaking off the fascination of Lassalle's boyish spirits and delightful
encyclopædic monologues. When the last guest was gone, Lassalle betook himself to the best
florist in Berlin, composing a birthday poem on the way. At the shop he wrote it down, and,
signing it "F.L.," placed it in the most beautiful basket of flowers he could find. The direction
was Fräulein Helene von Dönniges.

VII

The "Open Reply Letter" did not thrill the world like a Lutheran thesis, but it made the Progressists
very angry. What! they had not the People behind them! They were only exploiting, not representing
the People! And while the Court organs chuckled over this flank attack on their bragging foes,
the Liberal organs denounced Lassalle as the catspaw of reaction. The whilom "friends of the
working-man," in their haste to overturn Lassalle's position, tumbled into their own pits.
Schulze-Delitzsch himself, founder of co-operative working-men's societies, denouncer of the
middleman, now found himself--in the face of Lassalle's uncompromising analysis--praising the
Law of Competition, while that Iron Law of Wages, their tendency to fall to the minimum of
subsistence (which was in the canon of all orthodox economists), was denied the moment it was
looked at resentfully from the wage-earner's standpoint. Herculean labors now fell upon Lassalle--a
great speech of four hours at Frankfort-on-the-Main, the founding of the General German Working-Men's
Union, with himself as dictator for five years, the delivery of inflammatory speeches in town
after town, the publishing of pamphlets against the Progressists, attempts to capture Berlin
for the cause, the successful fighting of his own law-case. And amid all this, the writing
of one of his most wonderful and virulent books, at once deeply instructing and passionately
inflaming the German working-man.

And always the same sledge-hammer hitting at the same nail--Universal Suffrage. Get that and
you may get everything. Nourish no resentment against the capitalists. They are the product
of history as much as your happier children will be. But on the other hand, no inertia, no
submission! Wake up! English or French working-men would follow me in a trice. You are a pack
of valets.

In such a whirl Helene von Dönniges was shot off from his mind as a spinning-top throws off
a straw.

But when, after a couple of months of colossal activity, incessant correspondence, futile attempts
to convert friends, quarrels with the authorities, grapplings with the internal cabals of the
Union itself, he fled on his summer tour--where was the great new Party? He had hoped to have
five hundred thousand men at his back, but they had come in by beggarly hundreds. There was
even talk of an insurance bonus to attract them. Lassalle had exaggerated both the magnetism
of his personality and the intelligence and discontent of the masses. His masterful imagination
had made the outer world a mere reflection of his inner world. Even in those early days, when
he was scarcely known, and that favorably rather than otherwise, he had imagined himself the
pet aversion of the comfortable classes. Knowing the rôle he purposed to play, his dramatic
self-consciousness had reaped in anticipation the rebel's reward. And now, though he was nearer
detestation than before, there was still no Party of revolt for him to lead. But he worked
on undaunted, Titanic, spending his money to subsidize tottering democratic papers, using his
summer journeyings to try to attach not abilities in the countries he passed through, and his
stay at the waters to draw up a great speech, with which he toured on his return. And now a
new cry! The cowardly venal Press must be swept away. "As true as you are here, hanging on
my lips, eager and transported, as true as my soul trembles with the purest enthusiasm in pouring
itself wholly into yours, so truly does the certainty penetrate me that a day will come when
we shall launch the thunderbolt which will bury that Press in eternal night." He proposed that
the newspapers should therefore be deprived of their advertisement columns. What wonder if
they accused him of playing Bismarck's game! And, indeed, there was not wanting direct mention
of Bismarck in the speech. He at least was a man, while the Progressists were old women. The
orator mocked their festive demonstrations. They were like the Roman slaves who, during the
Saturnalia, played at being free. To spare themselves a real battle, the defeated were intoning
among the wines and the victuals a hymn of victory. "Let us lift up our arms and pledge ourselves,
if this Revolution should come about, whether in this way or in that, to remember that the
Progressists and members of the National League to the last declared they wanted no revolution!
Pledge yourselves to do this, raise your hands on high!" At the Sonningen meeting in the great
shooting-gallery, they not only raised their hands, but their knives, against interrupting
Progressists. The Burgomaster, a Progressist, at the head of ten gendarmes armed with bayonets,
and policemen with drawn swords, dissolved the meeting. Lassalle, half followed, half borne
onward by six thousand cheering men, strode to the telegraph office, and sent off a telegram
to Bismarck. His working-men's meeting had been dissolved by a Progressist Burgomaster without
any legal justification. "I ask for the severest, promptest legal satisfaction."

VIII

Bismarck took no official notice. But it was not long before the Countess succeeded in bringing
the two men together. The way had indeed been paved. If Lassalle's idealism had survived the
experience of the Hatzfeldt law-suits, if he had yet to learn that the Fighter cannot pick
his steps as cleanly and logically as the Thinker, those miry law-suits, waged unscrupulously
on both sides, had prepared him to learn the lesson readily and to apply it unflinchingly.
Without Force behind one, victory must be sought more circuitously. But to a man who represents
no Force, how shall Bismarck listen? What have you to offer? "Do ut des" is his overt motto.
To poor devils I have nothing to say. Lassalle must therefore needs magnify his office of President,
wave his arm with an air of vague malcontent millions. Was Bismarck taken in? Who shall say?
In after-years, though he had in the meantime granted Universal Suffrage in Prussia, he told
the Reichstag he was merely fascinated by this marvellous conversationalist, who delighted
him for hours, without his being able to get a word in; by this grandiloquent Demagogue without
a Demos, who plainly loved Germany, yet was uncertain whether the German Empire would be formed
by a Hohenzollern dynasty or a Lassalle dynasty. And, in truth, since extremes meet, there
was much in Lassalle's conception of the State, and in his German patriotism, which made him
subtly akin to the Conservative Chancellor. They walked arm-in-arm in the streets of Berlin,
Bismarck parading heart on sleeve; they discussed the annexation of Schleswig-Holstein. Bismarck
promised both Universal Suffrage and State-Capitalized Associations--"only let us wait till
the war is done with!" En attendant, the profit of his strange alliance with this thorn in
his enemies' flesh, was wholly to the Minister. But Lassalle, exalted to forgetfulness of the
pettiness of the army at his back, almost persuaded himself to believe as he believed Bismarck
believed. "Bismarck is my tool, my plenipotentiary," he declared to his friends. And to his
judges: "I play cards on table, gentlemen, for the hand is strong enough. Perhaps before a
year is over Universal Suffrage will be the law of the land, and Bismarck will have enacted
the rôle of Sir Robert Peel." He even gave his followers to understand that the King of Prussia's
promise to consider the condition of the Silesian weavers was the result of his pressure. And
was not the Bishop of Mayence an open partisan? Church, King, and Minister, do you not see
them all dragged at my chariot wheels? Nevertheless, he failed completely to organize a branch
at Berlin. And new impeachments for inciting to hatred and contempt, and for high-treason,
came to cripple his activity. "If I have glorified political passion," he cried in his defence,
"I have only followed Hegel's maxim: 'Nothing great has ever been done in the world without
passion.'"

He was in elegant evening dress, with patent-leather boots, the one cool person in the stifling
court. For hours and hours he spoke, with the perpetually changing accents of the great orator
who has so studied his art that it has become nature. Now he was winning, persuasive, now menacing,
terrible, now with disdainful smile and half-closed eyes of contempt. And ever and anon he
threw back his head with the insolent majesty of a Roman Emperor. Even when there was a touch
of personal pathos, defiance followed on its heels. "I used to go to gaol as others go to the
ball, but I am no longer young. Prison is hard for a mature man, and there is no article of
the code that entitles you to send me there." Yet six months' imprisonment was adjudged him,
and the most he could obtain by his ingeniously inexhaustible technical pleas was deferment
of his punishment.

But there was consolation in the memories of his triumphal tour through the Rhenish provinces,
where the Union had struck widest root. Town after town sent its whole population to greet
him. Roaring thousands met him at the railway stations, and he passed under triumphal arches
and through streets a-flutter with flags, where working-girls welcomed him with showers of
roses. "Such scenes as these," he wrote to the Countess, "must have attended the foundation
of new religions." And, indeed, as weeping working-men fought to draw his carriage, and as
he looked upon the vast multitudes surging around him, he could not but remember Heine's prophecy:
"You will be the Messiah of the nineteenth century."

"I have not grasped this banner," he cried at Ronsdorf, "without knowing quite clearly that
I myself may fall. But in the words of the Roman poet:

    "'Exoriare aliquis nostris ex ossibus ultor.'

May some avenger and successor arise out of my bones! May this great and national movement
of civilization not fall with my person. But may the conflagration which I have kindled spread
farther and farther as long as one of you still breathes!"

Those were his last words to the working-men of Germany.

For beneath all the flowers and the huzzahing what a tragedy of broken health and broken hopes!
Each glowing speech represented a victory over throat-disease and over his own fits of scepticism.
His nerves, shattered by the tremendous strain of the year, the fevers, the disillusions, the
unprofitable shiftings of standpoint, painted the prospect as black as they had formerly ensanguined
it. And the six months' imprisonment hanging over him gained added terrors from his physical
breakdown. Even on his eider-down bed he could not woo sleep--how then on a prison pallet?

When he started the Union he had imagined he could bring the Socialistic movement to a head
in a year. When, after a year as crammed as many a lifetime, he went down at the Countess's
persuasion to take the milk-cure at Kaltbad on the Righi, he confessed to his friend Becker
that he saw no near hope save from a European war.

IX

One stormy day at the end of July, a bovine-eyed Swiss boy, dripping with rain, appeared at
the hygienic hotel, where Lassalle sat brooding with his feet on the mantelpiece, to tell him
that a magnificent lady wanted to see him. She was with a party that had taken refuge in a
mountain-side shed. A great coup his resurging energy was meditating at Hamburg, was swept
clean from his mind.

He dashed down, his heart beating with a hopeless surmise, and saw, amid a strange group, the
golden hair of Helene von Dönniges shining like a star. He accepted it at once as the star
of his destiny. His strength seemed flowing back in swift currents of glowing blood.

"By all the gods of Greece," he cried, "'tis she!"

In an instant they were lovers again, and her American friend and confidante, Mrs. Arson, was
enchanted by this handsome apparition, which, Helene protested, she had only summoned up half
laughingly. Dear old Holthoff had written her that Lassalle was somewhere on the Righi, but
she had not really believed she would stumble on him. She was suffering from nervous prostration,
and it was only the accident of Mrs. Arson's holiday plan for her children that had enabled
her to obey the doctor's advice to breathe mountain air.

"I breathe it for the first time," said Lassalle. "Do you know what I was doing when your boy-angel
came? Writing to Holthoff and old Bœckh the philologist for introductions to your father. The
game has dallied on long enough. We must finish."

Helene blushed charmingly, and looked at Mrs. Arson with a glance that sought protection against
and admiration for his audacity.

"I guess you're made for each other," said Mrs. Arson, carried off her feet. "Why, you're like
twins. Are you relatives?"

"That's what everybody asks," said Helene. "Why, even before I met him, people piqued my curiosity
about him by saying I talked like him."

"It was the best compliment I had ever received--said behind my back too. But people are right
for once. Do you know that the painter to whom I gave your portrait to inspire him for the
Brunehild fresco said that in drawing our two faces he discovered that they have exactly the
same anatomical structure."

Her face took on that fascinating diablerie which men found irresistible.

"Then your compliments to me are only boomerangs."

"Boomerangs only return when they miss."

The storm abating, they moved up the mountain, talking gaily. Mrs. Arson and her children kept
considerately in the rear with their guide. Helene admired Lassalle's stick. He handed it to her.

"It was Robespierre's. Förster the historian gave it me. That repoussé gold-work on the handle
is of course the Bastille."

"How appropriate!" she laughed.

"Which? The Bastille to the stick, or the stick to me?"

"Both."

He grew serious.

"What would you do if I lost my head?"

"I should stand by till your head was severed in order that you might look on your beloved
to the last. Then I should take poison."

"My Cleopatra!"

Her fitful face changed.

"Or marry Janko!"

"That weakling--is he still hovering?"

"He passed the winter with us. He looks upon me as his," she said dolefully.

"I flick him away. Do not try to belong to another. I tell you solemnly I claim you as mine.
We cannot resist destiny. Our meeting to-day proves it. To-morrow we climb to see the sunrise
together,--the sunrise over the mountains. Symbol of our future that begins. The heavens opening
in purple and gold over the white summits--love breaking upon your virginal purity."

Already she felt, as of yore, swept off on roaring seas. But the rush and the ecstasy had their
alloy of terror. To be with him was to be no longer herself, but a hypnotized stranger. Perhaps
she was unwise to have provoked this meeting. She should have remembered he was not to be coquetted
with. As well put a match to a gunpowder barrel to warm your fingers. Every other man could
be played with. This one swallowed you up.

"But Prince Janko has no one but me," she tried to protest. "My little Moorish page, my young
Othello!"

"Keep him a page. Othellos are best left bachelors. Remember the fate of Desdemona."

"I'll give you both up," she half whimpered. "I'll go on the stage."

"You!"

"Yes. Everybody says I'm splendid at burlesque. You should see me as a boy."

"You baby! You need no triumphs in the mimic world. Your rôle is grander."

"Oh, please let us wait for Mrs. Arson. You go too fast."

"I don't. I have waited a year for you. When shall we marry?"

"Not before our wedding-day."

"Evasive Helene!"

"Cruel Ferdinand! Ask anything of me, but not will-power."

A little cough came to accentuate her weakness.

"My darling!" he cried in deep emotion. "We'll fly to Egypt or the Indies. I'll hang up politics
and all that frippery. My books and science shall claim me again, and I will watch over my
ailing little girl till she becomes the old splendid Brunehild again!"

"No, no, I am no Brunehild; only a modern woman with nerves--the most feminine woman in the
world, irresponsible, capricious--please, please remember."

"If you were not yourself I should not love you."

"But it cannot come to anything."

"Cannot? The word is for pigmies."

"But my mother?"

"She is a woman--I will talk to her."

"My father!"

"He is a man, with men one can always get on. They are reasonable. Besides, you tell me he
is an author, and I will read his famous books."

She smiled faintly. "But there is myself."

"You are myself--and I never doubt myself."

"Oh, but there are heaps of other difficulties."

"There are none other."

She pouted deliciously. "You don't know everything under the sun."

"Under your aureole of hair, do you mean?"

"What if I do?" she smiled back. "You must not trust me too far. I am a spoilt child--wild,
unbridled, unaccustomed to please others except by pleasing myself."

Her actress-nature enjoyed the picture of herself. She felt that Baudelaire himself would have
admired it. Lassalle's answer was subtly attuned:

"My Satanic enchantress! my bewitching child of the devil."

"Bien fou qui s'y fie. When I lived at Nice in that royal Bohemia, where musicians rubbed shoulders
with grand-duchesses, and the King of Bavaria exchanged epigrams with Bulwer Lytton, do you
know what they called me?"

"The Queen of all the Follies!"

"You know?"

"Did I not love my Brunehild ere we met?"

"Yes, and I--knew of you. Only I didn't recognize you at first, because they told me you were
a frightful demagogue and--a--a--Jew!"

He laughed. "And so you expected a gaberdine. And yet surely Bulwer Lytton gave you a presentation
copy of Leila. Don't you remember the Jew in it? As a boy I had his ideal--to redeem my people.
But if my Judaism offends you, I can become a Christian--not in belief of course, but--"

"Oh, not for worlds. I believe too little myself to bother about religion. My friends call
me the Greek, because I can readily believe in many gods, but only with difficulty in one."

He laughed. "Is it the same in love?"

Her eyes gleamed archly.

"Yes. Hitherto, at least, a single man has never sufficed. With only one I had time to see
all his faults, and since my first love, a Russian officer, I would always have preferred to
keep three knives dancing in the air. But as that was impossible, I generally halved my loaf."

The mountains rang with his laughter.

"Well. I haven't lived a saint, and I can't expect my wife to bring more than I."

"You bring too much. You bring that Countess."

"My dear Helene," he said, struck serious. "I am entirely free in regard to the Countess, as
she is long since as regards me. Of course she will, at the first shock, feel opposed to my
marriage with a distinguished young girl on the same intellectual level as herself. That is
human, feminine, natural. But when she knows you she will adore you, and you will repay her
in kind, since she is my second mother. You do not understand her. The dear Countess desires
no other happiness than to see me happy."

"And therefore," said Helene cynically, "she will warn you to beware. She will hunt up all
my offences against holy German morals--"

"I don't care what she hunts up. All I ask is, be a monotheist henceforwards."

"Now you are asking me to become a Jewess."

"I ask you only to become my wife."

He caught her hands passionately. His eyes seemed to drink her in. She fluttered, enjoying
her bird-like helplessness.

"Turn your eyes away, my royal eagle!"

"You are mine! you are mine!" he cried.

"I am my father's--I am Janko's," she panted.

"They are shadows. Listen to yourself. Be true to yourself."

"I have no self. It seems so selfish to have one. I am anything--a fay, a sprite, an elf."
She freed her hands with a sudden twist and ran laughing up the mountain.

"To the sunrise!" she cried. "To the sunrise!"

He gave chase: "To the sunrise! To the symbol!"

X

But the next morning the symbolic sunrise they rose to see was hidden by fog and rain.

And--what was still more disappointing to Lassalle--Mrs. Arson insisted on escaping with her
charges from this depressing climate and re-descending to Wabern, the village near Berne, where
they had been staying.

Not even Lassalle's fascinations and persuasions could counteract the pertinacious plash-plash
of-the rain, and the chilling mist, and perhaps the uneasy pricks of her awakening chaperon-conscience.
Nor could he extract a decisive "Yes" from his fluttering volatile enchantress. At Kaltbad,
where they said farewell, he pressed her hands with passion. "For a little while! Be prudent
and strong! You have the goodness of a child--and a child's will. Oh, if I could pour into
these blue veins"--he kissed them fiercely--"only one drop of my giant's will, of my Titanic
energy. Grip my hands; perhaps I can do it by magnetism. I will to join our lives. You must
will too. Then there are no difficulties. Only say 'Yes'--but definitely, unambiguously, of
your own free will--and I answer for the rest."

The thought of Janko resurged painfully when his giant's will was left behind on the heights.
How ill she would be using him--her pretty delicate boy!

The giant's will left behind her? Never had Helene been more mistaken. The very reverse! It
went before her all day like a pillar of fire. At the first stopping-place a letter already
awaited her, brought by a swift courier; lower down a telegram; as she got off her horse another
letter; at her hotel two copious telegrams; as she stepped on board the lake steamer a final
letter--all breathing passion, encouragement, solicitous instructions to wrap up well.

Wrap up well! He wrapped one up in himself!

Half fascinated, half panting for free air, but wholly flattered and enamoured, she wrote at
once to break off with Janko and surrender to her Satanic Ferdinand.

"Yes, friend Satan, the child wills! A drop of your diabolical blood has passed into her veins.
I am yours for life. But first try reasonable means. Make my parents' acquaintance, cover up
your horns and tail, try and win me like a bourgeois. If that fails, there is always Egypt.
But quick, quick: I cannot bear scenes and delays and comments. Once we are married, let society
stare. With you to lean on I snap my fingers at the world. The obstacles are gigantic, but
you are also a giant, who with God's help smashes rocks to sand, that even my breath can blow
away. I must stab the beautiful dream of a noble youth, but even this--frightfully painful
for me as it is--I do for you. I say nothing of the disappointment to my parents, of the pain
of all I love and respect. I am writing to Holthoff, my father-confessor. We must have him
for us, with us, near us. God has destined us for each other."

A telegram replied: "Bravissimo! I am on my way to join you."

And to the Countess, fighting rheumatism at the waters of Wildbad in the Black Forest, he wrote:
"The rain has passed, the long fog has gone. The mountains stand out mighty and dazzling, peak
beyond peak, like the heights of a life. What a sunset! The Eiger seemed wrapped in a vapor
of burning gold. My sufferings are nearly all wiped out. I am joyous, full of life and love.
And I have also finished at last with that terrible correspondence for the Union. Seventy-six
pages of minute writing have I sent to Berlin yesterday and to-day, and I breathe again. In
my yesterday's letter I broke Helene to you. It is extraordinarily fortunate that on the verge
of forty I should be able to find a wife so beautiful, so sympathetic, who loves me so much,
and who, as you and I agreed was indispensable, is entirely absorbed in my personality. In
your last letter you throw cold water on my proposed journey to Hamburg; and perhaps you are
right in thinking the coup I planned not so great and critical as I have been imagining. But
how you misunderstand my motives when you write: 'Cannot you, till your health is re-established,
find contentment for a while in science, in friendship, in Nature?' You think politics the
breath of my nostrils. Ah, how little you are au fait with me! I desire nothing more ardently
than to be quite rid of all politics, and to devote myself to science, friendship, and Nature.
I am sick and tired of politics. Truly I would burn as passionately for them as any one, if
there were anything serious to be done, or if I had the power or saw the means, a means worthy
of me; for without supreme power nothing can be done. For child's play, however, I am too old
and too great. That is why I very reluctantly undertook the Presidentship. I only yielded to
you, and that is why it now weighs upon me terribly. If I were but rid of it, this were the
moment I should choose to go to Naples with you. But how to get rid of it? For events, I fear,
will develop slowly, so slowly, and my burning soul finds no interest in these children's maladies
and petty progressions. Politics means actual, immediate activity. Otherwise one can work just
as well for humanity by writing. I shall still try to exercise at Hamburg a pressure upon events.
But up to what point it will be effective I cannot say. Nor do I promise myself much from it.
Ah, could I but get out of it!

"Helene is a wonderful creature, the only personality I could wed. She looks forward to your
friendship. I know it. For I am a good observer of women without seeming to be. That dear enfant
du diable, as everybody calls her at Geneva, has a deep sympathy for you, because she is, as
Goethe puts it, an original nature. Only one fault--but gigantic. She has no Will. But if we
became husband and wife, that would cease to be a fault. I have enough Will for two, and she
would be the flute in the hands of the artist. But till then--"

The Countess showed herself a kind Cassandra. His haste, she replied, would ruin his cause.
He had to deal with Philistines. The father was a man of no small self-esteem--he had been
the honored tutor of Maximilian II., and was now in high favor at the Bavarian court, even
controlling university and artistic appointments. A Socialist would be especially distasteful
to him. Twenty years ago Varnhagen von Ense had heard him lecture on Communism--good-humoredly,
wittily, shrugging shoulders at these poor, fantastic fools who didn't understand that the
world was excellently arranged centuries before they were born. Helene herself, with her weak
will, would be unable to outface her family. Before approaching the parents, had he not better
wait the final developments of his law-case? If he had to leave Germany temporarily to escape
the imprisonment, would not that be a favorable opportunity for prosecuting his love-affairs
in Switzerland? And what a pity to throw up his milk-cure! "Enfin, I wish you success, mon
cher enfant, though I will only put complete trust in my own eyes. In feminine questions you
have neither reason nor judgment."

Lassalle's response was to enclose a pretty letter from Helene, pleading humbly for the Countess's
affection. Together let them nurse the sick eagle. She herself was but a child, and would lend
herself to any childish follies to drive the clouds from his brow. She would try to comprehend
his magnificent soul, his giant mind, and in happiness or in sorrow would remain faithful and
firm at his side.

The Countess knit her brow. Then Lassalle was already with this Helena in Berne.

XI

It was a week of delicious happiness, niched amid the eternal mountains, fused with skies and
waters.

With an accommodating chaperon who knew no German, the couple could do and say what they pleased.
Lassalle, throwing off the heavy burdens of prophet and politician, alternated between brilliant
lover and happy-hearted boy. It was almost a honeymoon. Now they were children with all the
overflowing endearments of plighted lovers. Now they were on the heights of intellect, talking
poetry and philosophy, and reading Lassalle's works; now they were discussing Balzac's Physiologie
du Mariage. Anon Lassalle was a large dog, gambolling before his capricious mistress. "Lie
down, sir," she cried once, as he was reading a poem to her. And with peals of Homeric laughter
Ferdinand declared she had found the only inoffensive way of silencing him. "If ever I displease
you in future, you have only to say, 'Lie down, sir!'" And he began barking joyously.

And in the glow of this happiness his sense of political defeat evaporated. He burgeoned, expanded,
flung back his head in the old, imperial way. "By God!" he said, marching up and down the room
feverishly, "you have chosen no mean destiny. Have you any idea of what Ferdinand Lassalle's
wife will be? Look at me!" He stood still. "Do I look a man to be content with the second rôle
in the State? Do you think I give the sleep of my nights, the marrow of my bones, the strength
of my lungs, to draw somebody else's chestnuts out of the fire? Do I look like a political
martyr? No! I wish to act, to fight, and also to enjoy the crown of victory, to place it on
your brow."

A vision of the roaring streets and floral arches of the Rhenish cities flashed past him. "Chief
of the People, President of the German Republic,--there's the only true sovereignty. That was
what kings were once--giants of brain and brawn. King--one who knows, one who can! Headship
is for the head. What is this mock dignity that stands on the lying breaths of winking courtiers?
What is this farcical, factitious glamour that will not bear the light of day? The Grace of
God? Ay, give me god-like manhood, and I will bend the knee. But to ask me to worship a stuffed
purple robe on a worm-eaten throne! 'Tis an insult to manhood and reason. Hereditary kingship!
When you can breed souls as you breed racehorses it will be time to consider that. Stand here
by my side before this mirror. Is not that a proud, a royal couple? Did not Nature fashion
these two creatures in a holiday mood of joy and intoxication? Vive la République and its Queen
with the golden locks!"

"Vive la République and its eagle King!" she cried, intoxicated, yet with more of dramatic
enjoyment than of serious conviction.

"Bravo! You believe in our star! Since I met you I see it shining clearer over the heights.
We mount, we mount, peak beyond peak. We have enemies enough now, thick as the serpents in
tropic forests. Well, let them soil with their impure slaver the hem of our garments. But how
they will crawl fangless when Ferdinand--the Elect of the People--makes his solemn entry into
Berlin. And at his side, drawn by six white horses, his blonde darling, changed into the first
woman of Germany." He, too, though to him the fancy was real enough for the moment, enjoyed
it with a certain artistic aloofness.

XII

In honor of the fiancés--for such they openly avowed themselves, Geneva and Helene's family
being sufficiently distant to be temporarily forgotten--the American Consul at Berne gave a
charming dinner. There was a gallant old Frenchman, a honey-tongued Italian, a pervasive air
of complimentary congratulation. Helene returned to her hotel, thrilling with pleasure and
happy auguries. The night was soft and warm. Before undressing she leaned out of the window
of her room on the ground floor, and gazed upon the eternal glaciers, sparkling like silver
under the full moon. Through every sense she drank in the mystery and perfume of the night,
till her spirit seemed at one with the stars and the mountains. Suddenly she felt two mighty
arms clasped about her. Lassalle stood outside. Her heart throbbed violently.

"Hush!" he said, "don't be frightened. I will stay outside here, good and quiet, till you are
tired and say, 'Lie down, sir!' Then I will go!"

"My gentle Romeo!" she whispered, and bent her fragrant lips to meet his--the divine kiss of
god and goddess in the divine night. "My Ferdinand!" she breathed. "If we should be parted
after all. I tremble to think of it. My father will never consent."

"He shall consent. And you don't even need his consent. You are of age."

"Then take me now, dear heart. I am yours--your creature, your thing. Fly away with me, my
beautiful eagle, to Paris, to Egypt, where you will. Let us be happy Bohemians. We do not need
the world. We have ourselves, and the moonlight, and the mountains."

She was maddening to-night, his enfant du diable. But he kept a last desperate grip upon his
common sense. What would his friends say if he involved Helene in the scandal of an elopement?
What would Holthoff say, what Baron Korff? Surely this was not the conduct that would commend
itself to the chivalry and nobility of Berlin! And besides, how could his political career
survive a new scandal? He was already sufficiently hampered by his old connection with the
Countess, and not even a public acquittal and twenty years had sufficed to lay that accusation
of instigating the stealing of a casket of papers from her husband's mistress, which was perhaps
the worst legacy of the great Hatzfeldt case. No, he must win his bride honorably: the sanctities
and dignities of wedlock were seductive to the Bohemian in love.

"We shall have ourselves and the world, too," he urged gently. "Let us enter our realm with
the six white horses, not in a coach with drawn blinds. Your father shall give you to me, I
tell you, in the eye of day. What, am I an advertisement canvasser to be shown the door? Shall
my darling not have as honorable nuptials as her father's wife. Shall the Elect of the People
confess that a petty diplomatist didn't consider him good enough for a son-in-law? Think how
Bismarck would chuckle. After all I have said to him!"

Her confidence came back. Yes, one might build one's house on the rock of such a Will! "What
have you said to him?"

He laughed softly. "I've let slip a secret, little girl."

"Tell me."

"Incredible! That baby with her little fingers,"--he seized them--"with her fairy paws, she
plunges boldly into my most precious secrets, into my heart's casket, picks out the costliest
jewel, and asks for it."

"Well, do you like him? Is he an intellectual spirit?"

"Hum! If he is, we are not. He is iron, and of iron we make steel, and of steel pretty weapons;
but one can make nothing but weapons. I prefer gold. Gold like my darling's hair"--he caressed
it--"like my own magic power over men. You shall see, darling, how your gold and mine will
triumph."

"But you also are always speaking of arms, of blood, of battles; and Revolutions are scarcely
forged without arms and iron."

"Child, child," he answered, drawing her golden locks to his lips, "why do you wish to learn
all in this beautiful starry night? The conquests of thousands of years, the results of profound
studies, you ask for as for toys. To speak of battles, to call to arms, is by no means the
same thing as to sabre one's fellow, one's brother, with icy heart and bloodstained hand. Don't
you understand, sly little thing, of what arms I speak, of the golden weapons of the spirit,
eloquence, the love of humanity, the effort to raise to manly dignity the poor, the unfortunate,
the workers. Above all, I mean--Will. These noble weapons, these truly golden weapons, I count
higher and more useful than the rusted swords of Mediævalism."

Her eyes filled with tears. She felt herself upborne on waves of religious emotion towards
those shining stars. The temptation was over.

"Good-night, my love," she said humbly.

He drew her face to his in passionate farewell, and seemed as if he would never let her go.
When her window closed he strode towards the glaciers.

An adventure next day came to show the conquered Helena that her spiritual giant was no less
king of men physically. At the American Consul's dinner an expedition on the Niessen had been
arranged. But as the party was returning at nightfall across the fields, and laughing over
Lassalle's sprightly anecdotes, suddenly a dozen diabolical gnomes burst upon them with savage
roars and incomprehensible inarticulate jabberings, and began striking at hazard with their
short, solid cudgels, almost ere the startled picnickers could recognize in these bestial creatures,
with their enormously swollen heads and horrible hanging goitres, the afflicted idiot peasants
of the valley. The gallant Frenchman and the honey-tongued Italian screamed with the women,
and made even less play with umbrellas and straps; but Lassalle fell like a thunderbolt with
his Robespierre stick upon the whole band of cretins, and reduced them to howls and bloodstained
tears. It was only then that Lassalle was able to extract from them that the party had trampled
over the hay in their fields, and that they demanded compensation. Being given money, they
departed, growling and waving their cudgels. When the excursionists looked at one another they
found themselves all in rags, and Lassalle's face disfigured by two heavy blows. Helene ran
to him with a cry.

"You are wounded, bruised!"

"No, only one of the towers of the Bastille," he said, ruefully surveying the stick; "the brutes
have dinted it."

"And there are people who call him coward because he won't fight duels," thought Helene adoringly.

XIII

The drama shifted to Geneva, where heroine preceded hero by a few hours, charged to be silent
till her parents had personally experienced Lassalle's fascinations. He had scarcely taken
possession of his room in the Pension Bovet when a maidservant brought in a letter from Helene,
and ere he had time to do more than break the envelope, Helene herself burst in.

"Take me away, take me away," she cried hysterically.

He flew to support her.

"What has happened?"

"I cannot bear it. I cannot fight them. Save me, my king, my master. Let us fly across the
frontier--to Paris." She clung to him wildly.

Sternness gathered on his brow.

"Then you have disobeyed me!" he said. "Why?"

"I have written you," she sobbed.

He laid her gently on the bed, and ran his eye through the long, hysteric letter.

Unhappy coincidence! At Helene's arrival, her whole family had met her joyously at the railway
station, overbrimming with the happy news that her little sister, Marguerite, had just been
proposed to by Count Kayserling.

Helene had thought this a heaven-sent opportunity of breaking her own happiness to her radiant
mother, foolishly forgetting that the Count Kayserling would be the last man in the world to
endure a Jew and a demagogue as a brother-in-law. Terrible scenes had followed--the mother's
tears, the father's thunders, the general family wail and supplication, sisters trembling for
their prospects, brothers anticipating the sneers of club-land. What! exchange Prince Janko
for a thief!

Cross-examined by Lassalle, Helene admitted her mother was not so furious as her father, and
had even, weeping on her bosom, promised to try and smooth the Baron down. But she knew that
was impossible--her father considered nothing but his egoistic plans. And so, when the dinner-bell
was sounding, informed with a mad courage by the thought of her hero's proximity, she had flown
to him.

Lassalle felt that the test-moment of his life had come, and the man of action must rise to
it. He scribbled three telegrams--one to his mother, one to his sister, Frau Friedland, and
one to the Countess, asking all to come at once.

"You must have a chaperon," he interjected. "And till one of the three arrives, who is there here?"

She sobbed out the address of Madame Rognon. Lassalle opened the door to hand over the telegrams,
and saw the woman who had brought Helene's letter lingering uneasily, and he had the unhappiest
yet not least characteristic inspiration of his life. "These to the telegraph office," he said
aloud, and in a whisper: "Tell the Baroness von Dönniges that we shall be at Madame Rognon's."

For, with lightning rapidity, his brain had worked out a subtle piece of heroic comedy. He
would restore Helene to her mother, he would play the grand seigneur, the spotless Bayard,
he, the Jew, the thief, the demagogue, the Don Juan; his chivalry would shame this little diplomatist.
In no case could they refuse him the girl, she was too hopelessly compromised. All the Pension
had seen her--the mother would be shrewd enough to understand that. She must allow the renunciation
to remain merely verbal, but the words would sound how magnificent!

The scene was duly played. The bewildered Helene, whom he left in the dark, confused by the
unexpected appearance of her mother, was thrown into the last stage of dazed distress by being
recklessly restored to the maternal bosom. He kissed her good-bye, and she vanished from his
sight for ever.

XIV

For he had reckoned without his Janko, always at hand to cover up a scandal. The Will he had
breathed into Helene had been exhausted in the one supreme effort of her life. Sucked up again
into the family egotism, kept for weeks under a régime of terror and intercepted letters, hurried
away from Geneva; chagrined and outraged, too, by her lover's incomprehensible repudiation
of her, which only success could have excused, and which therefore became more unpardonable
as day followed day without rescue from a giant, proved merely windbag; she fell back with
compunction into the tender keeping of the ever-waiting Janko. The one letter her father permitted
her to send formally announced her eternal love and devotion for her former fiancé. Profitless
to tell the story of how the stricken giant, raving in outer darkness, this Polyphemus who
had gouged out his own eye, this Hercules self-invested in the poisoned robe of Nessus, moved
heaven and earth to see her again. It was an earthquake, a tornado, a nightmare. He had frenzies
of tears, his nights were sleepless reviews of his folly in throwing her away, and vain phantasms
of her eyes and lips. He poured out torrents of telegrams and letters, in which cries of torture
mingled with minute legal instructions. The correspondence of the Working-Men's Union alone
was neglected. He pressed everybody and anybody into his feverish service--musicians, artists,
soldiers, antiquarians, aristocrats. Would not Wagner induce the King of Bavaria to speak to
von Dönniges? Would not the Catholic Bishop Ketteler help him?--he would become a Catholic.
And ever present an insane belief in the reality of her faithlessness, mockingly accompanied
by a terribly lucid recognition of the instability of character that made it certain. The "No"--her
first word to him at their first meeting--resounded in his ears, prophetically ominous. The
sunrise, hidden by rain and mist, added its symbolic gloom. But he felt her lips on his in
the marvellous moonlight; a thousand times she clung to him crying, "Take me away!" And now
she was to be another's. She refused even to see him. Incredible! Monstrous! If he could only
get an interview with her face to face. Then they would see if she was resisting him of her
own free will or under pressure illegal for an adult. It was impossible his will-power over
her should fail.

Helene evidently thought so too. By fair means and foul, by spies and lawyers and friendly
agents, Lassalle's frenzied energy had penetrated through every defence to the inmost entrenchment
where she sat cowering. He had exacted the father's consent to an interview. Only Helene's
own consent was wanting. His friend Colonel Rustow brought the sick Hercules the account of
her refusal--a refusal which made ridiculous his moving of mountains.

"But surely you owe Lassalle some satisfaction," he had protested.

"To what? To his wounded vanity?"

It was the last straw.

"Harlot!" cried Lassalle, and as in a volcanic jet, hurled her from his burning heart.

A terrible calm settled upon him. It was as if fire should become ice. Yes, he understood at
last what Destiny had always been trying to tell him--that love and happiness were not for
him. He was consecrate to great causes: His Will, entangled with that of others, grew feeble,
fruitless. Women were truly enfants du diable. He had been within an ace of abandoning his
historical mission. Now he would arise, strong, sublime: a mighty weapon forged by the gods,
and tempered by fire and tears.

Only, one thing must first be done. The past must be wiped off. He must recommence with a clean
sheet. True, he had always refused duels. But now he saw the fineness, the necessity of them.
In a world of chicanery and treachery the sword alone cut clean.

He sent a challenge to the father, a message of goodwill to the lover. But it was Janko who
took up the challenge.

The weapon chosen was the pistol.

Lassalle's friends begged him to practise.

"Useless! I know what is destined."

Never had he been so colossal, so assured. His nerves seemed to have regained their tone. The
night before the duel he slept like a tranquil child.

In the early morn, on the way to the field outside Geneva, he begged his second to arrange
the duel on the French side of the frontier, so that he might remain in Geneva and settle his
account with the father. At the word of command, "One!" Janko's shot rang out. Lassalle's was
not a second later, but he had already received his death-wound.

He lay three days, dying in terrible agony, relieved only by copious opium. Between the spasms,
surprise possessed his mind that his Will should have counted for nothing before the imperturbable
march of the universe. "There will never be Justice for the People," he thought bitterly. "I
was a dreamer. Heine was right. A mad world, my masters." But sometimes he had a gleam of suspicion
that it was he that had lacked sanity. His Will had become mere wilfulness. In his love as
in his crusade he had shut his eyes to the brute facts; had precipitated what could only be
coaxed. "I die by my own hand," he said. If he had only married Rosalie Zander, who still lived
on, loving him! These Russian and Bavarian minxes were neurotic, fickle, shifting as sand;
the daughters of Judæa were sane, cheerful, solid. Then he thought of his own sister married
to that vulgarian, Friedland. He saw her, a rosy-cheeked girl, sitting at the Passover table,
with its picturesque ritual. How happy were those far-off pious days! And then he felt a cold
wind, remembering how Riekchen had hidden her face to laugh at these mediæval mummeries, and
to spit out the bitter herbs, so meaningless to her.

O terrible tragi-comedy of life, O strange, tangled world, in which poor, petty man must walk,
tripped by endless coils--religion, race, sex, custom, wealth, poverty! World that from boyhood
he had seemed to see stretching so clearly before him, to be mapped out with lucid logic, to
be bestridden with triumphant foot by men become as gods, knowing good and evil.

Only one thing was left--to die unbroken.

He had his lawyer brought to his bedside, went through his last testament again, left money
for the Union, recommended it to the workers as their one sure path of salvation. Moses had
only been permitted to gaze upon the Promised Land, but the Chosen People--the Germans--should
yet luxuriate in its milk and honey.

A month after his meeting with Helene on the Righi--a month after his glad shout, "By all the
gods of Greece, 'tis she!"--he was a corpse, the magic voice silent for ever; while the woman
he had sought was to give herself to his slayer, and the movement he had all but abandoned
for her was to become a great power in the State, under the ever-growing glamour of his memory.

The Countess bent over the body. A strange, grim joy mingled with her rage and despair. None
of all these women had the right to share in her grief. He belonged to her--to her and the
People. Yes, she would bear the body of her cher enfant through the provinces of the Rhine--he
had been murdered by a cunning political plot, the People who loved him should rise and avenge
their martyred Messiah.

And suddenly she remembered with a fresh pang the one woman who had a right to share her grief,
nay, to call him--in no figurative sense--"enfant"; the wrinkled old Jewess, palsied and deaf
and peevish, who lived on in a world despoiled of his splendid fighting strength, of his superb
fore-visionings.

THE PRIMROSE SPHINX

I

In the choir of the old-fashioned church of Hughenden, that broods amid the beautiful peace
of English meadows, there stands, on the left hand of the aisle, a black high-backed stall
of polished oak, overhung by the picturesque insignia of the Order of the Garter.

In the pavement behind it gleams a square slab, dedicated by "his grateful sovereign and friend"
to her great Prime Minister, and heaped in the spring with primroses.

And on this white memorial is sculptured in bas-relief the profile of the head of a Semitic
Sphinx, round whose mute lips flickers in a faint sardonic smile the wisdom of the ages. His
head droops on his breast, but his coal-black inscrutable eyes are open.

It is the hour of his star.

He is just back from the Berlin Congress, bringing "Peace with Honor." The Continent has stood
a-tiptoe to see the wonderful English Earl pass and repass. He has been the lion of a congress
that included Bismarck. The laurels and the Oriental palm placed by his landlord on the hotel-balcony
have but faintly typified the feeling of Europe. His feverous reception in England, from Dover
pier onwards, has recalled an earlier, a more romantic world. Fathers have brought their little
ones to imprint upon their memories the mortal features of this immortal figure, who passes
through a rain of flowers to his throne in Downing Street. The London press, with scarce an
exception, is in the dust at his feet--with the proud English nobles and all that has ever
flouted or assailed him.

The sunshine comes floridly through the stained-glass windows, and lies upon the austere crucifix.

III

By what devious ways has he wandered hither--from that warm old Portuguese synagogue in Bevis
Marks, whence his father withdrew under the smart of a fine from "the gentlemen of the Mahamad?"

But hark! The parson--as paradoxically--is reading a Jewish psalm.
    The Lord shall send the rod of thy power out of Zion: be
        thou ruler in the midst of thine enemies.

The Earl remains impassive.

"Half Christendom worships a Jewess, and the other half a Jew."

Whom does he worship?

"Sensible men never tell."

IV

Yet in that facial mask I seem to read all the tale of the long years of desperate waiting,
only half sweetened by premature triumphs of pen and person; all the rancorous energies of
political strife.

And as I gaze, a sense of something shoddy oppresses me, of tinsel and glitter and flamboyance:
a feeling that here is no true greatness, no sphinx-like sublimity. A shadow of the world and
the flesh falls across the brooding figure, a Napoleonic vulgarity coarsens the features, there
is a Mephistophelian wrinkle in the corner of the lips.

I think of his books, of his grandiose style, gorgeous as his early waistcoats and gold chains,
the prose often made up of bad blank verse, leavings from his long coxcombical strain to be
a poet; of his false-sublime and his false-romantic, of his rococo personages, monotonously
magnificent; of his pseudo-Jewish stories, and his braggart assertions of blood, played off
against the insulting pride of the proudest aristocracy in the world, and combined with a politic
perseverance to be more English than the English; of his naïve delight in fine clothes and
fine dishes and fine company; of his nice conduct of a morning and evening cane; of his morbid
self-consciousness of his gifts and his genius; of his unscrupulous chase of personal success
and of Fame--that shadow which great souls cast, and little souls pursue as substance; of his
scrupulous personal rejection of Love--Love, the one touch of true romance in his novels--and
his pecuniary marriage for his career's sake, after the manner of his tribe; of his romanesque
conception of the British aristocracy, which he yet dominates, because he is not really rooted
in the social conceptions which give it its prestige, and so is able to manœuvre it artistically
from without, intellect detached from emotion: to play English politics like a game of chess,
moving proud peers like pawns, with especial skill in handling his Queen; his very imperturbability
under attack, only the mediæval Jew's self-mastery before the grosser-brained persecutor.

I think these things and the Sphinx yields up his secret--the open secret of the Ghetto parvenu.

V

But as I look again upon his strange Eastern face, so deep-lined, so haggard, something subtler
and finer calls to me from the ruins of its melancholy beauty.

Into this heavy English atmosphere he brings not only the shimmer of ideas and wit, but--a
Heine of action--the fantasy of personal adventure, and--when audacity has been crowned by
empery--of dramatic surprises of policy. A successful Lassalle, he flutters the stagnant castes
of aristocracy by the supremacy of the individual Will.

To a country that lumbers on from precedent to precedent, and owes its very constitution to
the pinch of practical exigencies, he brings the Jew's unifying sweep of idea. First, he is
the encourager of the Young England party, for, conceiving himself child of a race of aristocrats
whose mission is to civilize the world, he feels the duty of guidance to which these young
English squires and nobles are born. The bourgeois he hates--only the pomp of sovereignty and
the pathos of poverty move his soul; his lifelong dream is of a Tory democracy, wherein the
nobles shall make happy the People that is exploited by the middle classes. Product of a theocratic
state, where the rich and the poor are united in God, he is shocked by "the Two Nations" into
which, by the gradual break-up of the feudal world, this England is split. The cry of the Chartists
does not leave him cold. He is one in revolt with Byron and Shelley against a Philistine world.
And later, to a mighty empire that has grown fortuitously, piecemeal, by the individual struggles
of independent pioneers or isolated filibusters, he gives a unifying soul, a spirit, a mission.
He perceives with Heine that as Puritan Britain is already the heir of ancient Palestine, and
its State Church only the guardian of the Semitic principle, popularized, so is it by its moral
and physical energy, the destined executant of the ideals of Zion; that it is planting the
Law like a great shady tree in the tropic deserts and arid wastes of barbarism. That grandeur
and romance of their empire, of which the English of his day are only dimly aware, because
like their constitution it has evolved without a conscious principle, he, the outsider, sees.
He is caught by the fascination of its vastness, of its magnificent possibilities. And in very
deed he binds England closer to her colonies, and restores her dwindled prestige in the Parliament
of Nations. He even proclaims her an Asiatic power.

For his heart is always with his own people--its past glories, its persistent ubiquitous potency,
despite ubiquitous persecution. He sees himself the appointed scion of a Chosen Race, the only
race to which God has ever spoken, and perhaps the charm of acquired Cyprus is its propinquity
to Palestine, the only soil on which God has ever deigned to reveal Himself.

And, like his race, he has links with all the human panorama.

He is in touch with the humors and graces of European courts and cities, has rapport with the
rich-dyed, unchanging, double-dealing East, enjoys the picaresque life of the Spanish mountains:
he feels the tragedy of vanished Rome, the marble appeal of ancient Athens, the mystery of
the Pyramids, the futility of life; his books palpitate with world-problems.

And, as I think these things, his face is transfigured and he becomes--beneath all his dazzle
of deed--a Dreamer of the Ghetto.

VI

So think I. But what--as the country parson's sermon drones on--thinks the Sphinx?

Who shall tell?

DREAMERS IN CONGRESS

"By the rivers of Babylon, there we sat down; yea, we wept, when we remembered Zion." By the
river of Bâle we sit down, resolved to weep no more. Not the German Rhine, but the Rhine ere
it leaves the land of liberty; where, sunning itself in a glory of blue sky and white cloud,
and overbrooded by the eternal mountains; it swirls its fresh green waves and hurries its laden
rafts betwixt the quaint old houses and dreaming spires, and under the busy bridges of the
Golden Gate of Switzerland.

In the shady courtyard of the Town Hall are sundry frescoes testifying to the predominant impress
on the minds of its citizens of the life and thoughts of a little people that flourished between
two and three thousand years ago in the highlands of Asia Minor. But, amid these suggestive
illustrations of ancient Jewish history, the strangest surely is that of Moses with a Table
of the Law, on which are written the words: "Who brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out
of the house of bondage."

For here, after all this travail of the centuries, a very modern Moses--in the abstract-concrete
form of a Congress--is again meditating the deliverance of Israel from the house of bondage.

Not in the Town Hall, however, but in the Casino the Congress meets, and, where Swiss sweethearts
use to dance, are debated the tragic issues of an outcast nation. An oblong hall, of drab yellow,
with cane chairs neatly parted in the middle, and green-baized tables for reporters, and a
green-baized rostrum, and a green-baized platform, over which rise the heads and festal shirt-fronts
of the leaders.

A strangely assorted set of leaders, but all with that ink-mark on the brow which is as much
on the Continent the badge of action, as it is in England the symbol of sterility; all believing
more or less naïvely that the pen is mightier than the millionaire's gold.

Only one of them hitherto has really stirred the world with his pen-point--a prophet of the
modern, preaching "Woe, woe" by psycho-physiology; in himself a breezy, burly undegenerate,
with a great gray head marvellously crammed with facts and languages; now to prove himself
golden-hearted and golden-mouthed, an orator touching equally to tears or laughter. In striking
contrast with this quasi-Teutonic figure shows the leonine head, with its tossing black mane
and shoulders, of the Russian leader, Apollo turned Berserker, beautiful, overpowering, from
whose resplendent mouth roll in mountain thunder the barbarous Russian syllables.

And even as no two of the leaders are alike, so do the rank and file fail to resemble one another.
Writers and journalists, poets and novelists and merchants, professors and men of professions--types
that once sought to slough their Jewish skins, and mimic, on Darwinian principles, the colors
of the environment, but that now, with some tardy sense of futility or stir of pride, proclaim
their brotherhood in Zion--they are come from many places; from far lands and from near, from
uncouth, unknown villages of Bukowina and the Caucasus, and from the great European capitals;
thickliest from the pales of persecution, in rare units from the free realms of England and
America--a strange phantasmagoria of faces. A small, sallow Pole, with high cheek-bones; a
blond Hungarian, with a flaxen moustache; a brown, hatchet-faced Roumanian; a fresh-colored
Frenchman, with eye-glasses; a dark, Marrano-descended Dutchman; a chubby German; a fiery-eyed
Russian, tugging at his own hair with excitement, perhaps in prescience of the prison awaiting
his return; a dusky Egyptian, with the close-cropped, curly black hair, and all but the nose
of a negro; a yellow-bearded Swede; a courtly Viennese lawyer; a German student, with proud
duel-slashes across his cheek; a Viennese student, first fighter in the University, with a
colored band across his shirt-front; a dandy, smelling of the best St. Petersburg circles;
and one solitary caftan-Jew, with ear-locks and skull-cap, wafting into the nineteenth century
the cabalistic mysticism of the Carpathian Messiah.

Who speaks of the Jewish type? One can only say negatively that these faces are not Christian.
Is it the stamp of a longer, more complex heredity? Is it the brand of suffering? Certainly
a stern Congress, the speeches little lightened by humor, the atmosphere of historic tragedy
too overbrooding for intellectual dalliance. Even the presence of the gayer sex--for there
are a few ladies among the delegates, and more peep down from the crowded spectators' gallery
that runs sideways along the hall--only makes a few shots of visual brightness in the sober
scene. Seriousness is stamped everywhere; on the broad-bulging temples of the Russian oculist,
on the egg-shaped skull and lank white hair of the Heidelberg professor, on the open countenance
of the Hungarian architect, on the weak, narrow lineaments of the neurotic Hebrew poet; it
gives dignity to red hair and freckles, tones down the grossness of too-fleshy cheeks, and
lends an added beauty to finely-cut features.

Superficially, then, they have little in common, and if almost all speak German--the language
of the Congress--it is only because they are all masters of three or four tongues. Yet some
subtle instinct links them each to each; presage, perhaps, of some brotherhood of mankind,
of which ingathered Israel--or even ubiquitous Israel--may present the type.

Through the closed red-curtained windows comes ever and anon the sharp ting of the bell of
an electric car, and the President, anxiously steering the course of debate through difficult
international cross-roads, rings his bell almost as frequently.

A majestic Oriental figure, the President's--not so tall as it appears when he draws himself
up and stands dominating the assembly with eyes that brood and glow--you would say one of the
Assyrian Kings, whose sculptured heads adorn our Museums, the very profile of Tiglath-Pileser.
In sooth, the beautiful sombre face of a kingly dreamer, but of a Jewish dreamer who faces
the fact that flowers are grown in dung. A Shelley "beats in the air his luminous wings in
vain"; our Jewish dreamer dreams along the lines of life; his dream but discounts the future,
his prophecy is merely fore-speaking, his vision prevision. He talks agriculture, viticulture,
subvention of the Ottoman Empire, both by direct tribute and indirect enrichment; stocks and
shares, railroads, internal and to India; natural development under expansion--all the jargon
of our iron age. Let not his movement be confounded with those petty projects for helping Jewish
agriculturists into Palestine. What! Improve the Sultan's land without any political equivalent
guaranteed in advance! Difficulty about the holy places of Christianity and Islam? Pooh! extra-territorial.

A practised publicist, a trained lawyer, a not unsuccessful comedy writer, converted to racial
self-consciousness by the "Hep, Hep" of Vienna, and hurried into unforeseen action by his own
paper-scheme of a Jewish State, he has, perhaps, at last--and not unreluctantly--found himself
as a leader of men.

In a Congress of impassioned rhetoricians he remains serene, moderate; his voice is for the
more part subdued; in its most emotional abandonments there is a dry undertone, almost harsh.
He quells disorder with a look, with a word, with a sharp touch of the bell. The cloven hoof
of the Socialist peeps out from a little group. At once "The Congress shall be captured by
no party!" And the Congress is in roars of satisfaction.

'Tis the happy faculty of all idealists to overlook the visible--the price they pay for seeing
the unseen. Even our open-eyed Jewish idealist has been blest with ignorance of the actual.
But, in his very ignorance of the people he would lead and the country he would lead them to,
lies his strength, just as in his admission that his Zionist fervor is only that second-rate
species produced by local anti-Semitism, lies a powerful answer to the dangerous libel of local
unpatriotism. Of the real political and agricultural conditions of Palestine he knows only
by hearsay. Of Jews he knows still less. Not for him the paralyzing sense of the humors of
his race, the petty feud of Dutchman and Pole, the mutual superiorities of Sephardi and Ashkenazi,
the grotesque incompatibility of Western and Eastern Jew, the cynicism and snobbery of the
prosperous, the materialism of the uneducated adventurers in unexploited regions. He stands
so high and aloof that all specific colorings and markings are blurred for him into the common
brotherhood, and, if he is cynic enough to suspect them, he is philosopher enough to recognize
that all nations are compact of incongruites, vitalized by warring elements. Nor has he any
sympathetic perception of the mystic religious hopes of generations of zealots, of the great
swirling spiritual currents of Ghetto life. But in a national movement--which appears at first
sight hopeless, because it lacks the great magnetizer, religion--lies a chance denied to one
who should boldly proclaim himself the evangel of a modern Judaism, the last of the Prophets.
Political Zionism alone can transcend and unite: any religious formula would disturb and dissever.
Along this line may all travel to Jerusalem. And, as the locomotive from Jaffa draws all alike
to the sacred city, and leaves them there to their several matters, so may the pious concern
themselves not at all with the religion of the engineer.

Not this the visionary figure created by the tear-dimmed yearning of the Ghetto; no second
Sabbataï Zevi, master of celestial secrets, divine reincarnation, come with signs and wonders
to lead back Israel to the Promised Land. Still less the prophet prefigured by Christian visionaries,
some of whom, fevered nevertheless, press upon the Congress itself complex collations of texts,
or little cards with the sign of the cross. Palestine, indeed, but an afterthought: an aspiration
of unsuspected strength, to be utilized--like all human forces--by the maker of history. States
are the expression of souls; in any land the Jewish soul could express itself in characteristic
institutions, could shake off the long oppression of the ages, and renew its youth in touch
with the soil. Yet since there is this longing for Palestine, let us make capital of it--capital
that will return its safe percentage. A rush to Palestine will mean all that seething medley
of human wants and activities out of which profits are snatched by the shrewd--gold-rush and
God-rush, they are both one in their economic working. May not the Jews themselves take shares
in so promising a project? May not even their great bankers put their names to such a prospectus?
The shareholders incur no liability beyond the extent of their shares; there shall be no call
upon them to come to Palestine--let them remain in their snug nests; the Jewish Company, Limited,
seeks a home only for the desolate dove that finds no rest for the sole of her feet.

And yet beneath all this statesmanlike prose, touched with the special dryness of the jurist,
lurk the romance of the poet and the purposeful vagueness of the modern evolutionist; the fantasy
of the Hungarian, the dramatic self-consciousness of the literary artist, the heart of the Jew.

