#58. Analytic and Synthetic Method.#--A lesson, like a jack-knife, is made up of a number of
parts. We may begin the recitation by presenting first the object or lesson as a whole and
follow with a study of the parts; this is the analytic method. Or we may begin the recitation
by presenting first the parts, one at a time, and follow with a study of the object as a whole.
This is the synthetic method in teaching. These two general methods are usually combined in
a complete lesson. That is to say, we usually consider first the whole thought, then analyze
it into its several parts, and when each part is understood, we combine by synthesis the parts
into the general thought. If, for example, we begin by citing the golden text, and then analyze
the lesson to find the parts that illustrate the meaning in the golden text, and finally combine
these parts into a fuller understanding of the golden text, the process is analytico-synthetic.
The purpose of this thought exercise is to enlarge the learner's comprehension of the general
truth in the lesson. In the earlier years teaching should be largely synthetic; in later years,
analytic. A study of the growth of the powers of the soul will show why this is so.

#59. Inductive and Deductive Method.#--When once the mind is trained to analyze fairly well
it is possible to use another set of general methods. In reasoning we may begin with particular
facts, with simple sensations, with the individual notions based upon concrete experience,
and rise step by step to a general law. If we pursue this plan in the recitation, we use the
inductive method in teaching. If we pursue the opposite order, beginning with some general
law or principle and proceed by reasoning to special or particular facts, we use the deductive
method in teaching. The parable of the sower is a good example of inductive teaching. The seventh
chapter of Matthew contains a number of excellent examples of deductive teaching. Note carefully
the method by which Jesus makes plain the words, "Beware of false prophets." These general
methods are followed always in one order or another by every good teacher.

#60.# The recitation also affords opportunity for the exercise of special methods. We may or
we may not ask questions. We may or we may not assign topics, we may or we may not draw pictures
on a blackboard. We may or we may not ask pupils to consult the text of the lesson in reciting
the same. These facts suggest methods that the wise teacher will consider carefully.

#61. Questioning.#--If the teacher asks and requires the pupils to answer a series of questions
he is using the question method. It is a good method because it compels the pupils to think
and to give expression in proper language to their thoughts. It is vastly better than telling,
for telling things to pupils is not teaching, since it fails to cause the pupil's mind to act
in any creative way. It is a much abused method because many questions that an unwise teacher
asks do not lead by synthesis to a common general truth or law. It is to be noted that the
simplest form of questioning seeks only to obtain in answer a statement of fact, as when one
asks how many miles it is from Jerusalem to Jericho, or who betrayed Jesus, or any similar
question that calls for a statement of fact. A better question is one that sets all the currents
of thought aflow, that causes one to stop, think, weigh, ponder, deliberate, before framing
an answer. A careful study of Jesus' method of asking questions is of the utmost value in mastering
the fine art of teaching by the question method. In Luke 9 Jesus asks the question, "Who do
the multitudes say that I am?" After the disciples had reported all the guesses of the people,
he asked, "But who say ye that I am?" This question went to the heart of the subject of his
identity. It forced from Peter a great declaration. Wise questioning always touches the very
center of discussion and crystallizes thought.

#62.# For more advanced classes it is a good plan to assign in advance certain subjects to
be recited by the pupil in the recitation. When this is done, the teacher uses the topical
method. It requires a maximum of effort and should not be used with young pupils. It is an
excellent method in the Bible classes.

#63. Illustrations.#--If the teacher uses objects, pictures, or drawings to make meaningful
his language in teaching, he is using the illustrated method. This is especially valuable in
the primary grades. The one necessary caution is that the objects, pictures, or drawings shall
be wisely selected, and that in their use special care be taken that the interest of the pupils
is focused upon the thought or fact to be taught and not upon the illustration.

#64.# If the teacher allows the pupils to consult the text while reciting, his method is likely
to produce little permanent good. To fix the lesson in memory, to lay aside all books, to face
the anxious and earnest teacher, is to secure the best results. Of course, there are times
when the text is to be studied and when it is necessary to refer to the printed lesson, but
a wise teacher will remember that when soul looks into soul the greatest possible good comes
from teaching.

Test Questions

1. What is meant by a teaching method?

2. What is meant by the analytic method?

3. The synthetic method?

4. What is meant by the inductive method?

5. The deductive method?

6. Why is the question method a good one?

7. Why is mere telling not teaching?

8. What kind of question is better than that which merely draws out a fact?

9. What is the topical method, and with what pupils should it be used?

10. What is the gain in using illustrations? What the danger?

11. Should the lesson text be consulted by the pupil when reciting? Why?

Lesson 8

What the Concrete Means in Teaching

#65. Value of the Concrete.#--The world is made up of concrete things; that is, things which
can be recognized by the senses. The first impressions the soul gets of this world are concrete.
We call them individual or perceptual notions. The soul compares, classifies, generalizes these
concrete notions into general or conceptual notions. These thought products are abstract. But
all knowledge begins in these individual notions and hence all first presentations of a new
lesson or a new object of thought must be in the concrete. The richer and more varied the concrete
data, the more valuable is the mental result in abstract thought. When an abstract notion is
presented to a class it is of no educational value unless it can be referred back in the mind
of each pupil to some concrete experience in his own past. The teacher, knowing this, will
always aim to interpret general truths, which are abstract, into terms of experience, which
are concrete. To a people familiar with Palestine and the habits of the hart this language
at once made vividly real, in a concrete image, the great longing the pure soul has for its
Creator.

#66.# All the tentacles of the soul seem to find in the concrete thing great sources of nourishment.
Note the crowds that throng the zoölogical gardens, the flower expositions, the picture galleries,
the museums of one sort or another, to see the potency of the concrete as a great teaching
power. Explore a boy's pocket to learn what the concrete is worth. Why all these "scraps,"
broken glass, rusty nails, old knives, buttons, peculiar pebbles, colored strings, parts of
a watch or clock, odd sticks, bits of chewing gum, ends of pencils, broken buckles, speckled
beans, colored papers, bits of fur, and other things that he treasures? Because in a most potential
way they are nutrition to his yearning soul. One will never fathom the real depths of the concrete
as teaching data until he can appreciate why the son of a President of the United States gladly
traded rare exotic flowers from the White House conservatory for the discarded paper caps of
common milk bottles.

#67.# The trouble we all experience is to discover just what concrete thing the general statement
figures in the soul of the child. When our pupils read

  "Up from the meadows rich with corn,
  Clear in the cool September morn,"

what does it mean to them? Instance a poor child whose life is pent within the narrow walls
of a city tenement, one who has never seen the park, much less the great, grand farms of the
country; what can even this simple language of Whittier's figure to that child? Do you not
see that first of all the needed thing in teaching is to bring new thoughts into terms of old
thoughts, to interpret the new by the old, to translate all abstract truth into terms of conduct
and into terms of real concrete experience. If then the pupil's personal experience is meager,
how very difficult it is to teach him, and how very important it is that we should be wise
enough to supply the concrete data necessary to make meaningful our teaching.

#68. Tools for the Teacher.#--The agencies at the teacher's disposal are objects, pictures,
drawing, and stories. These demand extended study. Do you have a collection of objects and
of pictures for teaching purposes? These are your tools. Be sure you carry a goodly store of
them. Select them with care and use them with caution. If you cannot draw beautiful pictures,
do not worry. But be sure you can, with a few strokes of the crayon, make concrete the thought
you wish to emphasize. This power is of immeasurable value and the training of every teacher
should include lessons in simple graphic illustration.

#69. Stories.#--But above all else, as equipment to teach, can you tell a story? The story
is an abstract truth dressed in concrete garments. When Jesus was asked to define the word
neighbor he might have answered in some such definition as may be found in any dictionary.
He was too wise a teacher to do that. He immediately translated the meaning of neighbor into
the concrete story of the good Samaritan and gave us an example of the loftiest teaching power
the world has ever known. Every parable is an example of great skill in teaching the abstract
by means of the concrete. Go over the series and note in how many ways the Kingdom of heaven
is concreted into terms of the common experience of the people Jesus taught.

#70.# A good story, well told, at once attracts marked attention. The pupil unconsciously turns
to a concrete incident and from that obtains the richest nutrition for his spirit. But the
story must be well told. It must contain abundant elements of specific detail and must be packed
with incidents that thrill with action. The old Mother Goose rhymes are excellent examples
of stories full of action, and, as a result, of interest. The child personifies all things,
that he may find in them the elements of life, of action, of things in the process of doing.
If you will spend an hour with a boy who is riding a stick that is to him a horse, or a girl
who is playing with a rag-doll, you will learn the method and value of action in the concrete
materials of instruction.

#71. Rhyme and Song.#--If to the story is added the attractive appeal of rhythm, rhyme, and
song the concrete materials of teaching become almost ideal. It is a good thing to conclude
a well-told story with a short, simple poem and a song, both of which should relate to the
same truth the story sets forth in the concrete. Through story, rhyme, and song the growing
soul climbs most surely and securely to the lofty and illuminating vistas of God's universal
laws. Maxims, precepts, proverbs, mottoes, laws, become meaningful and potential only when
the soul moulds these mass motives of guidance from the plastic and suggestive data of a rich
and varied contact with concrete experiences and things. "I am the vine," "I am the good shepherd,"
"I am the way," contain the very essence of all great method in the art of building a soul
for the Kingdom of God and of service.

Test Questions

1. Give an illustration of a "concrete notion"?

2. What may be learned by the study of a boy's pocket?

3. By what means should we bring new thoughts to the pupil?

4. What are four tools at the teacher's disposal?

5. What constitutes a "good story"?

6. What appeal may well be added to the story?

Lesson 9

What Instruction, Drill, and Examination Can Do

#72.# The two processes at work in every good recitation are #teaching and learning#. The first
of these processes is the work of the teacher; the latter is the work of the pupil. Learning
includes study proper and practise in the use of knowledge learned. The learning process should,
of course, be directed by the teacher.

#73. Teaching#, the work of the teacher, includes three distinct elements or parts: instruction,
drill, examination. These may at times be supplemented by a fourth teaching process of considerable
importance, review. Every good class exercise is made up of these elements. In certain cases
the amount of time devoted to one or to the other of these varies greatly. No fixed law can
be set. The judgment of the teacher, the condition of the class, the immediate purpose of the
particular lesson, combine to make the relative value of these elements vary from one recitation
to another. We can, however, study the purpose or function of each and arrive at some fairly
adequate guidance.

#74. Instruction# is the process through which the teacher aims to assist the pupil in the
acquisition of knowledge or power, or both. It may take the form of written or of oral instruction.
Written instruction has to do with the mastery of the printed page. To know how to obtain knowledge
from the printed page is an important end of instruction. "Understandest thou what thou readest?"
is a question that goes to the heart of good written instruction. Oral instruction is the act
of the living teacher in stimulating the pupil to know. It has three phases--objective, indirect,
and direct.

#75.# Objective instruction is the presentation to the eye or other sense of the pupil, by
means of objects or pictures, some concrete thing which will aid the pupil to gain clear knowledge.
We have already considered the value of this form of concrete instruction.

#76.# Indirect instruction is the process of recalling, through memory, past objective experiences
and causing the mind to discern their likeness or unlikeness, their relations one to another,
and to express a conclusion that the teacher does not first announce. In indirect instruction
the learner is led to express his own past knowledge and, by comparing one fact with another,
to arrive for himself at new knowledge. This is a most difficult but a most valuable type of
instruction. It makes the pupil an explorer after truth and it should result in making him
a discoverer of truth. The joy of original discovery possesses the soul of the successful pupil,
who is taught by this indirect or suggestion method of instruction.

#77.# Direct instruction is the communication of facts by the teacher through oral language
to the pupil. The pupil in this type of learning follows the statements of the teacher and
sees for himself the truth of the facts presented and the conclusion reached. The danger of
direct teaching lies in the fact that the teacher may fail to arouse in the pupil a current
of thought corresponding to his own. In this case there is no resulting knowledge in the soul
of the learner; and, instead, there is likely to be confusion or disorder in the class. This
is a common phenomenon in classes that are so unfortunate as to have poor teachers. The law
underlying all oral teaching is as follows: Do not tell the pupil directly what he may be reasonably
expected to observe or discern for himself.

#78. Drill# is the process through which the teacher aims to assist the pupil in the acquisition
of power and skill. The new truth, when first apprehended by the pupil, must be made so familiar
to the learner that he can promptly and easily recall the new truth or knowledge. Drill is
the agency that accomplishes this result. Note how often a boy or girl repeats some new sentence
or word or game in order to fix its easy recall. Many teachers think repetition deadens interest.
But without repetition Comenius rightly declares we do not know solidly. Repetition is nature's
way of developing strength. It is of prime importance that every new truth be drilled until
it is as familiar to the learner as old knowledge. Then it becomes easy of recall and ready
for use. The wise teacher will avoid the abuse of the drill by so varying the exercise as to
secure a maximum of interest, for interest is the basis of pleasure, and the soul does not
easily retain knowledge that is not pleasurable.

#79. Examination# is the process through which the teacher aims to test the result of instruction
and learning. Its value is twofold: it adds to the learner's knowledge by the preparation he
makes for the examination, and it gives the teacher a means of measuring the results obtained
through instruction and drill. If the examination tests only knowledge gained by direct teaching,
it is of little value. If, on the contrary, the questions are so phrased as to cause the pupil
to think his way out of things known into some newer and higher order of knowledge, it is a
valuable exercise. Usually before examinations are given the teacher and pupils join in a review.

#80.# The #review# is an invaluable teaching agency when it results in such a reorganization
of unrelated or partly related facts of knowledge as to give the pupil a clearer and surer
grasp upon the relative value of the facts previously acquired. A drill fixes a given fact
more securely or solidly in the soul; a review organizes these drilled facts into new systems
and wider classifications. It is seeing the old once more, but seeing it from a new point of
vantage; just as a man climbing a tower with windows at stated points sees in each case all
that he saw before, but sees it in a new setting, sees it as part of a larger scene, and sees
it finally as a part of a mighty whole. Wisely conducted, the review establishes proportion
in the knowledge set in the soul and leads finally and directly to the fact that all truth
is at last one truth; all life at last one life; all parts at last one great infinite unity,
whose name is God.

Test Questions

1. What two processes are at work in every good recitation?

2. What four elements does teaching include?

3. What are the three phases of oral instruction?

4. Define each of these three phases.

5. What law underlies all oral teaching?

6. What is meant by drill?

7. Define examination. What is its twofold value?

8. When is a review valuable?

Lesson 10

What Will-training Leads To

#81.# The soul by #thinking, feeling, and willing# completes its round of activities. It is
not a three-parted power, each part doing one and only one of these things; but it is a single
power, capable of doing in turn all these things. The soul thinking is at work in an intellectual
process. The soul feeling is at work in an emotional process. The soul willing is at work in
a volitional process. These three processes are so inter-related that it is not easy to separate
them at any given time, and yet a bit of reflection upon how the soul does operate will make
fairly clear these distinct processes. A child that has not been made unnatural by arbitrary
training always follows its emotions and its thoughts by action. The inference from this is
significant. The soul untrammeled always translates thought and feeling into action. This is
only another way of saying that all intellectual and emotional products are under the direction
of the will. The will is the power of the soul that resolves to do, that causes us to act.
The will uses thought and feeling in much the same way that a sailor uses compass and rudder
to guide a vessel in the right course.

#82. The First Step, Obedience.#--At the beginning the feeling and thought elements are so
numerous and so complex that the will is unable rightly to organize all this data into guidance.
Hence the child must be guided by a will that has, through experience, acquired this power.
The will of the parent and of the teacher is at the outset the effective guide, and the one
necessity for the welfare of the child is obedience. Gradually the child finds his way through
the maze of things his intellect and his sensibilities have retained, and then he becomes self-directive.
His own will has asserted itself. He is now able and should be free to direct his own actions.
When he does this his difficulties will not disappear. At times, he will find his will at a
loss to give the guidance he knows he should have. Then, by all means, it is important that
he should willingly surrender his finite will to the infinite will, his imperfect guidance
to the perfect guidance; and he shall thus find his complete freedom of action in full surrender
to the will of Almighty God.

#83.# In this first stage, when parent and teacher are motive and will to him, the child needs
to be guided with the utmost care. There must be reasonableness in the guidance. Caprice, anger,
impatience, arbitrariness, and severity are the methods of weaklings and cowards. From all
such the child should be freed. Consistency, kindness, patience, reasonableness, and moderation
are the methods of strong, successful teachers. If you utter a command, see to it that the
child obeys. Nothing is quite so deadly in the realm of the will as the fact that the pupil
knows that his teacher threatens, commands, talks--but never acts. If you really do not intend
to enforce obedience, do not utter the command. If you do not intend to compel obedience, do
not assume the rôle of guide and teacher. How many children come into caprice instead of regulated
conduct because they have from infancy lived in a realm of caprice, of confusion, and of disorder;
a realm that moved by no law and hence set no law of guidance in the soul of the child.

#84. The Aim of Teaching is Right Living.#--We err when we assume that intellectual endeavor
will inevitably lead to right conduct. Nothing is more obvious than the fact that our conduct
is far below the plane of our thought. We know vastly better than we do the things that are
right and true. Nor do we quite understand the function of good teaching if we neglect to cultivate
the feeling powers of the soul. It is my conviction that we act more nearly in harmony with
our feelings than our thoughts. If, then, conduct, right action, or character is the end of
all true teaching; if, as Jesus taught, it is not what we know, nor yet what we feel, but what
we do, that makes life worth while, it is of the utmost importance that we should so train
the feeling life as well as the thought life as to prepossess the soul to right conduct. But
the feelings are intensely concrete. Whence arises again the value of concrete teaching as
a method in will training.

#85. Self-control.#--Aim to bring the pupil speedily into the exercise of his own will, into
self-regulated conduct. Nothing will so surely negative good instruction as to deny to the
pupil the freedom to exercise his own will as soon as that will has become sufficiently powerful
and reasonable to be an adequate agency to direct the pupil's conduct. Many teachers and parents
insist upon guiding the pupil long after he is capable of self-direction. Here, of course,
is the critical moment in the pupil's life, and only the most careful study of the pupil and
constant prayer for Divine assistance will insure the wisest procedure. When a boy has acquired
self-control it is always a mistake to treat him as you would a small child. His self-respect
is involved in his desire to do things in the way his own will determines. To ignore this fact
is to predispose the boy to rebellion against his teacher; and perhaps against all constituted
authority--human and divine.

#86. Teach What to do, Rather than What not to do.#--Above all, do not build a negative code
in the soul of a child. It is not what he is restrained from doing, but what he is constantly
encouraged to do that makes for right will training. The great power of Jesus as a teacher
lies in his steadfast ability to teach the world what to do, how to act, right conduct in the
midst of complex conditions. A negative code stops all endeavor, a positive code sets the soul
aglow with the consciousness of things done, of processes initiated and completed, of struggles
with wrong successfully ended, of progress from weakness to strength, from human error to Divine
truth.

#87.# The end of all endeavor is to do the will of God, and the goal of all teaching is to
equip a human soul to live in joyous accord with the infinite wisdom. "Ye shall know the truth,
and the truth shall make you free."

Test Questions

1. In what three ways does the soul round out its activities?

2. What is meant by the will?

3. What should be the effective guide for the child at first?

4. Name five elements that characterize the methods of strong teachers.

5. Why are some children capricious rather than obedient?

6. What is the aim of teaching?

7. What mistake will most surely negative good instruction?

8. What is Jesus' great power as a teacher?

9. What is the goal of all teaching?

Text Questions for Review

Lessons 6 to 10

1. What is meant by a law of the soul?

2. What is the first law as to the subject matter of teaching?

3. What is the earliest power that becomes educationally active?

4. What is meant by the inductive method?

5. Why is mere telling not teaching?

6. What is the gain, and what the danger, in using illustrations?

7. Illustrate what is meant by a concrete notion.

8. What are four tools at the teacher's disposal?

9. What constitutes a good story?

10. What two processes are at work in every good recitation?

11. What are the three phases of oral instruction?

12. When is a review valuable?

13. What is meant by the will?

14. Name five elements that characterize good teaching?

15. What is Jesus' great power as a teacher?

NOTE.--This entire subject has been more fully discussed by Dr. Brumbaugh in his book "The
Making of a Teacher."

THE SCHOOL

MARION LAWRANCE

  LESSON                                          PAGE
   1. The Sunday-school                            219
   2. The Sunday-school Equipped                   224
   3. The Sunday-school Organized                  228
   4. The Sunday-school Organized (concluded)      232
   5. The Sunday-school in Session                 236
   6. The Sunday-school Teacher                    240
   7. The Workers' Meeting                         244
   8. Sunday-school Finance                        248
   9. The Sunday-school and Missions               251
  10. It is a church service. All the members of the church
should be connected with it. It should be under the care and control
of the church. Its purpose is to present the Word of God, by the hand
of competent living teachers, to every man, woman and child, for the
purpose of leading them to Christ, developing their Christian
characters, and training them for service.

#2. The Earliest Schools.#[A]--Schools for the study of God's Word seem to have existed as
far back as the time of Abraham. In Moses' day, schools were maintained for the religious training
of the young. These schools were numerous also in Ezra's time. Jesus no doubt attended such
a school in his boyhood days. The schools of his time resembled the modern Sunday-school in
some of their methods. There were elementary schools for children, and senior schools for both
children and adults. These latter schools were connected with the synagogue. It was through
these schools, chiefly, that the Christian church was extended and built up.

#3. The Raikes Movement.#[A]--The first seventeen centuries of the Christian era witnessed,
for the most part, a general decline in the church and in Christian activity. During all this
period, the church's life increased or waned in proportion as it attended to or neglected the
religious instruction of the young. The seventeenth century, and much of the eighteenth century
were dark days for the church. It was toward the close of this period that God saw fit to connect
the name of Robert Raikes with the Sunday-school movement of the world. While he was probably
not the founder of the first Sunday-school, his name is nevertheless inseparably connected
with the beginnings of the modern Sunday-school. In the city of Gloucester, England, July,
1780, this man--the editor and proprietor of the Gloucester Journal--started his first Sunday-school,
in the kitchen of a dwelling-house. This room was eleven feet long, eight feet wide, six and
a half feet high. "The children were to come soon after ten in the morning and stay till twelve.
They were to go home and stay till one, and after reading a lesson, they were to be conducted
to church. After church, they were to be employed in repeating the catechism till half past
five, and then to be dismissed with an injunction to go home without making a noise; and by
no means to play in the street." Four women were employed as teachers in this school, at a
shilling a day. The early Raikes schools were not connected with the church in any way.

    [A] The statements in these paragraphs are taken in
    substance from "YALE LECTURES ON THE SUNDAY SCHOOL"
    (Trumbull).

#4. Sunday-school Extension.#--Sunday-schools soon became very popular, and spread over Great
Britain and into Europe. Sunday-schools are known to have existed in the United States as early
as 1786, and probably much earlier than that (even in 1674). They found congenial soil in the
Western Hemisphere, and multiplied rapidly. There are now more than a quarter of a million
Sunday-schools in the world, enrolling more than twenty-five millions of people. More than
one-half of this vast army is in North America.

#5. The Sunday School Union of London.#--This organization was effected in 1803 in Surrey Chapel,
London, and is the oldest expression of organized Sunday-school work. It is local only in name.
Its auxiliaries are to be found in all parts of the United Kingdom, Continental Europe and
the various dependencies of Great Britain. It holds valuable properties in London, conducts
an extensive printing establishment, and maintains a large corps of workers as secretaries,
colporteurs, etc., not only in Great Britain but on the Continent, in India and elsewhere.

#6. The American Sunday School Union.#--The earliest Sunday-school organizations in North America
were a Sunday School Union in New York City in 1816, another in Boston the same year, and still
another in Philadelphia in 1817. These were combined in 1824 into a national society known
as The American Sunday School Union. This society, through its large corps of missionaries,
plants new Sunday-schools, especially on the frontier. It conducts a large publishing establishment
at its headquarters in Philadelphia, and has done and is doing a great work.

#7. The National Sunday School Convention.#--The first national interdenominational convention
in the United States was held in the city of New York in 1832. Delegates were present from
fourteen states and four territories. A second convention was held in the city of Philadelphia,
the following year, 1833. Not until 1859 was the third convention held, and this one also in
the city of Philadelphia. In 1869, in Newark, N. J., may be said to have begun the present
series of great conventions in our country, for they have been held triennially from that time
until the present. The fourth and last strictly national convention was held in the city of
Indianapolis in 1872. Here the International System of Uniform Lessons had its birth. The International
Lessons went into use January, 1873. They are selected by a committee appointed by the International
Convention, co-operating with a similar committee appointed by the Sunday School Union of London.
It was decided that the next convention should be international in character, and include the
Dominion of Canada.

#8. International Sunday School Movement.#--International conventions have been held triennially
since 1875.

The International Sunday School Association administers its affairs through an Executive Committee
of nearly one hundred men, representing every state, province, territory and country in and
belonging to North America. In its main Association, and through its auxiliaries, it employs
a large number of Sunday-school workers in its various departments. It is supported by the
voluntary offerings of Sunday-schools and individuals. Under its auspices are held annually
about sixteen thousand Sunday-school conventions, the purpose of which is to give information,
stimulation, and education along all lines of Sunday-school work.

#9. Auxiliary Associations.#--The various states, provinces, territories and countries of North
America maintain associations auxiliary to the International Sunday School Association. The
oldest existing organization is that of the Province of Quebec, which has been in continual
operation since 1836. The states and provinces, for the most part, maintain annual conventions.
Auxiliary to these auxiliaries are the associations of the counties or next smaller political
divisions. In the thickly settled portions of the country, still smaller organizations are
effected in the townships and cities.

#10. The World's Sunday School Association.#--The First World's Sunday School Convention was
held in the city of London, England, in 1889, about two hundred and fifty delegates attending
from North America. The Second World's Convention was held in connection with the Seventh International
Convention at St. Louis, Missouri, in 1893. The Third World's Convention was held again in
London in 1898. Three hundred delegates were present from North America. The Fourth World's
Convention was held in Jerusalem, Palestine, in 1904. Over eight hundred delegates attended
from North America, and nearly five hundred from Great Britain, traveling in chartered steamships.
The World's Fifth Sunday School Convention was held in the city of Rome, Italy, in 1907, with
over eleven hundred delegates. And there the World's Sunday School Association was organized,
to hold conventions, gather statistics, and to co-operate with other organizations in increasing
the efficiency of Sunday-schools throughout the world. The World's Sixth Sunday School Convention
is to be held in Washington, D. C., 1910.

Test Questions

1. What is the Sunday-school?

2. Give instances of the earliest schools for the study of God's Word.

3. Describe what is known as the Raikes movement.

4. How early are Sunday-schools known to have existed on our continent?

5. How many Sunday-schools in the world to-day?

6. What proportion of these are in America?

7. What is the Sunday School Union of London?

8. What is the American Sunday School Union?

9. Where and when were the four National Sunday-school Conventions held?

10. When and where did the International Lessons have their origin? When put into use?

11. How many International Conventions have been held?

12. By whom are the International Lessons selected?

13. What is the work of the International Sunday School Association?

14. Describe its system of Auxiliary Associations.

15. What is the World's Sunday School Association?

Lesson 2

The Sunday-school Equipped

#11. Buildings.#--A discussion of Sunday-school buildings properly comes under the head of
equipment, but as that is a large topic by itself, it is not our purpose to consider it here
but to confine ourselves to those features of equipment which may be used in any building.
The buildings should be made with the needs and conveniences of the Sunday-school in mind.
The department rooms and class rooms are but expressions of this idea. The school deserves
as good a room as the preaching service, and one as thoroughly adapted to its uses. Department
rooms and class rooms can often be temporarily arranged by the use of curtains or screens,
in a building where no regular partitions have been provided.

#12. Seating.#--Chairs are better than pews. They should be comfortable, and adapted to the
size of the pupils who are to use them. No one can sit quietly very long unless his feet can
rest squarely on the floor. If the room is not carpeted, the chair legs should have rubber tips.

#13. Tables.#--Such of the officers as need to use desks or tables should have tables of their
own, so that all of their books, blanks, and supplies may be kept in proper order. Class tables
are very desirable. They need not be very large. Each table should have a drawer or box in
it for the song-books and other property of the class. This economizes time and saves confusion,
as nothing will need to be distributed.

#14. Class Boxes.#--Where it is impossible to use class tables, a class box is next in value.
It should contain the song-books and everything else belonging to the class, and should be
kept in a given place where some member of the class can secure it before the school, and replace
it after the school is closed.

#15. Blackboards.#--It is impossible to overestimate the value of blackboards in Sunday-school
work when rightly used. There ought to be one in the main school, and one in every department
room. It would be well, also, if there were a small blackboard in every class room. It can
be used for so many purposes, such as reviewing the lesson, announcing hymns or displaying
reports. The revolving blackboard is the best for general use, and the most ornamental. Square
crayons of half an inch, or one inch, in size are better than the ordinary round school crayon.
Simple work is better than elaborate work. Anybody can use a blackboard to advantage, whether
he can draw or not.

#16. Maps.#--If a school can have but one map, let it be the map of Palestine. Then add the
following maps, in the order named: Bible Lands; a second map of Palestine,--one for Old Testament
and one for New Testament; Paul's missionary journeys; a missionary map of the world; a missionary
map of the denomination. A sand map is good for use in the later elementary grades, but should
not wholly displace the wall map.

#17. Charts.#--Many helpful charts are now prepared for Sunday-school use; charts of the life
of Christ, charts for missionary purposes and temperance teaching, charts with choice passages
of Scripture and hymns.

#18. Libraries.#--If possible, have two libraries, one for teachers, one for scholars. A teachers'
library should contain Bible-study helps and books for Sunday-school workers, which treat of
special phases of Sunday-school work. The scholars' library should be properly classified so
that the members of all departments will feel an equal interest in it.

#19. Missionary Curios.#--Material aid in creating missionary interest will be secured by showing
woods, stones, plants, flowers, clothing, and birds from the various foreign fields, and by
the use of pictures and models of their buildings, which reveal the customs of the lands under
consideration. These things are abundant, and are comparatively inexpensive.

#20. Flags and Banners.#--Every school should have the flag of the nation displayed at each
session. Many schools use the Christian flag, also, made of white silk with a blue field and
red cross. The "Conquest Flag" is also popular. Banners for Star Classes, Excelsior Classes,
Honor Classes, etc., are desirable if properly used. Considerable school spirit may be cultivated
by having school colors embodied in a pennant, which is always displayed when the school is
in session.

#21. Objects.#--Many objects are now prepared that are valuable in Sunday-school work, such
as building blocks, models of the Tabernacle, globes, and birthday banks.

#22. Bibles and Music Books.#--Every member of the school who is old enough to read should
bring his own Bible. Nevertheless, it is well to have a supply of school Bibles, as they should
be used in the school instead of lesson helps. Select a good music book, and get plenty of
copies. If every member has a book, the singing and the order will be better. Hymn banners
and song rolls are useful adjuncts.

#23. Pictures.#--Choice pictures are not only beautiful, but valuable in many ways. The walls
of the Sunday-school room, and especially of the elementary departments, should be well decorated
with choice inexpensive pictures, illustrating various Bible scenes; there may also be miscellaneous
pictures of an equally elevating and refining character.

#24. Stereopticon.#--Here and there a school is able to have a stereopticon or magic lantern.
This instrument is becoming more popular every day. If properly used, a stereopticon is very
helpful in Sunday-school work.

#25. Lesson Helps.#--Supply yourselves with plenty of lesson helps for officers, teachers,
and scholars. Get the very best, but leave them at home on Sunday.

#26. Records and Printing.#--Records that are worth keeping, at all, are worth keeping well,
and in well-made books. All printing should be well done or not done at all. Business houses
are judged by their printing; Sunday-schools likewise. Use good paper, occasionally colored
inks, and let all the printing be neat and tasteful.

#27. Bells.#--Bells are useful, if not used too much. Do not use a gong. A small tea bell is
large enough for an ordinary room. The less noise the superintendent makes, the less noise
the scholars will make.

#28. Equipment for Hand-Work.#--This comparatively new feature of Sunday-school work is rapidly
gaining favor. It is usually the most successful in the Junior Department, though it is used
extensively in both the Primary and Intermediate departments. In this brief paragraph, we can
but mention some of the phases of hand-work, as follows:--The sand map; the pulp map; map drawing;
written lesson outlines; cutting and pasting pictures in blank books (with or without writing),
treating of the current lessons, or missionary lands and themes; sewing; modeling Oriental
objects in clay, pulp, etc., etc.

Test Questions

1. When there are no separate rooms for departments, what may be done?

2. Name some of the requisites in the most satisfactory seating.

3. Name two important articles of class promotion.

4. What are some of the uses of a blackboard?

5. State what maps are needed in the school.

6. What kind of books should a teacher's library contain?

7. Suggest ways of creating missionary interest.

8. What banners and objects would be valuable?

9. Who should bring Bibles to the school?

10. What is the proper place for lesson helps on Sunday?

11. What are some of the things needed for hand-work in the school?

Lesson 3

The Sunday-school Organized

#29.# A Sunday-school is organized for work when (1) the official positions are filled; (2)
there are teachers for all the classes; (3) the scholars are properly enrolled and classified;
(4) and it has intelligently set itself thoroughly to accomplish, in a definite way, that for
which a Sunday-school stands.

#30. Enrolment.#--The name of every member of the school should be enrolled either in a book
or by the card system. The enrolment should show not only name and address, but date of entry,
birthday, date of promotion from one department to another, date of uniting with the church,
date and cause of leaving the school; date of death, if necessary.

#31. Classification (or Grading).#--Classification consists in placing the scholars in such
departments and classes as will secure for them and for the whole school the best results in
the best manner. This will require that the scholars be advanced from one department to another
at proper intervals, in order to meet their changing needs.

#32. Departments.#--Every Sunday-school should be divided into departments. Three or four departments
are possible in the smallest schools, and more are desirable in larger ones. It is usually
possible to maintain the following departments in an ordinary school:

    (1) The Cradle Roll, for children too small to attend the
    regular sessions. These are usually under three years of age.

    (2) The Beginners, for children from three to six.

    (3) The Primary, for children from six to nine.

    (4) The Junior, for children from nine to eleven or twelve.

    (5) The Intermediate, for boys and girls from twelve to
    fifteen or sixteen. (In some schools, a Senior Department,
    coming between the Intermediate and the Adult, is
    recognized.)

    (6) Adult, for all over fifteen or sixteen.

    (7) The Home Department, for those who cannot attend, but
    who will study the lessons each week.

    (8) The Teacher-Training Department, for those who are
    preparing to become teachers.

In many schools of several hundred or more, the Adult Department indicated above is divided
into a Young Men's Department, a Young Women's Department, and a Senior Department of classes
of either sex.

An educational test may be required for promotion with honors from one department to the other;
but transfer (without honors) may be made upon the age basis. Without departments there can
be no thorough grading.

#33. Departmental Organization.#--Each department should have some organization within itself,
at least a superintendent in general charge. The superintendent of the department determines
in what classes new scholars shall be enrolled, and carries into effect the plans of work outlined
by the cabinet or the superintendent of the Sunday-school. The teachers should be especially
adapted to the work of the department, and should remain in that department as long as they
can do their best work there.

#34. Classification (or Grading.)#--Proper classification cannot be maintained unless some
one especially appointed for this purpose gives it careful attention every Sunday. Neither
teachers nor scholars should be allowed to bring new members into their classes without the
consent of the officer in charge of the classification, nor should new scholars be permitted
to join whatever class they wish, regardless of proper classification. Eternal vigilance is
the price of grading. The superintendent of classification will determine to what department
the new scholar belongs, and his word should be final.

#35. Promotions.#--There comes a time when a scholar ceases to belong in one department, and
belongs in another. Promotions should be made regularly, and at a public service. All members
of the school up to and including the intermediate scholars should be promoted at the same
time, changing seats, as far as possible.

#36. Records.#--The general records of the school should be well kept, in ink, in a good book
adapted to the purpose. There should be annual, quarterly, and weekly reports which should
be comparative and complete.

Officers and their Duties

#37.# The officers will vary in number and work, according to the size of the school and the
character of its organization. Certain officers, however, are needed, no matter how large or
small the school may be. Many schools are under-officered; it is oftener so than otherwise.
Not all of the officers we shall name here could be profitably used in a small school, and
yet each of them is important.

#38. The Pastor.#--Since the Sunday-school is a church service, the pastor not only has privileges
there, but has responsibilities as well. His chief responsibility lies in the directing of
the teaching, for the pastor of a church is as responsible for the teaching that is done in
his Sunday-school as for the teaching that is done from his pulpit. This determines largely
his place of greatest opportunity--the selecting of material for the teacher-training class,
and helping to select and appoint the teachers in all departments of the school. He should
not act as superintendent, if it can be avoided, neither should he usually teach a class, except
as a substitute teacher. He should attend the school regularly, and have a vital part in the
program of every session.

#39. The Superintendent.#--The superintendent should be regarded as a church officer, and,
except in union and mission Sunday-schools, should be elected by the church to which the Sunday-school
belongs, in the same manner as other church officers are elected. He should have general charge
of the Sunday-school, and be regarded as its executive head. He should have sole authority
to appoint all of the other officers of the school: such appointment to be confirmed either
by the church or some body representing it, such as a Sunday-school Board or teachers' meeting.
He should have a voice in the appointing of the teachers in all departments. During the school
session he should study the school, seeking to discover the weak places and how to strengthen them.

#40. The Assistant Superintendent.#--The assistant superintendent should take charge of the
school in the superintendent's absence, and should also have specific duties to perform in
every regular session. These duties will be determined by the size and requirements of the
school, and the efficiency of the other officers.

#41. The Secretary.#--The name of this officer indicates his duties. His reports should be
neatly kept in ink, in a book prepared for the purpose. They should be comprehensive and comparative,
so that it may be determined at a glance whether the school is growing or not. He should make
reports weekly, quarterly, and annually.

#42. The Treasurer.#--The duties of this officer are likewise indicated by his name. He should
be more, however, than the custodian of funds. He should endeavor to increase the offerings
to the proper amount. He will pay out money only upon orders properly placed in his hands.

Test Questions

1. Name four conditions that mark the organized Sunday-school.

2. What facts should enrolment show?

3. What is meant by grading?

4. Name the principal departments into which a school may be divided.

5. What officer should receive and locate new scholars?

6. What are some of the factors in wise promotion of school members?

7. State the pastor's chief responsibility for the school.

8. What are the duties of the superintendent?

9. The Assistant Superintendent?

10. What are the secretary's duties?

11. The treasurer's?

Lesson 4

The Sunday-school Organized (Concluded)

#43. The Superintendent of Classification.#--This office may be filled by one of the assistant
superintendents, but in a school of one hundred or more, it is well to have a separate officer.
His duty will be to classify the new scholars, first ascertaining by personal investigation
the department in which the new scholar belongs. This is a most important office, and cannot
be neglected a single Sunday without detriment to the grading of the school.

#44. The Librarian.#--This officer should have charge of the library or libraries and of all
supplies. New books should have his approval before being added to the library. He should properly
classify the books, so that those in each department may know which are best adapted to their
needs. It would be well, if possible, to give him control of a library fund, with authority
to add one or two books at a time as the funds will allow. All such books should be announced
from the platform on the day they are placed in the library. A library maintained in this way
will always be fresh, and never lose its interest.

#45. The Birthday Secretary.#--This officer takes charge of the birthday contributions of the
members. Each member of the school may be asked to contribute on his birthday as many pennies
as he is years old, or as much more as he may choose. The money thus gathered may be used for
benevolent and missionary purposes and become the means of creating considerable interest.

#46. The Substitute Teacher Secretary.#--This officer should see that classes whose teachers
are temporarily absent are supplied with teachers. Having secured a list of names of those
who will substitute, he should send notices each Monday to those who are pledged for the following
Sunday, notifying them that their date is at hand, and asking them also to attend the Workers'
Meeting that week.

#47. The Biographer.#--Some schools call this officer the Historian. He keeps in a book, or
by the card system, permanent records of all the members, with date of entering the school
and other items of interest, such as date of promotion, of joining church, removals, deaths,
etc. Where this work is properly done, the records become exceedingly interesting and valuable.

#48. The Door Men.#--A door man should be placed in charge of each door entering the building,
or opening from one room into another. These door men should know just when the doors may be
opened for people to pass without interfering with the school. They should be in their place
before the school begins, allowing none to enter the room when their entrance would disturb
the services. They should pay special attention to strangers and visitors, and prevent boisterous
conduct or talking about the doors.

#49. The Ushers.#--Every school should have at least one usher, and as many more as are needed.
In a school of three hundred or over, several ushers can be used profitably. They should be
in their places early, to pay proper attention to visitors, and to see that they do not occupy
seats intended for regular scholars. They can also look after new scholars as they enter, and
see that they are directed to the Superintendent of Classification.

#50. The Courtesy Committee.#--This committee will be needed chiefly in larger schools. Its
purpose is to make visitors welcome, and show them every courtesy that is possible. The Courtesy
Committee relieves the superintendent and other officers of this particular duty, thus enabling
such officers to do those things for which they are responsible. Visitors greatly appreciate
this attention, and will go away with a good impression of the school. A Guest Book may be
kept, to secure the names of visitors.

#51. The Missionary Secretary.#--Every Sunday-school ought to be a missionary society. The
Missionary Secretary will endeavor to cultivate missionary interest and spirit in the school.
He can do this by securing a proper distribution of missionary literature, by helping to prepare
missionary programs and concerts, by keeping in touch with those phases of mission work supported
by the school, or church or denomination, and reporting from time to time. He will have charge
of the missionary maps, charts, and curios.

#52. The Temperance Secretary.#--This officer should endeavor to cultivate the spirit of temperance
and good citizenship. If temperance pledges are used in the school, it would be well for him
to keep a record of them, and to enter the names permanently in a book, reporting from time
to time how many names he has. He can aid the superintendent, also, by helping to prepare temperance
concerts, and by introducing various appropriate features into the program on Temperance Sunday.

#53. The Superintendent's Aides.#--These are usually boys, twelve to sixteen years of age,
who are hands and feet for the superintendent. They prepare the platform and room for the school
service, put the blackboard into place, adjust the hymn-board and the flags, if they are used.
They may also distribute the hymn-books and Bibles.

#54. The Messenger Cadets.#--These are usually boys of the Junior Department, and their chief
business is to carry messages to absentees, flowers to the sick, or messages to any one, for
the superintendent or pastor. Under the direction of the Home Department Superintendent they
may deliver the quarterlies and other supplies. They should be in charge of a man who understands
boys and loves to work with them.

#55. The Sunshine Band.#--This is usually made up of girls of the Junior age, who visit the
sick, carry them flowers, sing and read to them, and minister to them in every way they can.
They should be in charge of a woman appointed for this work.

#56. The Department Superintendents.#--These should be looked upon as officers of the Sunday-school.
Each superintendent is expected to preside in his own department, with as much care as if it
were the entire school; to preserve the grading provided for by the superintendent of classification;
to endeavor to keep the classes as nearly uniform in size as possible; and to cultivate a department
life and interest.

#57. The Superintendent's Cabinet.#--All of the officers named above, and the Chairmen of all
the committees named above, constitute the Superintendent's Cabinet. Nothing should be presented
to the teachers or to the school as a whole until it has first been decided upon by the Cabinet.
The Cabinet should have regular meetings, perhaps once a month.

Test Questions

1. What are the duties of a superintendent of classification?

2. Of the librarian?

3. How can a Birthday Secretary be utilized?

4. How may substitute teachers be secured?

5. In what ways can door-men render service?

6. What may ushers do?

7. Through what officers may missionary work be emphasized, and how? Temperance work?

8. What is meant by Superintendent's aides? Messenger Cadets? The Sunshine Band?

9. How may a Superintendent's Cabinet help the school?

Lesson 5

The Sunday-school in Session

#58.# The Sunday-school session is not the Sunday-school, for the same reason that a church
service is not the church. The session begins, carries out a certain program, and closes. The
Sunday-school continues throughout the week. Much previous planning and preparation are essential
to the success of any Sunday-school session.

#59. Time.#--The most convenient hour is the best hour. Having discovered that hour, hold to
it the year round. Frequent changes will bring disaster. Every hour has its advantages and
disadvantages. The morning hour is usually attended by more tardiness of teachers and scholars,
but all are fresher. The noon hour will suffer less from tardiness and will have a larger attendance
of adults. Discipline will be more of a problem, especially if the school is continued far
beyond the dinner time. The afternoon hour has the following advantages: (1) The school does
not precede nor follow another service, which is detrimental to both. (2) A completely rounded
program can be carried out because the time will be longer. (3) There is opportunity for after-meetings,
if desired. Many of the best schools are held in the afternoon. There are the following disadvantages,
however: (1) It breaks in upon the Sunday afternoon home life. (2) It prevents the members
from working in mission schools, etc. (3) It may interfere with the attendance at the night
services.

#60. Length of Session.#--The usual session is one hour long, but this is too short to secure
the best results. An hour and a quarter is better, and is long enough for a morning or noon
school. Under good management, an afternoon school can use an hour and a half to advantage.

#61. Program.#--The superintendent should have a written program, and know his ground every
step of the way. The pastor and chorister should have copies. So also should every individual
participant. The passing from one feature of the program to the next should be done quickly,
and, so far as possible, without announcement.

#62. How to Begin.#--Be ready. Insist that all officers and teachers shall be ready. Begin
exactly on time. Do not wait for anything nor anybody. Be sure all understand the signal for
beginning. Give the signal once, never oftener. Wait for silence. Do not begin without it.

#63. Signals.#--Use the bell sparingly, if at all. For certain signals the bell may be desirable,
but never to secure order. A chord on the piano is better than a bell. Piano signals should
be arranged so that a signal given in a certain way always means the same thing. The superintendent's
rising in his place, or, if standing, simply raising his hand, should be signal enough to secure
the attention of any school. It will be, if the school is properly trained, and so seated as
to be able to see a signal.

#64. Music.#--An orchestra is good, but should not be too large for the room. A piano is better
than an ordinary organ because of its distinct tones. The next best instrument to add is a
violin for a small room and a cornet for a large one. Do not consume too much time with instrumental
music in the session. The orchestra can give an overture at the opening, a number while classes
reassemble after the teaching period, and a postlude at the close. That is sufficient. The
superintendent should select the hymns, in conference with the chorister. Some of them should
be appropriate to the lesson of the day. Use one or two old church hymns at each session. Select
a good book, and have plenty of copies. The best results cannot be secured where even two sing
from the same book. The hymn numbers should be placed on the blackboard or hymn-board, before
the opening, in plain sight of all.

#65. Prayers.#--Sunday-school prayers should never be long, and those who pray aloud should
keep the children in mind. All the rest will follow. Two or three short prayers at different
times are better than one long prayer.

#66. Memorizing Scripture.#--Every school should repeat some Scripture from memory every Sunday.
Select the verses carefully, and not too many of them. A few verses thoroughly memorized are
better than many imperfectly learned.

#67. Lesson Study.#--The lesson study period should be the heart of the session. It should
never have less than thirty minutes. Hold this period sacred to the teachers, without interruption
of any kind. No visiting of classes by officers at this time should be permitted. The necessary
business of the session should be conducted during the opening and closing services. Do not
distribute books nor papers to the classes until the close of school--certainly not during
the teaching period.

#68. Review.#--The superintendent should not review the entire lesson; he should mention only
that part of it which enables him to fix the personal application he has in mind for the school
that day. The blackboard will help if properly used.

#69. Reports.#--Reports should be few, and very short, never in detail. Calling the roll of
officers and teachers is a waste of time. To give the number present, the number absent, the
offering for the day, the missionary collection, and the names of the sick is usually sufficient,
except in cases of emergency, such as deaths or funerals.

#70. Announcements.#--The fewer announcements the better. Those that must be made should be
brief, plain, striking. Do not call them "announcements." Work them in, one at a time, as comments
on the program in hand. The announcement that you have an announcement to make is an announcement
wasted, and time wasted, too. Never take the time of all to make an announcement that concerns
but a few. Do not fall into set forms. Announcements may be interesting and instructive, but
usually they are not so. They should be made a study.

#71. How to Close.#--The lesson review or application should be followed by a short prayer.
Then sing a sweet, familiar hymn bearing upon the truth you have tried to impress, the school
remaining seated. Then the benediction, school still seated. Then a moment of silent prayer,
followed by the piano or orchestra softly playing the music that has just been sung. Let this
be the signal for dismissal.

Test Questions

1. What are some of the advantages and disadvantages of the various hours for Sunday-school
session?

2. What are some of the details to look out for in beginning a session?

3. Name a signal that is better than a bell.

4. State how you would plan to secure good singing.

5. What should not be allowed during the lesson period?

6. Outline a good plan for the closing service.

Test Questions for Review

Lessons 1 to 5

1. What is the purpose of the Sunday-school?

2. How many Sunday-schools in the world to-day?

3. Suggest ways of creating missionary interest in the school.

4. What are some of the requisites for hand-work in the school?

5. Give four conditions that mark the organized Sunday-school.

6. What is meant by grading?

7. Name the principal departments into which a school may be divided.

8. When and where did the International Lessons have their origin?

9. By whom are the International Lessons selected?

10. What is the work of the International Sunday School Association?

11. What is the World's Sunday School Association?

12. How may substitute teachers be secured?

13. What is meant by Messenger Cadets?

14. What are special points to look out for in beginning a session?

15. How would you plan to secure good singing?

Lesson 6

The Sunday-school Teacher

#72. The Teacher's Office.#--Next to the minister of the gospel, the Sunday-school teacher
occupies the highest office in Christian service. The central and most important feature of
every Sunday-school session is the Bible-teaching period. All the other exercises of the school
should be so arranged as to make the teaching period as effective as possible. The teachers
do the teaching; hence the importance of the office. The character of the teacher and the efficiency
of the teaching usually determine the efficiency of the school; like teacher, like school.

#73. The Teacher in Prospect.#--Probably the greatest problem in Sunday-school work, at present,
is that of securing a sufficient number of good teachers. The only solution of this problem
is for every school to have at least one teacher-training class each year. Any school which
sets itself definitely to the task of training its own teachers, from its own ranks, for its
own classes, will reduce the teacher problem to a minimum. Such a class should be composed
of young men and women between the ages of sixteen and thirty, specially chosen by the pastor
and superintendent because of their interest in the work and apparent fitness for it. The class
should be taught by the best teacher obtainable, though he need not be an expert. It should
meet at the church, at the regular Sunday-school hour, thus solving the difficulty as to time
and place. Substitute teachers should never be drawn from this class. A teacher's diploma should
be issued to each student completing the course and passing the required examination.

#74. The Teacher Trained.#--Many who are now teaching desire to take a teacher-training course.
Difficult though it is to maintain a class for such workers, it can be done. Evidently it cannot
meet at the Sunday-school hour, as the teachers are already occupied. A full week-night is
preferable, if it can be had; if not, it may come before or after the Workers' Meeting or prayer-meeting,
though this arrangement is always more or less detrimental to both meetings. Interdenominational
training-classes are much better than none, but the training-class in the local church is the
ideal, and should be maintained wherever it is possible. When it is impossible to attend a
teacher-training class, or there is none, individuals may take a course alone, and this is
often done.

#75. The Teacher Chosen.#--The teacher should be chosen and appointed by the proper authority
representing the church and the Sunday-school. The committee for appointing teachers should
be composed of three persons: the pastor of the church, the superintendent of the Sunday-school,
and the superintendent of the department where the teacher is to teach. If there is a separate
superintendent of teachers in the Sunday-school, he may represent the superintendent of the
school in this capacity. No one should be set over any class as teacher whose appointment is
not satisfactory to the three persons named above.

#76. The Teacher Installed.#--The Sunday-school is a church service, hence the teacher should
be properly recognized by the church. It is desirable that all the officers and teachers should
be assembled and installed in their offices for the coming year with fitting exercises, at
a regular service of the church. Such a service as this dignifies the office of the Sunday-school
teacher, places upon him the approbation of the church, and makes him feel that his work is
appreciated. The installation service should be in charge of the pastor of the church, and
the officers and teachers should be seated in a body. Appropriate exercises for such a service
have been arranged, and may be easily secured from the denominational publishing houses.

#77. The Teacher Protected.#--During the general opening and closing exercises of the Sunday-school
session the superintendent is in charge. But during the teaching period the teacher outranks
everybody else, and is entitled to the full time set apart for teaching without any interruption.
The officers of the school should not be allowed to disturb the classes in any way. The making
of the class reports, gathering of the offering, and similar matters, should be attended to
before the recitation begins, and in such a manner as to make the least interference with the
class work. It is a sin to disturb a class unnecessarily after the teaching has begun.

#78. The Teacher Between Sundays.#--The wise teacher will regard the intervening week between
two sessions of the school as the time of his greatest opportunity. He will review in his mind
the experiences of the previous Sunday, endeavoring to learn therefrom how to improve his work
in the future. He will give himself diligently to the preparation of his lesson and to the
visiting of the absent, and will be especially careful to call upon the sick members of his
class. He will attend the Workers' Meeting, and avail himself of every opportunity for improvement.
He will seek personal interviews with those of his scholars who have been troublesome in the
matter of discipline, and will talk individually with all the members of his class in order
to win them to Christ. He will identify himself with the International Reading Circle, as a
member of which he pledges to read at least one good Sunday-school book each year, and thus
keep in touch with the Sunday-school movements of the world.

#79. The Teacher's Aim.#--The teacher should aim, first of all, to win the confidence and esteem
of his scholars. Until this is done little else is possible, because there can be no effective
teaching without co-operation. He should give his scholars faithful and efficient instruction
in the Word of God. The lesson itself should be taught each Sunday, and not allowed to be brushed
aside by the discussion of any other topic, though other topics may be used to introduce or
illustrate the lesson. He should endeavor to lead his scholars to an acceptance of the Lord
Jesus Christ as their Saviour. This is oftener accomplished by a personal interview than in
the class. He should aim to lead his scholars into membership in the local church. He should
aim, by careful training and instruction, to build his scholars up into strong Christian characters,
and to fit them for the duties of civic and religious life. Let him remember that his work
is for eternity.

#80. The Teacher's Reward.#--The teacher receives much of his reward as he goes along, but
not all of it. The privilege of being associated with the Great Teacher, and laboring in obedience
to his command; the joy of leading souls to Jesus Christ, and sending them out into the world
as witnesses for him; the consciousness of growing power in service because of work well done;
the companionship of kindred spirits engaged in the same great work--these are surely rewards
enough. But there is another reward when the work is done. It is God's "Well done" to the faithful.

Test Questions

1. What should be the most important feature of every Sunday-school session?

2. What is the solution of the problem of getting teachers?

3. Who should be in a teacher-training class?

4. Who should choose the teachers?

5. In what special way may the teacher be recognized by the church?

6. What may the teacher accomplish between Sundays?

7. What do you regard as the teacher's proper aims?

8. What is the teacher's reward?

Lesson 7

The Workers' Meeting

#81.# The meeting which is commonly called the Teachers'-Meeting we prefer to call the Workers'
Meeting, because it should be as helpful to the officers as to the teachers. It is impossible
to overestimate the value of a properly conducted Workers' Meeting, and yet it is difficult
to maintain one. A Sunday-school without a Workers' Meeting is a collection of classes, and
not a school at all, strictly speaking. A helpful Workers' Meeting maintained regularly every
week guarantees a good Sunday-school. It is a thermometer accurately indicating the true condition
of the school. To the tired worker it is a refreshing port-of-call between the two continents
of Sunday; to the discouraged, it is a heart stimulant; to the over-busy, it is a storehouse
filled with what they need, and ready for their use. To all who are willing to pay the price
of the best work, it is a necessity.

#82. Leadership.#--The superintendent should preside. It is his meeting. The program should
be in his hands, and of his making. He should not teach the lesson unless he is the best qualified
person to do it. He should have a special message for the workers at each meeting, bearing
upon some phase of the work.

#83. Equipment.#--All who attend should have their own Bibles. Tablets and pencils should either
be brought from home or be furnished by the school. There should be a good blackboard at hand,
also the necessary maps and charts for lesson study. A teachers' library is very important,
and the librarian should be present, so that the workers may take home the books if they desire.
Models of the tabernacle with its furniture, the temple, an Oriental house, etc., will be helpful.
Leaflets on various phases of the work, for distribution, may profitably be used from time to time.

#84. Who Should Attend.#--Certainly the pastor. The teachers are his best helpers; the Sunday-school
is the whitest part of his great field. He cannot afford not to be in vital touch with the
workers of the Sunday-school. He may or may not be the best person to teach the lesson. All
the officers of the school should be there, for the details of their official duties will be
discussed from time to time. Of course the teachers will be there, and the substitute teachers
who are to act on the following Sunday. It would be well also for the prospective teachers
or the members of the training class to be present, if possible. Some schools require the attendance
of the teachers upon this meeting.

#85.# #The purpose of the meeting# is to study the school, to plan for the school work, to
create Sunday-school enthusiasm; to disseminate Sunday-school intelligence; to maintain a vital
relation to the great Sunday-school movements of the day; to show how to teach the lesson for
the following Sunday. It is to help, instruct, encourage, and equip the officers and teachers
at every point, and in every way.

#86. Time and Place.#--If possible, devote an evening to it, late in the week and at the church.
Settle upon one night and stick to it. Those who are absent will always know exactly when and
where the next meeting will be held. No more important meeting is ever held at the church than
this, and it ought to have the right of way one night in the week. It is a short-sighted policy
on the part of any church to deny this.

#87. Methods of Lesson Work.#--The Workers' Meeting is not a Bible class. To conduct it as
one will usually kill it. A good Workers' Meeting presupposes previous preparation of the lesson
on the part of the teachers. They do not come there to study the lesson. Other things being
equal, that Workers' Meeting is the best which, under wise leadership, has the largest number
of participants. It should be conducted on the catechetical rather than the lecture plan. The
method of presenting the lesson should have more consideration than the subject-matter. The
"Angle Method" of conducting the lesson periods of a Workers' Meeting is very popular, and
is explained by the following, which may be printed on cards, and handed a week in advance
to ten persons, each of whom is asked to be prepared on a given "Angle."

#Angle No. 1--Approach.#

    Give subject of last lesson, brief intervening history, time,
    place, and circumstances leading to this lesson.

    Let the lesson text be read at this point.

#Angle No. 2--The Lesson Story.#

    Give the lesson story in your own words.

#Angle No. 3--Analysis.#

    Give one or more simple working outlines for studying and
    teaching this lesson. Use the blackboard if convenient.

#Angle No. 4--Biography.#

    Give the names of persons, classes, and nations mentioned or
    referred to in the lesson.

#Angle No. 5--Orientalisms.#

    Give any Oriental customs or manners peculiar to this lesson.

#Angle No. 6--Central Truth.#

    Give the central truth of the lesson and your reason for its
    choice.

#Angle No. 7--First Step.#

    Give a good way to introduce this lesson so as to secure
    attention from the start.

#Angle No. 8--Primary.#

    Give the features of this lesson which are best adapted to
    small children.

#Angle No. 9--Illustrations.#

    Give a few incidents or facts that will serve as
    illustrations.

#Angle No. 10--Practical Lessons.#

    Give the most practical lessons in personally applying the
    truths of this lesson.

The leader should be prepared on all the "Angles," so that he can take the place of any one
who is absent.

#88. Program.#--Begin with a bright, earnest, tender devotional service of ten minutes, remembering
in prayer any who may be sick, and special cases of interest mentioned by those present. Then
devote fifteen or twenty minutes, according to the need, to some feature of the school work
previously decided upon. It may be a discussion of finances, led by the treasurer, or of the
records, led by the secretary, or of grading, led by the superintendent of classification,
or a consideration of a given department, led by the superintendent of that department. Follow
this with thirty or thirty-five minutes in the consideration of the lesson. Then devote about
ten minutes to messages or suggestions from the pastor or superintendent, or both, closing
with a five-minute service of prayer and song. The service can be made to come within an hour,
by shortening some of the items named above. At the close of the Workers' Meeting, spend a
few minutes in social intercourse. A Workers' Meeting conducted after this manner will be a
veritable dynamo of power for the Sunday-school, and none who can attend will willingly remain
away.

Test Questions

1. State some of the gains in having a Workers' Meeting.

2. Who should lead that meeting?

3. What equipment is needed for it?

4. Who should attend it?

5. Describe the "Angle Method" of lesson study at the Workers' Meeting.

6. Outline a suggested program for such a meeting.

Lesson 8

Sunday-school Finance

#89. Christian giving is Christian worship.# No test of Christian character is so accurate
or severe as the motive and method of giving. Giving is a Christian grace, and the Sunday-school
is the best place to cultivate it. The Sunday-school should be the "West Point" of the church,
in this as in other things. Since the Sunday-school is a church service, the church is evidently
responsible for its maintenance and support. It does not follow, however, that the church should
pour into the Sunday-school all the money it needs, nor that the Sunday-school should give
away all the money it raises.

#90. The Financial Board.#--There is in many a church, and should be in every one, a board
having the special care of the finances of the Sunday-school. This board should be composed
of certain officials in both the church and the Sunday-school, so that their action may be
wise and intelligent. Certainly the pastor, superintendent, church treasurer, and school treasurer
should be members of this board. They should be empowered to carry out the financial policy
of the school, direct in all matters of financial detail, audit all bills, and see that these
are promptly paid, so the good credit of the school may be maintained.

#91. The Budget.#--At the beginning of each year a carefully prepared budget should be presented
by the Financial Board, indicating how much money the school will be asked to raise, and what
proportion of it should be used for benevolences, church support, school expenses, etc. A liberal
allowance should be made for unexpected expenditures that cannot be foreseen. The budget should
be printed, so that each member may have a copy. If satisfactory, the budget may be accepted
by the school, by vote, as an indication of its loyalty to the board and to the church.

#92. Right Motives in Giving.#--All giving should be "as unto the Lord." The scholars should
be taught that we are all stewards, and that everything we have belongs to God. Sunday-schools
properly imbued with right motives in giving to-day mean churches aflame with financial and
spiritual power to-morrow. When the motive is right, giving is a means of Christian growth.
Love is the only worthy motive; giving is the test of love. You can give without loving, but
you cannot love without giving; God so loved the World that he gave his only son. Without love,
there is no joy in giving. Without joy in giving, we cannot please him; "God loveth a cheerful
giver." No deeper joy ever comes to the Christian heart than the joy of right giving. Jesus
said, "It is more blessed to give than to receive." Every Sunday-school should be taught this
truth, and taught why it is truth.

#93. Right Methods in Giving.#--Every member of the school should be asked to contribute a
certain amount regularly each Sunday, making up the same in cases of absence. This amount should
be decided upon by the scholar in conference with his parents or the teacher, unless the scholar
earns his own money. Avoid spasmodic efforts in raising money. In the end, the effect on the
school is not good, and the results are not satisfactory. Every member should be urged to give
something, no matter how small. The sum given should be in proportion to the ability to give,
and not gauged by what others do. One of the safest foundations that can be laid for the development
of Christian character and a happy life is to fix in youth the habit of regular, systematic,
intelligent giving. Small, dated envelopes for each scholar, one for each Sunday, stating the
purpose for which the money is used, generally insure larger offerings and greater satisfaction
to the givers. Do not gather the offering during the singing or during any other feature of
the service. Dignify it by giving it a place and time. Offer a prayer over it before passing
it to the treasury.

#94. How to Use the Money.#--The larger share of the money contributed by a Sunday-school ought,
if possible, to be devoted to missionary work and benevolences. A certain proportion of the
money should be passed over to the church treasury, so that every member of the school may
know that he is helping to support the church, and feel that the church's pastor is his pastor.
A certain portion of the money should be used for the expenses of the school. This will teach
economy and independence. The proper division of these funds will not be the same in all cases,
but should be determined by the Financial Board, in view of the local conditions and needs.

#95. Records and Reports.#--No account should be kept of the money given by any member, but
only of the fact of giving. Thus may be avoided the appeal to the pride of the well-to-do,
and the envy of the very poor. The report for each Sunday should show how many givers and how
many omitters there are in each department or class and in the whole school. Mentioning the
departments or classes having no omitters will stimulate other departments and classes to seek
that distinction. A blackboard properly ruled so that nothing need be done but put in the figures,
can be made to show this in a manner that will not be forgotten, and it will be a good object-lesson
to the whole school. Frequent reports should be made to the entire school as to the use that
is made of the money. Printed statements should be issued, if possible, with full, detailed
report of all funds received and expended, which the scholars may take home to their parents.
The more thoroughly the school and the home are kept informed as to these financial operations,
the more generous and intelligent will be the giving.

Test Questions

1. How should the Financial Board be made up, and what are its duties?

2. What is the true motive for giving?

3. Name some right methods in giving.

4. What use should be made of Sunday-school contributions?

5. What facts should the Treasurer's weekly report include?

Lesson 9

The Sunday-school and Missions

#96.# "It is the whole business of the church, and it is the business of the whole church,
to carry the whole Gospel to the whole world as speedily as possible." Missionary work is not
one of the features of church activity; it is the one all-important work of every church, every
Sunday-school, every Christian. Without intelligent missionary interest there can be little
spiritual power. Every Sunday-school should be, in fact, a missionary organization, and set
itself to definite, far-reaching missionary tasks.

#97. Missionary Secretary.#--Every Sunday-school should have a Missionary Secretary. He should
be deeply interested in missions, and as thoroughly informed as possible. He should bring to
the school from time to time the latest missionary intelligence, especially from those fields
in which the denomination, the church, and the school are most interested. He will select the
missionary books for the scholars' and the teachers' library. He should co-operate with the
other officers and teachers in creating and maintaining a missionary atmosphere in the school.

#98. Missionary Committee.#--If the school is large, a Missionary Committee will be useful.
It should be under the general direction of the Missionary Secretary, and should consist of
one person from each department of the school. This will insure that all departments are brought
into vital touch with the missionary activities of the school. Such a committee will be most
helpful in arranging missionary programs, selecting members for the mission study classes,
planning the entire missionary instruction of the school, and attending to the proper distribution
of missionary periodicals and literature. This committee may also assist in securing a missionary
training of the teachers in the teacher-training classes.

#99. Missionary Libraries.#--Some of the choice, bright, interesting missionary books which
are now very abundant should be in every Sunday-school library. If selections are properly
made, the books will be sought for and eagerly read by the boys and girls. There should also
be in the teachers' library some special missionary books dealing with methods (see Appendix),
and the teachers should be urged to read them.

#100. Missionary Equipment.#--Splendid missionary maps, charts, pictures, and curios are now
abundant and inexpensive. They may be secured from denominational publishing houses. Every
school should have a supply, and they should be in the care of the Missionary Secretary. Large
charts and maps may be made by the scholars under the direction of the Missionary Committee.
Secure, if possible, a missionary map of the world, and a map showing the missionary activities
of the denomination. Charts showing the relative strength and growth of the Christian religion
as compared with other religions in all parts of the world are effective. A cabinet of missionary
curios is most desirable.

#101. Mission Study Class.#--There should be at least one mission study class in every school.
It is usually possible. Such classes need not continue all the year. Ten meetings of one hour
each, for ten successive weeks, will enable any class that applies itself to the work to complete
one of the elementary text-books relating to missions. The meetings should be held on a week-night,
and they should not be obliged to divide the evening with any other meeting. The available
time in the Sunday-school session is not long enough unless double the number of lessons are
used, and this is not always practicable. The class should be composed only of those young
people who are deeply interested, or want to become interested, in missions. Five to ten members
are enough for a good class. The leader should be an enthusiast who is not afraid to work.
Such a class maintained for a few years will create a missionary interest in any school that
will reveal itself in larger offerings, and probably in volunteers for the missionary field.

#102. Missionary Room.#--If there is an available room in the church, it would be well to set
it apart as the Missionary Room. Here will be found the missionary library, periodicals, maps,
charts, and curios, properly displayed and cared for. It may be a class-room, if no other room
is to be had. The Missionary Secretary will have a table or desk here, and it will serve as
his office. It will furnish a good place for the mission study class, and will be the center
of all the missionary activities of the school.

#103. Missionary Sunday.#--Missionary instruction should be given in connection with every
lesson that will permit of it. Once a month, however, there should be special missionary exercises,
whether the particular lesson lends itself to missionary treatment or not. Five or ten minutes'
time during the opening or closing exercises can be profitably arranged for by the Missionary
Secretary with appropriate music, missionary selections, recent items from the field, map drill,
and display of charts and curios. Or, some of the elementary outlines of missionary study now
available may be taught from the platform or taken up in the classes.

#104. Missionary Concerts.#--A properly arranged missionary concert is interesting and instructive.
Usually it is best to confine each concert to a given missionary field. Display a map of the
field. Have participants dressed to represent the natives. Appropriate music, recitations,
facts from the field, and a short missionary address by the pastor or by a returned missionary
will make an excellent program. Secure from your denominational publishing house leaflets giving
facts about the field under consideration, and distribute them to the audience. Once a quarter
is none too often for a missionary concert.

#105. Denominational Boards.#--Every Sunday-school should contribute regularly and generously
to its own denominational benevolences. Contribute to one benevolence at a time, and let this
one be definitely explained, so that the giving may be intelligent. Every school ought to be
familiar with the great missionary movements of the world, and especially of its own denomination.

#106. Specific Objects.#--More interest can be created and more money raised for a specific
than for a general object, and done more quickly. Denominational boards, recognizing this,
have provided to meet it by enabling churches, schools, and individuals to contribute to a
specific purpose, under the general direction of a given board. Shares to the extent of the
donor's contribution are assigned in a particular station, the donor thus having a share in
the entire work of the station. This is known as the "Station Plan" of giving.

#107. Reflex Influence.#--No church, school, nor Christian can honor the Master by endeavoring
to carry out his last command without receiving a great blessing. The power and effectiveness
of a local school in its own work are usually in proportion to its interest in the world-wide
Kingdom. If it will "make a little cake" for others first, it will have all it needs at home.
This rule is without exception.

Test Questions

1. Repeat the quoted sentence at the beginning of paragraph 96.

2. What are the duties of the missionary secretary?

3. Of the missionary committee?

4. What missionary equipment is desirable?

5. State how a mission-study class may be conducted.

6. What plan may well be used for a Missionary Sunday?

7. For a Missionary concert?

8. What is usually the measure of the power of the local school?

Lesson 10

Organized Adult Classes

#108.# Organized classes have existed in small numbers here and there for many years; not until
recently, however, has the attention of the Sunday-school world been especially attracted to
them. When once their value became recognized the idea spread rapidly, and the organized adult
class is now one of the most prominent features of Sunday-school work almost everywhere.

#109. Organization.#--Elaborate organization will not be needed, except in very large classes.
It is best to organize men's classes and women's classes separately. Call together by announcement
and invitation those who are interested in forming a class, for conference. Furnish them with
the leaflets on organized classes furnished by the denomination or by the International Sunday
School Association. Explain the method and purpose of class organization. Endeavor to secure
a definite number of charter members to begin with. Adopt the suggested International constitution,
or some other if better suited to the needs of the class; or appoint a committee to draft the
sort of a constitution desired. Secure the International Certificate of Recognition, which
should be framed and hung upon the walls of the class-room. It will be well to make the organization
conform to the standard set up by the International Sunday School Association, and outlined
in their leaflets.

#110. Purpose.#--The real purpose of class organization is to make the class more effective
in those things for which a Sunday-school class exists. Genuine, faithful Bible study for the
purpose of leading men and women to Christ, developing Christian character, training for service,
securing their membership in the church, and setting them to work, is the business of the class.
Everything else must contribute to this. With this as the goal, any wisely conducted class
will succeed; but if anything else overshadows this, true success is impossible. Thoroughly
organized classes will solve the problem of holding men and women in the Sunday-school, and
are doing it continually.

#111. Officers and Their Duties.#--Elect a president, vice-president, secretary, and treasurer,
whose duties will be those usually performed by such officers. The president will preside,
not only at all class meetings, but at the regular Sunday session of the class as well. The
most important officer to choose is the teacher. Select the very best teacher obtainable, and
one, if possible, who is well known and liked by the class. The teacher and president should
be ex-officio members of all committees. Other officers may be chosen as they are needed.

#112. Committees.#--Appoint but few committees to start with, and others as the need arises.

The Executive Committee may consist of the general officers of the class and the chairmen of
the various standing committees.

The Membership Committee will seek to secure new members, look up the absentees, and visit
the sick. As the class grows in size, part of this work may be assigned to special committees.

The Devotional Committee will have in charge the devotional services of the class on Sundays
and at other meetings.

The Social Committee will welcome and introduce new members and visitors; it will also seek
to cultivate the social side of the class, providing such gatherings and entertainments as
may be approved.

The growing needs of the class will suggest special committees from time to time.

#113. Name.#--There is inspiration in a good name. It may be the name of some prominent person
in the denomination or community, but it is better not to use the name of any one still living.
Or the name may have the charm of secrecy--a word or initials--with a significance known only
to the class. Whatever name is adopted, make much of it. Let it be prominent on all the class
printing. Many classes adopt "colors," and decorate their class-room with them; some choose
a class flower, to be worn on special occasions. Class stationery and whatever else will tend
to cultivate a class spirit is desirable.

#114. Class Meetings.#--There should be regular meetings of the class, at least quarterly.
The social committee will usually arrange for these meetings, but occasionally another committee
should be in charge, as the literary or athletic committee. The great occasion of the year
will be the annual meeting, when a special effort should be made to secure the presence of
all members, past and present. The election of officers, a banquet, a fine program, and a glad
reunion will be its customary features.

#115. Relation to the School.#--The organized class should be a part of the Sunday-school with
which it is connected. It will be better if during the opening or closing service the members
of the class can sit with the school. Their relation to the school should be the same as that
of any other class. Class spirit is good, but school spirit is better. They should use the
regular Bible lesson. Nearly all classes which have turned aside from the Bible lessons have
gone down. They should contribute to the regular school fund, and comply with all the requirements
of the school. The influence of large organized classes upon the boys and girls, thus emphasizing
loyalty to the school, is very great.

#116. Relation to the Community.#--Organized classes are now combined in a regular department
of the organized or International Sunday-school work. Each organized class should co-operate
with others in extending and improving organized class work and methods. Delegates should be
sent from the class to conventions and conferences, and make report to the class upon their
return. The International emblem, a small red button or pin with a white center, will enable
members of organized classes to recognize each other when they meet. Much helpful literature
for organized classes is now in print, in the form of periodicals, lesson helps, and books
for teachers, officers, and scholars.

#117. Benefits.#--A class spirit is fostered. The class becomes a working force and unit. The
organized class has something definite to do. It sets every member to work. It helps to hold
the big boys and girls in the school. It interests men and women in the study of the Bible
and in the church. It furnishes workers for the church and Sunday-school, teachers for mission
schools, speakers and singers for evangelistic meetings upon the street and elsewhere. It gives
strength and dignity to the school. It adds largely to the school's financial resources. Organization
carries many a class over the dead center of discouragement, or the weakening influence of
being without a teacher. A well-organized class will grow, for a time at least, whether it
has a teacher or not.

Test Questions

1. Explain a method for organizing an adult class.

2. What is the purpose of such organization?

3. What officers does an organized class need?

4. What committees?

5. What are the advantages of a name for the class?

6. What is the right relation of such a class to the school?

7. To the community?

8. State the benefits of an organized class.

Text Questions for Review

Lessons 6 to 10

1. What should be the most important feature of the Sunday-school session?

2. Who should be in a teacher-training class?

3. What may the teacher accomplish between Sundays?

4. What is a Workers' Meeting?

5. What is the "Angle Method" of study at that meeting?

6. What are the duties of the financial board?

7. How may a mission-study class be conducted?

8. What is usually the measure of a school's power?

9. How may an Adult Class be organized?

10. State the benefits of an organized class.

NOTE.--This entire subject is fully and helpfully discussed by Mr. Lawrance in his book "How
to Conduct a Sunday School."

APPENDIX

Teaching Hints

#Two years of time# preferably should be allowed for the completion of these lessons. The International
Association will grant a diploma upon the completion of the First Standard Course, provided
at least one study year has been spent in pursuing the fifty lessons.

If the book is studied by a normal class, meeting at the time of the regular lesson period
on Sunday, only a half-hour will usually be available; and in this case at least one hundred
half-hour periods, extending over two teaching years, should be used for the fifty lessons.
If full hour periods are available, the course may be completed within one year of fifty lesson
periods.

The Book

Although the numbered lessons begin with the story of Adam on page 14, there are two chapters
which may be used as preliminary material, if the leader chooses. One of these is "How the
Bible Came to Us," by Professor Price, on page 123. There are fifteen numbered paragraphs in
this chapter; if there are at least fifteen members in the class, a profitable hour could be
spent by assigning a paragraph to a member, several days ahead, with the understanding that
each one was to read the entire chapter, but to be specially prepared in his assigned paragraph.
At the time of the lesson hour pencil and paper could be supplied to each member of the class.
Then beginning with paragraph 1, all books closed, the assigned member could state from memory
the contents of the paragraph, while all the others silently write down wrong statements or
omissions--these to be brought out later.

#The chapter on the Bible#, page 11, should also precede the numbered lessons. The chart given
is easily remembered and each member might reproduce this chart from memory and tell something
of each of the several periods enumerated.

#The Lessons on the Book.#--It will be seen that each lesson is composed of several parts:
(a) The historical outline, which is placed first; (b) the geographical work, in a statement
of places and an outline map; (c) a paragraph designated "Significance of Events"; (d) the
story of the period briefly retold in simple language. Note the following suggestions:

(a) The Historical Outline.--These outlines, taken altogether, constitute a complete statement
of the essentials of Bible history. They are the framework upon which may be built as elaborate
a Bible story as one may wish. The outlines may well be used for memory work and in question
drills and reviews.

(b) The Geographical Work.--In most of the chapters the maps are so simply drawn that they
may be used for geography drill, each student being asked to draw (without tracing) the simple
map connected with the lesson, and locate the places mentioned.

(c) Significance of Events.--These paragraphs, taken together, form a concise story of the
progress of redemption and revelation, and state the spiritual teaching of each period. The
essentials of these statements may be memorized, but students should be required to express
the thought in their own language.

(d) The Retold Bible Story.--Emphasis upon the memorizing of the other three parts of the lesson
should not prove an excuse for passing by the Bible narrative here given. Without this the
other work may prove dry and uninteresting--a task. The student who reads and rereads the narrative
with care will find his memory work in the other portions invested with a vitality that will
otherwise be missing. The narrative section will furnish abundant material for brief debates,
informal discussions, assigned papers on special topics, and many other helpful methods. Bible
study of historical facts in rigid outline may be made as dry as dust. Bible study aglow with
human interest and enthusiastically pursued by diversified methods may be made the most interesting
study that can be undertaken.

#Using the Blackboard.#--The blackboard may be used with great profit as an aid in reviewing
a lesson, either at the close of a teaching period, at the beginning of a period following
a lesson assigned for home study, or at intervals in the course after covering several lessons.
No special blackboard outlines are offered in this book; it is urged that each leader shall
construct his own blackboard review from the historical outlines at the beginning of each lesson
on the Bible. Such a blackboard review should be accompanied by questions and answers. Here
is an illustration of the blackboard use of the outlines of Lesson 1, The Book, page 14, after
the entire lesson has been carefully studied and with all books closed.

Leader.--What are the great divisions of the Bible?

Answer.--Old Testament and New Testament.

(Here may follow a drill on the Books of the Old Testament in their order.)

Leader.--We will begin with the study of The Old Testament Division (write).

Leader.--How may this be divided?

Answer.--Into a prelude and five periods.

Leader.--What does the prelude tell about? (Write Prelude.)

Answer.--Story of creation (write).

Leader.--Where do we read about it?

Answer.--Genesis 1, 2 (write).

Leader.--Where do all things have their origin?

Answer.--In God.

Leader.--What does the first period tell about? (Write First Period.)

Answer.--The creation of Adam (write).

Leader.--What "beginnings" do we see in this period?

Answer.--The beginning of the human race, sin, and redemption (write).

Leader.--Where is this told about?

Answer.--Genesis 3 (write).

Leader.--Who is the leading person of the second period? (Write Second Period.)

Answer.--Noah (write).

Leader.--What event is chronicled in connection with Noah?

Answer.--The flood (write).

Leader.--What great structure was built in this period?

Answer.--The tower of Babel (write).

Leader.--What punishment came to the people for building this tower?

Answer.--Confusion of tongues (write)

Leader.--Where do we read about this period?

Answer.--Genesis 6-11 (write).

This method may be followed in the case of each of the Bible lessons.

#Familiarity with maps# should be encouraged at every point. The leader may accustom the class
to the question, "Where is that place?" nearly every time a town or locality is named. The
average beginner in Bible study is afraid of a map; the more familiar he becomes with these
maps, the more confidence he will have in his own Bible knowledge.

#The New Testament Section.#--In the several chapters beginning on page 71 the historical outline
consists of a harmony of the Gospels. It is not intended that the student shall memorize this
harmony; but the ability to reproduce from memory the journey map published in connection with
each section of the harmony would give the student a very helpful grasp on the order of events
in the life of Christ. The use of a journey map as a basis for telling the story of a chosen
period will fix events and geographical location in mind at the same time.

The Pupil

The lessons on The Pupil enter a field of study with which the average teacher is perhaps less
familiar than with the Bible section. Hence the leader will do well to begin slowly and to
allow plenty of time for discussion in the class. Professional teachers who have studied the
science of psychology may be very helpful in occasional talks to the class, provided you are
assured in advance that they will not confuse the students by the use of technical terms. Such
talks from outsiders should be brief, and confined to one phase of the subject, and time should
be allowed for questions by the students and informal discussion.

Students should be encouraged to find their own illustrations for certain well-defined statements.
Take, for instance, the paragraph Imitation under numbered paragraph 6, on page 144. One or
more students may be asked to bring illustrations of this statement from their own home or
Sunday-school experience in a given week. One will tell how he saw a neighbor's boy try to
keep step with his father while on a walk. Another will describe the actions of a little girl
she saw dressed in her mother's skirt--actions plainly imitative of the mother herself. Illustrations
like these observed and reported by the students themselves will greatly aid in the study of
the section, and will be much more valuable than illustrations ordinarily furnished in the
text. The leader is urged, however, to challenge any illustration which misses the point or
gives a wrong impression.

#Bringing the Teaching to a Focus.#--In some cases the superintendent of the department which
includes the age under discussion (as, for instance, The Beginners Department), whether a member
of the class or not, may be invited to tell in from five to ten minutes how far he or she is
able to meet the opportunities, supply the needs, overcome the difficulties, and realize the
results so clearly stated by Mrs. Lamoreaux in the closing paragraphs of each chapter. This
would give the whole lesson a local setting and application.

The Teacher

The remarks in the first paragraph of the section under The Pupil, just preceding, apply equally
here. Outside help is desirable, but simplicity in treatment must be maintained. Profound knowledge
of a subject does not insure ability to restate that knowledge in simple terms. Better not
have the profound knowledge displayed if it is going to leave the students in confusion.

The principle of home-made illustrations referred to above applies equally well to the section
on The Teacher.

It is safe to say that each adult student in the class will remember teachers who have excelled
in the points enumerated by Dr. Brumbaugh. The student should be encouraged to take a statement
like that found in paragraph 4, page 182, and say to himself: "Which of my teachers was notably
enthusiastic? How did this enthusiasm impress me? How did it help him in teaching great truths?"
These observations may frequently need to be made quietly to the student's self. But they will
greatly help him to master the laws of teaching.

The School

Here is a section dealing with a concrete subject, and illustrations will be within the range
of vision of every one who is associated with Sunday-school work. At the very outset there
may be found those who will take exception to many of the suggestions made, because they are
deemed to be impracticable in "our school." This attitude should be firmly but patiently overcome.
If discussion proves that the thing suggested is undesirable, or that a better method may prevail,
that is a point worth making. But the argument that a thing is desirable but "impossible" should
have no footing in a teacher-training class. Let the motto be, "If it ought to be, it can be."

The teacher may be inclined to skip a paragraph like that on The Secretary. "Of what interest
is that to me?" she may ask. The answer is simple: No one is equipped to be a teacher who doesn't
know the school as a whole; and no one knows the school as a whole who doesn't know it in its
several essential parts. Only when the teacher knows the secretary's duties, for instance,
is that teacher prepared to see how careful he should be in meeting his obligations to the
secretary in the line of the latter's official work. Each teacher should be encouraged to study
executive problems, such as those relating to the superintendent and other officers, as if
they were his own; and at least he should discover his part as a teacher in helping the executive
officers to make the school a success.

In many localities sections of the class may visit other schools and report back to the class
upon the features in which these schools excel. This offers a practical laboratory method for
the concrete teaching of these lessons. Of course, such visits should be made with the knowledge
and consent of the superintendent of the school visited; and at such times and in such manner
that the work of the school will not be disturbed. Teachers of regular classes will greatly
profit by an occasional trip to another school; it is time gained rather than lost.

       *       *       *       *       *

Teacher-training superintendents find a marked tendency in some classes to discontinue the
work after the section on The Bible has been covered. It is a false notion that a knowledge
of the Bible is the only thing necessary for Sunday-school teachers. Leaders should enthusiastically
carry their classes past this common "dead-point" over into the sections on The Pupil, The
Teacher, and The School; this special effort to arouse enthusiastic interest in what is to
come after the Bible course will often prevent students from dropping out of the class.

In all the work "make haste slowly." It is more important to get the work done well than it
is to get it done in a given time.

Charts of Paul's Journeyings

  From "A Chart of Paul's Journeyings," Arnold,
  Published by The Sunday School Times Co.

First Journey

      Antioch. Paul and Barnabas commissioned (Acts 13:1-3).
   1. Seleucia. Embarked (Acts 13:4).
   2. Salamis. Preached in synagogues (Acts 13:5).
   3. Paphos. The sorcerer (Acts 13:6-12).
   4. Perga. John Mark returned (Acts 13:13).
   5. Antioch of Pisidia. Preaching and persecution (Acts 13:14-50).
   6. Iconium. Strife (Acts 13:51 to 14:7).
   7. Lystra. Paul stoned (Acts 14:8-19).
   8. Derbe. Made many disciples (Acts 14:20, 21).
   9. Lystra.        }
  10. Iconium.       } Confirmed disciples (Acts 14:21-24).
  11, 12. Antioch.   }
  13. Perga. Spoke the Word (Acts 14:25).
  14. Attalia. Embarked (Acts 14:25).
  15, 16. Antioch. Reported their work (Acts 14:26-28).
  17. Jerusalem. Council (Acts 15:1-29).
  18. Antioch. Tarried, preaching (Acts 15:30-35).

Second Journey

      Antioch. Paul and Barnabas disagree (Acts 15:36-40).
   1. Syria and Cilicia. Confirming churches (Acts 15:41).
   2. Derbe and Lystra. Timothy accompanies (Acts 16:1-3).
   3, 4. Iconium, Antioch. Delivering decrees (Acts 16:2, 4, 5).
   5. Galatia, Phrygia, Mysia, Troas (Acts 16:6-8).
      Troas. Macedonian call (Acts 16:8-10).
   6. Samothrace, Neapolis (Acts 16:11).
   7. Philippi. Lydia; the jailer (Acts 16:12-40).
   8, 9. Amphipolis, Apollonia (Acts 17:1).
  10. Thessalonica. Church planted (Acts 17:1-9).
  11. Beroea. Preaching, strife (Acts 17:10-14).
  12. Athens. Address on Mars' Hill (Acts 17:15-34).
  13. Corinth. Church planted, Aquila and Priscilla (Acts 18:1-17).
  14. Ephesus. Left Priscilla and Aquila (Acts 18:18-21).
  15. Cæsarea. Landed (Acts 18:22).
  16. Jerusalem. Saluted the church (Acts 18:22).
  17. Antioch. Spent some time (Acts 18:22, 23).

Third Journey

       Antioch. Departed from (Acts 18:23).
  1-5. Galatia, Phrygia, Ephesus. Stablishing disciples (Acts 18:23).
       Ephesus. Apollos, Tyrannus, Demetrius (Acts 18:24 to 19:41).
    6. Troas (2 Cor. 2:12, 13).
  7-13. Macedonia, Greece. Gave exhortation (Acts 20:1, 2).
        Greece. Spent three months (Acts 20:3).
  14-18. Philippi. Set sail (Acts 20:4-6).
   19. Troas. Eutychus restored (Acts 20:6-12).
   20. Assos. Took in Paul (Acts 20:13, 14).
   21. Mitylene, Chios, Samos, Miletus (Acts 20:14, 15).
       Miletus. Visit of Ephesian elders (Acts 20:15-38).
   22, 23. Cos, Rhodes, Patara, Cyprus, Tyre (Acts 21:1-3).
      Tyre. Tarried seven days (Acts 21:3-6)
   24. Ptolemais. Abode one day (Acts 21:7).
   25. Cæsarea. Virgin prophets, Agabus (Acts 21:8-14).
   26. Jerusalem. Paul's arrest (Acts 21:27-36).
        Jerusalem. Address in the Hebrew language (Acts 21:37 to
            22:29).
        Jerusalem. Address before the sanhedrin (Acts 22:30 to 23:11).
        Jerusalem. Plot of the Jews (Acts 23:12-32).
     1. Cæsarea. Examination before Felix (Acts 23:33 to 24:23).
        Cæsarea. Before Felix and Drusilla (Acts 24:24-27).
        Cæsarea. Before Festus, appeal to Cæsar (Acts 25:1-12).
        Cæsarea. Before Agrippa and Bernice (Acts 25:13 to 26:32).
   2-5. Sidon, Cyprus, Myra, Cnidus, Crete (Acts 27:1-13).
     6. Sea of Adria, Melita. Shipwreck (Acts 27:14-44).
        Melita. Rescue, miracles by Paul (Acts 28:1-11).
     7. Syracuse. Tarried three days (Acts 28:12).
  8, 9. Rhegium, Puteoli. Found brethren (Acts 28:13, 14).
  10, 11. Appii Forum, Three Taverns. Met by brethren from Rome
            (Acts 28:15).
    12. Rome. Conference with Jews (Acts 28:16-29).
        Rome. Preaching in own hired house (Acts 28:30, 31). Images have been moved from the middle of a paragraph to the
closest paragraph break.

4. Some of the obvious punctuation errors have been corrected, for example, added missing period
at the end of a paragraph.

5. The word Beroea uses an oe ligature in the original.

6. The following misprints have been corrected:
    "Peninusla" corrected to "Peninsula" (page 33)
    "wofully" corrected to "woefully" (page 91)
    "ocuntries" corrected to "countries" (page 129)
    "ittle" corrected to "little" (page 146)
    "ather" corrected to "rather" (page 164)
    "tast" corrected to "last" (page 211)

7. Other than the corrections listed above, printer's inconsistencies in spelling, hyphenation,
and ligature usage have been retained.