    with the music to it, set by Hen. Lawes, is printed in a book,
    entitled Choice Ayres, Songs and Dialogues, to sing to the
    Theorbo Lute, and Bass Viol, folio. 1675, and in Playfield's
    Antidote against Melancholy, 8vo. 1669, and also in Dr.
    Percy's Reliques of Ancient English Poetry, vol. ii. p. 350;
    but in the latter with a mistake in the last line of the third
    stanza, of the word Pentarchy for Pentateuch."

A copy of the Choice Ayres, 1675, is now before me, but Henry Lawes's name does not appear
to the song in question. Sir John has evidently made a mistake; the air of Mad Tom was composed
by John Cooper, alias Giovanni Coperario, for one of the Masques perfomed by the Gentlemen
of Gray's Inn. (See The English Dancing Master, 1651, in the British Museum, and Additional
MS. 10,440, in the same repository.) With regard to the ballad itself, there is an early copy
(of the latter part of the sixteenth century) {266} preserved in the Harleian MSS., No. 7332,
fol. 41. It purports to have been

    "Written (i.e. transcribed) be Feargod Barebone, who being
    at many times idle and wanting employment, wrote out certain
    songs and epigrams, with the idea of mending his hand in
    writing."

There is another copy among Malone's MSS. in the Bodleian (No. 16. p. 55.), where it is entitled
A new Tom of Bedlam. But I contend there is no evidence to show that this is the ballad alluded
to by Walton; none of the copies having the name of the author. We have two other songs (probably
more) bearing the same title of Tom of Bedlam; one beginning, "From the top of high Caucasus;"
the other commencing, "From the hag and hungry goblin;" either of which are quite as likely
to have been intended as that mentioned above.

It still remains a question, I think, which of the two Basses was the author of the ballads
mentioned by Walton. But I have already trespassed so long upon your valuable space that I
will leave the further consideration of the subject until a future period: in the meantime,
perhaps some of your correspondents may be enabled to "illuminate our darkness" upon the various
knotty points.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

       *       *       *       *       *

BEAVER HATS--PISAN.

Allow me to say a few words in reply to your correspondent "GASTROS." His quotation from Fairholt
(Costume in England), who cites Stubbes's Anatomy of Abuses as the earliest authority for the
use of beaver hats in England, is not a satisfactory reply to my query; inasmuch as I am aware
that beaver hats were occasionally worn by great people in this country some centuries before
Stubbes was born. For example, Henry III. possessed "unum capellum de Bevre cum apparatu auri
et lapidibus preciosis;" as appears from the "Wardrobe Account," of the 55th year of his reign.
I have, therefore, still to ask for the earliest instance of the use of hats or caps of this
material in England; such hats, as well as gloves, are mentioned in several English inventories
made between the thirteenth and sixteenth centuries. Is there any example earlier than the
time of Henry III.?

