"Shows Mr. Churchill at his best. The flavor of his humor is of that stimulating kind which
asserts itself just the moment, as it were, after it has passed the palate ... As for Victoria,
she has that quality of vivid freshness, tenderness, and independence which makes so many modern
American heroines delightful."--The Times, London.

The Celebrity. An Episode

"No such piece of inimitable comedy in a literary way has appeared for years... It is the purest,
keenest fun."--Chicago Inter-Ocean.

Richard Carvel                                             Illustrated "...In breadth of canvas,
massing of dramatic effect, depth of feeling, and rare wholesomeness of spirit, it has seldom,
if ever, been surpassed by an American romance."--Chicago Tribune.

The Crossing                                               Illustrated "'The Crossing' is a
thoroughly interesting book, packed with exciting adventure and sentimental incident, yet faithful
to historical fact both in detail and in spirit."--The Dial.

The Crisis                                                 Illustrated "It is a charming love
story, and never loses its interest ... The intense political bitterness, the intense patriotism
of both parties, are shown understandingly."--Evening Telegraph, Philadelphia. If Shakespeare
had written novels we can think that some of his pages would have been like some of these.
Here certainly is language, turn of humor, philosophical play, vigor of incident such as might
have come straight from Elizabeth's day.... The story has its tragedy, but this is less dire,
more reasonable than the tragedy is in too many of Mr. Phillpotts's other tales. The book is
full of a very moving interest, and it is agreeable and beautiful."--The New York Sun.

By Miss ELLEN GLASGOW

    The Romance of a Plain Man                                 $1.50

"From the first she has had the power to tell a strong story, full of human interest, but as
her work has continued it has shown an increasing mellowness and sympathy. The atmosphere of
this book is fascinating indeed."--Chicago Tribune.

By FRANK DANBY

    The Heart of a Child                                Cloth, $1.50

BEING PASSAGES FROM THE EARLY LIFE OF SALLY SNAPE, LADY KIDDERMINSTER

"'Frank Danby' has found herself. It is full of the old wit, the old humor, the old epigram,
and the old knowledge of what I may call the Bohemia of London; but it is also full of a new
quality, the quality of imaginative tenderness and creative sympathy. It is delightful to watch
the growth of human character either in life or in literature, and in 'The Heart of a Child'
one can see the brilliancy of Frank Danby suddenly burgeoning into the wistfulness that makes
cleverness soft and exquisite and delicate.... It is a mixture of naturalism and romance, and
one detects in it the miraculous power ... of seeing things steadily and seeing them wholly,
with relentless humor and pitiless pathos. The book is crowded with types, and they are all
etched in with masterly fidelity of vision and sureness of touch, with feminine subtlety as
well as virile audacity."--James Douglas in The Star, London.

    Sebastian.    A Son of Dreams.                       Cloth, $1.50

THE MACMILLAN COMPANY Publishers    64-66 Fifth Avenue    New York

     *     *     *     *     *     *

NOVELS, ETC., BY "BARBARA"

(MABEL OSGOOD WRIGHT)

Each, in decorated cloth binding, $1.50

The Garden of a Commuter's Wife                            Illustrated

"Reading it is like having the entry into a home of the class that is the proudest product
of our land, a home where love of books and love of nature go hand in hand with hearty, simple
love of 'folks.' ... It is a charming book."--The Interior.

