Jonah took the mouth-organ from his pocket, and rubbed it carefully on his sleeve.  He was
a famous performer on this instrument, and on holiday nights the Push marched through the streets,
with Jonah in the lead, playing tunes that he learned at the "Tiv".  He breathed slowly into
the tubes, running up and down the scale as a pianist runs his fingers over the keyboard before
playing, and then struck into a sentimental ballad.

In five minutes he had warmed up to his work, changing from one tune to another with barely
a pause, revelling in the simple rhythm and facile phrases of the popular songs.  Ada listened
spellbound, amazed by this talent for music, carried back to the gallery of the music-hall
where she had heard these very tunes.  At last he struck into a waltz, marking the time with
his foot, drawing his breath in rapid jerks to accentuate the bass.

"Must 'ave a turn, if I die fer it," cried Ada, springing to her feet, and, with her arms extended
to embrace an imaginary partner, she began to spin round on her toes.  Ada's only talent lay
in her feet, and, conscious of her skill, she danced before the hunchback with the lightness
of a feather, revolving smoothly on one spot, reversing, advancing and retreating in a straight
line, displaying every intricacy of the waltz. The sight was too much for Jonah, and, dropping
the mouth-organ, he seized her in his arms.

"Wot did yer stop for?" cried Ada.  "We carn't darnce without a tune."

"Carn't we?" said Jonah, in derision, and began to hum the words of the waltz that he had been
playing:

  White Wings, they never grow weary,
  They carry me cheerily over the sea;
  Night comes, I long for my dearie--
  I'll spread out my White Wings and sail home to thee.

The pair had no equals in the true larrikin style, called "cass dancing", and they revolved
slowly on a space the size of a dinner-plate, Ada's head on Jonah's breast, their bodies pressed
together, rigid as the pasteboard figures in a peep-show.  They were interrupted by a cry from
Mrs Yabsley's bedroom.  Jonah stopped instantly, with a look of dismay on his face. Ada looked
at him with a curious smile, and burst out laughing.

"I'll 'ave ter put 'im to sleep now.  Cum an' 'ave a look at 'im, Joe--'e won't eat yer."

"No fear," cried Jonah, recoiling with anger.  "Wot did yer promise before I agreed to come down?"

Chook's words flashed across his mind.  This was a trap, and he had been a fool to come.

"I'll cum to-morrow, an' fix up the fowls," he cried, and grabbing his mouth-organ, turned
to go--to find his way blocked by Mrs Yabsley, carrying a shoulder of mutton and a bag of groceries.

CHAPTER 3

CARDIGAN STREET AT HOME

Mrs Yabsley came to the door for a breath of fresh air, and surveyed Cardigan Street with a
loving eye.  She had lived there since her marriage twenty years ago, and to her it was the
pick of Sydney, the centre of the habitable globe.  She gave her opinion to every newcomer
in her tremendous voice, that broke on their unaccustomed ears like thunder:

"I've lived 'ere ever since I was a young married woman, an' I know wot I'm talkin' about.
My 'usband used ter take me to the play before we was married, but I never see any play equal
ter wot 'appens in this street, if yer only keeps yer eyes open.  I see people as wears spectacles
readin' books.  I don't wonder.  If their eyesight was good, they'd be able ter see fer themselves
instead of readin' about it in a book.  I can't read myself, bein' no scholar, but I can see
that books an' plays is fer them as ain't got no eyes in their 'eads."

The street, which Mrs Yabsley loved, was a street of poor folk--people to whom poverty clung
like their shirt.  It tumbled over the ridge opposite the church, fell rapidly for a hundred
yards, and then, recovering its balance, sauntered easily down the slope till it met Botany
Road on level ground.  It was a street of small houses and large families, and struck the eye
as mean and dingy, for most of the houses were standing on their last legs, and paint was scarce.
The children used to kick and scrape it off the fences, and their parents rub it off the walls
by leaning against them in a tired way for hours at a stretch.  On hot summer nights the houses
emptied their inhabitants on to the verandas and footpaths. The children, swarming like rabbits,
played in the middle of the road. With clasped hands they formed a ring, and circled joyously
to a song of childland, the immemorial rhymes handed down from one generation to another as
savages preserve tribal rites.  The fresh, shrill voices broke on the air, mingled with silvery
peals of laughter.

  What will you give to know her name,
  Know her name, know her name?
  What will you give to know her name,
  On a cold and frosty morning?

Across the street comes a burst of coarse laughter, and a string of foul, obscene words on
the heels of a jest.  And again the childish trebles would ring on the tainted air:

  Green gravel, green gravel,
  Your true love is dead;
  I send you a message
  To turn round your head.

They are ragged and dirty, true children of the gutter, but Romance, with the cloudy hair and
starry eyes, holds them captive for a few merciful years.  Their parents loll against the walls,
or squat on  the kerbstone, devouring with infinite relish petty scandals about their neighbours,
or shaking with laughter at some spicy yarn.

About ten o'clock the children are driven indoors with threats and blows, and put to bed. 
By eleven the street is quiet, and only gives a last flicker of life when a drunken man comes
swearing down the street, full of beer, and offering to fight anyone for the pleasure of the
thing. By twelve the street is dead, and the tread of the policeman echoes with a forlorn sound
as if he were walking through a cemetery.

As Mrs Yabsley leaned over the gate, Mrs Swadling caught sight of her, and, throwing her apron
over her head, crossed the street, bent on gossip. Then Mrs Jones, who had been watching her
through the window, dropped her mending and hurried out.

The three women stood and talked of the weather, talking for talking's sake as men smoke a
pipe in the intervals of work.  Presently Mrs Yabsley looked hard at Mrs Swadling, who was
shading her head from the sun with her apron.

"Wot's the matter with yer eye?" she said, abruptly.

"Nuthin'," said Mrs Swadling, and coloured.

The eye she was shading was black from a recent blow, a present from her husband, Sam the carter,
who came home for his tea, fighting drunk, as regular as clockwork.

"I thought I 'eard Sam snorin' after tea," said Mrs Jones.

"Yes, 'e was; but 'e woke up about twelve, an'  give me beans 'cause I'd let 'im sleep till
the pubs was shut."

"An' yer laid 'im out wi' the broom-handle, I s'pose?"

"No fear," said Mrs Swadling.  "I ran down the yard, an' 'ollered blue murder."

"Well," said Mrs Yabsley, reflectively, "an 'usband is like the weather, or a wart on yer nose.
It's no use quarrelling with it.  If yer don't like it, yer've got ter lump it.  An' if yer
believe all yer 'ear, everybody else 'as got a worse."

She looked down the street, and saw Jonah and Chook, with a few others of the Push, sunning
themselves in the morning air.  Her face darkened.

"I see the Push 'ave got Jimmy Sinclair at last.  Only six months ago 'e went ter Sunday school
reg'lar, an' butter wouldn't melt in 'is mouth. Well, if smokin' cigarettes, an' spittin',
and swearin' was 'ard work, they'd all die rich men.  There's Waxy Collins.  Last week 'e told
'is father 'e'd 'ave ter keep 'im till 'e was twenty-one 'cause of the law, an' the old fool
believed 'im.  An' little Joe Crutch, as used ter come 'ere beggin' a spoonful of drippin'
fer 'is mother, come 'ome drunk the other night so natural, that 'is mother mistook 'im fer
'is father, an' landed 'im on the ear with 'er fist.  An' 'im the apple of 'er eye, as the
sayin' is.  It's 'ard ter be a mother in Cardigan Street.  Yer girls are mothers before their
bones are set, an' yer sons are dodgin' the p'liceman round the corner before they're in long
trousers."

It was rare for Mrs Yabsley to touch on her private sorrows, and there was an embarrassing
silence.  But suddenly, from the corner of Pitt Street, appeared a strange figure of a man,
roaring out a song in the voice of one selling fish.  Every head turned.

"'Ello," said Mrs Jones, "Froggy's on the job to-day."

The singer was a Frenchman with a wooden leg, dressed as a sailor.  As he hopped slowly down
the street with the aid of a crutch, his grizzled beard and scowling face turned mechanically
to right and left, sweeping the street with threatening eyes that gave him the look of a retired
pirate, begging the tribute that he had taken by force in better days. The song ended abruptly,
and he wiped the sweat from his face with an enormous handkerchief.  Then he began another.

The women were silent, greedily drinking in the strange, foreign sounds, touched for a moment
with the sense of things forlorn and far away. The singer still roared, though the tune was
caressing, languishing, a love song.  But his eyes rolled fiercely, and his moustache seemed
to bristle with anger.

  Le pinson et la fauvette
  Chantaient nos chastes amours,
  Que les oiseaux chantent toujours,
  Pauvre Colinette, pauvre Colinette.

When he reached the women he hopped to the pavement holding out his hat like a collection plate,
with a beseeching air.  The women were embarrassed, grudging the pennies, but afraid of being
thought mean. Mrs Yabsley broke the silence.

"I don't know wot ye're singin' about, an' I  shouldn't like ter meet yer on a dark night,
but I'm always willin' ter patronize the opera, as they say."

She fumbled in her pocket till she found tuppence.  The sailor took the money, rolled his eyes,
gave her a magnificent bow, and continued on his way with a fresh stanza:

  Lorsque nous allions tous deux
  Dans la verdoyante allee,
  Comme elle etait essoufflee,
  Et comme j'etais radieux.

"The more fool you," said Mrs Jones, who was ashamed of having nothing to give.  "I've 'eard
'e's got a terrace of 'ouses, an' thousands in the bank.  My cousin told me 'e sees 'im bankin'
'is money reg'lar in George Street every week."

And then a conversation followed, with instances of immense fortunes made by organ-grinders,
German bands, and street-singers--men who cadged in rags for a living, and could drive their
carriage if they chose.  The women lent a greedy ear to these romances, like a page out of
their favourite novelettes.  They were interrupted by an extraordinary noise from the French
singer, who seemed suddenly to have gone mad.  The Push had watched in ominous silence the
approach of the Frenchman.  But, as he passed them and finished a verse, a blood-curdling cry
rose from the group.  It was a perfect imitation of a dog baying the moon in agony. The singer
stopped and scowled at the group, but the Push seemed to be unaware of his existence.  He moved
on, and began another verse.  As he stopped to take  breath the cry went up again, the agonized
wail of a cur whose feelings are harrowed by music.  The singer stopped, choking with rage,
bewildered by the novelty of the attack.  The Push seemed lost in thought.  Again he turned
to go, when a stone, jerked as if from a catapult, struck him on the shoulder.  As he turned,
roaring like a bull, a piece of blue metal struck him above the eye, cutting the flesh to the
bone.  The blood began to trickle slowly down his cheek.

