THE TRIAL

or

MORE LINKS OF THE DAISY CHAIN

by

CHARLOTTE M. YONGE

CHAPTER I

Quand on veut dessecher un marais, on ne fait pas voter les grenouilles.--Mme. EMILE. DE GIRADIN

'Richard?  That's right!  Here's a tea-cup waiting for you,' as the almost thirty-year-old
Incumbent of Cocksmoor, still looking like a young deacon, entered the room with his quiet
step, and silent greeting to its four inmates.

'Thank you, Ethel.  Is papa gone out?'

'I have not seen him since dinner-time.  You said he was gone out with Dr. Spencer, Aubrey?'

'Yes, I heard Dr. Spencer's voice--"I say, Dick"--like three notes of consternation,' said
Aubrey; 'and off they went.  I fancy there's some illness about in the Lower Pond Buildings,
that Dr. Spencer has been raging so long to get drained.'

'The knell has been ringing for a little child there,' added Mary; 'scarlatina, I believe--'

'But, Richard,' burst forth the merry voice of the youngest, 'you must see our letters from
Edinburgh.'

'You have heard, then?  It was the very thing I came to ask.'

'Oh yes! there were five notes in one cover,' said Gertrude.  'Papa says they are to be laid
up in the family archives, and labelled "The Infants' Honeymoon."'

'Papa is very happy with his own share,' said Ethel.  'It was signed, "Still his own White
Flower," and it had two Calton Hill real daisies in it.   I don't know when I have seen him
more pleased.'

'And Hector's letter--I can say that by heart,' continued Gertrude. '"My dear Father, This
is only to say that she is the darlint, and for the pleasure of subscribing myself--Your loving
SON,"--the son as big as all the rest put together.'

'I tell Blanche that he only took her for the pleasure of being my father's son,' said Aubrey,
in his low lazy voice.

'Well,' said Mary, 'even to the last, I do believe he had as soon drive papa out as walk with
Blanche.  Flora was quite scandalized at it.'

'I should not imagine that George had often driven my father out,' said Aubrey, again looking
lazily up from balancing his spoon.

Ethel laughed; and even Richard smiled; then recovering herself, she said, 'Poor Hector, he
never could call himself son to any one before.'

'He has not been much otherwise here,' said Richard.

'No,' said Ethel; 'it is the peculiar hardship of our weddings to break us up by pairs, and
carry off two instead of one.  Did you ever see me with so shabby a row of tea-cups?  When
shall I have them come in riding double again?'

The recent wedding was the third in the family; the first after a five years' respite.  It
ensued upon an attachment that had grown up with the young people, so that they had been entirely
one with each other; and there had been little of formal demand either of the maiden's affection
or her father's consent; but both had been implied from the first.  The bridegroom was barely
of age, the bride not seventeen, and Dr. May had owned it was very shocking, and told Richard
to say nothing about it!  Hector had coaxed and pleaded, pathetically talked of his great empty
house at Maplewood, and declared that till he might take Blanche away, he would not leave Stoneborough;
he would bring down all sorts of gossip on his courtship, he would worry Ethel, and take care
she finished nobody's education.  What did Blanche want with more education?  She knew enough
for him.  Couldn't Ethel be satisfied with Aubrey and Gertrude? or he dared say she might have
Mary too, if she was insatiable.  If Dr. May was so unnatural as to forbid him to hang about
the house, why, he would take rooms at the Swan.  In fact, as Dr. May observed, he treated
him to a modern red-haired Scotch version of 'Make me a willow cabin at your gate;' and as
he heartily loved Hector and entirely trusted him, and Blanche's pretty head was a wise and
prudent one, what was the use of keeping the poor lad unsettled?

So Mrs. Rivers, the eldest sister and the member's wife, had come to arrange matters and help
Ethel, and a very brilliant wedding it had been.  Blanche was too entirely at home with Hector
for flutterings or agitations, and was too peacefully happy for grief at the separation, which
completed the destiny that she had always seen before her.  She was a picture of a bride; and
when she and Hector hung round the Doctor, insisting that Edinburgh should be the first place
they should visit, and calling forth minute directions for their pilgrimage to the scenes of
his youth, promising to come home and tell him all, no wonder he felt himself rather gaining
a child than losing one.  He was very bright and happy; and no one but Ethel understood how
all the time there was a sensation that the present was but a strange dreamy parody of that
marriage which had been the theme of earlier hopes.

The wedding had taken place shortly after Easter; and immediately after, the Rivers family
had departed for London, and Tom May had returned to Cambridge, leaving the home party at the
minimum of four, since, Cocksmoor Parsonage being complete, Richard had become only a daily
visitor instead of a constant inhabitant.

There he sat, occupying his never idle hands with a net that he kept for such moments, whilst
Ethel sat behind her urn, now giving out its last sighs, profiting by the leisure to read the
county newspaper, while she continually filled up her cup with tea or milk as occasion served,
indifferent to the increasing pallor of the liquid.

Mary, a 'fine young woman,' as George Rivers called her, of blooming face and sweet open expression,
had begun, at Gertrude's entreaty, a game of French billiards.  Gertrude had still her childish
sunny face and bright hair, and even at the trying age of twelve was pleasing, chiefly owing
to the caressing freedom of manner belonging to an unspoilable pet.  Her request to Aubrey
to join the sport had been answered with a half petulant shake of the head, and he flung himself
into his father's chair, his long legs hanging over one arm--an attitude that those who had
ever been under Mrs. May's discipline thought impossible in the drawing-room; but Aubrey was
a rival pet, and with the family characteristics of aquiline features, dark gray eyes, and
beautiful teeth, had an air of fragility and easy languor that showed his exercise of the immunities
of ill-health.  He had been Ethel's pupil till Tom's last year at Eton, when he was sent thither,
and had taken a good place; but his brother's vigilant and tender care could not save him from
an attack on the chest, that settled his public-school education for ever, to his severe mortification,
just when Tom's shower of honours was displaying to him the sweets of emulation and success.
Ethel regained her pupil, and put forth her utmost powers for his benefit, causing Tom to examine
him at each vacation, with adjurations to let her know the instant he discovered that her task
of tuition was getting beyond her.  In truth, Tom fraternally held her cheap, and would have
enjoyed a triumph over her scholarship; but to this he had not attained, and in spite of his
desire to keep his brother in a salutary state of humiliation, candour wrung from him the admission
that, even in verses, Aubrey did as well as other fellows of his standing.

