 'Freedom and
law and established rules have their difficulties,' not perceptible to 'feminine, irritable,
noisy minds, always clamouring and shrieking for protection and guidance.' The end to which
Dickens would really drive us would be 'pure despotism. No debates to worry effeminate understandings,
no laws to prevent judges from deciding according to their own inclination, no forms to prevent
officials from dealing with their neighbours as so many parcels of ticketed goods.'[70]

These utterances show the combination of the old Puritanic leaven, to which all trifling and
levity is hateful, and the strong patriotic sentiment, to which Dickens in one direction and
the politics of Cobden and Bright in the other, appeared as different manifestations of a paltry
and narrow indifference to all the great historic aims of the national life. Now, and to some
degree always, he strongly sympathised with the patriotism represented by Macaulay.

I need only notice at present certain theological implications. The positivists were beginning
to make themselves known, and, for various reasons, were anything but attractive to him. He
denounces a manifesto from Mr. Congreve in January 1857, and again from the patriotic side.
Mr. Congreve had suggested, among other things, the cession of Gibraltar to Spain, in accordance
with his view of international duties. The English nation, exclaims Fitzjames, 'cannot be weighed
and measured, and ticketed, and classified, by a narrow understanding and a cold heart.' The
'honest and noble passions of a single nation would blow all Mr. Congreve's schemes to atoms
like so many cobwebs. England will never be argued out of Gibraltar except by the ultima ratio.'
These doctrines, he thinks, are the fruits of abandoning a belief in theology. 'We, too, have
a positive philosophy, and its fundamental maxim is that it is wise for men and nations to
mind their own business, and do their own duty, and leave the results to God.' The argument
seems to be rather questionable; and perhaps one which follows is not altogether satisfactory,
though both are characteristic. The Indian Mutiny had moved him deeply, and, in an article
called 'Deus Ultionum'[71] he applies one of his doctrines to this case. He holds that a desire
for revenge upon the perpetrators of the atrocities (of which, I may observe, exaggerated accounts
were then accepted) was perfectly legitimate. Revenge, he urges, is an essential part of the
true theory of punishment--a position which he defends by the authority of Bishop Butler. The
only alternative is the theory of simple 'deterrence,' which, as he holds, excludes every moral
element of punishment, and supposes man to be a mere 'bag of appetites.'

I have dwelt upon these utterances, not, of course, to consider their value, or as representing
his permanent conviction, but simply as illustrating a very deeply rooted sentiment.

His work in the 'Saturday Review' did not exhaust all his literary activity. Between 1856 and
1861 he contributed a few articles to the 'Edinburgh Review,' of which I have already mentioned
one. He very naturally turned to the organ in which his father's best-known writings had appeared,
and which still enjoyed a high reputation. I believe that the 'Edinburgh Review' still acted
upon the precedent set by Jeffrey, according to which a contributor, especially, of course,
a young contributor, was regarded as supplying raw material which might be rather arbitrarily
altered by the editor. I express no opinion as to the wisdom of that course; but I think that,
as a matter of fact, it alienated this contributor in particular. Meanwhile, the father in
whose steps he was treading was constantly giving him advice or taking counsel with him during
these years. He praised warmly, but with discrimination.