Our attention has been drawn to the above passage in Captain Skinner's work, by its ready illustration
of the views and conclusions of the late Dr. Knox, in his invaluable Spirit of Despotism, Section
2, "Oriental manners, and the ideas imbibed in youth, both in the East and West Indies, favourable
to the spirit of despotism." How forcibly applicable, on the present occasion, is the following
extract:--"from the intercourse of England with the East and West Indies, it is to be feared
that something of a more servile spirit has been derived than was known among those who established
the free constitutions of Europe, and than would have been adopted, or patiently borne, in
ages of virtuous simplicity. A very numerous part of our countrymen spend their most susceptible
age in those countries, where despotic manners remarkably prevail. They are themselves, when
invested with office, treated by the natives with an idolatrous degree of reverence, which
teaches them to expect a similar submission to their will, on their return to their own country.
They have been accustomed to look up to personages greatly their superiors in rank and riches,
with awe; and to look down on their inferiors in property with supreme contempt, as slaves
of their will and ministers of their luxury. Equal laws and equal liberty at home appear to
them saucy claims of the poor and the vulgar, which tend to divest riches of one of the greatest
charms, over-bearing dominion. We do, indeed, import gorgeous silks and luscious sweets from
the Indies, but we import, at the same time, the spirit of despotism, which adds deformity
to the purple robe, and bitterness to the honied beverage." "That Oriental manners are unfavourable
to liberty, is, I believe, universally conceded. The natives of the East Indies entertain not
the idea of independence. They treat the Europeans, who go among them to acquire their riches,
with a respect similar to the abject submission which they pay to their native despots. Young
men, who in England scarcely possessed the rank of the gentry, are waited upon in India, with
more attentive servility than is paid or required in many courts of Europe. Kings of England
seldom assume the state enjoyed by an East India governor, or even by subordinate officers.
Enriched at an early age, the adventurer returns to England. His property admits him to the
higher circles of fashionable life. He aims at rivalling or excelling all the old nobility
in the splendour of his mansions, the finery of his carriages, the number of his liveried train,
the profusion of his tables, in every unmanly indulgence which an empty vanity can covet, and
a full purse procure. Such a man, when he looks from the window of his superb mansion, and
sees the people pass, cannot endure the idea, that they are of as much consequence as himself
in the eye of the law; and that he dares not insult or oppress the unfortunate being who rakes
his kennel or sweeps his chimney."

       *       *       *       *       *

FALL OF ROBESPIERRE.

It is well known, that during the revolutionary troubles of France, not only all the churches
were closed, but the Catholic and Protestant worship entirely forbidden; and, after the constitution
of 1795, it was at the hazard of one's life that either the mass was heard, or any religious
duty performed. It is evident that Robespierre, who unquestionably had a design which is now
generally understood, was desirous, on the day of the fête of the Supreme Being, to bring back
public opinion to the worship of the Deity. Eight months before, we had seen the Bishop of
Paris, accompanied by his clergy, appear voluntarily at the bar of the Convention, to abjure
the Christian faith and the Catholic religion. But it is not as generally known, that at that
period Robespierre was not omnipotent, and could not carry his desires into effect. Numerous
factions then disputed with him the supreme authority. It was not till the end of 1793, and
the beginning of 1794, that his power was so completely established that he could venture to
act up to his intentions.

Robespierre was then desirous to establish the worship of the Supreme Being, and the belief
of the immortality of the soul. He felt that irreligion is the soul of anarchy, and it was
not anarchy but despotism which he desired; and yet the very day after that magnificent fête
in honour of the Supreme Being, a man of the highest celebrity in science, and as distinguished
for virtue and probity as philosophic genius, Lavoisier, was led out to the scaffold. On the
day following that, Madame Elizabeth, that Princess whom the executioners could not guillotine,
till they had turned aside their eyes from the sight of her angelic visage, stained the same
axe with her blood!--And a month after, Robespierre, who wished to restore order for his own
purposes--who wished to still the bloody waves which for years had inundated the state, felt
that all his efforts would be in vain if the masses who supported his power were not restrained
and directed, because without order nothing but ravages and destruction can prevail. To ensure
the government of the masses, it was indispensable that morality, religion, and belief should
be established--and, to affect the multitude, that religion should be clothed in external forms.
"My friend," said Voltaire, to the atheist Damilaville, "after you have supped on well-dressed
partridges, drunk your sparkling champaigne, and slept on cushions of down in the arms of your
mistress, I have no fear of you, though you do not believe in God.---But if you are perishing
of hunger, and I meet you in the corner of a wood, I would rather dispense with your company."
But when Robespierre wished to bring back to something like discipline the crew of the vessel
which was fast driving on the breakers, he found the thing was not so easy as he imagined.
To destroy is easy--to rebuild is the difficulty. He was omnipotent to do evil; but the day
that he gave the first sign of a disposition to return to order, the hands which he himself
had stained with blood, marked his forehead with the fatal sign of destruction.

--Memoirs of the Duchess of Abrantes.

       *       *       *       *       *

SOUNDS DURING THE NIGHT.

The great audibility of sounds during the night is a phenomenon of considerable interest, and
one which had been observed even by the ancients. In crowded cities or in their vicinity, the
effect was generally ascribed to the rest of animated beings, while in localities where such
an explanation was inapplicable, it was supposed to arise from a favourable direction of the
prevailing wind. Baron Humboldt was particularly struck with this phenomenon when he first
heard the rushing of the great cataracts of the Orinoco in the plain which surrounds the mission
of the Apures. These sounds he regarded as three times louder during the night than during
the day. Some authors ascribed this fact to the cessation of the humming of insects, the singing
of birds, and the action of the wind on the leaves of the trees, but M. Humboldt justly maintains
that this cannot be the cause of it on the Orinoco, where the buzz of insects is much louder
in the night than in the day, and where the breeze never rises till after sunset. Hence he
was led to ascribe the phenomenon to the perfect transparency and uniform density of the air,
which can exist only at night after the heat of the ground has been uniformly diffused through
the atmosphere. When the rays of the sun have been beating on the ground during the day, currents
of hot air of different temperatures, and consequently of different densities, are constantly
ascending from the ground and mixing with the cold air above. The air thus ceases to be a homogeneous
medium, and every person must have observed the effects of it upon objects seen through it
which are very indistinctly visible, and have a tremulous motion, as if they were "dancing
in the air." The very same effect is perceived when we look at objects through spirits and
water that are not perfectly mixed, or when we view distant objects over a red hot poker or
over a flame. In all these cases the light suffers refraction in passing from a medium of one
density into a medium of a different density, and the refracted rays are constantly changing
their direction as the different currents rise in succession. Analogous effects are produced
when sound passes through a mixed medium, whether it consists of two different mediums or of
one medium where portions of it have different densities. As sound moves with different velocities
through media of different densities, the wave which produces the sound will be partly reflected
in passing from one medium to the other, and the direction of the transmitted wave changed;
and hence in passing through such media different portions of the wave will reach the ear at
different times, and thus destroy the sharpness and distinctness of the sound. This may be
proved by many striking facts. If we put a bell in a receiver containing a mixture of hydrogen
gas and atmospheric air, the sound of the bell can scarcely be heard. During a shower of rain
or of snow, noises are greatly deadened, and when sound is transmitted along an iron wire or
an iron pipe of sufficient length, we actually hear two sounds, one transmitted more rapidly
through the solid, and the other more slowly through the air. The same property is well illustrated
by an elegant and easily repeated experiment of Chladni's. When sparkling champagne is poured
into a tall glass till it is half full, the glass loses its power of ringing by a stroke upon
its edge, and emits only a disagreeable and a puffy sound. This effect will continue while
the wine is filled with bubbles of air, or as long as the effervescence lasts; but when the
effervescence begins to subside, the sound becomes clearer and clearer, and the glass rings
as usual when the air-bubbles have vanished. If we reproduce the effervescence by stirring
the champagne with a piece of bread the glass will again cease to ring. The same experiment
will succeed with other effervescing fluids.--Sir David Brewster.

       *       *       *       *       *

No man is so insignificant as to be sure his example can do no hurt.

--Lord Clarendon.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

PADDY FOOSHANE'S FRICASSEE.

