  Ah, well, let's hope when Peace at length
    Is here, and when our young plantations
  In days unborn have got the strength
    And pride of ancient generations,
      The red birds shall show there
        From tree to dark tree,
      If two folk should go there
        As friendly as we!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

BELLAIRS ON MAN-POWER.

MR. BELLAIRS, it will be remembered, was the first to discover the possibilities of proving
(by figures) the dwindling reserves of hostile man-power. His estimates, based upon pure reason,
personal experience and some two tons of figures, have been carefully revised and brought to
date, more especially for the benefit of those busy people who cannot take a holiday by the
sea, but like to solace themselves at home with a weekly immersion in Mud and Water.

Germany.

Here Mr. BELLAIRS is the first to admit a slight inaccuracy in his previous calculations. Germany
has now eight men, instead of four, on the Western Front. It would appear from these numbers
that the enemy attaches greater importance to defending his line on this Front than on any other.

Russia.

There are five (and one in reserve) on the Russian Front. The Russian retreat is explained
to be due to artfully inculcated Christian Science (made in Germany), which has persuaded the
Russians to entertain the belief that they are being heavily attacked.

Austria.

Austria is reputed on her last legs (three altogether). Her one man and a boy are fighting
with the nonchalance of despair to resist the Allied pressure. Good news may be expected from
this Front shortly.

Bulgaria.

The warfare of attrition has never shown such excellent results as in the case of Bulgaria.
Her army of trained goats is now the only barrier to the vengeance of the Serbs.

Turkey.

According to the latest report the Turkish Army has lost its rifle. It is hoped that every
advantage will be taken of our momentary superior armament.

China.

As a last resort Germany is sending her remaining Hun to attack the Chinese. What they can
hope to achieve by so prodigal a waste of "cannon-fodder" is difficult to see.

Rumania.

There is no news on the Rumanian Front. It is thought that there is nobody there.

Palestine.

In Palestine both sides have withdrawn their troops and the battle is proceeding without them.

When one realises that against these weakening and ever decreasing forces our Allies will still
have a reserve of 80,000,000 by the Spring of 1925, it is impossible to take an otherwise than
optimistic view of the situation.

       *       *       *       *       *

INTENSIVE RAINFALL.

    "CUMBERLAND and WESTMORELAND.--After a ten weeks' drought
    we have had three weeks' rain every day."--Daily Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Officer's camp kit wanted, in good condition, Sam Browne
    belt (5 ft. 7), haversack, &c."--Scotsman.

In readiness for this hero's arrival at the Front the communication-trenches are being specially
widened.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I WISH--

    "That it were possible to get frying-pans that would stand
    LEVEL when one is cooking in them."--Home Chat.

It is so awkward to be tilted out of the frying-pan into the fire.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GREAT OFFENCE.

As everybody knows, a Gurkha is first of all a rifleman, but apart from his rifle (which to
a hill-man is both meat and raiment) there are two other treasures very dear to the little
man's heart. These are his kukri and his umbrella--symbols of war and peace; and, although
he knows the weapon proper to each state and can dispense (none better) with superfluities,
there must have been many times in France when the absence of his umbrella has caused him a
bitter nostalgia. "Battle is blessed by Allah and no man tires thereof," but trenches are of
the Shaitan, and from the same malevolent one comes the ever-raging bursat, the pitiless drenching
rain, that falls where a man may not strip.

With his kukri he did wonders out there on stilly nights, when he wriggled "over the top,"
gripping its good blade in his teeth. Then No Man's Land became a jungle and the Bosch a beast
whose dispatch was swift and sure under his cunning wrist. Dawn would find him squatting in
the corner of his dug-out sleeping as one who has sweet dreams--dreams maybe of counting the
decapitated before an admiring crowd in his native city, himself again the dapper young dog
of Darrapore.

No kilted Jock goes with more swagger down Princes Street than Johnny Gurkha down the bazaar
of Darrapore, particularly in the evening, when he doffs khaki for the mufti suit of his clan--the
spotless white shorts, coat of black sateen, little cocked cap and brightly bordered stockings--a
mode de rigueur that would be robbed of its final cachet without the black umbrella, tucked
well up under the arm.

A splendid warrior; in private life a bit of a Don Juan, perhaps; but his womenfolk bear him
no grudge on this score, liking themselves to sail easy through matrimonial seas.

When I returned to the depôt a month ago there were tales, but, as our old Subadar-Major observed,
"War brought little disturbances. The mischief was unfortunate, perhaps, but not irremediable,"
and, as the Subadar had himself been on service in China for a matter of three years, he knew
what he was talking about.

As for the tales, well, I was reminded of them a few days ago on making a tour of the lines
to see that quarters were clean and habitable for the next batch of invalids. There would be
hospital for some, for others the sunny little married quarters, and round there wives were
bustling with glee, making no secret of their late coquetries, but manifestly glad of the return
of their former lords.

Brass pots were being scoured in the doorways; babies sprawled in the sun; a smell of cooking
sweetmeats filled the air; a band of small urchins in the roadway, wearing the sham accoutrements
of war, was prancing blithely to the song of "Lang-taraf-Tippalaerlee," and as their leader
pulled up to give me a grave and perfect salute I recognised the son of old Bahadur Rai.

Now Bahadur Rai would be returning, and, as I recalled the man, I wondered how he would take
the news of Bibi, his capricious wife, for I had heard (unofficially) that she had no intention
of leaving the lines of the 2nd Battalion, or the dashing young Naik Indrase. This might be
a bit awkward, I mused, remembering the tough little chap who had been so popular with us all
by reason of being the best shikari in the regiment. His incorrigible love of sport may have
made the defaulter's sheet ugly (and there's no denying that "Absent with leave" does not lead
to quick promotion); but that was in the good old days. Now he was returning covered with glory,
and I was sorry about Bibi.

The train arrived at noon with what our travelled Babu calls the "blissies." They were nearly
all marked "P.D.", and I hope it may be given to me to look as cheerful when my turn comes
to be Permanently Disabled.

It was worth a week's pay to see the grins on their brown puckered faces and hear their husky
contented salaams as they were lifted from the train. Blankets, top-coats, pillows, and other
items belonging to the State were gaily abandoned, but every man clung with tenacity to his
tunic and his water-bottle, for was there not a collection of trophies in those bulging pockets
and sea-water in those battered bottles? Real salt sea-water, for the taste and enlightenment
of incredulous elders.

Outside the station the usual crowd had gathered, where it disported itself like a herd of
wild elephants. Veteran bandsmen played the regimental march; casual minstrels blew conches
or banged tom-toms; and when at last the ambulance waggons moved off, drawn by oxen that wore
blue bead necklaces, and marigolds over their ears, one had the proud satisfaction of feeling
that the most perfect organisation in the world could not have given our fine fellows a reception
more after their own hearts.

When we reached the parade-ground the scene was still merry and bright, for there Gurkha ladies
were massed in their many-coloured saris, chattering for all the world like the parrakeets
they resembled. Dogs barked; pet names were squealed; old men waved their staffs; children
clung to the waggons and whooped, and when the cortège finally turned into the hospital compound
and I cantered back to the lines I wondered what a London bobby would have made of the heterogeneous
traffic that littered the Darrapore Road. I had to sit tight in office to get level with work
that evening, and the mess bugle was dwelling maliciously on its top note when at last I put
down my pen.

Then the door opened and with a confederate mysterious air the orderly announced Bahadur Rai.
(Heavens!)

"And the Sahib?" the Bahadur was asking in swift Nepalese after a wealth of salutations was
over. "Can but one arm do all this?" waving towards my bulging files.

"One does not want two hands to write with, you know, Bahadur."

"True. But the shooting?" he added sadly.

"We'll have that again too some day. Great things are done in Vilayat, where I go when peace
comes. And you? You have done well, Bahadur."

"Well enough," he admitted with a trace of pride, Then, after a pause, "The 2nd Battalion starts
on service to-morrow, Sahib?"

"Yes. A few men will be left at the depôt--not those of any use."

"And Naik Indrase, does he go?"

"No. The Colonel-Sahib put his name down long ago for station duty."

"Then I desire leave, your Honour. I want to visit 2nd Battalion lines."

"Ah! Put it off a bit," I urged weakly. "It's rough getting across the nullah, and with that
crutch--"

There was silence. "Your son?" I began irrelevantly.

"My son does well and grows fast, Allah be praised. Later he will come to the hills to learn
the ways of a gun. Even now he has the heart of a lion," added the proud father with a return
of the old twinkle in his eyes. "But of this other matter. Perhaps the Sahib has heard what
the Naik has done?"

"Yes," I admitted reluctantly. "I visited your house this morning. All was in order, and I
gave instructions about the roof, which--"

"It is already repaired," interrupted the old fellow quickly, "and my mother has arranged all
things well within. But the Naik, Sahib. It is necessary that I should beat him. The Sahib
has heard--"

"About Bibi? Yes. But he will give her up," I said confidently.

"Bibi? He can keep Bibi. She was ever swift with her tongue and liked not the ways of shikaris.
Yes, he can keep Bibi," added Bahadur Rai without bitterness. "But, Sahib"--and here the little
man's voice rose almost to a scream of indignation--"that was not the worst. The Naik must
be beaten, and well beaten, for he took, not Bibi alone--he took my umbrella!"

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

PROPAGANDA FRIGHTFULNESS.

(It is reported that the German Minister to Patagonia, with the assistance of the Swedish Chargé
d'Affaires, has caused the following Proclamation to be distributed, along with a translation
into the vernacular, among the natives; alleging that it reproduces a leaflet composed by the
ALL-HIGHEST and dropped from a German aeroplane over the London district.)

This is a know-making to my Britisch Underthanes addressed. Be it known that from to-day on
the Britisch Empire my Empire is, and all Britisch Men, Fraus and Childer are Germans. The
folgende are now rules:--

(1) I make all Laws alone and nobody with me interfere must.

(2) When a Man or Frau or Child a mile from me laughs it is as when into my All-Highest Face
gelaughed is and the Strafe shall the Death be.

(3) Who me sees shall flat on the Earth fall and shall him there until I my gracious Hand wave
keep.

(4) The German Sprache shall the Britisch Folk's Sprache be and every Englisch Man who German
not sprech kann shall with a by-Proclamation-to-be-declared-Strafe gestrafed be.

(5) German at the Table Manners shall by all Britisch Childer gelernt be.

(6) Everyone shall German Soldiers salute. If any one misses this to do shall the Soldier the
Right have him through the body with a sword to run.

(7) Only German Cigars and Tabak shall gesmokt be.

(8) The Newspapers shall every day print an Artikel me for my good Heart, my Genius and my
Condescension praising.

(9) It shall a Picture of me in every House be.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE PLAY.

"THE YELLOW TICKET."

If Mr. MICHAEL MORTON doesn't mind my not taking his original play too seriously I don't mind
telling him how much I enjoyed it. It is quite a neat example of the shocker--an agreeable
form of entertainment for the simple and the jaded. The chief properties are a yellow ticket
and a hat-pin. Both belong to the innocent and beautiful Jewish heroine, Anna Mirol.

It appears that she wanted to leave the pale to go to see her dying father in Petersburg, and
the police, who will have their grim joke against a Jewess, offer her "the most powerful passport
in Russia"--the yellow ticket of Rahab. She accepts it desperately, and, to escape its horrible
obligations, enters an English family as governess, under an assumed name. Here the head of
the sinister Okhrana (Secret Police Bureau), a sleek red-haired sensualist, Baron Stepan Andreyeff,
and a chivalrous but tactless English journalist, Julian Rolfe, become acquainted with her.
The latter wishes to marry her; the former's intentions are strictly dishonourable, and with
the aid of his ubiquitous secret policemen he persecutes her, using his power to set her free
from the attentions of his detestable minions for bargaining purposes in a perfectly Hunnish
manner. Discreet servants, locked doors, champagne, a perfectly priceless dressing jacket,
a sliding panel disclosing a luxuriously appointed bedroom--all these resources are at his
disposal.

But he reckons without her hatpin, which in the course of his deplorably abrupt attempts at
seduction she pushes adroitly into his heart, and next day well-informed St. Petersburg winks
discreetly when it learns that the Baron has died after an operation for appendicitis.

How that nice young man, Julian, is more than a match for the forthright methods of the Okhrana
is for you to go and find out.

Mr. ALLAN AYNESWORTH'S finished skill was reinforced by a quite admirable make-up, though only
a policeman of very melodrama could have missed that brilliant pate as it shone balefully over
the inadequate chair in which he sat concealed while his subordinate was bullying the hapless
Anna. Also I doubt whether so stout a ruffian would have succumbed so promptly to such a simple
pin-prick. But perhaps the surprise, annoyance and keen disappointment broke his soldierly
heart. Anyway, living or dying, the Baron was a clever and plausible performance.

You know Mr. WONTNER'S loose-limbed ease of manner and agreeable voice. He was rather a stock
and stockish hero as he left the author's hands, but Mr. WONTNER put life and feeling into
him. Miss GLADYS COOPER reached no heights or depths of passion, but took a pleasant middle
way, and certainly gets more out of herself than once seemed likely. I should like to commend
to her the excellent doctrine of the "dominant mood." She was, for instance, just a little
too detached in the recital of that story when playing for time by the bad Baron's fireside.

Mr. SYDNEY VALENTINE, having happily come by an early death in another theatre, is able to
present us a lifelike portrait of a really remorseless policeman in our third Act, condemning
folk to Siberia with all the arbitrary despatch of the Red Queen.

On the whole, then, distinctly good of its kind--transpontine matter with the St. James's form.

T.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR SOUVENIR UNIT.

"No," said the Canadian slowly, "organization isn't everything. Up to a certain point it's
necessary, but there must be a latitude. Give me scope for initiative every time.

"Take an instance. You know our regiments have runners, men who go to and fro carrying orders
and making liaison along the line. In the regiment I'm telling you about the runners were two
smart chaps--drummers they were before the War--and not having too much work with their errands
they ran a few side lines of their own, such as shaving and hair-cutting, cobbling and the
like. But of all their side lines souvenir-selling was the most profitable. In their capacity
of runners they could go where they liked and accompany any of the attacking parties, so they
had good chances for souvenirs.

"One evening they went over into D Company's trench and said, 'Say, you fellows, anybody want
souvenirs? Bert's ordered an attack for daybreak. A, B, and C Companies carry it out. You're
not going. I expect we shall be doing a nice line in tin hats. Any orders? Helmet for you?
Right, that'll be twenty francs, cash on delivery. Bosch rifle? Yes, if we get any, fifty francs.
Bandoliers, same price. What's that? Iron Cross? Oh, not likely! But we'll do our best. A hundred
francs if we deliver the goods.'

"Well, the next day the attack was made, and at one end of a Bosch trench there was some pretty
hand-to-hand work. An old Rittmeister held it, his breast covered with decorations, and he
just wouldn't give in. Of course, so long as he stuck it the other Bosches did too, and there
was nothing doing in the Kamerad line. They fought like fury. So did our men, but we were slightly
outnumbered, and it soon began to be evident that we should have to retire if we didn't get
reinforcements. But, just when things were looking hopeless, over the top of the parapet leaped
the two runners, unarmed but irresistible. With blazing eyes they flung themselves on that
old Rittmeister, and while one of them downed him with a blow under the chin we heard the voice
of the other uplifted in a new slogan: 'Give over, will you, old turnip-head! You've got the
goods, and, by Sam Hill, we mean to have 'em!' And with one hand he held the prisoner down
while with the other he tore the Iron Cross from his tunic.

"After the Bosch officer's fall our men made short work of the rest, but the runners didn't
wait for victory. There was a muttered counting of the spoils: 'Six helmets for D Company.
Two Bosch rifles. One bandolier. And the Iron Cross. That's the lot. We'd better git.' And
they got."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The two British Colossuses, The Tribune says, opened fire
    with their 300 five-millimetres guns."--The Post (Dundee.)

This is the first we have heard of the new naval pea-shooter.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The war aims to which Germany and Austria must give assent must
    be expressed in unequivocal language and based on the principles
    of jujsjtjicjejjjjji."--Evening Echo (Cork).

We are not quite sure whether our spirited contemporary refers to justice or ju-jitsu; but,
either way, it means to give the Huns a knock-out.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "For British and Oversea soldiers and sailors who visit Paris a
    club is to be opened at the Hotel Moderne, Place de la République.

    "The British Ambassador, Sir Douglas Haig, Sir John Jellicoe, and
    Sir William Robertson have become patrons of the club, which will
    provide them with comfortable quarters and meals at reasonable
    prices, supply guides, and generally fulfil a useful purpose."

    Evening Standard.

But surely the British Ambassador has already fairly comfortable quarters in the Rue Faubourg
St. Honoré.

       *       *       *       *       *

SMALL CRAFT.

  When Drake sailed out from Devon to break King PHILIP'S pride,
  He had great ships at his bidding and little ones beside;
  Revenge was there, and Lion, and others known to fame,
  And likewise he had small craft, which hadn't any name.

  Small craft--small craft, to harry and to flout 'em!
  Small craft--small craft, you cannot do without 'em!
  Their deeds are unrecorded, their names are never seen,
  But we know that there were small craft, because there must have been.

  When NELSON was blockading for three long years and more,
  With many a bluff first-rater and oaken seventy-four,
  To share the fun and fighting, the good chance and the bad,
  Oh, he had also small craft, because he must have had.

  Upon the skirts of battle, from Sluys to Trafalgar,
  We know that there were small craft, because there always are;
  Yacht, sweeper, sloop and drifter, to-day as yesterday,
  The big ships fight the battles, but the small craft clear the way.

  They scout before the squadrons when mighty fleets engage;
  They glean War's dreadful harvest when the fight has ceased to rage;
  Too great they count no hazard, no task beyond their power,
  And merchantmen bless small craft a hundred times an hour.

  In Admirals' despatches their names are seldom heard;
  They justify their being by more than written word;
  In battle, toil and tempest and dangers manifold
  The doughty deeds of small craft will never all be told.

  Scant ease and scantier leisure--they take no heed of these,
  For men lie hard in small craft when storm is on the seas;
  A long watch and a weary, from dawn to set of sun--
  The men who serve in small craft, their work is never done.

  And if, as chance may have it, some bitter day they lie
  Out-classed, out-gunned, out-numbered, with nought to do but die,
  When the last gun's out of action, good-bye to ship and crew,
  But men die hard in small craft, as they will always do.

  Oh, death comes once to each man, and the game it pays for all,
  And duty is but duty in great ship and in small,
  And it will not vex their slumbers or make less sweet their rest,
  Though there's never a big black headline for small craft going west.

  Great ships and mighty captains--to these their meed of praise
  For patience, skill and daring and loud victorious days;
  To every man his portion, as is both right and fair,
  But oh! forget not small craft, for they have done their share.

  Small craft--small craft, from Scapa Flow to Dover,
  Small craft--small craft, all the wide world over,
  At risk of war and shipwreck, torpedo, mine and shell,
  All honour be to small craft, for oh, they've earned it well!

  C.F.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks.)

The opening paragraph of Mr. JEFFERY FARNOL'S latest novel, The Definite Object (LOW, MARSTON),
informs us that in the writing of books two things are essential: to know "when and where to
leave off ... and where to begin." Perhaps without churlishness I might add a third, and suggest
that it is equally important to know where to make your market. Mr. FARNOL, very wisely, plumps
for America; and the new story is a thing of millionaires, crooks, graft and the like. But
don't go supposing for one moment that these regrettable surroundings have in the smallest
degree impaired the exquisite and waxen bloom of our author's sympathetic characters. Far from
it. Of the young and oh-so-good-looking millionaire (weary of pleasures and palaces, too weary
even to dismiss his preposterous and farcical butler--lacking, in effect, the definite object);
of the heroine's young brother, crook in embryo, but reclaimable by influence of hero; and
of the peach-like leading lady herself, I can only say that each is worthy of the rest, and
all of a creator who must surely (I like to think) have laughed more than once behind his hand
during the progress of their creation. I expect by now that I have as good as told you the
plot--young brother caught burgling hero's flat; hero, intrigued by mention of sister, doffing
his society trappings, following his captive to crook-land, bashing the wicked inhabitants
with his heroic fists, and finally, of course, wedding the sister. So there you are! No, I
am wrong. The wedding is not absolute finality, since the heroine (for family pride, she said,
because her brother had tried to shoot her husband; but, as this reason is manifestly idiotic,
I must suppose her to be acting on a hint from Mr. FARNOL'S publishers) decreed their union
to be in name alone. Which provides for the extra chapters.

       ***

Have you ever imagined yourself plunged (bodily, not mentally) into the midst of a story by
some particular author? If, for example, you could get inside the covers of a Mrs. ALFRED SIDGWICK
novel, what would you expect to find? Probably a large and pleasantly impecunious family, with
one special daughter who combines great practical sense with rare personal charm. You would
certainly not be startled to find her brought into contact with persons of greater social importance
than her own; and you would be excusably disappointed if she did not end by securing the most
eligible young male in the cast. I feel bound to add that a perusal of Anne Lulworth (METHUEN)
has left me with these convictions more firmly established than ever. The Lulworth household,
from the twins to the practical mother, is Sidgwickian to its core, though perhaps one can't
but regret that the Great Unmasking has for ever robbed them of the society of those fat and
seemingly kindly Teutons who used to provide such good contrast. The Lulworths lived at Putney,
and never had quite enough money for the varied calls of clothes and education and sausages
for breakfast. Then Anne went on a visit to ever such a delightful big house in Cornwall, and
there met the only son ... But then came the War and he was reported missing, so Anne stayed
on indefinitely with his widowed mother; and the unpleasant next-of-kin (Mrs. SIDGWICK never
can wholly resist the temptation of burlesquing her villains) refused to believe that she had
ever been engaged to Victor, and indeed went on indulging their low-comedy spleen till the
great moment, so long and confidently expected, when--But really I suppose I needn't say what
happens then. Sidgwickiana, in short, seasonable at all times, and sufficient for any number
of persons.

       ***

Mrs. A.M. DIXON began her work in October, 1915, as manager of one of the Cantines des Dames
Anglaises established in France under the ægis of the London Committee of the French Red Cross.
She remained until the beginning of July in the following year, and in The Canteeners (MURRAY)
she gives an account of her experiences at Troyes, Héricourt and Le Bourget, where she and
her helpers ministered to an almost unceasing stream of tired-out French soldiers. There is
something remarkably fresh and attractive about this story. It does not aim at fine writing,
but its very simplicity, which is that of letters written to an intimate friend, carries a
reader along through a succession of incidents keenly observed and sympathetically noted in
the scanty leisure of a very busy life. That she succeeded as she did is a high tribute to
her kindness and tact as well as to her organising capacity, I cannot forbear quoting from
the letter of a grateful poilu: "DEAR MISS,--I am arrived yesterday very much fatiguated. After
36 o'clocks of train we have made 15 kms. You can think then that has been very dur for us,
because in the train we don't sleep many ... We go to tranchées six o'clocks a day and all
the four days we go the night. I don't see other things to say you for the moment. Don't make
attention of my mistakes, please." The book is well illustrated with photographs. I recommend
it both on account of its intrinsic merits and because the author's profits are to be given
to the London Committee of the French Red Cross.

       ***

When a penniless but oh, so ladylike "companion" goes to the Savoy in answer to a "with a view
to matrimony" advertisement, what more natural than that the party of the first part should
prove to be--not a genteel widower in the haberdashery business, but a handsome super-burglar
of immense wealth and all the more refined virtues. True, he burgles, but his manly willingness
to reform in order to please the lady shows that his heart was always in the right place, wherever
his fingers might be. Then again the actual pillage occurs "off," as they say, and the gentlemanly
burglar, while not "occupied in burgling," walks the stage a perfect Sir George Alexander of
respectability. Do I hear you, gentle reader, exclaiming, like the Scotsman when he first saw
a hippopotamus, "Hoots! There's nae sic a animal!" It is simply your ignorance. The joint authors
of This Woman to this Man (METHUEN) have selected him as the hero of their latest novel, so
there he is. His combined annexation of the penniless beauty's hand and her titled relatives'
objets d'art, her discovery that the splendid fellow she has idolised--it must be admitted,
without any indiscreet investigation of his past--is a thief, and their final reconciliation
in the rude but honest atmosphere of a New Mexico cattle ranch, are all included in the modest
half-crown's worth that C.N. and A.M. WILLIAMSON put forward as their latest effort. And nowadays
you can't buy much of anything for half-a-crown.

       ***

With commendable idealism Mr. SIDNEY PATERNOSTER considers The Great Gift (LANE) to be Love,
and brings a certain seriousness to bear upon his theme. Hugh Standish, ex-newsboy, is at the
age of twenty-five partner of an important shipping firm, as well as large holder in a book-selling
business, which, in his leisure, he has so successfully run that it is "floated with a capital
of £100,000 and over-subscribed" (incidentally rejoice, ye novelists!). At forty-six he is
the whole shipping firm and a Cabinet Minister to boot. I would ask Mr. PATERNOSTER if such
a man, who has, ex hypothesi, been so busy that he needs the sight of an out-of-work being
tended and caressed by his faithful wife in a London Park to suggest to him that there exists
such a thing as Love, with a capital L; needs also a later conversation with the same out-of-work
to convince him that there is really something the matter with the industrial system (and wouldn't
it be a good idea to do something about it now one is a Cabinet Minister?)--I ask Mr. PATERNOSTER,
I say, if this is the sort of man to take it all so sweetly when the girl of his choice prefers
his cousin and secretary to him? I think not. Our author has woven his story without any reference
to the play of circumstance upon his characters. I am afraid he has shirked the difficult labour
of artistic plausibility, and I leave it to moralists to decide whether his excellent intentions
and sentiments redeem this æsthetic offence.

       ***

Weird o' the Pool (MURRAY) may be described as a subterranean book. I mean that its characters
are frequently to be found in secret passages and caves and places unknown to law-abiding citizens.
The scenes of this story of incident are laid in Scotland at the beginning of last century,
and Mr. ALEXANDER STUART makes things move at such a pace that for a hundred pages or so I
could not keep up with him. Then two kind ladies had a conversation, and the confusion which
had invaded my mind was suddenly and completely cleared away. The pace after this dispersal
is as brisk as ever, but it is quite easy to keep up with it. All the same, I cannot help thinking
that Mr. STUART has overcrowded his canvas, and that his tale would be the better for the removal
of a few of his plotters and counter-plotters from it. I have never yet said a good word for
a synopsis, but I do not mind admitting that I could put up with one here.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

SUGGESTED BY THE KAISER-TSAR REVELATIONS.

  Willy-Nilly. Willingly or unwillingly.
  Willy-Nikky. Of malice aforethought.