The room was swaying in long undulations, or was it my head? I lay helpless, unable to move.
A leg dangled uselessly. There was a bump, the sound of scraping. I heard confused sounds penetrating
the walls, and the jar of steady impacts.

A half an hour passed so; maybe an hour: I had no means of telling. I was weak from pain and
loss of blood, and slightly delirious.

A faint whirring noise, a sudden intensity in the illumination caused me to turn my head. The
steel shutter was glowing red, then a shower of white sparks broke through. The heavy steel
was melting away into incandescence. It crashed.

A group of men stumbled cautiously in. Now I was sure I was delirious. For the men wore khaki
uniforms! Americans! Then, in my fever, I thought I heard a familiar voice cry out my name.
It was Jim's voice. A roaring curtain of blackness shut down on me.

       *       *       *       *       *

When I awoke again I was lying in a clean-sheeted hospital bed. Jim was sitting at the side,
staring at me with gloomy eyes.

"Hello, Jim," I gasped weakly. "How did I get here?"

It was touching to see the instantaneous delight on his weathered countenance.

"So you came to at last, you old son-of-a-gun! Thought you were cashing in on us for a while.
How did you get here? That's just what I want to know. How in hell did you get here?"

I was still pretty weak. "You pulled me out. What happened?"

"We're still trying to puzzle it out. Wouldn't be surprised if you had a hand in it, you blighter.
We were watching that damned cloud, worrying ourselves to death. What with the New York going
out like a light, and not hearing anything from you, we were pretty low.

"Then, suddenly, there was a tremendous detonation. The whole cloud mass collapsed like a pricked
bubble, and a bottomless pit yawned underneath the ocean--and, next thing we knew, our raft
was yanked from under our feet, plunging and bucking in a swirl of waters.

"I just had time to grab hold of a stanchion, when we were sucked down into a whirlpool such
as I never hope to see again. Round and round we spun, the tumbling waters mountain high above
us. I was buried most of the time in crashing billows; my arms were almost pulled out of their
sockets.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I never expected to see daylight again," Jim went on. "My hold was being broken when at last
we were spewed out somehow onto a sea that looked as if a thousand hurricanes were blowing down.

"I managed to get my men together--what was left of them. There were pitifully few. Later,
I heard that our losses were enormous. Over seventy-five per cent of our rafts on a 50-mile
front were lost, and the enemies' were almost totally wiped out.

"When the mile-high seas had toned down a bit, we saw a huge concrete ball tossing about like
a cork. Couldn't make out what the devil it was. Then someone noticed a door. We got that open,
but there was a steel one inside. We had to slice it with an oxy-hydrogen flame. Inside, snug
as a bug in a rug, were you.

"Now come on, tell me how in blazes you got in there. If you don't spill it quick, I'll bust."

I sat up in my excitement. "Don't you see, they were afraid the ray might fail. They had those
concrete balls stuck all around so that the officers at least could escape, if it did. Their
best technical men must have been running the control room. They made sure to have that specially
strong. And the wave caused by the water pouring into the hole swept me right over here, just
where I started from."

Jim had both hands on my shoulders, was pushing me down. "Whoa, baby, whoa. That's just as
clear as a darkness-rayed area. Count up to ten, and start all over again."

"'Ten-shun!"

The general himself strode into the room. And then I had to tell my story straight.

A BEE'S BREADTH

The breath of a bee, important because of its indication of the health of the insect in winter
and of the efficiency of the sweet-producing hive in summer, was recently measured by Prof.
G. H. Vansell of the University of California. To do this he conducted the air coming from
the hive trough a tube into bulbs containing absorbent chemicals. Allowing for the natural
carbon dioxide and water of the outside air, he weighed these bulbs, getting an analysis of
the breath of the hive by the amount of water vapor and carbon dioxide the chemicals in the
bulbs had picked up.

He found that in winter when the bees were inactive the average hourly water loss from the
entire hive was thirty six millionths of an ounce. In summer when the insects were hard at
work making honey and gathering nectar the water loss was twenty five times as great. The carbon
dioxide output, however, did not even double in summer.

A Meeting Place for Readers of Astounding Stories

And That's That

     Dear Editor:

     May I have just a little room in "The Readers' Corner" to
     answer Mr. Meek's argument and defend myself from the charge
     of hasty reading? You will remember that I did not write my
     letter immediately after the publication of the first
     Heaviside Layer story, but waited until the appearance of
     the second, a "cooling-off" period of three months. In that
     time I re-read the story and considered it at length. I
     don't call that hasty reading. Besides, the flaw in the
     story is so obvious that even a "hasty" reading should
     suffice to find it.

     I can't argue about the matter of meteors because Mr. Meek
     has not given any figures concerning the density or
     viscosity of his medium. But I can say that to my way of
     thinking any astronomer could detect the effect of such
     friction on the action of meteors. They should certainly be
     consumed much more rapidly than if they merely struck thin
     air.

     That, however, is a minor point and I wouldn't even mind
     conceding it to Mr. Meek. The point I now wish to make is
     much more important and in my mind establishes the falsity
     of Mr. Meek's premises. In the July issue of Astounding
     Stories, page seven, paragraph four, sentences fourteen and
     fifteen, he states that the Heaviside Layer is composed of a
     liquid of high viscosity. By definition a liquid is more
     dense than a gas. Therefore the Heaviside Layer, according
     to Mr. Meek, is denser than the atmosphere of the earth
     since the former is a liquid and the latter is a gas. The
     increased refraction of light as it entered our atmosphere
     would then be noticeable. Astronomers can even now detect
     refraction due to the air. The sun remains visible for some
     time after it has actually descended below the horizon, due
     to refraction. If there was a denser substance than air
     surrounding the earth the refraction would be much greater.
     Finally, how could the atmosphere support a denser substance
     like the Heaviside Layer? I'd sure make for cover if I
     really believed that such a menace existed right over my
     head.

     Sorry to take up your space so much by an argument, but your
     comments on my letter really called for a defense. Hope you
     can find room for this.--Philip Waite, 3400 Wayne Ave, New
     Your, N. Y.

     Dear Editor:

     Since Mr. Waite has so generously admitted the validity of
     my answer to his criticism as regards meteors, I can do no
     less than admit that he scored one against me in his second
     argument. I used the word liquid. It was careless diction.
     Had I used the phrase "composed of a SUBSTANCE of high
     viscosity, of low specific gravity and with a coefficient of
     refraction identical with that of air," there would have
     been no argument. I am sure that Mr. Waite will admit after
     reflection that such a substance could be held in position,
     if its specific gravity were low enough, by a combination of
     gravity and centrifugal force, somewhat in the same manner
     as the ring of Saturn is held in place. Of course, any idea
     that the layer rested on the air and was supported in place
     by it, would be untenable. As I said in my previous letter,
     I don't believe such a layer exists. If it does, I hope that
     no one proves it before I get some characters off on a space
     flyer for an interplanetary adventure or two.--S. P. Meek,
     Capt., Ord. Dept., U. S. A.

Right from the Shoulder

     Dear Editor:

     I know for a fact that Astounding Stories is the best
     Science Fiction magazine on the stands. I have read it every
     issue except the first three, and have not yet found a bad
     story. The characters in other Science Fiction magazines
     seem like machines, but Astounding Stories' characters seem
     like intimate friends. Why do ---- [censored] like some
     write in and start bellyaching about the cover, pages, the
     size, the edges and many other things that no one but ----
     [censored] would notice? If they know so much why don't they
     start a magazine and put all other publications out of
     business? If they liked the stories they would not care if
     the color of the cover was black or red, white and blue. I
     get so interested in the stories that the edges of the paper
     do not amount to anything; and people that bellyache about
     such minor things prove that they do not care for the
     stories, and furthermore they prove that they are ----
     [censored] and ---- [censored] ready for the booby hatch.

     There is only one thing wrong with the perfect magazine: it
     does not come out twice a month. I have never known a bunch
     of Editors that have the intelligence of the Staff of
     Astounding Stories [uncensored--Ed.]. They have never
     published a single story that any intelligent Reader could
     kick about.

     About reprints: whether the Editors think that they should
     publish some or not, it is all the same to me, as they know
     what they are doing. I should like very much to see some
     stories by Burroughs, though.

     If I were to name your best authors, I would have to name
     every one that ever wrote a story for your wonderful
     magazine.--H. N. Sager, R. F. D. 6, Box 419, Bessemer, Ala.

Disposing of Old Stories

     Dear Editor:

     I have observed that numerous readers request reprints. I
     have a collection that goes back to 1900! Since I have no
     more use for them, I have decided to dispense with them.
     Here is an infinitesimal list:

     A. Merritt: "Thru the Dragon Glass," "The Moon Pool," "The
     Metal Monster" and "The Ship of Ishtar."

     Homer Eon Flint: "Out of the Moon," "The Planeteer," "The
     King of Conserve Island," "The Blind Spot" and "Flint and
     Hall."

     Jules Black: "Beyond the Earth Atom" and "Marooned in
     Space."

     John Louis Hill: "The Dimension Wizard" and "The Challenge
     from Beyond."

     Davidson Mortimer: "Lost in Time" and "The Amazing Empire
     Lost in Time" (sequel to story previously mentioned).

     Booth Langell: "The Moons of Lanisar."

     As I said before, this is but a small part of the Science
     Fiction stories I have. Anyone desiring stories mentioned
     above, or any others, please write to me.--George Zambock,
     459 E. 155th St., New York, N. Y.

A Kind Offer

     Dear Editor:

     I'm sure you will sympathize with me for reading your
     magazine in study hall.

     It is so very dull--I have three S.H.'s in a row--that I
     have to do something to relieve the monotony, so, seeing the
     latest copy of A. S. at my newsdealer's, I brought it back
     to school after dinner. I am speaking of the February
     number. I very much enjoyed the Dr. Bird story. Capt. Meek
     is always good. "Phalanxes of Atlans" promises to be an
     excellent story, also.

     What I want to know is, why are so many mossbacks throwing
     brickbats? What does it matter if some of the stories are
     not on the scientific chalk line? A very wise man once said
     that "Variety is the spice of life," so why not take a hint,
     some of you would-be brickbat pitchers, and pipe down?

     I have read every issue of Astounding Stories published so
     far, and have not a brickbat to report as yet. I notice in
     one letter to "The Readers' Corner" a request for a
     department on rocket propulsion. I presume the writer meant
     on propelling rocket planes. I have experimented on rocket
     ships for the past three years and can give some data on
     these as to the construction of models (for when I say ships
     I really mean model airplanes). I have had this as my hobby
     for the past four and a half years, and can give extensive
     information on model building. I specialize in models
     powered by power other than rubber; and I took second place
     at the Atlantic City Tournament held in October by the
     National Play-ground Association, in the Annual National
     Championships.

     Anyone desiring information on the rocket ship or any other
     type of model plane will be promptly answered by addressing
     their letter to me.

     I hope you will find room to publish this, as I like nothing
     better than helping someone get started on my favorite
     hobby, aviation. I have, however, several hobbies, including
     football, basket-ball, tennis, swimming, boating and hiking.
     I live within ten miles of the Great Smoky Mountains
     National Park, and can see from the study hall window, which
     I now am seated near to, three ranges of the mountains all
     covered with more than ten inches of snow.--Richard M.
     Evans, Box 305, Maryville, Tenn.

To the Defense

     Dear Editor:

     Some of the letters you have printed in "The Readers'
     Corner" almost burn me up. Edwin C. Magnuson asks you what
     you print there: only letters praising your magazine to the
     skies? or occasional brickbats? Well, I might say one thing,
     and that is: if you did print all brickbats, as he seems to
     want you to, the Readers would think that your magazine
     wasn't of much account if that was the kind of letters you
     got all the time, and would probably quit reading it.

     He also said he felt like quitting several times because the
     stories weren't scientific. Well, if he can show me anywhere
     on your magazine where it says it is a scientific magazine,
     I'll certainly beg his most humble pardon on bended knee. He
     also crabbed about your artists. If he can do better, I
     advise you to hire him. He also says that the paper is
     rotten, and that after a few handlings goes to pieces. I
     still have all my magazines, and have lent them several
     times, and the paper is still there. On his fifth statement
     I agree with him: you should have an editorial. Also I would
     certainly like to have reprints, as there are about six
     issues I didn't get, and I imagine there are several other
     Readers in the same boat.

     Hume V. Stephani makes a very good suggestion about a
     quarterly. I certainly think it would be appreciated and
     would go over big. And Robert J. Hyatt, I most certainly
     agree with you in your letter printed in the February issue;
     and if this letter is printed (which I hope it is) I hope
     you will see it, and know that at least one person has the
     same views on the magazine that you do.--Buel Godwin,
     101--3rd Avenue, S. E. Le Mars, Iowa.

"Now a Real Pest"

     Dear Editor:

     I have recently been initiated into the reading of Science
     Fiction, and as a result I am now a real pest to the
     magazine vendor, from asking for the next copy of Astounding
     Stories. I have just finished your February copy and words
     can't express my enjoyment.

     "The Tentacles from Below" is indeed a Science Fiction
     masterpiece. I devour eagerly Captain S. P. Meek's stories
     about Dr. Bird. As long as you keep Meek you can be assured
     that I will purchase this magazine. "The Pirate Planet"
     proved to be a story worthy to be kept as a reprint for
     future issues. In fact, many of your stories are so good
     that it is a shame that others can't enjoy them in future
     issues of Astounding Stories.

     Wesso is a great artist and I appreciate to the fullest
     extent his remarkable pictures.

     Yours for a continuation of your present success in editing
     and publishing remarkable stories--Lester P. Lieber, 542
     Dalzell St., Shreveport, La.

Stands Pat

     Dear Editor:

     Although this is my first letter to "The Readers' Corner" of
     your publication, I have nevertheless been a consistent
     Reader of the magazine since its inception. Contrary to many
     of your correspondents I have nothing to say against your
     magazine or policy. I like its size, its artists and most of
     its stories. I shall not bother to name those I do not like
     because I do not believe that there is a magazine to be
     found that can publish stories to suit all its Readers.

     I enjoy the serials and your two-part novelettes since it
     gives one something to look forward to each month. I enjoyed
     "The Pirate Planet" by Charles W. Diffin so much I was sorry
     to see it end, and I hope there will be more of his work in
     the future. I am particularly glad to see such writers as
     Captain S. P. Meek, Ray Cummings, Miles J. Breuer, Victor
     Rousseau and Harl Vincent as regular contributors to your
     pages, but there are also a number of other writers whom I
     miss seeing in "our" mag. Of these are A. Hyatt-Verrill who
     writes so well of the Incas, Otis Adelbert Kline who also
     gives us excellent stories and Leslie F. Stone whose "Men
     with Wings" and "Women with Wings" appeared in another
     magazine and which I enjoyed exceedingly. I believe that to
     have these writers as regular contributors would add much to
     the interest of the publication.

     With the compliments of an avid reader of Science Fiction. I
     salute you.--Theodore Morris, 1412 S. W. 13th St., Miami,
     Fla.

"Under My Collar"

     Dear Editor:

     I have been reading Astounding Stories for a good while and
     I like it fine. I noticed in your last issue that a fellow
     by the name of Edwin C. Magnuson was kicking about "The
     Readers' Corner." Some of his reasons, I think, for not
     liking this magazine are as follows: first, the
     illustrations are poor. I believe they are good. Second, he
     says that he doesn't like stories such as those written by
     Charles W. Diffin, Jackson Gee, Murray Leinster and Victor
     Rousseau. He also has in his letter a list of authors whose
     works he likes. I do not think they are so hot, with the
     exception of Capt. S. P. Meek. Mr. Magnuson also says he is
     disgusted with Astounding Stories and would like to quit
     reading it. Well, why doesn't he?

     I want to say it is a fine mag. I don't like to be a critic,
     but that fellow got under my collar. The only thing that
     could be done is to publish at least twice a month.

     Well, reckon I will sign off. Here is to Astounding Stories.
     A better mag can't be found!--Boyd H. Goodman, 2008 McKinney
     Ave., Dallas, Texas.

From Franklin to Poe

     Dear Editor:

     As a Reader of Astounding Stories from the first number I
     would like to comment on your magazine regarding your
     stories and the subject of reprints.

     First, you are publishing one of the best Science Fiction
     magazines on the market, and I read three of them. And
     although I agree with Mr. Magnuson and others on the subject
     of reprints, I do not agree with the former that the paper
     is rotten and falls to pieces. I have a complete file of
     Astounding Stories to date and I have not noticed any signs
     of disintegration amongst them as yet.

     You could easily follow the suggestion of Mr. Stephani, and
     have a space for good reprints and charge a nickel more. I
     believe most of your Readers would approve of it.

     The story, "The Sunken Empire," was fine, and it is to the
     credit of Science Fiction that in addition to interesting
     Readers in other worlds it has also created an interest in
     the fate of lands from which the Atlantic Ocean received its
     name. This story is reminiscent of a story which appeared in
     The Saturday Evening Post about three years ago called
     "Maracot Deep." In this story a party of men (three, I
     believe) descended to the bottom of the Atlantic and found a
     surviving colony from Atlantis, and saw reproduced on a
     screen events leading up to the sinking of Atlantis. It was
     written by the late Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, and the only
     weak spot was that Sir Arthur had to change the submergence
     of Atlantis from a natural catastrophe into a "judgment" of
     the gods, whose sense of propriety was outraged by the
     "wickedness" of the Atlanteans. If you reprinted this story
     your Readers would eat it up.

     I hope that you publish this letter because I want to reply
     through your "Readers' Corner" to Mr. Richard Lewis of
     Knoxville, Iowa, on the subject of reprints.

     Mr. Lewis says he has read most of the classic scientific
     stories referred to. Well, so have I, but I should like to
     read many of them again as would many of your Readers. I
     have for the last twenty years been reading literary
     classics but when I receive my copies of Good Literature or
     The Golden Book I do not consider myself cheated because I
     find some stories in them that I have read before. The best
     are always worth reading at least twice.

     As an illustration, has Mr. Lewis ever read the following:
     the "Kasidah," by Sir Richard Burton, who gave the world its
     best literal translation of "The Arabian Nights," which
     differs as daylight from dark in comparison with the Lane
     and Payne translations which are only edited for children to
     read? Or has he read the chapter which Benjamin Franklin
     added to the Bible? If Mr. Lewis read these for the first
     time in any magazine he takes he would no doubt consider
     them well worth the price of the magazine or more, yet they
     would be reprints, the last one about as old as the United
     States.

     The "Kasidah" is a long poem on philosophic aspects of
     evolution in which almost all Science Fiction Readers are
     interested. In contains lines like the following:

          "Conscience was bred
           When man had shed
           His fur, his tail
           And pointed ears."

     And as a dissertation on our caveman ancestors:

          "They fought for women as for food.
           When 'Mays' awoke to warm desire;
           And this the lust that changed to love
           When fancy lent a purer fire."

     Regarding the Franklin chapter, it is stated that "Wise Old
     Ben" used to insert it between the pages of the Bible and
     read it to his friends in the City of Brotherly Love, and
     great was the consternation of many who thought they knew
     the Scriptures from "cover to cover."

     Any new readers of Science Fiction would be glad to read
     "The Girl in the Golden Atom," "The Fire People" and "The
     Man Who Mastered Time," by Ray Cummings. I like to read this
     author's work, but I believe when he wrote this trilogy of
     Matter, Space and Time that he reached the heights of his
     writing. I have never read any subsequent writings of his
     that I thought exceeded them.

     Speaking of the necessity of authors eating, Mr. Lewis
     states that good stories have never been written on an empty
     stomach.

     Edgar Allan Poe who wrote "Shades" was one of the most
     brilliant of American writers, and his stomach was empty
     most of the time. And when this master of ratiocination had
     on rare occasions a full stomach it was invariably full of
     "hooch."

     As Mr. Lewis speaks as a pedagogue, is it not a
     physiological fact that an empty stomach clears the mind by
     diverting the blood stream from the necessity of digesting
     food? And while I am not advocating any fast cures for
     authors, some of them (although few in Astounding Stories)
     would be greatly benefited by trying it.

     In conclusion I should like to say to Mr. Lewis and others
     who take the same slant on reprints, that there are many of
     the finest writings in Science Fiction and the classics
     which you and I have never even heard of, much less read.

     I will close with best wishes for your continued
     success--Joseph R. Barnes, Cache Junction, Utah.

Now Feeling Better

     Dear Editor:

     Well, I guess I've just about gotten you exasperated with
     all the brickbats I've been cannoning into your office.
     However, I believe this letter will make you feel a little
     better.

     The latest issue was fine. There wasn't a story in it that I
     didn't enjoy. "The Tentacles from Below" was a surprisingly
     good story, especially when you consider that I don't like
     sea stories. I liked this one very much.

     Another extremely great surprise was "Werewolves of War."
     From the few notes about it I surmised that it was another
     one of those hero-dying-and-saving-his-country stories; and
     it was--but not the kind I expected it to be. The author's
     narrative and descriptive abilities were such that I forgot
     all about the plot running throughout the story. Hang on to
     that fellow.

     The other complete story was also good. The conclusion of
     the "The Pirate Planet" was also good, as were its preceding
     instalments. The first instalment of "Phalanxes of Atlans"
     was unusual. That's gonna turn out to be one of the best
     stories you've yet published, or I miss my bet.--G.
     Kirschner, Box 301, Temple, Texas.

"Paper Is Durable"

     Dear Editor:

     While reading "The Readers' Corner" in your January issue I
     noticed a bit of criticism by Edwin Magnuson of Duluth,
     Minn. In it he said that you have printed some stories
     containing little or no science. But, first, most of your
     Readers like a little change in a subject and I advise one
     or two of these about two or three months apart. Second, the
     paper is of durable material, for I pass my magazine to my
     friends who read it and then return it with very few pages
     torn. Third, I agree that reprints would be a blessing, for
     most of your readers have not read stories by Cummings,
     Breuer, Wells and Vincent. Fourth, the fact that some
     stories have not a sound scientific basis is quite all right
     because every fair reader likes his stories fired with some
     imagination.--Walter Witte, 960 Duchess St., St. Paul,
     Minn.

Suggestions

     Dear Editor:

     Although I have read every issue of A. S. since it came out,
     I have never written about it, and this is what I have to
     say:

     First, it is just as good or better than two other Science
     Fiction magazines that I can name.

     Second, in my opinion you have some of the best modern
     authors, such as Cummings, Meek, Rousseau, Diffin, Vincent
     and Hamilton. Also others.

     The stories have been A-1 with the exception of "Murder
     Madness," which, in my opinion, does not belong in a
     magazine of this type, but in a detective story magazine,
     because that is all it was--a detective story. And when are
     you going to have a sequel to "The Gray Plague," by L. A.
     Eshbach which appeared in the November issue? It deserves
     one.

     The best author on your staff is Captain S. P. Meek, whose
     Dr. Bird stories cannot be equalled. They are science
     stories plus.

     A few suggestions: an occasional reprint. It would not
     affect the living conditions of our present day authors and
     would give us all a chance to read a classic of yesterday.

     Do not change the size (i. e. width and length); but as for
     enlarging it in the thickness direction, you have my
     heartiest encouragement. I notice that one of the other
     magazines has changed its size, so now you are not alone.
     Evening up the edges of the sheets would improve the looks,
     however. And now that you have had your first birthday, when
     are you going to start a quarterly? In it you could publish
     a complete book length novel and seven novelettes. By novel,
     I mean a story of about one hundred pages or more of your
     present size, and novelettes fifty pages or more. You could
     double the price because a quarterly is worth double what a
     monthly is worth.

     Your artists are great, but you could still improve by
     having them make a full page illustration at the start and
     one more exciting one as the story progresses.

     Well, I think I've said enough good things about you and
     enough suggestions, so until January 1932, adios, au revoir,
     etc.--Henry Benner, Cowithe, Wash.

Ouch!

     Dear Editor:

     Personally I would rather read a good short story than the
     ten pages of instructions by Readers published in the March
     issue. Two pages are plenty, especially when half the
     criticisms concern paper, size, edges of paper, etc. A. S.
     is O. K!

     How about that other short?--Don Ward, 6 Ketchel St.,
     Auburn, N. Y.

Likes Action

     Dear Editor:

     I have just finished the February issue of Astounding
     Stories. All of the stories were so good I couldn't tell you
     which one is the best. "The Phalanxes of Atlans" and "The
     Tentacles from Below" were very good. I liked "The Black
     Lamp," too. It is up to the standard of the rest of the Dr.
     Bird stories. "The Pirate Planet" ended very beautifully.
     However, I did not like that about Sykes getting killed.
     "Werewolves of War" was good. It ended differently from most
     of the other stories. Most of them end with the hero
     escaping, but in this the hero was killed. It had a very
     good plot.

     I got my first copy of Astounding Stories last July and I
     haven't missed a copy since. Why not put out Astounding
     Stories twice a month, or make it a weekly? I hate to have
     to wait a whole month before I get another copy.

     I believe that the best story I have ever read in this
     magazine was "The Invisible Death," by Victor Rousseau.

     The reason I like Astounding Stories better than any other
     Science Fiction magazine is that most of the other magazines
     have too much science and not enough action.--Dale Griffith,
     437 Carson St., San Antonio, Texas.

"To Satisfy Myself"

     Dear Editor:

     It has been long since I read the February issue of your
     magazine and I'm waiting anxiously for the March issue.

     The February issue had some very good stories, and I just
     must say that the story entitled "Werewolves of War," is the
     best story of its type I have ever read. Unlike most of
     these stories there is more future truth than fiction.

     Perhaps you didn't expect to hear from me so soon again, but
     I am interested in this type of story as I used to write
     this kind in my English class back in high school. My
     stories were of this type, but always different from any
     that the rest of the class wrote. Another thing, I love to
     be writing, so I take this way to satisfy myself. I do hope
     you will excuse me.

     I have one more thing to say and that is: I only wish your
     magazine was put out every two weeks instead of every four;
     or print more stories and raise the price to twenty five
     cents. I'm sure people will pay if they are as interested as
     I.--Ken F. Haley, 36 Mechanic St., Lebanon, N.H.

"Easier to Turn"

     Dear Editor:

     I have just read "The Readers' Corner" of the March issue
     and noticed that bright remark about that super-rotten
     story, "Skylark Three." Anyone who liked that story is
     certainly not hard to please. It does not compare with the
     worst story ever published. I also read that "other
     magazine" and I say that it has disgraced itself by "Skylark
     Three."

     Everything is perfect about your magazine except that there
     are not enough stories in each issue. The uneven edges are
     just fine, for it makes the pages easier to turn. The covers
     are not too gaudy. The covers should depict a thrilling
     incident in a story; they do.

     "Phalanxes of Atlans" offered a good theory as to the
     whereabouts of the descendants of the Atlanteans and the
     Lost Tribes of Israel. It was keen.

     I conclude my letter with a warning: do not change your
     type. Also do not change your order of issue; I mean, do not
     make your magazine into a bi-monthly as I see some magazines
     of this type have done.--Robert Leonard Russell, 825 Casey
     Ave., Mt. Vernon, Illinois.

You Tell 'Em!

     Dear Editor:

     I have always considered the drawings of H. W. Wesso far
     superior to those of all other Science Fiction artists, and,
     indeed, much better than the work of most pulp magazine
     illustrators. But his cover for the March issue of
     Astounding Stories was remarkable even for him; it was a
     veritable masterpiece.

     So enthralled was I by the first sight of this eye-arresting
     picture that I stared at it for minutes on end. This
     snarling titan with his mighty arm outstretched toward the
     tiny figures just beyond his reach--what a gripping tableau!

     Free from the superfluous, uninteresting machinery and
     apparatus that clutter up most illustrations in other
     Science Fiction magazines, your March cover remained
     fantastic, but human--a picture that expressed the very
     essence of super-scientific fiction as presented in
     Astounding Stories. Vivid in color, striking in subject,
     dramatic in treatment and drawn with consummate skill, that
     cover must have attracted many new Readers to this magazine.

     And the promise held out by the cover was more than
     fulfilled by the contents of that issue--one of your best to
     date. The only discordant note in the entire magazine was
     the yapping and ranting of certain dissatisfied ----
     [censored] too ---- [censored] to appreciate the finest,
     most worthy publication in its field to-day.--Booth Cody,
     Bronx, New York.

"Nothing Is Automatic"

     Dear Editor:

     First, I wish to congratulate you on the increasing quality
     of your magazine since its first issue. It surpasses all
     other Science Fiction magazines, and I haven't missed a
     single issue and don't intend to!

     What prompted me to write this letter was an article, "A
     Robot Chemist," published in your March, 1931, issue. In the
     article it states that a mechanical robot performed several
     experiments without human supervision. But, I am sorry to
     say, I disagree. Nothing is automatic. Foolishly, after
     perfecting anything that performs its work afterwards by
     itself, man calls it an automaton. But it is not! Did he not
     have to work and slave hour after hour, day after day and
     month after month to perfect it? He did! Ever since man
     became civilized he has deceived himself by calling, for
     instance, machinery in a factory, automatons. The quest for
     automatic machinery is as hopeless as the quest for
     perpetual motion!

     What is my idea of an automaton? Well, take a robot for
     instance. Man calls it an automaton in spite of the fact
     that he had to slave to put it together before it did its
     work.

     My idea is this: the iron ore would come out itself, smelt
     itself, form itself in the various shapes and parts needed
     to construct a robot, then take its correct place and rivet
     itself. Then the radio brain, electrical eyes and magnet
     hands take their place; and when it has constructed itself
     it will conduct the experiments--if a chemical
     robot--without human supervision. Thus, the latter clause
     would be true! That's my conception of an automatic robot!
     Otherwise, its just some metal doing the bidding of a
     master's brain.

     Another thing: the novelette "Beyond the Vanishing Point,"
     by Ray Cummings, is preposterous. The flesh might shrink or
     grow, but the bone would not! If one shrunk as did George
     Randolph, one's bones would burst through the flesh.

     But in spite of all that, I like the stories that way.
     Science, in the years to come might discover how to shrink
     or grow both flesh and bones. I guess I'm taking too much of
     your time, so adios!--Jay Zee, Chicago, Illinois.

Hot Times in the Fire-House

     Dear Editor:

     The first Thursday in each month I make a bee-line for the
     newsstand--and Astounding Stories. It may interest you to
     know that I have every issue on file that you have put out.

     There have been some mighty good yarns in those issues, but
     the one just at hand contains the best story you have ever
     published--"Terrors Unseen," by Harl Vincent. There's an
     author for you; but evidently I don't have to tell you so,
     as you have given us quite a number of his splendid stories.
     "Vagabonds of Space" was a wow. Like some of the others who
     have written in, I would like to see a sequel to this. Harl
     Vincent is my favorite of all your authors.

     A close second is Charles W. Diffin. He is good, too. As
     your authors appeal to me, in order, I mean. I would line
     them up in this way: Harl Vincent, Charles W. Diffin, R. F.
     Starzl, Ray Cummings, Capt. S. P. Meek, Jack Williamson and
     Murray Leinster.

     I agree with Jim Nicholson of San Francisco that you should
     give us some stories by Francis Flagg. Here is an author you
     never have published, and, to my way of looking at things,
     he has more fresh material than most of the authors put
     together. Many of the things that have been copied widely
     and used extensively (I don't mean that whole stories have
     been stolen, or anything like that) were originated by this
     fine writer. By all means get Francis Flagg. [We have just
     bought a story--a good one--from him!--Ed]. He would stand
     about third in my list if you had used his work before. I
     made it up from those whose work has been used.

     Two or three things I notice, that I would have you correct.
     All your stories seem to be of standardized length, either
     around 10,000 words or 25,000 words. Eliminate all
     restrictions as to word length but make your writers boil
     down their work. Most stories are too long, and could be
     told better if cut down quite a bit. The paper and the page
     size of the magazine are okay, but why not smooth edges? And
     it is hard to keep the covers on. I wouldn't object to more
     pages or an extra nickel in price. Or if not that, how about
     publishing "our" magazine twice a month?

     After fighting a fire, there's nothing like Astounding
     Stories with which to "unlax." You're doing a fine job, and
     I only make these suggestions because I want a "perfect"
     magazine instead of one that bats 97% all the time. Hope
     you'll have room for all this. And, oh yes, keep on with
     your program of "No reprints." Your new yarns are better
     than the old ones. Let's have the new ones, and encourage
     our fine string of authors to do even better work.--Gayl
     Whitman, Fireman, Co. No. 11, Main at 22nd, Columbus, Ohio.

Correspondents Wanted

     Dear Editor:

     Another critic is going to take his pen in hand and give you
     a bouquet. I have just finished reading the March issue of
     A. S. and think it was fine.

     Of all the stories you have published I liked "The Gray
     Plague" the best. I don't care much for reprints because I
     like new stories the best.

     I would like to correspond with some of the Readers of A. S.
     I will answer any or all letters I receive.--L. B. Knutson,
     629--3rd Ave., So, Minneapolis, Minn.

A Heroine a la Mode

     Dear Editor:

     I'm with J. H. Nicholson, who advises those who are
     indifferent to the scientifically possible in order to give
     the author a broader field in which to lay his plot. As he
     says, they should feel right at home with their noses stuck
     into a volume of Anderson's Fairy Tales. However, this
     letter is more to express the science lovers' viewpoint than
     to sling mud at the authors. For us, the plot loses much of
     its kick if the science is not reasonable.

     Suppose for once that one of these Readers who waives
     scientific possibility aside as secondary should pick up a
     plot-distorted story in which the heroine should be
     described something as follows:

     "Hers was a tall superbly built figure combining the
     strength of a horse with the gentle curves of a hippo. When
     she spoke, her sweetly modulated voice was as pleasant to
     the ear as the bray of a Spanish jackass. Her hair hung to
     her waist and was the convenient nesting place for several
     English sparrows. She was slightly cockeyed from birth and
     had had her nose squashed in a saloon brawl. She carried
     herself with the graceful dignity of an African orang-utan
     and was always much sought after, having a quaint habit of
     slapping every new male she met a resounding whack on the
     back that loosened their bridge work. Being a veteran
     tobacco chewer and having high blood pressure she could spit
     one hundred feet against a fifty-mile wind. When she ate in
     company, she had an amusing way of gargling her soup in
     G-flat. Her--"

     It's unnecessary to go further. Such a character would be
     every bit as reasonably possible as some of the science
     these science-conniving Readers are willing to sanction.

     Here are some of the seemingly impossible feats of a recent
     story: 1--a diver in an ordinary diving dress is able to
     stand the pressure at three miles down; 2--(granting the
     above is possible) a diver shoots up three miles without
     stopping and still does not become a victim of the bends;
     3--(granting the above two possible) a diver after shooting
     from such a great depth and pressure to a depth of
     comparatively low pressure would not be able to lower the
     pressure inside his dress, since it would be held so rigid
     that he would not be able to bend his arms; 4--a man or
     animal suddenly released from the enormous pressure of about
     three hundred tons to the square inch to atmospheric
     pressure, it seems, would most certainly burst before the
     internal pressure could equalize itself.

     Please notice that I said seemingly wrong. I'm for A. S.
     just one hundred per cent and would prefer to have it as
     right as possible. I don't like crank letter writing and
     would never have written this now if it hadn't been for
     several of the letters in the March issue that gave me a
     touch of hades under the collar. S'long. Maybe I'll write
     again sometime when I get some more "ham science"
     ideas.--William S. Lotsch, 1 Morrison Ave., Troy, N. Y.

You Make Them Adequate

     Dear Editor:

     Thanks. Of course I accept your invitation to "The Readers'
     Corner." I have been a constant Reader of your magazine
     since its appearance on the Science Fiction horizon, and I
     have yet to meet a story that I failed to read in its
     entirety or that I didn't like.

     To merely write a letter and say that this story was good,
     the other story was fair, and oh my! how poor the third
     story was, is futile. But as it is the usual custom to do so
     here goes:

     Excellent stories--all of the first five volumes; good
     stories--who's interested?; poor stories--where are they?;
     good authors--takes up too much room and time; poor
     authors--got tired looking for them.

     All I want to say is, Astounding Stories is the best or one
     of the best magazines on the market. Gee, but aren't words
     futile when you describe something great and
     wonderful!--Herbert Goodket, 707 Jackson Avenue, New York,
     N. Y.

Ain't It Too Awful!

     Dear Editor:

     I knew it. It was bound to come. At last my efforts have
     been rewarded. Fame has sought me out--even in Brooklyn. It
     was suggested in the March issue of Astounding Stories that
     I, Louis Wentzler, as one of the active contributors to "The
     Readers' Corner," regale your Readers with a description of
     myself, my interest in Science Fiction and how I got that
     way. A picture was also requested, but this had better be
     omitted. As for my personal history, bend an ear:

     At the tender age of four, while making mud pies on the
     doorstep of my home, I was beaned by a brick hurled by an
     uncouth ruffian across the street. The results were not
     fatal--who said "unfortunately?"--but from that moment I
     developed a taste for Science Fiction. Had it not been for
     that incident I might have grown up a normal lad; but the
     caress of that brick on my cranium did things to me, and I
     have been a Science Fiction addict since.

     Of course, I do not contend that all Science Fiction fans
     were hit by bricks, though a lot of them should be. I do
     believe, however, that a slight concussion of the brain
     helps one appreciate Science Fiction the more. Anyway, once
     imbued with the urge I took to Science Fiction like a Hindu
     to hashish. Such stories were rare in those days, but I
     started to collect all I could find.

     Then came the war. I was too young to fight, but I did my
     bit making canteens out of old sieves. That was how my mind
     worked, you see. Well, the war ended--I forgot who won--and
     I went back to my beloved Science Fiction. Years have passed
     since then, and I have a fine collection of stories now.
     Should any of you care to see them, come around to the local
     booby-hatch some time: you'll find me in Padded Cell No.
     17.--Louis Wentzler, 1935 Woodbine St., Brooklyn, N. Y.

Hurrah!

     Dear Editor:

     Except for a brief letter of criticism in the August, 1930,
     number of Astounding Stories, I have been a silent but loyal
     follower of the magazine since its first issue. My silence
     was that of profound satisfaction. Almost all the stories
     suited me to perfection; and the few I did not like were
     hardly worth commenting on. Since the magazine has grown
     better with every issue I would probably have kept my peace;
     but there is one disturbing factor which impels me to write
     again.

     I refer to the irresponsible outbursts of certain ----
     [censored] who squeeze into "The Readers' Corner" and
     sputter out senseless denunciations of the magazine, its
     appearance, its policies, and so on. I do not object to
     logical, well-founded criticism, but I most decidedly do
     object to the ---- [censored] remarks and invidious
     comparisons indulged in by various ---- [censored] Readers.
     It's about time someone told them where to head in, and, by
     your leave, I'll do it.

     The most recent offender is J. Vernon Shea, Jr., a
     Pittsburgh lad of eighteen who, in the March issue, ventures
     to criticize the grammar of Ray Cummings, call the Editor
     harsh names, and demand that the magazine conform to his own
     dizzy notions. He concedes that Astounding Stories prints
     consistently interesting tales, but charges that the Editor
     is indifferent to "the advancement of Science Fiction." Mr.
     Shea, can't you see that the publication of first-class
     stories, as in this magazine, is the best possible way to
     popularize Science Fiction? Or do you simply prefer inferior
     stuff?

     Then there's D. R. Guthrie, from way back in Idaho, who
     liked a yarn in another magazine so much he had to tell us
     all about it--as if we didn't have the best Science Fiction
     ever written right here in Astounding Stories. Guthrie's
     another who seems to prefer brass to gold.

     Going back an issue or two, we note a letter from Edwin
     Magnuson, a deluded denizen of Duluth, who says he's plumb
     disgusted because Astounding Stories receives far more
     bouquets than brickbats, when according to him the mag
     deserves to be panned plenty. Get in step, Edwin, you're
     falling way behind!

     And I mustn't forget M. Clifford Johnston of the Newark
     Johnstons, who calls Astounding Stories trash and its
     Readers morons. Well, there are various degrees of mental
     incompetence, and the moron is far above the idiot, Mr.
     Johnston!

     Now that I've taken a few hasty pokes at those who most
     deserved them, I'll give my own comments on some of your
     latest stories--and anyone who feels like telling me where I
     get off is welcome to do so.

     First, let me take my hat off to Jack Williamson. I never
     thought much of his stuff in other mags, but his "The Meteor
     Girl" was a mighty fine piece of work. Evidently you've got
     to be good to crash Astounding Stories. Interesting as it
     was, though, Williamson's yarn contained a noticeable error.
     In the story, the narrator and his friend witness an event
     occurring twelve hours in the future at a distant place.
     They then travel to that place, reaching it at a time
     exactly corresponding to the time of the event witnessed.
     Therefore, they should have seen themselves in the future
     scene--an obvious fact which the author either failed to
     consider or conveniently ignored. [But--by the story, they
     did not arrive at the rock until just AFTER the events they
     witnessed by means of the fourth dimension. Thus, everything
     is O. K. Take another look.--Ed.] Despite this flaw the
     story embodied several original ideas, had plenty of action,
     and was well told. We can stand more of Williamson.

     "Phalanxes of Atlans," by F. V. W. Mason, was a corker. When
     writers of Mason's standing turn to Science Fiction, we fans
     have much to be thankful for. Is there any chance of our
     getting a story by Fred MacIsaac, Theodore Roscoe, or Erle
     Stanley Gardner? All of them are first-class writers, and
     they can handle Science Fiction better than many who have
     specialized in that field. The only other suggestion I can
     offer for improving the magazine is to have additional
     illustrations within the stories, such as Wide World
     Adventures used to have.

       *       *       *       *       *