MY IDEAL CHURCH IS CHARACTERIZED SOLELY BY THE VERY SIMPLEST
      INTERPRETATION OF THE OLD, OLD STORY, AND EACH MEMBER DESERVES THE
      NAME OF THE "FRIEND OF ALL THE WORLD"

      WHAT HAS THE CHURCH MEANT TO ME? IT HAS MEANT THE AGENCY THROUGH
      WHICH I RECEIVED SUCH SPIRITUAL SIGHT AS I HAVE. IT HAS MEANT THE
      BODY THROUGH WHICH HAS COME TO ME STRENGTH IN WEAKNESS MANY TIMES,
      COMFORT IN TRIAL, HELP IN TIME OF NEED

WHAT THE CHURCH MEANS TO ME

WHAT THE CHURCH MEANS TO ME

A FRANK CONFESSION AND A FRIENDLY ESTIMATE BY AN INSIDER

BY

WILFRED T. GRENFELL, M.D. (Oxon.)

Superintendent Labrador Medical Mission

THE PILGRIM PRESS

BOSTON NEW YORK CHICAGO

  Copyright, 1911
  By Wilfred T. Grenfell

  THE PLIMPTON PRESS
  [W · D · O]
  NORWOOD · MASS · U·S·A

WHAT THE CHURCH MEANS TO ME

The Church to me means all who, consciously or unconsciously, are forwarding God's kingdom
on earth. In the broad definition of the Master it means "all those who are not against us."
The way in which men associate for worship, or in which they consider it most remunerative
to invest their efforts to forward the kingdom, gives them no right to arrogate to themselves
the title of God's Church. Any body of men saying, "We are the Church," seems to me ridiculous.

If they try to exclude at the same time those who approach their Maker, or who are endeavoring
to do faithfully the things Christ would approve, only in some other way, then they become
offensive also. I am firmly convinced the world is coming to this view, and I am glad it is
already beginning to express it. Through "the Church" the salvation of the world must come.
I have no use whatever for the critic whose heart is set on her destruction or who muckrakes
it for a revenue. By this I mean the Church Invisible, known only to God's Holy Spirit.

STANDARDS WHICH CHRIST WOULD CONDEMN

The "offense" of the visible churches that tells most against them today in the minds of educated
men is not worldliness or unfaithfulness; it is their inability to shake off their untenable
position as judges of others. The "Church" in Jesus' day judged him unfit to live. Upon Luther,
Wesley, and many of the best servants of the human race the churches to which they belonged
passed similar sentences. Even the suggestion of the "holding-up-of-skirts," of this "I-am-holier-than-thou"
attitude, because I think differently, is repellent and has not yet met the fate that certainly
awaits it, before there can be a reign of universal peace. Science has taught us that doubt,
quite as much as faith, leads to the apprehension of truth. There are countless men, skilled
in the exact sciences and in scholarship, possessed of wealth and rank, who find it impossible
to define their position in words, yet whose humility and charity make us love them, whose
deeds are just such as those which have come down the ages as Jesus' own selection for the
most convincing evidence of his Sonship of God. We all know today men of inferior attainments
and lives who not only know themselves to be infallible, but haven't the grace to leave even
such men alone, and who have interpreted their call to the "ministry" as simply a mandate to
set every one else intellectually right. I know that that which is hidden from the wise can
be revealed to babes, and that our talents--namely, social position, wealth, and brains--merely
enlarge in God's sight our capacity for service, and therefore our responsibility. But I know
also that the prizes of our high calling can be purchased only by our fidelity in following,
and that involves other than intellectual processes.

THE CASE OF THE WORKING MAN

As for the working man, to my mind if he doesn't join a visible church today it is simply because
he doesn't see any good in it. The teachings of the Church's Master still appeal to him, but
the churches to him don't stand for them. He has seen the visible churches, organized to perpetuate
Christ's teaching, striving for centuries only after privilege, patronage, and political power.
Was ever such a topsy-turvyism? Instead of being a bridge over the great gulf between wealth
and poverty, the Church still savors to him too much of the "be content where you are" sentiment.
To him she is insincere, and consequently his pew is empty. He doesn't want an insurance agency
only for the next world; he wants a kingdom of righteousness, joy, and peace, first in this
world, where Christ intended it to be, as well as in the next. Church authority can no longer
compel his interest; she cannot compete as a popular entertainer; only the proof of her unselfish
love in matters of everyday life can save her from becoming a useless hulk, stranded on the
beach of time. Rainsford, Stelzle, and others have shown that the downtown churches need not
close if the message is given in Christ's own undeniable way which the people can't misunderstand.

Though I do see the various churches just beginning to rouse themselves--no longer wholly absorbed
in making every one say "shibboleth" with an "h," still just as in politics the party machine
becomes God, crushing truth and righteousness before it, so the church machine is only too
often a Juggernaut's car, destroying all faith in God and man. The machine has usurped the
pedestal of Christ, as in Rome and Russia, and nearer home, if Judge Lindsey of Denver is to
be believed. For there the very clergy of 145 out of 150 churches refused to come out boldly
against dives and brothels that were defiling the girls and boys of the city of Denver, because
they dared not endanger the interests of their machine. Vox populi was right. They were presumably
afraid to take up the cross, which real fighting the devil involves as much today as it did
in Judea centuries ago. Many, outside all churches, support hospitals, orphanages, soup kitchens,
relief funds, and so forth. Big corporations and even heathen armies on the war path support
Y. M. C. A. work, because that is a demonstratively valuable working factor. The church which
is afraid of offending rich members cannot have a faith in God which is worth anything.

Thank God for all the illustrations of her direct watchful vitality that she does show. As,
for instance, when the Christian Endeavorers fought the question of prize-fight moving-picture
shows and won out or when a Parkhurst fought bravely for a clean police force. Even if the
world today does not vex itself so much as formerly about predestination, original sin, the
"actual presence," or even the correct mental attitude to insure heaven hereafter, the churches
may surely count it as a product of their work that the people do trust God more simply for
the past and future, and are more in earnest about securing justice for the downtrodden and
the square deal in the present. In this they need as much as ever the Church's leading.

WHAT MAKES THE CHURCH ATTRACTIVE

That which attracts to a church today is not higher criticism, elaborate ritual, hair-splitting
creeds, but fearless fighting for public health, for good government, for righteous labor conditions,
for clean courts of justice. It was the leader of a darky revival who, when asked why he didn't
sometimes read the Old Testament, replied: "No, sah. Dem commandments just upset de whol' revival."
There is no need that taking up politics and social questions should exclude the preaching
of the Christ. Men will follow today a Kingsley and a Maurice, a Lincoln, a Beecher, a Brooks,
or a Worcester as they will a Heney, a Hughes, or a Folk or any man in whom they see plainly
reflected the unselfish love of the Christ.

Who cares, as a matter of fact, which way these men said their prayers? They may have been
Catholic or Protestant, or in honest doubt, but we love them and will follow them. To us they
stand for real love to man, and so real faith in God; for true pluck and willingness to take
up their cross. Oh, if every member of the churches and every wearer of "the cloth" realized
the privilege of standing by every uplifting effort, and was always so valiant for truth as
to make a Rueff or any agent of the devil occasionally think it worth while to take the risk
of trying to kill them--as in the case of this same Lincoln, of Heney, of Lindsey, and of the
Master--the world would recognize then that the Church was worth while, and there would be
no discussing whether it was going to die out or not. A little physical shooting wouldn't hurt
the Church. The world wants a Church Militant, not a backboneless intellectualism. Only the
"great Church victorious" can be the "Church at rest."

Nowhere is this fact more unanswerably demonstrated than in the missionary field. Faithlessness
in this respect and fearfulness of expenditure, both of men and money in missionary work, have
always stood in any church for choked channels of spiritual power, and subsequently spelled
anæmia, atrophy, and death. Constant metabolism is as essential for spiritual life as physical.
A church must die that doesn't use up and give out energy as surely as a physical body. The
period of latent physical life is not long. God in his mercy has seemed to prolong latent spiritual
life almost unduly in the case of some churches. Those who love the Church are breathing a
little more freely because of the Laymen's Missionary Movement.

LACK OF CLEARNESS

To me personally it is hard to know exactly what the Church has meant; it is hard to "know
one's self." The attitude of practically all men's minds is to excuse their own shortcomings
by attributing the cause elsewhere. Thus Paddy blames the Government for the hole in his trousers,
just as he does for the typhoid resulting from the dump heap in front of his own door. When
I first essayed to write on this subject, I several times tore up the manuscript, feeling that
I had written that which was calculated to rend her at whose breast my own spirit had first
found life-giving sustenance and afterwards wisdom, encouragement, and aid.

Yet history seems plainly to show that there have been times when the world would have been
more Christian if the organizations to which men often limit the name of church had ceased
to exist. I presume the experience we have all had with organizations calling themselves "the
Church" has driven us, at times at least, to the same conclusions in our own day about those
particular branches. But this bears no reference to the body of men who love Christ better
than their own lives. They are really the Church, and mean everything to me, to the world outside,
and to all aspirants to the dignity of the name of Christian.

ORGANIZATIONS ESSENTIAL

The visible Church stands to me above all else as appointed of God for all that organization
means in the attainment of any other object. Atmospheric religion is desirable, but to progress,
to permanence, organization is essential. Moreover, being conscious of the idiosyncrasy of
the human mind, I have every use for the various communions if no man is to be excluded.

But I look on one and all simply as a means to an end, and as agencies, not entities. Theoretically
there is no reason why they should not love one another. Alas! they haven't always done so.
A large membership of ineffective persons may be only an incubus. Like sailors on my vessel,
if they are incompetent they are a hindrance, and in every way expensive and undesirable. I
never care to emphasize the large number that the crew of my hospital ship consists of. As
long as I can do the work I take pride in the small number I can handle it with. It is far
better for the individuals themselves to have more responsibility and see clearly the result
of their own handiwork. They feel also, then, that it is more important to be ready at all
calls, and when at it they will work far more keenly. History proves that when Constantine
filled the Eastern Church with nominal Christians he led directly to its downfall. Yet one
of the most difficult things I have had to learn is that religious people find it impossible
to believe that others do not care one iota whether a man is labeled a Methodist or an Episcopalian.
I certainly do not, and I do not believe God does.

CHRIST COUNTS, NOT CREEDS

I sat in a small, mean little cabin on our coast some time ago while a trained nurse from New
York washed a sick baby and taught the mother how to save the poor little mite's life. It was
that gentlewoman's ministry for Jesus Christ. For the privilege she was paying her own expenses
and receiving no salary. If ever I realized the Master standing by in my life it was then and
there in the semi-darkness of that hut. That kind of ministry never fails to grip the laboring
man. An hour later, as I spoke to a preacher about this angel of mercy, he said, "Yes, but
it is a pity she is a Roman Catholic." Yes, it is hard, this faith in Jesus Christ. It will
bring her no praise of men. Yet it was such sermons as this nurse's that Jesus thought it worth
while wasting his time on, when the world lacked theology far more than it does today. Those
sermons of his in their modest settings have been the most brilliant of the world's possessions
ever since. I think the Church grades her preachers wrongly. There is no failure of Christ's
aims. His message is bearing fruit in the hearts of many men whom the-necessary-to-define-your-mental-attitude
school would rule out of the kingdom. Even Elijah made a mistake in the matter of how many
servants God had.

USEFULNESS THE SUPREME TEST

These divisions of the Church mean to me cargo vessels, and if for any reason they can't carry,
they should go out of commission. If one is beyond repair or the type has been superseded,
it should go out permanently. We continue to run old three-deckers for fighting battles, or
Columbian caravels for freighting purposes. It appears to some to cause a temporary setback
to fighting efficiency to send a once serviceable ship to the scrap heap, but it is the best
and cheapest in the end. In the North Sea fishery I saw hundreds of sailing craft that had
helped to make fortunes, that had kept the markets full, and that still had years of life,
laid up, and then sold practically for old junk. Why? Simply because swift steam-trawlers had
been found to do the work better.

These sub-organizations, as far as I am concerned, are existing merely to help men to work
in the spiritual field. They are not like some yachts, just to carry bunting and paint to be
admired. As for church affiliation, what I like to see is a hungry man going where he will
be fed and get strength. I trust it does not seem flippant to say that I look on all church
organizations in the same way, and that the tradition of a long past suggests to me the inefficiency
of a dotage, quite as much as the stimulating aroma of potency which, as in the case of some
wines, can only be acquired by the lapse of time. Some will say that this Modernism has no
sense of obligation, no sense of veneration, makes no allowance for the idiosyncrasies of others.
Well, that may be so. I may plead, on the contrary, that what we call the ancient Church was
the youthful Church. The Church of the twentieth century is the ancient, grown-up Church.

THE BUILDING ITSELF, PRO AND CON

Experience has convinced me that bricks and mortar and sectarian loyalty have more often been
hindrances than helps to that expression of faith in him which Jesus looks for in our lives.
I admit I have not lived long enough in one place fully to appreciate the possibilities for
stimulus and help this tying up into bundles can afford. On the other hand, I feel so certain
that buildings set aside for public worship are essential in every place, that where none exists
I feel wretched, and I have shares in quite a number all along our Labrador coast.

I love to wander through an ancient edifice in which generations of men have come and worshiped
and found help and comfort. I like looking at the Viking ship, but I don't want to cross the
Atlantic in it. Personally, I like to hear, to see, and to understand. The dim religious light
and sonorous sounds do not waken me to a keener sense of the call of God to be up and doing.
They just make me sleepy. Besides being difficult as a rule to hear, there is too much around
to distract my attention. I don't think Westminster Abbey helps me personally to attend to
the service. On the contrary, I think it makes me think of the building. I used somehow to
imagine that service in the open air was necessarily associated with cant. Now I like it far
the best. Not merely because it is more sanitary--till some one learns how to ventilate a building
decently--but because it absolutely forces you to feel insignificant, and anxious that the
great Creator should condescend to care about a mosquito like you. Moreover, I have often noticed
out in the open a unity between those of different sects that was perfectly delightful. Meanwhile
I am not unmindful that in many, if not in all, a deep inborn spiritual craving, no child of
philosophy, is a powerful factor in helping men Godward. Also that many find their only help
in authority and the faith of others. All these the Church has to provide for. It is no easy
task to be prophet and conservative custodian at the same time.

THE NEW AND BETTER SPIRIT

One great trouble with tying one's self to any one church, from my peripatetic point of view,
has always been the fact that so many other churches say, "If you are not one of us, you are
against us." It is almost too personal to illustrate this from my own somewhat sad experience
in my early days, but every worker in wide fields must have felt it. Jesus had specially to
rebuke his own disciples for forbidding any man from casting out devils. For whatever his opinions,
he must be on our side.

Thank God there is a new spirit entering the churches, a larger spirit! Only those can survive
eventually who cultivate it. A spirit that wants to use every effort to raise humanity, and
seeks a return for its outstretched hand, solely in the fact that it thereby grasps more of
those of "his brethren."

THE ONLY RIGHT WAY TO GROW

This is the way for a church to grow. The more it exercises its muscles in pulling men out
of their pits, the more dexterous, powerful, and altogether desirable it will be, because the
world will need it, and it will no longer appeal only to those who prefer its form of worship
or have a bias towards its particular church polity. The law of demand and supply should be
recognized as applying equally to the church as to other agencies. The desire to be needed,
to find work, and not merely to be a big party product can alone develop communions able to
remove the stigma of being either parasites or fads.

If a church is really anxious to fulfil its functions as set down in the only book of instructions
for each of them; if it wants to call forth latent energy, as a Washington from his homestead,
or a Lincoln from his farm, it must cease to lay stress on orthodoxy and get to work where
the world really needs it. A surgeon may be ever so correct in his knowledge of operative surgery,
but he must find a practise or he is useless. It is not so much for holding services, as for
rendering services, that the world is looking to the Church today.

HUMAN NEED THE TRUE OBJECTIVE

Today the Church should not only have a message for the strong and well. In Christ's day it
had a message for the sick and suffering also. I admit that the medical profession has neglected
too much the influence that mind has over matter. It therefore frequently endeavors to treat
a human being as if he was nothing but a conglomeration of material cells. But the Church,
it seems to me, is making an infinitely more serious mistake in entirely abandoning the valuable
aid it can give the physician when he has found that no organic cause accounts for the symptoms
of his patient. What is known in America as the Emmanuel Movement has my entire sympathy. It
is an honest effort of sane men to bring to the aid of physical sufferers demonstratively valuable
spiritual influences.

THE MINISTER ONLY A SERVANT

The priest or minister is the navigating lieutenant of the Church ship. He is the tactician
of the army. He is the specialist whose experience is invaluable. He is not called to be one
whit holier than I am, but being on a lofty pedestal he will possibly be more closely watched.
His, indeed, is a pitiable condition if he has not the spirit of his Master. His creed may
seem infallible, his faith most orthodox, but for my part I would rather not be so sure of
what I did believe, and pray with "the man after God's own heart," "Teach me to do the thing
which pleases thee." This is a sure step on the road to the answer of, "Lord, I believe, help
thou mine unbelief." I am convinced there would be no lack of worthy candidates for the ministry
if only the churches would lay more stress on the infinite privilege of human service it opens
up. There are more medical students than are needed.

THE FUTILITY OF THE INTELLECTUAL TEST

Is it then a necessity, or an advisable thing, that before a man can become a worker with the
Church he must pass an intellectual test? Is it imperative for him to find exactly what he
does not believe? That makes it almost impossible for him to get back afterwards. The effect
on the unfortunate heathen of warring messengers, all calling for different faith tests for
membership in Christ's Church, has always seemed to me little short of disastrous. The theory
of Christianity wouldn't convince the heathen of the Congo that religion is desirable, or make
a Russian Jew wish to adopt Russian Christianity. The same applies to the Turkish views of
Austrian Christianity, or the attitude of the Indian of South America towards Christian Spain.
As for me, I am satisfied in my own work, and I think my Master was, with the faith that makes
a man anxious and willing to come and help me, ever believing that he that is not against us
is on our side.

Joshua, a servant of God if ever there was one, is often quoted as saying, "Decide," "Choose."
We must remember that what he said was, "Choose whom you will serve," not what your final belief
is going to be. Christ never sought for admirers, but for followers. The most voluble protestants
of their faith in Jesus as God's Son were devils. They knew it, but benefited little by it.
Thank God, Jesus never made the opposite of confessing our belief in him before men to be the
non-apprehension of his divinity, but always the denying and being ashamed of his service and
becoming a stumbling block. Though I know what a wonderful thing it is, as a source of power,
to be able to confess our faith in Jesus as the Son of God, and what infinite peace it affords
to have that confirmed by experience.

The shrewd judgment of Wall Street would not lend a man ten cents because he had been accepted
as a member of a church on confession of faith. Often enough members of the same church wouldn't
either, although they probably both would to a doer, like Livingstone. So let us abandon the
creed-judging of others. Jesus accepted the following of the adulterers, publicans, and the
harlots, and the man who has honest doubts may be a Christ follower or a Christian, who ever
says the contrary.

BANDED TOGETHER FOR MANLY SERVICE

I have always loved to think of Jesus Christ and to commend him as Master because he accepted
all who came--whether for comfort, for help, or for service. When a man sets to work on the
road that leads to heaven here, he will be tasting the sweetness of the believing that involves
everlasting life. In our Labrador work we form no church. Our fellow-workers pray and worship
in every denomination as the bias of their mind and temperament leads them to find peace and
comfort and strength best. Yet we are a definite body associated together for certain purposes.
These we believe are translations into action of our interpretation of our debt to God and
to our neighbor. In that sense are we not a true ecclesia?

Will it horrify my readers if I confess I have accepted doctors for our hospitals, nurses for
our districts, and workers of every type, and yet have never known which way they prefer to
worship? Nor have I ever played the censor on their right to help us by defining what they
ought to believe before I allowed them to set to work. Before a member joins the permanent
staff we must know he is in absolute sympathy with our aim to glorify God and serve our brother,
and that he or she is willing to give their best for that object. But that is all. I am fearless
to confess that I would enroll for a colleague in the clinics, which hold in their hands the
lives of my friends, a man who is facile princeps in the art of surgery rather than a second-rate
surgeon who can subscribe to the very same intellectual tenets as I do myself.

Our claim to be capable servants of our Master and reincarnations of his life is judged in
our little world by the good work we do; if as surgeons or nurses, by our skill; if as storekeepers
and labor employers, by the clean deals we give. If we are second-rate in our work all our
talking won't persuade men of our fitness for our position. Securus judicat orbis terrarum--and
to my mind God seeks first men diligent in business, fervent in spirit, serving the Lord.

All the sects have only the same work for the same Master to accomplish; it is through being
fellow-workers and not identical thinkers that love for all who love Christ must come. This
is unity. The camaraderie of a fighting force is not disturbed by the feeling that one is of
the cavalry, another of the infantry, a third of the artillery; or even, as has often been
shown in warfare, whether they are of different races, climes, or temperaments. There is nothing
like common work to beget intelligent love for your fellow.

How did Christ admit his members? By their profession of faith? I think not. By their readiness
to work? Yes. Those were workers he chose, every one of them. Did he wait until they could
say they believed, even that he was God's Son, before he sent them out to work? Not at all.
He said if you are willing to go out and work you will get faith by working and seeing others work.

In this way most men get faith now. The empirical method is the very best way to get it firmly
rooted. Experientia docet. "Now we believe, not because of what you say, but because we have
seen for ourselves." Did not Judas work with Jesus? Yet it is absurd to contend that Jesus
was "unequally yoked with unbelievers" on that account. At the end of Christ's life only Peter
seemed even to guess who he was, and his protestations were not even the asset he thought they
were. For a few minutes after he had openly, to Christ's face and before witnesses, asserted
his faith, Christ called him "Satan" and told him to get behind him. When he was in trouble
they every one ran away. They would never have done that from a handful of soldiers if they
had honestly believed he was the very Son of God. When I want more help it is to this wide
Church I go to look for it, and I have never looked in vain. As a man loves the members of
his family, so I love the Church of God. For resources it stands to me as a permanent war office
stands to an army in the field. Fine uniforms and titles are of little moment as compared with
wisdom and efficiency for supplying men and sinews for war. We fully value the great leaders
in our home country, and we also love our "Bobs" or our "Wellington" because when called on
they are willing to march in the front rank themselves.

As a peripatetic worker myself during open water in my little hospital ship, and in winter
with dogs and sleigh, I recognize that it is but transient help which I can give alone. So
I love the little hospitals, which speak of permanence. When a call for help comes for me,
often enough my place is vacant. But the cheery haven of refuge is always there.

The grip of fellowship the visible churches give us on our homeland visits is a real factor
in our work. It makes them real sharers in it. And I thank God for the real Church of God.
I realize as never before how essential that is. Besides all this, she stands as a great reminder
of God to the world. "Lest we forget. Lest we forget."

My last is purely a private confession, and it is this: If it were only through association,
I love also that organization within God's Church of which I am myself a humble member. It
is because I love it I am willing to write exactly as I feel. For I love it enough to wish
with all my heart and soul and strength that God might be able to use it to a fuller capacity,
as with open eyes and unprejudiced heart and with wisdom developing by experience it becomes
willing to see that IT also must have its scrap heap, or its museum for honorable antiquities,
on which to lay aside the weights that are impeding it in the race, which are crippling its
usefulness, and which are bound eventually to destroy it if it blindly continues to cling to them.

The qualification for life eternal is to have done well. The final test is to be ethical, not
theological. I expect to find more roads leading into the Golden City than many seem even to
wish for. After the school day of life I look for an ecclesia, a mighty host, called out for
more perfect service.

