'Stop!' interrupted the philosopher. 'Was it a butterfly? Now I come to think of it, I hardly
know whether to refer it to the lepidoptera or not. At all events, it is a striking example
of the manner in which natural and sexual selection, continued through a series of epochs,
can evolve the most brilliant and graceful combinations of tint and plumage, by simple survival
of the favourable variations.'

'It is indeed,' suggested the theologian, 'a remarkable proof of the intelligent construction
of the universe, and of the argument from design, that this insect should have been framed
with such exquisite perfection of form and colour to delight the eyes of the theologian.'

'Not at all,' said the professor irritably. 'It was to delight the eyes of butterflies of the
opposite sex. It is no more an argument from design than I am!'

'Do stop that!' said the poet. 'How can a fellow write a sonnet with you two for ever sparring
away at your musty scholasticisms? Haven't we heard enough about Paley and Darwin? You have
frightened away the fairy between you, and that is plenty of mischief for one day.

'Fair denizen of deathless ether, doomed For one brief hour to languish and repine.

Entombed? That will do, but I'm afraid there are not many more rhymes to "doomed." "Loomed,"
"boomed," "exhumed," "well-groomed." My thoughts won't flow, hang it all!'

'You are an argument for design,' said the theologian, taking no notice of the poet, 'though
you won't admit it. Why won't you take up with my scientific religion?--a religion, you know,
that can be expressed with equal facility by emotional or by mathematical terms. It is as easy,
when you once understand it, as the first proposition in Euclid. You have two points, Faith
and Reason, and you draw a straight line between them. Then you must describe an equilateral
triangle--I mean a scientific religion, on the straight line, F R--between Faith and Reason.'

'Oh!' said the professor. 'How do you do it?'

'First,' said the theologian hopefully, 'taking F as your centre, F R as your radius, describe
the circle of Theology. Then, taking R as your centre, F R as your radius, describe the circle
of Logic. These two circles will intersect at Science, indicated in the proposition by the
point S. Join together S F, and then join S R, and you will have the equilateral triangle of
a scientific religion on the line F R S.'

'Prove it,' said the professor grimly.

'Science and Faith,' replied the theologian readily, 'equal Faith and Reason, because they
are both radii of the same circle, Man being the Radius of the Infinite. Theology--'

'Stop!' ejaculated the professor in the utmost indignation. 'What do you mean by it? I never
in my life listened to such unmitigated nonsense. Who gave you leave to talk of a scientific
religion as an equilateral triangle? If it is a triangle at all, which there is not the remotest
reason to suppose--but I cannot argue with you? You might as well call it a dodecahedron, or
the cube root of minus nothing.'

'Oh, very well,' said the theologian with exasperating coolness. 'I thought it possible that
even your blind prejudice might not refuse to listen to a simple mathematical demonstration
of the possibility of a true scientific religion, but I find that I was mistaken. I am not
annoyed--not at all. I prefer to look with lenity upon this outburst of passion, which might,
I admit, have roused the anger of a theologian of the old school. But, believe me, I personally
feel towards you no enmity--only the profoundest compassion.'

Inarticulate sound from the professor.

