Galvanometer, Differential. A galvanometer in which the needle is acted on by two coils wound
in opposition, each of equal deflecting action and of equal resistance. If a current is divided
between two branches or parallel conductors, each including one of the coils, when the needle
points to zero the resistances of the two branches will bc equal. In the cut, C C' represent
the coils, and A and B the two leads into which the circuit, P Q, is divided.

269  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Fig. 180. THEORY OF DIFFERENTIAL GALVANOMETER.

Fig. 181. DIFFERENTIAL GALVANOMETER.

Galvanometer, Direct Reading. A calibrated galvanometer, whose scale is graduated by volts
or amperes, instead of degrees.

Galvanometer, Marine. (Sir William Thomson's.) A galvanometer of the reflecting type, for use
on shipboard. A fibre suspension is adopted for the needle. The fibre is attached to a fixed
support at one end and to a spring at the other, and the needle is suspended by its centre
of gravity. This secures it to a considerable extent from disturbance due to the rolling of
the ship. A thick iron box encloses the needle, etc., to cut off any magnetic action from the
ship. (See Galvanometer, Reflecting.)

Galvanometer, Potential. A galvanometer wound with fine German silver wire to secure high resistance
used for determination of potential difference.

Galvanometer, Proportional. A galvanometer so constructed that the deflections of its index
are proportional to the current passing. It is made by causing the deflecting force to increase
as the needle is deflected, more and more, or by causing the restitutive force to diminish
under like conditions, or by both. The condition is obtained in some cases by the shape and
position of the deflecting coils.

Galvanometer, Quantity. A galvanometer for determining quantities of electricity, by the deflections
produced by discharging the quantities through their coils. It is a ballistic galvanometer
with very little or no damping.

270   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Fig. 182. PRINCIPLE OF REFLECTING GALVANOMETER.

Fig. 183. REFLECTING GALVANOMETER.

Galvanometer, Reflecting. A galvanometer the deflections of whose needle are read by an image
projected by light reflected from a mirror attached to the needle or to a vertical wire carrying
the needle. A lamp is placed in front of the instrument facing the mirror. The light of the
lamp is reflected by the mirror upon a horizontal scale above the lamp. An image of a slit
or of a wire may be caused thus to fall upon the scale, the mirror being slightly convex, or
a lens being used to produce the projection.

271  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

If the mirror swings through a horizontal arc, the reflected image will move, in virtue of
a simple geometrical principle, through an arc of twice as many degrees. The scale can be placed
far from the mirror, so that the ray of light will represent a weightless index of very great
length, and minute deflections of the needle will be shown distinctly upon the scale.

In the cut, Fig. 182, the ray of light from the lamp passes through the aperture, m m, and
is made parallel by the lens, L. At s is the mirror attached to the needle and moving with
it. A scale placed at t receives the reflection from the mirror. The cut, Fig. 183, shows one
form of the instrument set up for use.

Synonym--Mirror Galvanometer.

Galvanometer Shunt. To prevent too much current passing through a galvanometer (for fear of
injury to its insulation) a shunt is sometimes placed in parallel with it. The total current
will be distributed between galvanometer and shunt in the inverse ratio of their respective
resistances. (See Multiplying Power of a Shunt.)

272   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Fig. 184. SINE GALVANOMETER.

Galvanometer, Sine. A galvanometer whose measurements depend upon the sine of the angle of
deflection produced when the coil and needle lie in the same vertical plane.

The needle, which may be a long one, is surrounded by a coil, which can be rotated about a
vertical axis passing through the point of suspension of the needle. Starting with the needle
at rest in the plane of the coil, a current is passed through the coil deflecting the needle,
the coil is swung around deflecting the needle still more, until the needle lies in the plane
of the coil; the intensity of the current will then be in proportion to the sine of the angle
through which the coil and needle move.

In the galvanometer M is a circle carrying the coil, N is a scale over which the needles, m
and n, move, the former being a magnetic needle, the latter an index at right angles and attached
thereto; a and b are wires carrying the current to be measured. The circles, M and N, are carried
by a base, O, around which they rotate. H is a fixed horizontal graduated circle. In use the
circle, M, is placed in the magnetic meridian, the current is passed through the coil, M; the
needle is deflected; M is turned until its plane coincides with the direction of the needle,
m. The current strength is proportional to the sine of the angle of deflection. This angle
is measured by the vernier, C, on the circle, H. The knob, A, is used to turn the circle, M.

273  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Fig. 185. TANGENT GALVANOMETER.

Galvanometer, Tangent. A galvanometer in which the tangents of the angles of deflection are
proportional to the currents producing such deflections.

For this law to apply the instrument in general must fulfill the following conditions:

(1) The needle must be controlled by a uniform magnetic field such as that of the earth;

(2) the diameter of the coil must be large compared to the length of the needle;

(3) the centre of suspension of the needle must be at the centre of the coil;

(4) the magnetic axis of the needle must lie in the plane of the coil when no current is passing.

If a single current strength is to be measured the best results will be attained when the deflection
is 45°; in comparing two currents the best results will be attained when the deflections as
nearly as possible are at equal distances on both sides of 45°.

The needle should not exceed in length one-tenth the diameter of the coil.

For very small deflections any galvanometer follows the law of tangential deflection.

As for very small deflections the tangents are practically equal to the arcs subtended, for
such deflections the currents are proportional to the deflections they produce.

The sensibility is directly proportional to the number of convolutions of wire and inversely
proportional to their diameter.

The tangent law is most accurately fulfilled when the depth of the coil in the radial direction
is to the breadth in the axial direction as squareRoot(3):squareRoot(2), or about as 11:9.

Galvanometer, Torsion. A galvanometer whose needle is suspended by a long filament or by a
thread and spiral spring against whose force of torsion the movements of the needle are produced.
The current strength is determined by bringing the needle back to its position of rest by turning
a hand-button or other arrangement. The angle through which this is turned gives the angle
of torsion. From this the current strength is calculated on the general basis that it is proportional
to the angle of torsion.

Fig. 186. TORSION GALVANOMETER.

274   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Galvanometer, Vertical. A galvanometer whose needle is mounted on a horizontal axis and is
deflected in a vertical plane. One of the poles is weighted to keep it normally vertical, representing
the control. It is not used for accurate work.

Synonym--Upright Galvanometer.

Fig. 187. VERTICAL GALVANOMETER.

Galvanometer, Volt- and Ampere-meter. A galvanometer of Sir William Thomson's invention embodying
the tangent principle, and having its sensibility adjustable by moving the magnetic needle
horizontally along a scale (the "meter") towards or away from the coil. A curved magnet is
used to adjust the control. The leads are twisted to prevent induction.

The instrument is made with a high resistance coil for voltage determinations, and with a low
resistance coil for amperage determinations.

At one end of a long base board a vertical coil with its plane at right angles to the axis
of the board is mounted. A scale (the "meter" of the name) runs down the centre of the board.
A groove also runs down the centre. The magnetic needle is contained in a quadrant-shaped glass-covered
box which slides up and down the groove. A number of short parallel needles mounted together,
with an aluminum pointer are used.

Fig. 188. SIR WILLIAM THOMSON'S AMPERE-METER GALVANOMETER.

275   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

In the cut P is the base board, M is a glass covered case containing the magnetic needle, and
sliding along the base board, being guided by the central groove, C, is the coil. Between the
coil and the needle is the arched or bent controlling magnet. The long twisted connecting wires
are seen on the right hand.

Galvano-plastics. The deposition of metals by electrolysis, a disused term replaced by electro-deposition,
electroplating, and electro-metallurgy.

Galvano-puncture. An operation in medical electricity. (See Electro-puncture.)

Galvanoscope. An instrument, generally of the galvanometer type, used for ascertaining whether
a current is flowing or not. Any galvanoscope, when calibrated, if susceptible thereof, becomes
a galvanometer.

Gas, Electrolytic. Gas produced by the decomposition, generally of water, by electrolysis.
It may be hydrogen or oxygen, or a mixture of the two, according to how it is collected. (See
Gases, Mixed.)

Gases, Mixed. The mixture of approximately one volume of oxygen and two volumes of hydrogen
collected in the eudiometer of a gas voltameter or other electrolytic apparatus.

Gassing. The evolution of gas from the plates of a storage battery in the charging process,
due to too high voltage in the circuit of the charging dynamo.

Gastroscope. An apparatus for illuminating by an incandescent lamp the interior of the stomach,
and with prisms to refract the rays of light so that the part can be seen. The stomach is inflated
with air, if desirable, to give a better view. An incandescent platinum spiral in a water jacket
has been employed for the illumination.

Gassiot's Cascade. A goblet lined for half its interior surface with tinfoil. It is placed
in the receiver of an air pump from the top of whose bell a conductor descends into it, not
touching the foil. On producing a good rarefaction, and discharging high tension electricity
from between the conductor just mentioned and the metal of the machine, a luminous effect is
produced, as if the electricity, pale blue in color, was overflowing the goblet.

Gauss. A name suggested for unit intensity of magnetic field. Sylvanus P. Thomson proposed
for its value the intensity of a field of 1E8 C. G. S. electro-magnetic units. J. A. Fleming
proposed the strength of field which would develop one volt potential difference in a wire
1E6 centimeters long, moving through such field with a velocity of one centimeter per second.
This is one hundred times greater than Thomson's standard. Sir William Thomson suggested the
intensity of field produced by a current of one ampere at a distance of one centimeter

The gauss is not used to any extent; practical calculations are based on electro-magnetic lines
of force.

276   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Gauss' Principle. An electric circuit acts upon a magnetic pole in such a way as to make the
number of lines of force that pass through the circuit a maximum.

Fig. 189. GAUSS' TANGENT POSITION.

Gauss, Tangent Positions of. The "end on" and "broadside" methods of determining magnetization
involve positions which have been thus termed. (See Broadside Method and End on Method.)

Gear, Magnetic Friction. Friction gear in which the component wheels are pressed against each
other by electromagnetic action. In the cut, repeated from Adherence, Electro-magnetic, the
magnetizing coil makes the wheels, which are of iron, press strongly together.

Fig. 190. MAGNETIC FRICTION GEAR.

277   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Geissler Tubes. Sealed tubes of glass containing highly rarefied gases, and provided with platinum
electrodes extending through the glass tightly sealed as they pass through it, and often extending
a short distance beyond its interior surface.

On passing through them the static discharge luminous effects are produced varying with the
degree of exhaustion, the contents (gas), the glass itself, or solutions surrounding it. The
two latter conditions involve fluorescence phenomena often of a very beautiful description.

The pressure of the gas is less than one-half of a millimeter of mercury. If a complete vacuum
is produced the discharge will not pass. If too high rarefaction is produced radiant matter
phenomena (see Radiant State) occur.

Geissler tubes have been used for lighting purposes as in mines, or for illuminating the interior
cavities of the body in surgical or medical operations.

Generating Plate. The positive plate in a voltaic couple, or the plate which is dissolved;
generally a plate of zinc.

Synonyms--Positive Plate--Positive Element.

Generator, Current. Any apparatus for maintaining an electric current. It may be as regards
the form of energy it converts into electrical energy, mechanical, as a magneto or dynamo electric
machine or generator; thermal, as a thermo-electric battery; or chemical, as a voltaic battery;
all of which may be consulted.

Generator, Secondary. A secondary or storage battery. (See Battery, Secondary.)

German Silver. Owing to
its high resistance and moderate cost and small variation in resistance
with change of temperature, it is much used for resistances.
  1 meter long, weighing 1 gram,          1.830    "
  1 meter long, 1 millimeter thick,       0.2666   "
  Resistance of a 1 inch cube at 0°C. (32° F.),   8.240 microhms.

Approximate percentage increase of resistance per 1° C. (1.8° F.) at about 20° C. (68° F.),
0.044 per cent.

Gilding, Electro-. The deposition of gold by an electric current, or electrolytically in the
electroplating bath.

Gilding Metal. A special kind of brass, with a high percentage of copper, used to make objects
which are to be gilded by electrolysis.

278   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Gimbals. A suspension used for ships' compasses and sometimes for other apparatus. It consists
of a ring held by two journals, so as to bc free to swing in one plane. The compass is swung
upon this ring, being placed concentrically therewith. Its journals are at right angles to
those of the ring. This gives a universal joint by which the compass, weighted below its line
of support, is always kept horizontal.

Fig. 191. COMPASS SUSPENDED IN GIMBALS.

Glass. A fused mixture of silicates of various oxides. It is of extremely varied composition
and its electric constants vary greatly. Many determinations of its specific resistance have
been made. For flint glass at 100° C. (212° F.) about (2.06E14) ohms --at 60° C (140° F.) (1.020E15)
(Thomas Gray) is given, while another observer (Beetz) gives for glass at ordinary temperatures
an immeasurably high resistance. It is therefore a non-conductor of very high order if dry.
As a dielectric the specific inductive capacity of different samples of flint glass is given
as 6.57--6.85--7.4--10.1 (Hopkinson), thus exceeding all other ordinary dielectrics. The densest
glass, other things being equal, has the highest specific inductive capacity.

Gold. A metal, one of the elements; symbol Au. c .; atomic weight, 196.8; equivalent, 65.6;
valency, 3; specific gravity 19.5. It is a conductor of electricity.

                                            Annealed.   Hard drawn.
(c) 1 meter long, weighing 1 gram,            .4035     .4104  "
(d) 1 meter long, 1 millimeter thick,         .02620    .02668 "
Resistance of a 1 inch cube at 0° C.(32° F.)  .8102     .8247

Approximate increase in resistance per 0° C., (1.8° F) at about 20° C. (68° F.), 0.365 per cent.

Electro-chemical equivalent (Hydrogen = .0105), .6888

279   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Gold Bath. A solution of gold used for depositing the metal in the electroplating process.

A great number of formulae have been devised, of which a few
representative ones are given here.
                            COLD BATHS.              HOT BATHS.
Water,               10,000   10,000   10,000   10,000   5,000   3,000
Potassium Cyanide,      200       --      200       10      --      50
Gold,                   100       15      100       10      10      10
Potassium Ferrocyanide,  --      200       --       --     150      --
Potassium Carbonate,     --      150       --       --      50      --
Ammonium Chloride,       --       30       --       --      20      --
Aqua Ammoniae,           --       --      500       --      --      --
Sodium Phosphate,        --       --       --      600      --      --
Sodium Bisulphite,       --       --       --      100      --      --

(Roseleur.)

In the baths the gold is added in the form of neutral chloride, Auric chloride (Au Cl6).

Gold Stripping Bath. A bath for removing gold from plated articles without dissolving the base
in order to save the precious metal. A bath of 10 parts of potassium cyanide and 100 parts
of water may be used, the articles to be stripped being immersed therein as the anode of an
active circuit. If the gilding is on a silver or copper basis, or on an alloy of these metals
the same solution attacks the base and dissolves it, which is objectionable. For silver articles
it is enough to heat to cherry red and throw into dilute sulphuric acid. The gold scales off
in metallic spangles. For copper articles, a mixture of 10 volumes concentrated sulphuric acid,
1 volume nitric acid, and 2 volumes hydrochloric acid may be used by immersion only, or with
a battery. The sulphuric acid in such large excess is supposed to protect the copper. For copper
articles concentrated sulphuric acid alone with the battery may be used. This does not sensibly
attack the copper if it is not allowed to become diluted. Even the dampness of the air may
act to dilute it.

Graduator. Apparatus for enabling the same line to be used for telegraph signals and telephoning.

One type consists in coils with iron cores or simply electromagnets. These act to retard the
current in reaching its full power and also prolong it. This gives a graduated effect to the
signals, so that the telephone diaphragm is not audibly affected by the impulses.

The telephoning current is so slight and so rapid in its characteristic changes that it is
without effect upon the ordinary telegraph.

280   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Gram. The unit of weight in the metric system; accepted as the unit of mass in the absolute
of C. G. S. system of units. It is the one-thousandth part of mass of a standard weight preserved
under proper conditions in Paris, and supposed to be the mass of a cubic decimeter of distilled
water at the temperature of the maximum density of water. The standard is the kilogram; the
temperature is 3.9º C. (39º F.). The standard kilogram is found to be not exactly the weight
of a cubic decimeter of water, the latter weighing 1.000013 kilogram.

