Regiments.              Colonels.             Men.
                               Brought forward     2900
Ogilvie                Lord Ogilvie                 500
Glenbucket             Gordon of Glen.              427
Perth,                 Duke of Perth (and
                         Pitsligo's foot)           750
Robertson              Robertson of Strowan         200
Maclachan              Mac. of Maclachan            260
Glencarnick            Macgregor                    300
Glengary               Macdonald of Glen., jun.     300
Nairn                  Lord Nairn                   200
Edinburgh              John Roy Stuart (and Lord
                         Kelly's)                   450
                       In several small corps      1000
                          {Lord Elcho           }
                   Horse  {                     }   160
                          {Lord Kilmarnock      }
                       Lord Pitsligo's Horse        140
                                                  -----
                                        Total      7587
                                                  -----

[94] "My grandfather," says General Stuart, "always wore tartans; truis, and with the plaid
thrown over the shoulder, when on horseback; and kilt, when on foot; and never any other clothes,
except when in mourning." App. XXII.

[95] Sketches of the Highlanders, by General Stuart of Garth. Vol. II. App. XXII. Also note.

[96] See the True Patriot, under the head Apocrypha, 1745.

[97] Stuart's Sketches, II. 76.

[98] Tales of a Grandfather, iii. 398.

[99] General Stuart's Sketches of the Highlanders, p. 67.

[100] State Trials, vol. xviii. p. 686.

[101] John Sobieski Stuart.

[102] Vestiarium Scoticum, p. 100, note. Edited by John Sobieski Stuart.

[103] These observations are all taken from the Notes to the Vestiarium Scoticum, a beautiful
work, extremely interesting, as being written by the hand of a Stuart, and full of information.

[104] Maxwell, p. 70.

[105] Baines's History of Lancashire, iv. 69.

[106] Tales of a Grandfather, iii. p. 98.

[107] Maxwell, p. 71.

[108] Tales of a Grandfather.

[109] Baines's Lancashire, ii. p. 71; also iii. p. 254.

[110] Gentleman's Magazine, vol. xv. p. 644.

[111] I omit Horace Walpole's exact expression, which is more witty than proper.

[112] Sketches of the Highlanders, by General Stewart, vol. ii. p. 257; also Georgian Era,
pp. 56, 57.

[113] Brown's Hist. of the Highlanders, vol. iii. p. 197.

[114] General Stewart, p. 233.

[115] Ibid. p. 246.

[116] Maxwell, p. 71.

[117] Chambers's Hist. of the Rebellion; Edition for the People, p. 54.

[118] Glover's Hist. of Derbyshire, vol. i. p. 32. There is, in Ashbourn church, an exquisite
monument, sculptured by Banks, and supposed to have given the notion of the figures in Lichfield
Cathedral to Chantry. A young girl, the only child of her parents, Sir Brook and Lady Boothby,
reposes on a cushion, not at rest, but in the uneasy posture of suffering. On the tablet beneath
are these words: "I was not in safety, neither had I rest, and the trouble came." To which
were added; "The unfortunate parents ventured their all on the frail bark, and the wreck was
total."--A history and an admonition.

[119] Maxwell, p. 72.

[120] Extract from the Derby Mercury. Glover's Hist. of Derbyshire, vol. ii. p. 1 to 420.

[121] Glover, vol. ii. pt. 415; from Hutton's Derby.

[122] Glover, vol. ii. pt. 1. p. 240.

[123] Glover, vol. ii. pt. i. p. 421. From the Derby Mercury, the first number of which was
issued March 23, 1732, by Mr. Samuel Drewry, Market-place. Appendix to Glover's Hist., 616.

[124] Probably the house wherein Lord George Murray was lodged, belonged to a member of the
Heathcote family, of Stoncliffe Hall, Darley Dale, Derbyshire.

[125] Tales of a Grandfather, iii. p. 103.

[126] Maxwell, p. 73.

[127] Lord George Murray's Narrative, Forbes, p. 55 and 56.

[128] Maxwell of Kirkconnell, p. 74.

[129] Chevalier Johnstone, p. 51.

[130] Ibid. p. 52.

[131] Chambers, p. 56, and Lord Elcho's MS.

[132] Maxwell, p. 75.

[133] Maxwell, p. 75 76.

[134] Maxwell, p. 76.

[135] Chevalier Johnstone, p. 157.

[136] Lord Mahon's History of England, vol. iii. p. 445.

[137] General Stewart's Sketches, vol. ii. p. 263.

[138] Lord Mahon, vol. iii. p. 446.

[139] Tales of a Grandfather, vol. iii. p. 107.

[140] Jacobite Memoirs, p. 57.

[141] Such is the account of a writer in the Derby Mercury, see Glover's History of Derby;
but this statement is at variance with Lord George Murray's Journal.

[142] The Grandmother of the Author.

[143] Tradition.

[144] Glover, vol. ii. pt. i. p. 422.

[145] Lord Elcho's MS.

[146] Glover, vol. ii. pt. i. p. 422.

[147] Maxwell, p. 80.

[148] This account is taken from Maxwell's narrative, p. 84 and 85; and from the Chevalier
Johnstone's Memoirs, p. 60 and 61.

[149] Jacobite Mem. p. 71.

[150] The Hussars, under the command of Lord Pitsligo, had gone off to Penrith.

[151] Jacobite Mem. p. 72.

[152] Note to General Stewart's Sketches, vol. i. p. 58.

[153] Maxwell.

[154] Jacobite Mem. p. 62.

[155] Maxwell, p. 88.

[156] Tales of a Grandfather, vol. iii. p. 125.

[157] Jacobite Mem. p. 74.

[158] Johnstone, p. 75.

[159] This statement tends somewhat to disprove the assertion that Roman Catholic priests occupied
the pulpits at Derby, made in the papers of the time. See p. 136

[160] Maxwell.

[161] Johnstone, p. 82.

[162] Maxwell p. 103.

[163] Lord Murray's Narrative, Forbes, p. 88.

[164] General Stuart, I., p. 78.

[165] Forbes; note, p. 94.

[166] Chambers's Hist. of the Rebellion, p. 70.

[167] Tales of a Grandfather, iii. 166.

[168] Forbes, p. 100. Maxwell, p. 115. See, also, for the references to the last eight pages,
Lord Mahon, Henderson, Chambers, and Home.

[169] Scots' Magazine, p. 138.

[170] Atholl Correspondence, p. 163. et passim.

[171] Tales of a Grandfather, vol. iii. p. 176.

[172] Maxwell, p. 131; also Forbes, p. 193.

[173] Lord George Murray's Journal. Forbes, p. 166. Johnstone's Memoirs, p. 116. Maxwell, p. 133.

[174] According to Lord Elcho's account (MS.), ten or twelve only were killed, and the rest
taken prisoners.

[175] Forbes' Johnstone.

[176] Grant of Rothiemurcus.

[177] Atholl Correspondence, p. 211.

[178] See vol. i.--Life of the Marquis of Tullibardine.

[179] Lord Elcho's MS.

[180] See a very curious account of the Siege of Blair Castle, written by a subaltern officer
in the King's Service. Scots' Magazine for 1808.

[181] Forbes, p. 108.

[182] Scots' Magazine, p. 33.

[183] Ibid.

[184] There was one horse which seemed endowed with supernatural strength, for when, eventually,
the Castle was relieved, the horse, which had been shut up without forage, was found, after
eight or ten days of abstinence, alive, and "wildly staggering about" in its confinement. It
was afterwards sent as a present by Captain Wentworth, to whom it belonged, to his sister in
England.

[185] See Forbes, p. 108, 109.

[186] Jacobite Correspondence, p. 217.

[187] Jacobite Correspondence, p. 218.

[188] Maxwell, p. 13.

[189] Maxwell, p. 134.

[190] These circumstances will be fully detailed in the Life of the Duke of Perth.

[191] Maxwell.

[192] Colonel Ker's Narrative, Forbes, p. 140 and 141.

[193] Lord Elcho's MS.

[194] Maxwell, p. 153.

[195] Lord Elcho's MS.

[196] Colonel Ker's Narrative, p. 142.

[197] Lord G. Murray's Account, Forbes, p. 124.

[198] Lord Elcho's MS.

[199] Lockhart, vol. ii. p. 533.

[200] Atholl Correspondence, p. 221.

[201] Brown's History of the Highlands, pt. v. p. 261.; from the Stuart Papers.

[202] See Stuart Papers. Brown, passim.

[203] Stuart Papers; from Dr. Brown.

[204] Secretary to the Chevalier St. George.

[205] Stuart Papers. Appendix. Brown, p. 95.

[206] Chambers. Ed. for the People, p. 141.

JAMES DRUMMOND, STYLED DUKE OF PERTH.

In a history of the House of Drummond, compiled in the year 1681, by Lord Strathallan, the
author thus addresses his relative, James, Earl of Perth, on the subject of their common ancestry:

"Take heire a view of youre noble and renowned ancestors, of whose blood you are descended
in a right and uninterrupted male line; as also of so many of the consanguinities and ancient
affinities of youre family in the infancy thereof, as the penury of our oldest records and
the credit of our best traditions has happily preserved from the grave of oblivion. The splendor
of your fame," he adds, "needs no commendation, more than the sune does to a candle; and even
a little of the truth from me may be obnoxious to the slander of flattery, or partiality, by
reason of my interest in it. Therefore I'll say the less; only this is generally known for
a truth, that justice, loyaltie, and prudence, which have been but incident virtues and qualities
in others, are all three as inherent ornaments, and hereditary in yours."[207]

Such praise far exceeds in value the mere homage to ancient lineage. With these noble qualities,
the race of Drummond combined the courage to defend their rights, and the magnanimity to protect
the feeble. This last characteristic is beautifully described in the following words:

"For justice, as a poor stranger, often thrust out of doors from great houses, where grandeur
and utility are commonly the idolls that's worshipped,--quid non mortalia pectora cogis?--has
always found sanctuary in yours, which has ever been ane encouragement to the good, a terror
to the bad, and free from the oppression of either."

To this magnanimous spirit were added loyalty to the sovereign, and prudence in the management
of private affairs; a virtue of no small price, for it rendered the House of Drummond independent
of Court favour, and gave to its prosperity a solid basis. "The chiefs of this family lived,"
says their historian, "handsomely, like themselves; and still improved or preserved their fortunes
since the first founder."

The origin of this race is, perhaps, as interesting as that of any of the Scottish nobility,
and has the additional merit of being well ascertained.

After the death of Edward the Confessor, the next claimant to the Crown, Edgar Atheling, alarmed
for his safety after the Norman Conquest, took shipping with his mother Agatha, and with his
two sisters, Margaret and Christiana, intended to escape to Hungary; but owing to a violent
storm, or, as the noble historian of the Drummonds well expresses it, "through Divine Providence,"
he was driven upon the Scottish coast, and forced to land upon the north side of the Firth
of Forth. He took shelter in a little harbour west of the Queen's Ferry, ever since called
St. Margaret's Hook, from Edgar's sister Margaret, who, for the "rare perfectiones of her body
and mind," was afterwards chosen by Malcolm Canmore, to the great satisfaction of the nation,
for his Queen. Margaret was therefore married to the Scottish monarch at Dunfermline in the
year 1066.

This alliance was not the only advantage derived by the young and exiled English King from
his accidental landing in Scotland. Penetrated with gratitude for former services conferred
upon himself by Edward the Confessor, Malcolm supported the cause of Edgar, and received and
bestowed upon his adherents lands and offices, in token of kindness to his royal guest. Hence
some of the most potent families in the kingdom had their origin.

Amongst the train of Edgar Atheling at Dunfermline was an Hungarian, eminent for his faithful
services, but especially for his skilful and successful conduct of the vessel in which the
fugitives had sailed from England. He was highly esteemed by the grateful Queen Margaret, who
recommended him to the King; and, for his reward, lands, offices, and a coat of arms suitable
to his quality, were conferred on him, together with the name of Drummond.

It was about this period that surnames were first introduced, and that patronymicks were found
insufficient to designate heroes. Since the new designations were often derived from some office,
as well as the possession of lands and peculiar attributes, the Hungarian obtained his name
in consequence of his nautical skill; Dromont, or Dromond, being, in different nations, the
name of a ship, whence the commander was called Dromount, or Dromoner.

The first lands bestowed upon the Hungarian were situated in Dumbartonshire, and in the jurisdiction
of the Lennox; a county full of rivers, lochs, and mountains, "emblematically expressed," says
Lord Strathallan, "in the coats of arms then given to him, wherein hunting, waters, hounds,
inhabitants wild and naked, are represented." To these gifts was added the office of Thane,
Seneschal, or Stuart Heritable of Lennox,--names all meaning the same thing, but altering with
the times.[208]

The Hungarian, whose Christian name is conjectured to have been Maurice, was then naturalized
a Scot; and all the parts of his coat-armour were contrived to indicate his adventures, his
name, office, and nation. He died in an encounter near Alnwick Castle, fighting valiantly,
in order to avenge the surprise of that place by William Rufus, in 1093.

The records of the family of Drummond were for several generations defective after the death
of Maurice; but there exists no doubt but that he was the founder of a family once so prosperous,
and afterwards so unfortunate. The name of Maurice was preserved, according to the Scottish
custom of naming the eldest son after his father, for many succeeding generations.

The family continued to increase in importance, and to enjoy the favour of royalty; and the
marriage of the beautiful Annabella Drummond to Robert the Third, King of Scotland, produced
an alliance between the House of Drummond and the royal families of Austria and Burgundy. In
1487 James the Third ennobled the race by making John Drummond, the twelfth chief in succession,
a Lord of Parliament. As the annals of the race are reviewed, many instances of valour, wisdom,
and unchangeable probity arise; whilst some events, which have the features of romance, diversify
the chronicle. Among these is the story of the fair Margaret Drummond, who has been celebrated
by several of our best historians.

Between Margaret and James the Fourth of Scotland an attachment existed. They were cousins;
and a pretext was made by the nobles and council, on that account, to prevent a marriage which
they alleged to be within the degrees of consanguinity permitted by the Canon law: nevertheless,
under promise of a marriage, Margaret consented to live with her royal lover, and the result
of that connexion was a daughter. This happened when James was only in his sixteenth year,
and whilst he was Duke of Rothsay; yet the monarch was so much touched in conscience by the
engagement, or betrothal, between him and the young lady, that he remained unmarried until
the age of thirty, about a year after the death of Margaret Drummond.

That event, it was surmised, was caused by poison; the common tradition being that a potion
was provided for Margaret at breakfast, in order to free the King from his bonds, that he might
"match with England." "But it so happened," says the narrative,[209] "that she called two of
her sisters, then with her in Drummond, to accompany her that morning, to wit, Lilias, Lady
Fleming, and a younger, Sybilla, a maid; whereby it fell out all the three were destroyed with
the force of the poyson. They ly burried in a curious vault covered with three faire blue marble
stones, joyned closs together, about the middle of the queir of the cathedral church of Dumblane;
for about this time the burial-place for the familie of Drummond at Innerpeffrie was not yet
built. The monument which containes the ashes of these three ladyes stands entire to this day,
and confirms the credit of this sad storie."

The daughter of Margaret Drummond, Lady Margaret Stuart, was well provided for by the King;
and was married, in the year 1497, to Lord Gordon, the eldest son of the Earl of Huntley, "a
gallant and handsome youth." From this union four noble families are descended; the Gordons,
Earls of Huntley; the Countess of Sutherland; the Countess of Atholl, who was the mother of
Lady Lovat; and Lady Saltoun. James the Fourth testified his regret for the death of his beloved
Margaret, and his solicitude for her soul's benefit, in a manner characteristic of his age
and character. In the Treasurer's accounts for February 1502-3, there occurs this entry, "Item,
to the priests that sing in Dumblane for Margaret Drummond, their quarter fee, five pounds:"
and this item, occurring regularly during the reign of James the Fourth, "Paid to two priests
who were appointed to sing masses for Margaret in the cathedral of Dumblane, where she was
buried," marks his remembrance of his betrothed wife.

One of the greatest ornaments of the ancient House of Drummond was William Drummond, a descendant
of the Drummonds of Carnock, son of Sir John Drummond of Hawthornden, and author of the "History
of the Five James's," Kings of Scotland.[210] The friend of Drayton, and of Ben Jonson, this
man of rare virtues presents one of the brightest examples of that class to which he belonged,
the Scottish country-gentleman. True-hearted, like the rest of his race, Drummond was never
called forth from a retirement over which virtue and letters cast their charms, except by the
commotions of his country. His grief at the death of Charles the First, whom he survived only
one year, is said to have shortened his days.

In 1605, the title of Earl of Perth was added to the other honours of the family of Drummond,[211]
who derived a still further accession of honour and repute by the probity and firmness of its
members in the great Rebellion. Like most of the other Scottish families of rank, they suffered
great losses, and fell into embarrassed circumstances on account of heavy fines exacted by
Oliver Cromwell. The house, Castle Drummond, was garrisoned by the Protector's troops, and
the estates were ravaged and ruined. Yet the valiant and true-hearted descendants of those
who had been thus punished for their allegiance, were ready again to adopt the same cause,
and to adhere to the same principles that had guided their forefathers.

In the person of James Drummond, fourth Earl of Perth, who succeeded his father the third Earl,
in 1675, several high honours were centred. He was made, by Charles the Second, Justice-General,
and afterwards Lord High Chancellor of Scotland. He continued to be a favourite with James
the Second; and in 1688, when James fled from England, the Earl of Perth, endeavouring to follow
him, was thrown into prison, first at Kirkaldy, and afterwards at Stirling, until the privy
council, upon his giving security for five thousand pounds, permitted him to follow his royal
master. From James, the Earl received the title of Duke, which his successors adopted, and
which was given to them by the Jacobite party, of which we find repeated instances in the letters
of Lord Mar. His son, Lord Drummond, succeeded to all the inconveniences which attend the partisans
of the unfortunate. Returning from France, in 1695, he was obliged to give security for his
good conduct, in a large sum. In consequence of the assassination plot, the vigilance of Government
was increased, and, in 1696, he was committed to Edinburgh Castle. During the reign of William,
a system of exaction was carried on with respect to this family.

"In a word," says the author of Lochiell's Memoirs, himself a Drummond, speaking of James Lord
Drummond, "that noble lord was miserably harassed all this reign. He represented a family which
had always been a blessing to the country where it resided; and he himself was possessed of
so many amiable qualities, that he was too generally beloved not to be suspected by such zealous
ministers. He was humble, magnificent, and generous; and had a certain elevation and greatness
of soul that gave an air of dignity and grandeur to all his words and actions. He had a person
well-turned, graceful and genteel, and was besides the most polite and best bred lord of his
age. His affability, humanity, and goodness gained upon all with whom he conversed; and as
he had many friends, so it was not known that he had any personal enemies. He had too much
sincerity and honour for the times. The crafty and designing are always apt to cover their
vices under the mask of the most noble and sublime virtues; and it is natural enough for great
souls to believe that every person of figure truly is what he ought to be, and that a person
of true honour thinks it even criminal to suspect that any he is conversing with is capable
of debasing[212] the dignity of his nature so low as to be guilty of such vile and ignoble
practices. None could be freer of these, or indeed of all other vices, than the noble person
I speak of. The fixed and unalterable principles of justice and integrity, which always made
the rules of his conduct, were transmitted to him with his blood, and are virtues inherent
and hereditary in the constitution of that noble family."[213]

Lord Drummond was afterwards engaged in the insurrection of 1715: he was attainted, but escaped
to France, and, dying in 1730, left the inheritance of estates which he had saved by a timely
precaution, and the empty title of Duke of Perth,[214] to his son James Drummond, the unfortunate
subject of this memoir.

Such was the character borne by the father of James, Duke of Perth. This ill-fated adherent
of the Stuarts was born on the eleventh of May 1713; and three months afterwards, on the twenty-eighth
of August, his father deemed it expedient to execute a deed conveying the family estates to
him, by which means the property, at that time, escaped forfeiture. Like many other young men
under similar circumstances, this young nobleman was educated at the Scottish College of Douay,
consistently with the principles of his family, who were at that time Roman Catholics.

In his twenty-first year, the young Duke of Perth came over to Scotland, and devoted himself,
in the absence of his father, to the management of his estate. It is probable that his own
inclinations might have led him to prefer the occupations of an elegant leisure to the turmoils
of contention; but, be that as it may, it was not reserved for the head of the House of Drummond
to rest contentedly in his own halls.

The nearest kinsmen of the young nobleman were active partisans of the Chevalier St. George.
His brother, Lord John Drummond who had been confirmed in all his devotion to the cause by
his education at Douay, had entered the service of the King of France, and had raised a regiment
called the Royal Scots, of which he was the Colonel. He was destined to take an active share
in the events to which all were at this time looking forward, some with dread, others with
impatience. But his influence was less likely to be permanent over his brother, than that of
the Duke's mother, whose wishes were all deeply engaged in behalf of James Stuart.

This lady, styled Duchess of Perth, was the daughter of George first Duke of Gordon, and of
Lady Elizabeth Howard, Duchess of Gordon, who, in 1711, had astonished the Faculty of Advocates
at Edinburgh by sending them a silver medal with the head of the Chevalier engraved upon it.
The Duchess of Perth inherited her mother's determined character and political principles;
for her adherence to which she eventually suffered, together with other ladies of rank, by
imprisonment.

These ties were strong inducements to the young Duke of Perth to take an active part in the
affair of 1745, and it is said to have been chiefly on his mother's persuasions that he took
his first step. But there was another individual, whose good-faith to the cause had been proved
by exertion and suffering; this was the brave William, Viscount Strathallan, who possessed
higher qualities than those of personal valour and loyalty. "His character as a good Christian,"
writes Bishop Forbes, "setting aside his other personal qualities and rank in the world, as
it did endear him to all his acquaintances, so did it make his death universally regretted."[215]

Lord Strathallan was the eldest surviving son of Sir John Drummond of Macheany, whom he had
succeeded in his estates; and, in 1711, became Viscount Strathallan, Lord Madertie, and Lord
Drummond of Cromlix, in consequence of the death of his cousin.[216] He had engaged in the
rebellion of 1715, and had been taken prisoner, as well as his brother, Mr. Thomas Drummond,
at the battle of Sheriff Muir; but no proceedings had been instituted against him. His escape
on that occasion, as well as the part which his kinsman, the Earl of Perth, took on that eventful
day, are thus alluded to in an old ballad entitled the Battle of the Sheriff Muir.

"To the tune of the 'Horseman's Sport.'

    "Lord Perth stood the storm; Seaforth, and lukewarm
    Kilsyth, and Strathallan, not sla', man,
    And Hamilton fled--the man was not bred,
    For he had no fancy to fa', man.
    So we ran, and they ran; and they ran, and we ran;
    And we ran, and they ran awa', man."[217]

Lord Strathallan joined the standard of Prince Charles in 1745, and afterwards acted an important
part in the events of that period. He was not only himself a zealous supporter of the Stuarts,
but was aided in no common degree by his wife, the eldest daughter of the Baroness Nairn and
of Lord William Murray,--in his schemes and exertions. Lady Strathallan inherited from her
mother, a woman of undoubted spirit and energy, the determination to act, and the fortitude
to sustain the consequences of her exertions. But there was still another individual, not to
specify various members of the same family, whose aid was most important to the cause of the
Jacobites.

This was Andrew Drummond, one of the family of Macheany, and uncle of Lord Strathallan. He
was the founder of the banking-house of Drummond at Charing Cross, which was formed, as it
has been surmised, for the express purpose of facilitating supplies to the partisans of the
Chevalier. This spirited member of the family remained unchanged in his principles during the
course of a life protracted until the age of eighty-one. His part in the great events of the
day was well known, and meanly avenged by Sir Robert Walpole, who, in the course of the insurrection,
caused a run upon the bank. The concern, backed by its powerful connections, stood its ground;
but the banker forgave not the minister. When the tumults of 1745 were at an end, Mr. Drummond
so far yielded to the dictates of prudence as to go to court: he was received by George the
Second, to whom he paid his obeisance. But when the minister, anxious to conciliate his stern
and formidable foe, advanced to offer him his hand, Mr. Drummond turned round, folded his hands
behind his back, and walked away. "It was my duty," he said afterwards, "to pay my respects
to his Majesty, but I am not obliged to shake hands with his minister!"

