VILLENOIX (Salomon de), son of a wealthy Jew named Salomon, who in his old age had married
a Catholic. Brought up in his mother's religion; he raised the Villenoix estate to a barony.
[Louis Lambert.]

VILLENOIX (Pauline Salomon de), born about 1800; natural daughter of the preceding. During
the Restoration, she was made to feel her origin. Her character and her superiority made her
an object of envy in her provincial circle. Her meeting with Louis Lambert at Blois was the
turning point in her life. Community of age, country, disappointments, and pride of spirit
brought them in touch--a reciprocated passion was the result. Mademoiselle Salomon de Villenoix
was going to marry Lambert, when the scholar's terrible mental malady asserted itself. She
was frequently able to avert the sick man's paroxysms; she nursed him, advised him, and guided
him, notably at Croisic, where at her suggestion Lambert related in letter-form the tragic
misfortunes of the Cambremers, which he had just learned. On her return to Villenoix, Pauline
took her fiance with her where she noted down and understood his last thoughts, sublime in
their incoherence; he died in her arms, and from that time forth she considered herself the
widow of Louis Lambert, whom she had buried in one of the islands of the lake park at Villenoix.
[Louis Lambert. A Seaside Tragedy.] Two years later, being sensibly aged, and living in almost
total retirement from the world at the town of Tours, but full of sympathy for weak mortals,
Pauline de Villenoix protected the Abbe Francois Birotteau, the victim of Troubert's hatred.
[The Vicar of Tours.]

VILQUIN, the richest ship-owner of Havre, during the Restoration, purchased the estates of
the bankrupt Charles Mignon, with the exception of a chalet given by Mignon to Dumay; this
dwelling, being in close proximity to the millionaire's superb villa, and being occupied by
the families of Mignon and Dumay, was the despair of Vilquin, Dumay obstinately refusing to
sell it. [Modeste Mignon.]

VILQUIN (Madame), wife of the preceding, had G.-C. d'Estourny as lover, previous to his amour
with Bettina-Caroline Mignon; by her husband she had three children, two of whom were girls.
The eldest of these, being richly endowed, was eventually Madame Francisque Althor. [Modeste
Mignon.]

VIMEUX, in 1824, an unassuming justice of the peace in a department of the North, rebuked his
son Adolphe for the kind of life he was leading in Paris. [The Government Clerks.]

VIMEUX (Adolphe), son of the preceding, in 1824, was copyist emeritus in Xavier Rabourdin's
bureau in the Finance Department. A great dandy, he thought only of his dress, and was satisfied
with meagre fare at the Katcomb's restaurant; he became a debtor of Antoine, the messenger
boy; secretly his ambition was to marry a rich old lady. [The Government Clerks.]

VINET had a painful career to start with; a disappointment crossed his path at the very outset.
He had seduced a Mademoiselle de Chargeboeuf, and he supposed that her parents would acknowledge
him as son-in-law, and endow their daughter richly; so he married her, but her family disowned
her, and he therefore had to rely on himself entirely. As an attorney at Provins, Vinet made
his mark by degrees; as head of the local opposition, with the aid of Goraud, he succeeded
in making use of Denis Rogron, a wealthy retired merchant, established the "Courrier de Provins,"
a Liberalist paper, adroitly defended the Rogrons against the charge of killing Pierrette Lorrain
by slow degrees, was elected to the Chamber of Deputies about 1830, and became also attorney-general,
and probably minister of justice. Absolutely controlled by her husband, rejected and sacrificed
by her family from the time of her marriage, Madame Vinet scarcely dared in the Rogrons' salon
to speak in defence of Pierrette Lorrain, their victim. [Pierrette.]

VINET (Olivier), son of the preceding couple, born in 1816. A magistrate, like his father,
began his career as deputy king's attorney at Arcis, advanced to the position of king's attorney
in the town of Mantes, and, still further, was deputy king's attorney, but now in Paris. Supported
by his father's influence, and being noted for his independent raillery, Vinet was dreaded
everywhere. Among the people of Arcis, he mixed only with the little coterie of government
officials, composed of Goulard, Michu, and Marest. [The Member for Arcis.] Being a rival of
Maitre Fraisier in the affections of Madame Vatinelle of Mantes, he resolved to destroy this
contestant in the race, and so thwarted his career. [Cousin Pons.] At the Thuilliers', on the
rue Saint-Dominique-d'Enfer, Paris, where he displayed his usual impertinence, Vinet was an
aspirant to the hand of Celeste Colleville, the heiress, who was eventually Madame Felix Phellion.
[The Middle Classes.]

VIOLETTE, a husbandman, tenanted in the department of Aube, near Arcis, the Grouage farm, that
was a part of the Gondreville estate, at the time that Peyrade and Corentin, in accordance
with Fouche's instructions, undertook the singular abduction of Senator Malin de Gondreville.
A miserly and deceitful man, this fellow Violette secretly aided with Malin de Gondreville
and the powers of the day against Michu, the mysterious agent of the Cinq-Cygne, Hauteserre,
and Simeuse families. [The Gondreville Mystery.]

VIOLETTE (Jean), a descendant of the preceding; hosier of Arcis in 1837; took in hand Pigoult's
business, as successor to Phileas Beauvisage. In the electoral stir of 1839, Jean Violette
seemed to be entirely at the disposal of the Gondreville faction. [The Member for Arcis.]

VIRGINIE, cook in the household of Cesar Birotteau, the perfumer, in 1818. [Cesar Birotteau.]

VIRGINIE, during the years 1835-1836, lady's maid, on the rue Neuve-des-Mathurins (at present
rue des Mathurins), Paris, to Marie-Eugenie du Tillet, who was at that time engrossed in righting
the imprudent conduct of Angelique-Marie de Vandenesse. [A Daughter of Eve.]

VIRGINIE, mistress of a Provencal soldier, who, at a later period, during Bonaparte's campaign
in Egypt, was lost for some time in a desert, where he lived with a female panther. The jealous
mistress was constantly threatening to stab her lover, and he dubbed her Mignonne, by antiphrasis;
in memory of her he gave the same name to the panther. [A Passion in the Desert.]

VIRGINIE, a Parisian milliner, whose hats were praised, for a consideration, by Andoche Finot
in his newspaper in 1821. [A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.]

VIRLAZ, a rich furrier of Leipsic, from whom his nephew, Frederic Brunner, inherited, about
the middle of Louis-Philippe's reign. In his lifetime this Jew, head of the house of Virlaz
& Co., had the fortune of Madame Brunner (first of the name) placed in the coffers of the Al-Sartchild
bank. [Cousin Pons.]

VISSARD (Marquis du), in memory of his younger brother, the Chevalier Rifoel du Vissard, was
created a peer of France by Louis XVIII., who entered him as a lieutenant in the Maison-Rouge,
and made him a prefect upon the dissolution of the Maison-Rouge. In December, 1799, he was
at the Vivetiere, and his impulsiveness was a contrast with the coolness of Marquis Alphonse
de Montauran, also called Le Gars. [The Chouans.] He took part in the battle of Quiberon, and,
in company with Boislaurier, took a leading part in the uprising of the Chauffeurs of Mortagne.
Several circumstances, indeed, helped to strengthen his Royalist inclinations. Fergus found
in Henriette Bryond des Tours-Minieres (Contenson, the spy), who secretly betrayed him. Like
his accomplices, Rifoel du Vissard was executed in 1809. At times during his anti-revolutionary
campaigns he assumed the name of Pierrot. [The Seamy Side of History.]

VISSEMBOURG (Duc de), son of Marechal Vernon; brother of the Prince de Chiavari; between 1835
and 1840 presided over a horticultural society, the vice-president of which was Fabien du Ronceret.
[Beatrix.]

VITAGLIANI, tenor at the Argentina, Rome, when Zambinella took the soprano parts in 1758. Vitagliani
was acquainted with J.-E. Sarrasine. [Sarrasine.]

VITAL, born about 1810, a Parisian hatter, who succeeded Finot Pere, whose store on rue du
Coq was very popular about 1845, and deservedly so, apparently. He amused J.-J. Bixiou and
Leon de Lora by his ridiculous pretensions. They wished him to supply S.-P. Gazonal with a
hat, and he proposed to sell him a hat like that of Lousteau. On this occasion Vital showed
them the head-covering that he had devised for Claude Vignon, who was undecided in politics.
Vital really pretended to make each hat according to the personality of the person ordering
it. He praised the Prince de Bethune's hat and dreamed of the time when high hats would go
out of style. [The Unconscious Humorists.]

VITAL (Madame), wife of the preceding, believed in her husband's genius and greatness. She
was in the store when the hatter received a call from Bixiou, Lora and Gazonal. [The Unconscious
Humorists.]

VITEL, born in 1776, Paris justice of the peace in 1845, an acquaintance of Doctor Poulain;
was succeeded by Maitre Fraisier, a protege of the Camusot de Marvilles. [Cousin Pons.]

VITELOT, partner of Sonet, the marble-cutter; designed tombstones. He failed to obtain the
contract for monuments to Marsay, the minister, and to Keller, the officer. It was given to
Stidmann. The plans made by Vitelot having been retouched, were submitted to Wilhelm Schmucke
for the grave of Sylvain Pons, who was buried in Pere-Lachaise. [Cousin Pons.]

VITELOT (Madame), wife of the preceding, severely rebuked an agent of the firm for bringing
in as a customer W. Schmucke, heir-contestant to the Pons property. [Cousin Pons.]

VIVET (Madeleine), servant to the Camusot de Marvilles; during nearly twenty-five years was
their feminine Maitre-Jacques. She tried in vain to gain Sylvain Pons for a husband, and thus
to become their cousin. Madeleine Vivet, having failed in her matrimonial attempts, took a
dislike for Pons, and persecuted him in a thousand ways. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life. Cousin
Pons.]

VOLFGANG,[*] cashier of Baron du Saint-Empire, F. de Nucingen, when this well-known Parisian
banker of rue Saint-Lazare fell madly in love with Esther van Gobseck, and when Jacques Falleix's
discomfiture occurred. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]

[*] He lived on rue de L'Arcade, near rue des Mathurins, Paris.

VORDAC (Marquise de), born in 1769, mistress of the rich Lord Dudley; she had by him a son,
Henry. To legitimize this child she arranged a marriage with Marsay, a bankrupt old gentleman
of tarnished reputation. He demanded payment of the interest on a hundred thousand francs as
a reward for his marriage, and he died without having known his wife. The widow of Marsay became
by her second marriage the well-known Marquise de Vordac. She neglected her duties as mother
until late in life, and paid no attention to Henri de Marsay except to propose Miss Stevens
as a suitable wife for him. [The Thirteen.]

VULPATO (La), noble Venetian, very frequently present in Fenice; about 1820 tried to interest
Emilio Memmi, Prince of Varese, and Massimilla Doni, Duchesse Cataneo, in each other. [Massimilla
Doni.]

VYDER, anagram formed from d'Ervy, and one of the three names taken successively by Baron Hector
Hulot d'Ervy, after deserting his wife. He hid under this assumed name, when he became a petition-writer
in Paris, in the lower part of Petite Pologne, opposite rue de la Pepiniere, on Passage du
Soleil, to-day called Galerie de Cherbourg. [Cousin Betty.]

                                  W

WADMANN, an Englishman who owned, near the Marville estate in Normandie, a cottage and pasture-lands,
which Madame Camusot de Marville talked of buying in 1845, when he was about to leave for England
after twenty years' sojourn in France. [Cousin Pons.]

WAHLENFER or WALHENFER, wealthy German merchant who was murdered at the "Red Inn," near Andenach,
Rhenish Prussia, October, 1799. The deed was done by Jean-Frederic Taillefer, then a surgeon
and under-assistant-major in the French army, who suffered his comrade, Prosper Magnan, to
be executed for the crime. Wahlenfer was a short, heavy-set man of rotund appearance, with
frank and cordial manners. He was proprietor of a large pin-manufactory on the outskirts of
Neuwied. He was from Aix-la-Chapelle. Possibly Wahlenfer was an assumed name. [The Red Inn.]

WALLENROD-TUSTALL-BARTENSTILD (Baron de), born in 1742, banker at Frankfort-on-the-Main; married
in 1804, his only daughter, Bettina, to Charles Mignon de la Bastie, then only a lieutenant
in the French army; died in 1814, following some disastrous speculations in cotton. [Modeste
Mignon.]

WATSCHILDINE, a London firm which did business with F. de Nucingen, the banker. On a dark autumn
evening in 1821, the cashier, Rodolphe Castanier, was surprised by the satanic John Melmoth,
while he was in the act of forging the name of his employer on some letters of credit drawn
on the Watschildine establishment. [Melmoth Reconciled.]

WATTEBLED, grocer in Soulanges, Bourgogne, in 1823; father of the beautiful Madame Plissoud;
was in middle class society; kept a store on the first floor of a house belonging to Soudry,
the mayor. [The Peasantry.]

WATTEVILLE (Baron de), Besancon gentleman of Swiss descent; last descendant of the well known
Dom Jean de Watteville, the renegade Abbe of Baumes (1613-1703); small and very thin, rather
deficient mentally; spent his life in a cabinet-maker's establishment "enjoying utter ignorance";
collected shells and geological specimens; usually in good humor. After living in the Comte,
"like a bug in a rug," in 1815 he married Clotilde-Louise de Rupt, who domineered over him
completely. As soon as her parents died, about 1819, he lived with her in the beautiful Rupt
house on rue de la Prefecture, a piece of property which included a large garden extending
along the rue du Perron. By his wife, the Baron de Watteville had one daughter, whom he loved
devotedly, so much, indeed, that he lost all authority over her. M. de Watteville died in 1836,
as a result of his fall into the lake on his estate of Rouxey, near Besancon. He was buried
on an islet in this same lake, and his wife, making great show of her sorrow, had erected thereon
a Gothic monument of marble like the one to Heloise and Abelard in the Pere-Lachaise. [Albert
Savarus.]

WATTEVILLE (Baronne de), wife of the preceding, and after his death of Amedee de Soulas. (See
Soulas, Madame A. de.)

