That is, the relative force being as 12 is to 10, the relative execution done was as 12 is
to 1, and the Epervier surrendered before she had lost a fifth of her crew. The case of the
Epervier closely resembles that of the Argus. In both cases the officers behaved finely; in
both cases, too, the victorious foe was heavier, in about the same proportion, while neither
the crew of the Argus, nor the crew of the Epervier fought with the determined bravery displayed
by the combatants in almost every other struggle of the war. But it must be added that the
Epervier did worse than the Argus, and the Peacock (American) better than the Pelican. [Footnote:
"Memoirs of Admiral Codrington," i, 322.] James states that after the first two or three broadsides
several carronades became unshipped, and that the others were dismounted by the fire of the
Peacock; that the men had not been exercised at the guns; and, most important of all, that
the crew (which contained "several foreigners," but was chiefly British; as the Argus was chiefly
American) was disgracefully bad. The Peacock, on the contrary, showed skilful seamanship as
well as excellent gunnery. In 45 minutes after the fight was over the fore-yard had been sent
down and fished, the fore-sail set up, and every thing in complete order again; [Footnote:
Letter of Capt. Warrington, April 29, 1814.] the prize was got in sailing order by dark, though
great exertions had to be made to prevent her sinking. Mr. Nicholson, first of the Peacock,
was put in charge as prize-master. The next day the two vessels were abreast of Amelia Island,
when two frigates were discovered in the north, to leeward. Capt. Warrington at once directed
the prize to proceed to St. Mary's, while he separated and made sail on a wind to the south,
intending to draw the frigates after him, as he was confident that the Peacock, a very fast
vessel, could outsail them. [Footnote: Letter of Capt. Warrington, May 4, 1814.] The plan succeeded
perfectly, the brig reaching Savannah on the first of May, and the ship three days afterward.
The Epervier was purchased for the U.S. navy, under the same name and rate. The Peacock sailed
again on June 4th, [Footnote: Letter of Capt. Warrington, Oct. 30, 1814.] going first northward
to the Grand Banks, then to the Azores; then she stationed herself in the mouth of the Irish
Channel, and afterward cruised off Cork, the mouth of the Shannon, and the north of Ireland,
capturing several very valuable prizes and creating great consternation. She then changed her
station, to elude the numerous vessels that had been sent after her, and sailed southward,
off Cape Ortegal, Cape Finisterre, and finally among the Barbadoes, reaching New York, Oct.
29th. During this cruise she encountered no war vessel smaller than a frigate; but captured
14 sail of merchant-men, some containing valuable cargoes, and manned by 148 men.

On April 29th, H.M.S. schooner Ballahou, 6, Lieut. King, while cruising off the American coast
was captured by the Perry, privateer, a much heavier vessel, after an action of 10 minutes'
duration.

The general peace prevailing in Europe allowed the British to turn their energies altogether
to America; and in no place was this increased vigor so much felt as in Chesapeake Bay where
a great number of line-of-battle ships, frigates, sloops, and transports had assembled, in
preparation for the assault on Washington and Baltimore. The defence of these waters was confided
to Capt. Joshua Barney, [Footnote: He was born at Baltimore, July 7, 1759; James, with habitual
accuracy, calls him an Irishman. He makes Decatur, by the way, commit the geographical solecism
of being born in "Maryland, Virginia."] with a flotilla of gun-boats. These consisted of three
or four sloops and schooners, but mainly of barges, which were often smaller than the ship's
boats that were sent against them. These gun-boats were manned by from 20 to 40 men each, and
each carried, according to its size, one or two long 24-, 18-, or 12-pounders. They were bad
craft at best; and, in addition, it is difficult to believe that they were handled to the fullest
advantage.

On June 1st Commodore Barney, with the block sloop Scorpion and 14 smaller "gun-boats," chiefly
row gallies, passed the mouth of the Patuxent, and chased the British schooner St. Lawrence
and seven boats, under Captain Barrie, until they took refuge with the Dragon, 74, which in
turn chased Barney's flotilla into the Patuxent, where she blockaded it in company with the
Albion, 74. They were afterward joined by the Loire, 38, Narcissus, 32, and Lasseur, 18, and
Commodore Barney moved two miles up St. Leonard's Creek, while the frigates and sloop blockaded
its mouth. A deadlock now ensued; the gunboats were afraid to attack the ships, and the ships'
boats were just as afraid of the gun-boats. On the 8th, 9th, and 11th skirmishes occurred;
on each occasion the British boats came up till they caught sight of Barney's flotilla, and
were promptly chased off by the latter, which, however, took good care not to meddle with the
larger vessels. Finally, Colonel Wadsworth, of the artillery, with two long 18-pounders, assisted
by the marines, under Captain Miller, and a few regulars, offered to cooperate from the shore
while Barney assailed the two frigates with the flotilla. On the 26th the joint attack took
place most successfully; the Loire and Narcissus were driven off, although not much damaged,
and the flotilla rowed out in triumph, with a loss of but 4 killed and 7 wounded. But in spite
of this small success, which was mainly due to Colonel Wadsworth, Commodore Barney made no
more attempts with his gun-boats. The bravery and skill which the flotilla men showed at Bladensburg
prove conclusively that their ill success on the water was due to the craft they were in, and
not to any failing of the men. At the same period the French gun-boats were even more unsuccessful,
but the Danes certainly did very well with theirs.

Barney's flotilla in the Patuxent remained quiet until August 22d, and then was burned when
the British advanced on Washington. The history of this advance, as well as of the unsuccessful
one on Baltimore, concerns less the American than the British navy, and will be but briefly
alluded to here. On August 20th Major-General Ross and Rear-Admiral Cockburn, with about 5,000
soldiers and marines, moved on Washington by land; while a squadron, composed of the Seahorse,
38, Euryalus, 36, bombs Devastation, Aetna, and Meteor, and rocket-ship Erebus, under Captain
James Alexander Gordon, moved up the Potomac to attack Fort Washington, near Alexandria; and
Sir Peter Parker, in the Menelaus, 38, was sent "to create a diversion" above Baltimore. Sir
Peter's "diversion" turned out most unfortunately for him: for, having landed to attack 120
Maryland militia, under Colonel Reade, he lost his own life, while fifty of his followers were
placed hors de combat and the remainder chased back to the ship by the victors, who had but
three wounded.

The American army, which was to oppose Ross and Cockburn, consisted of some seven thousand
militia, who fled so quickly that only about 1,500 British had time to become engaged. The
fight was really between these 1,500 British regulars and the American flotilla men. These
consisted of 78 marines, under Captain Miller, and 370 sailors, some of whom served under Captain
Barney, who had a battery of two 18's and three 12's, while the others were armed with muskets
and pikes, and acted with the marines. Both sailors and marines did nobly, inflicting most
of the loss the British suffered, which amounted to 256 men, and in return lost over a hundred
of their own men, including the two captains, who were wounded and captured, with the guns.
[Footnote: The optimistic Cooper thinks that two regular regiments would have given the Americans
this battle--which is open to doubt.] Ross took Washington and burned the public buildings;
and the panic-struck Americans foolishly burned the Columbia, 44, and Argus, 18, which were
nearly ready for service.

Captain Gordon's attack on Fort Washington was conducted with great skill and success. Fort
Washington was abandoned as soon as fired upon, and the city of Alexandria surrendered upon
most humiliating conditions. Captain Gordon was now joined by the Fairy, 18, Captain Baker,
who brought him orders to return from Vice-Admiral Cochrane; and the squadron began to work
down the river, which was very difficult to navigate. Commodore Rodgers, with some of the crew
of the two 44's, Guerriere and Java, tried to bar their progress, but had not sufficient means.
On September 1st an attempt was made to destroy the Devastation by fire-ships, but it failed;
on the 4th the attempt was repeated by Commodore Rodgers, with a party of some forty men, but
they were driven off and attacked by the British boats, under Captain Baker, who in turn was
repulsed with the loss of his second lieutenant killed, and some twenty-five men killed or
wounded. The squadron also had to pass and silence a battery of light field-pieces on the 5th,
where they suffered enough to raise their total loss to seven killed and thirty-five wounded.
Gordon's inland expedition was thus concluded most successfully, at a very trivial cost; it
was a most venturesome feat, reflecting great honor on the captains and crews engaged in it.

Baltimore was threatened actively by sea and land early in September. On the 13th an indecisive
conflict took place between the British regulars and American militia, in which the former
came off with the honor, and the latter with the profit. The regulars held the field, losing
350 men, including General Ross; the militia retreated in fair order with a loss of but 200.
The water attack was also unsuccessful. At 5 A.M. on the 13th the bomb vessels Meteor, Aetna,
Terror, Volcano, and Devastation, the rocket-ship Erebus, and the frigates Severn, Euryalus,
Havannah, and Hebrus opened on Fort McHenry, some of the other fortifications being occasionally
fired at. A furious but harmless cannonade was kept up between the forts and ships until 7
A.M. on the 14th, when the British fleet and army retired.

I have related these events out of their natural order because they really had very little
to do with our navy, and yet it is necessary to mention them in order to give an idea of the
course of events. The British and American accounts of the various gun-boat attacks differ
widely; but it is very certain that the gun-boats accomplished little or nothing of importance.
On the other hand, their loss amounted to nothing, for many of those that were sunk were afterward
raised, and the total tonnage of those destroyed would not much exceed that of the British
barges captured by them from time to time or destroyed by the land batteries.

The purchased brig Rattlesnake, 16, had been cruising in the Atlantic with a good deal of success;
but in lat. 40 deg. N., long. 33 deg. W., was chased by a frigate from which Lieutenant Renshaw,
the brig's commander, managed to escape only by throwing overboard all his guns except two
long nines; and on June 22d he was captured by the Leander, 50, Captain Sir George Ralph Collier,
K. C. B.

The third of the new sloops to get to sea was the Wasp, 22, Captain Johnston Blakely, which
left Portsmouth on May 1st, with a very fine crew of 173 men, almost exclusively New Englanders;
there was said not to have been a single foreign seaman on board. It is, at all events, certain
that during the whole war no vessel was ever better manned and commanded than this daring and
resolute cruiser. The Wasp slipped unperceived through the blockading frigates, and ran into
the mouth of the English Channel, right in the thick of the English cruisers; here she remained
several weeks, burning and scuttling many ships. Finally, on June 28th, at 4 A.M., in lat.
48 deg. 36' N., long. 11 deg. 15' W., [Footnote: Letter of Captain Blakely, July 8, 1814.]
while in chase of two merchant-men, a sail was made on the weather-beam. This was the British
brig-sloop Reindeer, 18, Captain William Manners, [Footnote: James, vi, 429.] with a crew of
118, as brave men as ever sailed or fought on the narrow seas. Like the Peacock (British) the
Reindeer was only armed with 24-pounders, and Captain Manners must have known well that he
was to do battle with a foe heavier than himself; but there was no more gallant seaman in the
whole British navy, fertile as it was in men who cared but little for odds of size or strength.
As the day broke, the Reindeer made sail for the Wasp, then lying in the west-southwest.

The sky was overcast with clouds, and the smoothness of the sea was hardly disturbed by the
light breeze that blew out of the northeast. Captain Blakely hauled up and stood for his antagonist,
as the latter came slowly down with the wind nearly aft, and so light was the weather that
the vessels kept almost on even keels. It was not till quarter past one that the Wasp's drum
rolled out its loud challenge as it beat to quarters, and a few minutes afterward the ship
put about and stood for the foe, thinking to weather him; but at 1.50 the brig also tacked
and stood away, each of the cool and skilful captains being bent on keeping the weather-gage.
At half past two the Reindeer again tacked, and, taking in her stay-sails, stood for the Wasp,
who furled her royals; and, seeing that she would be weathered, at 2.50, put about in her turn
and ran off, with the wind a little forward the port beam, brailing up the mizzen, while the
Reindeer hoisted her flying-jib, to close, and gradually came up on the Wasp's weather-quarter.
At 17 minutes past three, when the vessels were not sixty yards apart, the British opened the
conflict, firing the shifting 12-pound carronade, loaded with round and grape. To this the
Americans could make no return, and it was again loaded and fired, with the utmost deliberation;
this was repeated five times, and would have been a trying ordeal to a crew less perfectly
disciplined than the Wasp's. At 3.26 Captain Blakely, finding his enemy did not get on his
beam, put his helm a-lee and luffed up, firing his guns from aft forward as they bore. For
ten minutes the ship and the brig lay abreast, not twenty yards apart, while the cannonade
was terribly destructive. The concussion of the explosions almost deadened what little way
the vessels had on, and the smoke hung over them like a pall. The men worked at the guns with
desperate energy, but the odds in weight of metal (3 to 2) were too great against the Reindeer,
where both sides played their parts so manfully. Captain Manners stood at his post, as resolute
as ever, though wounded again and again. A grape-shot passed through both his thighs, bringing
him to the deck; but, maimed and bleeding to death, he sprang to his feet, cheering on the
seamen. The vessels were now almost touching, and putting his helm aweather, he ran the Wasp
aboard on her port [Footnote: Letter of Captain Blakely, July 8, 1814. Cooper starboard: it
is a point of little importance; all accounts agree as to the relative positions of the craft.]
quarter, while the boarders gathered forward, to try it with the steel. But the Carolina captain
had prepared for this with cool confidence; the marines came aft; close under the bulwarks
crouched the boarders, grasping in their hands the naked cutlasses, while behind them were
drawn up the pikemen. As the vessels came grinding together the men hacked and thrust at one
another through the open port-holes, while the black smoke curled up from between the hulls.
Then through the smoke appeared the grim faces of the British sea-dogs, and the fighting was
bloody enough; for the stubborn English stood well in the hard hand play. But those who escaped
the deadly fire of the topmen, escaped only to be riddled through by the long Yankee pikes;
so, avenged by their own hands, the foremost of the assailants died, and the others gave back.
The attack was foiled, though the Reindeer's marines kept answering well the American fire.
Then the English captain, already mortally wounded, but with the indomitable courage that nothing
but death could conquer, cheering and rallying his men, himself sprang, sword in hand, into
the rigging, to lead them on; and they followed him with a will. At that instant a ball from
the Wasp's main-top crashed through his skull, and, still clenching in his right hand the sword
he had shown he could wear so worthily, with his face to the foe, he fell back on his own deck
dead, while above him yet floated the flag for which he had given his life. No Norse Viking,
slain over shield, ever died better. As the British leader fell and his men recoiled, Captain
Blakely passed the word to board; with wild hurrahs the boarders swarmed over the hammock nettings,
there was a moment's furious struggle, the surviving British were slain or driven below, and
the captain's clerk, the highest officer left, surrendered the brig, at 3.44, just 27 minutes
after the Reindeer had fired the first gun, and just 18 after the Wasp had responded.

Both ships had suffered severely in the short struggle; but, as with the Shannon and Chesapeake,
the injuries were much less severe aloft than in the hulls. All the spars were in their places.
The Wasp's hull had received 6 round, and many grape; a 24-pound shot had passed through the
foremast; and of her crew of 173, 11 were killed or mortally wounded, and 15 wounded severely
or slightly. The Reindeer was completely cut to pieces in a line with her ports; her upper
works, boats, and spare spars being one entire wreck. Of her crew of 118 men, 33 were killed
outright or died later, and 34 were wounded, nearly all severely.

                       COMPARATIVE FORCE.

                       Broadside    Weight    No.
               Tons.     Guns.      Metal.    Men.    Loss
Wasp,         509       11         315       173     26
Reindeer,     477       10         210       118     67

It is thus seen that the Reindeer fought at a greater disadvantage than any other of the various
British sloops that were captured in single action during the war; and yet she made a better
fight than any of them (though the Frolic, and the Frolic only, was defended with the same
desperate courage); a pretty sure proof that heavy metal is not the only factor to be considered
in accounting for the American victories. "It is difficult to say which vessel behaved the
best in this short but gallant combat." [Footnote: Cooper, ii, 287.] I doubt if the war produced
two better single-ship commanders than Captain Blakely and Captain Manners; and an equal meed
of praise attaches to both crews. The British could rightly say that they yielded purely to
heavy odds in men and metal; and the Americans, that the difference in execution was fully
proportioned to the difference in force. It is difficult to know which to admire most, the
wary skill with which each captain manoeuvred before the fight, the perfect training and discipline
that their crews showed, the decision and promptitude with which Captain Manners tried to retrieve
the day by boarding, and the desperate bravery with which the attempt was made; or the readiness
with which Captain Blakely made his preparations, and the cool courage with which the assault
was foiled. All people of the English stock, no matter on which side of the Atlantic they live,
if they have any pride in the many feats of fierce prowess done by the men of their blood and
race, should never forget this fight; although we cannot but feel grieved to find that such
men--men of one race and one speech; brothers in blood, as well as in bravery--should ever
have had to turn their weapons against one another.

The day after the conflict the prize's foremast went by the board, and, as she was much damaged
by shot, Captain Blakely burned her, put a portion of his wounded prisoners on board a neutral,
and with the remainder proceeded to France, reaching l'Orient on the 8th day of July.

On July 4th Sailing-master Percival and 30 volunteers of the New York flotilla [Footnote: Letter
of Com. J. Lewis, July 6, 1814.] concealed themselves on board a fishing-smack, and carried
by surprise the Eagle tender, which contained a 32-pound howitzer and 14 men, 4 of whom were
wounded.

On July 12th, while off the west coast of South Africa, the American brig Syren was captured
after a chase of 11 hours by the Medway, 74, Capt. Brine. The chase was to windward during
the whole time, and made every effort to escape, throwing overboard all her boats, anchors,
cables, and spare spars. [Footnote: Letter of Capt. Brine to Vice-Admiral Tyler, July 12. 1814.]
Her commander, Captain Parker, had died, and she was in charge of Lieut. N. J. Nicholson. By
a curious coincidence, on the same day, July 12th, H. M. cutter Landrail, 4, [Footnote: James,
vi, 436: his statement is wrong as regards the privateer.] of 20 men, Lieut. Lancaster, was
captured by the American privateer Syren, a schooner mounting 1 long heavy gun, with a crew
of 70 men; the Landrail had 7, and the Syren 3 men wounded.

On July 14th Gun-boat No. 88, Sailing-master George Clement, captured after a short skirmish
the tender of the Tenedos frigate, with her second lieutenant, 2 midshipmen, and 10 seamen.
[Footnote: Letter of Capt. Isaac Hull, July 15. 1814.]

The Wasp stayed in l'Orient till she was thoroughly refitted, and had filled, in part, the
gaps in her crew, from the American privateers in port. On Aug. 27th, Captain Blakely sailed
again, making two prizes during the next three days. On Sept. 1st she came up to a convoy of
10 sail under the protection of the Armada, 74, all bound for Gibraltar; the swift cruiser
hovered round the merchant-men like a hawk, and though chased off again and again by the line-of-battle
ship, always returned the instant the pursuit stopped, and finally actually succeeded in cutting
off and capturing one ship, laden with iron and brass cannon, muskets, and other military stores
of great value. At half past six on the evening of the same day, in lat. 47 deg. 30' N., long.
11 deg. W., while running almost free, four sail, two on the starboard bow, and two on the
port, rather more to leeward, were made out. [Footnote: Official letter of Capt. Blakely. Sept.
8, 1814.] Capt. Blakely at once made sail for the most weatherly of the four ships in sight,
though well aware that more than one of them might prove to be hostile cruisers, and they were
all of unknown force. But the determined Carolinian was not one to be troubled by such considerations.
He probably had several men less under his command than in the former action, but had profited
by his experience with the Reindeer in one point, having taken aboard her 12-pounder boat carronade,
of whose efficacy he had had very practical proof.

The chase, the British brig-sloop Avon, 18, Captain the Honorable James Arbuthnot, [Footnote:
James, vi, 432] was steering almost southwest; the wind, which was blowing fresh from the southeast,
being a little abaft the port beam. At 7.00 the Avon began making night signals with the lanterns,
but the Wasp, disregarding these, came steadily on; at 8.38 the Avon fired a shot from her
stern-chaser, [Footnote: James, vi, 432.] and shortly afterward another from one of her lee
or starboard guns. At 20 minutes past 9, the Wasp was on the port or weather-quarter of the
Avon, and the vessels interchanged several hails; one of the American officers then came forward
on the forecastle and ordered the brig to heave to, which the latter declined doing, and set
her port foretop-mast studding sail. The Wasp then, at 9.29, fired the 12-pound carronade into
her, to which the Avon responded with her stern-chaser and the aftermost port guns. Capt. Blakely
then put his helm up, for fear his adversary would try to escape, and ran to leeward of her,
and then ranged up alongside, having poured a broadside into her quarter. A close and furious
engagement began, at such short range that the only one of the Wasp's crew who was wounded,
was hit by a wad; four round shot struck her hull, killing two men, and she suffered a good
deal in her rigging. The men on board did not know the name of their antagonist; but they could
see through the smoke and the gloom of the night, as her black hull surged through the water,
that she was a large brig; and aloft, against the sky, the sailors could be discerned, clustering
in the tops. [Footnote: Captain Blakely's letter.] In spite of the darkness the Wasp's fire
was directed with deadly precision; the Avon's gaff was shot away at almost the first broadside,
and most of her main-rigging and spars followed suit. She was hulled again and again, often
below water-line; some of her carronades were dismounted, and finally the main-mast went by
the board. At 10.00, after 31 minutes of combat, her fire had been completely silenced and
Captain Blakely hailed to know if she had struck. No answer being received, and the brig firing
a few random shot, the action recommended; but at 10.12 the Avon was again hailed, and this
time answered that she had struck. While lowering away a boat to take possession, another sail
(H. B. M. brig-sloop Castilian, 18, Captain Braimer) was seen astern. The men were again called
to quarters, and every thing put in readiness as rapidly as possible; but at 10.36 two more
sail were seen (one of which was H. B. M. Tartarus, 20 [Footnote: "Niles' Register," vi. 216.]).
The braces being cut away, the Wasp was put before the wind until new ones could be rove. The
Castilian pursued till she came up close, when she fired her lee guns into, or rather over,
the weather-quarter of the Wasp, cutting her rigging slightly. Repeated signals of distress
having now been made by the Avon (which had lost 10 men killed and 32 wounded), the Castilian
tacked and stood for her, and on closing found out she was sinking. Hardly had her crew been
taken out when she went down.

Counting the Wasp's complement as full (though it was probably two or three short), taking
James' statement of the crew of the Avon as true, including the boat carronades of both vessels,
and considering the Avon's stern-chaser to have been a six-pounder, we get the

                      COMPARATIVE FORCE. "The gallantry of the
Avon's officers and crew cannot for a moment be questioned; but
the gunnery of the latter appears to have been not one whit better
than, to the discredit of the British navy, had frequently before
been displayed in combats of this kind. Nor, judging from the specimen
given by the Castilian, is it likely that she would have performed
any better." [Footnote: James, vi, 435.] On the other hand, "Capt.
Blakely's conduct on this occasion had all the merit shown in the
previous action, with the additional claim of engaging an enemy
under circumstances which led him to believe that her consorts were
in the immediate vicinity. The steady, officer-like way in which
the Avon was destroyed, and the coolness with which he prepared
to engage the Castilian within ten minutes after his first antagonist
had struck, are the best encomiums on this officer's character and
spirit, as well as on the school in which he had been trained."
[Footnote: Cooper, ii, 291.]

The Wasp now cruised to the southward and westward, taking and scuttling one or two prizes.
On Sept. 21st, lat. 33 deg. 12' N., long. 14 deg. 56' W., she captured the brig Atalanta, 8,
with 19 men, which proved a valuable prize, and was sent in with one of the midshipmen, Mr.
Geisinger, aboard, as prize-master, who reached Savannah in safety on Nov. 4th. Meanwhile the
Wasp kept on toward the southeast. On Oct. 9th, in lat. 18 deg. 35' N., long. 30 deg. 10' W.,
she spoke and boarded the Swedish brig Adonis, and took out of her Lieut. McKnight and Mr.
Lyman, a master's mate, both late of the Essex, on their way to England from Brazil.

This was the last that was ever heard of the gallant but ill-fated Wasp. How she perished none
ever knew; all that is certain is that she was never seen again. She was as good a ship, as
well manned, and as ably commanded as any vessel in our little navy; and it may be doubted
if there was at that time any foreign sloop of war of her size and strength that could have
stood against her in fair fight.

As I have said, the Wasp was manned almost exclusively by Americans. James says they were mostly
Irish; the reason he gives for the assertion being that Capt. Blakely spent the first 16 months
of his life in Dublin. This argument is quite on a par with another piece of logic which I
cannot resist noticing. The point he wishes to prove is that Americans are cowards. Accordingly,
on p. 475: "On her capstan the Constitution now mounted a piece resembling 7 musket barrels,
fixed together with iron bands. It was discharged by one lock, and each barrel threw 25 balls.
* * * What could have impelled the Americans to invent such extraordinary implements of war
but fear, down-right fear?" Then a little further on: "The men were provided with leather boarding-caps,
fitted with bands of iron, * * * another strong symptom of fear!" Now, such a piece of writing
as this is simply evidence of an unsound mind; it is not so much malicious as idiotic. I only
reproduce it to help prove what I have all along insisted on, that any of James' unsupported
statements about the Americans, whether respecting the tonnage of the ships or the courage
of the crews, are not worth the paper they are written on; on all points connected purely with
the British navy, or which can be checked off by official documents or ships' logs, or where
there would be no particular object in falsifying, James is an invaluable assistant, from the
diligence and painstaking care he shows, and the thoroughness and minuteness with which he
goes into details.

A fair-minded and interesting English critic, [Footnote: Lord Howard Douglass, "Treatise on
Naval Gunnery," p. 416.] whose remarks are generally very just, seems to me to have erred somewhat
in commenting on this last sloop action. He says that the Avon was first crippled by dismantling
shot from long guns. Now, the Wasp had but one long gun on the side engaged, and, moreover,
began the action with the shortest and lightest of her carronades. Then he continues that the
Avon, like the Peacock, "was hulled so low that the shot-holes could not be got at, and yielded
to this fatal circumstance only." It certainly cannot be said when a brig has been dismasted,
has had a third of her crew placed hors de combat, and has been rendered an unmanageable hulk,
that she yields only because she has received a few shot below the water-line. These shot-holes
undoubtedly hastened the result, but both the Peacock and the Avon would have surrendered even
if they had remained absolutely water-tight.

The Adams, 28, had been cut down to a sloop of war at Washington, and then lengthened into
a flush-decked, heavy corvette, mounting on each side 13 medium 18's, or columbiads, and 1
long 12, with a crew of 220 men, under the command of Capt. Charles Morris, late first lieut.
of the Constitution. [Footnote: "Autobiography of Commodore Morris," Annapolis, 1880, p. 172.]
She slipped out of the Potomac and past the blockaders on Jan. 18th, and cruised eastward to
the African coast and along it from Cape Mount to Cape Palmas, thence to the Canaries and Cape
de Verd. She returned very nearly along the Equator, thence going toward the West Indies. The
cruise was unlucky, but a few small prizes, laden with palm-oil and ivory, being made. In hazy
weather, on March 25th, a large Indiaman (the Woodbridge) was captured; but while taking possession
the weather cleared up, and Capt. Morris found himself to leeward of 25 sail, two of which,
a two-decker and a frigate, were making for him, and it took him till the next day to shake
them off. He entered Savannah on May 1st and sailed again on the 8th, standing in to the Gulf
Stream, between Makanillan and Florida, to look out for the Jamaica fleet. He found this fleet
on the 24th, but the discovery failed to do him much good, as the ships were under the convoy
of a 74, two frigates, and three brigs. The Adams hovered on their skirts for a couple of days,
but nothing could be done with them, for the merchant-men sailed in the closest possible order
and the six war vessels exercised the greatest vigilance. So the corvette passed northward
to the Newfoundland Banks, where she met with nothing but fogs and floating ice, and then turned
her prow toward Ireland. On July 4th she made out and chased two sail, who escaped into the
mouth of the Shannon. After this the Adams, heartily tired of fogs and cold, stood to the southward
and made a few prizes; then, in lat. 44 deg. N., long. 10 deg. W., on July 15th, she stumbled
across the 18-pounder 36-gun frigate Tigris, Capt. Henderson. The frigate was to leeward, and
a hard chase ensued. It was only by dint of cutting away her anchors and throwing overboard
some of her guns that the Adams held her own till sunset, when it fell calm. Capt. Morris and
his first lieutenant, Mr. Wadsworth, had been the first and second lieutenants of Old Ironsides
in Hull's famous cruise, and they proved that they had not forgotten their early experience,
for they got out the boats to tow, and employed their time so well that by sunrise the frigate
was two leagues astern. After 18 hours' more chase the Adams dropped her. But in a day or two
she ran across a couple more, one of which, an old bluff-bows, was soon thrown out; but the
other was very fast, and kept close on the corvette's heels. As before, the frigate was to
leeward. The Adams had been built by contract; one side was let to a sub-contractor of economical
instincts, and accordingly turned out rather shorter than the other; the result was, the ship
sailed a good deal faster on one tack than on the other. In this chase she finally got on her
good tack in the night, and so escaped. [Footnote: This statement is somewhat traditional;
I have also seen it made about the John Adams. But some old officers have told me positively
that it occurred to the Adams on this cruise.] Capt. Morris now turned homeward. During his
two cruises he had made but 10 prizes (manned by 161 men), none of very great value. His luck
grew worse and worse. The continual cold and damp produced scurvy, and soon half of his crew
were prostrated by the disease; and the weather kept on foggy as ever. Off the Maine coast
a brig-sloop (the Rifleman, Capt. Pearce) was discovered and chased, but it escaped in the
thick weather. The fog grew heavier, and early on the morning of Aug. 17th the Adams struck
land--literally struck it, too, for she grounded on the Isle of Haute, and had to throw over
provisions, spare spars, etc., before she could be got off. Then she entered the Penobscot,
and sailed 27 miles up it to Hampden. The Rifleman meanwhile conveyed intelligence of her whereabouts
to a British fleet, consisting of two line-of-battle ships, three frigates, three sloops, and
ten troop transports, under the joint command of Rear-Admiral Griffeth and Lieutenant-General
Sherbrooke. [Footnote: James, vi, 479.]

This expedition accordingly went into the Penobscot and anchored off Castine. Captain Morris
made every preparation he could to defend his ship, but his means were very limited; seventy
of his men were dead or disabled by the scurvy; the remainder, many of them also diseased,
were mustered out, to the number of 130 officers and seamen (without muskets) and 20 marines.
He was joined, however, by 30 regulars, and later by over 300 militia armed with squirrel guns,
ducking- and fowling-pieces, etc.,--in all between 500 and 550 men, [Footnote: "Autobiography
of Commodore Morris."] only 180 of whom, with 50 muskets among them, could be depended upon.
On Sept. 3d the British advanced by land and water, the land-force being under the direction
of Lieutenant-Colonel John, and consisting of 600 troops, 80 marines, and 80 seamen. [Footnote:
James, vi. 481. Whenever militia are concerned James has not much fear of official documents
and lets his imagination run riot; he here says the Americans had 1,400 men, which is as accurate
as he generally is in writing about this species of force. His aim being to overestimate the
number of the Americans in the various engagements, he always supplies militia ad libitum,
to make up any possible deficiency.] The flotilla was composed of barges, launches, and rocket-boats,
under the command of Captain Barry of the Dragon, 74. In all there were over 1,500 men. The
seamen of the Adams, from the wharf, opened fire on the flotilla, which returned it with rockets
and carronades; but the advance was checked. Meanwhile the British land-forces attacked the
militia, who acted up to the traditional militia standard, and retreated with the utmost promptitude
and celerity, omitting the empty formality of firing. This left Captain Morris surrounded by
eight times his number, and there was nothing to do but set fire to the corvette and retreat.
The seamen, marines, and regulars behaved well, and no attempt was made to molest them. None
of Captain Morris' men were hit; his loss was confined to one sailor and one marine who were
too much weakened by scurvy to retreat with the others, who marched to Portland, 200 miles
off. The British lost ten men killed or wounded.

On Sept. 9th Gunboats No. 160 and 151, commanded by Mr. Thomas M. Pendleton, captured off Sapoleo
Bar, Ga., the British privateer Fortune of War, armed with two heavy pivot guns, and 35 men.
She made a brief resistance, losing two of her men. [Footnote: Letter from Commodore H. E.
Campbell, St. Mary's, Sept. 12, 1814.]

On Sept. 15th the British 20-gun ship-sloops Hermes and Carron, and 18-gun brig-sloops Sophie
and Childers, and a force of 200 men on shore, [Footnote: James, vi, 527.] attacked Fort Bowyer,
on Mobile Point, but were repulsed without being able to do any damage whatever to the Americans.
The Hermes was sunk and the assailants lost about 80 men.

On the 26th of September, while the privateer-schooner General Armstrong, of New York, Captain
Samuel C. Reid, of one long 24, eight long 9's, and 90 men, was lying at anchor in the road
of Fayal, a British squadron, composed of the Plantagenet, 74, Captain Robert Floyd, Rota,
38, Captain Philip Somerville, and Carnation, 18, Captain George Bentham, hove in sight. [Footnote:
Letter of Captain S. C. Reid, Oct. 7, 1814; and of John B. Dabney, Consul at Fayal, Oct. 5,
1814.] One or more boats were sent in by the British, to reconnoitre the schooner, as they
asserted, or, according to the American accounts, to carry her by a coup de main. At any rate,
after repeatedly warning them off, the privateer fired into them, and they withdrew. Captain
Reid then anchored, with springs on his cables, nearer shore, to await the expected attack,
which was not long deferred. At 8 P.M. four boats from the Plantagenet and three from the Rota,
containing in all 180 men, [Footnote: James, vi, 509: Both American accounts say 12 boats,
with 400 men, and give the British loss as 250. According to my usual rule, I take each side's
statement of its own force and loss.] under the command of Lieutenant William Matterface, first
of the Rota, pulled in toward the road, while the Carnation accompanied them to attack the
schooner if she got under way. The boats pulled in under cover of a small reef of rocks, where
they lay for some time, and about midnight made the attack. The Americans opened with the pivot
gun, and immediately afterward with their long 9's, while the boats replied with their carronades,
and, pulling spiritedly on amidst a terrific fire of musketry from both sides, laid the schooner
aboard on her bow and starboard quarter. The struggle was savage enough, the British hacking
at the nettings and trying to clamber up on deck, while the Americans fired their muskets and
pistols in the faces of their assailants and thrust the foremost through with their long pikes.
The boats on the quarter were driven off; but on the forecastle all three of the American lieutenants
were killed or disabled, and the men were giving back when Captain Reid led all the after-division
up and drove the British back into their boats. This put an end to the assault. Two boats were
sunk, most of the wounded being saved as the shore was so near; two others were captured, and
but three of the scattered flotilla returned to the ships. Of the Americans, 2 were killed,
including the second lieutenant, Alexander O. Williams, and 7 were wounded, including the first
and third lieutenants, Frederick A. Worth and Robert Johnson. Of the British, 34 were killed
and 86 were wounded; among the former being the Rota's first and third lieutenants, William
Matterface and Charles R. Norman, and among the latter her second lieutenant and first lieutenant
of marines, Richard Rawle and Thomas Park. The schooner's long 24 had been knocked off its
carriage by a carronade shot, but it was replaced and the deck cleared for another action.
Next day the Carnation came in to destroy the privateer, but was driven off by the judicious
use the latter made of her "Long Tom." But affairs being now hopeless, the General Armstrong
was scuttled and burned, and the Americans retreated to the land. The British squadron was
bound for New Orleans, and on account of the delay and loss that it suffered, it was late in
arriving, so that this action may be said to have helped in saving the Crescent City. Few regular
commanders could have done as well as Captain Reid.

On October 6th, while Gun-boat No. 160 was convoying some coasters from Savannah, it was carried
by a British tender and nine boats. [Footnote: Letter from Commander H. C. Campbell, Oct. 12,
1814.] The gun-vessel was lying at anchor about eight leagues from St. Mary's, and the boats
approached with muffled oars early in the morning. They were not discovered till nearly aboard,
but the defence though short was spirited, the British losing about 20 men. Of the gun-boat's
30 men but 16 were fit for action: those, under Sailing-master Thomas Paine, behaved well.
Mr. Paine, especially, fought with the greatest gallantry; his thigh was broken by a grape-shot
at the very beginning, but he hobbled up on his other leg to resist the boarders, fighting
till he was thrust through by a pike and had received two sabre cuts. Any one of his wounds
would have been enough to put an ordinary man hors de combat.

On October 11th, another desperate privateer battle took place. The brigantine Prince-de-Neufchatel,
Captain Ordronaux, of New York, was a superbly built vessel of 310 tons, mounting 17 guns,
and originally possessing a crew of 150 men. [Footnote: "History of American Privateers," by
George Coggeshall, p. 241, New York, 1876.] She had made a very successful cruise, having on
board goods to the amount of $300,000, but had manned and sent in so many prizes that only
40 of her crew were left on board, while 37 prisoners were confined in the hold. One of her
prizes was in company, but had drifted off to such a distance that she was unable to take part
in the fight. At mid-day, on the 11th of October, while off Nantucket, the British frigate
Endymion, 40, Captain Henry Hope, discovered the privateer and made sail in chase. [Footnote:
James, vi, p. 527.] At 8.30 P.M., a calm having come on, the frigate despatched 5 boats, containing
111 men, [Footnote: According to Captain Ordronaux; James does not give the number, but says
28 were killed, 37 wounded, and the crew of the launch captured. Ten of the latter were unwounded,
and 18 wounded. I do not know if he included these last among his "37 wounded."] under the
command of the first lieutenant, Abel Hawkins, to take the brigantine; while the latter triced
up the boarding nettings, loaded the guns with grape and bullets, and prepared herself in every
way for the coming encounter. She opened fire on the boats as they drew near, but they were
soon alongside, and a most desperate engagement ensued. Some of the British actually cut through
the nettings and reached the deck, but were killed by the privateersmen; and in a few minutes
one boat was sunk, three others drifted off, and the launch, which was under the brigantine's
stern, was taken possession of. The slaughter had been frightful, considering the number of
the combatants. The victorious privateersmen had lost 7 killed, 15 badly and 9 slightly wounded,
leaving but 9 untouched! Of the Endymion's men, James says 28, including the first lieutenant
and a midshipman, were killed, and 37, including the second lieutenant and a master's mate,
wounded; "besides which the launch was captured and the crew made prisoners." I do not know
if this means 37 wounded, besides the wounded in the launch, or not [Footnote: I think James
does not include the wounded in the launch, as he says 28 wounded were sent aboard the Saturn;
this could hardly have included the men who had been captured.]; of the prisoners captured
18 were wounded and 10 unhurt, so the loss was either 28 killed, 55 wounded, and 10 unhurt
prisoners; or else 28 killed, 37 wounded, and 10 prisoners; but whether the total was 93 or
75 does not much matter. It was a most desperate conflict, and, remembering how short-handed
the brigantine was, it reflected the highest honor on the American captain and his crew.

After their repulse before Baltimore the British concentrated their forces for an attack upon
New Orleans. Accordingly a great fleet of line-of-battle ships, frigates, and smaller vessels,
under Vice-Admiral Cochrane, convoying a still larger number of store-ships and transports,
containing the army of General Packenham, appeared off the Chandeleur Islands on Dec. 8th.
The American navy in these parts consisted of the ship Louisiana and schooner Carolina in the
Mississippi river, and in the shallow bayous a few gun-boats, of course without quarters, low
in the water, and perfectly easy of entrance. There were also a few tenders and small boats.
The British frigates and sloops anchored off the broad, shallow inlet called Lake Borgne on
the 12th; on this inlet there were 5 gun-boats and 2 small tenders, under the command of Lieut.
Thomas Catesby Jones. It was impossible for the British to transport their troops across Lake
Borgne, as contemplated, until this flotilla was destroyed. Accordingly, on the night of the
12th, 42 launches, armed with 24-, 18-, and 12-pounder carronades, and 3 unarmed gigs, carrying
980 seamen and marines, under the orders of Capt. Lockyer, [Footnote: James, vi, 521.] pushed
off from the Armide, 38, in three divisions; the first under the command of Capt. Lockyer,
the second under Capt. Montresor, and the third under Capt. Roberts. [Footnote: Letter of Capt.
Lockyer to Vice-Admiral Cochrane, Dec. 18, 1814.] Lieut. Jones was at anchor with his boats
at the Malheureux Islands, when he discovered, on the 13th, the British flotilla advancing
toward Port Christian. He at once despatched the Seahorse of one 6-pounder and 14 men, under
Sailing-master William Johnston, to destroy the stores at Bay St. Louis. She moored herself
under the bank, where she was assisted by two 6-pounders. There the British attacked her with
seven of their smaller boats, which were repulsed after sustaining for nearly half an hour
a very destructive fire. [Footnote: James, vi, 521.] However, Mr. Johnston had to burn his
boat to prevent it from being taken by a larger force. Meanwhile Lieut. Jones got under way
with the five gun-vessels, trying to reach Les Petites Coquilles, near a small fort at the
mouth of a creek. But as the wind was light and baffling, and the current very strong, the
effort was given up, and the vessels came to anchor off Malheureux Island passage at 1 A.M.
on the 14th. [Footnote: Official letter of Lieut. Jones, March 12, 1815.] The other tender,
the Alligator, Sailing-master Sheppard, of one 4-pounder and 8 men, was discovered next morning
trying to get to her consorts, and taken with a rush by Capt. Roberts and his division. At
daybreak Lieut. Jones saw the British boats about nine miles to the eastward, and moored his
5-gun vessel abreast in the channel, with their boarding nettings triced up, and every thing
in readiness; but the force of the current drifted two of them, Nos. 156 and 163, a hundred
yards down the pass and out of line, No. 156 being the headmost of all. Their exact force was
as follows: No. 156, Lieut. Jones, 41 men and 5 guns (1 long 24 and 4 12-pound carronades);
No. 163, Sailing-master Geo. There were thus, in all, 182 men and a broadside of 14 guns, throwing
212 pounds of shot. The British forces amounted, as I have said, to 980 men, and (supposing
they had equal numbers of 24's, 18's and 12's,) the flotilla threw seven hundred and fifty-eight
pounds of shot. The odds of course were not as much against the Americans as these figures
would make them, for they were stationary, had some long, heavy guns and boarding nettings;
on the other hand the fact that two of their vessels had drifted out of line was a very serious
misfortune. At any rate, the odds were great enough, considering that he had British sailors
to deal with, to make it any thing but a cheerful look-out for Lieut. Jones; but nowise daunted
by the almost certain prospect of defeat the American officers and seamen prepared very coolly
for the fight. In this connection it should be remembered that simply to run the boats on shore
would have permitted the men to escape, if they had chosen to do so.

Captain Lockyer acted as coolly as his antagonist. When he had reached a point just out of
gun-shot, he brought the boats to a grapnel, to let the sailors eat breakfast and get a little
rest after the fatigue of their long row. When his men were rested and in good trim he formed
the boats in open order, and they pulled gallantly on against the strong current. At 10.50
the Americans opened fire from their long guns, and in about 15 minutes the cannonade became
general on both sides. At 11.50 [Footnote: Lieut. Jones' letter.] Captain Lockyer's barge was
laid alongside No. 156, and a very obstinate struggle ensued, "in which the greater part of
the officers and crew of the barge were killed or wounded," [Footnote: Captain Lockyer's letter.]
including among the latter the gallant captain himself, severely, and his equally gallant first
lieutenant, Mr. Pratt, of the Seahorse frigate, mortally. At the same time Lieut. Tatnall (of
the Tonnant) also laid his barge aboard the gun-boat, only to have it sunk; another shared
the same fate; and the assailants were for the moment repulsed. But at this time Lieut. Jones,
who had shown as much personal bravery during the assault, as forethought in preparing for
it, received a dangerous and disabling wound, while many of his men received the same fate;
the boarding nettings, too, had all been cut or shot away. Several more barges at once assailed
the boats, the command of which had devolved on a young midshipman, Mr. George Parker; the
latter, fighting as bravely as his commander, was like him severely wounded, whereupon the
boat was carried at 12.10. Its guns were turned on No. 163, and this, the smallest of the gun-boats,
was soon taken; then the British dashed at No. 162 and carried it, after a very gallant defence,
in which Lieut. Speddes was badly wounded. No. 5 had her long 24 dismounted by the recoil,
and was next carried; finally, No. 23, being left entirely alone, hauled down her flag at 12.30.
[Footnote: Minutes of the Court of Inquiry, held May 15, 1851.*] The Americans had lost 6 killed
and 35 wounded; the British 17 killed and 77 (many mortally) wounded. The greater part of the
loss on both sides occurred in boarding No. 156, and also the next two gun-boats.

* Poster's note: the date 1851 above may well have been 1815 in the original; if you have a
copy of this book, we would appreciate confirmation.

I have in this case, as usual, taken each commander's account of his own force and loss. Lieut.
Jones states the British force to have been 1,000, which tallies almost exactly with their
own account; but believes that they lost 300 in killed and wounded. Captain Lockyer, on the
other hand, gives the Americans 225 men and three additional light guns. But on the main points
the two accounts agree perfectly. The victors certainly deserve great credit for the perseverance,
gallantry and dash they displayed; but still more belongs to the vanquished for the cool skill
and obstinate courage with which they fought, although with the certainty of ultimate defeat
before them,--which is always the severest test of bravery. No comment is needed to prove the
effectiveness of their resistance. Even James says that the Americans made an obstinate struggle,
that Lieut. Jones displayed great personal bravery, and that the British loss was very severe.

On the night of Dec. 23d Gen. Jackson beat up the quarters of the British encamped on the bank
of the Mississippi. The attack was opened by Capt. Patterson in the schooner Carolina, 14;
she was manned by 70 men, and mounted on each side six 12-pound carronades and one long 12.
Dropping down the stream unobserved, till opposite the bivouac of the troops and so close to
the shore that his first command to fire was plainly heard by the foe, Patterson opened a slaughtering
cannonade on the flank of the British, and kept it up without suffering any loss in return,
as long as the attack lasted. But on the 27th the British had their revenge, attacking the
little schooner as she lay at anchor, unable to ascend the current on account of the rapid
current and a strong head-wind. The assailants had a battery of 5 guns, throwing hot shot and
shell, while the only gun of the schooner's that would reach was the long 12. After half an
hour's fighting the schooner was set on fire and blown up; the crew escaped to the shore with
the loss of 7 men killed and wounded. The only remaining vessel, exclusive of some small, unarmed
row-boats, was the Louisiana, 16, carrying on each side eight long 24's. She was of great assistance
in the battle of the 28th, throwing during the course of the cannonade over 800 shot, and suffering
very little in return. [Footnote: Cooper, ii, p. 320.] Afterward the American seamen and marines
played a most gallant part in all the engagements on shore; they made very efficient artillerists.

                                      SUMMARY.
The following vessels were got ready for sea during this year:
[Footnote: Am. State Papers, xiv, p. 828; also Emmons' statistical
"History."]

Name.            Rig.      Where Built.   Cost.     Men. Guns. Tons. Remarks

Wasp,            Ship      Newburyport  $77,459.60  160   22   509   Built
Frolic,          "         Boston        72,094.82   "    "     "     "
Peacock,         "         New York      75,644.36   "    "     "     "
Ontario,         "         Baltimore     59,343.69   "    "     "     "
Erie,            "         "             56,174.36   "    "     "     "
Tom Bowline,     Schooner  Portsmouth    13,000.00   90   12   260   Purchased
Lynx,            "         Washington                50    6         Built
Epervier,        Brig      England       50,000.00  130   18   477   Captured
Flambeau,        "         Baltimore     14,000.00   90   14   300   Purchased
-+- Spark,       "         "             17,389.00   "    "     "     "
 | Firefly,      "         "             17,435.00   "    "    333    "
 | Torch,        Schooner  "             13,000.00   60   12   260    "
 | Spitfire,     "         "             20,000.00   "    "    286    "
 '- Eagle,       "         N.O.                      "    "    270    "
-+- Prometheus,  "         Philadelphia  20,000.00   "    "    290    "
 | Chippeway,    Brig      R.I.          52,000.00   90   14   390    "
 | Saranac,      "         Middleton     26,000.00   "    "    360    "
 '- Boxer,       "         "             26,000.00   "    "    370    "
Despatch,        Schooner                            23   2     52

The first 5 small vessels that are bracketed were to cruise under Commodore Porter; the next
4 under Commodore Perry; but the news of peace arrived before either squadron put to sea. Some
of the vessels under this catalogue were really almost ready for sea at the end of 1813; and
some that I have included in the catalogue of 1815 were almost completely fitted at the end
of 1814,--but this arrangement is practically the best.

LIST OF VESSELS LOST TO THE BRITISH.

1. Destroyed by British Armies.

Name.         Tons.  Guns.
Columbia,  1,508    52-+- Destroyed to prevent them
Adams,       760    28 |  falling into hands of enemy.
Argus.       509    22 '-
Carolina.    230    14    Destroyed by battery.
             -----  ----
             3,007   116

2. Captured, Etc., By British Navy on Ocean.

Name.         Tons.  Guns.
Essex.       860    46   Captured by frigate and corvette.
Frolic.      509    22   "        by frigate and schooner.
Rattlesnake, 258    16   "        by frigate.
Syren,       250    16   "        by seventy-four.
               ---  ----
             1,877   100

Total,       4,884 tons. 216 guns

There were also a good many gun-boats, which I do not count, because, as already said, they
were often not as large as the barges that were sunk and taken in attacking them, as at Craney
Island, etc.

LIST OF VESSELS TAKEN FROM THE BRITISH.

1. Captured by American Privateers.

Name.       Tons.  Guns. Ballabou,   86     4 Landrail,   76     4

2. Captured, Etc., By British Navy on Ocean.

Name.       Tons.  Guns. Epervier,  477    18   captured by sloop Peacock. Avon,      477 
20   sunk     "  " Wasp. Reindeer,  477    19   "        "  " ". Pictou,    300    14   captured
by frigate.

3. Sunk in Attacking Fort.

  Name.     Tons.  Guns.
Hermes,    500    22
           -----  -----
           2,393   101

Taking into account the losses on the lakes, there was not very much difference in the amount
of damage done to each combatant by the other; but both as regards the material results and
the moral effects, the balance inclined largely to the Americans. The chief damage done to
our navy was by the British land-forces, and consisted mainly in forcing us to burn an unfinished
frigate and sloop. On the ocean our three sloops were captured in each case by an overwhelming
force, against which no resistance could be made, and the same was true of the captured British
schooner. The Essex certainly gained as much honor as her opponents. There were but three single
ship actions, in all of which the Americans were so superior in force as to give them a very
great advantage; nevertheless, in two of them the victory was won with such perfect impunity
and the difference in the loss and damage inflicted was so very great, that I doubt if the
result would have been affected if the odds had been reversed. In the other case, that of the
Reindeer, the defeated party fought at a still greater disadvantage, and yet came out of the
conflict with full as much honor as the victor. No man with a particle of generosity in his
nature can help feeling the most honest admiration for the unflinching courage and cool skill
displayed by Capt. Manners and his crew. It is worthy of notice (remembering the sneers of
so many of the British authors at the "wary circumspection" of the Americans) that Capt. Manners,
who has left a more honorable name than any other British commander of the war, excepting Capt.
Broke, behaved with the greatest caution as long as it would serve his purpose, while he showed
the most splendid personal courage afterward. It is this combination of courage and skill that
made him so dangerous an antagonist; it showed that the traditional British bravery was not
impaired by refusing to adhere to the traditional British tactics of rushing into a fight "bull-headed."
Needless exposure to danger denotes not so much pluck as stupidity. Capt. Manners had no intention
of giving his adversary any advantage he could prevent. No one can help feeling regret that
he was killed; but if he was to fall, what more glorious death could he meet? It must be remembered
that while paying all homage to Capt. Manners, Capt. Blakely did equally well. It was a case
where the victory between two combatants, equal in courage and skill, was decided by superior
weight of metal and number of men.

             PRIZES MADE.

Name of ship.   Number of prizes.

Ontario.

The winter was spent by both parties in preparing more formidable fleets for the ensuing summer.
All the American schooners had proved themselves so unfit for service that they were converted
into transports, except the Sylph, which was brig-rigged and armed like the Oneida. Sackett's
Harbor possessed but slight fortifications, and the Americans were kept constantly on the alert,
through fear lest the British should cross over. Commodore Chauncy and Mr. Eckford were as
unremitting in their exertions as ever. In February two 22-gun brigs, the Jefferson and Jones,
and one large frigate of 50 guns, the Superior, were laid; afterward a deserter brought in
news of the enormous size of one of the new British frigates, and the Superior was enlarged
to permit her carrying 62 guns. The Jefferson was launched on April 7th, the Jones on the 10th;
and the Superior on May 2d,--an attempt on the part of the British to blow her up having been
foiled a few days before. Another frigate, the Mohawk, 42, was at once begun. Neither guns
nor men for the first three ships had as yet arrived, but they soon began to come in, as the
roads got better and the streams opened. Chauncy and Eckford, besides building ships that were
literally laid down in the forest, and seeing that they were armed with heavy guns, which,
as well as all their stores, had to be carried overland hundreds of miles through the wilderness,
were obliged to settle quarrels that occurred among the men, the most serious being one that
arose from a sentinel's accidentally killing a shipwright, whose companions instantly struck
work in a body. What was more serious, they had to contend with such constant and virulent
sickness that it almost assumed the proportions of a plague. During the winter it was seldom
that two thirds of the force were fit for duty, and nearly a sixth of the whole number of men
in the port died before navigation opened. [Footnote: Cooper mentions that in five months the
Madison buried a fifth of her crew.]

Meanwhile Yeo had been nearly as active at Kingston, laying down two frigates and a huge line-of-battle
ship, but his shipwrights did not succeed in getting the latter ready much before navigation
closed. The Prince Regent, 58, and Princess Charlotte, 42, were launched on April 15th. I shall
anticipate somewhat by giving tabular lists of the comparative forces, after the two British
frigates, the two American frigates, and the two American brigs had all been equipped and manned.
Commodore Yeo's original six cruisers had been all renamed, some of them re-armed, and both
the schooners changed into brigs. The Wolfe, Royal George, Melville, Moira, Beresford, and
Sydney Smith, were now named respectively Montreal, Niagara, Star, Charwell, Netly, and Magnet.
On the American side there had been but slight changes, beyond the alteration of the Sylph
into a brig armed like the Oneida. Of the Superior's 62 guns, 4 were very shortly sent on shore
again.

CHAUNCY'S SQUADRON.

                                  Broadside
    Name.   Rig.  Tonnage. Crew.    Metal.      Armament.
Superior, ship, 1,580    500    1,050lbs. +- 30  long 32's
                                            |   2   "   24's
                                            -  26 short 42's
Mohawk,    "    1,350    350    554 lbs. -+- 26  long 24's
                                            |   2   "   18's
                                            '- 14 short 32's
Pike,      "      875    300    360  "   -+- 26  long 24's
                                            '-  2   "      228 guns.

This is considerably less than James makes it, as he includes all the schooners, which were
abandoned as cruisers, and only used as transports or gun-boats. Similarly Sir James had a
large number of gun-boats, which are not included in his cruising force. James thus makes Chauncy's
force 2,321 men, and a broadside of 4,188 lbs.

YEO'S SQUADRON

                                      Broadside
Name.           Rig. Tonnage. Crew.     Metal.   Armament.
Prince         ship, 1,450    485     872 lbs. -+- 32  long 24's
   Regent,                                      |   4 short 68's
                                                 '- 22   "   32's
Princess       "     1,215    315     604  "   -+- 26  long 24's
   Charlotte,                                   |   2 short 68's
                                                 '- 14   "   32's
Montreal,     "       637    220     258  "   -+-  7  long 24's
                                                 '- 18   "    209 guns.

This tallies pretty well with James' statement, which (on p. 488) is 1,517 men, and a broadside
of 2,752 lbs. But there are very probably errors as regards the armaments of the small brigs,
which were continually changed. At any rate the American fleet was certainly the stronger,
about in the proportion of six to five. The disproportion was enough to justify Sir James in
his determination not to hazard a battle, although the odds were certainly not such as British
commanders had been previously accustomed to pay much regard to. Chauncy would have acted exactly
as his opponent did, had he been similarly placed. The odds against the British commodore were
too great to be overcome, where the combatants were otherwise on a par, although the refusal
to do battle against them would certainly preclude Yeo from advancing any claims to superiority
in skill or courage. The Princess Charlotte and Niagara were just about equal to the Mohawk
and Madison, and so were the Charwell and Netly to the Oneida and Sylph; but both the Star
and Magnet together could hardly have matched either the Jones or the Jefferson, while the
main-deck 32's of the Superior gave her a great advantage over the Prince Regent's 24's, where
the crews were so equal; and the Pike was certainly too heavy for the Montreal. A decided superiority
in the effectiveness of both crews and captains could alone have warranted Sir James Lucas
Yeo in engaging, and this superiority he certainly did not possess.

This year the British architects outstripped ours in the race for supremacy, and Commodore
Yeo put out of port with his eight vessels long before the Americans were ready. His first
attempt was a successful attack on Oswego. This town is situated some 60 miles distant from
Sackett's Harbor, and is the first port on the lake which the stores, sent from the seaboard
to Chauncy, reached. Accordingly it was a place of some little importance, but was very much
neglected by the American authorities. It was insufficiently garrisoned, and was defended only
by an entirely ruined fort of 6 guns, two of them dismounted. Commodore Yeo sailed from Kingston
to attack it on the 3d of May, having on board his ships a detachment of 1,080 troops. Oswego
was garrisoned by less than 300 men, [Footnote: General order of Gen. Jacob Brown, by R. Jones,
Ass. Adj.-General, May 12, 1814.] chiefly belonging to a light artillery regiment, with a score
or two of militia; they were under the command of Colonel Mitchell. The recaptured schooner
Growler was in port, with 7 guns destined for the Harbor; she was sunk by her commander, but
afterward raised and carried off by the foe.

On the 5th Yeo appeared off Oswego and sent in Captain Collier and 13 gun-boats to draw the
fort's fire; after some firing between them and the four guns mounted in the fort (two long
24's, one long 12, and one long 6), the gun-boats retired. The next day the attack was seriously
made. The Princess Charlotte, Montreal, and Niagara engaged the batteries, while the Charwell
and Star scoured the woods with grape to clear them of the militia. [Footnote: Letter of General
Gordon Drummond, May 7, 1814.] The debarkation of the troops was superintended by Captain O'Connor,
and until it was accomplished the Montreal sustained almost the whole fire of the fort, being
set on fire three times, and much cut up in hull, masts, and rigging. [Footnote: Letter of
Sir James Lucas Yeo, May 17, 1814.] Under this fire 800 British troops were landed, under Lieutenant-Colonel
Fischer, assisted by 200 seamen, armed with long pikes, under Captain Mulcaster. They moved
gallantly up the hill, under a heavy fire, and carried the fort by assault; Mitchell then fell
back unmolested to the Falls, about 12 miles above the town, where there was a large quantity
of stores. But he was not again attacked. The Americans lost 6 men killed, including Lieutenant
Blaeny, 38 wounded, and 25 missing, both of these last falling into the enemy's hands. The
British lost 22 soldiers, marines, and seamen (including Captain Hollaway) killed, and 73 (including
the gallant Captain Mulcaster dangerously, and Captain Popham slightly) wounded, [Footnote:
Letter of Lieut.-Col. V. Fischer, May 17, 1814. James says "18 killed and 64 wounded," why
I do not know; the official report of Col. Fischer, as quoted, says: "Of the army, 19 killed
and 62 wounded; of the navy, 3 killed and 11 wounded."] the total loss being 95--nearly a third
of the American force engaged. General Drummond, in his official letter, reports that "the
fort being everywhere almost open, the whole of the garrison * * * effected their escape, except
about 60 men, half of them wounded." No doubt the fort's being "everywhere almost open" afforded
excellent opportunities for retreat; but it was not much of a recommendation of it as a structure
intended for defence.

The British destroyed the four guns in the battery, and raised the Growler and carried her
off, with her valuable cargo of seven long guns. They also carried off a small quantity of
ordnance stores and some flour, and burned the barracks; otherwise but little damage was done,
and the Americans reoccupied the place at once. It certainly showed great lack of energy on
Commodore Yeo's part that he did not strike a really important blow by sending an expedition
up to destroy the quantity of stores and ordnance collected at the Falls. But the attack itself
was admirably managed. The ships were well placed, and kept up so heavy a fire on the fort
as to effectually cover the debarkation of the troops, which was very cleverly accomplished;
and the soldiers and seamen behaved with great gallantry and steadiness, their officers leading
them, sword in hand, up a long, steep hill, under a destructive fire. It was similar to Chauncy's
attacks on York and Fort George, except that in this case the assailants suffered a much severer
loss compared to that inflicted on the assailed. Colonel Mitchell managed the defence with
skill, doing all he could with his insufficient materials.

After returning to Kingston, Yeo sailed with his squadron for Sackett's Harbor, where he appeared
on May 19th and began a strict blockade. This was especially troublesome because most of the
guns and cables for the two frigates had not yet arrived, and though the lighter pieces and
stores could be carried over land, the heavier ones could only go by water, which route was
now made dangerous by the presence of the blockading squadron. The very important duty of convoying
these great guns was entrusted to Captain Woolsey, an officer of tried merit. He decided to
take them by water to Stony Creek, whence they might be carried by land to the Harbor, which
was but three miles distant; and on the success of his enterprise depended Chauncy's chances
of regaining command of the lake. On the 28th of May, at sunset, Woolsey left Oswego with 19
boats, carrying 21 long 32's, 10 long 24's, three 42-pound carronades, and 10 cables--one of
the latter, for the Superior, being a huge rope 22 inches in circumference and weighing 9,600
pounds. The boats rowed all through the night, and at sunrise on the 29th 18 of them found
themselves off the Big Salmon River, and, as it was unsafe to travel by daylight, Woolsey ran
up into Big Sandy Creek, 8 miles from the Harbor. The other boat, containing two long 24's
and a cable, got out of line, ran into the British squadron, and was captured. The news she
brought induced Sir James Yeo at once to send out an expedition to capture the others. He accordingly
despatched Captains Popham and Spilsbury in two gun-boats, one armed with one 68-pound and
one 24-pound carronade, and the other with a long 32, accompanied by three cutters and a gig,
mounting between them two long 12's and two brass 6's, with a total of 180 men. [Footnote:
James, vi. 487; while Cooper says 186, James says the British loss was 18 killed and 50 wounded;
Major Appling says "14 were killed, 28 wounded, and 27 marines and 106 sailors captured."]
They rowed up to Sandy Creek and lay off its mouth all the night, and began ascending it shortly
after daylight on the 30th. Their force, however, was absurdly inadequate for the accomplishment
of their object. Captain Woolsey had been reinforced by some Oneida Indians, a company of light
artillery, and some militia, so that his only care was, not to repulse, but to capture the
British party entire, and even this did not need any exertion. He accordingly despatched Major
Appling down the river with 120 riflemen [Footnote: Letter from Major D. Appling, May 30, 1814.]
and some Indians to lie in ambush. [Footnote: Letter of Capt. M. T. Woolsey, June 1, 1814.
There were about 60 Indians: In all, the American force amounted to 180 men. James adds 30
riflemen, 140 Indians, and "a large body of militia and cavalry,"--none of whom were present.]
When going up the creek the British marines, under Lieutenant Cox, were landed on the left
bank, and the small-arm men, under Lieutenant Brown, on the right bank; while the two captains
rowed up the stream between them, throwing grape into the bushes to disperse the Indians. Major
Appling waited until the British were close up, when his riflemen opened with so destructive
a volley as to completely demoralize and "stampede" them, and their whole force was captured
with hardly any resistance, the American having only one man slightly wounded. The British
loss was severe,--18 killed and 50 dangerously wounded, according to Captain Popham's report,
as quoted by James; or "14 killed and 28 wounded," according to Major Appling's letter. It
was a very clever and successful ambush.

On June 6th Yeo raised the blockade of the Harbor, but Chauncy's squadron was not in condition
to put out till six weeks later, during which time nothing was done by either fleet, except
that two very gallant cutting-out expeditions were successfully attempted by Lieutenant Francis
H. Gregory, U.S.N. On June 16th he left the Harbor, accompanied by Sailing-masters Vaughan
and Dixon and 22 seamen, in three gigs, to intercept some of the enemy's provision schooners;
on the 19th he was discovered by the British gun-boat Black Snake, of one 18-pound carronade
and 18 men, commanded by Captain H. Landon. Lieutenant Gregory dashed at the gun-boat and carried
it without the loss of a man; he was afterward obliged to burn it, but he brought the prisoners,
chiefly royal marines, safely into port. On the 1st of July he again started out, with Messrs.
Vaughan and Dixon, and two gigs. The plucky little party suffered greatly from hunger, but
on the 5th he made a sudden descent on Presque Isle, and burned a 14-gun schooner just ready
for launching; he was off before the foe could assemble, and reached the Harbor in safety next day.

On July 31st Commodore Chauncy sailed with his fleet; some days previously the larger British
vessels had retired to Kingston, where a 100-gun two-decker was building. Chauncy sailed up
to the head of the lake, where he intercepted the small brig Magnet. The Sylph was sent in
to destroy her, but her crew ran her ashore and burned her. The Jefferson, Sylph, and Oneida
were left to watch some other small craft in the Niagara; the Jones was kept cruising between
the Harbor and Oswego, and with the four larger vessels Chauncy blockaded Yeo's four large
vessels lying in Kingston. The four American vessels were in the aggregate of 4,398 tons, manned
by rather more than 1,350 men, and presenting in broadside 77 guns, throwing 2,328 lbs. of
shot. The four British vessels measured in all about 3,812 tons, manned by 1,220 men, and presenting
in broadside 74 guns, throwing 2,066 lbs. of shot. The former were thus superior by about 15
per cent., and Sir James Yeo very properly declined to fight with the odds against him--although
it was a nicer calculation than British commanders had been accustomed to enter into.

Major-General Brown had written to Commodore Chauncy on July 13th: "I do not doubt my ability
to meet the enemy in the field and to march in any direction over his country, your fleet carrying
for me the necessary supplies. We can threaten Forts George and Niagara, and carry Burlington
Heights and York, and proceed direct to Kingston and carry that place. For God's sake let me
see you: Sir James will not fight." To which Chauncy replied: "I shall afford every assistance
in my power to cooperate with the army whenever it can be done without losing sight of the
great object for the attainment of which this fleet has been created,--the capture or destruction
of the enemy's fleet. But that I consider the primary object. That is, by any "sinister attempt"
to make him cooperate intelligently in a really well-concerted scheme of invasion. In further
support of these noble and independent sentiments, he writes to the Secretary of the Navy on
August 10th [Footnote: See Niles, vii, 12, and other places (under "Chauncy" in index).], "I
told (General Brown) that I should not visit the head of the lake unless the enemy's fleet
did so. * * * To deprive the enemy of an apology for not meeting me, I have sent ashore four
guns from the Superior to reduce her armament in number to an equality with the Prince Regent's,
yielding the advantage of their 68-pounders. The Mohawk mounts two guns less than the Princess
Charlotte, and the Montreal and Niagara are equal to the Pike and Madison." He here justifies
his refusal to co-operate with General Brown by saying that he was of only equal force with
Sir James, and that he has deprived the latter of "an apology" for not meeting him. This last
was not at all true. The Mohawk and Madison were just about equal to the Princess Charlotte
and Niagara: but the Pike was half as strong again as the Montreal; and Chauncy could very
well afford to "yield the advantage of their 68-pounders," when in return Sir James had to
yield the advantage of Chauncy's long 32's and 42-pound carronades. The Superior was a 32-pounder
frigate, and, even without her four extra guns, was about a fourth heavier than the Prince
Regent with her 24-pounders. Sir James was not acting more warily than Chauncy had acted during
June and July, 1813. Then he had a fleet which tonned 1,701, was manned by 680 men, and threw
at a broadside 1,099 lbs. of shot; and he declined to go out of port or in any way try to check
the operation of Yeo's fleet which tonned 2,091, was manned by 770 men, and threw at a broadside
1,374 lbs. of shot. Chauncy then acted perfectly proper, no doubt, but he could not afford
to sneer at Yeo for behaving in the same way. Whatever either commander might write, in reality
he well knew that his officers and crews were, man for man, just about on a par with those
of his antagonists, and so, after the first brush or two, he was exceedingly careful to see
that the odds were not against him. Chauncy, in his petulant answers to Brown's letter, ignored
the fact that his superiority of force would prevent his opponent from giving battle, and would,
therefore, prevent any thing more important than a blockade occurring.

His ideas of the purpose for which his command had been created were erroneous and very hurtful
to the American cause. That purpose was not, except incidentally, "the destruction of the enemy's
fleet"; and, if it was, he entirely failed to accomplish it. The real purpose was to enable
Canada to be successfully invaded, or to assist in repelling an invasion of the United States.
These services could only be efficiently performed by acting in union with the land-forces,
for his independent action could evidently have little effect. The only important services
he had performed had been in attacking Forts George and York, where he had been rendered "subordinate
to, and an appendage of, the army." His only chance of accomplishing any thing lay in similar
acts of cooperation, and he refused to do these. Had he acted as he ought to have done, and
assisted Brown to the utmost, he would certainly have accomplished much more than he did, and
might have enabled Brown to assault Kingston, when Yeo's fleet would of course have been captured.
The insubordination, petty stickling for his own dignity, and lack of appreciation of the necessity
of acting in concert that he showed, were the very faults which proved most fatal to the success
of our various land commanders in the early part of the war. Even had Chauncy's assistance
availed nothing, he could not have accomplished less than he did. He remained off Kingston
blockading Yeo, being once or twice blown off by gales. He sent Lieutenant Gregory, accompanied
by Midshipman Hart and six men, in to reconnoitre on August 25th; the lieutenant ran across
two barges containing 30 men, and was captured after the midshipman had been killed and the
lieutenant and four men wounded. On September 21st he transported General Izard and 3,000 men
from Sackett's Harbor to the Genesee; and then again blockaded Kingston until the two-decker
was nearly completed, when he promptly retired to the Harbor.

The equally cautious Yeo did not come out on the lake till Oct. 15th; he did not indulge in
the empty and useless formality of blockading his antagonist, but assisted the British army
on the Niagara frontier till navigation closed, about Nov. 21st. A couple of days before, Midshipman
McGowan headed an expedition to blow up the two-decker (named the St. Lawrence) with a torpedo,
but was discovered by two of the enemy's boats, which he captured and brought in; the attempt
was abandoned, because the St. Lawrence was found not to be lying in Kingston.

For this year the material loss again fell heaviest on the British, amounting to one 14-gun
brig burned by her crew, one 10-gun schooner burned on the stocks, three gun-boats, three cutters,
and one gig captured; while in return the Americans lost one schooner loaded with seven guns,
one boat loaded with two, and a gig captured and four guns destroyed at Oswego. In men the
British loss was heavier still relatively to that of the Americans, being in killed, wounded,
and prisoners about 300 to 80. But in spite of this loss and damage, which was too trivial
to be of any account to either side, the success of the season was with the British, inasmuch
as they held command over the lake for more than four months, during which time they could
cooeperate with their army; while the Americans held it for barely two months and a half. In
fact the conduct of the two fleets on Lake Ontario during the latter part of the war was almost
farcical. As soon as one, by building, acquired the superiority, the foe at once retired to
port, where he waited until he had built another vessel or two, when he came out, and the other
went into port in turn. Under such circumstances it was hopeless ever to finish the contest
by a stand-up sea-fight, each commander calculating the chances with mathematical exactness.
The only hope of destroying the enemy's fleet was by cooperating with the land-forces in a
successful attack on his main post, when he would be forced to be either destroyed or to fight--and
this cooperation Chauncy refused to give. He seems to have been an excellent organizer, but
he did not use (certainly not in the summer of 1813) his materials by any means to the best
advantage. He was hardly equal to his opponent, and the latter seems to have been little more
than an average officer. Yeo blundered several times, as in the attack on Sackett's Harbor,
in not following up his advantage at Oswego, in showing so little resource in the action off
the Genesee, etc., and he was not troubled by any excess of daring; but during the period when
he was actually cruising against Chauncy on the lake he certainly showed to better advantage
than the American did. With an inferior force he won a partial victory over his opponent off
Niagara, and then kept him in check for six weeks; while Chauncy, with his superior force,
was not only partially defeated once, but, when he did gain a partial victory, failed to take
advantage of it.

In commenting upon the timid and dilatory tactics of the two commanders on Ontario, however,
it must be remembered that the indecisive nature of the results attained had been often paralleled
by the numerous similar encounters that took place on the ocean during the wars of the preceding
century. In the War of the American Revolution, the English fought some 19 fleet actions with
the French, Dutch, and Spaniards; one victory was gained over the French, and one over the
Spaniards, while the 17 others were all indecisive, both sides claiming the victory, and neither
winning it. Of course, some of them, though indecisive as regards loss and damage, were strategetical
victories: thus, Admiral Arbuthnot beat back Admiral Barras off the Chesapeake, in March of
1781; and near the same place in September of the same year the French had their revenge in
the victory (one at least in its results) of the Comte de Grasse over Sir Thomas Graves. In
the five desperate and bloody combats which De Suffrein waged with Sir Edward Hughes in the
East Indies, the laurels were very evenly divided. These five conflicts were not rendered indecisive
by any overwariness in manoeuvring, for De Suffrein's attacks were carried out with as much
boldness as skill, and his stubborn antagonist was never inclined to baulk him of a fair battle;
but the two hardy fighters were so evenly matched that they would pound one another till each
was helpless to inflict injury. Very different were the three consecutive battles that took
place in the same waters, on the 25th of April, 1758, the 3d of August, 1758, and on the 10th
of September, 1759, between Pocock and d'Ache [Footnote: "La Marine Francaise sous le Regne
de Louis XV," par Henri Riviere, Lieutenant de Vaisseau, Chevalier de la Legion d' Honneur.
(Paris et Toulon, 1859), pp. 385 and 439.], where, by skilful manoeuvring, the French admiral
saved his somewhat inferior force from capture, and the English admiral gained indecisive victories.
M. Riviere, after giving a most just and impartial account of the battles, sums up with the
following excellent criticism. [Footnote: Ibid., p. 425. I pay more attention to the sense
than to the letter in my translation.]

"It is this battle, won by Hawke, the 20th of November, 1757, and the combats of Pocock and
d'Ache, from which date two distinct schools in the naval affairs of the 18th century: one
of these was all for promptness and audacity, which were regarded as the indispensable conditions
for victory; the other, on the contrary, praised skilful delays and able evolutions, and created
success by science united to prudence. * * * But these two schools were true only according
to circumstances, not absolutely. When two fleets of equal worth are facing one another, as
in the War of the American Revolution, then tactics should come into play, and audacity would
often be mere foolhardiness. If it happens, on the other hand, as in the Republic, or during
the last years of Louis XV, that an irresolute fleet, without organization, has to contend
with a fleet prepared in every way, then, on the part of this last, audacity is wisdom and
prudence would be cowardice, for it would give an enemy who distrusts himself time to become
more hardy. The only school always true is that one which, freed from all routine, produces
men whose genius will unite in one, in knowing how to apply them appropriately, the audacity
which will carry off victory, and the prudence which knows how to obtain it in preparing for it."

These generalizations are drawn from the results of mighty battles, but they apply just as
well to the campaigns carried on on a small scale, or even to single-ship actions. Chauncy,
as already said, does not deserve the praise which most American historians, and especially
Cooper, have lavished on him as well as on all our other officers of that period. Such indiscriminate
eulogy entirely detracts from the worth of a writer's favorable criticisms. Our average commander
was, I firmly believe, at that time superior to the average commander of any other nation;
but to get at this average we must include Chauncy, Rodgers, and Angus, as well as Hull, Macdonough,
Perry, Porter, Bainbridge, Biddle, Lawrence, and Warrington.

Sir James Yeo did to the full as well as his opponent, and like him was a good organizer; but
he did little enough. His campaigns must be considered as being conducted well or ill according
as he is believed to have commanded better men than his opponent, or not. If, as many British
writers contend, his crews were an overmatch for the Americans, man for man, even to a slight
degree, then Yeo's conduct was very cowardly; if, on the contrary, the officers and men of
the two fleets were on a par, then he acted properly and outgeneralled his opponent. It is
to be regretted that most of the histories written on the subject, on either side of the Atlantic,
should be of the "hurrah" order of literature, with no attempt whatever to get at the truth,
but merely to explain away the defeats or immensely exaggerate the victories suffered or gained
by their own side.

Erie and the Upper Lakes.

Hitherto the vessels on these lakes (as well as on Ontario) had been under the command of Commodore
Chauncy; but they were now formed into a separate department, under Captain Arthur Sinclair.
The Americans had, of course, complete supremacy, and no attempt was seriously made to contest
it with them; but they received a couple of stinging, if not very important, defeats. It is
rather singular that here the British, who began with a large force, while there was none whatever
to oppose it, should have had it by degrees completely annihilated; and should have then, and
not till then, when apparently rendered harmless, have turned round and partially revenged
themselves by two cutting-out expeditions which were as boldly executed as they were skilfully
planned.

Captain Sinclair sailed into Lake Huron with the Niagara, Caledonia, Ariel, Scorpion, and Tigress,
and on July 20th burnt the fort and barracks of St. Joseph, which were abandoned by their garrison.
On Aug. 4th he arrived off the fort of Machilimacinac (Mackinaw), which was situated on such
an eminence that the guns of the vessels could not reach it. Accordingly, the troops under
Col. Croghan were landed, covered by the fire of the schooners, very successfully; but when
they tried to carry the fort they were driven back with the loss of 70 men. Thence Sinclair
sailed to the Nattagawassa Creek, attacked and destroyed a block-house three miles up it, which
mounted three light guns, and also a schooner called the Nancy; but the commander of the schooner,
Lieutenant Worsely, with his crew, escaped up the river. Captain Sinclair then departed for
Lake Erie, leaving the Scorpion, Lieutenant Turner, and Tigress, Sailing-master Champlin, to
blockade the Nattagawassa. News was received by the British from a party of Indians that the
two American vessels were five leagues apart, and it was at once resolved to attempt their
capture. On the first of September, in the evening, four boats started out, one manned by 20
seamen, under Lieutenant Worsely, the three others by 72 soldiers under Lieutenants Bulger,
Armstrong, and Raderhurst of the army--in all 92 men and two guns, a 6- and a 3-pounder. A
number of Indians accompanied the expedition but took no part in the fighting. At sunset on
the 2d the boats arrived at St. Mary's Strait, and spent 24 hours in finding out where the
American schooners were. At 6 P.M. on the 3d, the nearest vessel, the Tigress, was made out,
six miles off, and they pulled for her. It was very dark, and they were not discovered till
they had come within fifty yards, when Champlin at once fired his long 24 at them; before it
could be reloaded the four boats had dashed up, those of Lieutenants Worsely and Armstrong
placing themselves on the starboard, and those of Lieutenants Bulger and Raderhurst on the
port side. There was a short, sharp struggle, and the schooner was carried. Of her crew of
28 men, 3 were killed and five, including Mr. Champlin, dangerously wounded. The assailants
lost three seamen killed, Lieutenant Bulger, seven soldiers and several seamen wounded. [Footnote:
Letter of Lieutenant A. H. Bulger, Sept. 7, 1814. James says only 3 killed and 8 wounded; but
Lieutenant Bulger distinctly says in addition, "and several seamen wounded."] "The defence
of this vessel," writes Lieut. Bulger, "did credit to her officers, who were all severely wounded."
Next day the prisoners were sent on shore; and on the 5th the Scorpion was discovered working
up to join her consort, entirely ignorant of what had happened. She anchored about 2 miles
from the Tigress; and next morning at 6 o'clock the latter slipped her cable and ran down under
the jib and fore-sail, the American ensign and pendant still flying. When within 10 yards of
the Scorpion, the concealed soldiers jumped up, poured a volley into her which killed 2 and
wounded 2 men, and the next moment carried her, her surprised crew of 30 men making no resistance.
The whole affair reflected great credit on the enterprise and pluck of the British without
being discreditable to the Americans. It was like Lieut. Elliot's capture of the Detroit and
Caledonia.

Meanwhile a still more daring cutting-out expedition had taken place at the foot of Lake Erie.
The three American schooners, Ohio, Somers, and Porcupine, each with 30 men, under Lieut. Conkling,
were anchored just at the outlet of the lake, to cover the flank of the works at Fort Erie.
On the night of August 12th, Capt. Dobbs, of the Charwell, and Lieut. Radcliffe, of the Netly,
with 75 seamen and marines from their two vessels, which were lying off Fort Erie, resolved
to attempt the capture of the schooners. The seamen carried the captain's gig upon their shoulders
from Queenstown to Frenchman's Creek, a distance of 20 miles; thence, by the aid of some militia,
5 batteaux as well as the gig were carried 8 miles across the woods to Lake Erie, and the party
(whether with or without the militia I do not know) embarked in them. Between 11 and 12 the
boats were discovered a short distance ahead of the Somers and hailed. They answered "provision
boats," which deceived the officer on deck, as such boats had been in the habit of passing
and repassing continually during the night. Before he discovered his mistake the boats drifted
across his hawse, cut his cables, and ran him aboard with a volley of musketry, which wounded
two of his men, and before the others could get on deck the schooner was captured. In another
moment the British boats were alongside the Ohio, Lieut. Conkling's vessel. Here the people
had hurried on deck, and there was a moment's sharp struggle, in which the assailants lost
Lieut. Radcliffe and one seaman killed and six seamen and marines wounded; but on board the
Ohio Lieut. Conkling and Sailing-master M. Cally were shot down, one seaman killed, and four
wounded, and Captain Dobbs carried her, sword in hand. The Porcupine was not molested, and
made no effort to interfere with the British in their retreat; so they drifted down the rapids
with their two prizes and secured them below. The boldness of this enterprise will be appreciated
when it is remembered that but 75 British seamen (unless there were some militia along), with
no artillery, attacked and captured two out of three fine schooners, armed each with a long
32 or 24, and an aggregate of 90 men; and that this had been done in waters where the gig and
five batteaux of the victors were the only British vessels afloat.

CHAMPLAIN.

This lake, which had hitherto played but an inconspicuous part, was now to become the scene
of the greatest naval battle of the war. A British army of 11,000 men under Sir George Prevost
undertook the invasion of New York by advancing up the western bank of Lake Champlain. This
advance was impracticable unless there was a sufficiently strong British naval force to drive
back the American squadron at the same time. Accordingly, the British began to construct a
frigate, the Confiance, to be added to their already existing force, which consisted of a brig,
two sloops, and 12 or 14 gun-boats. The Americans already possessed a heavy corvette, a schooner,
a small sloop, and 10 gun-boats or row-galleys; they now began to build a large brig, the Eagle,
which was launched about the 16th of August. Nine days later, on the 25th, the Confiance was
launched. The two squadrons were equally deficient in stores, etc.; the Confiance having locks
to her guns, some of which could not be used, while the American schooner Ticonderoga had to
fire her guns by means of pistols flashed at the touchholes (like Barclay on Lake Erie). Macdonough
and Downie were hurried into action before they had time to prepare themselves thoroughly;
but it was a disadvantage common to both, and arose from the nature of the case, which called
for immediate action. The British army advanced slowly toward Plattsburg, which was held by
General Macomb with less than 2,000 effective American troops. Captain Thomas Macdonough, the
American commodore, took the lake a day or two before his antagonist, and came to anchor in
Plattsburg harbor. The British fleet, under Captain George Downie, moved from Isle-aux-Noix
on Sept. 8th, and on the morning of the 11th sailed into Plattsburg harbor.

The American force consisted of the ship Saratoga, Captain T. Macdonough, of about 734 tons,
[Footnote: In the Naval Archives ("Masters'-Commandant Letters," 1814, 1, No. 134) is a letter
from Macdonough in which he states that the Saratoga is intermediate in size between the Pike,
of 875, and the Madison, of 593 tons; this would make her 734. The Eagle was very nearly the
size of the Lawrence or Niagara, on Lake Erie. The Ticonderoga was originally a small steamer,
but Commodore Macdonough had her schooner-rigged, because he found that her machinery got out
of order on almost every trip that she took. Her tonnage is only approximately known, but she
was of the same size as the Linnet.] carrying eight long 24-pounders, six 42-pound and twelve
32-pound carronades; the brig Eagle, Captain Robert Henly, of about 500 tons, carrying eight
long 18's and twelve 32-pound carronades; schooner Ticonderoga, Lieut.-Com. Stephen Cassin,
of about 350 tons carrying eight long 12-pounders, four long 18-pounders, and five 32-pound
carronades; sloop Preble, Lieutenant Charles Budd, of about 80 tons, mounting seven long 9's;
the row-galleys Boxer, Centipede, Nettle, Allen, Viper, and Burrows, each of about 70 tons,
and mounting one long 24- and one short 18-pounder; and the row-galleys Wilmer, Ludlow, Aylwin,
and Ballard, each of about 40 tons, and mounting one long 12. James puts down the number of
men on board the squadron as 950,--merely a guess, as he gives no authority. Cooper says "about
850 men, including officers, and a small detachment of soldiers to act as marines." Lossing
(p. 866, note 1) says 882 in all. Vol. xiv of the "American State Papers" contains on p. 572
the prize-money list presented by the purser, George Beale, Jr. This numbers the men (the dead
being represented by their heirs or executors) up to 915, including soldiers and seamen, but
many of the numbers are omitted, probably owing to the fact that their owners, though belonging
on board; happened to be absent on shore, or in the hospital; so that the actual number of
names tallies very closely with that given by Lossing; and accordingly I shall take that. [Footnote:
In the Naval Archives are numerous letters from Macdonough, in which he states continually
that, as fast as they arrive, he substitutes sailors for the soldiers with which the vessels
were originally manned. Men were continually being sent ashore on account of sickness. In the
Bureau of Navigation is the log-book of "sloop-of-war Surprise, Captain Robert Henly" (Surprise
was the name the Eagle originally went by). It mentions from time to time that men were buried
and sent ashore to the hospital (five being sent ashore on September 2d); and finally mentions
that the places of the absent were partially filled by a draft of 21 soldiers, to act as marines.
The notes on the day of battle are very brief.] The total number of men in the galleys (including
a number of soldiers, as there were not enough sailors) was 350. The exact proportions in which
this force was distributed among the gunboats can not be told, but it may be roughly said to
be 41 in each large galley and 26 in each small one. The complement of the Saratoga was 210,
of the Eagle, 130, of the Ticonderoga, 100, and of the Preble, 30; but the first three had
also a few soldiers distributed between them. The following list is probably pretty accurate
as to the aggregate; but there may have been a score or two fewer men on the gun-boats, or
more on the larger vessels.

MACDONOUGH'S FORCE.

                                            Metal, from long
Name.             Tons.  Crew.  Broadside.   or short guns.

Saratoga,       734    240    414 lbs.    -+- long,   96
                                             '- short, 318
Eagle,          500    150    264 "       -+- long,   72
                                             '- short, 192
Ticonderoga,    350    112    180 "       -+- long,   84
                                             '- short,  96
Preble,          80     30     36 "           long,   36

Six gun-boats,    420    246    252 "       -+- long,  144
                                             '- short, 108
Four gun-boats,   160    104     48 "           long,   48

In all, 14 vessels of 2,244 tons and 882 men, with 86 guns throwing at a broadside 1,194 lbs.
of shot, 480 from long, and 714 from short guns.

The force of the British squadron in guns and ships is known accurately, as most of it was
captured. The Confiance rated for years in our lists as a frigate of the class of the Constellation,
Congress, and Macedonian; she was thus of over 1,200 tons. (Cooper says more, "nearly double
the tonnage of the Saratoga.") She carried on her main-deck thirty long 24's, fifteen in each
broadside. She did not have a complete spar-deck; on her poop, which came forward to the mizzen-mast,
were two 32-pound (or possibly 42-pound) carronades and on her spacious top-gallant forecastle
were four 32--(or 42-) pound carronades, and a long 24 on a pivot. [Footnote: This is her armament
as given by Cooper, on the authority of Lieutenant E. A. F. Lavallette. who was in charge of
her for three months, and went aboard her ten minutes after the Linnet struck.] She had aboard
her a furnace for heating shot; eight or ten of which heated shot were found with the furnace.
[Footnote: James stigmatizes the statement of Commodore Macdonough about the furnace as "as
gross a falsehood as ever was uttered"; but he gives no authority for the denial, and it appears
to have been merely an ebullition of spleen on his part. Every American officer who went aboard
the Confiance saw the furnace and the hot shot.] This was, of course, a perfectly legitimate
advantage. The Linnet, Captain Daniel Pring, was a brig of the same size as the Ticonderoga,
mounting 16 long 12's. The Chubb and Finch, Lieutenants James McGhie and William Hicks, were
formerly the American sloops Growler and Eagle, of 112 and 110 tons respectively. The former
mounted ten 18-pound carronades and one long 6; the latter, six 18-pound carronades, four long
6's, and one short 18. There were twelve gun-boats. [Footnote: Letter of General George Prevost,
Sept. 11, 1814. All the American accounts say 13; the British official account had best be
taken. James says only ten, but gives no authority; he appears to have been entirely ignorant
of all things connected with this action.] Five of these were large, of about 70 tons each;
three mounted a long 24 and a 32-pound carronade each; one mounted a long 18 and a 32-pound
carronade; one a long 18 and a short 18. Seven were smaller, of about 40 tons each; three of
these carried each a long 18, and four carried each a 32-pound carronade. There is greater
difficulty in finding out the number of men in the British fleet. American historians are unanimous
in stating it at from 1,000 to 1,100; British historians never do any thing but copy James
blindly. Midshipman Lea of the Confiance, in a letter (already quoted) published in the "London
Naval Chronicle," vol. xxxii, p. 292, gives her crew as 300; but more than this amount of dead
and prisoners were taken out of her. The number given her by Commander Ward in his "Naval Tactics,"
is probably nearest right--325. [Footnote: James gives her but 270 men,--without stating his
authority.] The Linnet had about 125 men, and the Chubb and Finch about 50 men each. According
to Admiral Paulding (given by Lossing, in his "Field Book of the War of 1812," p. 868) their
gun-boats averaged 50 men each. This is probably true, as they were manned largely by soldiers,
any number of whom could be spared from Sir George Prevost's great army; but it may be best
to consider the large ones as having 41, and the small 26 men, which were the complements of
the American gun-boats of the same sizes. The following, then, is the force of

DOWNIE'S SQUADRON.

                                               From what guns,
Name.            Tonnage.  Crew. Broadside.     long or short.

Confiance,       1200     325    480 lbs.    -+- long,  384
                                                '- short,  96
Linnet,           350     125     96 "           long,   96

Chubb,            112      50     96 "       -+- long,    6
                                                '- short,  90
Finch,            110      50     84 "       -+- long,   12
                                                '- short,  72
Five gun-boats,     350     205    254 "       -+- long,   12
                                                '- short,  72
Seven gun-boats,    280     182    182 "       -+- long,   54
                                                '- short, 128

In all, 16 vessels, of about 2,402 tons, with 937 men, [Footnote: About; there were probably
more rather than less.] and a total of 92 guns, throwing at a broadside 1,192 lbs., 660 from
long and 532 from short pieces.

These are widely different from the figures that appear in the pages of most British historians,
from Sir Archibald Alison down and up. Thus, in the "History of the British Navy," by C. D.
Yonge (already quoted), it is said that on Lake Champlain "our (the British) force was manifestly
and vastly inferior, * * * their (the American) broadside outweighing ours in more than the
proportion of three to two, while the difference in their tonnage and in the number of their
crews was still more in their favor." None of these historians, or quasi-historians, have made
the faintest effort to find out the facts for themselves, following James' figures with blind
reliance, and accordingly it is only necessary to discuss the latter. This reputable gentleman
ends his account ("Naval Occurrences," p. 424) by remarking that Macdonough wrote as he did
because "he knew that nothing would stamp a falsehood with currency equal to a pious expression,
* * * his falsehoods equalling in number the lines of his letter." These remarks are interesting
as showing the unbiassed and truthful character of the author, rather than for any particular
weight they will have in influencing any one's judgment on Commodore Macdonough. James gives
the engaged force of the British as "8 vessels, of 1,426 tons, with 537 men, and throwing 765
lbs. of shot." To reduce the force down to this, he first excludes the Finch, because she "grounded
opposite an American battery before the engagement commenced," which reads especially well
in connection with Capt. Pring's official letter: "Lieut. Hicks, of the Finch, had the mortification
to strike on a reef of rocks to the eastward of Crab Island about the middle of the engagement."
[Footnote: The italics are mine. The letter is given in full in the "Naval Chronicle."] What
James means cannot be imagined; no stretch of language will convert "about the middle of" into
"before." The Finch struck on the reef in consequence of having been disabled and rendered
helpless by the fire from the Ticonderoga. Adding her force to James' statement (counting her
crew only as he gives it), we get 9 vessels, 1,536 tons, 577 men, 849 lbs. of shot. James also
excludes five gun-boats, because they ran away almost as soon as the action commenced (vol.
vi, p. 501). This assertion is by no means equivalent to the statement in Captain Pring's letter
"that the flotilla of gun-boats had abandoned the object assigned to them," and, if it was,
it would not warrant his excluding the five gun-boats. Their flight may have been disgraceful,
but they formed part of the attacking force nevertheless; almost any general could say that
he had won against superior numbers if he refused to count in any of his own men whom he suspected
of behaving badly. James gives his 10 gun-boats 294 men and 13 guns (two long 24's, five long
18's, six 32-pound carronades), and makes them average 45 tons; adding on the five he leaves
out, we get 14 vessels, of 1,761 tons, with 714 men, throwing at a broadside 1,025 lbs. of
shot (591 from long guns, 434 from carronades). But Sir George Prevost, in the letter already
quoted, says there were 12 gun-boats, and the American accounts say more. Supposing the two
gun-boats James did not include at all to be equal respectively to one of the largest and one
of the smallest of the gun-boats as he gives them ("Naval Occurrences," p. 417); that is, one
to have had 35 men, a long 24, and a 32-pound carronade, the other, 25 men and a 32-pound carronade,
we get for Downie's force 16 vessels, of 1,851 tons, with 774 men, throwing at a broadside
1,113 lbs. of shot (615 from long guns, 498 from carronades). It must be remembered that so
far I have merely corrected James by means of the authorities from which he draws his account--the
official letters of the British commanders. I have not brought up a single American authority
against him, but have only made such alterations as a writer could with nothing whatever but
the accounts of Sir George Prevost and Captain Pring before him to compare with James. Thus
it is seen that according to James himself Downie really had 774 men to Macdonough's 882, and
threw at a broadside 1,113 lbs. of shot to Macdonough's 1,194 lbs. James says ("Naval Occurrences,"
pp. 410, 413): "Let it be recollected, no musketry was employed on either side," and "The marines
were of no use, as the action was fought out of the range of musketry"; the 106 additional
men on the part of the Americans were thus not of much consequence, the action being fought
at anchor, and there being men enough to manage the guns and perform every other duty. So we
need only attend to the broadside force. Here, then, Downie could present at a broadside 615
lbs. of shot from long guns to Macdonough's 480, and 498 lbs. from carronades to Macdonough's
714; or, he threw 135 lbs. of shot more from his long guns, and 216 less from his carronades.
This is equivalent to Downie's having seven long 18's and one long 9, and Macdonough's having
one 24-pound and six 32-pound carronades. A 32-pound carronade is not equal to a long 18; so
that even by James' own showing Downie's force was slightly the superior.

Thus far, I may repeat, I have corrected James solely by the evidence of his own side; now
I shall bring in some American authorities. These do not contradict the British official letters,
for they virtually agree with them; but they do go against James' unsupported assertions, and,
being made by naval officers of irreproachable reputation, will certainly outweigh them. In
the first place, James asserts that on the main-deck of the Confiance but 13 guns were presented
in broadside, two 32-pound carronades being thrust through the bridle- and two others through
the stern-ports; so he excludes two of her guns from the broadside. Such guns would have been
of great use to her at certain stages of the combat, and ought to be included in the force.
But besides this the American officers positively say that she had a broadside of 15 guns.
Adding these two guns, and making a trifling change in the arrangement of the guns in the row-galleys,
we get a broadside of 1,192 lbs., exactly as I have given it above. There is no difficulty
in accounting for the difference of tonnage as given by James and by the Americans, for we
have considered the same subject in reference to the battle of Lake Erie. James calculates
the American tonnage as if for sea-vessels of deep holds, while, as regards the British vessels,
he allows for the shallow holds that all the lake craft had; that is, he gives in one the nominal,
in the other the real, tonnage. This fully accounts for the discrepancy. It only remains to
account for the difference in the number of men. From James we can get 772. In the first place,
we can reason by analogy. I have already shown that, as regards the battle of Lake Erie, he
is convicted (by English, not by American, evidence) of having underestimated Barclay's force
by about 25 per cent. If he did the same thing here, the British force was over 1,000 strong,
and I have no doubt that it was. But we have other proofs. On p. 417 of the "Naval Occurrences"
he says the complement of the four captured British vessels amounted to 420 men, of whom 54
were killed in action, leaving 366 prisoners, including the wounded. But the report of prisoners,
as given by the American authorities, gives 369 officers and seamen unhurt or but slightly
wounded, 57 wounded men paroled, and other wounded whose number was unspecified. Supposing
this number to have been 82, and adding 54 dead, we would get in all 550 men for the four ships,
the number I have adopted in my list. This would make the British wounded 129 instead of 116,
as James says: but neither the Americans nor the British seem to have enumerated all their
wounded in this fight. Taking into account all these considerations, it will be seen that the
figures I have given are probably approximately correct, and, at any rate, indicate pretty
closely the relative strength of the two squadrons. The slight differences in tonnage and crews
(158 tons and 55 men, in favor of the British) are so trivial that they need not be taken into
account, and we will merely consider the broadside force. In absolute weight of metal the two
combatants were evenly matched--almost exactly;--but whereas from Downie's broadside of 1,192
lbs. 660 were from long and 532 from short guns, of Macdonough's broadside of 1,194 lbs., but
480 were from long and 714 from short pieces. The forces were thus equal, except that Downie
opposed 180 lbs. from long guns to 182 from carronades; as if 10 long 18's were opposed to
ten 18-pound carronades. This would make the odds on their face about 10 to 9 against the Americans;
in reality they were greater, for the possession of the Confiance was a very great advantage.
The action is, as regards metal, the exact reverse of those between Chauncy and Yeo. Take,
for example, the fight off Burlington on Sept. 28, 1813. Yeo's broadside was 1,374 lbs. to
Chauncy's 1,288; but whereas only 180 of Yeo's was from long guns, of Chauncy's but 536 was
from carronades. Chauncy's fleet was thus much the superior. At least we must say this: if
Macdonough beat merely an equal force, then Yeo made a most disgraceful and cowardly flight
before an inferior foe; but if we contend that Macdonough's force was inferior to that of his
antagonist, then we must admit that Yeo's was in like manner inferior to Chauncy's. These rules
work both ways. The Confiance was a heavier vessel than the Pike, presenting in broadside one
long 24- and three 32-pound carronades more than the latter. James (vol. vi, p. 355) says:
"The Pike alone was nearly a match for Sir James Yeo's squadron," and Brenton says (vol. ii,
503): "The General Pike was more than a match for the whole British squadron." Neither of these
writers means quite as much as he says, for the logical result would be that the Confiance
alone was a match for all of Macdonough's force. Still it is safe to say that the Pike gave
Chauncy a great advantage, and that the Confiance made Downie's fleet much superior to Macdonough's.

Macdonough saw that the British would be forced to make the attack in order to get the control
of the waters. On this long, narrow lake the winds usually blow pretty nearly north or south,
and the set of the current is of course northward; all the vessels, being flat and shallow,
could not beat to windward well, so there was little chance of the British making the attack
when there was a southerly wind blowing. So late in the season there was danger of sudden and
furious gales, which would make it risky for Downie to wait outside the bay till the wind suited
him; and inside the bay the wind was pretty sure to be light and baffling. Young Macdonough
(then but 28 years of age) calculated all these chances very coolly and decided to await the
attack at anchor in Plattsburg Bay, with the head of his line so far to the north that it could
hardly be turned; and then proceeded to make all the other preparations with the same foresight.
Not only were his vessels provided with springs, but also with anchors to be used astern in
any emergency. The Saratoga was further prepared for a change of wind, or for the necessity
of winding ship, by having a kedge planted broad off on each of her bows, with a hawser and
preventer hawser (hanging in bights under water) leading from each quarter to the kedge on
that side. There had not been time to train the men thoroughly at the guns; and to make these
produce their full effect the constant supervision of the officers had to be exerted. The British
were laboring under this same disadvantage, but neither side felt the want very much, as the
smooth water, stationary position of the ships, and fair range, made the fire of both sides
very destructive.

Plattsburg Bay is deep and opens to the southward; so that a wind which would enable the British
to sail up the lake would force them to beat when entering the bay. The east side of the mouth
of the bay is formed by Cumberland Head; the entrance is about a mile and a half across, and
the other boundary, southwest from the Head, is an extensive shoal, and a small, low island.
This is called Crab Island, and on it was a hospital and one six-pounder gun, which was to
be manned in case of necessity by the strongest patients. Macdonough had anchored in a north-and-south
line a little to the south of the outlet of the Saranac, and out of range of the shore batteries,
being two miles from the western shore. The head of his line was so near Cumberland Head that
an attempt to turn it would place the opponent under a very heavy fire, while to the south
the shoal prevented a flank attack. The Eagle lay to the north, flanked on each side by a couple
of gun-boats; then came the Saratoga, with three gun-boats between her and the Ticonderoga,
the next in line; then came three gun-boats and the Preble. The four large vessels were at
anchor; the galleys being under their sweeps and forming a second line about 40 yards back,
some of them keeping their places and some not doing so. By this arrangement his line could
not be doubled upon, there was not room to anchor on his broadside out of reach of his carronades,
and the enemy was forced to attack him by standing in bows on.

The morning of September 11th opened with a light breeze from the northeast. Downie's fleet
weighed anchor at daylight, and came down the lake with the wind nearly aft, the booms of the
two sloops swinging out to starboard. At half-past seven, [Footnote: The letters of the two
commanders conflict a little as to time, both absolutely and relatively. Pring says the action
lasted two hours and three quarters, the American accounts, two hours and twenty minutes. Pring
says it began at 8.00; Macdonough says a few minutes before nine, etc. I take the mean time.]
the people in the ships could see their adversaries' upper sails across the narrow strip of
land ending in Cumberland Head, before the British doubled the latter. Captain Downie hove
to with his four large vessels when he had fairly opened the Bay, and waited for his galleys
to overtake him. Then his four vessels filled on the starboard tack and headed for the American
line, going abreast, the Chubb to the north, heading well to windward of the Eagle, for whose
bows the Linnet was headed, while the Confiance was to be laid athwart the hawse of the Saratoga;
the Finch was to leeward with the twelve gun-boats, and was to engage the rear of the American
line.

As the English squadron stood bravely in, young Macdonough, who feared his foes not at all,
but his God a great deal, knelt for a moment, with his officers, on the quarter-deck; and then
ensued a few minutes of perfect quiet, the men waiting with grim expectancy for the opening
of the fight. The Eagle spoke first with her long 18's, but to no effect, for the shot fell
short. Then, as the Linnet passed the Saratoga, she fired her broadside of long 12's, but her
shot also fell short, except one that struck a hen-coop which happened to be aboard the Saratoga.
There was a game cock inside, and, instead of being frightened at his sudden release, he jumped
up on a gun-slide, clapped his wings, and crowed lustily. The men laughed and cheered; and
immediately afterward Macdonough himself fired the first shot from one of the long guns. The
24-pound ball struck the Confiance near the hawse-hole and ranged the length of her deck, killing
and wounding several men. All the American long guns now opened and were replied to by the
British galleys.

The Confiance stood steadily on without replying. But she was baffled by shifting winds, and
was soon so cut up, having both her port bow-anchors shot away, and suffering much loss, that
she was obliged to port her helm and come to while still nearly a quarter of a mile distant
from the Saratoga. Captain Downie came to anchor in grand style,--securing every thing carefully
before he fired a gun, and then opening with a terribly destructive broadside. The Chubb and
Linnet stood farther in, and anchored forward the Eagle's beam. Meanwhile the Finch got abreast
of the Ticonderoga, under her sweeps, supported by the gun-boats. The main fighting was thus
to take place between the vans, where the Eagle, Saratoga, and six or seven gun-boats were
engaged with the Chubb, Linnet, Confiance, and two or three gun-boats; while in the rear, the
Ticonderoga, the Preble, and the other American galleys engaged the Finch and the remaining
nine or ten English galleys. The battle at the foot of the line was fought on the part of the
Americans to prevent their flank being turned, and on the part of the British to effect that
object. At first, the fighting was at long range, but gradually the British galleys closed
up, firing very well. The American galleys at this end of the line were chiefly the small ones,
armed with one 12-pounder apiece, and they by degrees drew back before the heavy fire of their
opponents. About an hour after the discharge of the first gun had been fired the Finch closed
up toward the Ticonderoga, and was completely crippled by a couple of broadsides from the latter.
She drifted helplessly down the line and grounded near Crab Island; some of the convalescent
patients manned the six-pounder and fired a shot or two at her, when she struck, nearly half
of her crew being killed or wounded. About the same time the British gun-boats forced the Preble
out of line, whereupon she cut her cable and drifted inshore out of the fight. Two or three
of the British gun-boats had already been sufficiently damaged by some of the shot from the
Ticonderoga's long guns to make them wary; and the contest at this part of the line narrowed
down to one between the American schooner and the remaining British gun-boats, who combined
to make a most determined attack upon her. So hastily had the squadron been fitted out that
many of the matches for her guns were at the last moment found to be defective. The captain
of one of the divisions was a midshipman, but sixteen years old, Hiram Paulding. When he found
the matches to be bad he fired the guns of his section by having pistols flashed at them, and
continued this through the whole fight. The Ticonderoga's commander, Lieut. Cassin, fought
his schooner most nobly. He kept walking the taffrail amidst showers of musketry and grape,
coolly watching the movements of the galleys and directing the guns to be loaded with canister
and bags of bullets, when the enemy tried to board. The British galleys were handled with determined
gallantry, under the command of Lieutenant Bell. Had they driven off the Ticonderoga they would
have won the day for their side, and they pushed up till they were not a boat-hook's length
distant, to try to carry her by boarding; but every attempt was repulsed and they were forced
to draw off, some of them so crippled by the slaughter they had suffered that they could hardly
man the oars.

Meanwhile the fighting at the head of the line had been even fiercer. The first broadside of
the Confiance, fired from 16 long 24's, double shotted, coolly sighted, in smooth water, at
point-blank range, produced the most terrible effect on the Saratoga. Her hull shivered all
over with the shock, and when the crash subsided nearly half of her people were seen stretched
on deck, for many had been knocked down who were not seriously hurt. Among the slain was her
first lieutenant, Peter Gamble; he was kneeling down to sight the bow-gun, when a shot entered
the port, split the quoin, and drove a portion of it against his side, killing him without
breaking the skin. The survivors carried on the fight with undiminished energy. Macdonough
himself worked like a common sailor, in pointing and handling a favorite gun. While bending
over to sight it a round shot cut in two the spanker boom, which fell on his head and struck
him senseless for two or three minutes; he then leaped to his feet and continued as before,
when a shot took off the head of the captain of the gun and drove it in his face with such
a force as to knock him to the other side of the deck. But after the first broadside not so
much injury was done; the guns of the Confiance had been levelled to point-blank range, and
as the quoins were loosened by the successive discharges they were not properly replaced, so
that her broadsides kept going higher and higher and doing less and less damage. Very shortly
after the beginning of the action her gallant captain was slain. He was standing behind one
of the long guns when a shot from the Saratoga struck it and threw it completely off the carriage
against his right groin, killing him almost instantly. His skin was not broken; a black mark,
about the size of a small plate, was the only visible injury. His watch was found flattened,
with its hands pointing to the very second at which he received the fatal blow. As the contest
went on the fire gradually decreased in weight, the guns being disabled. The inexperience of
both crews partly caused this. The American sailors overloaded their carronades so as to very
much destroy the effect of their fire; when the officers became disabled, the men would cram
the guns with shot till the last projected from the muzzle. Of course, this lessened the execution,
and also gradually crippled the guns.

At the extreme head of the line the advantage had been with the British. The Chubb and Linnet
had begun a brisk engagement with the Eagle and American gun-boats. In a short time the Chubb
had her cable, bowsprit, and main-boom shot away, drifted within the American lines, and was
taken possession of by one of the Saratoga's midshipmen. The Linnet paid no attention to the
American gunboats, directing her whole fire against the Eagle, and the latter was, in addition,
exposed to part of the fire of the Confiance. After keeping up a heavy fire for a long time
her springs were shot away, and she came up into the wind, hanging so that she could not return
a shot to the well-directed broadsides of the Linnet. Henly accordingly cut his cable, started
home his top-sails, ran down, and anchored by the stern between and inshore of the Confiance
and Ticonderoga, from which position he opened on the Confiance. The Linnet now directed her
attention to the American gun-boats, which at this end of the line were very well fought, but
she soon drove them off, and then sprung her broadside so as to rake the Saratoga on her bows.

Macdonough by this time had his hands full, and his fire was slackening; he was bearing the
whole brunt of the action, with the frigate on his beam and the brig raking him. Twice his
ship had been set on fire by the hot shot of the Confiance; one by one his long guns were disabled
by shot, and his carronades were either treated the same way or else rendered useless by excessive
overcharging. Finally but a single carronade was left in the starboard batteries, and on firing
it the naval-bolt broke, the gun flew off the carriage and fell down the main hatch, leaving
the Commodore without a single gun to oppose to the few the Confiance still presented. The
battle would have been lost had not Macdonough's foresight provided the means of retrieving
it. The anchor suspended astern of the Saratoga was let go, and the men hauled in on the hawser
that led to the starboard quarter, bringing the ship's stern up over the kedge. The ship now
rode by the kedge and by a line that had been bent to a bight in the stream cable, and she
was raked badly by the accurate fire of the Linnet. By rousing on the line the ship was at
length got so far round that the aftermost gun of the port broadside bore on the Confiance.
The men had been sent forward to keep as much out of harm's way as possible, and now some were
at once called back to man the piece, which then opened with effect. The next gun was treated
in the same manner; but the ship now hung and would go no farther round. The hawser leading
from the port quarter was then got forward under the bows and passed aft to the starboard quarter,
and a minute afterward the ship's whole port battery opened with fatal effect. The Confiance
meanwhile had also attempted to round. Her springs, like those of the Linnet, were on the starboard
side, and so of course could not be shot away as the Eagle's were; but, as she had nothing
but springs to rely on, her efforts did little beyond forcing her forward, and she hung with
her head to the wind. She had lost over half of her crew, [Footnote: Midshipman Lee, in his
letter already quoted, says "not five men were left unhurt"; this would of course include bruises,
etc., as hurts.] most of her guns on the engaged side were dismounted, and her stout masts
had been splintered till they looked like bundles of matches; her sails had been torn to rags,
and she was forced to strike, about two hours after she had fired the first broadside. Without
pausing a minute the Saratoga again hauled on her starboard hawser till her broadside was sprung
to bear on the Linnet, and the ship and brig began a brisk fight, which the Eagle from her
position could take no part in, while the Ticonderoga was just finishing up the British galleys.
The shattered and disabled state of the Linnet's masts, sails, and yards precluded the most
distant hope of Capt. Pring's effecting his escape by cutting his cable; but he kept up a most
gallant fight with his greatly superior foe, in hopes that some of the gun-boats would come
and tow him off, and despatched a lieutenant to the Confiance to ascertain her state. The lieutenant
returned with news of Capt. Downie's death, while the British gun-boats had been driven half
a mile off; and, after having maintained the fight single-handed for fifteen minutes, until,
from the number of shot between wind and water, the water had risen a foot above her lower
deck, the plucky little brig hauled down her colors, and the fight ended, a little over two
hours and a half after the first gun had been fired. Not one of the larger vessels had a mast
that would bear canvas, and the prizes were in a sinking condition. The British galleys drifted
to leeward, none with their colors up; but as the Saratoga's boarding-officer passed along
the deck of the Confiance he accidentally ran against a lock-string of one of her starboard
guns, [Footnote: A sufficient commentary, by the way, on James' assertion that the guns of
the Confiance had to be fired by matches, as the gun-locks did not fit!] and it went off. This
was apparently understood as a signal by the galleys, and they moved slowly off, pulling but
a very few sweeps, and not one of them hoisting an ensign.

On both sides the ships had been cut up in the most extraordinary manner; the Saratoga had
55 shot-holes in her hull, and the Confiance 105 in hers, and the Eagle and Linnet had suffered
in proportion. The number of killed and wounded can not be exactly stated; it was probably
about 200 on the American side, and over 300 on the British. [Footnote: Macdonough returned
his loss as follows:

               Killed.    Wounded.
Saratoga.      28          29
Eagle.         13          20
Ticonderoga     6           6
Preble.         2
Boxer.          3           1
Centipede.                  1
Wilmer.                     1

A total of 52 killed and 58 wounded; but the latter head apparently only included those who
had to go to the hospital. Probably about 90 additional were more or less slightly wounded.
Captain Pring, in his letter of Sept. 12th, says the Confiance had 41 killed and 40 wounded;
the Linnet, 10 killed and 14 wounded; the Chubb, 6 killed and 16 wounded; the Finch, 2 wounded:
in all, 57 killed and 72 wounded. But he adds "that no opportunity has offered to muster *
* * this is the whole as yet ascertained to be killed or wounded." The Americans took out 180
dead and wounded from the Confiance, 50 from the Linnet, and 40 from the Chubb and Finch; in
all, 270. James ("Naval Occurrences," p. 412) says the Confiance had 83 wounded. As Captain
Pring wrote his letter in Plattsburg Bay the day after the action, he of course could not give
the loss aboard the British gun-boats; so James at once assumed that they suffered none. As
well as could be found out they had between 50 and 100 killed and wounded. The total British
loss was between 300 and 400, as nearly as can be ascertained. For this action, as already
shown, James is of no use whatever. Compare his statements, for example, with those of Midshipman
Lee, in the "Naval Chronicle." The comparative loss, as a means of testing the competitive
prowess of the combatants, is not of much consequence in this case, as the weaker party in
point of force conquered.]

Captain Macdonough at once returned the British officers their swords. Captain Pring writes:
"I have much satisfaction in making you acquainted with the humane treatment the wounded have
received from Commodore Macdonough; they were immediately removed to his own hospital on Crab
Island, and furnished with every requisite. His generous and polite attention to myself, the
officers, and men, will ever hereafter be gratefully remembered." The effects of the victory
were immediate and of the highest importance. Sir George Prevost and his army at once fled
in great haste and confusion back to Canada, leaving our northern frontier clear for the remainder
of the war; while the victory had a very great effect on the negotiations for peace.

In this battle the crews on both sides behaved with equal bravery, and left nothing to be desired
in this respect; but from their rawness they of course showed far less skill than the crews
of most of the American and some of the British ocean cruisers, such as the Constitution, United
States, or Shannon, the Hornet, Wasp, or Reindeer, Lieut. Cassin handled the Ticonderoga, and
Captain Pring the Linnet, with the utmost gallantry and skill, and, after Macdonough, they
divide the honors of the day.

                        BRITISH LOSS.

  Name.         Tons.  Guns.          Remarks.
Brig,            100     10  Burnt by Lieut. Gregory.
Magnet,        187     12    "   by her crew.
Black Snake,    30      1          Captured.
Gun-boat,         50      2              "
   "              50      3              "
Confiance,   1,200     37              "
Linnet,        350     16              "
Chubb,         112     11              "
Finch,         110     11              "

  9 vessels    2,189    103

            AMERICAN LOSS.

    Name.     Tons.  Guns.  Remarks.
Growler,       81      7  Captured.
Boat,            50      2      "
Tigress,       96      1      "
Scorpion,      86      2      "
Ohio,          94      1      "
Somers,        98      2      "

The treaty of peace between the United States and Great Britain was signed at Ghent, Dec. 24,
1814, and ratified at Washington, Feb. 18, 1815. But during these first two months of 1815,
and until the news reached the cruisers on the ocean, the warfare went on with much the same
characteristics as before. The blockading squadrons continued standing on and off before the
ports containing war-ships with the same unwearying vigilance; but the ice and cold prevented
any attempts at harrying the coast except from the few frigates scattered along the shores
of the Carolinas and Georgia. There was no longer any formidable British fleet in the Chesapeake
or Delaware, while at New Orleans the only available naval force of the Americans consisted
of a few small row-boats, with which they harassed the rear of the retreating British. The
Constitution, Capt. Stewart, was already at sea, having put out from Boston on the 17th of
December, while the blockading squadron (composed of the same three frigates she subsequently
encountered) was temporarily absent.

The Hornet, Capt. Biddle, had left the port of New London, running in heavy weather through
the blockading squadron, and had gone into New York, where the President, Commodore Decatur,
and Peacock, Capt. Warrington, with the Tom Bowline brig were already assembled, intending
to start on a cruise for the East Indies. The blockading squadron off the port consisted of
the 56-gun razee Majestic, Capt. Hayes, 24-pounder frigate Endymion, Capt. Hope, 18-pounder
frigate Pomone, Capt. Lumly, and 18-pounder frigate Tenedos, Capt. Parker. [Footnote: Letter
of Rear-Admiral Hotham, Jan 23, 1815.] On the 14th of January a severe snow-storm came on and
blew the squadron off the coast. Next day it moderated, and the ships stood off to the northwest
to get into the track which they supposed the Americans would take if they attempted to put
out in the storm. Singularly enough, at the instant of arriving at the intended point, an hour
before daylight on the 15th, Sandy Hook bearing W.N.W. 15 leagues, a ship was made out, on
the Majestic's weather-bow, standing S.E. [Footnote: Letter of Capt. Hayes, Jan. 17, 1815.]
This ship was the unlucky President. On the evening of the 14th she had left her consorts at
anchor, and put out to sea in the gale. But by a mistake of the pilots who were to place boats
to beacon the passage the frigate struck on the bar, where she beat heavily for an hour and
a half, [Footnote: Letter of Commodore Decatur, Jan. 18, 1815.] springing her masts and becoming
very much hogged and twisted. [Footnote: Report of Court-martial, Alex. Murray presiding. April
20, 1815.] Owing to the severity of her injuries the President would have put back to port,
but was prevented by the westerly gale. [Footnote: Decatur's letter, Jan. 18th.] Accordingly
Decatur steered at first along Long Island, then shaped his course to the S.E., and in the
dark ran into the British squadron, which, but for his unfortunate accident, he would thus
have escaped. At daylight, the President, which had hauled up and passed to the northward of
her opponents, [Footnote: Decatur's letter. Jan. 18th.] found herself with the Majestic and
Endymion astern, the Pomona on the port and the Tenedos on the starboard quarter. [Footnote:
James, vi, 529.] The chase now became very interesting. [Footnote: Letter of Capt. Hayes.]
During the early part of the day, while the wind was still strong, the Majestic led the Endymion
and fired occasionally at the President, but without effect. [Footnote: Letter of Commodore
Decatur.] The Pomona gained faster than the others, but by Capt. Hayes' orders was signalled
to go in chase of the Tenedos, whose character the captain could not make out [Footnote: James,
vi, 529.]; and this delayed her several hours in the chase. [Footnote: Log of Pomona, published
at Bermuda, Jan. 29th, and quoted in full in the "Naval Chronicle," xxxiii. 370.] In the afternoon,
the wind coming out light and baffling, the Endymion left the Majestic behind, [Footnote: Letter
of Captain Hayes.] and, owing to the President's disabled state and the amount of water she
made in consequence of the injuries received while on the bar, gained rapidly on her, [Footnote:
Letter of Decatur.] although she lightened ship and did everything else that was possible to
improve her sailing. [Footnote: Letter of Decatur.] But a shift of wind helped the Endymion,
[Footnote: Cooper, ii, 466.] and the latter was able at about 2.30, to begin skirmishing with
her bow-chasers, answered by the stern-chasers of the President. [Footnote: Log of Pomona.]
At 5.30 the Endymion began close action, [Footnote: Letter of Capt. Hayes.] within half point-blank
shot on the President's starboard quarter, [Footnote: James, vi, 530.] where not a gun of the
latter could bear. [Footnote: Letter of Decatur.] The President continued in the same course,
steering east by north, the wind being northwest, expecting the Endymion soon to come up abeam;
but the latter warily kept her position by yawing, so as not to close. [Footnote: Letter of
Decatur.] So things continued for half an hour during which the President suffered more than
during all the remainder of the combat. [Footnote: Cooper, 470.] At 6.00 the President kept
off, heading to the south, and the two adversaries ran abreast, the Americans using the starboard
and the British the port batteries. [Footnote: Log of Pomone.] Decatur tried to close with
his antagonist, but whenever he hauled nearer to the latter she hauled off [Footnote: Report
of Court-martial.] and being the swiftest ship could of course evade him; so he was reduced
to the necessity of trying to throw her out of the combat [Footnote: Letter of Commodore Decatur.]
by dismantling her. He was completely successful in this, and after two hours' fighting the
Endymion's sails were all cut from her yards [Footnote: Letter of Capt. Hayes.] and she dropped
astern, the last shot being fired from the President. [Footnote: Log of Pomone.] The Endymion
was now completely silent, [Footnote: Log of Pomone.] and Commodore Decatur did not board her
merely because her consorts were too close astern [Footnote: Report of Court-martial.]; accordingly
the President hauled up again to try her chances at running, having even her royal studding-sails
set, [Footnote: James, vi, 538.] and exposed her stern to the broadside of the Endymion, [Footnote:
Letter of Commodore Decatur.] but the latter did not fire a single gun. [Footnote: Log of the
Pomone.] Three hours afterward, at 11, [Footnote: Letter of Capt. Hayes.] the Pomone caught
up with the President, and luffing to port gave her the starboard broadside [Footnote: Log
of the Pomone.]; the Tenedos being two cables' length's distance astern, taking up a raking
position. [Footnote: Decatur's letter.] The Pomone poured in another broadside, within musket
shot, [Footnote: Log of Pomone.] when the President surrendered and was taken possession of
by Capt. Parker of the Tenedos. [Footnote: James, vi, 531.] A considerable number of the President's
people were killed by these two last broadsides. [Footnote: Letter of Commodore Decatur, March
6, 1815; deposition of Chaplain Henry Robinson before Admiralty Court at St. Georges, Bermuda,
Jan. 1815.] The Endymion was at this time out of sight astern. [Footnote: Letter of Decatur,
Jan. 18th.] She did not come up, according to one account, for an hour and three quarters,
[Footnote: Log of Pomone.] and according to another, for three hours [Footnote: Letter of Decatur,
Mar. 6th.]; and as she was a faster ship than the President, this means that she was at least
two hours motionless repairing damages. Commodore Decatur delivered his sword to Capt. Hayes
of the Majestic, who returned it, stating in his letter that both sides had fought with great
gallantry. [Footnote: Letter of Capt. Hayes.] The President having been taken by an entire
squadron, [Footnote: Admiral Hotham's letter, Jan. 23rd.] the prize-money was divided equally
among the ships. [Footnote: Bermuda "Royal Gazette," March 8, 1815.] The President's crew all
told consisted of 450 men, [Footnote: Depositions of Lieut. Gallagher and the other officers.]
none of whom were British. [Footnote: Deposition of Commodore Decatur.] She had thus a hundred
more men than her antagonist and threw about 100 pounds more shot at a broadside; but these
advantages were more than counterbalanced by the injuries received on the bar, and by the fact
that her powder was so bad that while some of the British shot went through both her sides,
such a thing did not once happen to the Endymion, [Footnote: Bermuda "Royal Gazette," Jan.
6, 1818.] when fairly hulled. The President lost 24 killed and 55 wounded [Footnote: Decatur's
letter.]; the Endymion, 11 killed and 14 wounded. [Footnote: Letter of Capt. Hope, Jan. 15,
1815.] Two days afterward, on their way to the Bermudas, a violent easterly gale came on, during
which both ships were dismasted, and the Endymion in addition had to throw over all her spar-deck
guns.[Footnote: James, vi, 534.]

As can been seen, almost every sentence of this account is taken (very nearly word for word)
from the various official reports, relying especially on the log of the British frigate Pomone.
I have been thus careful to have every point of the narrative established by unimpeachable
reference: first, because there have been quite a number of British historians who have treated
the conflict as if it were a victory and not a defeat for the Endymion: and in the second place,
because I regret to say that I do not think that the facts bear out the assertions, on the
part of most American authors, that Commodore Decatur "covered himself with glory" and showed
the "utmost heroism." As regards the first point, Captain Hope himself, in his singularly short
official letter, does little beyond detail his own loss, and makes no claim to having vanquished
his opponent. Almost all the talk about its being a "victory" comes from James; and in recounting
this, as well as all the other battles, nearly every subsequent British historian simply gives
James' statements over again, occasionally amplifying, but more often altering or omitting,
the vituperation. The point at issue is simply this: could a frigate which, according to James
himself, went out of action with every sail set, take another frigate which for two hours,
according to the log of the Pomone, lay motionless and unmanageable on the waters, without
a sail? To prove that it could not, of course needs some not over-scrupulous manipulation of
the facts. The intention with which James sets about his work can be gathered from the triumphant
conclusion he comes to, that Decatur's name has been "sunk quite as low as that of Bainbridge
or Porter," which, comparing small things to great, is somewhat like saying that Napoleon's
defeat by Wellington and Blucher "sunk" him to the level of Hannibal. For the account of the
American crew and loss, James relies on the statements made in the Bermuda papers, of whose
subsequent forced retraction he takes no notice, and of course largely overestimates both.
On the same authority he states that the President's fire was "silenced," Commodore Decatur
stating the exact reverse. The point is fortunately settled by the log of the Pomone, which
distinctly says that the last shot was fired by the President. His last resort is to state
that the loss of the President was fourfold (in reality threefold) that of the Endymion. Now
we have seen that the President lost "a considerable number" of men from the fire of the Pomone.
Estimating these at only nineteen, we have a loss of sixty caused by the Endymion, and as most
of this was caused during the first half hour, when the President was not firing, it follows
that while the two vessels were both fighting, broadside and broadside, the loss inflicted
was about equal; or, the President, aiming at her adversary's rigging, succeeded in completely
disabling her, and incidentally killed 25 men, while the Endymion did not hurt the President's
rigging at all, and, aiming at her hull, where, of course, the slaughter ought to have been
far greater than when the fire was directed aloft, only killed about the same number of men.
Had there been no other vessels in chase, Commodore Decatur, his adversary having been thus
rendered perfectly helpless, could have simply taken any position he chose and compelled the
latter to strike, without suffering any material additional loss himself. As in such a case
he would neither have endured the unanswered fire of the Endymion on his quarter for the first
half hour, nor the subsequent broadsides of the Pornone, the President's loss would probably
have been no greater than that of the Constitution in taking the Java. It is difficult to see
how any outsider with an ounce of common-sense and fairmindedness can help awarding the palm
to Decatur, as regards the action with the Endymion. But I regret to say that I must agree
with James that he acted rather tamely, certainly not heroically, in striking to the Pomone.
There was, of course, not much chance of success in doing battle with two fresh frigates; but
then they only mounted eighteen-pounders, and, judging from the slight results of the cannonading
from the Endymion and the two first (usually the most fatal) broadsides of the Pomone, it would
have been rather a long time before they would have caused much damage. Meanwhile the President
was pretty nearly as well off as ever as far as fighting and sailing went. A lucky shot might
have disabled one of her opponents, and then the other would, in all probability, have undergone
the same fate as the Endymion. At least it was well worth trying, and though Decatur could
not be said to be disgraced, yet it is excusable to wish that Porter or Perry had been in his
place. It is not very pleasant to criticise the actions of an American whose name is better
known than that of almost any other single-ship captain of his time; but if a man is as much
to be praised for doing fairly, or even badly, as for doing excellently, then there is no use
in bestowing praise at all.

This is perhaps as good a place as any other to notice one or two of James' most common misstatements;
they really would not need refutation were it not that they have been reechoed, as usual, by
almost every British historian of the war for the last 60 years. In the first place, James
puts the number of the President's men at 475; she had 450. An exactly parallel reduction must
often be made when he speaks of the force of an American ship. Then he says there were many
British among them, which is denied under oath by the American officers; this holds good also
for the other American frigates. He says there were but 4 boys; there were nearly 30; and on
p. 120 he says the youngest was 14, whereas we incidentally learn from the "Life of Decatur"
that several were under 12. A favorite accusation is that the American midshipmen were chiefly
masters and mates of merchant-men; but this was hardly ever the case. Many of the midshipmen
of the war afterward became celebrated commanders, and most of these (a notable instance being
Farragut, the greatest admiral since Nelson) were entirely too young in 1812 to have had vessels
under them, and, moreover, came largely from the so-called "best families."

Again, in the first two frigate actions of 1812, the proportion of killed to wounded happened
to be unusually large on board the American frigates; accordingly James states (p. 146) that
the returns of the wounded had been garbled, under-estimated, and made "subservient to the
views of the commanders and their government." To support his position that Capt. Hull, who
reported 7 killed and 7 wounded, had not given the list of the latter in full, he says that
"an equal number of killed and wounded, as given in the American account, hardly ever occurs,
except in cases of explosion"; and yet, on p. 519, he gives the loss of the British Hermes
as 25 killed and 24 wounded, disregarding the incongruity involved. On p. 169, in noticing
the loss of the United States, 5 killed and 7 wounded, he says that "the slightly wounded,
as in all other American cases, are omitted." This is untrue, and the proportion on the United
States, 5 to 7, is just about the same as that given by James himself on the Endymion, 11 to
14, and Nautilus, 6 to 8. In supporting his theory, James brings up all the instances where
the American wounded bore a larger proportion to their dead than on board the British ships,
but passes over the actions with the Reindeer, Epervier, Penguin, Endymion, and Boxer, where
the reverse was the case. One of James' most common methods of attempting to throw discredit
on the much vilified "Yankees" is by quoting newspaper accounts of their wounded. Thus he says
(p. 562) of the Hornet, that several of her men told some of the Penguin's sailors that she
lost 10 men killed, 16 wounded, etc. Utterly false rumors of this kind were as often indulged
in by the Americans as the British. After the capture of the President articles occasionally
appeared in the papers to the effect that some American sailor had counted "23 dead" on board
the Endymion, that "more than 50" of her men were wounded, etc. Such statements were as commonly
made and with as little foundation by one side as by the other, and it is absurd for a historian
to take any notice of them. James does no worse than many of our own writers of the same date;
but while their writings have passed into oblivion, his work is still often accepted as a standard.
This must be my apology for devoting so much time to it. The severest criticism to which it
can possibly be subjected is to compare it with the truth. Whenever dealing with purely American
affairs, James' history is as utterly untrustworthy as its contemporary, "Niles' Register,"
is in matters purely British, while both are invaluable in dealing with things relating strictly
to their own nation; they supplement each other.

On Jan. 8th General Packenham was defeated and killed by General Jackson at New Orleans, the
Louisiana and the seamen of the Carolina having their full share in the glory of the day, and
Captain Henly being among the very few American wounded. On the same day Sailing-master Johnson,
with 28 men in two boats, cut out the British-armed transport brig Cyprus, containing provisions
and munitions of war, and manned by ten men. [Footnote: Letter of Sailing-master Johnson, Jan.
9, 1815.] On the 18th the British abandoned the enterprise and retreated to their ships; and
Mr. Thomas Shields, a purser, formerly a sea-officer, set off to harass them while embarking.
At sunset on the 20th he left with five boats and a gig, manned in all with 53 men, and having
under him Sailing-master Daily and Master's Mate Boyd. [Footnote: Letter of Thomas Shields
to Com. Patterson, Jan. 25, 1815.] At ten o'clock P.M. a large barge, containing 14 seamen
and 40 officers and men of the 14th Light Dragoons, was surprised and carried by boarding after
a slight struggle. The prisoners outnumbering their captors, the latter returned to shore,
left them in a place of safety, and again started at 2 A.M. on the morning of the 22d. Numerous
transports and barges of the enemy could be seen, observing very little order and apparently
taking no precautions against attack, which they probably did not apprehend. One of the American
boats captured a transport and five men; another, containing Mr. Shields himself and eight
men, carried by boarding, after a short resistance, a schooner carrying ten men. The flotilla
then re-united and captured in succession, with no resistance, five barges containing 70 men.
By this time the alarm had spread and they were attacked by six boats, but these were repelled
with some loss. Seven of the prisoners (who were now half as many again as their captors) succeeded
in escaping in the smallest prize. Mr. Shields returned with the others, 78 in number. During
the entire expedition he had lost but three men, wounded; he had taken 132 prisoners, and destroyed
eight craft whose aggregate tonnage about equalled that of the five gun-vessels taken on Lake
Borgne.

On Jan. 30, 1815, information was received by Captain Dent, commanding at North Edisto, Ga.,
that a party of British officers and men, in four boats belonging to H.M.S. Hebrus, Capt. Palmer,
were watering at one of the adjacent islands. [Footnote: Letter of Lawrence Kearney of Jan.
30, 1815 (see in the Archives at Washington, "Captains' Letters," vol. 42, No. 100).] Lieut.
Lawrence Kearney, with three barges containing about 75 men, at once proceeded outside to cut
them off, when the militia drove them away. The frigate was at anchor out of gunshot, but as
soon as she perceived the barges began firing guns as signals. The British on shore left in
such a hurry that they deserted their launch, which, containing a 12-pound boat carronade and
six swivels, was taken by the Americans. The other boats--two cutters, and a large tender mounting
one long nine and carrying 30 men--made for the frigate; but Lieut. Kearney laid the tender
aboard and captured her after a sharp brush. The cutters were only saved by the fire of the
Hebrus, which was very well directed--one of her shot taking off the head of a man close by
Lieut. Kearney. The frigate got under way and intercepted Kearney's return, but the Lieutenant
then made for South Edisto, whither he carried his prize in triumph. This was one of the most
daring exploits of the war, and was achieved at very small cost. On Feb. 14th a similar feat
was performed. Lieutenant Kearney had manned the captured launch with 25 men and the 12-pound
carronade. News was received of another harrying expedition undertaken by the British, and
Captain Dent, with seven boats, put out to attack them, but was unable to cross the reef. Meanwhile
Kearney's barge had gotten outside, and attacked the schooner Brant, a tender to H. M. S. Severn,
mounting an 18-pounder, and with a crew of two midshipmen, and twenty-one marines and seamen.
A running fight began, the Brant evidently fearing that the other boats might get across the
reef and join in the attack; suddenly she ran aground on a sand-bank, which accident totally
demoralized her crew. Eight of them escaped in her boat, to the frigate; the remaining fifteen,
after firing a few shot, surrendered and were taken possession of. [Footnote: Letter of Captain
Dent, Feb. 16th (in "Captains' Letters," vol. 42, No. 130). Most American authors, headed by
Cooper, give this exploit a more vivid coloring by increasing the crew of the Brant to forty
men, omitting to mention that she was hard and fast aground, and making no allusion to the
presence of the five other American boats which undoubtedly caused the Brant's flight in the
first place.]

I have had occasion from time to time to speak of cutting-out expeditions, successful and otherwise,
undertaken by British boats against American privateers; and twice a small British national
cutter was captured by an overwhelmingly superior American opponent of this class. We now,
for the only time, come across an engagement between a privateer and a regular cruiser of approximately
equal force. These privateers came from many different ports and varied greatly in size. Baltimore
produced the largest number; but New York, Philadelphia, Boston, and Salem, were not far behind;
and Charleston, Bristol, and Plymouth, supplied some that were very famous. Many were merely
small pilot-boats with a crew of 20 to 40 men, intended only to harry the West Indian trade.
Others were large, powerful craft, unequalled for speed by any vessels of their size, which
penetrated to the remotest corners of the ocean, from Man to the Spice Islands. When a privateer
started she was overloaded with men, to enable her to man her prizes; a successful cruise would
reduce her crew to a fifth of its original size. The favorite rig was that of a schooner, but
there were many brigs and brigantines. Each was generally armed with a long 24 or 32 on a pivot,
and a number of light guns in broadside, either long 9's or short 18's or 12's. Some had no
pivot gun, others had nothing else. The largest of them carried 17 guns (a pivotal 32 and 16
long 12's in broadside) with a crew of 150. Such a vessel ought to have been a match, at her
own distance, for a British brig-sloop, but we never hear of any such engagements, and there
were several instances where privateers gave up, without firing a shot, to a force superior,
it is true, but not enough so to justify the absolute tameness of the surrender. [Footnote:
As when the Epervter, some little time before her own capture, took without resistance the
Alfred, of Salem, mounting 16 long nines and having 108 men aboard.] One explanation of this
was that they were cruising as private ventures, and their object was purely to capture merchant-men
with as little risk as possible to themselves. Another reason was that they formed a kind of
sea-militia, and, like their compeers on land, some could fight as well as any regulars, while
most would not fight at all, especially if there was need of concerted action between two or
three. The American papers of the day are full of "glorious victories" gained by privateers
over packets and Indiamen; the British papers are almost as full of instances where the packets
and Indiamen "heroically repulsed" the privateers. As neither side ever chronicles a defeat,
and as the narration is apt to be decidedly figurative in character, there is very little hope
of getting at the truth of such meetings; so I have confined myself to the mention of those
cases where privateers, of either side, came into armed collision with regular cruisers. We
are then sure to find some authentic account.

The privateer brig Chasseur, of Baltimore, Captain Thomas Boyle, carried 16 long 12's, and
had, when she left port, 115 men aboard. She made 18 prizes on her last voyage, and her crew
was thus reduced to less than 80 men; she was then chased by the Barossa frigate, and threw
overboard 10 of her long 12's. Afterward eight 9-pound carronades were taken from a prize,
to partially supply the places of the lost guns; but as she had no shot of the calibre of these
carronades each of the latter was loaded with one 4-pound and one 6-pound ball, giving her
a broadside of 76 lbs. On the 26th of February, two leagues from Havana, the Chasseur fell
in with the British schooner St. Lawrence, Lieut. H. C. Gordon, mounting twelve 12-pound carronades,
and one long 9; her broadside was thus 81 lbs., and she had between 60 and 80 men aboard. [Footnote:
Letter of Captain Thomas Boyle, of March 2, 1815 (see Niles and Coggeshall); he says the schooner
had two more carronades; I have taken the number given by James (p. 539). Captain Boyle says
the St. Lawrence had onboard 89 men and several more, including a number of soldiers and marines
and gentlemen of the navy, as passengers; James says her crew amounted to 51 "exclusive of
some passengers," which I suppose must mean at least nine men. So the forces were pretty equal;
the Chasseur may have had 20 men more or 10 men less than her antagonist, and she threw from
5 to 21 lbs. less weight of shot.] The Chasseur mistook the St. Lawrence for a merchant-man
and closed with her. The mistake was discovered too late to escape, even had such been Captain
Boyle's intention, and a brief but bloody action ensued. At 1.26 P.M., the St. Lawrence fired
the first broadside, within pistol shot, to which the Chasseur replied with her great guns
and musketry. The brig then tried to close, so as to board; but having too much way on, shot
ahead under the lee of the schooner, which put her helm up to wear under the Chasseur's stern.
Boyle, however, followed his antagonist's manoeuvre, and the two vessels ran along side by
side, the St. Lawrence drawing ahead, while the firing was very heavy. Then Captain Boyle put
his helm a starboard and ran his foe aboard, when in the act of boarding, her colors were struck
at 1.41 P.M., 15 minutes after the first shot. Of the Chasseur's crew 5 were killed and 8 wounded,
including Captain Boyle slightly. Of the St. Lawrence's crew 6 were killed and 17 (according
to James 18) wounded. This was a very creditable action. The St. Lawrence had herself been
an American privateer, called the Atlas, and was of 241 tons, or just 36 less than the Chasseur.
The latter could thus fairly claim that her victory was gained over a regular cruiser of about
her own force. Captain Southcombe of the Lottery, Captain Reid of the General Armstrong, Captain
Ordronaux of the Neufchatel, and Captain Boyle of the Chasseur, deserve as much credit as any
regularly commissioned sea-officers. But it is a mistake to consider these cases as representing
the average; an ordinary privateer was, naturally enough, no match for a British regular cruiser
of equal force. The privateers were of incalculable benefit to us, and inflicted enormous damage
on the foe; but in fighting they suffered under the same disadvantages as other irregular forces;
they were utterly unreliable. A really brilliant victory would be followed by a most extraordinary
defeat.

After the Constitution had escaped from Boston, as I have described, she ran to the Bermudas,
cruised in their vicinity a short while, thence to Madeira, to the Bay of Biscay, and finally
off Portugal, cruising for some time in sight of the Rock of Lisbon. Captain Stewart then ran
off southwest, and on Feb. 20th, Madeira bearing W. S. W. 60 leagues, [Footnote: Letter of
Captain Stewart to the Secretary of the Navy, May 20, 1815.] the day being cloudy, with a light
easterly breeze, [Footnote: Log of Constitution, Feb. 20, 1815.] at 1 P.M. a sail was made
two points on the port bow; and at 2 P.M., Captain Stewart, hauling up in chase, discovered
another sail. The first of these was the frigate-built ship corvette Cyane, Captain Gordon
Thomas Falcon, and the second was the ship sloop Levant, Captain the Honorable George Douglass.
[Footnote: "Naval Chronicle," xxxiii, 466.] Both were standing close hauled on the starboard
tack, the sloop about 10 miles to leeward of the corvette. At 4 P.M. the latter began making
signals to her consort that the strange sail was an enemy, and then made all sail before the
wind to join the sloop. The Constitution bore up in chase, setting her top-mast, top-gallant,
and royal studding-sails. In half an hour she carried away her main royal mast, but immediately
got another prepared, and at 5 o'clock began firing at the corvette with the two port-bow guns;
as the shot fell short the firing soon ceased. At 5.30 the Cyane got within hail of the Levant,
and the latter's gallant commander expressed to Captain Gordon his intention of engaging the
American frigate. The two ships accordingly hauled up their courses and stood on the starboard
tack; but immediately afterward their respective captains concluded to try to delay the action
till dark, so as to get the advantage of manoeuvring. [Footnote: "Naval Chronicle," xxxiii,
466.] Accordingly they again set all sail and hauled close to the wind to endeavor to weather
their opponent; but finding the latter coming down too fast for them to succeed they again
stripped to fighting canvas and formed on the starboard tack in head and stern line, the Levant
about a cable's length in front of her consort. The American now had them completely under
her guns and showed her ensign, to which challenge the British ships replied by setting their
colors. At 6.10 the Constitution ranged up to windward of the Cyane and Levant, the former
on her port quarter, the latter on her port bow, both being distant about 250 yards from her
[Footnote: Testimony sworn to by Lieutenant W. B. Shubrick and Lieutenant of Marines Archibald
Henderson before Thomas Welsh. Jr., Justice of the Peace, Suffolk St., Boston, July 20, 1815.
The depositions were taken in consequence of a report started by some of the British journals
that the action began at a distance of 1/4 of a mile. All the American depositions were that
all three ships began firing at once, when equidistant from each other about 250 yards, the
marines being engaged almost the whole time.]--so close that the American marines were constantly
engaged almost from the beginning of the action. The fight began at once, and continued with
great spirit for a quarter of an hour, the vessels all firing broadsides. It was now moonlight,
and an immense column of smoke formed under the lee of the Constitution, shrouding from sight
her foes; and, as the fire of the latter had almost ceased, Captain Stewart also ordered his
men to stop, so as to find out the positions of the ships. In about three minutes the smoke
cleared, disclosing to the Americans the Levant dead to leeward on the port beam, and the Cyane
luffing up for their port quarter. Giving a broadside to the sloop, Stewart braced aback his
main and mizzen top-sails, with top-gallant sails set, shook all forward, and backed rapidly
astern, under cover of the smoke, abreast the corvette, forcing the latter to fill again to
avoid being raked. The firing was spirited for a few minutes, when the Cyane's almost died
away. The Levant bore up to wear round and assist her consort, but the Constitution filled
her top-sails, and, shooting ahead, gave her two stern rakes, when she at once made all sail
to get out of the combat. The Cyane was now discovered wearing, when the Constitution herself
at once wore and gave her in turn a stern rake, the former luffing to and firing her port broadside
into the starboard bow of the frigate. Then, as the latter ranged up on her port quarter, she
struck, at 6.50, just forty minutes after the beginning of the action. She was at once taken
possession of, and Lieut. Hoffman, second of the Constitution, was put in command. Having manned
the prize, Captain Stewart, at 8 o'clock, filled away after her consort. The latter, however,
had only gone out of the combat to refit. Captain Douglass had no idea of retreat, and no sooner
had he rove new braces than he hauled up to the wind, and came very gallantly back to find
out his friend's condition. At 8.50 he met the Constitution, and, failing to weather her, the
frigate and sloop passed each other on opposite tacks, exchanging broadsides. Finding her antagonist
too heavy, the Levant then crowded all sail to escape, but was soon overtaken by the Constitution,
and at about 9.30 the latter opened with her starboard bow-chasers, and soon afterward the
British captain hauled down his colors. Mr. Ballard, first of the Constitution, was afterward
put in command of the prize. By one o'clock the ships were all in order again.

The Constitution had been hulled eleven times, more often than in either of her previous actions,
but her loss was mainly due to the grape and musketry of the foe in the beginning of the fight.
[Footnote: Deposition of her officers as before cited.] The British certainly fired better
than usual, especially considering the fact that there was much manoeuvering, and that it was
a night action. The Americans lost 3 men killed, 3 mortally, and 9 severely and slightly, wounded.
The corvette, out of her crew of 180, had 12 men killed and 26 wounded, several mortally; the
sloop, out of 140, had 7 killed and 16 wounded. The Constitution had started on her cruise
very full-handed, with over 470 men, but several being absent on a prize, she went into battle
with about 450. [Footnote: 410 officers and seamen, and 41 marines, by her muster-roll of Feb.
19th. (The muster-rolls are preserved in the Treasury Department at Washington.)] The prizes
had suffered a good deal in their hulls and rigging, and had received some severe wounds in
their masts and principal spars. The Cyane carried on her main-deck twenty-two 32-pound carronades,
and on her spar-deck two long 12's, and ten 18-pounder carronades. The Levant carried, all
on one deck, eighteen 32-pound carronades and two long 9's, together with a shifting 12-pounder.
Thus, their broadside weight of metal was 763 pounds, with a total of 320 men, of whom 61 fell,
against the Constitution's 704 pounds and 450 men, of whom 15 were lost; or, nominally, the
relative force was 100 to 91, and the relative loss 100 to 24. But the British guns were almost
exclusively carronades which, as already pointed out in the case of the Essex and in the battle
off Plattsburg, are no match for long guns. Moreover, the scantling of the smaller ships was,
of course, by no means as stout as that of the frigate, so that the disparity of force was
much greater than the figures would indicate, although not enough to account for the difference
in loss. Both the British ships were ably handled, their fire was well directed, and the Levant
in especial was very gallantly fought.

As regards the Constitution, "her manoeuvring was as brilliant as any recorded in naval annals,"
and it would have been simply impossible to surpass the consummate skill with which she was
handled in the smoke, always keeping her antagonists to leeward, and, while raking both of
them, not being once raked herself. The firing was excellent, considering the short time the
ships were actually engaged, and the fact that it was at night. Altogether the fight reflected
the greatest credit on her, and also on her adversaries. [Footnote: There is no British official
account of the action. James states that the entire British force was only 302 men of whom
12 were killed and 29 wounded. This is probably not based on any authority. Captain Stewart
received on board 301 prisoners, of whom 42 were wounded, several mortally. Curiously enough
James also underestimates the American loss, making it only 12. He also says that many attempts
were made by the Americans to induce the captured British to desert, while the Constitution's
officers deny this under oath, before Justice Welsh, as already quoted, and state that, on
the contrary, many of the prisoners offered to enlist on the frigate, but were all refused
permission--as "the loss of the Chesapeake had taught us the danger of having renegades aboard."
This denial, by the way, holds good for all the similar statements made by James as regards
the Guerrierre, Macedonian, etc. He also states that a British court-martial found various
counts against the Americans for harsh treatment, but all of these were specifically denied
by the American officers, under oath, as already quoted.

I have relied chiefly on Captain Stewart's narratives; but partly (as to time, etc.) on the
British account in the "Naval Chronicle."]

The merits of this action can perhaps be better appreciated by comparing it with a similar
one that took place a few years before between a British sloop and corvette on the one side,
and a French frigate on the other, and which is given in full by both James and Troude. Although
these authors differ somewhat in the account of it, both agree that the Frenchman, the Nereide,
of 44 guns, on Feb. 14, 1810, fought a long and indecisive battle with the Rainbow of 26 and
Avon of 18 guns, the British sloops being fought separately, in succession. The relative force
was almost exactly as in the Constitution's fight. Each side claimed that the other fled. But
this much is sure: the Constitution engaging the Cyane and Levant together, captured both;
while the Nereide, engaging the Rainbow and Avon separately, captured neither.

The three ships now proceeded to the Cape de Verds, and on March 10th anchored in the harbor
of Porto Praya, Island of San Jago. Here a merchant-brig was taken as a cartel, and a hundred
of the prisoners were landed to help fit her for sea. The next day the weather was thick and
foggy, with fresh breezes. [Footnote: Log of Constitution, March 11, 1815.] The first and second
lieutenants, with a good part of the people, were aboard the two prizes. At five minutes past
twelve, while Mr. Shubrick, the senior remaining lieutenant, was on the quarter-deck, the canvas
of a large vessel suddenly loomed up through the haze, her hull being completely hidden by
the fog-bank. Her character could not be made out; but she was sailing close-hauled, and evidently
making for the roads. Mr. Shubrick at once went down and reported the stranger to Captain Stewart,
when that officer coolly remarked that it was probably a British frigate or an Indiaman, and
directed the lieutenant to return on deck, call all hands, and get ready to go out and attack
her. [Footnote: Cooper, ii, 459.] At that moment the canvas of two other ships was discovered
rising out of the fog astern of the vessel first seen. It was now evident that all three were
heavy frigates. [Footnote: Letter of Lieutenant Hoffman, April 10, 1815.] In fact, they were
the Newcastle, 50, Captain Lord George Stewart; Leander, 50, Captain Sir Ralph Collier, K.C.B.,
and Acasta, 40, Captain Robert Kerr, standing into Porto Praya, close-hauled on the starboard
tack, the wind being light northeast by north. [Footnote: Marshall's "Naval Biography," ii,
535.] Captain Stewart at once saw that his opponents were far too heavy for a fair fight, and,
knowing that the neutrality of the port would not be the slightest protection to him, he at
once signalled to the prizes to follow, cut his cable, and, in less than ten minutes from the
time the first frigate was seen, was standing out of the roads, followed by Hoffmann and Ballard.
Certainly a more satisfactory proof of the excellent training of both officers and men could
hardly be given than the rapidity, skill, and perfect order with which every thing was done.
Any indecision on the part of the officers or bungling on the part of the men would have lost
every thing. The prisoners on shore had manned a battery and delivered a furious but ill-directed
fire at their retreating conquerors. The frigate, sloop, and corvette, stood out of the harbor
in the order indicated, on the port tack, passing close under the east point, and a gunshot
to windward of the British squadron, according to the American, or about a league, according
to the British, accounts. The Americans made out the force of the strangers correctly, and
their own force was equally clearly discerned by the Acasta; but both the Newcastle and Leander
mistook the Cyane and Levant for frigates, a mistake similar to that once made by Commodore
Rodgers. The Constitution now crossed her top-gallant yards and set the foresail, main-sail,
spanker, flying jib, and top-gallant sails; and the British ships, tacking, made all sail in
pursuit. The Newcastle was on the Constitution's lee quarter and directly ahead of the Leander,
while the Acasta was on the weather-quarter of the Newcastle. All six ships were on the port
tack. The Constitution cut adrift the boats towing astern, and her log notes that at 12.50
she found she was sailing about as fast as the ships on her lee quarter, but that the Acasta
was luffing into her wake and dropping astern. The log of the Acasta says, "We had gained on
the sloops, but the frigate had gained on us." At 1.10 the Cyane had fallen so far astern and
to leeward that Captain Stewart signalled to Lieutenant Hoffman to tack, lest he should be
cut off if he did not. Accordingly the lieutenant put about and ran off toward the northwest,
no notice being taken of him by the enemy beyond an ineffectual broadside from the sternmost
frigate. At 2.35 he was out of sight of all the ships and shaped his course for America, which
he reached on April 10th. [Footnote: Letter of Lieutenant Hoffman, April 10, 1815.] At 1.45
the Newcastle opened on the Constitution firing by divisions, but the shot all fell short,
according to the American statements, about 200 yards, while the British accounts (as given
in Marshall's "Naval Biography") make the distance much greater; at any rate the vessels were
so near that from the Constitution the officers of the Newcastle could be seen standing on
the hammock nettings. But, very strangely, both the 50-gun ships apparently still mistook the
Levant, though a low, flush-decked sloop like the Hornet, for the "President, Congress, or
Macedonian," Captain Collier believing that the Constitution had sailed with two other frigates
in company. [Footnote: Marshal, ii, 533. ] By three o'clock the Levant had lagged so as to
be in the same position from which the Cyane had just been rescued; accordingly Captain Stewart
signalled to her to tack, which she did, and immediately afterward all three British ships
tacked in pursuit. Before they did so, it must be remembered the Acasta had weathered on the
Constitution, though left considerably astern, while the Newcastle and Leander had about kept
their positions on her lee or starboard quarter; so that if any ship had been detached after
the Levant it should have been the Leander, which had least chance of overtaking the American
frigate. The latter was by no means as heavily armed as either of the two 50's, and but little
heavier than the Acasta; moreover, she was shorthanded, having manned her two prizes. The Acasta,
at any rate, had made out the force of the Levant, and, even had she been a frigate, it was
certainly carrying prudence to an extreme to make more than one ship tack after her. Had the
Newcastle and Acasta kept on after the Constitution there was a fair chance of overtaking her,
for the Acasta had weathered on her, and the chase could not bear up for fear of being cut
off by the Newcastle. At any rate the pursuit should not have been given up so early. Marshall
says there was a mistake in the signalling. The British captains certainly bungled the affair;
even James says (p. 558): "It is the most blundering piece of business recorded in these six
volumes." As for Stewart and his men, they deserve the highest credit for the cool judgment
and prompt, skilful seamanship they had displayed. The Constitution, having shaken off her
pursuers, sailed to Maranham, where she landed her prisoners. At Porto Rico she learned of
the peace, and forthwith made sail for New York, reaching it about the middle of May.

As soon as he saw Captain Stewart's signal, Lieutenant Ballard had tacked, and at once made
for the anchorage at Porto Prayo, which he reached, though pursued by all his foes, and anchored
within 150 yards of a heavy battery. [Footnote: Letter of Lieutenant Ballard. May 2, 1815.]
The wisdom of Captain Stewart's course in not trusting to the neutrality of the port, now became
evident. The Acasta opened upon the sloop as soon as the latter had anchored, at 4.30. [Footnote:
Newcastle's log, as given by Marshall and James.] The Newcastle, as soon as she arrived, also
opened, and so did the Leander, while the British prisoners on shore fired the guns of the
battery. Having borne this combined cannonade for 15 minutes, [Footnote: Ballard's letter.]
the colors of the Levant were hauled down. The unskilful firing of the British ships certainly
did not redeem the blunders previously made by Sir George Collier, for the three heavy frigates
during 15 minutes' broadside practice in smooth water against a stationary and unresisting
foe, did her but little damage, and did not kill a man. The chief effect of the fire was to
damage the houses of the Portuguese town. [Footnote: James, vi, 551. ]

After the capture of the President, the Peacock, Captain Warrington, the Hornet, Captain Biddle,
and Tom Bowline, brig, still remained in New York harbor. On the 22d of January a strong northwesterly
gale began to blow, and the American vessels, according to their custom, at once prepared to
take advantage of the heavy weather and run by the blockaders. They passed the bar by daylight,
under storm canvas, the British frigates lying to in the southeast being plainly visible. They
were ignorant of the fate of the President, and proceeded toward Tristan d'Acunha, which was
the appointed rendezvous. A few days out the Hornet parted company from the two others; these
last reached Tristan d'Acunha about March 18th, but were driven off again by a gale. The Hornet
reached the island on the 23d, and at half-past ten in the morning, the wind being fresh S.S.W.,
when about to anchor off the north point, a sail was made in the southeast, steering west.
[Footnote: Letter from Captain Biddle to Commodore Decatur, Mar. 25, 1815.] This was the British
brig-sloop Penguin, Captain James Dickenson. She was a new vessel, having left port for the
first time in September, 1814. While at the Cape of Good Hope she had received from Vice-Admiral
Tyler 12 marines from the Medway, 74, increasing her complement to 132; and was then despatched
on special service against a heavy American privateer, the Young Wasp, which had been causing
great havoc among the homeward-bound Indiamen.

When the strange sail was first seen Captain Biddle was just letting go his top-sail sheets;
he at once sheeted them home, and the stranger being almost instantly shut out by the land,
made all sail to the west, and again caught sight of her. Captain Dickenson now, for the first
time, saw the American sloop, and at once bore up for her. The position of the two vessels
was exactly the reverse of the Wasp and Frolic, the Englishman being to windward. The Hornet
hove to, to let her antagonist close; then she filled her maintop-sail and continued to yaw,
wearing occasionally to prevent herself from being raked. At forty minutes past one the Penguin,
being within musket-shot, hauled to the wind on the starboard tack, hoisted a St. George's
ensign and fired a gun. The Hornet luffed up on the same tack, hoisting American colors, and
the action began with heavy broadsides. The vessels ran along thus for 15 minutes, gradually
coming closer together, and Captain Dickenson put his helm aweather, to run his adversary aboard.
At this moment the brave young officer received a mortal wound, and the command devolved on
the first lieutenant, Mr. McDonald, who endeavored very gallantly to carry out his commander's
intention, and at 1.56 the Penguin's bowsprit came in between the Hornet's main- and mizzen-rigging
on the starboard side. The American seamen had been called away, and were at their posts to
repel boarders, but as the British made no attempt to come on, the cutlass men began to clamber
into the rigging to go aboard the brig. Captain Biddle very coolly stopped them, "it being
evident from the beginning that our fire was greatly superior both in quickness and effect."
An English officer now called out something which Biddle understood, whether correctly or not
is disputed, to be the word of surrender; accordingly he directed his marines to cease firing,
and jumped on the taffrail. At that minute two of the marines on the Penguin's forecastle,
not 30 feet distant, fired at him, one of the balls inflicting a rather severe wound in his
neck. A discharge of musketry from the Hornet at once killed both the marines, and at that
moment the ship drew ahead. As the vessels separated the Penguin's foremast went overboard,
the bowsprit breaking short off. The Hornet at once wore, to present a fresh broadside, while
the Penguin's disabled condition prevented her following suit, and having lost a third of her
men killed and wounded (14 of the former and 28 of the latter), her hull being riddled through
and through, her foremast gone, main-mast tottering, and most of the guns on the engaged side
dismounted, she struck her colors at two minutes past two, twenty-two minutes after the first
gun was fired. Of the Hornet's 150 men, 8 were absent in a prize. By actual measurement she
was two feet longer and slightly narrower than her antagonist. Her loss was chiefly caused
by musketry, amounting to 1 marine killed, 1 seaman mortally, Lieutenant Conner very severely,
and Captain Biddle and seven seamen slightly, wounded. Not a round shot struck the hull, nor
was a mast or spar materially injured, but the rigging and sails were a good deal cut, especially
about the fore and main top-gallant masts. The Hornet's crew had been suffering much from sickness,
and 9 of the men were unable to be at quarters, thus reducing the vessels to an exact equality.
Counting in these men, and excluding the 8 absent in a prize, we get as

COMPARATIVE FORCE.
                      No.    Weight
            Tonnage. Guns.   Metal.   Crew.   Loss.
Hornet      480     10      279     142[1]   11
Penguin     477     10      274     132      42

[Footnote 1: This number of men is probably too great; I have not personally examined the Hornet's
muster-roll for that period. Lieutenant Emmons in his "History," gives her 132 men; but perhaps
he did not include the nine sick, which would make his statement about the same as mine. In
response to my inquiries, I received a very kind letter from the Treasury Department (Fourth
Auditor's office), which stated that the muster-roll of the Hornet on this voyage showed "101
officers and crew (marines excepted)." Adding the 20 marines would make but 121 in all. I think
there must be some mistake in this, and so have considered the Hornet's crew as consisting
originally of 150 men, the same as on her cruises in 1812.

The Penguin was in reality slightly larger than the Hornet, judging from the comparisons made
in Biddle's letter (for the original of which see in the Naval Archives, "Captains' Letters,"
vol. 42, No. 112). He says that the Penguin, though two feet shorter on deck than the Hornet,
had a greater length of keel, a slightly greater breadth of beam, stouter sides, and higher
bulwarks, with swivels on the capstan and tops, and that she fought both her "long 12's" on
the same side. I have followed James, however, as regards this; he says her long guns were
6-pounders, and that but one was fought on a side.]

Or, the force being practically equal, the Hornet inflicted fourfold the loss and tenfold the
damage she suffered. Hardly any action of the war reflected greater credit on the United States
marine than this; for the cool, skilful seamanship and excellent gunnery that enabled the Americans
to destroy an antagonist of equal force in such an exceedingly short time. The British displayed
equal bravery, but were certainly very much behind their antagonists in the other qualities
which go to make up a first-rate man-of-warsman. Even James says he "cannot offer the trifling
disparity of force in this action as an excuse for the Penguin's capture. The chief cause is
* * * the immense disparity between the two vessels in * * * the effectiveness of their crews."
[Footnote: After the action but one official account, that of Captain Biddle, was published;
none of the letters of the defeated British commanders were published after 1813. As regards
this action, every British writer has followed James, who begins his account thus: "Had the
vessel in sight to windward been rigged with three masts instead of two, and had she proved
to be a British cruiser, Captain Biddle would have marked her down in his log as a 'frigate,'
and have made off with all the canvas he could possibly spread. Had the ship overtaken the
Hornet and been in reality a trifle superior in force, Captain Biddle, we have no doubt, would
have exhausted his eloquence in lauding the blessings of peace before he tried a struggle for
the honors of war." After this preface (which should be read in connection with the Hornet's
unaccepted challenge to the Bonne Citoyenne, a ship "a trifle superior in force") it can be
considered certain that James will both extenuate and also set down a good deal in malice.
One instance of this has already been given in speaking of the President's capture. Again,
he says, "the Hornet received several round shot in her hull," which she did--a month after
this action, from the Cornwallis, 74; James knew perfectly well that not one of the Penguin's
shot hit the Hornet's hull. The quotations I have given are quite enough to prove that nothing
he says about the action is worth attending to. The funniest part of his account is where he
makes Captain Biddle get drunk, lose his "native cunning," and corroborate his (James') statements.
He does not even hint at the authority for this.]

The Penguin was so cut up by shot that she had to be destroyed. After the stores, etc., had
been taken out of her, she was thoroughly examined (Captain Biddle, from curiosity, taking
her measurements in comparison with those of the Hornet). Her destruction was hastened on account
of a strange sail heaving in sight; but the latter proved to be the Peacock, with the Tom Bowline
in company. The latter was now turned to account by being sent in to Rio de Janeiro as a cartel
with the prisoners. The Peacock and Hornet remained about the island till April 13th, and then,
giving up all hopes of seeing the President, and rightly supposing she had been captured, started
out for the East Indies. On the 27th of the month, in lat. 38 deg.30' S. and long. 33 deg.
E.,[Footnote: Letter of Captain Biddle, June 10th, and extracts from her log.] the Peacock
signalled a stranger in the S.E., and both sloops crowded sail in chase. The next morning they
came down with the wind aft from the northwest, the studding-sails set on both sides. The new
22-gun sloops were not only better war-vessels, but faster ones too, than any other ships of
their rate; and the Peacock by afternoon was two leagues ahead of the Hornet, At 2 P.M. the
former was observed to manifest some hesitation about approaching the stranger, which instead
of avoiding had rather hauled up toward them. All on board the Hornet thought her an Indiaman,
and "the men began to wonder what they would do with the silks," when, a few minutes before
four, the Peacock signalled that it was a line-of-battle ship, which reversed the parts with
a vengeance. Warrington's swift ship was soon out of danger, while Biddle hauled close to the
wind on the port tack, with the Cornwallis, 74, bearing the flag of Admiral Sir George Burleton,
K.C.B., [Footnote: James, vi, 564.] in hot pursuit, two leagues on his lee quarter. The 74
gained rapidly on the Hornet, although she stopped to pick up a marine who had fallen overboard.
Finding he had to deal with a most weatherly craft, as well as a swift sailer, Captain Biddle,
at 9 P.M., began to lighten the Hornet of the mass of stores taken from the Penguin. The Cornwallis
gained still, however, and at 2 A.M. on the 29th was ahead of the Hornet's lee or starboard
beam, when the sloop put about and ran off toward the west. Daylight showed the 74 still astern
and to leeward, but having gained so much as to be within gunshot, and shortly afterward she
opened fire, her shot passing over the Hornet. The latter had recourse anew to the lightening
process. She had already hove overboard the sheet-anchor, several heavy spare spars, and a
large quantity of shot and ballast; the remaining anchors and cables, more shot, six guns,
and the launch now followed suit, and, thus relieved, the Hornet passed temporarily out of
danger; but the breeze shifted gradually round to the east, and the liner came looming up till
at noon she was within a mile, a shorter range than that at which the United States crippled
and cut up the Macedonian; and had the Cornwallis' fire been half as well aimed as that of
the States, it would have been the last of the Hornet. But the 74's guns were very unskilfully
served, and the shot passed for the most part away over the chase, but three getting home.
Captain Biddle and his crew had no hope of ultimate escape, but no one thought of giving up.
All the remaining spare spars and boats, all the guns but one, the shot, and in fact every
thing that could be got at, below or on deck, was thrown overboard. This increased the way
of the Hornet, while the Cornwallis lost ground by hauling off to give broadsides, which were
as ineffectual as the fire from the chase-guns had been. The Hornet now had gained a little,
and managed to hold her own, and shortly afterward the pluck and skill of her crew [Footnote:
It is perhaps worth noting that the accounts incidentally mention the fact that almost the
entire crew consisted of native Americans, of whom quite a number had served as impressed seamen
on board British war-ships. James multiplies these threefold and sets them down as British.]
were rewarded. The shift in the wind had been very much against them, but now it veered back
again so as to bring them to windward; and every minute, as it blew fresher and fresher, their
chances increased. By dark the Cornwallis was well astern, and during the night the wind kept
freshening, blowing in squalls, which just suited the Hornet, and when day broke the liner
was hull down astern. Then, on the morning of the 30th, after nearly 48 hours' chase, she abandoned
the pursuit. The Hornet was now of course no use as a cruiser, and made sail for New York,
which she reached on June 9th. This chase requires almost the same comments as the last chase
of the Constitution. In both cases the American captains and their crews deserve the very highest
praise for plucky, skilful seamanship; but exactly as Stewart's coolness and promptitude might
not have saved the Constitution had it not been for the blunders made by his antagonists, so
the Hornet would have assuredly been taken, in spite of Biddle's stubbornness and resource,
if the Cornwallis had not shown such unskilful gunnery, which was all the more discreditable
since she carried an admiral's flag.

The Peacock was thus the only one left of the squadron originally prepared for the East Indies;
however, she kept on, went round the Cape of Good Hope, and cruised across the Indian Ocean,
capturing 4 great Indiamen, very valuable prizes, manned by 291 men. Then she entered the Straits
of Sunda, and on the 30th of June, off the fort of Anjier fell in with the East India Company's
cruiser Nautilus, Lieut. Boyce, a brig of 180 (American measurement over 200) tons, with a
crew of 80 men, and 14 guns, 4 long 9's and ten 18-pound carronades. [Footnote: "History of
the Indian Navy," by Charles Rathbone Low (late lieutenant of the Indian Navy), London, 1877,
p. 285.] Captain Warrington did not know of the peace; one of the boats of the Nautilus, however,
with her purser, Mr. Bartlett, boarded him. Captain Warrington declares the latter made no
mention of the peace, while Mr. Bartlett swears that he did before he was sent below. As the
Peacock approached, Lieut. Boyce hailed to ask if she knew peace had been declared. Captain
Warrington, according to his letter, regarded this as a ruse to enable the brig to escape under
the guns of the fort, and commanded the lieutenant to haul down his colors, which the latter
refused to do, and very gallantly prepared for a struggle with a foe of more than twice his
strength. According to Captain Warrington, one, or, by the deposition of Mr. Bartlett, [Footnote:
As quoted by Low.] two broadsides were then interchanged, and the brig surrendered, having
lost 7 men, including her first lieutenant, killed and mortally wounded, and 8 severely or
slightly wounded. Two of her guns and the sheet-anchor were disabled, the bends on the starboard
side completely shivered from aft to the forechains, the bulwarks from the chess-tree aft much
torn, and the rigging cut to pieces. [Footnote: Letter of Lieut. Boyce to Company's Marine
Board, as quoted by Low.] The Peacock did not suffer the slightest loss or damage. Regarding
the affair purely as a conflict between vessels of nations at war with each other, the criticism
made by Lord Howard Douglass on the action between the President and Little Belt applies here
perfectly. "If a vessel meet an enemy of even greatly superior force, it is due to the honor
of her flag to try the effect of a few rounds; but unless in this gallant attempt she leave
marks of her skill upon the larger body, while she, the smaller body, is hit at every discharge,
she does but salute her enemy's triumph and discredit her own gunnery." [Footnote: "Naval Gunnery,"
p. 3.] There could not have been a more satisfactory exhibition of skill than that given by
Captain Warrington; but I regret to say that it is difficult to believe he acted with proper
humanity. It seems impossible that Mr. Bartlett did not mention that peace had been signed;
and when the opposing force was so much less than his own it would have been safe at least
to defer the order "haul down your flag" for a short time, while he could have kept the brig
within half pistol-shot, until he could have inquired into the truth of the report. Throughout
this work I have wherever possible avoided all references to the various accusations and recriminations
of some of the captains about "unfairness," "cruelty," etc., as in most cases it is impossible
to get at the truth, the accounts flatly contradicting one another. In this case, however,
there certainly seems some ground for the rather fervent denunciations of Captain Warrington
indulged in by Lieut. Low. But it is well to remember that a very similar affair, with the
parties reversed, had taken place but a few months before on the coast of America. This was
on Feb. 22d, after the boats of the Erebus, 20, and Primrose, 18, under Captains Bartholomew
and Phillot, had been beaten off with a loss of 30 men (including both captains wounded), in
an expedition up St. Mary's River, Ga. The two captains and their vessels then joined Admiral
Cockburn at Cumberland Island, and on the 25th of February were informed officially of the
existence of peace. Three weeks afterward the American gunboat, No. 168, Mr. Hurlburt, sailed
from Tybee Bar, Ga., bearing despatches for the British admiral. [Footnote: Letter from Com.
Campbell to Sec. of Navy, Mar. 29, 1815. including one from Sailing-master John H. Hurlburt
of Mar. 18, 1815, preserved in the Naval Archives, in vol. 43, No. 125, of "Captains' Letters."
See also "Niles' Register," viii, 104, 118, etc.] On the same day in the afternoon she fell
in with the Erebus, Captain Bartholomew. Peace having been declared, and having been known
to exist for over three weeks, no effort was made to avoid the British vessel; but when the
gunboat neared the latter she was suddenly hailed and told to heave to. Mr. Hurlburt answered
that he had dispatches for Admiral Cockburn, to which Captain Bartholomew responded, with many
oaths, that he did not care, he would sink her if she did not send a boat aboard. When Mr.
Hurlburt attempted to answer some muskets were discharged at him, and he was told to strike.
He refused, and the Erebus immediately opened fire from her great guns; the gunboat had gotten
so far round that her pivot-gun would not bear properly, but it was discharged across the bows
of the Erebus, and then Mr. Hurlburt struck his colors. Although he had lain right under the
foe's broadside, he had suffered no loss or damage except a few ropes cut, and some shot-holes
in the sails. Afterward Captain Bartholomew apologized, and let the gunboat proceed.

This attack was quite as wanton and unprovoked as Warrington's, and Bartholomew's foe was relatively
to himself even less powerful; moreover, while the Peacock's crew showed great skill in handling
their guns, the crew of the Erebus most emphatically did not. The intent in both cases was
equally bad, only the British captain lacked the ability to carry his out.

Summary.

The concluding operations of the war call for much the same comments as those of the preceding
years. The balance of praise certainly inclines toward the Americans. Captain John Hayes' squadron
showed great hardihood, perseverance and judgment, which were rewarded by the capture of the
President; and Decatur's surrender seems decidedly tame. But as regards the action between
the President and Endymion (taking into account the fact that the former fought almost under
the guns of an overwhelming force, and was therefore obliged to expose herself far more than
she otherwise would have), it showed nearly as great superiority on the side of the Americans
as the frigate actions of 1812 did--in fact, probably quite as much as in the case of the Java.
Similarly, while the Cyane and Levant did well, the Constitution did better; and Sir George
Collier's ships certainly did not distinguish themselves when in chase of Old Ironsides. So
with the Hornet in her two encounters; no one can question the pluck with which the Penguin
was fought, but her gunnery was as bad as that of the Cornwallis subsequently proved. And though
the skirmish between the Peacock and Nautilus is not one to which an American cares to look
back, yet, regarding it purely from a fighting stand-point, there is no question which crew
was the best trained and most skilful.

     LIST OF SHIPS BUILT IN 1815.

  Name.        Rate. Where Built.     Cost.
Washington    74   Portsmouth    $235,861.00
Independence  74   Boston         421,810.41
Franklin      74   Philadelphia   438,149.40
Guerriere     44   "              306,158.56
Java          44   Baltimore      232,767.38
Fulton        30   New York       320,000.00
Torpedo            "

These ships first put to sea in this year. For the first time in her history the United States
possessed line-of-battle ships; and for the first time in all history, the steam frigate appeared
on the navy list of a nation. The Fulton, with her clumsy central wheel, concealed from shot
by the double hull, with such thick scantling that none but heavy guns could harm her, and
relying for offensive weapons not on a broadside of thirty guns of small calibre, but on two
pivotal 100-pounder columbiads, or, perhaps, if necessary, on blows from her hog snout,--the
Fulton was the true prototype of the modern steam ironclad, with its few heavy guns and ram.
Almost as significant is the presence of the Torpedo. I have not chronicled the several efforts
made by the Americans to destroy British vessels with torpedoes; some very nearly succeeded,
and although they failed it must not be supposed that they did no good. On the contrary, they
made the British in many cases very cautious about venturing into good anchorage (especially
in Long Island Sound and the Chesapeake), and by the mere terror of their name prevented more
than one harrying expedition. The Fulton was not got into condition to be fought until just
as the war ended; had it continued a few months, it is more than probable that the deeds of
the Merrimac and the havoc wrought by the Confederate torpedoes would have been forestalled
by nearly half a century. As it was, neither of these engines of war attracted much attention.
For ten or fifteen years the Fulton was the only war-vessel of her kind in existence, and then
her name disappears from our lists. The torpedoes had been tried in the Revolutionary War,
but their failure prevented much notice from being taken of them, and, besides, at that time
there was a strong feeling that it was dishonorable to blow a ship up with a powder-can concealed
under the water, though highly laudable to burn her by means of a fire-raft floating on the
water--a nice distinction in naval ethics that has since disappeared. [Footnote: James fairly
foams at the mouth at the mere mention of torpedoes.]

  AMERICAN VESSELS DESTROYED, ETC.

                By Ocean Cruisers.
Name.            Guns.     Tonnage.     Remarks.
President       52        1,576      captured by squadron.
                 ---        -----
                  52 guns   1,576 tons.

  BRITISH VESSELS DESTROYED, ETC.

               a.--By Privateers.
Name.            Guns.     Tonnage.     Remarks.
Chasseur        12          240      by privateer St. Lawrence.

               b.--By Ocean Cruisers
Cyane           34          659      by Constitution.
Levant          20          500      retaken.
Penguin         19          477      by Hornet.
                 ---        -----
                  85 guns   1,876 tons.
                  20          500      (subtracting Levant).
                  65 guns,  1,376 tons.

In summing up the results of the struggle on the ocean it is to be noticed that very little
was attempted, and nothing done, by the American Navy that could materially affect the result
of the war. Commodore Rodgers' expedition after the Jamaica Plate fleet failed; both the efforts
to get a small squadron into the East Indian waters also miscarried; and otherwise the whole
history of the struggle on the ocean is, as regards the Americans, only the record of individual
cruises and fights. The material results were not very great, at least in their effect on Great
Britain, whose enormous navy did not feel in the slightest degree the loss of a few frigates
and sloops. But morally the result was of inestimable benefit to the United States. The victories
kept up the spirits of the people, cast down by the defeats on land; practically decided in
favor of the Americans the chief question in dispute--Great Britain's right of search and impressment--and
gave the navy, and thereby the country, a world-wide reputation. I doubt if ever before a nation
gained so much honor by a few single-ship duels. For there can be no question which side came
out of the war with the greatest credit. The damage inflicted by each on the other was not
very unequal in amount, but the balance was certainly in favor of the United States, as can
be seen by the following tables, for the details of which reference can be made to the various
years:

                 AMERICAN LOSS.        BRITISH LOSS.

  Caused:          Tonnage.   Guns.   Tonnage.[1] Guns.
By Ocean Cruisers    5,984     278      8,451      351
On the Lakes           727      37      4,159      212
By the Army          3,007     116        500       22
By Privateers          --       --        402       20
                    ------    ----     ------     ----
   Total,            9,718     431     13,512      605

[Footnote 1: The tonnage can only be given approximately, as that of the vessels on Lake Champlain
is not exactly known, although we know about what the two fleets tonned relatively to one another.]

In addition we lost 4 revenue-cutters, mounting 24 guns, and, in the aggregate, of 387 tons,
and also, 25 gun-boats, with 71 guns, and, in the aggregate, of nearly 2,000 tons. This would
swell our loss to 12,105 tons, and 526 guns; [Footnote: This differs greatly from the figures
given by James in his "Naval Occurrences" (App. ccxv). He makes the American loss 14,844 tons,
and 660 guns. His list includes, for example, the "Growler and Hamilton, upset in carrying
sail to avoid Sir James' fleet"; it would be quite reasonable to put down the loss of the Royal
George to the credit of the French. Then he mentions the Julia and Growler, which were recaptured;
the Asp, which was also recaptured; the "New York, 46, destroyed at Washington," which was
not destroyed or harmed in any way, and which, moreover, was a condemned hulk; the "Boston,
42 (in reality 32), destroyed at Washington," which had been a condemned hulk for ten years,
and had no guns or anything else in her, and was as much a loss to our navy as the fishing
up and burning of an old wreck would have been; and 8 gun-boats whose destruction was either
mythical, or else which were not national vessels. By deducting all these we reduce James'
total by 120 guns, and 2,600 tons; and a few more alterations (such as excluding the swivels
in the President's tops, which he counts, etc.), brings his number down to that given above--and
also affords a good idea of the value to be attached to his figures and tables. The British
loss he gives at but 530 guns and 10,273 tons. He omits the 24-gun ship burnt by Chauncy at
York, although including the frigate and corvette burnt by Ross at Washington; if the former
is excluded the two latter should be, which would make the balance still more in favor of the
Americans. He omits the guns of the Gloucester, because they had been taken out of her and
placed in battery on the shore, bur he includes those of the Adams, which had been served in
precisely the same way. He omits all reference to the British 14-gun schooner burnt on Ontario,
and to all 3 and 4-gun sloops and schooners captured there, although including the corresponding
American vessels. The reason that he so much underestimates the tonnage, especially on the
lakes, I have elsewhere discussed. His tables of the relative loss in men are even more erroneous,
exaggerating that of the Americans, and greatly underestimating that of the British; but I
have not tabulated this on account of the impossibility of getting fair estimates of the killed
and wounded in the cutting-out expeditions, and the difficulty of enumerating the prisoners
taken in descents, etc. Roughly, about 2,700 Americans and 3,800 British were captured; the
comparative loss in killed and wounded stood much more in our favor.

I have excluded from the British loss the brigs Detroit and Caledonia, and schooner Nancy (aggregating
10 guns and about 500 tons), destroyed on the upper lakes, because I hardly know whether they
could be considered national vessels; the schooner Highflyer, of 8 guns, 40 men, and 209 tons,
taken by Rodgers, because she seems to have been merely a tender; and the Dominica, 15, of
77 men, and 270 tons, because her captor, the privateer Decatur, though nominally an American,
was really a French vessel. Of course both tables are only approximately exact; but at any
rate the balance of damage and loss was over 4 to 3 in our favor.] but the loss of the revenue-cutters
and gun-boats can fairly be considered to be counterbalanced by the capture or destruction
of the various British Royal Packets (all armed with from 2 to 10 guns), tenders, barges, etc.,
which would be in the aggregate of at least as great tonnage and gun force, and with more numerous
crews.

But the comparative material loss gives no idea of the comparative honor gained. The British
navy, numbering at the onset a thousand cruisers, had accomplished less than the American,
which numbered but a dozen. Moreover, most of the loss suffered by the former was in single
fight, while this had been but twice the case with the Americans, who had generally been overwhelmed
by numbers. The President and Essex were both captured by more than double their force simply
because they were disabled before the fight began, otherwise they would certainly have escaped.
With the exceptions of the Chesapeake and Argus (both of which were taken fairly, because their
antagonists, though of only equal force, were better fighters), the remaining loss of the Americans
was due to the small cruisers stumbling from time to time across the path of some one of the
innumerable British heavy vessels. Had Congressional forethought been sufficiently great to
have allowed a few line-of-battle ships to have been in readiness some time previous to the
war, results of weight might have been accomplished. But the only activity ever exhibited by
Congress in materially increasing the navy previous to the war, had been in partially carrying
out President Jefferson's ideas of having an enormous force of very worthless gun-boats--a
scheme whose wisdom was about on a par with some of that statesman's political and military
theories.

Of the twelve [Footnote: Not counting the last action of the Constitution, the President's
action, or the capture of the Essex, on account of the difficulty of fairly estimating the
amount of credit due to each side. In both the first actions, however, the American ships seem
to have been rather more ably fought than their antagonists, and, taking into account the overwhelming
disadvantages under which the Essex labored, her defence displayed more desperate bravery than
did that of any other ship during the war.] single-ship actions, two (those of the Argus and
Chesapeake) undoubtedly redounded most to the credit of the British, in two (that of the Wasp
with the Reindeer, and that of the Enterprise with the Boxer), the honors were nearly even,
and in the other eight the superiority of the Americans was very manifest. In three actions
(those with the Penguin, Frolic, and Shannon) the combatants were about equal in strength,
the Americans having slightly the advantage; in all the others but two, the victors combined
superiority of force with superiority of skill. In but two cases, those of the Argus and Epervier,
could any lack of courage be imputed to the vanquished. The second year alone showed to the
advantage of the British; the various encounters otherwise were as creditable to the Americans
at the end as at the beginning of the war. This is worth attending to, because many authors
speak as if the successes of the Americans were confined to the first year. It is true that
no frigate was taken after the first year, but this was partly because the strictness of the
blockade kept the American frigates more in port, while the sloops put out to sea at pleasure,
and partly because after that year the British 18-pounder frigates either cruised in couples,
or, when single, invariably refused, by order of the Board of Admiralty, an encounter with
a 24-pounder; and though much of the American success was unquestionably to be attributed to
more men and heavier guns, yet much of it was not. The war itself gives us two instances in
which defeat was owing solely, it may be said, to inferiority of force, courage and skill being
equal. The Wasp was far heavier than the Reindeer, and, there being nothing to choose between
them in any thing else, the damage done was about proportionate to this difference. It follows,
as a matter of course, that the very much greater disproportion in loss in the cases of the
Avon, Epervier, etc., where the disproportion in force was much less (they mounting 32's instead
of 24's, and the victors being all of the same class), is only to be explained by the inferiority
in skill on the part of the vanquished. These remarks apply just as much to the Argus. The
Reindeer, with her 24's, would have been almost exactly on a par with her, and yet would have
taken her with even greater ease than the Peacock did with her 32's. In other words, the only
effect of our superiority in metal, men, and tonnage was to increase somewhat the disparity
in loss. Had the Congress and Constellation, instead of the United States and Constitution,
encountered the Macedonian and Java, the difference in execution would have been less than
it was, but the result would have been unchanged, and would have been precisely such as ensued
when the Wasp met the Frolic, or the Hornet the Penguin. On the other hand, had the Shannon
met the Constitution there would have been a repetition of the fight between the Wasp and Reindeer;
for it is but fair to remember that great as is the honor that Broke deserves, it is no more
than that due to Manners.

The Republic of the United States owed a great deal to the excellent make and armament of its
ships, but it owed still more to the men who were in them. The massive timbers and heavy guns
of Old Ironsides would have availed but little had it not been for her able commanders and
crews. Of all the excellent single-ship captains, British or American, produced by the war,
the palm should be awarded to Hull. [Footnote: See "Naval Tactics," by Commander J. H. Ward,
and "Life of Commodore Tatnall," by Charles C. Jones, Jr.] The deed of no other man (excepting
Macdonough) equalled his escape from Broke's five ships, or surpassed his half-hour's conflict
with the Guerriere. After him, almost all the American captains deserve high praise--Decatur,
Jones, Blakely, Biddle, Bainbridge, Lawrence, Burrows, Allen, Warrington, Stewart, Porter.
It is no small glory to a country to have had such men upholding the honor of its flag. On
a par with the best of them are Broke, Manners, and also Byron and Blythe. It must be but a
poor-spirited American whose veins do not tingle with pride when he reads of the cruises and
fights of the sea-captains, and their grim prowess, which kept the old Yankee flag floating
over the waters of the Atlantic for three years, in the teeth of the mightiest naval power
the world has ever seen; but it is equally impossible not to admire Broke's chivalric challenge
and successful fight, or the heroic death of the captain of the Reindeer.

Nor can the war ever be fairly understood by any one who does not bear in mind that the combatants
were men of the same stock, who far more nearly resembled each other than either resembled
any other nation. I honestly believe that the American sailor offered rather better material
for a man-of-warsman than the British, because the freer institutions of his country (as compared
with the Britain of the drunken Prince Regent and his dotard father--a very different land
from the present free England) and the peculiar exigencies of his life tended to make him more
intelligent and self-reliant; but the difference, when there was any, was very small, and disappeared
entirely when his opponents had been drilled for any length of time by men like Broke or Manners.
The advantage consisted in the fact that our average commander was equal to the best, and higher
than the average, of the opposing captains; and this held good throughout the various grades
of the officers. The American officers knew they had redoubtable foes to contend with, and
made every preparation accordingly. Owing their rank to their own exertions, trained by practical
experience and with large liberty of action, they made every effort to have their crews in
the most perfect state of skill and discipline. In Commodore Tatnall's biography (p. 15) it
is mentioned that the blockaded Constellation had her men well trained at the guns and at target
practice, though still lying in the river, so as to be at once able to meet a foe when she
put out to sea. The British captain, often owing his command to his social standing or to favoritism,
hampered by red tape, [Footnote: For instance, James mentions that they were forbidden to use
more than so many shot in practice, and that Capt. Broke utterly disregarded this command.]
and accustomed by 20 years' almost uninterrupted success to regard the British arms as invincible,
was apt to laugh at all manoeuvring, [Footnote: Lord Howard Douglass, "Naval Gunnery," states
this in various places.--"Accustomed to contemn all manoeuvring."] and scorned to prepare too
carefully for a fight, trusting to the old British "pluck and luck" to carry him through. So,
gradually he forgot how to manoeuvre or to prepare. The Java had been at sea six weeks before
she was captured, yet during that time the entire exercise of her crew at the guns had been
confined to the discharge of six broadsides of blank cartridges (James, vi, 184); the Constitution,
like the Java, had shipped an entirely new and raw crew previous to her first cruise, and was
at sea but five weeks before she met the Guerriere, and yet her men had been trained to perfection.
This is a sufficient comment on the comparative merits of Captain Hull and Captain Lambert.
The American prepared himself in every possible way; the Briton tried to cope with courage
alone against courage united to skill. His bad gunnery had not been felt in contending with
European foes [Footnote: Lord Howard Douglass; he seems to think that in 1812 the British had
fallen off absolutely, though not relatively to their European foes.] as unskilful as himself.
Says Lord Howard Douglass (p. 3): "We entered with too much confidence into a war with a marine
much more expert than any of our European enemies * * * there was inferiority of gunnery as
well as of force," etc. Admiral Codrington, commenting on the Epervier's loss, says, as before
quoted, that, owing to his being chosen purely for merit, the American captain was an overmatch
for the British, unless "he encountered our best officers on equal terms." Their ships were
faster; the crews, composed of chosen men, manoeuvred with uniformity and precision; their
captains had that practical knowledge which is only to be acquired by long experience of the
sea; and it is not to be wondered at that the Constitution, when chased during three days by
a squadron of five English frigates, succeeded in escaping, by surpassing them in manoeuvring,
and by availing herself of every ingenious resource and skilful expedient that maritime science
could suggest. * * * To a marine exalted by success, but rendered negligent by the very habit
of victory, the Congress only opposed the best of vessels and most formidable of armaments.
* * *" [Footnote: The praise should be given to the individual captains and not to Congress,
however; and none of the American ships had picked crews. During the war the Shannon had the
only crew which could with any fairness be termed "picked," for her men had been together seven
years, and all of her "boys" must have been well-grown young men, much older than the boys
on her antagonist.]

It is interesting to compare the results of this inter-Anglian warfare, waged between the Insular
and the Continental English, with the results of the contest that the former were at the same
time carrying on with their Gallo-Roman neighbors across the channel. For this purpose I shall
rely on Troude's "Batailles Navales," which would certainly not give the English more than
their due. His account of the comparative force in each case can be supplemented by the corresponding
one given in James. Under drawn battles I include all such as were indecisive, in so far that
neither combatant was captured; in almost every case each captain claimed that the other ran away.

During the year 1812 to 1815 inclusive, there were eight actions between French and English
ships of approximately equal force. In three of these the English were victorious.

In 1812 the Victorious, 74, captured the Rivoli, 74.

  COMPARATIVE FORCE.
  Broadsides, Metal, lbs.

               Troude.  James.
Victorious    1,014   1,060
Rivoli        1,010   1,085

In 1814 the Tagus captured the Ceres and the Hebrus captured the Etoile.

  Broadsides, Metal, lbs.

               Troude.  James.
Tagus          444      467
Ceres          428      463

Hebrus         467      467 Etoile         428      463

The Ceres, when she surrendered, had but one man wounded, although she had suffered a good
deal aloft. The fight between the 74's was murderous to an almost unexampled degree, 125 English
and 400 French falling. The Hebrus lost 40 and the Etoile 120 men.

Five actions were "drawn."

In 1812 the Swallow fought the Renard and Garland. The former threw 262, the latter 290 lbs.
of shot at a broadside.

In 1815 the Pilot, throwing 262 lbs., fought a draw with the Egerie throwing 260.

In 1814 two frigates of the force of the Tagus fought a draw with two frigates of the force
of the Ceres; and the Eurotas, with 24-pounders failed to capture the Chlorinde, which had
only 18-pounders. In 1815 the Amelia fought a draw with the Arethuse, the ships throwing respectively
549 and 463 lbs., according to the English, or 572 and 410 lbs., according to the French accounts.
In spite of being superior in force the English ship lost 141 men, and the French but 105.
This was a bloodier fight than even that of the Chesapeake with the Shannon; but the gunnery
was, nevertheless, much worse than that shown by the two combatants in the famous duel off
Boston harbor, one battle lasting four hours and the other 15 minutes.

There were a number of other engagements where the British were successful but where it is
difficult to compare the forces. Twice a 74 captured or destroyed two frigates, and a razee
performed a similar feat. An 18-gun brig, the Weasel, fought two 16-gun brigs till one of them
blew up.

The loss of the two navies at each other's hands during the four years was:--

  English Ships.         French Ships.
  1 16-gun brig       3 line-of-battle ships
  1 12-gun brig      11 frigates
  1 10-gun cutter     2 26-gun flutes
                      2 16-gun brigs
                      1 10-gun brig
                      many gun-boats, etc.

Or one navy lost three vessels, mounting 38 guns, and the other 19 vessels, mounting 830 guns.

During the same time the English lost to the Danes one 14-gun brig, and destroyed in return
a frigate of 46 guns, a 6-gun schooner, a 4-gun cutter, two galliots and several gun-brigs.

In the above lists it is to be noticed how many of the engagements were indecisive, owing chiefly
to the poor gunnery of the combatants. The fact that both the Eurotas and the Amelia, though
more powerfully armed and manned than the Hebrus, yet failed to capture the sister ships of
the frigate taken by the latter, shows that heavy metal and a numerous crew are not the only
elements necessary for success; indeed the Eurotas and Amelia were as superior in force to
their antagonists as the Constitution was to the Java.

But the chief point to be noticed is the overwhelming difference in the damage the two navies
caused each other. This difference was, roughly, as five to one against the Danes, and as fifty
to one against the French; while it was as four to three in favor of the American. These figures
give some idea of the effectiveness of the various navies. At any rate they show that we had
found out what the European nations had for many years in vain striven to discover--a way to
do more damage than we received in a naval contest with England.

While our navy had been successful, the war on land had been for us full of humiliation. The
United States then formed but a loosely knit confederacy, the sparse population scattered over
a great expanse of land. Ever since the Federalist party had gone out of power in 1800, the
nation's ability to maintain order at home and enforce respect abroad had steadily dwindled;
and the twelve years' nerveless reign of the Doctrinaire Democracy had left us impotent for
attack and almost as feeble for defence. Jefferson, though a man whose views and theories had
a profound influence upon our national life, was perhaps the most incapable Executive that
ever filled the presidential chair; being almost purely a visionary, he was utterly unable
to grapple with the slightest actual danger, and, not even excepting his successor, Madison,
it would be difficult to imagine a man less fit to guide the state with honor and safety through
the stormy times that marked the opening of the present century. Without the prudence to avoid
war or the forethought to prepare for it, the Administration drifted helplessly into a conflict
in which only the navy prepared by the Federalists twelve years before, and weakened rather
than strengthened during the intervening time, saved us from complete and shameful defeat.
True to its theories, the House of Virginia made no preparations, and thought the war could
be fought by "the nation in arms"; the exponents of this particular idea, the militiamen, a
partially armed mob, ran like sheep whenever brought into the field. The regulars were not
much better. After two years of warfare, Scott records in his autobiography that there were
but two books of tactics (one written in French) in the entire army on the Niagara frontier;
and officers and men were on such a dead level of ignorance that he had to spend a month drilling
all of the former, divided into squads, in the school of the soldier and school of the company.
[Footnote: "Memoirs of Lieutenant-General Scott," written by himself (2 vols., New York, 1864),
i, p. 115.] It is small wonder that such troops were utterly unable to meet the English. Until
near the end, the generals were as bad as the armies they commanded, and the administration
of the War Department continued to be a triumph of imbecility to the very last. [Footnote:
Monroe's biographer (see "James Monroe," by Daniel C. Gilman, Boston, 1883, p. 123) thinks
he made a good Secretary of War. I think he was as much a failure as his predecessors, and
a harsher criticism could not be passed on him. Like the other statesmen of his school, he
was mighty in word and weak in action; bold to plan but weak to perform. As an instance, contrast
his fiery letters to Jackson with the fact that he never gave him a particle of practical help.]
With the exception of the brilliant and successful charge of the Kentucky mounted infantry
at the battle of the Thames, the only bright spot in the war in the North was the campaign
on the Niagara frontier during the summer of 1814; and even here, the chief battle, that of
Lundy's Lane, though reflecting as much honor on the Americans as on the British, was for the
former a defeat, and not a victory, as most of our writers seem to suppose.

But the war had a dual aspect. It was partly a contest between the two branches of the English
race, and partly a last attempt on the part of the Indian tribes to check the advance of the
most rapidly growing one of these same two branches; and this last portion of the struggle,
though attracting comparatively little attention, was really much the most far-reaching in
its effect upon history. The triumph of the British would have distinctly meant the giving
a new lease of life to the Indian nationalities, the hemming in, for a time, of the United
States, and the stoppage, perhaps for many years, of the march of English civilization across
the continent. The English of Britain were doing all they could to put off the day when their
race would reach to a worldwide supremacy.

There was much fighting along our Western frontier with various Indian tribes; and it was especially
fierce in the campaign that a backwoods general of Tennessee, named Andrew Jackson, carried
on against the powerful confederacy of the Creeks, a nation that was thrust in like a wedge
between the United States proper and their dependency, the newly acquired French province of
Louisiana. After several slaughtering fights, the most noted being the battle of the Horse-shoe
Bend, the power of the Creeks was broken for ever; and afterward, as there was much question
over the proper boundaries of what was then the Latin land of Florida, Jackson marched south,
attacked the Spaniards and drove them from Pensacola. Meanwhile the British, having made a
successful and ravaging summer campaign through Virginia and Maryland, situated in the heart
of the country, organized the most formidable expedition of the war for a winter campaign against
the outlying land of Louisiana, whose defender Jackson of necessity became. Thus, in the course
of events, it came about that Louisiana was the theatre on which the final and most dramatic
act of the war was played.

Amid the gloomy, semi-tropical swamps that cover the quaking delta thrust out into the blue
waters of the Mexican Gulf by the strong torrent of the mighty Mississippi, stood the fair,
French city of New Orleans. Its lot had been strange and varied. Won and lost, once and again,
in conflict with the subjects of the Catholic king, there was a strong Spanish tinge in the
French blood that coursed so freely through the veins of its citizens; joined by purchase to
the great Federal Republic, it yet shared no feeling with the latter, save that of hatred to
the common foe. And now an hour of sore need had come upon the city; for against it came the
red English, lords of fight by sea and land. A great fleet of war vessels--ships of the line--frigates
and sloops--under Admiral Cochrane, was on the way to New Orleans, convoying a still larger
fleet of troop ships, with aboard them some ten thousand fighting men, chiefly the fierce and
hardy veterans of the Peninsular War, [Footnote: "The British infantry embarked at Bordeaux,
some for America, some for England." ("History of the War in the Peninsula," by Major-General
Sir W. F. P. Napier, K. C. B. New Edition. New York, 1882, vol. v, p. 200.) For discussion
of numbers, see farther on.] who had been trained for seven years in the stern school of the
Iron Duke, and who were now led by one of the bravest and ablest of all Wellington's brave
and able lieutenants, Sir Edward Packenham.

On the 8th of December 1814, the foremost vessels, with among their number the great two-decker
Tonnant, carrying the admiral's flag, anchored off the Chandeleur Islands [Footnote: See, ante,
p. 343.]; and as the current of the Mississippi was too strong to be easily breasted, the English
leaders determined to bring their men by boats through the bayous, and disembark them on the
bank of the river ten miles below the wealthy city at whose capture they were aiming. There
was but one thing to prevent the success of this plan, and that was the presence in the bayous
of five American gun-boats, manned by a hundred and eighty men, and commanded by Lieutenant
Comdg. Catesby Jones, a very shrewd fighter. So against him was sent Captain Nicholas Lockyer
with forty-five barges, and nearly a thousand sailors and marines, men who had grown gray during
a quarter of a century of unbroken ocean warfare. The gun-boats were moored in a head-and-stern
line, near the Rigolets, with their boarding-nettings triced up, and every thing ready to do
desperate battle; but the British rowed up with strong, swift strokes, through a murderous
fire of great guns and musketry; the vessels were grappled amid fierce resistance; the boarding-nettings
were slashed through and cut away; with furious fighting the decks were gained; and one by
one, at push of pike and cutlass stroke the gun-boats were carried in spite of their stubborn
defenders; but not till more than one barge had been sunk, while the assailants had lost a
hundred men, and the assailed about half as many.

There was now nothing to hinder the landing of the troops; and as the scattered transports
arrived, the soldiers were disembarked, and ferried through the sluggish water of the bayous
on small flat-bottomed craft; and finally, Dec. 23d, the advance guard, two thousand strong,
under General Keane, emerged at the mouth of the canal Villere, and camped on the bank of the
river, [Footnote: Letter of Major-General John Keane, Dec. 26, 1814.] but nine miles below
New Orleans, which now seemed a certain prize, almost within their grasp.

Yet, although a mighty and cruel foe was at their very gates, nothing save fierce defiance
reigned in the fiery creole hearts of the Crescent City. For a master-spirit was in their midst.
Andrew Jackson, having utterly broken and destroyed the most powerful Indian confederacy that
had ever menaced the Southwest, and having driven the haughty Spaniards from Pensacola, was
now bending all the energies of his rugged intellect and indomitable will to the one object
of defending New Orleans. No man could have been better fitted for the task. He had hereditary
wrongs to avenge on the British, and he hated them with an implacable fury that was absolutely
devoid of fear. Born and brought up among the lawless characters of the frontier, and knowing
well how to deal with them, he was able to establish and preserve the strictest martial law
in the city without in the least quelling the spirit of the citizens. To a restless and untiring
energy he united sleepless vigilance and genuine military genius. Prompt to attack whenever
the chance offered itself, seizing with ready grasp the slightest vantage-ground, and never
giving up a foot of earth that he could keep, he yet had the patience to play a defensive game
when it so suited him, and with consummate skill he always followed out the scheme of warfare
that was best adapted to this wild soldiery. In after-years he did to his country some good
and more evil; but no true American can think of his deeds at New Orleans without profound
and unmixed thankfulness.

He had not reached the city till December 2d, and had therefore but three weeks in which to
prepare the defence. The Federal Government, throughout the campaign, did absolutely nothing
for the defence of Louisiana; neither provisions nor munitions of war of any sort were sent
to it, nor were any measures taken for its aid. [Footnote: "Historical Memoir of the War in
West Florida and Louisiana" (by Major A. Lacarriex Latour, translated from the French by H.
P. Nugent, Philadelphia, 1816), p. 66.] The inhabitants had been in a state of extreme despondency
up to the time that Jackson arrived, for they had no one to direct them, and they were weakened
by factional divisions [Footnote: Latour, 53.]; but after his coming there was nothing but
the utmost enthusiasm displayed, so great was the confidence he inspired, and so firm his hand
in keeping down all opposition. Under his direction earthworks were thrown up to defend all
the important positions, the whole population working night and day at them; all the available
artillery was mounted, and every ounce of war material that the city contained was seized;
martial law was proclaimed; and all general business was suspended, every thing being rendered
subordinate to the one grand object of defence.

Jackson's forces were small. There were two war vessels in the river. One was the little schooner
Carolina, manned by regular seamen, largely New Englanders. The other was the newly built ship
Louisiana, a powerful corvette; she had of course no regular crew, and her officers were straining
every nerve to get one from the varied ranks of the maritime population of New Orleans; long-limbed
and hard-visaged Yankees, Portuguese and Norwegian seamen from foreign merchantmen, dark-skinned
Spaniards from the West Indies, swarthy Frenchmen who had served under the bold privateersman
Lafitte,--all alike were taken, and all alike by unflagging exertions were got into shape for
battle. [Footnote: Letter of Commodore Daniel G. Patterson, Dec. 20, 1814.] There were two
regiments of regulars, numbering together about eight hundred men, raw and not very well disciplined,
but who were now drilled with great care and regularity. In addition to this Jackson raised
somewhat over a thousand militiamen among the citizens. There were some Americans among them,
but they were mostly French Creoles, [Footnote: Latour, 110.] and one band had in its formation
something that was curiously pathetic. It was composed of free men of color, [Footnote: Latour,
111.] who had gathered to defend the land which kept the men of their race in slavery; who
were to shed their blood for the Flag that symbolized to their kind not freedom but bondage;
who were to die bravely as freemen, only that their brethren might live on ignobly as slaves.
Surely there was never a stranger instance than this of the irony of fate.

But if Jackson had been forced to rely only on these troops New Orleans could not have been
saved. His chief hope lay in the volunteers of Tennessee, who, under their Generals, Coffee
and Carroll, were pushing their toilsome and weary way toward the city. Every effort was made
to hurry their march through the almost impassable roads, and at last, in the very nick of
time, on the 23d of December, the day of which the British troops reached the river bank, the
vanguard of the Tennesseeans marched into New Orleans. Gaunt of form and grim of face; with
their powder-horns slung over their buckskin shirts; carrying their long rifles on their shoulders
and their heavy hunting-knives stuck in their belts; with their coon-skin caps and fringed
leggings; thus came the grizzly warriors of the backwoods, the heroes of the Horse-Shoe Bend,
the victors over Spaniard and Indian, eager to pit themselves against the trained regulars
of Britain, and to throw down the gage of battle to the world-renowned infantry of the island
English. Accustomed to the most lawless freedom, and to giving free reign to the violence of
their passions, defiant of discipline and impatient of the slightest restraint, caring little
for God and nothing for man, they were soldiers who, under an ordinary commander, would have
been fully as dangerous to themselves and their leaders as to their foes. But Andrew Jackson
was of all men the one best fitted to manage such troops. Even their fierce natures quailed
before the ungovernable fury of a spirit greater than their own; and their sullen, stubborn
wills were bent as last before his unyielding temper and iron hand. Moreover, he was one of
themselves; he typified their passions and prejudices, their faults and their virtues; he shared
their hardships as if he had been a common private, and, in turn, he always made them partakers
of his triumphs. They admired his personal prowess with pistol and rifle, his unswerving loyalty
to his friends, and the relentless and unceasing war that he waged alike on the foes of himself
and his country. As a result they loved and feared him as few generals have ever been loved
or feared; they obeyed him unhesitatingly; they followed his lead without flinching or murmuring,
and they ever made good on the field of battle the promise their courage held out to his judgment.

