Douglas proceeded westward, with six regiments of horse and ten of foot, to reduce Athlone.
But the place was by far too strong for so small a force to besiege, and still less to take
it. Athlone had always been a stronghold. For centuries the bridge and castle had formed the
great highway into Connaught. The Irish town is defended on the eastern side by the Shannon,
a deep and wide river, almost impossible to pass in the face of a hostile army.

Douglas summoned the Irish garrison to surrender. Colonel Richard Grace, the gallant old governor,
returned a passionate defiance. "These are my terms," he said, discharging a pistol at the
messenger: "when my provisions are consumed, I will defend my trust until I have eaten my boots."

Abandoning as indefensible the English part of the town, situated on the east side of the Shannon,
Grace set fire to it, and retired with all his forces to the western side, blowing up an arch
of the bridge behind him. The English then brought up the few cannon they had with them, and
commenced battering the walls. The Irish had more cannon, and defended themselves with vigour.
The besiegers made a breach in the castle, but it was too high and too small for an assault.
"Notwithstanding this," says Rapin, "the firing continued very brisk on both sides; but the
besiegers having lost Mr. Neilson, their best gunner, and the cavalry suffering very much for
want of forage; and at the same time it being reported that Sarsfield was advancing with fifteen
thousand men to relieve the place, Douglas held a council of war, wherein it was thought fit
to raise the siege, which he accordingly did on the 25th, having lost near four hundred men
before the town, the greatest part of whom died of sickness."

Thus, after a week's ineffectual siege, Douglas left Athlone, and made all haste to rejoin
the army of William, which had already reduced the most important towns in the south of Ireland.
On the 7th of August he rejoined William at Cahirconlish, a few miles west of Limerick. The
flower of the Irish army was assembled at Limerick. The Duke of Berwick and General Sarsfield
occupied the city with their forces. The French general, Boileau, commanded the garrison. The
besieged were almost as numerous as the besiegers. William, by garrisoning the towns of which
he took possession, had reduced his forces to about twenty thousand men.

Limerick was fortified by walls, batteries, and ramparts. It was also defended by a castle
and citadel. It had always been a place of great strength. The chivalry of the Anglo-Norman
monarch, the Ironsides of Cromwell, had been defeated under its walls; and now the victorious
army of William III. was destined to meet with a similar repulse.

Limerick is situated in an extensive plain, watered by the noble Shannon. The river surrounds
the town on three sides. Like Athlone, the city is divided into the English and Irish towns,
connected together by a bridge. The English town was much the strongest. It was built upon
an island, surrounded by morasses, which could at any time be flooded on the approach of an
enemy. The town was well supplied with provisions--all Clare and Galway being open to it, from
whence it could draw supplies.

Notwithstanding the strength of the fortress, William resolved to besiege it. He was ill supplied
with cannon, having left his heavy artillery at Dublin. He had only a field train with him,
which was quite insufficient for his purpose. William's advance-guards drove the Irish outposts
before them; the pioneers cutting down the hedges and filling up the ditches, until they came
to a narrow pass between two bogs, where a considerable body of Irish horse and foot were assembled
to dispute the pass.

Two field-pieces were brought up, which played with such effect upon the Irish horse that they
soon quitted their post. At the same time Colonel Earle, at the head of the English foot, attacked
the Irish who were firing through the hedges, so that they also retired after two hours' fighting.
The Irish were driven to the town walls, and William's forces took possession of two important
positions, Cromwell's fort and the old Chapel. The Danes also occupied an old Danish fort,
built by their ancestors, of which they were not a little proud.

The army being thus posted, a trumpeter was sent, on the 9th of August, to summon the garrison
to surrender. General Boileau answered, that he intended to make a vigorous defence of the
town with which his Majesty had intrusted him. In the meantime, William had ordered up his
train of artillery from Dublin. They were on their way to join him, when a spy from William's
camp went over to the enemy, and informed them of the route, the motions, and the strength
of the convoy. Sarsfield at once set out with a strong body of horse. He passed the Shannon
in the night, nine miles above Limerick, lurked all day in the mountains near Ballyneety, and
waited for the approach of the convoy.

The men of William's artillery, seeing no enemy, turned out their horses to graze, and went
to sleep in the full sense of security. Sarsfield's body of horse came down upon them, slew
or dispersed the convoy, and took possession of the cannon. Sarsfield could not, however, take
the prizes into Limerick. He therefore endeavoured to destroy them. Cramming the guns with
powder up to their muzzles, and burying their mouths deep in the earth, then piling the stores,
waggons, carriages, and baggage over them, he laid a train and fired it, just as Sir John Lanier,
with a body of cavalry, was arriving to rescue the convoy. The explosion was tremendous, and
was heard at the camp of William, more than seven miles off. Sarsfield's troops returned to
Limerick in triumph.

Notwithstanding these grievous discouragements, William resolved to persevere. He recovered
two of the guns, which remained uninjured. He obtained others from Waterford. The trenches
were opened on the 17th of August. A battery was raised below the fort to the right of the
trenches. Firing went on on both sides. Several redoubts were taken. By the 25th, the trenches
were advanced to within thirty paces of the ditch near St. John's Gate, and a breach was made
in the walls about twelve yards wide.

The assault was ordered to take place on the 27th. The English grenadiers took the lead, supported
by a hundred French officers and volunteers. The enemy were dislodged from the covered way
and the two forts which guarded the breach on each side. The assailants entered the breach,
but they were not sufficiently supported. The Irish rallied. They returned to the charge, helped
by the women, who pelted the besiegers with stones, broken bottles, and such other missiles
as came readily to hand. A Brandenburg regiment having assailed and taken the Black Battery,
it was blown up by an explosion, which killed many of the men. In fine, the assault was vigorously
repulsed; and William's troops retreated to the main body, with a loss of six hundred men killed
on the spot and as many mortally wounded.

Rapin was severely wounded. A musket shot hit him in the shoulder, and completely disabled
him. His brother Solomon was also wounded. His younger brother fell dead by his side. They
belonged to the "forlorn hope," and were volunteers in the assault on the breach. Rapin was
raised to the rank of captain.

The siege of Limerick was at once raised. The heavy baggage and cannon were sent away on the
30th of August, and the next day the army decamped and marched towards Clonmel. The King intrusted
the command of his army to Lieutenant-General Ginckel, and set sail for England from Duncannon
Fort, near Waterford, on the 5th of September.

The campaign was not yet over. The Earl of Marlborough landed near Cork with four thousand
men. Reinforced by four thousand Danes and French Huguenots, he shortly succeeded in taking
the fortified towns of Cork and Kinsale. After garrisoning these places the Earl returned to
England.

General Ginckel went into winter quarters at Mullingar, in Westmeath. The French troops, under
command of Count Lauzun, went into Galway. Lauzun shortly after returned to France, and St.
Ruth was sent over to take command of the French and Irish army. But they hung about Galway
doing nothing. In the meantime Ginckel was carefully preparing for the renewal of the campaign.
He was reinforced by an excellent body of troops from Scotland, commanded by General Mackay.
He was also well supplied, through the vigilance of William, with all the necessaries of war.

Rapin's friend, Colonel Lord Douglas, pressed him to accompany him to Flanders as his aide-de-camp;
but the wound in his shoulder still caused him great pain, and he was forced to decline the
appointment. Strange to say, his uncle Pélisson--the converter, or rather the buyer, of so
many Romish converts in France--sent him a present of fifty pistoles through his cousin M.
de la Bastide, which consoled him greatly during his recovery.

General Ginckel broke up his camp at Mullingar at the beginning of June, and marched towards
Athlone. The Irish had assembled a considerable army at Ballymore, about midway between Mullingar
and Athlone. They had also built a fort there, and intended to dispute the passage of Ginckel's
army. A sharp engagement took place when his forces came up. The Irish were defeated, with
the loss of over a thousand prisoners and all their baggage.

Ginckel then appeared before Athlone, but the second resistance of the besieged was much less
successful than the first. St. Ruth, the French general, treated the Irish officers and soldiers
under his command with supercilious contempt. He admitted none of their officers into his councils.
He was as ignorant of the army which he commanded as of the country which he occupied. Nor
was he a great general. He had been principally occupied in France in hunting and hanging the
poor Protestants of Dauphiny and the Cevennes. He had never fought a pitched battle; and his
incapacity led to the defeat of the Irish at Athlone, and afterwards at Aughrim.

St. Ruth treated his English adversaries with as much contempt as he did his Irish followers.
When he heard that the English were about to cross the Shannon, he said "it was impossible
for them to take the town, and be so near with an army to succour it." He added that he would
give a thousand louis if they durst attempt it. To which Sarsfield retorted, "Spare your money
and mind your business; for I know that no enterprise is too difficult for British courage
to attempt."

Ginckel took possession of the English town after some resistance, when the Irish army retreated
to the other side of the Shannon. Batteries were planted, pontoons were brought up, and the
siege began with vigour. Ginckel attempted to get possession of the bridge. One of the arches
was broken down, on the Connaught side of the river. Under cover of a heavy fire, a party of
Ginckel's men succeeded in raising a plank-work for the purpose of spanning the broken arch.
The work was nearly completed, when a sergeant and ten bold Scots belonging to Maxwell's Brigade
on the Irish side, pushed on to the bridge; but they were all slain. A second brave party was
more successful than the first. They succeeded in throwing all the planks and beams into the
river, only two men escaping with their lives.

Ginckel then attempted to repair the broken arch by carrying a close gallery on the bridge,
in order to fill up the gap with heavy planks. All was ready, and an assault was ordered for
next day. It was resolved to cross the Shannon in three places--one body to cross by the narrow
ford below the bridge, another by the pontoons above it, while the main body was to force the
bridge itself. On the morning of the intended crossing, the Irish sent a volley of grenades
among the wooden work of the bridge, when some of the fascines took fire, and the whole fabric
was soon in a blaze. The smoke blew into the faces of the English, and it was found impossible
to cross the river that day.

A council of war was held, to debate whether it was advisable to renew the attack or to raise
the siege and retreat. The cannonade had now continued for eight days, and nothing had been
gained. Some of the officers were for withdrawing, but the majority were in favour of making
a general assault on the following day--seeing more danger in retreating than in advancing.
The Duke of Wurtemberg, Major-Generals Mackay, Talmash, Ruvigny, Tetleau, and Colonel Cambon
urged "that no brave action could be performed without hazard; and that the attempt was like
to be attended with success." Moreover, they proffered themselves to be the first to pass the
river and attack the enemy.

The assault was therefore agreed upon. The river was then at the lowest state at which it had
been for years. Next morning, at six o'clock--the usual hour for relieving guards--the detachments
were led down to the river. Captain Sands led the first party of sixty grenadiers. They were
supported by another strong detachment of grenadiers and six battalions of foot. They went
into the water twenty abreast, clad in armour, and pushed across the ford a little below the
bridge. The stream was very rapid, and the passage difficult, by reason of the great stones
which lay at the bottom of the river. The guns played over them from the batteries and covered
their passage. The grenadiers reached the other side amidst the fire and smoke of their enemies.
They held their ground and made for the bridge. Some of them laid planks over the broken arch,
and others helped at preparing the pontoons. Thus the whole of the English army were able to
cross to the Irish side of the river. In less than half an hour they were masters of the town.
The Irish were entirely surprised. They fled in all directions, and lost many men. The besiegers
did not lose above fifty.

St. Ruth, the Irish commander-in-chief, seemed completely idle during the assault. It is true
he ordered several detachments to drive the English from the town after it had been taken;
but, remembering that the fortifications of Athlone, nearest to his camp, had not been razed,
and that they were now in possession of the enemy, he recalled his troops, and decamped from
before Athlone that very night. In a few days Ginckel followed him, and inflicted on his army
a terrible defeat at the battle of Aughrim. With that, however, we have nothing to do at present,
but proceed to follow the fortunes of Rapin.

Rapin entered Athlone with his regiment, and conducted himself with his usual valour. Ginckel
remained only a few days in the place, in order to repair the fortifications. That done, he
set out in pursuit of the enemy. He left two regiments in the castle, one of which was that
to which Rapin belonged. The soldiers, who belonged to different nationalities, had many contentions
with each other. The officers stood upon their order of precedence. The men were disposed to
quarrel. Aided by a friend, a captain like himself, Rapin endeavoured to pacify the men, and
to bring the officers to reason. By his kind, gentle, and conciliatory manner, he soon succeeded
in restoring quiet and mutual confidence; and during his stay at Athlone no further disturbance
occurred among the garrison.

Rapin was ordered to Kilkenny, where he had a similar opportunity of displaying his qualities
of conciliation. A quarrel had sprung up between the chief magistrate of the town and the officers
of the garrison. Rapin interceded, and by his firmness and moderation he reconciled all differences;
and, at the same time, he gained the respect and admiration of both the disputing parties.

By this time the second siege of Limerick had occurred. Ginckel surrounded the city, and battered
the walls and fortresses for six weeks. The French and Irish armies at length surrendered.
Fourteen thousand Irish marched out with the honours of war. A large proportion of them joined
the army of Louis XIV., and were long after known as "The Irish Brigade." Although they fought
valiantly and honourably in many well-known battles, they were first employed in Louis' persecution
of the Protestants in the Vaudois and Cevennes mountains. Their first encounter was with the
Camisards, under Cavalier, their peasant leader. They gained no glory in that campaign, but
a good deal of discredit.

In the meantime Ireland had been restored to peace. After the surrender of Limerick no further
resistance was offered to the arms of William III. A considerable body of English troops remained
in Ireland to garrison the fortresses. Rapin's regiment was stationed at Kinsale, and there
he rejoined it in 1693. He made the intimate friendship of Sir James Waller, the governor of
the town. Sir James was a man of much intelligence, a keen observer, and an ardent student.
By his knowledge of political history, he inspired Rapin with a like taste, and determined
him at a later period in his life to undertake what was a real want at the time, an intelligent
and readable history of England.

Rapin was suddenly recalled to England. He was required to leave his regiment and report himself
to King William. No reason was given; but with his usual obedience to orders he at once set
out. He did not leave Ireland without regret. He was attached to his numerous Huguenot comrades,
and he hoped yet to rise to higher guides in the King's service. By special favour he was allowed
to hand over his company to his brother Solomon, who had been wounded at the first siege of
Limerick. His brother received the promotion which he himself had deserved, and afterwards
became lieutenant-colonel of dragoons. Rapin's fortune led him in quite another direction.

It turned out that, by the recommendation of the Earl of Galway (formerly the Marquis de Ruvigny,
another French Huguenot), he had been recalled to London for the purpose of being appointed
governor and tutor to Lord Woodstock, son of Bentinck, Earl of Portland, one of King William's
most devoted servants. Lord Galway was consulted by the King as to the best tutor for the son
of his friend. He knew of Rapin's valour and courage during his campaigns in Ireland; he also
knew of his discretion, his firmness, and his conciliatory manners, in reconciling the men
under his charge at Athlone and Kilkenny; and he was also satisfied about his thoughtfulness,
his delicacy of spirit, his grace and his nobleness--for he had been bred a noble, though he
had first served as a common soldier in the army of William.

The King immediately approved the recommendation of Lord Galway. He knew of Rapin's courage
at the battle of the Boyne; and he remembered--as every true captain does remember--the serious
wound he had received while accompanying the forlorn hope at the first siege of Limerick. Hence
the sudden recall of Rapin from Ireland. On his arrival in London he was presented to the King,
and immediately after he entered upon his new function of conducting the education of the future
Duke of Portland.

