At Lerici we took a boat and pushed into the rolling breakers. Christian now felt the movement
of the sea for the first time. This was rather a rude trial, for the grey-maned monsters played,
as it seemed, at will with our cockle-shell, tumbling in dolphin curves to reach the shore.
Our boatmen knew all about Shelley and the Casa Magni. It is not at Lerici, but close to San
Terenzio, upon the south side of the village. Looking across the bay from the molo, one could
clearly see its square white mass, tiled roof, and terrace built on rude arcades with a broad
orange awning. Trelawny's description hardly prepares one for so considerable a place. I think
the English exiles of that period must have been exacting if the Casa Magni seemed to them
no better than a bathing-house.

We left our boat at the jetty, and walked through some gardens to the villa. There we were
kindly entertained by the present occupiers, who, when I asked them whether such visits as
ours were not a great annoyance, gently but feelingly replied: "It is not so bad now as it
used to be." The English gentleman who rents the Casa Magni has known it uninterruptedly since
Shelley's death, and has used it for villeggiatura during the last thirty years. We found him
in the central sitting-room, which readers of Trelawny's Recollections have so often pictured
to themselves. The large oval table, the settees round the walls, and some of the pictures
are still unchanged. As we sat talking, I laughed to think of that luncheon party, when Shelley
lost his clothes, and came naked, dripping with sea-water, into the room, protected by the
skirts of the sympathising waiting-maid. And then I wondered where they found him on the night
when he stood screaming in his sleep, after the vision of his veiled self, with its question,
"Siete soddisfatto?"

There were great ilexes behind the house in Shelley's time, which have been cut down, and near
these he is said to have sat and written the Triumph of Life. Some new houses, too, have been
built between the villa and the town; otherwise the place is unaltered. Only an awning has
been added to protect the terrace from the sun. I walked out on this terrace, where Shelley
used to listen to Jane's singing. The sea was fretting at its base, just as Mrs. Shelley says
it did when the Don Juan disappeared.

From San Terenzio we walked back to Lerici through olive woods, attended by a memory which
toned the almost overpowering beauty of the place to sadness.

VII.--VIAREGGIO.

The same memory drew us, a few days later, to the spot where Shelley's body was burned. Viareggio
is fast becoming a fashionable watering-place for the people of Florence and Lucca, who seek
fresher air and simpler living than Livorno offers. It has the usual new inns and improvised
lodging-houses of such places, built on the outskirts of a little fishing village, with a boundless
stretch of noble sands. There is a wooden pier on which we walked, watching the long roll of
waves, foam-flaked, and quivering with moonlight. The Apennines faded into the grey sky beyond,
and the sea-wind was good to breathe. There is a feeling of "immensity, liberty, action" here,
which is not common in Italy. It reminds us of England; and to-night the Mediterranean had
the rough force of a tidal sea.

Morning revealed beauty enough in Viareggio to surprise even one who expects from Italy all
forms of loveliness. The sand-dunes stretch for miles between the sea and a low wood of stone
pines, with the Carrara hills descending from their glittering pinnacles by long lines to the
headlands of the Spezzian Gulf. The immeasurable distance was all painted in sky-blue and amethyst;
then came the golden green of the dwarf firs; and then dry yellow in the grasses of the dunes;
and then the many-tinted sea, with surf tossed up against the furthest cliffs. It is a wonderful
and tragic view, to which no painter but the Roman Costa has done justice; and he, it may be
said, has made this landscape of the Carrarese his own. The space between sand and pine-wood
was covered with faint, yellow, evening primroses. They flickered like little harmless flames
in sun and shadow, and the spires of the Carrara range were giant flames transformed to marble.
The memory of that day described by Trelawny in a passage of immortal English prose, when he
and Byron and Leigh Hunt stood beside the funeral pyre, and libations were poured, and the
Cor Cordium was found inviolate among the ashes, turned all my thoughts to flame beneath the
gentle autumn sky.

Still haunted by these memories, we took the carriage road to Pisa, over which Shelley's friends
had hurried to and fro through those last days. It passes an immense forest of stone-pines--aisles
and avenues; undergrowth of ilex, laurustinus, gorse, and myrtle; the crowded cyclamens, the
solemn silence of the trees; the winds hushed in their velvet roof and stationary domes of verdure.

MONTE OLIVETO.

I.

In former days the traveller had choice of two old hostelries in the chief street of Siena.
Here, if he was fortunate, he might secure a prophet's chamber, with a view across tiled house-roofs
to the distant Tuscan champaign--glimpses of russet field and olive-garden framed by jutting
city walls, which in some measure compensated for much discomfort. He now betakes himself to
the more modern Albergo di Siena, overlooking the public promenade La Lizza. Horse-chestnuts
and acacias make a pleasant foreground to a prospect of considerable extent. The front of the
house is turned toward Belcaro and the mountains between Grosseto and Volterra. Sideways its
windows command the brown bulk of San Domenico, and the Duomo, set like a marble coronet upon
the forehead of the town. When we arrived there one October afternoon the sun was setting amid
flying clouds and watery yellow spaces of pure sky, with a wind blowing soft and humid from
the sea. Long after he had sunk below the hills, a fading chord of golden and rose-coloured
tints burned on the city. The cathedral bell-tower was glistening with recent rain, and we
could see right through its lancet windows to the clear blue heavens beyond. Then, as the day
descended into evening, the autumn trees assumed that wonderful effect of luminousness self-evolved,
and the red brick walls that crimson after-glow, which Tuscan twilight takes from singular
transparency of atmosphere.

It is hardly possible to define the specific character of each Italian city, assigning its
proper share to natural circumstances, to the temper of the population, and to the monuments
of art in which these elements of nature and of human qualities are blended. The fusion is
too delicate and subtle for complete analysis; and the total effect in each particular case
may best be compared to that impressed on us by a strong personality, making itself felt in
the minutest details. Climate, situation, ethnological conditions, the political vicissitudes
of past ages, the bias of the people to certain industries and occupations, the emergence of
distinguished men at critical epochs, have all contributed their quota to the composition of
an individuality which abides long after the locality has lost its ancient vigour.

Since the year 1557, when Gian Giacomo de' Medici laid the country of Siena waste, levelled
her luxurious suburbs, and delivered her famine-stricken citizens to the tyranny of the Grand
Duke Cosimo, this town has gone on dreaming in suspended decadence. Yet the epithet which was
given to her in her days of glory, the title of "Fair Soft Siena," still describes the city.
She claims it by right of the gentle manners, joyous but sedate, of her inhabitants, by the
grace of their pure Tuscan speech, and by the unique delicacy of her architecture. Those palaces
of brick, with finely-moulded lancet windows, and the lovely use of sculptured marbles in pilastered
colonnades, are fit abodes for the nobles who reared them five centuries ago, of whose refined
and costly living we read in the pages of Dante or of Folgore da San Gemignano. And though
the necessities of modern life, the decay of wealth, the dwindling of old aristocracy, and
the absorption of what was once an independent state in the Italian nation, have obliterated
that large signorial splendour of the Middle Ages, we feel that the modern Sienese are not
unworthy of their courteous ancestry.

Superficially, much of the present charm of Siena consists in the soft opening valleys, the
glimpses of long blue hills and fertile country-side, framed by irregular brown houses stretching
along the slopes on which the town is built, and losing themselves abruptly in olive fields
and orchards. This element of beauty, which brings the city into immediate relation with the
country, is indeed not peculiar to Siena. We find it in Perugia, in Assisi, in Montepulciano,
in nearly all the hill towns of Umbria and Tuscany. But their landscape is often tragic and
austere, while this is always suave. City and country blend here in delightful amity. Neither
yields that sense of aloofness which stirs melancholy.

The most charming district in the immediate neighbourhood of Siena lies westward, near Belcaro,
a villa high up on a hill. It is a region of deep lanes and golden-green oak-woods, with cypresses
and stone-pines, and little streams in all directions flowing over the brown sandstone. The
country is like some parts of rural England--Devonshire or Sussex. Not only is the sandstone
here, as there, broken into deep gullies; but the vegetation is much the same. Tufted spleen-wort,
primroses, and broom tangle the hedges under boughs of hornbeam and sweet-chestnut. This is
the landscape which the two sixteenth century novelists of Siena, Fortini and Sermini, so lovingly
depicted in their tales. Of literature absorbing in itself the specific character of a country,
and conveying it to the reader less by description than by sustained quality of style, I know
none to surpass Fortini's sketches. The prospect from Belcaro is one of the finest to be seen
in Tuscany. The villa stands at a considerable elevation, and commands an immense extent of
hill and dale. Nowhere, except Maremma-wards, a level plain. The Tuscan mountains, from Monte
Amiata westward to Volterra, round Valdelsa, down to Montepulciano and Radicofani, with their
innumerable windings and intricacies of descending valleys, are dappled with light and shade
from flying storm-clouds, sunshine here and there cloud-shadows. Girdling the villa stands
a grove of ilex-trees, cut so as to embrace its high-built walls with dark continuous green.
In the courtyard are lemon-trees and pomegranates laden with fruit. From a terrace on the roof
the whole wide view is seen; and here upon a parapet, from which we leaned one autumn afternoon,
my friend discovered this graffito: "E vidi e piansi il fato amaro!"--"I gazed, and gazing,
wept the bitterness of fate."

II.

The prevailing note of Siena and the Sienese seems, as I have said, to be a soft and tranquil
grace; yet this people had one of the stormiest and maddest of Italian histories. They were
passionate in love and hate, vehement in their popular amusements, almost frantic in their
political conduct of affairs. The luxury, for which Dante blamed them, the levity De Comines
noticed in their government found counter-poise in more than usual piety and fervour. S. Bernardino,
the great preacher and peace-maker of the Middle Ages; S. Catherine, the worthiest of all women
to be canonised; the blessed Colombini, who founded the Order of the Gesuati or Brothers of
the Poor in Christ; the blessed Bernardo, who founded that of Monte Oliveto; were all Sienese.
Few cities have given four such saints to modern Christendom. The biography of one of these
may serve as prelude to an account of the Sienese monastery of Oliveto Maggiore.

The family of Tolomei was among the noblest of the Sienese aristocracy. On May 10, 1272, Mino
Tolomei and his wife Fulvia, of the Tancredi, had a son whom they christened Giovanni, but
who, when he entered the religious life, assumed the name of Bernard, in memory of the great
Abbot of Clairvaux. Of this child, Fulvia is said to have dreamed, long before his birth, that
he assumed the form of a white swan, and sang melodiously, and settled in the boughs of an
olive-tree, whence afterwards he winged his way to heaven amid a flock of swans as dazzling
white as he. The boy was educated in the Dominican Cloister at Siena, under the care of his
uncle Christoforo Tolomei. There, and afterwards in the fraternity of S. Ansano, he felt that
impulse towards a life of piety, which after a short but brilliant episode of secular ambition,
was destined to return with overwhelming force upon his nature. He was a youth of promise,
and at the age of sixteen he obtained the doctorate in philosophy and both laws, civil and
canonical. The Tolomei upon this occasion adorned their palaces and threw them open to the
people of Siena. The Republic hailed with acclamation the early honours of a noble, born to
be one of their chief leaders. Soon after this event Mino obtained for his son from the Emperor
the title of Cæsarian Knight; and when the diploma arrived, new festivities proclaimed the
fortunate youth to his fellow-citizens. Bernardo cased his limbs in steel, and rode in procession
with ladies and young nobles through the streets. The ceremonies of a knight's reception in
Siena at that period were magnificent. From contemporary chronicles and from the sonnets written
by Folgore da San Gemignano for a similar occasion, we gather that the whole resources of a
wealthy family and all their friends were strained to the utmost to do honour to the order
of chivalry. Open house was held for several days. Rich presents of jewels, armour, dresses,
chargers were freely distributed. Tournaments alternated with dances. But the climax of the
pageant was the novice's investiture with sword and spurs and belt in the cathedral. This,
as it appears from a record of the year 1326, actually took place in the great marble pulpit
carved by the Pisani; and the most illustrious knights of his acquaintance were summoned by
the squire to act as sponsors for his fealty.

It is said that young Bernardo Tolomei's head was turned to vanity by these honours showered
upon him in his earliest manhood. Yet, after a short period of aberration, he rejoined his
confraternity and mortified his flesh by discipline and strict attendance on the poor. The
time had come, however, when he should choose a career suitable to his high rank. He devoted
himself to jurisprudence, and began to lecture publicly on law. Already at the age of twenty-five
his fellow-citizens admitted him to the highest political offices, and in the legend of his
life it is written, not without exaggeration doubtless, that he ruled the State. There is,
however, no reason to suppose that he did not play an important part in its government. Though
a just and virtuous statesman, Bernardo now forgot the special service of God, and gave himself
with heart and soul to mundane interests. At the age of forty, supported by the wealth, alliances,
and reputation of his semi-princely house, he had become one of the most considerable party-leaders
in that age of faction. If we may trust his monastic biographer, he was aiming at nothing less
than the tyranny of Siena. But in that year, when he was forty, a change, which can only be
described as conversion, came over him. He had advertised a public disputation, in which he
proposed before all comers to solve the most arduous problems of scholastic science. The concourse
was great, the assembly brilliant; but the hero of the day, who had designed it for his glory,
was stricken with sudden blindness. In one moment he comprehended the internal void he had
created for his soul, and the blindness of the body was illumination to the spirit. The pride,
power, and splendour of this world seemed to him a smoke that passes. God, penitence, eternity
appeared in all the awful clarity of an authentic vision. He fell upon his knees and prayed
to Mary that he might receive his sight again. This boon was granted; but the revelation which
had come to him in blindness was not withdrawn. Meanwhile the hall of disputation was crowded
with an expectant audience. Bernardo rose from his knees, made his entry, and ascended the
chair; but instead of the scholastic subtleties he had designed to treat, he pronounced the
old text, "Vanity of vanities, all is vanity."

Afterwards, attended by two noble comrades, Patrizio Patrizzi and Ambrogio Piccolomini, he
went forth into the wilderness. For the human soul, at strife with strange experience, betakes
itself instinctively to solitude. Not only prophets of Israel, saints of the Thebaid, and founders
of religions in the mystic East have done so; even the Greek Menander recognised, although
he sneered at, the phenomenon. "The desert, they say, is the place for discoveries." For the
mediæval mind it had peculiar attractions. The wilderness these comrades chose was Accona,
a doleful place, hemmed in with earthen precipices, some fifteen miles to the south of Siena.
Of his vast possessions Bernardo retained but this--

                     The lonesome lodge,
    That stood so low in a lonely glen.

The rest of his substance he abandoned to the poor. This was in 1313, the very year of the
Emperor Henry VII.'s death at Buonconvento, which is a little walled town between Siena and
the desert of Accona. Whether Bernardo's retirement was in any way due to the extinction of
immediate hope for the Ghibelline party by this event, we do not gather from his legend. That,
as is natural, refers his action wholly to the operation of divine grace. Yet we may remember
how a more illustrious refugee, the singer of the Divine Comedy, betook himself upon the same
occasion to the lonely convent of Fonte Avellana on the Alps of Catria, and meditated there
the cantos of his Purgatory. While Bernardo Tolomei was founding the Order of Monte Oliveto,
Dante penned his letter to the cardinals of Italy: Quomodo sola sedet civitas plena populo:
facta est quasi vidua domino gentium.

Bernardo and his friends hollowed with their own hands grottos in the rock, and strewed their
stone beds with withered chestnut-leaves. For S. Scolastica, the sister of S. Benedict, they
built a little chapel. Their food was wild fruit, and their drink the water of the brook. Through
the day they delved, for it was in their mind to turn the wilderness into a land of plenty.
By night they meditated on eternal truth. The contrast between their rude life and the delicate
nurture of Sienese nobles, in an age when Siena had become a by-word for luxury, must have
been cruel. But it fascinated the mediæval imagination, and the three anchorites were speedily
joined by recruits of a like temper. As yet the new-born order had no rules; for Bernardo,
when he renounced the world, embraced humility. The brethren were bound together only by the
ties of charity. They lived in common; and under their sustained efforts Accona soon became
a garden.

The society could not, however, hold together without further organisation. It began to be
ill spoken of, inasmuch as vulgar minds can recognise no good except in what is formed upon
a pattern they are familiar with. Then Bernardo had a vision. In his sleep he saw a ladder
of light ascending to the heavens. Above sat Jesus with Our Lady in white raiment, and the
celestial hierarchies around them were attired in white. Up the ladder, led by angels, climbed
men in vesture of dazzling white; and among these Bernardo recognised his own companions. Soon
after this dream, he called Ambrogio Piccolomini, and bade him get ready for a journey to the
Pope at Avignon.

John XXII. received the pilgrims graciously, and gave them letters to the Bishop of Arezzo,
commanding him to furnish the new brotherhood with one of the rules authorised by Holy Church
for governance of a monastic order. Guido Tarlati, of the great Pietra-mala house, was Bishop
and despot of Arezzo at this epoch. A man less in harmony with coenobitical enthusiasm than
this warrior prelate, could scarcely have been found. Yet attendance to such matters formed
part of his business, and the legend even credits him with an inspired dream; for Our Lady
appeared to him, and said: "I love the valley of Accona and its pious solitaries. Give them
the rule of Benedict. But thou shalt strip them of their mourning weeds, and clothe them in
white raiment, the symbol of my virgin purity. Their hermitage shall change its name, and henceforth
shall be called Mount Olivet, in memory of the ascension of my divine Son, the which took place
upon the Mount of Olives. I take this family beneath my own protection; and therefore it is
my will it should be called henceforth the congregation of S. Mary of Mount Olivet." After
this, the Blessed Virgin took forethought for the heraldic designs of her monks, dictating
to Guido Tarlati the blazon they still bear; it is of three hills or, whereof the third and
highest is surmounted with a cross gules, and from the meeting-point of the three hillocks
upon either hand a branch of olive vert. This was in 1319. In 1324, John XXII. confirmed the
order, and in 1344 it was further approved by Clement VI. Affiliated societies sprang up in
several Tuscan cities; and in 1347, Bernardo Tolomei, at that time General of the Order, held
a chapter of its several houses. The next year was the year of the great plague or Black Death.
Bernardo bade his brethren leave their seclusion, and go forth on works of mercy among the
sick. Some went to Florence, some to Siena, others to the smaller hill-set towns of Tuscany.
All were bidden to assemble on the Feast of the Assumption at Siena. Here the founder addressed
his spiritual children for the last time. Soon afterwards he died himself, at the age of seventy-seven,
and the place of his grave is not known. He was beatified by the Church for his great virtues.

III.

At noon we started, four of us, in an open waggonette with a pair of horses, for Monte Oliveto,
the luggage heaped mountain-high and tied in a top-heavy mass above us. After leaving the gateway,
with its massive fortifications and frescoed arches, the road passes into a dull earthy country,
very much like some parts--and not the best parts--of England. The beauty of the Sienese contado
is clearly on the sandstone, not upon the clay. Hedges, haystacks, isolated farms--all were
English in their details. Only the vines, and mulberries, and wattled waggons drawn by oxen,
most Roman in aspect, reminded us we were in Tuscany. In such carpenta may the vestal virgins
have ascended the Capitol. It is the primitive war-chariot also, capable of holding four with
ease; and Romulus may have mounted with the images of Roman gods in even such a vehicle to
Latiarian Jove upon the Alban hill. Nothing changes in Italy. The wooden ploughs are those
which Virgil knew. The sight of one of them would save an intelligent lad much trouble in mastering
a certain passage of the Georgics.

Siena is visible behind us nearly the whole way to Buonconvento, a little town where the Emperor
Henry VII. died, as it was supposed, of poison, in 1313. It is still circled with the wall
and gates built by the Sienese in 1366, and is a fair specimen of an intact mediæval stronghold.
Here we leave the main road, and break into a country-track across a bed of sandstone, with
the delicate volcanic lines of Monte Amiata in front, and the aërial pile of Montalcino to
our right. The pyracanthus bushes in the hedge yield their clusters of bright yellow berries,
mingled with more glowing hues of red from haws and glossy hips. On the pale grey earthen slopes
men and women are plying the long Sabellian hoes of their forefathers, and ploughmen are driving
furrows down steep hills. The labour of the husbandmen in Tuscany is very graceful, partly,
I think, because it is so primitive, but also because the people have an eminently noble carriage,
and are fashioned on the lines of antique statues. I noticed two young contadini in one field,
whom Frederick Walker might have painted with the dignity of Pheidian form. They were guiding
their ploughs along a hedge of olive-trees, slanting upwards, the white-horned oxen moving
slowly through the marl, and the lads bending to press the plough-shares home. It was a delicate
piece of colour--the grey mist of olive branches, the warm smoking earth, the creamy flanks
of the oxen, the brown limbs and dark eyes of the men, who paused awhile to gaze at us, with
shadows cast upon the furrows from their tall straight figures. Then they turned to their work
again, and rhythmic movement was added to the picture. I wonder when an Italian artist will
condescend to pluck these flowers of beauty, so abundantly offered by the simplest things in
his own native land. Each city has an Accademia delle Belle Arti, and there is no lack of students.
But the painters, having learned their trade, make copies ten times distant from the truth
of famous masterpieces for the American market. Few seem to look beyond their picture galleries.
Thus the democratic art, the art of Millet, the art of life and nature and the people, waits.

As we mount, the soil grows of a richer brown; and there are woods of oak where herds of swine
are feeding on the acorns. Monte Oliveto comes in sight--a mass of red brick, backed up with
cypresses, among dishevelled earthy precipices, balze as they are called--upon the hill below
the village of Chiusure. This Chiusure was once a promising town; but the life was crushed
out of it in the throes of mediæval civil wars, and since the thirteenth century it has been
dwindling to a hamlet. The struggle for existence, from which the larger communes of this district,
Siena and Montepulciano, emerged at the expense of their neighbours, must have been tragical.
The balze now grow sterner, drier, more dreadful. We see how deluges outpoured from thunderstorms
bring down their viscous streams of loam, destroying in an hour the terraces it took a year
to build, and spreading wasteful mud upon the scanty cornfields. The people call this soil
creta; but it seems to be less like a chalk than a marl, or marna. It is always washing away
into ravines and gullies, exposing the roots of trees, and rendering the tillage of the land
a thankless labour. One marvels how any vegetation has the faith to settle on its dreary waste,
or how men have the patience, generation after generation, to renew the industry, still beginning,
never ending, which reclaims such wildernesses. Comparing Monte Oliveto with similar districts
of cretaceous soil--with the country, for example, between Pienza and San Quirico--we perceive
how much is owed to the monks whom Bernardo Tolomei planted here. So far as it is clothed at
all with crop and wood, this is their service.

At last we climb the crowning hill, emerge from a copse of oak, glide along a terraced pathway
through the broom, and find ourselves in front of the convent gateway. A substantial tower
of red brick, machicolated at the top and pierced with small square windows, guards this portal,
reminding us that at some time or other the monks found it needful to arm their solitude against
a force descending from Chiusure. There is an avenue of slender cypresses; and over the gate,
protected by a jutting roof, shines a fresco of Madonna and Child. Passing rapidly downwards,
we are in the courtyard of the monastery, among its stables, barns, and out-houses, with the
forlorn bulk of the huge red building spreading wide, and towering up above us. As good luck
ruled our arrival, we came face to face with the Abbate de Negro, who administers the domain
of Monte Oliveto for the Government of Italy, and exercises a kindly hospitality to chance-comers.
He was standing near the church, which, with its tall square campanile, breaks the long stern
outline of the convent. The whole edifice, it may be said, is composed of a red brick inclining
to purple in tone, which contrasts not unpleasantly with the lustrous green of the cypresses,
and the glaucous sheen of olives. Advantage has been taken of a steep crest; and the monastery,
enlarged from time to time through the last five centuries, has here and there been reared
upon gigantic buttresses, which jut upon the balze at a sometimes giddy height.

The Abbate received us with true courtesy, and gave us spacious rooms, three cells apiece,
facing Siena and the western mountains. There is accommodation, he told us, for three hundred
monks; but only three are left in it. As this order was confined to members of the nobility,
each of the religious had his own apartment--not a cubicle such as the uninstructed dream of
when they read of monks, but separate chambers for sleep and study and recreation.

In the middle of the vast sad landscape, the place is still, with a silence that can be almost
heard. The deserted state of those innumerable cells, those echoing corridors and shadowy cloisters,
exercises overpowering tyranny over the imagination. Siena is so far away, and Montalcino is
so faintly outlined on its airy parapet, that these cities only deepen our sense of desolation.
It is a relief to mark at no great distance on the hill-side a contadino guiding his oxen,
and from a lonely farm yon column of ascending smoke. At least the world goes on, and life
is somewhere resonant with song. But here there rests a pall of silence among the oak-groves
and the cypresses and balze. As I leaned and mused, while Christian (my good friend and fellow-traveller
from the Grisons) made our beds, a melancholy sunset flamed up from a rampart of cloud, built
like a city of the air above the mountains of Volterra--fire issuing from its battlements,
and smiting the fretted roof of heaven above. It was a conflagration of celestial rose upon
the saddest purples and cavernous recesses of intensest azure.

We had an excellent supper in the visitor's refectory--soup, good bread and country wine, ham,
a roast chicken with potatoes, a nice white cheese made of sheep's milk, and grapes for dessert.
The kind Abbate sat by, and watched his four guests eat, tapping his tortoise-shell snuff-box,
and telling us many interesting things about the past and present state of the convent. Our
company was completed with Lupo, the pet cat, and Pirro, a woolly Corsican dog, very good friends,
and both enormously voracious. Lupo in particular engraved himself upon the memory of Christian,
into whose large legs he thrust his claws, when the cheese-parings and scraps were not supplied
him with sufficient promptitude. I never saw a hungrier and bolder cat. It made one fancy that
even the mice had been exiled from this solitude. And truly the rule of the monastic order,
no less than the habit of Italian gentlemen, is frugal in the matter of the table, beyond the
conception of northern folk.

Monte Oliveto, the Superior told us, owned thirty-two poderi, or large farms, of which five
have recently been sold. They are worked on the mezzeria system; whereby peasants and proprietors
divide the produce of the soil; and which he thinks inferior for developing its resources to
that of affito, or lease-holding.

The contadini live in scattered houses; and he says the estate would be greatly improved by
doubling the number of these dwellings, and letting the sub-divided farms to more energetic
people. The village of Chiusure is inhabited by labourers. The contadini are poor: a dower,
for instance, of fifty lire is thought something: whereas near Genoa, upon the leasehold system,
a farmer may sometimes provide a dower of twenty thousand lire. The country produces grain
of different sorts, excellent oil, and timber. It also yields a tolerable red wine. The Government
makes from eight to nine per cent upon the value of the land, employing him and his two religious
brethren as agents.

In such conversations the evening passed. We rested well in large hard beds with dry rough
sheets. But there was a fretful wind abroad, which went wailing round the convent walls and
rattling the doors in its deserted corridors. One of our party had been placed by himself at
the end of a long suite of apartments, with balconies commanding the wide sweep of hills that
Monte Amiata crowns. He confessed in the morning to having passed a restless night, tormented
by the ghostly noises of the wind, a wanderer, "like the world's rejected guest," through those
untenanted chambers. The olives tossed their filmy boughs in twilight underneath his windows,
sighing and shuddering, with a sheen in them as eery as that of willows by some haunted mere.

IV.

The great attraction to students of Italian art in the convent of Monte Oliveto is a large
square cloister, covered with wall-paintings by Luca Signorelli and Giovannantonio Bazzi, surnamed
Il Sodoma. These represent various episodes in the life of S. Benedict; while one picture,
in some respects the best of the whole series, is devoted to the founder of the Olivetan Order,
Bernardo Tolomei, dispensing the rule of his institution to a consistory of white-robed monks.
Signorelli, that great master of Cortona, may be studied to better advantage elsewhere, especially
at Orvieto and in his native city. His work in this cloister, consisting of eight frescoes,
has been much spoiled by time and restoration. Yet it can be referred to a good period of his
artistic activity (the year 1497) and displays much which is specially characteristic of his
manner. In Totila's barbaric train, he painted a crowd of fierce emphatic figures, combining
all ages and the most varied attitudes, and reproducing with singular vividness the Italian
soldiers of adventure of his day. We see before us the long-haired followers of Braccio and
the Baglioni; their handsome savage faces; their brawny limbs clad in the parti-coloured hose
and jackets of that period; feathered caps stuck sideways on their heads; a splendid swagger
in their straddling legs. Female beauty lay outside the sphere of Signorelli's sympathy; and
in the Monte Oliveto cloister he was not called upon to paint it. But none of the Italian masters
felt more keenly, or more powerfully represented in their work, the muscular vigour of young
manhood. Two of the remaining frescoes, different from these in motive, might be selected as
no less characteristic of Signorelli's manner. One represents three sturdy monks, clad in brown,
working with all their strength to stir a boulder, which has been bewitched, and needs a miracle
to move it from its place. The square and powerfully outlined drawing of these figures is beyond
all praise for its effect of massive solidity. The other shows us the interior of a fifteenth
century tavern, where two monks are regaling themselves upon the sly. A country girl, with
shapely arms and shoulders, her upper skirts tucked round the ample waist to which broad sweeping
lines of back and breasts descend, is serving wine. The exuberance of animal life, the freedom
of attitude expressed in this, the mainly interesting figure of the composition, show that
Signorelli might have been a great master of realistic painting. Nor are the accessories less
effective. A wide-roofed kitchen chimney, a page-boy leaving the room by a flight of steps,
which leads to the house door, and the table at which the truant monks are seated, complete
a picture of homely Italian life. It may still be matched out of many an inn in this hill district.

Called to graver work at Orvieto, where he painted his gigantic series of frescoes illustrating
the coming of Antichrist, the Destruction of the World, the Resurrection, the Last Judgment,
and the final state of souls in Paradise and Hell, Signorelli left his work at Monte Oliveto
unaccomplished. Seven years later it was taken up by a painter of very different genius. Sodoma
was a native of Vercelli, and had received his first training in the Lombard schools, which
owed so much to Lionardo da Vinci's influence. He was about thirty years of age when chance
brought him to Siena. Here he made acquaintance with Pandolfo Petrucci, who had recently established
himself in a species of tyranny over the Republic. The work he did for this patron and other
nobles of Siena, brought him into notice. Vasari observes that his hot Lombard colouring, a
something florid and attractive in his style, which contrasted with the severity of the Tuscan
school, rendered him no less agreeable as an artist than his free manners made him acceptable
as a house-friend. Fra Domenico da Leccio, also a Lombard, was at that time General of the
monks of Monte Oliveto. On a visit to this compatriot in 1505, Sodoma received a commission
to complete the cloister; and during the next two years he worked there, producing in all twenty-five
frescoes. For his pains he seemed to have received but little pay--Vasari says, only the expenses
of some colour-grinders who assisted him; but from the books of the convent it appears that
241 ducats, or something over 60l. of our money, were disbursed to him.

Sodoma was so singular a fellow, even in that age of piquant personalities, that it may be
worth while to translate a fragment of Vasari's gossip about him. We must, however, bear in
mind that, for some unknown reason, the Aretine historian bore a rancorous grudge against this
Lombard, whose splendid gifts and great achievements he did all he could by writing to depreciate.
"He was fond," says Vasari, "of keeping in his house all sorts of strange animals: badgers,
squirrels, monkeys, cat-a-mountains, dwarf-donkeys, horses, racers, little Elba ponies, jackdaws,
bantams, doves of India, and other creatures of this kind, as many as he could lay his hands
on. Over and above these beasts, he had a raven, which had learned so well from him to talk,
that it could imitate its master's voice, especially in answering the door when some one knocked,
and this it did so cleverly that people took it for Giovannantonio himself, as all the folk
of Siena know quite well. In like manner, his other pets were so much at home with him that
they never left his house, but played the strangest tricks and maddest pranks imaginable, so
that his house was like nothing more than a Noah's Ark." He was a bold rider, it seems; for
with one of his racers, ridden by himself, he bore away the prize in that wild horse-race they
run upon the Piazza at Siena. For the rest, "he attired himself in pompous clothes, wearing
doublets of brocade, cloaks trimmed with gold lace, gorgeous caps, neck-chains, and other vanities
of a like description, fit for buffoons and mountebanks." In one of the frescoes of Monte Oliveto,
Sodoma painted his own portrait, with some of his curious pets around him. He there appears
as a young man with large and decidedly handsome features, a great shock of dark curled hair
escaping from a yellow cap, and flowing down over a rich mantle which drapes his shoulders.
If we may trust Vasari, he showed his curious humours freely to the monks. "Nobody could describe
the amusement he furnished to those good fathers, who christened him Mattaccio (the big madman),
or the insane tricks he played there."

In spite of Vasari's malevolence, the portrait he has given us of Bazzi has so far nothing
unpleasant about it. The man seems to have been a madcap artist, combining with his love for
his profession a taste for fine clothes, and what was then perhaps rarer in people of his sort,
a great partiality for living creatures of all kinds. The darker shades of Vasari's picture
have been purposely omitted from these pages. We only know for certain, about Bazzi's private
life, that he was married in 1510 to a certain Beatrice, who bore him two children, and who
was still living with him in 1541. The further suggestion that he painted at Monte Oliveto
subjects unworthy of a religious house, is wholly disproved by the frescoes which still exist
in a state of very tolerable preservation. They represent various episodes in the legend of
S. Benedict; all marked by that spirit of simple, almost childish piety which is a special
characteristic of Italian religious history. The series forms, in fact, a painted novella of
monastic life; its petty jealousies, its petty trials, its tribulations and temptations, and
its indescribably petty miracles. Bazzi was well fitted for the execution of this task. He
had a swift and facile brush, considerable versatility in the treatment of monotonous subjects,
and a never-failing sense of humour. His white-cowled monks, some of them with the rosy freshness
of boys, some with the handsome brown faces of middle life, others astute and crafty, others
again wrinkled with old age, have clearly been copied from real models. He puts them into action
without the slightest effort, and surrounds them with landscapes, architecture, and furniture,
appropriate to each successive situation. The whole is done with so much grace, such simplicity
of composition, and transparency of style, corresponding to the naïf and superficial legend,
that we feel a perfect harmony between the artist's mind and the motives he was made to handle.
In this respect Bazzi's portion of the legend of S. Benedict is more successful than Signorelli's.
It was fortunate, perhaps, that the conditions of his task confined him to uncomplicated groupings,
and a scale of colour in which white predominates. For Bazzi, as is shown by subsequent work
in the Farnesina Villa at Rome, and in the church of S. Domenico at Siena, was no master of
composition; and the tone, even of his masterpieces, inclines to heat. Unlike Signorelli, Bazzi
felt a deep artistic sympathy with female beauty; and the most attractive fresco in the whole
series is that in which the evil monk Florentius brings a bevy of fair damsels to the convent.
There is one group, in particular, of six women, so delicately varied in carriage of the head
and suggested movement of the body, as to be comparable only to a strain of concerted music.
This is perhaps the painter's masterpiece in the rendering of pure beauty, if we except his
S. Sebastian of the Uffizzi.

We tire of studying pictures, hardly less than of reading about them! I was glad enough, after
three hours spent among the frescoes of this cloister, to wander forth into the copses which
surround the convent. Sunlight was streaming treacherously from flying clouds; and though it
was high noon, the oak-leaves were still a-tremble with dew. Pink cyclamens and yellow amaryllis
starred the moist brown earth; and under the cypress-trees, where alleys had been cut in former
time for pious feet, the short firm turf was soft and mossy. Before bidding the hospitable
Padre farewell, and starting in our waggonette for Asciano, it was pleasant to meditate awhile
in these green solitudes. Generations of white-stoled monks who had sat or knelt upon the now
deserted terraces, or had slowly paced the winding paths to Calvaries aloft and points of vantage
high above the wood, rose up before me. My mind, still full of Bazzi's frescoes, peopled the
wilderness with grave monastic forms, and gracious, young-eyed faces of boyish novices.

MONTEPULCIANO.

I.

For the sake of intending travellers to this, the lordliest of Tuscan hill-towns, it will be
well to state at once and without circumlocution what does not appear upon the time-tables
of the line from Empoli to Rome. Montepulciano has a station; but this railway station is at
the distance of at least an hour and a half's drive from the mountain upon which the city stands.

The lumbering train which brought us one October evening from Asciano crawled into this station
after dark, at the very moment when a storm, which had been gathering from the south-west,
burst in deluges of rain and lightning. There was, however, a covered carriage going to the
town. Into this we packed ourselves, together with a polite Italian gentleman who, in answer
to our questions, consulted his watch, and smilingly replied that a little half-hour would
bring us easily to Montepulciano. He was a native of the place. He knew perfectly well that
he would be shut up with us in that carriage for two mortal hours of darkness and down-pour.
And yet, such is the irresistible impulse in Italians to say something immediately agreeable,
he fed us with false hopes and had no fear of consequences. What did it matter to him if we
were pulling out our watches and chattering in well-contented undertone about vino nobile,
biftek, and possibly a pollo arrosto, or a dish of tordi? At the end of the half-hour, as he
was well aware, self-congratulations and visions of a hearty supper would turn to discontented
wailings, and the querulous complaining of defrauded appetites. But the end of half an hour
was still half an hour off; and we meanwhile were comfortable.

The night was pitchy dark, and blazing flashes of lightning showed a white ascending road at
intervals. Rain rushed in torrents, splashing against the carriage wheels, which moved uneasily,
as though they could but scarcely stem the river that swept down upon them. Far away above
us to the left, was one light on a hill, which never seemed to get any nearer. We could see
nothing but a chasm of blackness below us on one side, edged with ghostly olive-trees, and
a high bank on the other. Sometimes a star swam out of the drifting clouds; but then the rain
hissed down again, and the flashes came in floods of livid light, illuminating the eternal
olives and the cypresses which looked like huge black spectres. It seemed almost impossible
for the horses to keep their feet, as the mountain road grew ever steeper and the torrent swelled
around them. Still they struggled on. The promised half hour had been doubled, trebled, quadrupled,
when at last we saw the great brown sombre walls of a city tower above us. Then we entered
one of those narrow lofty Tuscan gates, and rolled upon the pavement of a street.

The inn at Montepulciano is called Marzocco, after the Florentine lion which stands upon its
column in a little square before the house. The people there are hospitable, and more than
once on subsequent occasions have they extended to us kindly welcome. But on this, our first
appearance, they had scanty room at their disposal. Seeing us arrive so late, and march into
their dining-room, laden with sealskins, waterproofs, and ulsters, one of the party hugging
a complete Euripides in Didot's huge edition, they were confounded. At last they conducted
the whole company of four into a narrow back bed-room, where they pointed to one fair-sized
and one very little bed. This was the only room at liberty, they said; and could we not arrange
to sleep here? S'accomodi, Signore! S'accomodi, Signora! These encouraging words, uttered in
various tones of cheerful and insinuating politeness to each member of the party in succession,
failed to make us comprehend how a gentleman and his wife, with a lean but rather lengthy English
friend, and a bulky native of the Grisons, could "accommodate themselves" collectively and
undividedly with what was barely sufficient for their just moiety, however much it might afford
a night's rest to their worse half. Christian was sent out into the storm to look for supplementary
rooms in Montepulciano, which he failed to get. Meanwhile we ordered supper, and had the satisfaction
of seeing set upon the board a huge red flask of vino nobile. In copious draughts of this the
King of Tuscan wines, we drowned our cares; and when the cloth was drawn, our friend and Christian
passed their night upon the supper table. The good folk of the inn had recovered from their
surprise, and from the inner recesses of their house had brought forth mattresses and blankets.
So the better and larger half of the company enjoyed sound sleep.

It rained itself out at night, and the morning was clear, with the transparent atmosphere of
storm-clouds hurrying in broken squadrons from the bad sea quarter. Yet this is just the weather
in which Tuscan landscape looks its loveliest. Those immense expanses of grey undulating uplands
need the luminousness of watery sunshine, the colour added by cloud-shadows, and the pearly
softness of rising vapours, to rob them of a certain awful grimness. The main street of Montepulciano
goes straight uphill for a considerable distance between brown palaces; then mounts by a staircase-zigzag
under huge impending masses of masonry; until it ends in a piazza. On the ascent, at intervals,
the eye is fascinated by prospects to the north and east over Val di Chiana, Cortona, Thrasymene,
Chiusi; to south and west over Monte Cetona, Radicofani, Monte Amiata, the Val d'Ombrone, and
the Sienese Contado. Grey walls overgrown with ivy, arcades of time-toned brick, and the forbidding
bulk of houses hewn from solid travertine, frame these glimpses of aërial space. The piazza
is the top of all things. Here are the Duomo; the Palazzo del Comune, closely resembling that
of Florence, with the Marzocco on its front; the fountain, between two quaintly sculptured
columns; and the vast palace Del Monte, of heavy Renaissance architecture, said to be the work
of Antonio di San Gallo.

We climbed the tower of the Palazzo del Comune, and stood at the altitude of 2000 feet above
the sea. The view is finer in its kind than I have elsewhere seen, even in Tuscany, that land
of panoramic prospects over memorable tracts of world-historic country. Such landscape cannot
be described in words. But the worst is that, even while we gaze, we know that nothing but
the faintest memory of our enjoyment will be carried home with us. The atmospheric conditions
were perfect that morning. The sun was still young; the sky sparkled after the night's thunderstorm;
the whole immensity of earth around lay lucid, smiling, newly washed in baths of moisture.
Masses of storm-cloud kept rolling from the west, where we seemed to feel the sea behind those
intervening hills. But they did not form in heavy blocks or hang upon the mountain summits.
They hurried and dispersed and changed and flung their shadows on the world below.

II.

The charm of this view is composed of so many different elements, so subtly blent, appealing
to so many separate sensibilities; the sense of grandeur, the sense of space, the sense of
natural beauty, and the sense of human pathos; that deep internal faculty we call historic
sense; that it cannot be defined. First comes the immense surrounding space--a space measured
in each arc of the circumference by sections of at least fifty miles, limited by points of
exquisitely picturesque beauty, including distant cloud-like mountain ranges and crystals of
sky-blue Apennines, circumscribing landscapes of refined loveliness in detail, always varied,
always marked by objects of peculiar interest where the eye or memory may linger. Next in importance
to this immensity of space, so powerfully affecting the imagination by its mere extent, and
by the breadth of atmosphere attuning all varieties of form and colour to one harmony beneath
illimitable heaven, may be reckoned the episodes of rivers, lakes, hills, cities, with old
historic names. For there spreads the lordly length of Thrasymene, islanded and citadelled,
in hazy morning mist, still dreaming of the shock of Roman hosts with Carthaginian legions.
There is the lake of Chiusi, set like a jewel underneath the copse-clad hills which hide the
dust of a dead Tuscan nation. The streams of Arno start far far away, where Arezzo lies enfolded
in bare uplands. And there at our feet rolls Tiber's largest affluent, the Chiana. And there
is the canal which joins their fountains in the marsh that Lionardo would have drained. Monte
Cetona is yonder height which rears its bristling ridge defiantly from neighbouring Chiusi.
And there springs Radicofani, the eagle's eyrie of a brigand brood. Next, Monte Amiata stretches
the long lines of her antique volcano; the swelling mountain flanks, descending gently from
her cloud-capped top, are russet with autumnal oak and chestnut woods. On them our eyes rest
lovingly; imagination wanders for a moment through those mossy glades, where cyclamens are
growing now, and primroses in spring will peep amid anemones from rustling foliage strewn by
winter's winds. The heights of Casentino, the Perugian highlands, Volterra, far withdrawn amid
a wilderness of rolling hills, and solemn snow-touched ranges of the Spolentino, Sibyl-haunted
fastnesses of Norcia, form the most distant horizon-lines of this unending panorama. And then
there are the cities, placed each upon a point of vantage: Siena; olive-mantled Chiusi; Cortona,
white upon her spreading throne; poetic Montalcino, lifted aloft against the vaporous sky;
San Quirico, nestling in pastoral tranquillity; Pienza, where Æneas Sylvius built palaces and
called his birthplace after his own Papal name. Still closer to the town itself of Montepulciano,
stretching along the irregular ridge which gave it building ground, and trending out on spurs
above deep orchards, come the lovely details of oak-copses, blending with grey tilth and fields
rich with olive and vine. The gaze, exhausted with immensity, pierces those deeply cloven valleys,
sheltered from wind and open to the sun--undulating folds of brown earth, where Bacchus, when
he visited Tuscany, found the grape-juice that pleased him best, and crowned the wine of Montepulciano
king. Here from our eyrie we can trace white oxen on the furrows, guided by brown-limbed, white-shirted
contadini.

The morning glory of this view from Montepulciano, though irrecoverable by words, abides in
the memory, and draws one back by its unique attractiveness. On a subsequent visit to the town
in spring time, my wife and I took a twilight walk, just after our arrival, through its gloomy
fortress streets, up to the piazza, where the impendent houses lowered like bastions, and all
the masses of their mighty architecture stood revealed in shadow and dim lamplight. Far and
wide, the country round us gleamed with bonfires; for it was the eve of the Ascension, when
every contadino lights a beacon of chestnut logs and straw and piled-up leaves. Each castello
on the plain, each village on the hills, each lonely farmhouse at the skirt of forest or the
edge of lake, smouldered like a red Cyclopean eye beneath the vault of stars. The flames waxed
and waned, leapt into tongues, or disappeared. As they passed from gloom to brilliancy and
died away again, they seemed almost to move. The twilight scene was like that of a vast city,
filling the plain and climbing the heights in terraces. Is this custom, I thought, a relic
of old Pales-worship?

III.

The early history of Montepulciano is buried in impenetrable mists of fable. No one can assign
a date to the foundation of these high-hill cities. The eminence on which it stands belongs
to the volcanic system of Monte Amiata, and must at some time have formed a portion of the
crater which threw that mighty mass aloft. But æons have passed since the gran sasso di Maremma
was a fire-vomiting monster, glaring like Etna in eruption on the Tyrrhene sea; and through
those centuries how many races may have camped upon the summit we call Montepulciano! Tradition
assigns the first quasi-historical settlement to Lars Porsena, who is said to have made it
his summer residence, when the lower and more marshy air of Clusium became oppressive. Certainly
it must have been a considerable town in the Etruscan period. Embedded in the walls of palaces
may still be seen numerous fragments of sculptured bas-reliefs, the works of that mysterious
people. A propos of Montepulciano's importance in the early years of Roman history, I lighted
on a quaint story related by its very jejune annalist, Spinello Benci. It will be remembered
that Livy attributes the invasion of the Gauls, who, after besieging Clusium, advanced on Rome,
to the persuasions of a certain Aruns. He was an exile from Clusium; and wishing to revenge
himself upon his country-people, he allured the Senonian Gauls into his service by the promise
of excellent wine, samples of which he had taken with him into Lombardy. Spinello Benci accepts
the legend literally, and continues: "These wines were so pleasing to the palate of the barbarians,
that they were induced to quit the rich and teeming valley of the Po, to cross the Apennines,
and move in battle array against Chiusi. And it is clear that the wine which Aruns selected
for the purpose was the same as that which is produced to this day at Montepulciano. For nowhere
else in the Etruscan district can wines of equally generous quality and fiery spirit be found,
so adapted for export and capable of such long preservation."

We may smile at the historian's naïveté. Yet the fact remains that good wine of Montepulciano
can still allure barbarians of this epoch to the spot where it is grown. Of all Italian vintages,
with the exception of some rare qualities of Sicily and the Valtellina, it is, in my humble
opinion, the best. And when the time comes for Italy to develop the resources of her vineyards
upon scientific principles, Montepulciano will drive Brolio from the field and take the same
place by the side of Chianti which Volnay occupies by common Macon. It will then be quoted
upon wine-lists throughout Europe, and find its place upon the tables of rich epicures in Hyperborean
regions, and add its generous warmth to Transatlantic banquets. Even as it is now made, with
very little care bestowed on cultivation and none to speak of on selection of the grape, the
wine is rich and noble, slightly rough to a sophisticated palate, but clean in quality and
powerful and racy. It deserves the enthusiasm attributed by Redi to Bacchus:[A]--

    Fill, fill, let us all have our will!
    But with what, with what, boys, shall we fill?
    Sweet Ariadne--no, not that one--ah no;
    Fill me the manna of Montepulciano:
    Fill me a magnum and reach it me.--Gods!
    How it glides to my heart by the sweetest of roads!
    Oh, how it kisses me, tickles me, bites me!
    Oh, how my eyes loosen sweetly in tears!
    I'm ravished! I'm rapt! Heaven finds me admissible!
    Lost in an ecstasy! blinded! invisible!--
    Hearken all earth!
    We, Bacchus, in the might of our great mirth,
    To all who reverence us, are right thinkers;
    Hear, all ye drinkers!
    Give ear and give faith to the edict divine;
    Montepulciano's the King of all wine.

It is necessary, however, that our modern barbarian should travel to Montepulciano itself,
and there obtain a flask of manna or vino nobile from some trusty cellar-master. He will not
find it bottled in the inns or restaurants upon his road.

IV.

The landscape and the wine of Montepulciano are both well worth the trouble of a visit to this
somewhat inaccessible city. Yet more remains to be said about the attractions of the town itself.
In the Duomo, which was spoiled by unintelligent rebuilding at a dismal epoch of barren art,
are fragments of one of the rarest monuments of Tuscan sculpture. This is the tomb of Bartolommeo
Aragazzi. He was a native of Montepulciano, and secretary to Pope Martin V., that Papa Martino
non vale un quattrino, on whom, during his long residence in Florence, the street-boys made
their rhymes. Twelve years before his death he commissioned Donatello and Michelozzo Michelozzi,
who about that period were working together upon the monuments of Pope John XXIII. and Cardinal
Brancacci, to erect his own tomb at the enormous cost of twenty-four thousand scudi. That thirst
for immortality of fame, which inspired the humanists of the Renaissance, prompted Aragazzi
to this princely expenditure. Yet, having somehow won the hatred of his fellow-students, he
was immediately censured for excessive vanity. Lionardo Bruni makes his monument the theme
of a ferocious onslaught. Writing to Poggio Bracciolini, Bruni tells a story how, while travelling
through the country of Arezzo, he met a train of oxen dragging heavy waggons piled with marble
columns, statues, and all the necessary details of a sumptuous sepulchre. He stopped, and asked
what it all meant. Then one of the contractors for this transport, wiping the sweat from his
forehead, in utter weariness of the vexatious labour, at the last end of his temper, answered:
"May the gods destroy all poets, past, present, and future." I inquired what he had to do with
poets, and how they had annoyed him. "Just this," he replied, "that this poet, lately deceased,
a fool and windy-pated fellow, has ordered a monument for himself; and with a view to erecting
it, these marbles are being dragged to Montepulciano; but I doubt whether we shall contrive
to get them up there. The roads are too bad." "But," cried I, "do you believe that man was
a poet--that dunce who had no science, nay, nor knowledge either? who only rose above the heads
of men by vanity and doltishness?" "I don't know," he answered, "nor did I ever hear tell,
while he was alive, about his being called a poet; but his fellow-townsmen now decide he was
one; nay, if he had but left a few more moneybags, they'd swear he was a god. Anyhow, but for
his having been a poet, I would not have cursed poets in general." Whereupon, the malevolent
Bruni withdrew, and composed a scorpion-tailed oration, addressed to his friend Poggio, on
the suggested theme of "diuturnity in monuments," and false ambition. Our old friends of humanistic
learning--Cyrus, Alexander, Cæsar--meet us in these frothy paragraphs. Cambyses, Xerxes, Artaxerxes,
Darius, are thrown in to make the gruel of rhetoric "thick and slab." The whole epistle ends
in a long-drawn peroration of invective against "that excrement in human shape," who had had
the ill-luck, by pretence to scholarship, by big gains from the Papal treasury, by something
in his manners alien from the easy-going customs of the Roman Court, to rouse the rancour of
his fellow-humanists.

I have dwelt upon this episode, partly because it illustrates the peculiar thirst for glory
in the students of that time, but more especially because it casts a thin clear thread of actual
light upon the masterpiece which, having been transported with this difficulty from Donatello's
workshop, is now to be seen by all lovers of fine art, in part at least, at Montepulciano.
In part at least: the phrase is pathetic. Poor Aragazzi, who thirsted so for "diuturnity in
monuments," who had been so cruelly assaulted in the grave by humanistic jealousy, expressing
its malevolence with humanistic crudity of satire, was destined after all to be defrauded of
his well-paid tomb. The monument, a master work of Donatello and his collaborator, was duly
erected. The oxen and the contractors, it appears, had floundered through the mud of Valdichiana,
and struggled up the mountain-slopes of Montepulciano. But when the church, which this triumph
of art adorned, came to be repaired, the miracle of beauty was dismembered. The sculpture for
which Aragazzi spent his thousands of crowns, which Donatello touched with his immortalising
chisel, over which the contractors vented their curses and Bruni eased his bile; these marbles
are now visible as mere disjecta membra in a church which, lacking them, has little to detain
a traveller's haste.

On the left hand of the central door, as you enter, Aragazzi lies, in senatorial robes, asleep;
his head turned slightly to the right upon the pillow, his hands folded over his breast. Very
noble are the draperies, and dignified the deep tranquillity of slumber. Here, we say, is a
good man fallen upon sleep, awaiting resurrection. The one commanding theme of Christian sculpture,
in an age of Pagan feeling, has been adequately rendered. Bartolommeo Aragazzi, like Ilaria
del Carretto at Lucca, like the canopied doges in S. Zanipolo at Venice, like the Acciauoli
in the Florentine Certosa, like the Cardinal di Portogallo in Samminiato, is carved for us
as he had been in life, but with that life suspended, its fever all smoothed out, its agitations
over, its pettinesses dignified by death. This marmoreal repose of the once active man symbolises
for our imagination the state into which he passed four centuries ago, but in which, according
to the creed, he still abides, reserved for judgment and reincarnation. The flesh, clad with
which he walked our earth, may moulder in the vaults beneath. But it will one day rise again;
and art has here presented it imperishable to our gaze. This is how the Christian sculptors,
inspired by the majestic calm of classic art, dedicated a Christian to the genius of repose.
Among the nations of antiquity this repose of death was eternal; and being unable to conceive
of a man's body otherwise than for ever obliterated by the flames of funeral, they were perforce
led back to actual life when they would carve his portrait on a tomb. But for Christianity
the rest of the grave has ceased to be eternal. Centuries may pass, but in the end it must
be broken. Therefore art is justified in showing us the man himself in an imagined state of
sleep. Yet this imagined state of sleep is so incalculably long, and by the will of God withdrawn
from human prophecy, that the ages sweeping over the dead man before the trumpets of archangels
wake him, shall sooner wear away memorial stone than stir his slumber. It is a slumber, too,
unterrified, unentertained by dreams. Suspended animation finds no fuller symbolism than the
sculptor here presents to us in abstract form.

The boys of Montepulciano have scratched Messer Aragazzi's sleeping figure with graffiti at
their own free will. Yet they have had no power to erase the poetry of Donatello's mighty style.
That, in spite of Bruni's envy, in spite of injurious time, in spite of the still worse insult
of the modernised cathedral and the desecrated monument, embalms him in our memory and secures
for him the diuturnity for which he paid his twenty thousand crowns. Money, methinks, beholding
him, was rarely better expended on a similar ambition. And ambition of this sort, relying on
the genius of such a master to give it wings for perpetuity of time, is, pace Lionardo Bruni,
not ignoble.

Opposite the figure of Messer Aragazzi are two square bas-reliefs from the same monument, fixed
against piers of the nave. One represents Madonna enthroned among worshippers; members, it
may be supposed, of Aragazzi's household. Three angelic children, supporting the child Christ
upon her lap, complete that pyramidal form of composition which Fra Bartolommeo was afterwards
to use with such effect in painting. The other bas-relief shows a group of grave men and youths,
clasping hands with loveliest interlacement; the placid sentiment of human fellowship translated
into harmonies of sculptured form. Children below run up to touch their knees, and reach out
boyish arms to welcome them. Two young men, with half-draped busts and waving hair blown off
their foreheads, anticipate the type of adolescence which Andrea del Sarto perfected in his
S. John. We might imagine that this masterly panel was intended to represent the arrival of
Messer Aragazzi in his home. It is a scene from the domestic life of the dead man, duly subordinated
to the recumbent figure, which, when the monument was perfect, would have dominated the whole
composition.

Nothing in the range of Donatello's work surpasses these two bas-reliefs for harmonies of line
and grouping, for choice of form, for beauty of expression, and for smoothness of surface-working.
The marble is of great delicacy, and is wrought to a wax-like surface. At the high altar are
three more fragments from the mutilated tomb. One is a long low frieze of children bearing
garlands, which probably formed the base of Aragazzi's monument, and now serves for a predella.
The remaining pieces are detached statues of Fortitude and Faith. The former reminds us of
Donatello's S. George; the latter is twisted into a strained attitude, full of character, but
lacking grace. What the effect of these emblematic figures would have been when harmonised
by the architectural proportions of the sepulchre, the repose of Aragazzi on his sarcophagus,
the suavity of the two square panels and the rhythmic beauty of the frieze, it is not easy
to conjecture. But rudely severed from their surroundings, and exposed in isolation, one at
each side of the altar, they leave an impression of awkward discomfort on the memory. A certain
hardness, peculiar to the Florentine manner, is felt in them. But this quality may have been
intended by the sculptors for the sake of contrast with what is eminently graceful, peaceful,
and melodious in the other fragments of the ruined masterpiece.

V.

At a certain point in the main street, rather more than half way from the Albergo del Marzocco
to the piazza, a tablet has been let into the wall upon the left-hand side. This records the
fact that here in 1454 was born Angelo Ambrogini, the special glory of Montepulciano, the greatest
classical scholar and the greatest Italian poet of the fifteenth century. He is better known
in the history of literature as Poliziano, or Politianus, a name he took from his native city,
when he came, a marvellous boy, at the age of ten, to Florence, and joined the household of
Lorenzo de' Medici. He had already claims upon Lorenzo's hospitality. For his father, Benedetto,
by adopting the cause of Piero de' Medici in Montepulciano, had exposed himself to bitter feuds
and hatred of his fellow-citizens. To this animosity of party warfare he fell a victim a few
years previously. We only know that he was murdered, and that he left a helpless widow with
five children, of whom Angelo was the eldest. The Ambrogini or Cini were a family of some importance
in Montepulciano; and their dwelling-house is a palace of considerable size. From its eastern
windows the eye can sweep that vast expanse of country, embracing the lakes of Thrasymene and
Chiusi, which has been already described. What would have happened, we wonder, if Messer Benedetto,
the learned jurist, had not espoused the Medicean cause and embroiled himself with murderous
antagonists? Would the little Angelo have grown up in this quiet town, and practised law, and
lived and died a citizen of Montepulciano? In that case the lecture-rooms of Florence would
never have echoed to the sonorous hexameters of the "Rusticus" and "Ambra." Italian literature
would have lacked the "Stanze" and "Orfeo." European scholarship would have been defrauded
of the impulse given to it by the "Miscellanea." The study of Roman law would have missed those
labours on the Pandects, with which the name of Politian is honourably associated. From the
Florentine society of the fifteenth century would have disappeared the commanding central figure
of humanism, which now contrasts dramatically with the stern monastic Prior of S. Mark. Benedetto's
tragic death gave Poliziano to Italy and to posterity.

VI.

Those who have a day to spare at Montepulciano can scarcely spend it better than in an excursion
to Pienza and San Quirico. Leaving the city by the road which takes a westerly direction, the
first object of interest is the Church of San Biagio, placed on a fertile plateau immediately
beneath the ancient acropolis. It was erected by Antonio di San Gallo in 1518, and is one of
the most perfect specimens existing of the sober classical style. The Church consists of a
Greek square, continued at the east end into a semicircular tribune, surmounted by a central
cupola, and flanked by a detached bell-tower, ending in a pyramidal spire. The whole is built
of solid yellow travertine, a material which, by its warmth of colour, is pleasing to the eye,
and mitigates the mathematical severity of the design. Upon entering, we feel at once what
Alberti called the music of this style; its large and simple harmonies, depending for effect
upon sincerity of plan and justice of balance. The square masses of the main building, the
projecting cornices and rounded tribune, meet together and soar up into the cupola; while the
grand but austere proportions of the arches and the piers compose a symphony of perfectly concordant
lines. The music is grave and solemn, architecturally expressed in terms of measured space
and outlined symmetry. The whole effect is that of one thing pleasant to look upon, agreeably
appealing to our sense of unity, charming us by grace and repose; not stimulative nor suggestive,
not multiform nor mysterious. We are reminded of the temples imagined by Francesco Colonna,
and figured in his Hypnerotomachia Poliphili. One of these shrines has, we feel, come into
actual existence here; and the religious ceremonies for which it is adapted are not those of
the Christian worship. Some more primitive, less spiritual rites, involving less of tragic
awe and deep-wrought symbolism, should be here performed. It is better suited for Polifilo's
lustration by Venus Physizoe than for the mass on Easter morning. And in this respect, the
sentiment of the architecture is exactly faithful to that mood of religious feeling which appeared
in Italy under the influences of the classical revival--when the essential doctrines of Christianity
were blurred with Pantheism; when Jehovah became Jupiter Optimus Maximus; and Jesus was the
Heros of Calvary, and nuns were Virgines Vestales. In literature this mood often strikes us
as insincere and artificial. But it admitted of realisation and showed itself to be profoundly
felt in architecture.

After leaving Madonna di San Biagio, the road strikes at once into an open country, expanding
on the right towards the woody ridge of Monte Fallonica, on the left toward Cetona and Radicofani,
with Monte Amiata full in front--its double crest and long volcanic slope recalling Etna; the
belt of embrowned forest on its flank, made luminous by sunlight. Far away stretches the Sienese
Maremma; Siena dimly visible upon her gentle hill; and still beyond, the pyramid of Volterra,
huge and cloud-like, piled against the sky. The road, as is almost invariable in this district,
keeps to the highest line of ridges, winding much, and following the dimplings of the earthy
hills. Here and there a solitary castello, rusty with old age, and turned into a farm, juts
into picturesqueness from some point of vantage on a mound surrounded with green tillage. But
soon the dull and intolerable creta, ash-grey earth, without a vestige of vegetation, furrowed
by rain, and desolately breaking into gullies, swallows up variety and charm. It is difficult
to believe that this creta of Southern Tuscany, which has all the appearance of barrenness,
and is a positive deformity in the landscape, can be really fruitful. Yet we are frequently
being told that it only needs assiduous labour to render it enormously productive.

When we reached Pienza we were already in the middle of a country without cultivation, abandoned
to the marl. It is a little place, perched upon the ledge of a long sliding hill, which commands
the vale of Orcia; Monte Amiata soaring in aërial majesty beyond. Its old name was Cosignano.
But it had the honour of giving birth to Æneas Sylvius Piccolomini, who, when he was elected
to the Papacy and had assumed the title of Pius II., determined to transform and dignify his
native village, and to call it after his own name. From that time forward Cosignano has been
known as Pienza.

Pius II. succeeded effectually in leaving his mark upon the town. And this forms its main interest
at the present time. We see in Pienza how the most active-minded and intelligent man of his
epoch, the representative genius of Italy in the middle of the fifteenth century, commanding
vast wealth and the Pontifical prestige, worked out his whim of city-building. The experiment
had to be made upon a small scale; for Pienza was then and was destined to remain a village.
Yet here, upon this miniature piazza--in modern as in ancient Italy the meeting-point of civic
life, the forum--we find a cathedral, a palace of the bishop, a palace of the feudal lord,
and a palace of the commune, arranged upon a well-considered plan, and executed after one design
in a consistent style. The religious, municipal, signorial, and ecclesiastical functions of
the little town are centralised around the open market-place, on which the common people transacted
business and discussed affairs. Pius entrusted the realization of his scheme to a Florentine
architect; whether Bernardo Rossellino, or a certain Bernardo di Lorenzo, is still uncertain.
The same artist, working in the flat manner of Florentine domestic architecture, with rusticated
basements, rounded windows and bold projecting cornices--the manner which is so nobly illustrated
by the Rucellai and Strozzi palaces at Florence--executed also for Pius the monumental Palazzo
Piccolomini at Siena. It is a great misfortune for the group of buildings he designed at Pienza,
that they are huddled together in close quarters on a square too small for their effect. A
want of space is peculiarly injurious to the architecture of this date, 1462, which, itself
geometrical and spatial, demands a certain harmony and liberty in its surroundings, a proportion
between the room occupied by each building and the masses of the edifice. The style is severe
and prosaic. Those charming episodes and accidents of fancy, in which the Gothic style and
the style of the earlier Lombard Renaissance abounded, are wholly wanting to the rigid, mathematical,
hard-headed genius of the Florentine quattrocento. Pienza, therefore, disappoints us. Its heavy
palace frontispieces shut the spirit up in a tight box. We seem unable to breathe, and lack
that element of life and picturesqueness which the splendid retinues of nobles in the age of
Pinturicchio might have added to the now forlorn Piazza.

Yet the material is a fine warm travertine, mellowing to dark red, brightening to golden, with
some details, especially the tower of the Palazzo Communale, in red brick. This building, by
the way, is imitated in miniature from that of Florence. The cathedral is a small church of
three aisles, equally high, ending in what the French would call a chevet. Pius had observed
this plan of construction somewhere in Austria, and commanded his architect, Bernardo, to observe
it in his plan. He was attracted by the facilities for window-lighting which it offered; and
what is very singular, he provided by the Bull of his foundation for keeping the walls of the
interior free from frescoes and other coloured decorations. The result is that, though the
interior effect is pleasing, the church presents a frigid aspect to eyes familiarised with
warmth of tone in other buildings of that period. The details of the columns and friezes are
classical; and the façade, strictly corresponding to the structure, and very honest in its
decorative elements, is also of the earlier Renaissance style. But the vaulting and some of
the windows are pointed.

The Palazzo Piccolomini, standing at the right hand of the Duomo, is a vast square edifice.
The walls are flat and even, pierced at regular intervals with windows, except upon the south-west
side, where the rectangular design is broken by a noble double Loggiata, gallery rising above
gallery--serene curves of arches, grandly proportioned columns, massive balustrades, a spacious
corridor, a roomy vaulting--opening out upon the palace garden, and offering fair prospect
over the wooded heights of Castiglione and Rocca d'Orcia, up to Radicofani and shadowy Amiata.
It was in these double tiers of galleries, in the garden beneath and in the open inner square
of the palazzo, that the great life of Italian aristocracy displayed itself. Four centuries
ago these spaces, now so desolate in their immensity, echoed to the tread of serving-men, the
songs of pages; horse-hooves struck upon the pavement of the court; spurs jingled on the staircases;
the brocaded trains of ladies sweeping from their chambers rustled on the marbles of the loggia;
knights let their hawks fly from the garden-parapets; cardinals and abbreviators gathered round
the doors from which the Pope would issue, when he rose from his siesta to take the cool of
evening in those airy colonnades. How impossible it is to realise that scene amid this solitude!
The palazzo still belongs to the Piccolomini family. But it has fallen into something worse
than ruin--the squalor of half-starved existence, shorn of all that justified its grand proportions.
Partition-walls have been run up across its halls to meet the requirements of our contracted
modern customs. Nothing remains of the original decorations except one carved chimney-piece,
an emblazoned shield, and a frescoed portrait of the founder. All movable treasures have been
made away with. And yet the carved heraldics of the exterior, the coat of Piccolomini, "argent,
on a cross azure five crescents or," the Papal ensigns, keys, and tiara, and the monogram of
Pius, prove that this country dwelling of a Pope must once have been rich in details befitting
its magnificence. With the exception of the very small portion reserved for the Signori, when
they visit Pienza, the palace has become a granary for country produce in a starveling land.
There was one redeeming point about it to my mind. That was the handsome young man, with earnest
Tuscan eyes and a wonderfully sweet voice, the servant of the Piccolomini family, who lives
here with his crippled father, and who showed us over the apartments.

We left Pienza and drove on to S. Quirico, through the same wrinkled wilderness of marl; wasteful,
uncultivated, bare to every wind that blows. A cruel blast was sweeping from the sea, and Monte
Amiata darkened with rain clouds. Still the pictures, which formed themselves at intervals,
as we wound along these barren ridges, were very fair to look upon, especially one, not far
from S. Quirico. It had for foreground a stretch of tilth--olive-trees, honeysuckle hedges,
and cypresses. Beyond soared Amiata in all its breadth and blue air-blackness, bearing on its
mighty flanks the broken cliffs and tufted woods of Castiglione and the Rocca d'Orcia; eagles'
nests emerging from a fertile valley-champaign, into which the eye was led for rest. It so
chanced that a band of sunlight, escaping from filmy clouds, touched this picture with silvery
greys and soft greens--a suffusion of vaporous radiance, which made it for one moment a Claude
landscape.

S. Quirico was keeping festa. The streets were crowded with healthy handsome men and women
from the contado. This village lies on the edge of a great oasis in the Sienese desert--an
oasis, formed by the waters of the Orcia and Asso sweeping down to join Ombrone, and stretching
on to Montalcino. We put up at the sign of the "Two Hares," where a notable housewife gave
us a dinner of all we could desire; frittata di cervelle, good fish, roast lamb stuffed with
rosemary, salad and cheese, with excellent wine and black coffee, at the rate of three lire a head.

The attraction of S. Quirico is its gem-like little collegiata, a Lombard church of the ninth
century, with carved portals of the thirteenth. It is built of golden travertine; some details
in brown sandstone. The western and southern portals have pillars resting on the backs of lions.
On the western side these pillars are four slender columns, linked by snake-like ligatures.
On the southern side they consist of two carved figures--possibly S. John and the Archangel
Michael. There is great freedom and beauty in these statues, as also in the lions which support
them, recalling the early French and German manner. In addition, one finds the usual Lombard
grotesques--two sea-monsters, biting each other; harpy-birds; a dragon with a twisted tail;
little men grinning and squatting in adaptation to coigns and angles of the windows. The toothed
and chevron patterns of the north are quaintly blent with rude acanthus scrolls and classical
egg-mouldings. Over the western porch is a Gothic rose window. Altogether this church must
be reckoned one of the most curious specimens of that hybrid architecture, fusing and appropriating
different manners, which perplexes the student in Central Italy. It seems strangely out of
place in Tuscany. Yet, if what one reads of Toscanella, a village between Viterbo and Orbetello,
be true, there exist examples of a similar fantastic Lombard style even lower down.

The interior was most disastrously gutted and "restored" in 1731: its open wooden roof masked
by a false stucco vaulting. A few relics, spared by the eighteenth century Vandals, show that
the church was once rich in antique curiosities. A marble knight in armour lies on his back,
half hidden by the pulpit stairs. And in the choir are half a dozen rarely beautiful panels
of tarsia, executed in a bold style and on a large scale. One design--a man throwing his face
back, and singing, while he plays a mandoline; with long thick hair and fanciful berretta;
behind him a fine line of cypresses and other trees--struck me as singularly lovely. In another
I noticed a branch of peach, broad leaves and ripe fruit, not only drawn with remarkable grace
and power, but so modelled as to stand out with the roundness of reality.

The whole drive of three hours back to Montepulciano was one long banquet of inimitable distant
views. Next morning, having to take farewell of the place, we climbed to the Castello, or arx
of the old city! It is a ruined spot, outside the present walls, upon the southern slope, where
there is now a farm, and a fair space of short sheep-cropped turf, very green and grassy, and
gemmed with little pink geraniums as in England in such places. The walls of the old castle,
overgrown with ivy, are broken down to their foundations. This may possibly have been done
when Montepulciano was dismantled by the Sienese in 1232. At that date the Commune succumbed
to its more powerful neighbours. The half of its inhabitants were murdered, and its fortifications
were destroyed. Such episodes are common enough in the history of that internecine struggle
for existence between the Italian municipalities, which preceded the more famous strife of
Guelfs and Ghibellines. Stretched upon the smooth turf of the Castello, we bade adieu to the
divine landscape bathed in light and mountain air--to Thrasymene and Chiusi and Cetona; to
Amiata, Pienza, and S. Quirico; to Montalcino and the mountains of Volterra; to Siena and Cortona;
and, closer to Monte Fallonica, Madonna di Biagio, the house-roofs and the Palazzo tower of
Montepulciano.

FOOTNOTES:

[A] From Leigh Hunt's Translation.

SPRING WANDERINGS.

ANA-CAPRI.

The storm-clouds at this season, though it is the bloom of May, are daily piled in sulky or
menacing masses over Vesuvius and the Abruzzi, frothing out their curls of moulded mist across
the bay, and climbing the heavens with toppling castle towers and domes of alabaster.

We made the most of a tranquil afternoon, where there was an armistice of storm, to climb the
bluff of Mount Solaro. A ruined fort caps that limestone bulwark; and there we lay together,
drinking the influences of sea, sun, and wind. Immeasurably deep beneath us plunged the precipices,
deep, deep descending to a bay where fisher boats were rocking, diminished to a scale that
made the fishermen in them invisible. Low down above the waters wheeled white gulls, and higher
up the hawks and ospreys of the cliff sailed out of sunlight into shadow. Immitigable strength
is in the moulding of this limestone, and sharp, clear definiteness marks yon clothing of scant
brushwood where the fearless goats are browsing. The sublime of sculpturesque in crag structure
is here, refined and modulated by the sweetness of sea distances. For the air came pure and
yielding to us over the unfooted sea; and at the basement of those fortress-cliffs the sea
was dreaming in its caves; and far away, to east and south and west, soft light was blent with
mist upon the surface of the shimmering waters.

The distinction between prospects viewed from a mountain overlooking a great plain, or viewed
from heights that, like this, dominate the sea, principally lies in this: that while the former
only offer cloud shadows cast upon the fields below our feet, in the latter these shadows are
diversified with cloud reflections. This gives superiority in qualities of colour, variety
of tone, and luminous effect to the sea, compensating in some measure for the lack of those
associations which render the outlook over a wide extent of populated land so thrilling. The
emergence of towered cities into sunlight at the skirts of moving shadows, the liquid lapse
of rivers half disclosed by windings among woods, the upturned mirrors of unruffled lakes,
are wanting to the sea. For such episodes the white sails of vessels, with all their wistfulness
of going to and fro on the mysterious deep, are but a poor exchange. Yet the sea-lover may
justify his preference by appealing to the beauty of empurpled shadows, toned by amethyst or
opal or shining with violet light, reflected from the clouds that cross and find in those dark
shields a mirror. There are suggestions, too, of immensity, of liberty, of action, presented
by the boundless horizons and the changeful changeless tracts of ocean which no plain possesses.

It was nigh upon sunset when we descended to Ana-Capri. That evening the clouds assembled suddenly.
The armistice of storm was broken. They were terribly blue, and the sea grew dark as steel
beneath them, till the moment when the sun's lip reached the last edge of the waters. Then
a courier of rosy flame sent forth from him passed swift across the gulf, touching, where it
trod, the waves with accidental fire. The messenger reached Naples; and in a moment, as by
some diabolical illumination, the sinful city kindled into light like glowing charcoal. From
Posilippo on the left, along the palaces of the Chiaja, up to S. Elmo on the hill, past Santa
Lucia, down on the Marinella, beyond Portici, beyond Torre del Greco, where Vesuvius towered
up aloof, an angry mount of amethystine gloom, the conflagration spread and reached Pompeii,
and dwelt on Torre dell'Annunziata. Stationary, lurid, it smouldered while the day died slowly.
The long, densely populated sea-line from Pozzuoli to Castellammare burned and smoked with
intensest incandescence, sending a glare of fiery mist against the threatening blue behind,
and fringing with pomegranate-coloured blots the water where no light now lingered. It is difficult
to bend words to the use required. The scene in spite of natural suavity and grace, had become
like Dante's first glimpse of the City of Dis--like Sodom and Gomorrah when fire from heaven
descended on their towers before they crumbled into dust.

FROM CAPRI TO ISCHIA.

After this, for several days, Libeccio blew harder. No boats could leave or come to Capri.
From the piazza parapet we saw the wind scooping the surface of the waves, and flinging spray-fleeces
in sheets upon the churning water. As they broke on Cape Campanella, the rollers climbed in
foam--how many feet?--and blotted out the olive trees above the headland. The sky was always
dark with hanging clouds and masses of low-lying vapour, very moist, but scarcely raining--lightning
without thunder in the night.

Such weather is unexpected in the middle month of May, especially when the olives are blackened
by December storms, and the orange-trees despoiled of foliage, and the tendrils of the vines
yellow with cold. The walnut-trees have shown no sign of making leaves. Only the figs seem
to have suffered little.

It had been settled that we should start upon the first seafaring dawn for Ischia or Sorrento,
according as the wind might set; and I was glad when, early one morning, the captain of the
Serena announced a moderate sirocco. When we reached the little quay we found the surf of the
libeccio still rolling heavily into the gulf. A gusty south-easter crossed it, tearing spray-crests
from the swell as it went plunging onward. The sea was rough enough; but we made fast sailing,
our captain steering with a skill which it was beautiful to watch, his five oarsmen picturesquely
grouped beneath the straining sail. The sea slapped and broke from time to time on our windward
quarter, drenching the boat with brine; and now and then her gunwale scooped into the shoulder
of a wave as she shot sidling up it. Meanwhile enormous masses of leaden-coloured clouds formed
above our heads and on the sea-line; but these were always shifting in the strife of winds,
and the sun shone through them petulantly. As we climbed the rollers, or sank into their trough,
the outline of the bay appeared in glimpses, shyly revealed, suddenly withdrawn from sight;
the immobility and majesty of mountains contrasted with the weltering waste of water round
us--now blue and garish where the sunlight fell, now shrouded in squally rain-storms, and then
again sullen beneath a vaporous canopy. Each of these vignettes was photographed for one brief
second on the brain, and swallowed by the hurling drift of billows. The painter's art could
but ill have rendered that changeful colour in the sea, passing from tawny cloud-reflections
and surfaces of glowing violet to bright blue or impenetrable purple flecked with boiling foam,
according as a light-illuminated or a shadowed facet of the moving mass was turned to sight.

Half-way across the gulf the sirocco lulled; the sail was lowered, and we had to make the rest
of the passage by rowing. Under the lee of Ischia we got into comparatively quiet water; though
here the beautiful Italian sea was yellowish green with churned-up sand, like an unripe orange.
We passed the castle on its rocky island, with the domed church which has been so often painted
in gouache pictures through the last two centuries, and soon after noon we came to Casamicciola.

LA PICCOLA SENTINELLA.

Casamicciola is a village on the north side of the island, in its centre, where the visitors
to the mineral baths of Ischia chiefly congregate. One of its old-established inns is called
La Piccola Sentinella. The first sight on entrance is an open gallery, with a pink wall on
which bloom magnificent cactuses, sprays of thick-clustering scarlet and magenta flowers. This
is a rambling house, built in successive stages against a hill, with terraces and verandahs
opening on unexpected gardens to the back and front. Beneath its long irregular façade there
spreads a wilderness of orange-trees and honeysuckles and roses, verbenas, geraniums and mignonette,
snapdragons, gazenias and stocks, exceeding bright and fragrant, with the green slopes of Monte
Epomeo for a background and Vesuvius for far distance. There are wonderful bits of detail in
this garden. One dark, thick-foliaged olive, I remember, leaning from the tufa over a lizard-haunted
wall, feathered waist-high in huge acanthus-leaves. The whole rich orchard ground of Casamicciola
is dominated by Monte Epomeo, the extinct volcano which may be called the raison d'être of
Ischia; for this island is nothing but a mountain lifted by the energy of fire from the sea-basement.
Its fantastic peaks and ridges, sulphur-coloured, dusty grey, and tawny, with brushwood in
young leaf upon the cloven flanks, form a singular pendant to the austere but more artistically
modelled limestone crags of Capri. Not two islands that I know, within so short a space of
sea, offer two pictures so different in style and quality of loveliness. The inhabitants are
equally distinct in type. Here, in spite of what De Musset wrote somewhat affectedly about
the peasant girls--

    Ischia! c'est là qu'on a des yeux,
    C'est là qu'un corsage amoureux
                Serre la hanche.
    Sur un bas rouge bien tiré
    Brille, sous le jupon doré,
                La mule blanche--

in spite of these lines I did not find the Ischia women eminent, as those of Capri are, for
beauty. But the young men have fine, loose, faun-like figures, and faces that would be strikingly
handsome but for too long and prominent noses. They are a singular race, graceful in movement.

Evening is divine in Ischia. From the topmost garden terrace of the inn one looks across the
sea toward Terracina, Gaeta, and those descending mountain buttresses, the Phlegræan plains
and the distant snows of the Abruzzi. Rain-washed and luminous, the sunset sky held Hesper
trembling in a solid green of beryl. Fireflies flashed among the orange blossoms. Far away
in the obscurity of eastern twilight glared the smouldering cone of Vesuvius--a crimson blot
upon the darkness--a Cyclop's eye, bloodshot and menacing.

The company in the Piccola Sentinella, young and old, were decrepit, with an odd, rheumatic,
shrivelled look upon them. The dining-room reminded me, as certain rooms are apt to do, of
a ship's saloon. I felt as though I had got into the cabin of the Flying Dutchman, and that
all these people had been sitting there at meat a hundred years, through storm and shine, for
ever driving onward over immense waves in an enchanted calm.

ISCHIA AND FORIO.

One morning we drove along the shore, up hill, and down, by the Porto d'Ischia to the town
and castle. This country curiously combines the qualities of Corfu and Catania. The near distance,
so richly cultivated, with the large volcanic slopes of Monte Epomeo rising from the sea, is
like Catania. Then, across the gulf, are the bold outlines and snowy peaks of the Abruzzi,
recalling Albanian ranges. Here, as in Sicily, the old lava is overgrown with prickly pear
and red valerian. Mesembrianthemums--I must be pardoned this word; for I cannot omit those
fleshy-leaved creepers, with their wealth of gaudy blossoms, shaped like sea anemones, coloured
like strawberry and pine-apple cream-ices--mesembrianthemums, then, tumble in torrents from
the walls, and large-cupped white convolvuluses curl about the hedges. The Castle Rock, with
Capri's refined sky-coloured outline relieving its hard profile on the horizon, is one of those
exceedingly picturesque objects just too theatrical to be artistic. It seems ready-made for
a back scene in Masaniello, and cries out to the chromo-lithographer, "Come and make the most
of me!" Yet this morning all things, in sea, earth, and sky, were so delicately tinted and
bathed in pearly light that it was difficult to be critical.

In the afternoon we took the other side of the island, driving through Lacca to Forio. One
gets right round the bulk of Epomeo, and looks up into a weird region called Le Falange, where
white lava streams have poured in two broad irregular torrents among broken precipices. Florio
itself is placed at the end of a flat headland, boldly thrust into the sea; and its furthest
promontory bears a pilgrimage church, intensely white and glaring.

There is something arbitrary in the memories we make of places casually visited, dependent
as they are upon our mood at the moment, or on an accidental interweaving of impressions which
the genius loci blends for us. Of Forio two memories abide with me. The one is of a young woman,
with very fair hair, in a light blue dress, standing beside an older woman in a garden. There
was a flourishing pomegranate-tree above them. The whiteness and the dreamy smile of the young
woman seemed strangely out of tune with her strong-toned southern surroundings. I could have
fancied her a daughter of some moist north-western isle of Scandinavian seas. My other memory
is of a lad, brown, handsome, powerfully-featured, thoughtful, lying curled up in the sun upon
a sort of ladder in his house-court, profoundly meditating. He had a book in his hand, and
his finger still marked the place where he had read. He looked as though a Columbus or a Campanella
might emerge from his earnest, fervent, steadfast adolescence. Driving rapidly along, and leaving
Forio in all probability for ever, I kept wondering whether these two lives, discerned as though
in vision, would meet--whether she was destined to be his evil genius, whether posterity would
hear of him and journey to his birthplace in this world-neglected Forio. Such reveries are
futile. Yet who entirely resists them?

MONTE EPOMEO.

About three on the morning which divides the month of May into two equal parts I woke and saw
the waning moon right opposite my window, stayed in her descent upon the slope of Epomeo. Soon
afterwards Christian called me, and we settled to ascend the mountain. Three horses and a stout
black donkey, with their inevitable grooms, were ordered; and we took for guide a lovely faun-like
boy, goat-faced, goat-footed, with gentle manners and pliant limbs swaying beneath the breath
of impulse. He was called Giuseppe.

The way leads past the mineral baths and then strikes uphill, at first through lanes cut deep
in the black lava. The trees met almost overhead. It is like Devonshire, except that one half
hopes to see tropical foxgloves with violet bells and downy leaves sprouting among the lush
grasses and sweet-scented ferns upon those gloomy, damp, warm walls. After this we skirted
a thicket of arbutus, and came upon the long volcanic ridge, with divinest outlook over Procida
and Miseno toward Vesuvius. Then once more we had to dive into brown sandstone gullies, extremely
steep, where the horses almost burst their girths in scrambling, and the grooms screamed, exasperating
their confusion with encouragement and curses. Straight or bending like a willow wand, Giuseppe
kept in front. I could have imagined he had stepped to life from one of Lionardo's fancy-sprighted
studies.

After this fashion we gained the spine of mountain which composes Ischia--the smooth ascending
ridge that grows up from those eastern waves to what was once the apex of fire-vomiting Inarime,
and breaks in precipices westward, a ruin of gulfed lava, tortured by the violence of pent
Typhoeus. Under a vast umbrella pine we dismounted, rested, and saw Capri. Now the road skirts
slanting-wise along the further flank of Epomeo, rising by muddy earth-heaps and sandstone
hollows to the quaint pinnacles which build the summit. There is no inconsiderable peril in
riding over this broken ground; for the soil crumbles away, and the ravines open downward,
treacherously masked with brushwood.

On Epomeo's topmost cone a chapel dedicated to S. Niccolo da Bari, the Italian patron of seamen,
has been hollowed from the rock. Attached to it is the dwelling of two hermits, subterranean,
with long dark corridors and windows opening on the western seas. Church and hermitage alike
are scooped, with slight expenditure of mason's skill, from solid mountain. The windows are
but loopholes, leaning from which the town of Forio is seen, 2500 feet below; and the jagged
precipices of the menacing Falange toss their contorted horror forth to sea and sky. Through
gallery and grotto we wound in twilight under a monk's guidance, and came at length upon the
face of the crags above Casamicciola. A few steps upward, cut like a ladder in the stone, brought
us to the topmost peak--a slender spire of soft, yellowish tufa. It reminded me (with differences)
of the way one climbs the spire at Strasburg, and stands upon that temple's final crocket,
with nothing but a lightning conductor to steady swimming senses. Different indeed are the
views unrolled beneath the peak of Epomeo and the pinnacle of Strasburg! Vesuvius, with the
broken lines of Procida, Miseno, and Lago Fusaro for foreground; the sculpturesque beauty of
Capri, buttressed in everlasting calm upon the waves; the Phlegræan plains and champaign of
Volturno, stretching between smooth seas and shadowy hills; the mighty sweep of Naples' bay;
all merged in blue; aërial, translucent, exquisitely frail. In this ethereal fabric of azure
the most real of realities, the most solid of substances, seem films upon a crystal sphere.

The hermit produced some flasks of amber-coloured wine from his stores in the grotto. These
we drank, lying full-length upon the tufa in the morning sunlight. The panorama of sea, sky,
and long-drawn lines of coast, breathless, without a ripple or a taint of cloud, spread far
and wide around us. Our horses and donkey cropped what little grass, blent with bitter herbage,
grew on that barren summit. Their grooms helped us out with the hermit's wine, and turned to
sleep face downward. The whole scene was very quiet, islanded in immeasurable air. Then we
asked the boy, Giuseppe, whether he could guide us on foot down the cliffs of Monte Epomeo
to Casamicciola. This he was willing and able to do; for he told me that he had spent many
months each year upon the hill-side, tending goats. When rough weather came, he wrapped himself
in a blanket from the snow that falls and melts upon the ledges. In summer time he basked the
whole day long, and slept the calm ambrosial nights away. Something of this free life was in
the burning eyes, long clustering dark hair, and smooth brown bosom of the faun-like creature.
His graceful body had the brusque, unerring movement of the goats he shepherded. Human thought
and emotion seemed a-slumber in this youth who had grown one with nature. As I watched his
careless incarnate loveliness I remembered lines from an old Italian poem of romance, describing
a dweller of the forest, who

    Haunteth the woodland aye 'neath verdurous shade,
    Eateth wild fruit, drinketh of running stream;
    And such-like is his nature, as 'tis said,
    That ever weepeth he when clear skies gleam,
    Seeing of storms and rain he then hath dread,
    And feareth lest the sun's heat fail for him;
    But when on high hurl winds and clouds together,
    Full glad is he and waiteth for fair weather.

Giuseppe led us down those curious volcanic balze, where the soil is soft as marl, with tints
splashed on it of pale green and rose and orange, and a faint scent in it of sulphur. They
break away into wild chasms, where rivulets begin; and here the narrow watercourses made for
us plain going. The turf beneath our feet was starred with cyclamens and wavering anemones.
At last we reached the chestnut woods, and so by winding paths descended on the village. Giuseppe
told me, as we walked, that in a short time he would be obliged to join the army. He contemplated
this duty with a dim and undefined dislike. Nor could I, too, help dreading and misliking it
for him. The untamed, gentle creature, who knew so little but his goats as yet, whose nights
had been passed from childhood à la belle étoile, whose limbs had never been cumbered with
broadcloth or belt--for him to be shut up in the barrack of some Lombard city, packed in white
conscript's sacking, drilled, taught to read and write, and weighted with the knapsack and
the musket! There was something lamentable in the prospect. But such is the burden of man's
life, of modern life especially. United Italy demands of her children that by this discipline
they should be brought into that harmony which builds a nation out of diverse elements.

FROM ISCHIA TO NAPLES.

Ischia showed a new aspect on the morning of our departure. A sea-mist passed along the skirts
of the island, and rolled in heavy masses round the peaks of Monte Epomeo, slowly condensing
into summer clouds, and softening each outline with a pearly haze, through which shone emerald
glimpses of young vines and fig-trees.

We left in a boat with four oarsmen for Pozzuoli. For about an hour the breeze carried us well,
while Ischia behind grew ever lovelier, soft as velvet, shaped like a gem. The mist had become
a great white luminous cloud--not dense and alabastrine, like the clouds of thunder; but filmy,
tender, comparable to the atmosphere of Dante's moon. Porpoises and sea-gulls played and fished
about our bows, dividing the dark brine in spray. The mountain distances were drowned in bluish
vapour--Vesuvius quite invisible. About noon the air grew clearer, and Capri reared her fortalice
of sculptured rock, aërially azure, into liquid ether. I know not what effect of atmosphere
or light it is that lifts an island from the sea by interposing that thin edge of lustrous
white between it and the water. But this phenomenon to-day was perfectly exhibited. Like a
mirage on the wilderness, like Fata Morgana's palace ascending from the deep, the pure and
noble vision stayed suspense 'twixt heaven and ocean. At the same time the breeze failed, and
we rowed slowly between Procida and Capo Miseno--a space in old-world history athrong with
Cæsar's navies. When we turned the point, and came in sight of Baiæ, the wind freshened and
took us flying into Pozzuoli. The whole of this coast has been spoiled by the recent upheaval
of Monte Nuovo with its lava floods and cindery deluges. Nothing remains to justify its fame
among the ancient Romans and the Neapolitans of Boccaccio's and Pontano's age. It is quite
wrecked, beyond the power even of hendecasyllables to bring again its breath of beauty:

    Mecum si sapies, Gravina, mecum
    Baias, et placidos coles recessus,
    Quos ipsæ et veneres colunt, et illa
    Quæ mentes hominum regit voluptas.
    Hic vina et choreæ jocique regnant,
    Regnant et charites facetiæque.
    Has sedes amor, has colit cupido.
    Hic passim juvenes puellulæque
    Ludunt, et tepidis aquis lavantur,
    Coenantque et dapibus leporibusque
    Miscent delitias venustiores:
    Miscent gaudia et osculationes,
    Atque una sociis toris foventur,
    Has te ad delitias vocant camoenæ;
    Invitat mare, myrteumque littus;
    Invitaut volucres canoræ, et ipse
    Gaurus pampineas parat corollas.[B]

At Pozzuoli we dined in the Albergo del Ponte di Caligola (Heaven save the mark!), and drank
Falernian wine of modern and indifferent vintage. Then Christian hired two open carriages for
Naples. He and I sat in the second. In the first we placed the two ladies of our party. They
had a large, fat driver. Just after we had all passed the gate a big fellow rushed up, dragged
the corpulent coachman from his box, pulled out a knife, and made a savage thrust at the man's
stomach. At the same moment a guardia-porta, with drawn cutlass, interposed and struck between
the combatants. They were separated. Their respective friends assembled in two jabbering crowds,
and the whole party, uttering vociferous objurgations, marched off, as I imagined, to the watch-house.
A very shabby lazzarone, without more ado, sprang on the empty box, and we made haste for Naples.
Being only anxious to get there, and not at all curious about the squabble which had deprived
us of our fat driver, I relapsed into indifference when I found that neither of the men to
whose lot we had fallen was desirous of explaining the affair. It was sufficient cause for
self-congratulation that no blood had been shed, and that the Procuratore del Rè would not
require our evidence.

The Grotta di Posilippo was a sight of wonder, with the afternoon sun slanting on its festoons
of creeping plants above the western entrance--the gas lamps, dust, huge carts, oxen, and contadini
in its subterranean darkness--and then the sudden revelation of the bay and city as we jingled
out into the summery air again by Virgil's tomb.

NIGHT AT POMPEII.

On to Pompeii in the clear sunset, falling very lightly upon mountains, islands, little ports,
and indentations of the bay.

From the railway station we walked above half a mile to the Albergo del Sole under a lucid
heaven of aqua-marine colour, with Venus large in it upon the border line between the tints
of green and blue.

The Albergo del Sole is worth commemorating. We stepped, without the intervention of courtyard
or entrance hall, straight from the little inn garden into an open, vaulted room. This was
divided into two compartments by a stout column supporting round arches. Wooden gates furnished
a kind of fence between the atrium and what an old Pompeian would have styled the triclinium.
For in the further part a table was laid for supper and lighted with suspended lamps. And here
a party of artists and students drank and talked and smoked. A great live peacock, half asleep
and winking his eyes, sat perched upon a heavy wardrobe watching them. The outer chamber, where
we waited in arm-chairs of ample girth, had its loggia windows and doors open to the air. There
were singing-birds in cages; and plants of rosemary, iris, and arundo sprang carelessly from
holes in the floor. A huge vase filled to overflowing with oranges and lemons, the very symbol
of generous prodigality, stood in the midst, and several dogs were lounging round. The outer
twilight, blending with the dim sheen of the lamps, softened this pretty scene to picturesqueness.
Altogether it was a strange and unexpected place. Much experienced as the nineteenth-century
nomad may be in inns, he will rarely receive a more powerful and refreshing impression, entering
one at evenfall, than here.

There was no room for us in the inn. We were sent, attended by a boy with a lantern, through
fields of dew-drenched barley and folded poppies, to a farmhouse overshadowed by four spreading
pines. Exceedingly soft and grey, with rose-tinted weft of steam upon its summit, stood Vesuvius
above us in the twilight. Something in the recent impression of the dimly-lighted supper-room,
and in the idyllic simplicity of this lantern-litten journey through the barley, suggested,
by one of those inexplicable stirrings of association which affect tired senses, a dim, dreamy
thought of Palestine and Bible stories. The feeling of the cenacolo blent here with feelings
of Ruth's cornfields, and the white square houses with their flat roofs enforced the illusion.
Here we slept in the middle of a contadino colony. Some of the folk had made way for us; and
by the wheezing, coughing, and snoring of several sorts and ages in the chamber next me, I
imagine they must have endured considerable crowding. My bed was large enough to have contained
a family. Over its head there was a little shrine, hollowed in the thickness of the wall, with
several sacred emblems and a shallow vase of holy water. On dressers at each end of the room
stood glass shrines, occupied by finely-dressed Madonna dolls and pots of artificial flowers.
Above the doors S. Michael and S. Francis, roughly embossed in low relief and boldly painted,
gave dignity and grandeur to the walls. These showed some sense for art in the first builders
of the house. But the taste of the inhabitants could not be praised. There were countless gaudy
prints of saints, and exactly five pictures of the Bambino, very big, and sprawling in a field
alone. A crucifix, some old bottles, a gun, old clothes suspended from pegs, pieces of peasant
pottery and china, completed the furniture of the apartment.

But what a view it showed when Christian next morning opened the door! From my bed I looked
across the red-tiled terrace to the stone pines with their velvet roofage and the blue-peaked
hills of Stabiæ.

SAN GERMANO.

No one need doubt about his quarters in this country town. The Albergo di Pompeii is a truly
sumptuous place. Sofas, tables, and chairs in our sitting-room are made of buffalo horns, very
cleverly pieced together, but torturing the senses with suggestions of impalement. Sitting
or standing, one felt insecure. When would the points run into us? when should we begin to
break these incrustations off? and would the whole fabric crumble at a touch into chaotic heaps
of horns?

It is market day, and the costumes in the streets are brilliant. The women wear a white petticoat,
a blue skirt made straight and tightly bound above it, a white richly-worked bodice, and the
white square-folded napkin of the Abruzzi on their heads. Their jacket is of red or green--pure
colour. A rug of striped red, blue, yellow, and black protects the whole dress from the rain.
There is a very noble quality of green--sappy and gemmy--like some of Titian's or Giorgione's--in
the stuffs they use. Their build and carriage are worthy of goddesses.

Rain falls heavily, persistently. We must ride on donkeys, in waterproofs, to Monte Cassino.
Mountain and valley, oak wood and ilex grove, lentisk thicket and winding river-bed, are drowned
alike in soft-descending, soaking rain. Far and near the landscape swims in rain, and the hill-sides
send down torrents through their watercourses.

The monastery is a square, dignified building, of vast extent and princely solidity. It has
a fine inner court, with sumptuous staircases of slabbed stone leading to the church. This
public portion of the edifice is both impressive and magnificent, without sacrifice of religious
severity to parade. We acknowledge a successful compromise between the austerity of the order
and the grandeur befitting the fame, wealth, prestige, and power of its parent foundation.
The church itself is a tolerable structure of the Renaissance--costly marble incrustations
and mosaics, meaningless Neapolitan frescoes. One singular episode in the mediocrity of art
adorning it, is the tomb of Pietro dei Medici. Expelled from Florence in 1494, he never returned,
but was drowned in the Garigliano. Clement VII. ordered, and Duke Cosimo I. erected, this marble
monument--the handicraft, in part at least, of Francesco di San Gallo--to their relative. It
is singularly stiff, ugly, out of place--at once obtrusive and insignificant.

A gentle old German monk conducted Christian and me over the convent--boy's school, refectory
printing press, lithographic workshop, library, archives. We then returned to the church, from
which we passed to visit the most venerable and sacred portion of the monastery. The cell of
S. Benedict is being restored and painted in fresco by the Austrian Benedictines; a pious but
somewhat frigid process of re-edification. This so-called cell is a many-chambered and very
ancient building, with a tower which is now embedded in the massive superstructure of the modern
monastery. The German artists adorning it contrive to blend the styles of Giotto, Fra Angelico,
Egypt, and Byzance, not without force and a kind of intense frozen pietism. S. Mauro's vision
of his master's translation to heaven--the ladder of light issuing between two cypresses, and
the angels watching on the tower walls--might even be styled poetical. But the decorative angels
on the roof and other places, being adapted from Egyptian art, have a strange, incongruous
appearance.

Monasteries are almost invariably disappointing to one who goes in search of what gives virtue
and solidity to human life; and even Monte Cassino was no exception. This ought not to be otherwise,
seeing what a peculiar sympathy with the monastic institution is required to make these cloisters
comprehensible. The atmosphere of operose indolence, prolonged through centuries and centuries,
stifles; nor can antiquity and influence impose upon a mind which resents monkery itself as
an essential evil. That Monte Cassino supplied the Church with several potentates is incontestable.
That mediæval learning and morality would have suffered more without this brotherhood cannot
be doubted. Yet it is difficult to name men of very eminent genius whom the Cassinesi claim
as their alumni; nor, with Boccaccio's testimony to their carelessness, and with the evidence
of their library before our eyes, can we rate their services to civilised erudition very highly.
I longed to possess the spirit, for one moment, of Montalembert. I longed for what is called
historical imagination, for the indiscriminate voracity of those men to whom world-famous sites
are in themselves soul-stirring.

FOOTNOTES:

[B] These verses are extracted from the second book of Pontano's Hendecasyllabi (Aldus, 1513,
p. 208). They so vividly paint the amusements of a watering-place in the fifteenth century
that I have translated them:

With me, let but the mind be wise, Gravina, With me haste to the tranquil haunts of Baiæ, Haunts
that pleasure hath made her home, and she who Sways all hearts, the voluptuous Aphrodite. Here
wine rules, and the dance, and games and laughter; Graces reign in a round of mirthful madness;
Love hath built, and desire, a palace here too, Where glad youths and enamoured girls on all
sides Play and bathe in the waves in sunny weather, Dine and sup, and the merry mirth of banquets
Blend with dearer delights and love's embraces, Blend with pleasures of youth and honeyed kisses,
Till, sport-tired, in the couch inarmed they slumber. Thee our Muses invite to these enjoyments;
Thee those billows allure, the myrtled seashore, Birds allure with a song, and mighty Gaurus
Twines his redolent wreath of vines and ivy.

MAY IN UMBRIA.

FROM ROME TO TERNI.

We left Rome in clear sunset light. The Alban Hills defined themselves like a cameo of amethyst
upon a pale blue distance; and over the Sabine Mountains soared immeasurable moulded domes
of alabaster thunder-clouds, casting deep shadows, purple and violet, across the slopes of
Tivoli. To westward the whole sky was lucid, like some half-transparent topaz, flooded with
slowly yellowing sunbeams. The Campagna has often been called a garden of wild-flowers. Just
now poppy and aster, gladiolus and thistle, embroider it with patterns infinite and intricate
beyond the power of art. They have already mown the hay in part; and the billowy tracts of
greyish green, where no flowers are now in bloom, supply a restful groundwork to those brilliant
patches of diapered fioriture. These are like praying-carpets spread for devotees upon the
pavement of a mosque whose roof is heaven. In the level light the scythes of the mowers flash
as we move past. From their bronzed foreheads the men toss masses of dark curls. Their muscular
flanks and shoulders sway sideways from firm yet pliant reins. On one hill, fronting the sunset,
there stands a herd of some thirty huge grey oxen, feeding and raising their heads to look
at us, with just a flush of crimson on their horns and dewlaps. This is the scale of Mason's
and of Costa's colouring. This is the breadth and magnitude of Rome.

Thus, through dells of ilex and oak, yielding now a glimpse of Tiber and S. Peter's, now opening
on a purple section of the distant Sabine Hills, we came to Monte Rotondo. The sun sank; and
from the flames where he had perished, Hesper and the thin moon, very white and keen, grew
slowly into sight. Now we follow the Tiber, a swollen, hurrying, turbid river, in which the
mellowing Western sky reflects itself. This changeful mirror of swift waters spreads a dazzling
foreground to valley, hill and lustrous heaven. There is orange on the far horizon, and a green
ocean above, in which sea-monsters fashioned from the clouds are floating. Yonder swims an
elf with luminous hair astride upon a sea-horse, and followed by a dolphin plunging through
the fiery waves. The orange deepens into dying red. The green divides into daffodil and beryl.
The blue above grows fainter, and the moon and stars shine stronger.

Through these celestial changes we glide into a landscape fit for Francia and the early Umbrian
painters. Low hills to right and left; suavely modelled heights in the far distance; a very
quiet width of plain, with slender trees ascending into the pellucid air; and down in the mystery
of the middle distance a glimpse of heaven-reflecting water. The magic of the moon and stars
lends enchantment to this scene. No painting could convey their influences. Sometimes both
luminaries tremble, all dispersed and broken, on the swirling river. Sometimes they sleep above
the calm cool reaches of a rush-grown mere. And here and there a ruined turret, with a broken
window and a tuft of shrubs upon the rifted battlement, gives value to the fading pallor of
the West. The last phase in the sunset is a change to blue-grey monochrome, faintly silvered
with starlight; hills, Tiber, fields and woods all floating in aërial twilight. There is no
definition of outline now. The daffodil of the horizon has faded into scarcely perceptible
pale greenish yellow.

We have passed Stimigliano. Through the mystery of darkness we hurry past the bridges of Augustus
and the lights of Narni.

THE CASCADES OF TERNI.

The Velino is a river of considerable volume which rises in the highest region of the Abruzzi,
threads the upland valley of Rieti, and precipitates itself by an artificial channel over cliffs
about seven hundred feet in height into the Nera. The water is densely charged with particles
of lime. This calcareous matter not only tends continually to choke its bed, but clothes the
precipices over which the torrent thunders with fantastic drapery of stalactite; and, carried
on the wind in foam, incrusts the forests that surround the falls with fine white dust. These
famous cascades are undoubtedly the most sublime and beautiful which Europe boasts; and their
situation is worthy of so great a natural wonder. We reach them through a noble mid-Italian
landscape, where the mountain forms are austere and boldly modelled, but the vegetation, both
wild and cultivated, has something of the South-Italian richness. The hill-sides are a labyrinth
of box and arbutus, with coronilla in golden bloom. The turf is starred with cyclamens and
orchises. Climbing the staircase paths beside the falls in morning sunlight, or stationed on
the points of vantage that command their successive cataracts, we enjoyed a spectacle which
might be compared in its effect upon the mind to the impression left by a symphony or a tumultuous
lyric. The turbulence and splendour, the swiftness and resonance, the veiling of the scene
in smoke of shattered water-masses, the withdrawal of these veils according as the volume of
the river slightly shifted in its fall, the rainbows shimmering on the silver spray, the shivering
of poplars hung above impendent precipices, the stationary grandeur of the mountains keeping
watch around, the hurry and the incoherence of the cataracts, the immobility of force and changeful
changelessness in nature, were all for me the elements of one stupendous poem. It was like
an ode of Shelley translated into symbolism, more vivid through inarticulate appeal to primitive
emotion than any words could be.

MONTEFALCO.

The rich land of the Clitumnus is divided into meadows by transparent watercourses, gliding
with a glassy current over swaying reeds. Through this we pass, and leave Bevagna to the right,
and ascend one of those long gradual roads which climb the hills where all the cities of the
Umbrians perch. The view expands, revealing Spello, Assisi, Perugia on its mountain buttress,
and the far reaches northward of the Tiber valley. Then Trevi and Spoleto came into sight,
and the severe hill-country above Gubbio in part disclosed itself. Over Spoleto the fierce
witch-haunted heights of Norcia rose forbidding. This is the kind of panorama that dilates
the soul. It is so large, so dignified, so beautiful in tranquil form. The opulent abundance
of the plain contrasts with the severity of mountain ranges desolately grand; and the name
of each of all those cities thrills the heart with memories.

The main object of a visit to Montefalco is to inspect its many excellent frescoes; painted
histories of S. Francis and S. Jerome, by Benozzo Gozzoli; saints, angels, and Scripture episodes
by the gentle Tiberio d'Assisi. Full justice had been done to these, when a little boy, seeing
us lingering outside the church of S. Chiara, asked whether we should not like to view the
body of the saint. This privilege could be purchased at the price of a small fee. It was only
necessary to call the guardian of her shrine at the high altar. Indolent, and in compliant
mood, with languid curiosity and half-an-hour to spare, we assented. A handsome young man appeared,
who conducted us with decent gravity into a little darkened chamber behind the altar. There
he lighted wax tapers, opened sliding doors in what looked like a long coffin, and drew curtains.
Before us in the dim light there lay a woman covered with a black nun's dress. Only her hands,
and the exquisitely beautiful pale contour of her face (forehead, nose, mouth, and chin, modelled
in purest outline, as though the injury of death had never touched her) were visible. Her closed
eyes seemed to sleep. She had the perfect peace of Luini's S. Catherine borne by the angels
to her grave on Sinai. I have rarely seen anything which surprised and touched me more. The
religious earnestness of the young custode, the hushed adoration of the country-folk who had
silently assembled round us, intensified the sympathy-inspiring beauty of the slumbering girl.
Could Julia, daughter of Claudius, have been fairer than this maiden, when the Lombard workmen
found her in her Latin tomb, and brought her to be worshipped on the Capitol? S. Chiara's shrine
was hung round with her relics; and among these the heart extracted from her body was suspended.
Upon it, apparently wrought into the very substance of the mummied flesh, were impressed a
figure of the crucified Christ, the scourge, and the five stigmata. The guardian's faith in
this miraculous witness to her sainthood, the gentle piety of the men and women who knelt before
it, checked all expressions of incredulity. We abandoned ourselves to the genius of the place;
forgot even to ask what Santa Chiara was sleeping here; and withdrew, toned to a not unpleasing
melancholy. The world-famous Saint Clair, the spiritual sister of S. Francis, lies in Assisi.
I have often asked myself, Who, then, was this nun? What history had she? And I think now of
this girl as of a damsel of romance, a Sleeping Beauty in the wood of time, secluded from intrusive
elements of fact, and folded in the love and faith of her own simple worshippers. Among the
hollows of Arcadia, how many rustic shrines in ancient days held saints of Hellas, apocryphal,
perhaps, like this, but hallowed by tradition and enduring homage![C]

FOLIGNO.

In the landscape of Raphael's votive picture, known as the Madonna di Foligno, there is a town
with a few towers, placed upon a broad plain at the edge of some blue hills. Allowing for that
license as to details which imaginative masters permitted themselves in matters of subordinate
importance, Raphael's sketch is still true to Foligno. The place has not materially changed
since the beginning of the sixteenth century. Indeed relatively to the state of Italy at large,
it is still the same as in the days of ancient Rome. Foligno forms a station of commanding
interest between Rome and the Adriatic upon the great Flaminian Way. At Foligno the passes
of the Apennines debouch into the Umbrian plain, which slopes gradually toward the valley of
the Tiber, and from it the valley of the Nera is reached by an easy ascent beneath the walls
of Spoleto. An army advancing from the north by the Metaurus and the Furlo Pass must find itself
at Foligno; and the level champaign round the city is well adapted to the maintenance and exercises
of a garrison. In the days of the Republic and the Empire, the value of this position was well
understood; but Foligno's importance, as the key to the Flaminian Way, was eclipsed by two
flourishing cities in its immediate vicinity, Hispellum and Mevania, the modern Spello and
Bevagna. We might hazard a conjecture that the Lombards, when they ruled the Duchy of Spoleto,
following their usual policy of opposing new military centres to the ancient Roman municipia,
encouraged Fulginium at the expense of her two neighbours. But of this there is no certainty
to build upon. All that can be affirmed with accuracy is that in the Middle Ages, while Spello
and Bevagna declined into the inferiority of dependent burghs, Foligno grew in power and became
the chief commune of this part of Umbria. It was famous during the last centuries of struggle
between the Italian burghers and their native despots, for peculiar ferocity in civil strife.
Some of the bloodiest pages in mediæval Italian history are those which relate the vicissitudes
of the Trinci family, the exhaustion of Foligno by internal discord, and its final submission
to the Papal power. Since railways have been carried from Rome through Narni and Spoleto to
Ancona and Perugia, Foligno has gained considerably in commercial and military status. It is
the point of intersection for three lines; the Italian government has made it a great cavalry
dépôt, and there are signs of reviving traffic in its decayed streets. Whether the presence
of a large garrison has already modified the population, or whether we may ascribe something
to the absence of Roman municipal institutions in the far past, and to the savagery of the
mediæval period, it is difficult to say. Yet the impression left by Foligno upon the mind is
different from that of Assisi, Spello, and Montefalco, which are distinguished for a certain
grace and gentleness in their inhabitants.

My window in the city wall looks southward across the plain to Spoleto, with Montefalco perched
aloft upon the right, and Trevi on its mountain-bracket to the left. From the topmost peaks
of the Sabine Apennines, gradual tender sloping lines descend to find their quiet in the valley
of Clitumnus. The space between me and that distance is infinitely rich with every sort of
greenery, dotted here and there with towers and relics of baronial houses. The little town
is in commotion; for the working-men of Foligno and its neighbourhood have resolved to spend
their earnings on a splendid festa--horse-races, and two nights of fireworks. The acacias and
pawlonias on the ramparts are in full bloom of creamy white and lilac. In the glare of Bengal
lights these trees, with all their pendulous blossoms, surpassed the most fantastic of artificial
decorations. The rockets sent aloft into the sky amid that solemn Umbrian landscape were nowise
out of harmony with nature. I never sympathised with critics who resent the intrusion of fireworks
upon scenes of natural beauty. The Giessbach, lighted up at so much per head on stated evenings,
with a band playing and a crowd of cockneys staring, presents perhaps an incongruous spectacle.
But where, as here at Foligno, a whole city has made itself a festival, where there are multitudes
of citizens and soldiers and country-people slowly moving and gravely admiring, with the decency
and order characteristic of an Italian crowd, I have nothing but a sense of satisfaction.

It is sometimes the traveller's good fortune in some remote place to meet with an inhabitant
who incarnates and interprets for him the genius loci as he has conceived it. Though his own
subjectivity will assuredly play a considerable part in such an encounter, transferring to
his chance acquaintance qualities he may not possess, and connecting this personality in some
purely imaginative manner with thoughts derived from study, or impressions made by nature;
yet the stranger will henceforth become the meeting-point of many memories, the central figure
in a composition which derives from him its vividness. Unconsciously and innocently he has
lent himself to the creation of a picture, and round him, as around the hero of a myth, have
gathered thoughts and sentiments of which he had himself no knowledge. On one of these nights
I had been threading the aisles of acacia-trees, now glaring red, now azure, as the Bengal
lights kept changing. My mind instinctively went back to scenes of treachery and bloodshed
in the olden time, when Corrado Trinci paraded the mangled remnants of three hundred of his
victims, heaped on muleback, through Foligno, for a warning to the citizens. As the procession
moved along the ramparts, I found myself in contact with a young man, who readily fell into
conversation. He was very tall, with enormous breadth of shoulders, and long sinewy arms, like
Michelangelo's favourite models. His head was small, curled over with crisp black hair. Low
forehead, and thick level eyebrows absolutely meeting over intensely bright fierce eyes. The
nose descending straight from the brows, as in a statue of Hadrian's age. The mouth full-lipped,
petulant, and passionate above a firm round chin. He was dressed in the shirt, white trousers,
and loose white jacket of a contadino; but he did not move with a peasant's slouch, rather
with the elasticity and alertness of an untamed panther. He told me that he was just about
to join a cavalry regiment; and I could well imagine, when military dignity was added to that
gait, how grandly he would go. This young man, of whom I heard nothing more after our half-hour's
conversation among the crackling fireworks and roaring cannon, left upon my mind an indescribable
impression of dangerousness--of "something fierce and terrible, eligible to burst forth." Of
men like this, then, were formed the Companies of Adventure who flooded Italy with villany,
ambition, and lawlessness in the fifteenth century. Gattamelata, who began life as a baker's
boy at Narni and ended it with a bronze statue by Donatello on the public square in Padua,
was of this breed. Like this were the Trinci and their bands of murderers. Like this were the
bravi who hunted Lorenzaccio to death at Venice. Like this was Pietro Paolo Baglioni, whose
fault, in the eyes of Machiavelli, was that he could not succeed in being "perfettamente tristo."
Beautiful, but inhuman; passionate, but cold; powerful, but rendered impotent for firm and
lofty deeds by immorality and treason; how many centuries of men like this once wasted Italy
and plunged her into servitude! Yet what material is here, under sterner discipline, and with
a nobler national ideal, for the formation of heroic armies. Of such stuff, doubtless, were
the Roman legionaries. When will the Italians learn to use these men as Fabius or as Cæsar,
not as the Vitelli and the Trinci used them? In such meditations, deeply stirred by the meeting
of my own reflections with one who seemed to represent for me in life and blood the spirit
of the place which had provoked them, I said farewell to Cavallucci, and returned to my bed-room
on the city-wall. The last rockets had whizzed and the last cannons had thundered ere I fell
asleep.

SPELLO.

Spello contains some not inconsiderable antiquities--the remains of a Roman theatre, a Roman
gate with the heads of two men and a woman leaning over it, and some fragments of Roman sculpture
scattered through its buildings. The churches, especially those of S. M. Maggiore and S. Francesco,
are worth a visit for the sake of Pinturicchio. Nowhere, except in the Piccolomini Library
at Siena, can that master's work in fresco be better studied than here. The satisfaction with
which he executed the wall paintings in S. Maria Maggiore is testified by his own portrait
introduced upon a panel in the decoration of the Virgin's chamber. The scrupulously rendered
details of books, chairs, window seats, &c., which he here has copied, remind one of Carpaccio's
study of S. Benedict at Venice. It is all sweet, tender, delicate, and carefully finished;
but without depth, not even the depth of Perugino's feeling. In S. Francesco, Pinturicchio,
with the same meticulous refinement, painted a letter addressed to him by Gentile Baglioni.
It lies on a stool before Madonna and her court of saints. Nicety of execution, technical mastery
of fresco as a medium for Dutch detail-painting, prettiness of composition, and cheerfulness
of colouring, are noticeable throughout his work here rather than either thought or sentiment.
S. Maria Maggiore can boast a fresco of Madonna between a young episcopal saint and Catherine
of Alexandria from the hand of Perugino. The rich yellow harmony of its tones, and the graceful
dignity of its emotion, conveyed no less by a certain Raphaelesque pose and outline than by
suavity of facial expression, enable us to measure the distance between this painter and his
quasi-pupil Pinturicchio.

We did not, however, drive to Spello to inspect either Roman antiquities or frescoes, but to
see an inscription on the city walls about Orlando. It is a rude Latin elegiac couplet, saying
that, "from the sign below, men may conjecture the mighty members of Roland, nephew of Charles;
his deeds are written in history." Three agreeable old gentlemen of Spello, who attended us
with much politeness, and were greatly interested in my researches, pointed out a mark waist-high
upon the wall, where Orlando's knee is reported to have reached. But I could not learn anything
about a phallic monolith, which is said by Guérin or Panizzi to have been identified with the
Roland myth at Spello. Such a column either never existed here, or had been removed before
the memory of the present generation.

EASTER MORNING AT ASSISI.

We are in the lower church of S. Francesco. High mass is being sung, with orchestra and organ
and a choir of many voices. Candles are lighted on the altar, over-canopied with Giotto's allegories.
From the low southern windows slants the sun, in narrow bands, upon the many-coloured gloom
and embrowned glory of these painted aisles. Women in bright kerchiefs kneel upon the stones,
and shaggy men from the mountains stand or lean against the wooden benches. There is no moving
from point to point. Where we have taken our station, at the north-western angle of the transept,
there we stay till mass be over. The whole low-vaulted building glows duskily; the frescoed
roof, the stained windows, the figure-crowded pavements blending their rich but subdued colours,
like hues upon some marvellous moth's wings, or like a deep-toned rainbow mist discerned in
twilight dreams, or like such tapestry as Eastern queens, in ancient days, wrought for the
pavilion of an empress. Forth from this maze of mingling tints, indefinite in shade and sunbeams,
lean earnest, saintly faces--ineffably pure--adoring, pitying, pleading; raising their eyes
in ecstasy to heaven, or turning them in ruth toward earth. Men and women of whom the world
was not worthy--at the hands of those old painters they have received the divine grace, the
dove-like simplicity, whereof Italians in the fourteenth century possessed the irrecoverable
secret. Each face is a poem; the counterpart in painting to a chapter from the Fioretti di
San Francesco. Over the whole scene--in the architecture, in the frescoes, in the coloured
windows, in the gloom, on the people, in the incense, from the chiming bells, through the music--broods
one spirit: the spirit of him who was "the co-espoused, co-transforate with Christ;" the ardent,
the radiant, the beautiful in soul; the suffering, the strong, the simple, the victorious over
self and sin; the celestial who trampled upon earth and rose on wings of ecstasy to heaven;
the Christ-inebriated saint of visions supersensual and life beyond the grave. Far down below
the feet of those who worship God through him, S. Francis sleeps; but his soul, the incorruptible
part of him, the message he gave the world, is in the spaces round us. This is his temple.
He fills it like an unseen god. Not as Phoebus or Athene, from their marble pedestals; but
as an abiding spirit, felt everywhere, nowhere seized, absorbing in itself all mysteries, all
myths, all burning exaltations, all abasements, all love, self-sacrifice, pain, yearning, which
the thought of Christ, sweeping the centuries, hath wrought for men. Let, therefore, choir
and congregation raise their voices on the tide of prayers and praises; for this is Easter
morning--Christ is risen! Our sister, Death of the Body, for whom S. Francis thanked God in
his hymn, is reconciled to us this day, and takes us by the hand, and leads us to the gate
whence floods of heavenly glory issue from the faces of a multitude of saints. Pray, ye poor
people; chant and pray. If all be but a dream, to wake from this were loss for you indeed!

PERUSIA AUGUSTA.

The piazza in front of the Prefettura is my favourite resort on these nights of full moon.
The evening twilight is made up partly of sunset fading over Thrasymene and Tuscany; partly
of moonrise from the mountains of Gubbio and the passes toward Ancona. The hills are capped
with snow, although the season is so forward. Below our parapets the bulk of S. Domenico, with
its gaunt, perforated tower, and the finer group of S. Pietro, flaunting the arrowy "Pennacchio
di Perugia," jut out upon the spine of hill which dominates the valley of the Tiber. As the
night gloom deepens, and the moon ascends the sky, these buildings seem to form the sombre
foreground to some French etching. Beyond them spreads the misty moon-irradiated plain of Umbria.
Over all rise shadowy Apennines, with dim suggestions of Assisi, Spello, Foligno, Montefalco,
and Spoleto on their basements. Little thin whiffs of breezes, very slight and searching, flit
across, and shiver as they pass from Apennine to plain. The slowly moving population--women
in veils, men winter-mantled--pass to and fro between the buildings and the grey immensity
of sky. Bells ring. The bugles of the soldiers blow retreat in convents turned to barracks.
Young men roam the streets beneath, singing May songs. Far, far away upon the plain, red through
the vitreous moonlight ringed with thundery gauze, fires of unnamed castelli smoulder. As we
lean from ledges eighty feet in height, gas vies with moon in chequering illuminations on the
ancient walls; Etruscan mouldings, Roman letters, high-piled hovels, suburban world-old dwellings
plastered like martins' nests against the masonry.

Sunlight adds more of detail to this scene. To the right of Subasio, where the passes go from
Foligno towards Urbino and Ancona, heavy masses of thunder-cloud hang every day; but the plain
and hill-buttresses are clear transparent blueness. First comes Assisi, with S. M. degli Angeli
below; then Spello; then Foligno; then Trevi; and, far away, Spoleto; with, reared against
those misty battlements, the village height of Montefalco--the "ringhiera dell'Umbria," as
they call it in this country. By daylight, the snow on yonder peaks is clearly visible, where
the Monti della Sibilla tower up above the sources of the Nera and Velino from frigid wastes
of Norcia. The lower ranges seem as though painted, in films of airiest and palest azure, upon
china; and then comes the broad, green champaign, flecked with villages and farms. Just at
the basement of Perugia winds Tiber, through sallows and grey poplar-trees, spanned by ancient
arches of red brick, and guarded here and there by castellated towers. The mills beneath their
dams and weirs are just as Raphael drew them; and the feeling of air and space reminds one,
on each coign of vantage, of some Umbrian picture. Every hedgerow is hoary with May-bloom and
honeysuckle. The oaks hang out their golden-dusted tassels. Wayside shrines are decked with
laburnum boughs and iris blossoms plucked from the copse-woods, and where spires of purple
and pink orchis variegate the thin, fine grass. The land waves far and wide with young corn,
emerald green beneath the olive-trees, which take upon their underfoliage tints reflected from
this verdure or red tones from the naked earth. A fine race of contadini, with large, heroically-graceful
forms, and beautiful dark eyes and noble faces, move about this garden, intent on ancient,
easy tillage of the kind Saturnian soil.

LA MAGIONE.

On the road from Perugia to Cortona, the first stage ends at La Magione, a high hill-village
commanding the passage from the Umbrian champaign to the lake of Thrasymene. It has a grim
square fortalice above it, now in ruins, and a stately castle to the south-east, built about
the time of Braccio. Here took place that famous diet of Cesare Borgia's enemies, when the
son of Alexander VI. was threatening Bologna with his arms, and bidding fair to make himself
supreme tyrant of Italy in 1502. It was the policy of Cesare to fortify himself by reducing
the fiefs of the Church to submission, and by rooting out the dynasties which had acquired
a sort of tyranny in Papal cities. The Varani of Camerino and the Manfredi of Faenza had been
already extirpated. There was only too good reason to believe that the turn of the Vitelli
at Città di Castello, of the Baglioni at Perugia, and of the Bentivogli at Bologna would come
next. Pandolfo Petrucci at Siena, surrounded on all sides by Cesare's conquests, and specially
menaced by the fortification of Piombino, felt himself in danger. The great house of the Orsini,
who swayed a large part of the Patrimony of S. Peter's, and were closely allied to the Vitelli,
had even graver cause for anxiety. But such was the system of Italian warfare, that nearly
all these noble families lived by the profession of arms, and most of them were in the pay
of Cesare. When, therefore, the conspirators met at La Magione, they were plotting against
a man whose money they had taken, and whom they had hitherto aided in his career of fraud and
spoliation.

The diet consisted of the Cardinal Orsini, an avowed antagonist of Alexander VI.; his brother
Paolo, the chieftain of the clan; Vitellozzo Vitelli, lord of Città di Castello; Gian-Paolo
Baglioni, made undisputed master of Perugia by the recent failure of his cousin Grifonetto's
treason; Oliverotto, who had just acquired the March of Fermo by the murder of his uncle Giovanni
da Fogliani; Ermes Bentivoglio, the heir of Bologna; and Antonio da Venafro, the secretary
of Pandolfo Petrucci. These men vowed hostility on the basis of common injuries and common
fear against the Borgia. But they were for the most part stained themselves with crime, and
dared not trust each other, and could not gain the confidence of any respectable power in Italy
except the exiled Duke of Urbino. Procrastination was the first weapon used by the wily Cesare,
who trusted that time would sow among his rebel captains suspicion and dissension. He next
made overtures to the leaders separately, and so far succeeded in his perfidious policy as
to draw Vitellezzo Vitelli, Oliverotto da Fermo, Paolo Orsini, and Francesco Orsini, Duke of
Gravina, into his nets at Sinigaglia. Under pretext of fair conference and equitable settlement
of disputed claims, he possessed himself of their persons, and had them strangled--two upon
December 31, and two upon January 18, 1503. Of all Cesare's actions, this was the most splendid
for its successful combination of sagacity and policy in the hour of peril, of persuasive diplomacy,
and of ruthless decision when the time to strike his blow arrived.

CORTONA.

After leaving La Magione, the road descends upon the Lake of Thrasymene through oak-woods full
of nightingales. The Lake lay basking, leaden-coloured, smooth and waveless, under a misty,
rain-charged, sun-irradiated sky. At Passignano, close beside its shore, we stopped for mid-day.
This is a little fishing village of very poor people, who live entirely by labour on the waters.
They showed us huge eels coiled in tanks, and some fine specimens of the silver carp--Reina
del Lago. It was off one of the eels that we made our lunch; and taken, as he was, alive from
his cool lodging, he furnished a series of dishes fit for a king.

Climbing the hill of Cortona seemed a quite interminable business. It poured a deluge. Our
horses were tired, and one lean donkey, who, after much trouble, was produced from a farmhouse
and yoked in front of them, rendered but little assistance.

Next day we duly saw the Muse and Lamp in the Museo, the Fra Angelicos,
and all the Signorellis. One cannot help thinking that too much fuss is
made nowadays about works of art--running after them for their own
sakes, exaggerating their importance, and detaching them as objects of
study, instead of taking them with sympathy and carelessness as pleasant
or instructive adjuncts to our actual life. Artists, historians of art,
and critics are forced to isolate pictures; and it is of profit to their
souls to do so. But simple folk, who have no æsthetic vocation, whether
 reative or critical, suffer more than is good for them by compliance
with mere fashion. Sooner or later we shall return to the spirit of the
ages which produced these pictures, and which regarded them with less of
an industrious bewilderment than they evoke at present.

I am far indeed from wishing to decry art, the study of art, or the benefits to be derived
from its intelligent enjoyment. I only mean to suggest that we go the wrong way to work at
present in this matter. Picture and sculpture galleries accustom us to the separation of art
from life. Our methods of studying art, making a beginning of art-study while travelling, tend
to perpetuate this separation. It is only on reflection, after long experience, that we come
to perceive that the most fruitful moments in our art education have been casual and unsought,
in quaint nooks and unexpected places, where nature, art, and life are happily blent.

The Palace of the Commune at Cortona is interesting because of the shields of Florentine governors,
sculptured on blocks of grey stone, and inserted in its outer walls--Peruzzi, Albizzi, Strozzi,
Salviati, among the more ancient--de' Medici at a later epoch. The revolutions in the Republic
of Florence may be read by a herald from these coats of arms and the dates beneath them.

The landscape of this Tuscan highland satisfies me more and more with sense of breadth and
beauty. From S. Margherita above the town the prospect is immense and wonderful and wild--up
into those brown, forbidding mountains; down to the vast plain; and over to the cities of Chiusi,
Montepulciano, and Foiano. The jewel of the view is Trasimeno, a silvery shield encased with
serried hills, and set upon one corner of the scene, like a precious thing apart and meant
for separate contemplation. There is something in the singularity and circumscribed completeness
of the mountain-girded lake, diminished by distance, which would have attracted Lionardo da
Vinci's pencil, had he seen it.

Cortona seems desperately poor, and the beggars are intolerable. One little blind boy, led
by his brother, both frightfully ugly and ragged urchins, pursued us all over the city, incessantly
whining "Signore! Padrone!" It was only on the threshold of the inn that I ventured to give
them a few coppers, for I knew well that any public beneficence would raise the whole swarm
of the begging population round us. Sitting later in the day upon the piazza of S. Domenico,
I saw the same blind boy taken by his brother to play. The game consisted in the little creature
throwing his arms about the trunk of a big tree, and running round and round it, clasping it.
This seemed to make him quite inexpressibly happy. His face lit up and beamed with that inner
beatitude blind people show--a kind of rapture shining over it, as though nothing could be
more altogether delightful. This little boy had the small pox at eight months, and has never
been able to see since. He looks sturdy, and may live to be of any age--doomed always, is that
possible, to beg?

CHIUSI.

What more enjoyable dinner can be imagined than a flask of excellent Montepulciano, a well-cooked
steak, and a little goat's cheese in the inn of the Leone d'Oro at Chiusi? The windows are
open, and the sun is setting. Monte Cetona bounds the view to the right, and the wooded hills
of Città della Pieve to the left. The deep green dimpled valley goes stretching away toward
Orvieto; and at its end a purple mountain mass, distinct and solitary, which may peradventure
be Soracte! The near country is broken into undulating hills, forested with fine olives and
oaks; and the composition of the landscape, with its crowning villages, is worthy of a background
to an Umbrian picture. The breadth and depth and quiet which those painters loved, the space
of lucid sky, the suggestion of winding waters in verdant fields, all are here. The evening
is beautiful--golden light streaming softly from behind us on this prospect, and gradually
mellowing to violet and blue with stars above.

At Chiusi we visited several Etruscan tombs, and saw their red and black scrawled pictures.
One of the sepulchres was a well-jointed vault of stone with no wall-paintings. The rest had
been scooped out of the living tufa. This was the excuse for some pleasant hours spent in walking
and driving through the country. Chiusi means for me the mingling of grey olives and green
oaks in limpid sunlight; deep leafy lanes; warm sandstone banks; copses with nightingales and
cyclamens and cuckoos; glimpses of a silvery lake; blue shadowy distances; the bristling ridge
of Monte Cetona; the conical towers, Becca di Questo and Becca di Quello, over against each
other on the borders; ways winding among hedgerows like some bit of England in June, but not
so full of flowers. It means all this, I fear, for me far more than theories about Lars Porsena
and Etruscan ethnology.

GUBBIO.

Gubbio ranks among the most ancient of Italian hill-towns. With its back set firm against the
spine of central Apennines, and piled, house over house, upon the rising slope, it commands
a rich tract of upland champaign, bounded southward toward Perugia and Foligno by peaked and
rolling ridges. This amphitheatre, which forms its source of wealth and independence, is admirably
protected by a chain of natural defences; and Gubbio wears a singularly old-world aspect of
antiquity and isolation. Houses climb right to the crests of gaunt bare peaks; and the brown
mediæval walls with square towers which protected them upon the mountain side, following the
inequalities of the ground, are still a marked feature in the landscape. It is a town of steep
streets and staircases, with quaintly framed prospects, and solemn vistas opening at every
turn across the lowland. One of these views might be selected for especial notice. In front,
irregular buildings losing themselves in country as they straggle by the roadside; then the
open post-road with a cypress to the right; afterwards, the rich green fields, and on a bit
of rising ground an ancient farmhouse with its brown dependencies; lastly, the blue hills above
Fossato, and far away a wrack of tumbling clouds. All this enclosed by the heavy archway of
the Porta Romana, where sunlight and shadow chequer the mellow tones of a dim fresco, indistinct
with age, but beautiful.

Gubbio has not greatly altered since the middle ages. But poor people are now living in the
palaces of noblemen and merchants. These new inhabitants have walled up the fair arched windows
and slender portals of the ancient dwellers, spoiling the beauty of the streets without materially
changing the architectural masses. In that witching hour when the Italian sunset has faded,
and a solemn grey replaces the glowing tones of daffodil and rose, it is not difficult, here
dreaming by oneself alone, to picture the old noble life--the ladies moving along those open
loggias, the young men in plumed caps and curling hair with one foot on those doorsteps, the
knights in armour and the sumpter mules and red-robed Cardinals defiling through those gates
into the courts within. The modern bricks and mortar with which that picturesque scene has
been overlaid, the ugly oblong windows and bright green shutters which now interrupt the flowing
lines of arch and gallery; these disappear beneath the fine remembered touch of a sonnet sung
by Folgore, when still the Parties had their day, and this deserted city was the centre of
great aims and throbbing aspirations.

The names of the chief buildings in Gubbio are strongly suggestive of the middle ages. They
abut upon a Piazza de' Signori. One of them, the Palazzo del Municipio, is a shapeless unfinished
block of masonry. It is here that the Eugubine tables, plates of brass with Umbrian and Roman
incised characters, are shown. The Palazzo de' Consoli has higher architectural qualities,
and is indeed unique among Italian palaces for the combination of massiveness with lightness
in a situation of unprecedented boldness. Rising from enormous substructures morticed into
the solid hill-side, it rears its vast rectangular bulk to a giddy height above the town; airy
loggias imposed on great forbidding masses of brown stone, shooting aloft into a light aërial
tower. The empty halls inside are of fair proportions and a noble size, and the views from
the open colonnades in all directions fascinate. But the final impression made by the building
is one of square, tranquil, massive strength--perpetuity embodied in masonry--force suggesting
facility by daring and successful addition of elegance to hugeness. Vast as it is, this pile
is not forbidding, as a similarly weighty structure in the North would be. The fine quality
of the stone and the delicate though simple mouldings of the windows give it an Italian grace.

These public palaces belong to the age of the Communes, when Gubbio was a free town, with a
policy of its own, and an important part to play in the internecine struggles of Pope and Empire,
Guelf and Ghibelline. The ruined, deserted, degraded Palazzo Ducale reminds us of the advent
of the despots. It has been stripped of all its tarsia-work and sculpture. Only here and there
a Fe. D., with the cupping-glass of Federigo di Montefeltro, remains to show that Gubbio once
became the fairest fief of the Urbino duchy. S. Ubaldo, who gave his name to this duke's son,
was the patron of Gubbio, and to him the cathedral is dedicated--one low enormous vault, like
a cellar or feudal banqueting hall, roofed with a succession of solid Gothic arches. This strange
old church, and the House of Canons, buttressed on the hill beside it, have suffered less from
modernisation than most buildings in Gubbio. The latter, in particular, helps one to understand
what this city of grave palazzi must have been, and how the mere opening of old doors and windows
would restore it to its primitive appearance. The House of the Canons has, in fact, not yet
been given over to the use of middle-class and proletariate.

At the end of a day in Gubbio, it is pleasant to take our ease in the primitive hostelry, at
the back of which foams a mountain-torrent, rushing downward from the Apennines. The Gubbio
wine is very fragrant, and of a rich ruby colour. Those to whom the tints of wine and jewels
give a pleasure not entirely childish, will take delight in its specific blending of tawny
hues with rose. They serve the table still, at Gubbio, after the antique Italian fashion, covering
it with a cream-coloured linen cloth bordered with coarse lace--the creases of the press, the
scent of old herbs from the wardrobe, are still upon it--and the board is set with shallow
dishes of warm, white earthenware, basket-worked in open lattice at the edge, which contain
little separate messes of meat, vegetables, cheese, and comfits. The wine stands in strange,
slender phials of smooth glass, with stoppers; and the amber-coloured bread lies in fair round
loaves upon the cloth. Dining thus is like sitting down to the supper at Emmaus, in some picture
of Gian Bellini or of Masolino. The very bareness of the room--its open rafters, plastered
walls, primitive settees, and red-brick floor, on which a dog sits waiting for a bone--enhances
the impression of artistic delicacy in the table.

FROM GUBBIO TO FANO.

The road from Gubbio, immediately after leaving the city, enters a narrow Alpine ravine, where
a thin stream dashes over dark, red rocks, and pendent saxifrages wave to the winds. The carriage
in which we travelled at the end of May, one morning, had two horses, which our driver soon
supplemented with a couple of white oxen. Slowly and toilsomely we ascended between the flanks
of barren hills--gaunt masses of crimson and grey crag, clothed at their summits with short
turf and scanty pasture. The pass leads first to the little town of Scheggia, and is called
the Monte Calvo, or bald mountain. At Scheggia, it joins the great Flaminian Way, or North
road of the Roman armies. At the top there is a fine view over the conical hills that dominate
Gubbio, and, far away, to noble mountains above the Furlo and the Foligno line of railway to
Ancona. Range rises over range, crossing at unexpected angles, breaking into sudden precipices,
and stretching out long, exquisitely-modelled outlines, as only Apennines can do, in silvery
sobriety of colours toned by clearest air. Every square piece of this austere, wild landscape
forms a varied picture, whereof the composition is due to subtle arrangements of lines always
delicate; and these lines seem somehow to have been determined in their beauty by the vast
antiquity of the mountain system, as though they all had taken time to choose their place and
wear down into harmony. The effect of tempered sadness was heightened for us by stormy lights
and dun clouds, high in air, rolling vapours and flying shadows, over all the prospect, tinted
in ethereal grisaille.

After Scheggia, one enters a land of meadow and oak-trees. This is the sacred central tract
of Jupiter Apenninus, whose fane--

        Delubra Jovis saxoque minantes
    Apenninigenis cultæ pastoribus aræ

--once rose behind us on the bald Iguvian summits. A second little pass leads from this region
to the Adriatic side of the Italian water-shed, and the road now follows the Barano downward
toward the sea. The valley is fairly green with woods, where misletoe may here and there be
seen on boughs of oak, and rich with cornfields. Cagli is the chief town of the district, and
here they show one of the best pictures left to us by Raphael's father, Giovanni Santi. It
is a Madonna, attended by S. Peter, S. Francis, S. Dominic, S. John, and two angels. One of
the angels is traditionally supposed to have been painted from the boy Raphael, and the face
has something which reminds us of his portraits. The whole composition, excellent in modelling,
harmonious in grouping, soberly but strongly coloured, with a peculiar blending of dignity
and sweetness, grace and vigour, makes one wonder why Santi thought it necessary to send his
son from his own workshop to study under Perugino. He was himself a master of his art, and
this, perhaps the most agreeable of his paintings, has a masculine sincerity which is absent
from at least the later works of Perugino.

Some miles beyond Cagli, the real pass of the Furlo begins. It owes its name to a narrow tunnel
bored by Vespasian in the solid rock, where limestone crags descend on the Barano. The Romans
called this gallery Petra Pertusa, or Intercisa, or more familiarly Forulus, whence comes the
modern name. Indeed, the stations on the old Flaminian Way are still well marked by Latin designations;
for Cagli is the ancient Calles, and Fossombrone is Forum Sempronii, and Fano the Fanum Fortunæ.
Vespasian commemorated this early achievement in engineering by an inscription carved on the
living stone, which still remains; and Claudian, when he sang the journey of his Emperor Honorius
from Rimini to Rome, speaks thus of what was even then an object of astonishment to travellers:--

     Lætior hinc fano recipit fortuna vetusto,
     Despiciturque vagus prærupta valle Metaurus,
     Qua mons arte patens vivo se perforat arcu
     Admittitque viam sectæ per viscera rupis.

The Forulus itself may now be matched, on any Alpine pass, by several tunnels of far mightier
dimensions; for it is narrow, and does not extend more than 126 feet in length. But it occupies
a fine position at the end of a really imposing ravine. The whole Furlo Pass might, without
too much exaggeration, be described as a kind of Cheddar on the scale of the Via Mala. The
limestone rocks, which rise on either hand above the gorge to an enormous height, are noble
in form and solemn, like a succession of gigantic portals, with stupendous flanking obelisks
and pyramids. Some of these crag-masses rival the fantastic cliffs of Capri, and all consist
of that southern mountain limestone which changes from pale yellow to blue grey and dusky orange.
A river roars precipitately through the pass, and the road-sides wave with many sorts of campanulas--a
profusion of azure and purple bells upon the hard white stone. Of Roman remains there is still
enough (in the way of Roman bridges and bits of broken masonry) to please an antiquary's eye.
But the lover of nature will dwell chiefly on the picturesque qualities of this historic gorge,
so alien to the general character of Italian scenery, and yet so remote from anything to which
Swiss travelling accustoms one.

The Furlo breaks out into a richer land of mighty oaks and waving cornfields, a fat pastoral
country, not unlike Devonshire in detail, with green uplands, and wild-rose tangled hedgerows,
and much running water, and abundance of summer flowers. At a point above Fossombrone, the
Barano joins the Metauro, and here one has a glimpse of far-away Urbino, high upon its mountain
eyrie. It is so rare, in spite of immemorial belief, to find in Italy a wilderness of wild
flowers, that I feel inclined to make a list of those I saw from our carriage windows as we
rolled down lazily along the road to Fossombrone. Broom, and cytisus, and hawthorn mingled
with roses, gladiolus, and saintfoil. There were orchises, and clematis, and privet, and wild-vine,
vetches of all hues, red poppies, sky-blue cornflowers, and lilac pimpernel. In the rougher
hedges, dogwood, honeysuckle, pyracanth, and acacia made a network of white bloom and blushes.
Milk-worts of all bright and tender tints combined with borage, iris, hawkweeds, harebells,
crimson clover, thyme, red snapdragon, golden asters, and dreamy love-in-a-mist, to weave a
marvellous carpet such as the looms of Shiraz or of Cashmere never spread. Rarely have I gazed
on Flora in such riot, such luxuriance, such self-abandonment to joy. The air was filled with
fragrances. Songs of cuckoos and nightingales echoed from the copses on the hill-sides. The
sun was out, and dancing over all the landscape.

After all this, Fano was very restful in the quiet sunset. It has a sandy stretch of shore,
on which the long, green-yellow rollers of the Adriatic broke into creamy foam, beneath the
waning saffron light over Pesaro and the rosy rising of a full moon. This Adriatic sea carries
an English mind home to many a little watering-place upon our coast. In colour and the shape
of waves it resembles our Channel.

The seashore is Fano's great attraction; but the town has many churches, and some creditable
pictures, as well as Roman antiquities. Giovanni Santi may here be seen almost as well as at
Cagli; and of Perugino there is one truly magnificent altar-piece--lunette, great centre panel,
and predella--dusty in its present condition, but splendidly painted, and happily not yet restored
or cleaned. It is worth journeying to Fano to see this. Still better would the journey be worth
the traveller's while if he could be sure to witness such a game of Pallone as we chanced upon
in the Via dell'Arco di Augusto--lads and grown-men, tightly girt, in shirt sleeves, driving
the great ball aloft into the air with cunning bias and calculation of projecting house-eaves.
I do not understand the game; but it was clearly played something after the manner of our football,
that is to say, with sides, and front and back players so arranged as to cover the greatest
number of angles of incidence on either wall.

Fano still remembers that it is the Fane of Fortune. On the fountain in the market-place stands
a bronze Fortuna, slim and airy, offering her veil to catch the wind. May she long shower health
and prosperity upon the modern watering-place of which she is the patron saint!

FOOTNOTES:

[C] There is in reality no doubt or problem about this Saint Clair. She was born in 1275, and
joined the Augustinian Sisterhood, dying young, in 1308, as Abbess of her convent. Continual
and impassioned meditation on the Passion of our Lord impressed her heart with the signs of
His suffering which have been described above. I owe this note to the kindness of an anonymous
correspondent, whom I here thank.

THE PALACE OF URBINO.

I.

At Rimini, one spring, the impulse came upon my wife and me to make our way across San Marino
to Urbino. In the Piazza, called apocryphally after Julius Cæsar, I found a proper vetturino,
with a good carriage and two indefatigable horses. He was a splendid fellow, and bore a great
historic name, as I discovered when our bargain was completed. "What are you called?" I asked
him. "Filippo Visconti, per servirla!" was the prompt reply. Brimming over with the darkest
memories of the Italian Renaissance, I hesitated when I heard this answer. The associations
seemed too ominous. And yet the man himself was so attractive--tall, stalwart, and well-looking--no
feature of his face or limb of his athletic form recalling the gross tyrant who concealed worse
than Caligula's ugliness from sight in secret chambers--that I shook this preconception from
my mind. As it turned out, Filippo Visconti had nothing in common with his infamous namesake
but the name. On a long and trying journey, he showed neither sullen nor yet ferocious tempers;
nor, at the end of it, did he attempt by any masterstroke of craft to wheedle from me more
than his fair pay; but took the meerschaum pipe I gave him for a keepsake, with the frank good-will
of an accomplished gentleman. The only exhibition of his hot Italian blood which I remember
did his humanity credit. While we were ascending a steep hillside, he jumped from his box to
thrash a ruffian by the roadside for brutal treatment to a little boy. He broke his whip, it
is true, in this encounter; risked a dangerous quarrel; and left his carriage, with myself
and wife inside it, to the mercy of his horses in a somewhat perilous position. But when he
came back, hot and glowing, from this deed of justice, I could only applaud his zeal.

An Italian of this type, handsome as an antique statue, with the refinement of a modern gentleman
and that intelligence which is innate in a race of immemorial culture, is a fascinating being.
He may be absolutely ignorant in all book-learning. He may be as ignorant as a Bersagliere
from Montalcino with whom I once conversed at Rimini, who gravely said that he could walk in
three months to North America, and thought of doing it when his term of service was accomplished.
But he will display, as this young soldier did, a grace and ease of address which are rare
in London drawing-rooms; and by his shrewd remarks upon the cities he has visited, will show
that he possesses a fine natural taste for things of beauty. The speech of such men, drawn
from the common stock of the Italian people, is seasoned with proverbial sayings, the wisdom
of centuries condensed in a few nervous words. When emotion fires their brain, they break into
spontaneous eloquence, or suggest the motive of a poem by phrases pregnant with imagery.

For the first stage of the journey out of Rimini, Filippo's two horses sufficed. The road led
almost straight across the level between quickset hedges in white bloom. But when we reached
the long steep hill which ascends to San Marino, the inevitable oxen were called out, and we
toiled upwards leisurely through cornfields bright with red anemones and sweet narcissus. At
this point pomegranate hedges replaced the May-thorns of the plain. In course of time our bovi
brought us to the Borgo, or lower town, whence there is a further ascent of seven hundred feet
to the topmost hawk's-nest or acropolis of the republic. These we climbed on foot, watching
the view expand around us and beneath. Crags of limestone here break down abruptly to the rolling
hills, which go to lose themselves in field and shore. Misty reaches of the Adriatic close
the world to eastward. Cesena, Rimini, Verucchio, and countless hill-set villages, each isolated
on its tract of verdure conquered from the stern grey soil, define the points where Montefeltri
wrestled with Malatestas in long bygone years. Around are marly mountain-flanks in wrinkles
and gnarled convolutions like some giant's brain, furrowed by rivers crawling through dry wasteful
beds of shingle. Interminable ranges of gaunt Apennines stretch, tier by tier, beyond; and
over all this landscape, a grey-green mist of rising crops and new-fledged oak-trees lies like
a veil upon the nakedness of Nature's ruins.

Nothing in Europe conveys a more striking sense of geological antiquity than such a prospect.
The denudation and abrasion of innumerable ages, wrought by slow persistent action of weather
and water on an upheaved mountain mass, are here made visible. Every wave in that vast sea
of hills, every furrow in their worn flanks, tells its tale of a continuous corrosion still
in progress. The dominant impression is one of melancholy. We forget how Romans, countermarching
Carthaginians, trod the land beneath us. The marvel of San Marino, retaining independence through
the drums and tramplings of the last seven centuries, is swallowed in a deeper sense of wonder.
We turn instinctively in thought to Leopardi's musings on man's destiny at war with unknown
nature-forces and malignant rulers of the universe.

                   Omai disprezza
    Te, la natura, il brutto
    Poter che, ascoso, a comun danno impera,
    E l'infinita vanità dell tutto.

And then, straining our eyes southward, we sweep the dim blue distance for Recanati, and remember
that the poet of modern despair and discouragement was reared in even such a scene as this.

The town of San Marino is grey, narrow-streeted, simple; with a great, new, decent, Greek-porticoed
cathedral, dedicated to the eponymous saint. A certain austerity defines it from more picturesque
hill-cities with a less uniform history. There is a marble statue of S. Marino in the choir
of his church; and in his cell is shown the stone bed and pillow on which he took austere repose.
One narrow window near the saint's abode commands a proud but melancholy landscape of distant
hills and seaboard. To this, the great absorbing charm of San Marino, our eyes instinctively,
recurrently, take flight. It is a landscape which by variety and beauty thralls attention,
but which by its interminable sameness might grow almost overpowering. There is no relief.
The gladness shed upon far humbler Northern lands in May is ever absent here. The German word
Gemüthlichkeit, the English phrase "a home of ancient peace," are here alike by art and nature
untranslated into visibilities. And yet (as we who gaze upon it thus are fain to think) if
peradventure the intolerable ennui of this panorama should drive a citizen of San Marino into
outlands, the same view would haunt him whithersoever he went--the swallows of his native eyrie
would shrill through his sleep--he would yearn to breathe its fine keen air in winter, and
to watch its iris-hedges deck themselves with blue in spring;--like Virgil's hero, dying, he
would think of San Marino: Aspicit, et dulces moriens reminiscitur Argos. Even a passing stranger
may feel the mingled fascination and oppression of this prospect--the monotony which maddens,
the charm which at a distance grows upon the mind, environing it with memories.

Descending to the Borgo, we found that Filippo Visconti had ordered a luncheon of excellent
white bread, pigeons, and omelette, with the best red muscat wine I ever drank, unless the
sharp air of the hills deceived my appetite. An Italian history of San Marino, including its
statutes, in three volumes, furnished intellectual food. But I confess to having learned from
these pages little else than this: first, that the survival of the Commonwealth through all
phases of European politics had been semi-miraculous; secondly, that the most eminent San Marinesi
had been lawyers. It is possible on a hasty deduction from these two propositions (to which,
however, I am far from wishing to commit myself), that the latter is a sufficient explanation
of the former.

From San Marino the road plunges at a break-neck pace. We are now in the true Feltrian highlands,
whence the Counts of Montefeltro issued in the twelfth century. Yonder eyrie is San Leo, which
formed the key of entrance to the duchy of Urbino in campaigns fought many hundred years ago.
Perched on the crest of a precipitous rock, this fortress looks as though it might defy all
enemies but famine. And yet San Leo was taken and re-taken by strategy and fraud, when Montefeltro,
Borgia, Malatesta, Rovere, contended for dominion in these valleys. Yonder is Sta. Agata, the
village to which Guidobaldo fled by night when Valentino drove him from his dukedom. A little
farther towers Carpegna, where one branch of the Montefeltro house maintained a countship through
seven centuries, and only sold their fief to Rome in 1815. Monte Coppiolo lies behind, Pietra
Rubia in front: two other eagle's-nests of the same brood. What a road it is! It beats the
tracks on Exmoor. The uphill and downhill of Devonshire scorns compromise or mitigation by
détour and zigzag. But here geography is on a scale so far more vast, and the roadway is so
far worse metalled than with us in England--knotty masses of talc and nodes of sandstone cropping
up at dangerous turnings--that only Dante's words describe the journey:--

    Vassi in Sanleo, e discendesi in Noli,
    Montasi su Bismantova in cacume
    Con esso i piè; ma qui convien ch'uom voli.

Of a truth, our horses seemed rather to fly than scramble up and down these rugged precipices;
Visconti cheerily animating them with the brave spirit that was in him, and lending them his
wary driver's help of hand and voice at need.

We were soon upon a cornice-road between the mountains and the Adriatic: following the curves
of gulch and cleft ravine: winding round ruined castles set on points of vantage; the sea-line
high above their grass-grown battlements, the shadow-dappled champaign girdling their bastions
mortised on the naked rock. Except for the blue lights across the distance, and the ever-present
sea, these earthy Apennines would be too grim. Infinite air and this spare veil of spring-tide
greenery on field and forest soothe their sternness. Two rivers, swollen by late rains, had
to be forded. Through one of these, the Foglia, bare-legged peasants led the way. The horses
waded to their bellies in the tawny water. Then more hills and vales; green nooks with rippling
corn-crops; secular oaks attired in golden leafage. The clear afternoon air rang with the voices
of a thousand larks overhead. The whole world seemed quivering with light and delicate ethereal
sound. And yet my mind turned irresistibly to thoughts of war, violence, and pillage. How often
has this intermediate land been fought over by Montefeltro and Brancaleoni, by Borgia and Malatesta,
by Medici and Della Rovere! Its contadini are robust men, almost statuesque in build, and beautiful
of feature. No wonder that the Princes of Urbino, with such materials to draw from, sold their
service and their troops to Florence, Rome, S. Mark, and Milan. The bearing of these peasants
is still soldierly and proud. Yet they are not sullen or forbidding like the Sicilians, whose
habits of life, for the rest, much resemble theirs. The villages, there as here, are few and
far between, perched high on rocks, from which the folk descend to till the ground and reap
the harvest. But the southern brusquerie and brutality are absent from this district. The men
have something of the dignity and slow-eyed mildness of their own huge oxen. As evening fell,
more solemn Apennines upreared themselves to southward. The Monte d'Asdrubale, Monte Nerone,
and Monte Catria hove into sight. At last, when light was dim, a tower rose above the neighbouring
ridge, a broken outline of some city barred the sky-line. Urbino stood before us. Our long
day's march was at an end.

The sunset was almost spent, and a four days' moon hung above the western Apennines, when we
took our first view of the palace. It is a fancy-thralling work of wonder seen in that dim
twilight; like some castle reared by Atlante's magic for imprisonment of Ruggiero, or palace
sought in fairyland by Astolf winding his enchanted horn. Where shall we find its like, combining,
as it does, the buttressed battlemented bulk of mediæval strongholds with the airy balconies,
suspended gardens, and fantastic turrets of Italian pleasure-houses? This unique blending of
the feudal past with the Renaissance spirit of the time when it was built, connects it with
the art of Ariosto--or more exactly with Boiardo's epic. Duke Federigo planned his palace at
Urbino just at the moment when the Count of Scandiano had began to chaunt his lays of Roland
in the Castle of Ferrara. Chivalry, transmuted by the Italian genius into something fanciful
and quaint, survived as a frail work of art. The men-at-arms of the Condottieri still glittered
in gilded hauberks. Their helmets waved with plumes and bizarre crests. Their surcoats blazed
with heraldries; their velvet caps with medals bearing legendary emblems. The pomp and circumstance
of feudal war had not yet yielded to the cannon of the Gascon or the Switzer's pike. The fatal
age of foreign invasions had not begun for Italy. Within a few years Charles VIII.'s holiday
excursion would reveal the internal rottenness and weakness of her rival states, and the peninsula
for half a century to come would be drenched in the blood of Frenchmen, Germans, Spaniards,
fighting for her cities as their prey. But now Lorenzo de' Medici was still alive. The famous
policy which bears his name held Italy suspended for a golden time in false tranquillity and
independence. The princes who shared his culture and his love of art were gradually passing
into modern noblemen, abandoning the savage feuds and passions of more virile centuries, yielding
to luxury and scholarly enjoyments. The castles were becoming courts, and despotisms won by
force were settling into dynasties.

It was just at this epoch that Duke Federigo built his castle at Urbino. One of the ablest
and wealthiest Condottieri of his time, one of the best instructed and humanest of Italian
princes, he combined in himself the qualities which mark that period of transition. And these
he impressed upon his dwelling-house, which looks backward to the mediæval fortalice and forward
to the modern palace. This makes it the just embodiment in architecture of Italian romance,
the perfect analogue of the Orlando Innamorato. By comparing it with the castle of the Estes
at Ferrara and the Palazzo del Te of the Gonzagas at Mantua, we place it in its right position
between mediæval and Renaissance Italy, between the age when principalities arose upon the
ruins of commercial independence and the age when they became dynastic under Spain.

The exigencies of the ground at his disposal forced Federigo to give the building an irregular
outline. The fine façade, with its embayed logge and flanking turrets, is placed too close
upon the city ramparts for its due effect. We are obliged to cross the deep ravine which separates
it from a lower quarter of the town, and take our station near the Oratory of S. Giovanni Battista,
before we can appreciate the beauty of its design, or the boldness of the group it forms with
the cathedral dome and tower and the square masses of numerous out-buildings. Yet this peculiar
position of the palace, though baffling to a close observer of its details, is one of singular
advantage to the inhabitants. Set on the verge of Urbino's towering eminence, it fronts a wave-tossed
sea of vales and mountain summits toward the rising and the setting sun. There is nothing but
illimitable air between the terraces and loggias of the Duchess's apartments and the spreading
pyramid of Monte Catria.

A nobler scene is nowhere swept from palace windows than this, which Castiglione touched in
a memorable passage at the end of his Cortegiano. To one who in our day visits Urbino, it is
singular how the slight indications of this sketch, as in some silhouette, bring back the antique
life, and link the present with the past--a hint, perhaps, for reticence in our descriptions.
The gentlemen and ladies of the court had spent a summer night in long debate on love, rising
to the height of mystical Platonic rapture on the lips of Bembo, when one of them exclaimed,
"The day has broken!" "He pointed to the light which was beginning to enter by the fissures
of the windows. Whereupon we flung the casements wide upon that side of the palace which looks
toward the high peak of Monte Catria, and saw that a fair dawn of rosy hue was born already
in the eastern skies, and all the stars had vanished except the sweet regent of the heaven
of Venus, who holds the borderlands of day and night; and from her sphere it seemed as though
a gentle wind were breathing, filling the air with eager freshness, and waking among the numerous
woods upon the neighbouring hills the sweet-toned symphonies of joyous birds."

II.

The House of Montefeltro rose into importance early in the twelfth century. Frederick Barbarossa
erected their fief into a county in 1160. Supported by imperial favour, they began to exercise
an undefined authority over the district, which they afterwards converted into a duchy. But,
though Ghibelline for several generations, the Montefeltri were too near neighbours of the
Papal power to free themselves from ecclesiastical vassalage. Therefore in 1216 they sought
and obtained the title of Vicars of the Church. Urbino acknowledged them as semi-despots in
their double capacity of Imperial and Papal deputies. Cagli and Gubbio followed in the fourteenth
century. In the fifteenth, Castel Durante was acquired from the Brancaleoni by warfare, and
Fossombrone from the Malatestas by purchase. Numerous fiefs and villages fell into their hands
upon the borders of Rimini in the course of a continued struggle with the House of Malatesta:
and when Fano and Pesaro were added at the opening of the sixteenth century, the domain over
which they ruled was a compact territory, some forty miles square, between the Adriatic and
Apennines. From the close of the thirteenth century they bore the title of Counts of Urbino.
The famous Conte Guido, whom Dante placed among the fraudulent in hell, supported the honours
of the house and increased its power by his political action, at this epoch. But it was not
until the year 1443 that the Montefeltri acquired their ducal title. This was conferred by
Eugenius IV. upon Oddantonio, over whose alleged crimes and indubitable assassination a veil
of mystery still hangs. He was the son of Count Guidantonio, and at his death the Montefeltri
of Urbino were extinct in the legitimate line. A natural son of Guidantonio had been, however,
recognised in his father's lifetime, and married to Gentile, heiress of Mercatello. This was
Federigo, a youth of great promise, who succeeded his half-brother in 1444 as Count of Urbino.
It was not until 1474 that the ducal title was revived for him.

Duke Frederick was a prince remarkable among Italian despots for private virtues and sober
use of his hereditary power. He spent his youth at Mantua, in that famous school of Vittorino
da Feltre, where the sons and daughters of the first Italian nobility received a model education
in humanities, good manners, and gentle physical accomplishments. More than any of his fellow-students
Frederick profited by this rare scholar's discipline. On leaving school he adopted the profession
of arms, as it was then practised, and joined the troop of the Condottiere Niccolò Piccinino.
Young men of his own rank, especially the younger sons and bastards of ruling families, sought
military service under captains of adventure. If they succeeded they were sure to make money.
The coffers of the Church and the republics lay open to their not too scrupulous hands; the
wealth of Milan and Naples was squandered on them in retaining-fees and salaries for active
service. There was always the further possibility of placing a coronet upon their brows before
they died, if haply they should wrest a town from their employers, or obtain the cession of
a province from a needy Pope. The neighbours of the Montefeltri in Umbria, Romagna, and the
Marches of Ancona were all of them Condottieri. Malatestas of Rimini and Pesaro, Vitelli of
Città di Castello, Varani of Camerino, Baglioni of Perugia, to mention only a few of the most
eminent nobles, enrolled themselves under the banners of plebeian adventurers like Piccinino
and Sforza Attendolo. Though their family connections gave them a certain advantage, the system
was essentially democratic. Gattamelata and Carmagnola sprang from obscurity by personal address
and courage to the command of armies. Colleoni fought his way up from the grooms to princely
station and the bâton of S. Mark. Francesco Sforza, whose father had begun life as a tiller
of the soil, seized the ducal crown of Milan, and founded a house which ranked among the first
in Europe.

It is not needful to follow Duke Frederick in his military career. We may briefly remark that
when he succeeded to Urbino by his brother's death in 1444, he undertook generalship on a grand
scale. His own dominions supplied him with some of the best troops in Italy. He was careful
to secure the good-will of his subjects by attending personally to their interests, relieving
them of imposts, and executing equal justice. He gained the then unique reputation of an honest
prince, paternally disposed toward his dependants. Men flocked to his standards willingly,
and he was able to bring an important contingent into any army. These advantages secured for
him alliances with Francesco Sforza, and brought him successively into connection with Milan,
Venice, Florence, the Church of Naples. As a tactician in the field he held high rank among
the generals of the age, and so considerable were his engagements that he acquired great wealth
in the exercise of his profession. We find him at one time receiving 8000 ducats a month as
war-pay from Naples, with a peace pension of 6000. While Captain-General of the League, he
drew for his own use in war 45,000 ducats of annual pay. Retaining-fees and pensions in the
name of past services swelled his income, the exact extent of which has not, so far as I am
aware, been estimated, but which must have made him one of the richest of Italian princes.
All this wealth he spent upon his duchy, fortifying its cities, drawing youths of promise to
his court, maintaining a great train of life, and keeping his vassals in good-humour by the
lightness of a rule which contrasted favourably with the exactions of needier despots.

While fighting for the masters who offered him condotta in the complicated wars of Italy, Duke
Frederick used his arms, when occasion served, in his own quarrels. Many years of his life
were spent in a prolonged struggle with his neighbour Sigismondo Pandolfo Malatesta, the bizarre
and brilliant tyrant of Rimini, who committed the fatal error of embroiling himself beyond
all hope of pardon with the Church, and who died discomfited in the duel with his warier antagonist.
Urbino profited by each mistake of Sigismondo, and the history of this long desultory strife
with Rimini is a history of gradual aggrandisement and consolidation for the Montefeltrian duchy.

In 1459, Duke Frederick married his second wife, Battista, daughter of Alessandro Sforza, Lord
of Pesaro. Their portraits, painted by Piero della Francesca, are to be seen in the Uffizzi.
Some years earlier, Frederick lost his right eye and had the bridge of his nose broken in a
jousting match outside the town-gate of Urbino. After this accident, he preferred to be represented
in profile--the profile so well known to students of Italian art on medals and bas-reliefs.
It was not without medical aid and vows fulfilled by a mother's self-sacrifice to death, if
we may trust the diarists of Urbino, that the ducal couple got an heir. In 1472, however a
son was born to them, whom they christened Guido Paolo Ubaldo. He proved a youth of excellent
parts and noble nature--apt at study, perfect in all chivalrous accomplishments. But he inherited
some fatal physical debility, and his life was marred with a constitutional disease, which
then received the name of gout, and which deprived him of the free use of his limbs. After
his father's death in 1482, Naples, Florence, and Milan continued Frederick's war engagements
to Guidobaldo. The prince was but a boy of ten. Therefore these important condotte must be
regarded as compliments and pledges for the future. They prove to what a pitch Duke Frederick
had raised the credit of his state and war establishment. Seven years later, Guidobaldo married
Elisabetta, daughter of Francesco Gonzaga, Marquis of Mantua. This union, though a happy one,
was never blessed with children; and in the certainty of barrenness, the young Duke thought
it prudent to adopt a nephew as heir to his dominions. He had several sisters, one of whom,
Giovanna, had been married to a nephew of Sixtus IV., Giovanni della Rovere, Lord of Sinigaglia
and Prefect of Rome. They had a son, Francesco Maria, who, after his adoption by Guidobaldo,
spent his boyhood at Urbino.

The last years of the fifteenth century were marked by the sudden rise of Cesare Borgia to
a power which threatened the liberties of Italy. Acting as General for the Church, he carried
his arms against the petty tyrants of Romagna, whom he dispossessed and extirpated. His next
move was upon Camerino and Urbino. He first acquired Camerino, having lulled Guidobaldo into
false security by treacherous professions of good-will. Suddenly the Duke received intelligence
that the Borgia was marching on him over Cagli. This was in the middle of June 1502. It is
difficult to comprehend the state of weakness in which Guidobaldo was surprised, or the panic
which then seized him. He made no efforts to rouse his subjects to resistance, but fled by
night with his nephew through rough mountain roads, leaving his capital and palace to the marauder.
Cesare Borgia took possession without striking a blow, and removed the treasures of Urbino
to the Vatican. His occupation of the duchy was not undisturbed, however; for the people rose
in several places against him, proving that Guidobaldo had yielded too hastily to alarm. By
this time the fugitive was safe in Mantua, whence he returned, and for a short time succeeded
in establishing himself again at Urbino. But he could not hold his own against the Borgias,
and in December, by a treaty, he resigned his claims and retired to Venice, where he lived
upon the bounty of S. Mark. It must be said, in justice to the Duke, that his constitutional
debility rendered him unfit for active operations in the field. Perhaps he could not have done
better than thus to bend beneath the storm.

The sudden death of Alexander VI. and the election of a Della Rovere to the Papacy in 1503
changed Guidobaldo's prospects. Julius II. was the sworn foe of the Borgias and the close kinsman
of Urbino's heir. It was therefore easy for the Duke to walk into his empty palace on the hill,
and to reinstate himself in the domains from which he had so recently been ousted. The rest
of his life was spent in the retirement of his court, surrounded with the finest scholars and
the noblest gentlemen of Italy. The ill-health which debarred him from the active pleasures
and employments of his station, was borne with uniform sweetness of temper and philosophy.

When he died, in 1508, his nephew, Francesco Maria della Rovere, succeeded to the duchy, and
once more made the palace of Urbino the resort of men-at-arms and captains. He was a prince
of very violent temper: of its extravagance history has recorded three remarkable examples.
He murdered the Cardinal of Pavia with his own hand in the streets of Ravenna; stabbed a lover
of his sister to death at Urbino; and in a council of war knocked Francesco Guicciardini down
with a blow of his fist. When the history of Italy came to be written, Guicciardini was probably
mindful of that insult, for he painted Francesco Maria's character and conduct in dark colours.
At the same time this Duke of Urbino passed for one of the first generals of the age. The greatest
stain upon his memory is his behaviour in the year 1527, when, by dilatory conduct of the campaign
in Lombardy, he suffered the passage of Frundsberg's army unopposed, and afterwards hesitated
to relieve Rome from the horrors of the sack. He was the last Italian Condottiere of the antique
type; and the vices which Machiavelli exposed in that bad system of mercenary warfare were
illustrated on these occasions. During his lifetime, the conditions of Italy were so changed
by Charles V.'s imperial settlement in 1530, that the occupation of Condottiere ceased to have
any meaning. Strozzi and Farnesi, who afterwards followed this profession, enlisted in the
ranks of France or Spain, and won their laurels in Northern Europe.

While Leo X. held the Papal chair, the duchy of Urbino was for a while wrested from the house
of Della Rovere, and conferred upon Lorenzo de' Medici. Francesco Maria made a better fight
for his heritage than Guidobaldo had done. Yet he could not successfully resist the power of
Rome. The Pope was ready to spend enormous sums of money on this petty war; the Duke's purse
was shorter, and the mercenary troops he was obliged to use, proved worthless in the field.
Spaniards, for the most part, pitted against Spaniards, they suffered the campaigns to degenerate
into a guerrilla warfare of pillage and reprisals. In 1517 the duchy was formally ceded to
Lorenzo. But this Medici did not live long to enjoy it, and his only child Catherine, the future
Queen of France, never exercised the rights which had devolved upon her by inheritance. The
shifting scene of Italy beheld Francesco Maria reinstated in Urbino after Leo's death in 1522.

This Duke married Leonora Gonzaga, a princess of the house of Mantua. Their portraits, painted
by Titian, adorn the Venetian room of the Uffizzi. Of their son, Guidobaldo II., little need
be said. He was twice married, first to Giulia Varano, Duchess by inheritance of Camerino;
secondly, to Vittoria Farnese, daughter of the Duke of Parma. Guidobaldo spent a lifetime in
petty quarrels with his subjects, whom he treated badly, attempting to draw from their pockets
the wealth which his father and the Montefeltri had won in military service. He intervened
at an awkward period of Italian politics. The old Italy of despots, commonwealths, and Condottieri,
in which his predecessors played substantial parts, was at an end. The new Italy of Popes and
Austro-Spanish dynasties had hardly settled into shape. Between these epochs, Guidobaldo II.,
of whom we have a dim and hazy presentation on the page of history, seems somehow to have fallen
flat. As a sign of altered circumstances, he removed his court to Pesaro, and built the great
palace of the Della Roveres upon the public square.

Guidobaldaccio, as he was called, died in 1574, leaving an only son, Francesco Maria II., whose
life and character illustrate the new age which had begun for Italy. He was educated in Spain
at the court of Philip II., where he spent more than two years. When he returned, his Spanish
haughtiness, punctilious attention to etiquette, and superstitious piety attracted observation.
The violent temper of the Della Roveres, which Francesco Maria I. displayed in acts of homicide,
and which had helped to win his bad name for Guidobaldaccio, took the form of sullenness in
the last Duke. The finest episode in his life was the part he played in the battle of Lepanto,
under his old comrade, Don John of Austria. His father forced him to an uncongenial marriage
with Lucrezia d'Este, Princess of Ferrara. She left him, and took refuge in her native city,
then honoured by the presence of Tasso and Guarini. He bore her departure with philosophical
composure, recording the event in his diary as something to be dryly grateful for. Left alone,
the Duke abandoned himself to solitude, religious exercises, hunting, and the economy of his
impoverished dominions. He became that curious creature, a man of narrow nature and mediocre
capacity, who, dedicated to the cult of self, is fain to pass for saint and sage in easy circumstances.
He married, for the second time, a lady, Livia della Rovere, who belonged to his own family,
but had been born in private station. She brought him one son, the Prince Federigo-Ubaldo.
This youth might have sustained the ducal honours of Urbino, but for his sage-saint father's
want of wisdom. The boy was a spoiled child in infancy. Inflated with Spanish vanity from the
cradle, taught to regard his subjects as dependants on a despot's will, abandoned to the caprices
of his own ungovernable temper, without substantial aid from the paternal piety or stoicism,
he rapidly became a most intolerable princeling. His father married him, while yet a boy, to
Claudia de' Medici, and virtually abdicated in his favour. Left to his own devices, Federigo
chose companions from the troupes of players whom he drew from Venice. He filled his palaces
with harlots, and degraded himself upon the stage in parts of mean buffoonery. The resources
of the duchy were racked to support these parasites. Spanish rules of etiquette and ceremony
were outraged by their orgies. His bride brought him one daughter, Vittoria, who afterwards
became the wife of Ferdinand, Grand Duke of Tuscany. Then in the midst of his low dissipation
and offences against ducal dignity, he died of apoplexy at the early age of eighteen--the victim,
in the severe judgment of history, of his father's selfishness and want of practical ability.

This happened in 1623. Francesco Maria was stunned by the blow. His withdrawal from the duties
of the sovereignty in favour of such a son had proved a constitutional unfitness for the duties
of his station. The life he loved was one of seclusion in a round of pious exercises, petty
studies, peddling economies, and mechanical amusements. A powerful and grasping Pope was on
the throne of Rome. Urban at this juncture pressed Francesco Maria hard; and in 1624 the last
Duke of Urbino devolved his lordships to the Holy See. He survived the formal act of abdication
seven years; when he died, the Pontiff added his duchy to the Papal States, which thenceforth
stretched from Naples to the bounds of Venice on the Po.

III.

Duke Frederick began the palace at Urbino in 1454, when he was still only Count. The architect
was Luziano of Lauranna, a Dalmatian; and the beautiful white limestone, hard as marble, used
in the construction, was brought from the Dalmatian coast. This stone, like the Istrian stone
of Venetian buildings, takes and retains the chisel mark with wonderful precision. It looks
as though, when fresh, it must have had the pliancy of clay, so delicately are the finest curves
in scroll or foliage scooped from its substance. And yet it preserves each cusp and angle of
the most elaborate pattern with the crispness and the sharpness of a crystal. When wrought
by a clever craftsman, its surface has neither the waxiness of Parian, nor the brittle edge
of Carrara marble; and it resists weather better than marble of the choicest quality. This
may be observed in many monuments of Venice, where the stone has been long exposed to sea-air.
These qualities of the Dalmatian limestone, no less than its agreeable creamy hue and smooth
dull polish, adapt it to decoration in low relief. The most attractive details in the palace
at Urbino are friezes carved of this material in choice designs of early Renaissance dignity
and grace. One chimney-piece in the Sala degli Angeli deserves especial comment. A frieze of
dancing Cupids, with gilt hair and wings, their naked bodies left white on a ground of ultra-marine,
is supported by broad flat pilasters. These are engraved with children holding pots of flowers;
roses on one side, carnations on the other. Above the frieze another pair of angels, one at
each end, hold lighted torches; and the pyramidal cap of the chimney is carved with two more,
flying, and supporting the eagle of the Montefeltri on a raised medallion. Throughout the palace
we notice emblems appropriate to the Houses of Montefeltro and Della Rovere: their arms, three
golden bends upon a field of azure: the Imperial eagle, granted when Montefeltro was made a
fief of the Empire: the Garter of England, worn by the Dukes Federigo and Guidobaldo: the ermine
of Naples: the ventosa, or cupping-glass, adopted for a private badge by Frederick: the golden
oak-tree on an azure field of Della Rovere: the palm-tree, bent beneath a block of stone, with
its accompanying motto, Inclinata Resurgam: the cypher, FE DX. Profile medallions of Federigo
and Guidobaldo, wrought in the lowest possible relief, adorn the staircases. Round the great
courtyard runs a frieze of military engines and ensigns, trophies, machines, and implements
of war, alluding to Duke Frederick's profession of Condottiere. The doorways are enriched with
scrolls of heavy-headed flowers, acanthus foliage, honeysuckles, ivy-berries, birds and boys
and sphinxes, in all the riot of Renaissance fancy.

This profusion of sculptured rilievo is nearly all that remains to show how rich the palace
was in things of beauty. Castiglione, writing in the reign of Guidobaldo, says that "in the
opinion of many it is the fairest to be found in Italy; and the Duke filled it so well with
all things fitting its magnificence, that it seemed less like a palace than a city. Not only
did he collect articles of common use, vessels of silver, and trappings for chambers of rare
cloths of gold and silk, and such like furniture, but he added multitudes of bronze and marble
statues, exquisite pictures, and instruments of music of all sorts. There was nothing but was
of the finest and most excellent quality to be seen there. Moreover, he gathered together at
a vast cost a large number of the best and rarest books in Greek, Latin, and Hebrew, all of
which he adorned with gold and silver, esteeming them the chiefest treasure of his spacious
palace." When Cesare Borgia entered Urbino as conqueror in 1502, he is said to have carried
off loot to the value of 150,000 ducats, or perhaps about a quarter of a million sterling.
Vespasiano, the Florentine bookseller, has left us a minute account of the formation of the
famous library of MSS., which he valued at considerably over 30,000 ducats. Yet wandering now
through these deserted halls, we seek in vain for furniture or tapestry or works of art. The
books have been removed to Rome. The pictures are gone, no man knows whither. The plate has
long been melted down. The instruments of music are broken. If frescoes adorned the corridors,
they have been whitewashed; the ladies' chambers have been stripped of their rich arras. Only
here and there we find a raftered ceiling, painted in fading colours, which, taken with the
stonework of the chimney, and some fragments of inlaid panel-work on door or window, enables
us to reconstruct the former richness of these princely rooms.

Exception must be made in favour of two apartments between the towers upon the southern façade.
These were apparently the private rooms of the Duke and Duchess, and they are still approached
by a great winding staircase in one of the torricini. Adorned in indestructible or irremovable
materials, they retain some traces of their ancient splendour. On the first floor, opening
on the vaulted loggia, we find a little chapel encrusted with lovely work in stucco and marble;
friezes of bulls, sphinxes, sea-horses, and foliage; with a low relief of Madonna and Child
in the manner of Mino da Fiesole. Close by is a small study with inscriptions to the Muses
and Apollo. The cabinet connecting these two cells has a Latin legend, to say that Religion
here dwells near the temple of the liberal arts:

    Bina vides parvo discrimine juncta sacella,
      Altera pars Musis altera sacra Deo est.

On the floor above, corresponding in position to this apartment, is a second, of even greater
interest, since it was arranged by the Duke Frederick for his own retreat. The study is panelled
in tarsia of beautiful design and execution. Three of the larger compartments show Faith, Hope,
and Charity; figures not unworthy of a Botticelli or a Filippino Lippi. The occupations of
the Duke are represented on a smaller scale by armour, bâtons of command, scientific instruments,
lutes, viols, and books, some open and some shut. The Bible, Homer, Virgil, Seneca, Tacitus,
and Cicero, are lettered; apparently to indicate his favourite authors. The Duke himself, arrayed
in his state robes, occupies a fourth great panel; and the whole of this elaborate composition
is harmonised by emblems, badges, and occasional devices of birds, articles of furniture, and
so forth. The tarsia, or inlaid wood of different kinds and colours, is among the best in this
kind of art to be found in Italy, though perhaps it hardly deserves to rank with the celebrated
choir-stalls of Bergamo and Monte Oliveto. Hard by is a chapel, adorned, like the lower one,
with excellent reliefs. The Loggia to which these rooms have access looks across the Apennines,
and down on what was once a private garden. It is now enclosed and paved for the exercise of
prisoners who are confined in one part of the desecrated palace!

A portion of the pile is devoted to more worthy purposes; for the Academy of Raphael here holds
its sittings, and preserves a collection of curiosities and books illustrative of the great
painter's life and works. They have recently placed in a tiny oratory, scooped by Guidobaldo
II. from the thickness of the wall, a cast of Raphael's skull, which will be studied with interest
and veneration. It has the fineness of modelling combined with shapeliness of form and smallness
of scale which is said to have characterised Mozart and Shelley.

The impression left upon the mind after traversing this palace in its length and breadth is
one of weariness and disappointment. How shall we reconstruct the long-past life which filled
its rooms with sound, the splendour of its pageants, the thrill of tragedies enacted here?
It is not difficult to crowd its doors and vacant spaces with liveried servants, slim pages
in tight hose, whose well-combed hair escapes from tiny caps upon their silken shoulders. We
may even replace the tapestries of Troy which hung one hall, and build again the sideboards
with their embossed gilded plate. But are these chambers really those where Emilia Pia held
debate on love with Bembo and Castiglione; where Bibbiena's witticisms and Fra Serafino's pranks
raised smiles on courtly lips; where Bernardo Accolti, "the Unique," declaimed his verses to
applauding crowds? Is it possible that into yonder hall, where now the lion of S. Mark looks
down alone on staring desolation, strode the Borgia in all his panoply of war, a gilded glittering
dragon, and from the daïs tore the Montefeltri's throne, and from the arras stripped their
ensigns, replacing these with his own Bull and Valentinus Dux? Here Tasso tuned his lyre for
Francesco Maria's wedding-feast, and read "Aminta" to Lucrezia d'Este. Here Guidobaldo listened
to the jests and whispered scandals of the Aretine. Here Titian set his easel up to paint;
here the boy Raphael, cap in hand, took signed and sealed credentials from his Duchess to the
Gonfalonier of Florence. Somewhere in these huge chambers, the courtiers sat before a torch-lit
stage, when Bibbiena's "Calandria" and Castiglione's "Tirsi," with their miracles of masques
and mummers, whiled the night away. Somewhere, we know not where, Giuliano de' Medici made
love in these bare rooms to that mysterious mother of ill-fated Cardinal Ippolito; somewhere,
in some darker nook, the bastard Alessandro sprang to his strange-fortuned life of tyranny
and license, which Brutus-Lorenzino cut short with a traitor's poignard-thrust in Via Larga.
How many men, illustrious for arts and letters, memorable by their virtues or their crimes,
have trod these silent corridors, from the great Pope Julius down to James III., self-titled
King of England, who tarried here with Clementina Sobieski through some twelve months of his
ex-royal exile! The memories of all this folk, flown guests and masters of the still-abiding
palace-chambers, haunt us as we hurry through. They are but filmy shadows. We cannot grasp
them, localise them, people surrounding emptiness with more than withering cobweb forms.

Death takes a stronger hold on us than bygone life. Therefore, returning to the vast Throne-room,
we animate it with one scene it witnessed on an April night in 1508. Duke Guidobaldo had died
at Fossombrone, repeating to his friends around his bed these lines of Virgil:

    Me circum limus niger et deformis arundo
    Cocyti tardaque palus inamabilis unda
    Alligat, et novies Styx interfusa coercet.

His body had been carried on the shoulders of servants through those mountain ways at night,
amid the lamentations of gathering multitudes and the baying of dogs from hill-set farms alarmed
by flaring flambeaux. Now it is laid in state in the great hall. The daïs and the throne are
draped in black. The arms and bâtons of his father hang about the doorways. His own ensigns
are displayed in groups and trophies, with the banners of S. Mark, the Montefeltrian eagle,
and the cross keys of S. Peter. The hall itself is vacant, save for the high-reared catafalque
of sable velvet and gold damask, surrounded with wax-candles burning steadily. Round it passes
a ceaseless stream of people, coming and going, gazing at their Duke. He is attired in crimson
hose and doublet of black damask. Black velvet slippers are on his feet, and his ducal cap
is of black velvet. The mantle of the Garter, made of dark-blue Alexandrine velvet, hooded
with crimson, lined with white silk damask, and embroidered with the badge, drapes the stiff
sleeping form.

It is easier to conjure up the past of this great palace, strolling round it in free air and
twilight; perhaps because the landscape and the life still moving on the city streets bring
its exterior into harmony with real existence. The southern façade, with its vaulted balconies
and flanking towers, takes the fancy, fascinates the eye, and lends itself as a fit stage for
puppets of the musing mind. Once more imagination plants trim orange-trees in giant jars of
Gubbio ware upon the pavement where the garden of the Duchess lay--the pavement paced in these
bad days by convicts in grey canvas jackets--that pavement where Monsignor Bembo courted "dear
dead women" with Platonic phrase, smothering the Menta of his natural man in lettuce culled
from Academe and thyme of Mount Hymettus. In yonder loggia, lifted above the garden and the
court, two lovers are in earnest converse. They lean beneath the coffered arch, against the
marble of the balustrade, he fingering his dagger under the dark velvet doublet, she playing
with a clove carnation, deep as her own shame. The man is Giannandrea, broad-shouldered bravo
of Verona, Duke Guidobaldo's favourite and carpet-count. The lady is Madonna Maria, daughter
of Rome's Prefect, widow of Venanzio Varano, whom the Borgia strangled. On their discourse
a tale will hang of woman's frailty and man's boldness--Camerino's Duchess yielding to a low-born
suitor's stalwart charms. And more will follow, when that lady's brother, furious Francesco
Maria della Rovere, shall stab the bravo in torch-litten palace rooms with twenty poignard
strokes twixt waist and throat, and their Pandarus shall be sent down to his account by a varlet's
coltellata through the midriff. Imagination shifts the scene, and shows in that same loggia
Rome's warlike Pope, attended by his cardinals and all Urbino's chivalry. The snowy beard of
Julius flows down upon his breast, where jewels clasp the crimson mantle, as in Raphael's picture.
His eyes are bright with wine; for he has come to gaze on sunset from the banquet-chamber,
and to watch the line of lamps which soon will leap along that palace cornice in his honour.
Behind him lies Bologna humbled. The Pope returns, a conqueror, to Rome. Yet once again imagination
is at work. A gaunt, bald man, close-habited in Spanish black, his spare, fine features carved
in purest ivory, leans from that balcony. Gazing with hollow eyes, he tracks the swallows in
their flight, and notes that winter is at hand. This is the last Duke of Urbino, Francesco
Maria II., he whose young wife deserted him, who made for himself alone a hermit-pedant's round
of petty cares and niggard avarice and mean-brained superstition. He drew a second consort
from the convent, and raised up seed unto his line by forethought, but beheld his princeling
fade untimely in the bloom of boyhood. Nothing is left but solitude. To the mortmain of the
Church reverts Urbino's lordship, and even now he meditates the terms of devolution. Jesuits
cluster in the rooms behind, with comfort for the ducal soul and calculations for the interests
of Holy See.

A farewell to these memories of Urbino's dukedom should be taken in the crypt of the cathedral,
where Francesco Maria II., the last Duke, buried his only son and all his temporal hopes. The
place is scarcely solemn. Its dreary barocco emblems mar the dignity of death. A bulky Pietà
by Gian Bologna, with Madonna's face unfinished, towers up and crowds the narrow cell. Religion
has evanished from this late Renaissance art, nor has the after-glow of Guido Reni's hectic
piety yet overflushed it. Chilled by the stifling humid sense of an extinct race here entombed
in its last representative, we gladly emerge from the sepulchral vault into the air of day.

Filippo Visconti, with a smile on his handsome face, is waiting for us at the inn. His horses,
sleek, well-fed, and rested, toss their heads impatiently. We take our seats in the carriage,
open wide beneath a sparkling sky, whirl past the palace and its ghost-like recollections,
and are half way on the road to Fossombrone in a cloud of dust and whirr of wheels before we
think of looking back to greet Urbino. There is just time. The last decisive turning lies in
front. We stand bare-headed to salute the grey mass of buildings ridged along the sky. Then
the open road invites us with its varied scenery and movement. From the shadowy past we drive
into the world of human things, for ever changefully unchanged, unrestfully the same. This
interchange between dead memories and present life is the delight of travel.

A VENETIAN MEDLEY.

I.--FIRST IMPRESSIONS AND FAMILIARITY.

It is easy to feel and to say something obvious about Venice. The influence of this sea-city
is unique, immediate, and unmistakable. But to express the sober truth of those impressions
which remain when the first astonishment of the Venetian revelation has subsided, when the
spirit of the place has been harmonised through familiarity with our habitual mood, is difficult.

Venice inspires at first an almost Corybantic rapture. From our earliest visits, if these have
been measured by days rather than weeks, we carry away with us the memory of sunsets emblazoned
in gold and crimson upon cloud and water; of violet domes and bell-towers etched against the
orange of a western sky; of moonlight silvering breeze-rippled breadths of liquid blue; of
distant islands shimmering in sunlitten haze; of music and black gliding boats; of labyrinthine
darkness made for mysteries of love and crime; of statue-fretted palace fronts; of brazen clangour
and a moving crowd; of pictures by earth's proudest painters, cased in gold on walls of council
chambers where Venice sat enthroned a queen, where nobles swept the floors with robes of Tyrian
brocade. These reminiscences will be attended by an ever-present sense of loneliness and silence
in the world around; the sadness of a limitless horizon, the solemnity of an unbroken arch
of heaven, the calm and greyness of evening on the lagoons, the pathos of a marble city crumbling
to its grave in mud and brine.

These first impressions of Venice are true. Indeed they are inevitable. They abide, and form
a glowing background for all subsequent pictures, toned more austerely, and painted in more
lasting hues of truth upon the brain. Those have never felt Venice at all who have not known
this primal rapture, or who perhaps expected more of colour, more of melodrama, from a scene
which nature and the art of man have made the richest in these qualities. Yet the mood engendered
by this first experience is not destined to be permanent. It contains an element of unrest
and unreality which vanishes upon familiarity. From the blare of that triumphal bourdon of
brass instruments emerge the delicate voices of violin and clarinette. To the contrasted passions
of our earliest love succeed a multitude of sweet and fanciful emotions. It is my present purpose
to recapture some of the impressions made by Venice in more tranquil moods. Memory might be
compared to a kaleidoscope. Far away from Venice I raise the wonder-working tube, allow the
glittering fragments to settle as they please, and with words attempt to render something of
the patterns I behold.

II.--A LODGING IN SAN VIO.

I have escaped from the hotels with their bustle of tourists and crowded tables-d'hôte. My
garden stretches down to the Grand Canal, closed at the end with a pavilion, where I lounge
and smoke and watch the cornice of the Prefettura fretted with gold in sunset light. My sitting-room
and bed-room face the southern sun. There is a canal below, crowded with gondolas, and across
its bridge the good folk of San Vio come and go the whole day long--men in blue shirts with
enormous hats, and jackets slung on their left shoulder; women in kerchiefs of orange and crimson.
Bare-legged boys sit upon the parapet, dangling their feet above the rising tide. A hawker
passes, balancing a basket full of live and crawling crabs. Barges filled with Brenta water
or Mirano wine take up their station at the neighbouring steps, and then ensues a mighty splashing
and hurrying to and fro of men with tubs upon their heads. The brawny fellows in the winebarge
are red from brows to breast with drippings of the vat. And now there is a bustle in the quarter.
A barca has arrived from S. Erasmo, the island of the market-gardens. It is piled with gourds
and pumpkins, cabbages and tomatoes, pomegranates and pears--a pyramid of gold and green and
scarlet. Brown men lift the fruit aloft, and women bending from the pathway bargain for it.
A clatter of chaffering tongues, a ring of coppers, a Babel of hoarse sea-voices, proclaim
the sharpness of the struggle. When the quarter has been served, the boat sheers off diminished
in its burden. Boys and girls are left seasoning their polenta with a slice of zucca, while
the mothers of a score of families go pattering up yonder courtyard with the material for their
husbands' supper in their handkerchiefs. Across the canal, or more correctly the Rio, opens
a wide grass-grown court. It is lined on the right hand by a row of poor dwellings, swarming
with gondoliers' children. A garden wall runs along the other side, over which I can see pomegranate-trees
in fruit and pergolas of vines. Far beyond are more low houses, and then the sky, swept with
sea-breezes, and the masts of an ocean-going ship against the dome and turrets of Palladio's
Redentore.

This is my home. By day it is as lively as a scene in Masaniello. By night, after nine o'clock,
the whole stir of the quarter has subsided. Far away I hear the bell of some church tell the
hours. But no noise disturbs my rest, unless perhaps a belated gondolier moors his boat beneath
the window. My one maid, Catina, sings at her work the whole day through. My gondolier, Francesco,
acts as valet. He wakes me in the morning, opens the shutters, brings sea-water for my bath,
and takes his orders for the day. "Will it do for Chioggia, Francesco;" "Sissignore! The Signorino
has set off in his sandolo already with Antonio. The Signora is to go with us in the gondola."
"Then get three more men, Francesco, and see that all of them can sing."

III.--TO CHIOGGIA WITH OAR AND SAIL.

The sandolo is a boat shaped like the gondola, but smaller and lighter, without benches, and
without the high steel prow or ferro which distinguishes the gondola. The gunwale is only just
raised above the water, over which the little craft skims with a rapid bounding motion, affording
an agreeable variation from the stately swan-like movement of the gondola. In one of these
boats--called by him the Fisolo or Seamew--my friend Eustace had started with Antonio, intending
to row the whole way to Chioggia, or, if the breeze favoured, to hoist a sail and help himself
along. After breakfast, when the crew for my gondola had been assembled, Francesco and I followed
with the Signora. It was one of those perfect mornings which occur as a respite from broken
weather, when the air is windless and the light falls soft through haze on the horizon. As
we broke into the lagoon behind the Redentore, the islands in front of us, S. Spirito, Poveglia,
Malamocco, seemed as though they were just lifted from the sea-line. The Euganeans, far away
to westward, were bathed in mist, and almost blent with the blue sky. Our four rowers put their
backs into their work; and soon we reached the port of Malamocco, where a breeze from the Adriatic
caught us sideways for a while. This is the largest of the breaches in the Lidi, or raised
sand-reefs, which protect Venice from the sea: it affords an entrance to vessels of draught
like the steamers of the Peninsular and Oriental Company. We crossed the dancing wavelets of
the port; but when we passed under the lee of Pelestrina, the breeze failed, and the lagoon
was once again a sheet of undulating glass. At S. Pietro on this island a halt was made to
give the oarsmen wine, and here we saw the women at their cottage doorways making lace. The
old lace industry of Venice has recently been revived. From Burano and Pelestrina cargoes of
hand-made imitations of the ancient fabrics are sent at intervals to Jesurun's magazine at
S. Marco. He is the chief impresario of the trade, employing hundreds of hands, and speculating
for a handsome profit in the foreign market on the price he gives his workwomen.

Now we are well lost in the lagoons--Venice no longer visible behind; the Alps and Euganeans
shrouded in a noonday haze; the lowlands at the mouth of Brenta marked by clumps of trees ephemerally
faint in silver silhouette against the filmy, shimmering horizon. Form and colour have disappeared
in light-irradiated vapour of an opal hue. And yet instinctively we know that we are not at
sea; the different quality of the water, the piles emerging here and there above the surface,
the suggestion of coast-lines scarcely felt in this infinity of lustre, all remind us that
our voyage is confined to the charmed limits of an inland lake. At length the jutting headland
of Pelestrina was reached. We broke across the Porto di Chioggia, and saw Chioggia itself ahead--a
huddled mass of houses low upon the water. One by one, as we rowed steadily, the fishing-boats
passed by, emerging from their harbour for a twelve hours' cruise upon the open sea. In a long
line they came, with variegated sails of orange, red, and saffron, curiously chequered at the
corners, and cantled with devices in contrasted tints. A little land-breeze carried them forward.
The lagoon reflected their deep colours till they reached the port. Then, slightly swerving
eastward on their course, but still in single file, they took the sea and scattered, like beautiful
bright-plumaged birds, who from a streamlet float into a lake, and find their way at large
according as each wills.

The Signorino and Antonio, though want of wind obliged them to row the whole way from Venice,
had reached Chioggia an hour before, and stood waiting to receive us on the quay. It is a quaint
town this Chioggia, which has always lived a separate life from that of Venice. Language and
race and customs have held the two populations apart from those distant years when Genoa and
the Republic of S. Mark fought their duel to the death out in the Chioggian harbours, down
to these days, when your Venetian gondolier will tell you that the Chioggoto loves his pipe
more than his donna or his wife. The main canal is lined with substantial palaces, attesting
to old wealth and comfort. But from Chioggia, even more than from Venice, the tide of modern
luxury and traffic has retreated. The place is left to fishing folk and builders of the fishing
craft, whose wharves still form the liveliest quarter. Wandering about its wide deserted courts
and calli, we feel the spirit of the decadent Venetian nobility. Passages from Goldoni's and
Casanova's Memoirs occur to our memory. It seems easy to realise what they wrote about the
dishevelled gaiety and lawless license of Chioggia in the days of powder, sword-knot, and soprani.
Baffo walks beside us in hypocritical composure of bag-wig and senatorial dignity, whispering
unmentionable sonnets in his dialect of Xe and Ga. Somehow or another that last dotage of S.
Mark's decrepitude is more recoverable by our fancy than the heroism of Pisani in the fourteenth
century.

From his prison in blockaded Venice the great admiral was sent forth on a forlorn hope, and
blocked victorious Doria here with boats on which the nobles of the Golden Book had spent their
fortunes. Pietro Doria boasted that with his own hands he would bridle the bronze horses of
S. Mark. But now he found himself between the navy of Carlo Zeno in the Adriatic and the flotilla
led by Vittore Pisani across the lagoon. It was in vain that the Republic of S. George strained
every nerve to send him succour from the Ligurian sea; in vain that the lords of Padua kept
opening communications with him from the mainland. From the 1st of January 1380 till the 21st
of June the Venetians pressed the blockade ever closer, grappling their foemen in a grip that
if relaxed one moment would have hurled him at their throats. The long and breathless struggle
ended in the capitulation at Chioggia of what remained of Doria's forty-eight galleys and fourteen
thousand men.

These great deeds are far away and hazy. The brief sentences of mediæval annalists bring them
less near to us than the chroniques scandaleuses of good-for-nothing scoundrels, whose vulgar
adventures might be revived at the present hour with scarce a change of setting. Such is the
force of intimité in literature. And yet Baffo and Casanova are as much of the past as Doria
and Pisani. It is only perhaps that the survival of decadence in all we see around us, forms
a fitting frame-work for our recollections of their vividly described corruption.

Not far from the landing-place a balustraded bridge of ample breadth and large bravura manner
spans the main canal. Like everything at Chioggia, it is dirty and has fallen from its first
estate. Yet neither time nor injury can obliterate style or wholly degrade marble. Hard by
the bridge there are two rival inns. At one of these we ordered a sea-dinner--crabs, cuttlefishes,
soles, and turbots--which we ate at a table in the open air. Nothing divided us from the street
except a row of Japanese privet-bushes in hooped tubs. Our banquet soon assumed a somewhat
unpleasant similitude to that of Dives; for the Chioggoti, in all stages of decrepitude and
squalor, crowded round to beg for scraps--indescribable old women, enveloped in their own petticoats
thrown over their heads; girls hooded with sombre black mantles; old men wrinkled beyond recognition
by their nearest relatives; jabbering, half-naked boys; slow, slouching fishermen with clay
pipes in their mouths and philosophical acceptance on their sober foreheads.

That afternoon the gondola and sandolo were lashed together side by side. Two sails were raised,
and in this lazy fashion we stole homewards, faster or slower according as the breeze freshened
or slackened, landing now and then on islands, sauntering along the sea-walls which bulwark
Venice from the Adriatic, and singing--those at least of us who had the power to sing. Four
of our Venetians had trained voices and memories of inexhaustible music. Over the level water,
with the ripple plashing at our keel, their songs went abroad, and mingled with the failing
day. The barcaroles and serenades peculiar to Venice were, of course, in harmony with the occasion.
But some transcripts from classical operas were even more attractive, through the dignity with
which these men invested them. By the peculiarity of their treatment the recitativo of the
stage assumed a solemn movement, marked in rhythm, which removed it from the commonplace into
antiquity, and made me understand how cultivated music may pass back by natural, unconscious
transition into the realm of popular melody.

The sun sank, not splendidly, but quietly in banks of clouds above the Alps. Stars came out,
uncertainly at first, and then in strength, reflected on the sea. The men of the Dogana watch-boat
challenged us and let us pass. Madonna's lamp was twinkling from her shrine upon the harbour-pile.
The city grew before us. Stealing into Venice in that calm--stealing silently and shadowlike,
with scarce a ruffle of the water, the masses of the town emerging out of darkness into twilight,
till San Giorgio's gun boomed with a flash athwart our stern, and the gas-lamps of the Piazzetta
swam into sight; all this was like a long enchanted chapter of romance. And now the music of
our men had sunk to one faint whistling from Eustace of tunes in harmony with whispers at the prow.

Then came the steps of the Palazzo Venier and the deep-scented darkness of the garden. As we
passed through to supper, I plucked a spray of yellow Banksia rose, and put it in my button-hole.
The dew was on its burnished leaves, and evening had drawn forth its perfume.

IV.--MORNING RAMBLES.

A story is told of Poussin, the French painter, that when he was asked why he would not stay
in Venice, he replied, "If I stay here, I shall become a colourist!" A somewhat similar tale
is reported of a fashionable English decorator. While on a visit to friends in Venice, he avoided
every building which contains a Tintoretto, averring that the sight of Tintoretto's pictures
would injure his carefully trained taste. It is probable that neither anecdote is strictly
true. Yet there is a certain epigrammatic point in both; and I have often speculated whether
even Venice could have so warped the genius of Poussin as to shed one ray of splendour on his
canvases, or whether even Tintoretto could have so sublimed the prophet of Queen Anne as to
make him add dramatic passion to a London drawing-room. Anyhow, it is exceedingly difficult
to escape from colour in the air of Venice, or from Tintoretto in her buildings. Long, delightful
mornings may be spent in the enjoyment of the one and the pursuit of the other by folk who
have no classical or pseudo-mediæval theories to oppress them.

Tintoretto's house, though changed, can still be visited. It formed part of the Fondamenta
dei Mori, so called from having been the quarter assigned to Moorish traders in Venice. A spirited
carving of a turbaned Moor leading a camel charged with merchandise, remains above the water-line
of a neighbouring building; and all about the crumbling walls sprout flowering weeds--samphire
and snapdragon and the spiked campanula, which shoots a spire of sea-blue stars from chinks
of Istrian stone.

The house stands opposite the Church of Santa Maria dell'Orto, where Tintoretto was buried,
and where four of his chief masterpieces are to be seen. This church, swept and garnished,
is a triumph of modern Italian restoration. They have contrived to make it as commonplace as
human ingenuity could manage. Yet no malice of ignorant industry can obscure the treasures
it contains--the pictures of Cima, Gian Bellini, Palma, and the four Tintorettos, which form
its crowning glory. Here the master may be studied in four of his chief moods: as the painter
of tragic passion and movement, in the huge Last Judgment; as the painter of impossibilities,
in the Vision of Moses upon Sinai; as the painter of purity and tranquil pathos, in the Miracle
of S. Agnes; as the painter of Biblical history brought home to daily life, in the Presentation
of the Virgin. Without leaving the Madonna dell'Orto, a student can explore his genius in all
its depth and breadth; comprehend the enthusiasm he excites in those who seek, as the essentials
of art, imaginative boldness and sincerity; understand what is meant by adversaries who maintain
that, after all, Tintoretto was but an inspired Gustave Doré. Between that quiet canvas of
the Presentation, so modest in its cool greys and subdued gold, and the tumult of flying, ruining,
ascending figures in the Judgment, what an interval there is! How strangely the white lamb-like
maiden, kneeling beside her lamb in the picture of S. Agnes, contrasts with the dusky gorgeousness
of the Hebrew women despoiling themselves of jewels for the golden calf! Comparing these several
manifestations of creative power, we feel ourselves in the grasp of a painter who was essentially
a poet, one for whom his art was the medium for expressing before all things thought and passion.
Each picture is executed in the manner suited to its tone of feeling, the key of its conception.

Elsewhere than in the Madonna dell'Orto there are more distinguished single examples of Tintoretto's
realising faculty. The Last Supper in San Giorgio, for instance, and the Adoration of the Shepherds
in the Scuola di San Rocco illustrate his unique power of presenting sacred history in a novel,
romantic frame-work of familiar things. The commonplace circumstances of ordinary life have
been employed to portray in the one case a lyric of mysterious splendour; in the other, an
idyll of infinite sweetness. Divinity shines through the rafters of that upper chamber, where
round a low large table the Apostles are assembled in a group translated from the social customs
of the painter's days. Divinity is shed upon the straw-spread manger, where Christ lies sleeping
in the loft, with shepherds crowding through the room beneath.

A studied contrast between the simplicity and repose of the central figure and the tumult of
passions in the multitude around, may be observed in the Miracle of S. Agnes. It is this which
gives dramatic vigour to the composition. But the same effect is carried to its highest fulfilment,
with even a loftier beauty, in the episode of Christ before the judgment-seat of Pilate, at
San Rocco. Of all Tintoretto's religious pictures, that is the most profoundly felt, the most
majestic. No other artist succeeded as he has here succeeded in presenting to us God incarnate.
For this Christ is not merely the just man, innocent, silent before his accusers. The stationary,
white-draped figure, raised high above the agitated crowd, with tranquil forehead slightly
bent, facing his perplexed and fussy judge, is more than man. We cannot say perhaps precisely
why he is divine. But Tintoretto has made us feel that he is. In other words, his treatment
of the high theme chosen by him has been adequate.

