We lived right in old Master Wright's yard. His house sat way up on a high hill. It was jest
a little old log hut we lived in a little old shack around the yard. They was a lot of little
shacks in the yard, I can't tell jest how many, but it was quite a number of 'em. We slept
in old-fashion beds that we called "corded beds", 'cause they had ropes crossed to hold the
mattresses for slats. Some of 'em had beds nailed to the wall.

Master Travis Wright had one son named Sam Wright, and after old Master Travis Wright died,
young Master Sam Wright come to be my mother's master. He jest died a few years ago.

My mother say dey had a nigger driver and he'd whip 'em all but his daughter. I never seen
no slaves whipped, but my mother say dey had to whip her Uncle Charley Mills once for telling
a story. She say he bored a hole in de wall of de store 'til he bored de hole in old Master's
whiskey barrel, and he caught two jugs of whiskey and buried it in de banks of de river. When
old Master found out de whiskey was gone, he tried to make Uncle Charley 'fess up, and Uncle
Charley wouldn't so he brung him in and hung him and barely let his toes touch. After Uncle
Charley thought he was going to kill him, he told where de whiskey was.

We didn't go to church before freedom, land no! 'cause the closest church was so far--it was
30 miles off. But I'm a member of the Baptist Church and I've been a member for some 40-odd
years. I was past 40 when I heerd of a Methodist Church. My favorite song is "Companion." I
didn't get to go to school 'til after slavery.

I 'member more after de War. I 'member my mother said dey had patrollers, and if de slaves
would get passes from de Master to go to de dances and didn't git back before ten o'clock dey'd
beat 'em half to death.

I used to hear 'em talking 'bout Ku Klux Klan coming to the well to get water. They'd draw
up a bucket of water and pour the water in they false stomachs. They false stomachs was tied
on 'em with a big leather buckle. They'd jest pour de water in there to scare 'em and say,
"This is the first drink of water I've had since I left Hell." They'd say all sech things to
scare the cullud folks.

I heerd my mother say they sold slaves on what they called an auction block. Jest like if a
slave had any portly fine looking children they'd sell them chillun jest like selling cattle.
I didn't see this, jest heerd it.

After freedom, when I was old enough then to work in the field, we lived on Mr. Martin's plantation.
We worked awful hard in the fields. Lawd yes'm! I've heard 'bout shucking up de corn, but give
me dem cotton pickings. Fry'd pick out all de crop of cotton in one day. The women would cook
and de men'd pick the cotton, I mean on dem big cotton pickings. Some would work for they meals.
Then after dey'd gather all de crops, dey'd give big dances, drink whiskey, and jest cut up
sumpin terrible. We didn't know anything 'bout holidays.

I've heard my husband talk 'bout "Raw head an' bloody bones." Said whenever dey mothers wanted
to scare 'em to make 'em be good dey'd tell 'em dat a man was outside de door and asked her
if she'd hold his head while he fixed his back bone. I don't believe in voodooing, and I don't
believe in hants. I used to believe in both of 'em when I was young.

I married Jake Bridges. We had a ordinary wedding. The preacher married us and we had a license.
We have two sons grown living here. My husband told me that in slavery if your Master told
you to live with your brother, you had to live with him. My father's mother and dad was first
cousins.

I can 'member my husband telling me he was hauling lumber from Jefferson where the saw mill
was and it was cold that night, and when they got halfway back it snowed, and he stopped with
an old cullud family, and he said way in the night, a knock come at de door--woke 'em up, and
it was an old cullud man, and he said dis old man commence inquiring, trying to find out who
dey people was and dey told him best dey could remember, and bless de Lawd, 'fore dey finished
talking de found out dis old cullud man and de other cullud woman an' man dat was married was
all brothers and sisters, and he told his brother it was a shame he had married his sister
and dey had nine chillun. My husband sho' told me dis.

I've heerd 'em say dey old master raised chillun by those cullud women. Why, there was one
white man in Texas had a cullud woman, but didn't have no chillun by her, and he had this cullud
woman and her old mistress there on the same place. So, when old Mistress died he wouldn't
let this cullud woman leave, and he gave her a swell home right there on the place, and she
is still there I guess. They say she say sometime, she didn't want no Negro man smutting her
sheets up.

I think Abraham Lincoln was a good man, and I have read a whole lots 'bout him, but I don't
know much 'bout Jeff Davis. I think Booker T. Washington is a fine man, but I aint heerd so
much about him. West Tulsa, Okla.

Most of the folks have themselves a regular birthday but this old colored man just pick out
any of the days during the year--one day just about as good as another.

I been around a long time but I don't know when I got here. That's the truth. Nearest I figures
it the year was 1850--the month don't make no difference nohow.

But I know the borning was down in Taloga County, Alabama, near the county seat town. Miss
Abby was with my Mammy that day. She was the wife of Master John Brown. She was with all the
slave women every time a baby was born, or when a plague of misery hit the folks she knew what
to do and what kind of medicine to chase off the aches and pains. God bless her! She sure loved
us Negroes.

Most of the time there was more'n three hundred slaves on the plantation. The oldest ones come
right from Africa. My Grandmother was one of them. A savage in Africa--a slave in America.
Mammy told it to me. Over there all the natives dressed naked and lived on fruits and nuts.
Never see many white mens.

One day a big ship stopped off the shore and the natives hid in the brush along the beach.
Grandmother was there. The ship men sent a little boat to the shore and scattered bright things
and trinkets on the beach. The natives were curious. Grandmother said everybody made a rush
for them things soon as the boat left. The trinkets was fewer than the peoples. Next day the
white folks scatter some more. There was another scramble. The natives was feeling less scared,
and the next day some of them walked up the gangplank to get things off the plank and off the deck.

The deck was covered with things like they'd found on the beach. Two-three hundred natives
on the ship when they feel it move. They rush to the side but the plank was gone. Just dropped
in the water when the ship moved away.

Folks on the beach started to crying and shouting. The ones on the boat was wild with fear.
Grandmother was one of them who got fooled, and she say the last thing seen of that place was
the natives running up and down the beach waving their arms and shouting like they was mad.
The boat men come up from below where they had been hiding and drive the slaves down in the
bottom and keep them quiet with the whips and clubs.

The slaves was landed at Charleston. The town folks was mighty mad 'cause the blacks was driven
through the streets without any clothes, and drove off the boat men after the slaves was sold
on the market. Most of that load was sold to the Brown plantation in Alabama. Grandmother was
one of the bunch.

The Browns taught them to work. Made clothes for them. For a long time the natives didn't like
the clothes and try to shake them off. There was three Brown boys--John, Charley and Henry.
Nephews of old Lady Hyatt who was the real owner of the plantation, but the boys run the place.
The old lady she lived in the town. Come out in the spring and fall to see how is the plantation
doing.

She was a fine woman. The Brown boys and their wives was just as good. Wouldn't let nobody
mistreat the slaves. Whippings was few and nobody get the whip 'less he need it bad. They teach
the young ones how to read and write; say it was good for the Negroes to know about such things.

Sunday was a great day around the plantation. The fields was forgotten, the light chores was
hurried through and everybody got ready for the church meeting.

It was out of the doors, in the yard fronting the big log where the Browns all lived. Master
John's wife would start the meeting with a prayer and then would come the singing. The old
timey songs.

The white folks on the next plantation would lick their slaves for trying to do like we did.
No praying there, and no singing.

The Master gave out the week's supply on Saturday. Plenty of hams, lean bacon, flour, corn
meal, coffee and more'n enough for the week. Nobody go hungry on that place! During the growing
season all the slaves have a garden spot all their own. Three thousand acres on that place--plenty
of room for gardens and field crops.

Even during the war foods was plentiful. One time the Yankee soldiers visit the place. The
white folks gone and I talks with them. Asks me lots of questions--got any meats--got any potatoes--got
any this--some of that--but I just shake my head and they don't look around.

The old cook fixes them up though. She fry all the eggs on the place, skillet the ham and pan
the biscuits! Them soldiers fill up and leave the house friendly as anybody I ever see!

The Browns wasn't bothered with the Ku Klux Klan either. The Negroes minded their own business
just like before they was free.

I stayed on the plantation 'til the last Brown die. Then I come to Oklahoma and works on the
railroad 'til I was too old to hustle the grips and packages. Now I just sits thinking how
much better off would I be on the old plantation.

Homesick! Just homesick for that Alabama farm like it was in them good old times!

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves

SALLIE CARDER Age 83 yrs. Burwin, Okla.

I was born in Jackson, Tennessee, and I'm going on 83 years. My mother was Harriett Neel and
father Jeff Bills, both of them named after their masters. I has one brother, J. B. Bills,
but all de rest of my brothers and sisters is dead.

No sir, we never had no money while I was a slave. We jest didn't have nothing a-tall! We ate
greens, corn bread, and ash cake. De only time I ever got a biscuit would be when a misdemeanor
was did, and my Mistress would give a buttered biscuit to de one who could tell her who done it.

In hot weather and cold weather dere was no difference as to what we wore. We wore dresses
my mother wove for us and no shoes a-tall. I never wore any shoes till I was grown and den
dey was old brogans wid only two holes to lace, one on each side. During my wedding I wore
a blue calico dress, a man's shirt tail as a head rag, and a pair of brogan shoes.

My Master lived in a three-story frame house painted white. My Mistress was very mean. Sometimes
she would make de overseer whip negroes for looking too hard at her when she was talking to
dem. Dey had four children, three girls and one boy.

I was a servant to my Master, and as he had de palsy I had to care for him, feed him and push
him around. I don't know how many slaves, but he had a good deal of 'em.

About four o' clock mornings de overseer or negro carriage driver who stayed at the Big House
would ring de bell to git up and git to work. De slaves would pick a heap of cotton and work
till late on moonshining nights.

Dere was a white post in front of my door with ropes to tie the slaves to whip dem. Dey used
a plain strap, another one with holes in it, and one dey call de cat wid nine tails which was
a number of straps plated and de ends unplated. Dey would whip de slaves wid a wide strap wid
holes in it and de holes would make blisters. Den dey would take de cat wid nine tails and
burst de blisters and den rub de sores wid turpentine and red pepper.

I never saw any slaves auctioned off but I seen dem pass our house chained together on de way
to be sold, including both men and women wid babies all chained to each other. Dere was no
churches for slaves, but at nights dey would slip off and git in ditches and sing and pray,
and when dey would sometimes be caught at it dey would be whipped. Some of de slaves would
turn down big pots and put dere heads in dem and pray. My Mistress would tell me to be a good
obedient slave and I would go to heaven. When slaves would attempt to run off dey would catch
dem and chain dem and fetch 'em back and whip dem before dey was turned loose again.

De patrollers would go about in de quarters at nights to see if any of de slaves was out or
slipped off. As we sleep on de dirt floors on pallets, de patrollers would walk all over and
on us and if we even grunt dey would whip us. De only trouble between de whites and blacks
on our plantation was when de overseer tied my mother to whip her and my father untied her
and de overseer shot and killed him.

Negroes never was allowed to git sick, and when dey would look somewhat sick, de overseer would
give dem some blue-mass pills and oil of some sort and make dem continue to work.

During de War de Yankees would pass through and kill up de chickens, and hogs, and cattle,
and eat up all dey could find. De day of freedom de overseer went into de field and told de
slaves dat dey was free, and de slaves replied, "free how?" and he told dem: "free to work
and live for demselves." And dey said dey didn't know what to do, and so some of dem stayed
on. I married Josh Forch. I am mother of four children and 35 grand children.

I like Abraham Lincoln. I think he was a good man and president. I didn't know much who Jeff
Davis was. What I heard 'bout Booker T. Washington, he was a good man.

Now dat slavery is over, I don't want to be in nary 'nother slavery, and if ever nary 'nothern
come up I wouldn't stay here.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves

BETTY FOREMAN CHESSIER Age 94 years Oklahoma City, Okla.

I was born July 11, 1843 in Raleigh, N. C. My mother was named Melinda Manley, the slave of
Governor Manley of North Carolina, and my father was named Arnold Foreman, slave of Bob and
John Foreman, two young masters. They come over from Arkansas to visit my master and my pappy
and mammy met and got married, 'though my pappy only seen my mammy in the summer when his masters
come to visit our master and dey took him right back. I had three sisters and two brothers
and none of dem was my whole brothers and sisters. I stayed in the Big House all the time,
but my sisters and brothers was gived to the master's sons and daughters whey dey got married
and dey was told to send back for some more when dem died. I didn't never stay with my mammy
doing of slavery. I stayed in the Big House. I slept under the dining room table with three
other darkies. The flo' was well carpeted. Don't remembah my grandmammy and grandpappy, but
my master was they master.

I waited on the table, kept flies off'n my mistress and went for the mail. Never made no money,
but dey did give the slaves money at Christmas time. I never had over two dresses. One was
calico and one gingham. I had such underclothes as dey wore then.

Master Manley and Mistress had six sons an' six darters. Dey raised dem all till dey was grown
too. Dey lived in a great big house 'cross from the mansion, right in town before Master was
'lected Governor, den dey all moved in dat mansion.

Plantation folks had barbecues and "lay crop feasts" and invited the city darkies out. When
I first come here I couldn't understand the folks here, 'cause dey didn't quit work on Easter
Monday. That is some day in North Carolina even today. I doesn't remember any play songs, 'cause
I was almost in prison. I couldn't play with any of the darkies and I doesn't remember playing
in my life when I was a little girl and when I got grown I didn't want to. I wasn't hongry,
I wasn't naked and I got only five licks from the white folks in my life. Dey was for being
such a big forgitful girl. I saw 'em sell niggers once. The only pusson I ever seen whipped
at dat whipping post was a white man.

I never got no learning; dey kept us from dat, but you know some of dem darkies learnt anyhow.
We had church in the heart of town or in the basement of some old building. I went to the 'piscopal
church most all the time, till I got to be a Baptist.

The slaves run away to the North 'cause dey wanted to be free. Some of my family run away sometime
and dey didn't catch 'em neither. The patrollers sho' watched the streets. But when dey caught
any of master's niggers without passes, dey jest locked him up in the guard house and master
come down in the mawnin' and git 'em out, but dem patrollers better not whip one.

I know when the War commenced and ended. Master Manley sent me from the Big House to the office
about a mile away. Jest as I got to the office door, three men rid up in blue uniforms and
said, "Dinah, do you have any milk in there?" I was sent down to the office for some beans
for to cook dinner, but dem men most nigh scared me to death. They never did go in dat office,
but jest rid off on horseback about a quarter a mile and seem lak right now, Yankees fell out
of the very sky, 'cause hundeds and hundeds was everywhere you could look to save your life.
Old Mistress sent one of her grandchillun to tell me to come on, and one of the Yankees told
dat child, "You tell your grandmother she ain't coming now and never will come back there as
a slave." Master was setting on the mansion porch. Dem Yankees come up on de porch, go down
in cellar and didn't tech one blessed thing. Old Mistress took heart trouble, 'cause dem Yankees
whipped white folks going and coming.

I laid in my bed a many night scared to death of Klu Klux Klan. Dey would come to your house
and ask for a drink and no more want a drink than nothing.

After the War, I went to mammy and my step-pappy. She done married again, so I left and went
to Warrington and Halifax, North Carolina, jest for a little while nursing some white chillun.
I stayed in Raleigh, where I was born till 7 years ago, when I come to Oklahoma to live with
my only living child. I am the mother of 4 chillun and 11 grandchillun.

When I got married I jumped a broomstick. To git unmarried, all you had to do was to jump backwards
over the same broomstick.

Lincoln and Booker T. Washington was two of the finest men ever lived. Don't think nothing
of Jeff Davis, 'cause he was a traitor. Freedom for us was the best thing ever happened. Prayer
is best thing in the world. Everybody ought to pray, 'cause prayer got us out of slavery.

Oklahoma Writer's Project Ex-Slaves

POLLY COLBERT Age 83 yrs. Colbert, Oklahoma

I am now living on de forty-acre farm dat de Government give me and it is just about three
miles from my old home on Master Holmes Colbert's plantation where I lived when I was a slave.

Lawsy me, times sure has changed since slavery times! Maybe I notice it more since I been living
here all de time, but dere's farms 'round here dat I've seen grown timber cleared off of twice
during my lifetime. Dis land was first cleared up and worked by niggers when dey was slaves.
After de War nobody worked it and it just naturally growed up again wid all sorts of trees.
Later, white folks cleared it up again and took grown trees off'n it and now dey are still
cultivating it but it is most wore out now. Some of it won't even sprout peas. Dis same land
used to grow corn without hardly any work but it sure won't do it now.

I reckon it was on account of de rich land dat us niggers dat was owned by Indians didn't have
to work so hard as dey did in de old states, but I think dat Indian masters was just naturally
kinder any way, leastways mine was.

My mother, Liza, was owned by de Colbert family and my father, Tony, was owned by de Love family.
When Master Holmes and Miss Betty Love was married dey fathers give my father and mother to
dem for a wedding gift. I was born at Tishomingo and we moved to de farm on Red River soon
after dat and I been here ever since. I had a sister and a brother, but I ain't seen dem since den.

My mother died when I was real small, and about a year after dat my father died. Master Holmes
told us children not to cry, dat he and Miss Betsy would take good care of us. Dey did, too.
Dey took us in de house wid dem and look after us jest as good as dey could colored children.
We slept in a little room close to them and she allus seen dat we was covered up good before
she went to bed. I guess she got a sight of satisfaction from taking care of us 'cause she
didn't have no babies to care for.

Master Holmes and Miss Betsy was real young folks but dey was purty well fixed. He owned about
100 acres of land dat was cleared and ready for de plow and a lot dat was not in cultivation.
He had de woods full of hogs and cows and he owned seven or eight grown slaves and several
children. I remember Uncle Shed, Uncle Lige, Aunt Chaney, Aunt Lizzie, and Aunt Susy just as
well as if it was yesterday. Master Holmes and Miss Betsy was both half-breed Choctaw Indians.
Dey had both been away to school somewhere in de states and was well educated. Dey had two
children but dey died when dey was little. Another little girl was born to dem after de War
and she lived to be a grown woman.

Dey sure was fine young folks and provided well for us. He allus had a smokehouse full of meat,
lard, sausage, dried beans, peas, corn, potatoes, turnips and collards banked up for winter.
He had plenty of milk and butter for all of us, too.

Master Holmes allus say, "A hungry man caint work." And he allus saw to it that we had lots to eat.

We cooked all sorts of Indian dishes: Tom-fuller, pashofa, hickory-nut grot, Tom-budha, ash-cakes,
and pound cakes besides vegetables and meat dishes. Corn or corn meal was used in all de Indian
dishes. We made hominy out'n de whole grains. Tom-fuller was made from beaten corn and tasted
sort of like hominy.

We would take corn and beat it like in a wooden mortar wid a wooden pestle. We would husk it
by fanning it and we would den put it on to cook in a big pot. While it was cooking we'd pick
out a lot of hickory-nuts, tie 'em up in a cloth and beat 'em a little and drop 'em in and
cook for a long time. We called dis dish hickory-nut grot. When we made pashofa we beat de
corn and cook for a little while and den we add fresh pork and cook until de meat was done.
Tom-budha was green corn and fresh meat cooked together and seasoned wid tongue or pepper-grass.

We cooked on de fire place wid de pots hanging over de fire on racks and den we baked bread
and cakes in a oven-skillet. We didn't use soda and baking powder. We'd put salt in de meal
and scald it wid boiling water and make it into pones and bake it. We'd roll de ash cakes in
wet cabbage leaves and put 'em in de hot ashes and bake 'em. We cooked potatoes, and roasting
ears dat way also. We sweetened our cakes wid molasses, and dey was plenty sweet too.

Dey was lots of possums and coons and squirrels and we nearly always had some one of these
to eat. We'd parboil de possum or coon and put it in a pan and bake him wid potatoes 'round
him. We used de broth to baste him and for gravy. Hit sure was fine eating dem days.

I never had much work to do. I helped 'round de house when I wanted to and I run errands for
Miss Betsy. I liked to do things for her. When I got a little bigger my brother and I toted
cool water to de field for de hands.

Didn't none of Master Holmes' niggers work when dey was sick. He allus saw dat dey had medicine
and a doctor iffen dey needed one. 'Bout de only sickness we had was chills and fever. In de
old days we made lots of our own medicine and I still does it yet. We used polecat grease for
croup and rheumatism. Dog-fennel, butterfly-root, and life-everlasting boiled and mixed and
made into a syrup will cure pneumonia and pleurisy. Pursley-weed, called squirrel physic, boiled
into a syrup will cure chills and fever. Snake-root steeped for a long time and mixed with
whiskey will cure chills and fever also.

Our clothes was all made of homespun. De women done all de spinning and de weaving but Miss
Betsy cut out all de clothes and helped wid de sewing. She learned to sew when she was away
to school and she learnt all her women to sew. She done all the sewing for de children. Master
Holmes bought our shoes and we all had 'em to wear in de winter. We all went barefoot in de summer.

He kept mighty good teams and he had two fine saddle horses. He and Miss Betsy rode 'em all
de time. She would ride wid him all over de farm and dey would go hunting a lot, too. She could
shoot a gun as good as any man.

Master Holmes sure did love his wife and children and he was so proud of her. It nearly killed
'em both to give up de little boy and girl. I never did hear of him taking a drink and he was
kind to everybody, both black and white, and everybody liked him. Dey had lots of company and
dey never turned anybody away. We lived about four miles from de ferry on Red River on de Texas
Road and lots of travelers stopped at our house.

We was 'lowed to visit de colored folks on de Eastman and Carter plantations dat joined our
farm. Eastman and Carter was both white men dat married Indian wives. Dey was good to dey slaves,
too, and let 'em visit us.

Old Uncle Kellup (Caleb) Colbert, Uncle Billy Hogan, Rev. John Carr, Rev. Baker, Rev. Hogue,
and old Father Murrow preached for de white folks all de time and us colored folks went to
church wid dem. Dey had church under brush arbors and we set off to ourselves but we could
take part in de singing and sometimes a colored person would get happy and pray and shout but
nobody didn't think nothing 'bout dat.

De Patrollers was de law, kind of like de policeman now. Dey sure never did whip one of Master
Holmes' niggers for he didn't allow it. He didn't whip 'em hisself and he sure didn't allow
anybody else to either. I was afraid of de Ku Kluxers too, and I 'spects dat Master Holmes
was one of de leaders iffen de truth was known. Dey sure was scary looking.

I was scared of de Yankee soldiers. Dey come by and killed some of our cattle for beef and
took our meat and lard out'n de smokehouse and dey took some corn, too. Us niggers was awful
mad. We didn't know anything 'bout dem fighting to free us. We didn't specially want to be
free dat I knows of.

Right after de War I went over to Bloomfield Academy to take care of a little girl, but I went
back to Master Holmes and Miss Betsy at de end of two years to take care of de little girl
dat was born to dem and I stayed with her until I was about fifteen. Master Holmes went to
Washington as a delegate, for something for de Indians, and he took sick and died and dey buried
him dere. Poor Miss Betsy nearly grieved herself to death. She stayed on at de farm till her
little girl was grown and married. Her nigger men stayed on with her and rented land from her
and dey sure raised a sight of truck. Didn't none of her old slaves ever move very far from
her and most of them worked for her till dey was too old to work.

I left Miss Betsy purty soon after Master Holmes died and went back to de Academy and stayed
three years. I married a man dat belonged to Master Holmes' cousin. His name was Colbert, too.
I had a big wedding. Miss Betsy and a lot of white folks come and stayed for dinner. We danced
all evening and after supper we started again and danced all night and de next day and de next
night. We'd eat awhile and den we'd dance awhile.

My husband and I had nine children and now I've got seven grandchildren. My husband has been
dead a long time.

My sister, Chaney, lives here close to me but her mind has got feeble and she can't recollect
as much as I can. I live with my son and he is mighty good to me. I know I ain't long for dis
world but I don't mind for I has lived a long time and I'll have a lot of friends in de other
world and I won't be lonesome.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves [Date stamp: NOV 5 1937]

GEORGE CONRAD, JR., Age 77 yrs. Oklahoma City, Okla.

I was born February 23, 1860 at Connersville, Harrison County, Kentucky. I was born and lived
just 13 miles from Parish. My mother's name is Rachel Conrad, born at Bourbon County, Kentucky.
My father, George Conrad, was born at Bourbon County Kentucky. My grandmother's name is Sallie
Amos, and grandfather's name is Peter Amos. My grandfather, his old Master freed him and he
bought my grandmother, Aunt Liza and Uncle Cy. He made the money by freighting groceries from
Ohio to Maysville, Kentucky.

Our Master was named Master Joe Conrad. We sometimes called him "Mos" Joe Conrad. Master Joe
Conrad stayed in a big log house with weather boarding on the outside.

I was born in a log cabin. We slept in wooden beds with rope cords for slats, and the beds
had curtains around them. You see my mother was the cook for the Master, and she cooked everything--chicken,
roasting ears. She cooked mostly everything we have now. They didn't have stoves; they cooked
in big ovens. The skillets had three legs. I can remember the first stove that we had. I guess
I was about six years old.

My old Master had 900 acres of land. My father was a stiller. He made three barrels of whisky
a day. Before the War whisky sold for 12-1/2¢ and 13¢ a gallon. After the War it went up to
$3 and $4 per gallon. When War broke out he had 300 barrels hid under old Master's barn.

There was 14 colored men working for old Master Joe and 7 women. I think it was on the 13th
of May, all 14 of these colored men, and my father, went to the Army. When old Master Joe come
to wake 'em up the next morning--I remember he called real loud, Miles, Esau, George, Frank,
Arch, on down the line, and my mother told him they'd all gone to the army. Old Master went
to Cynthia, Kentucky, where they had gone to enlist and begged the officer in charge to let
him see all of his boys, but the officer said "No." Some way or 'nother he got a chance to
see Arch, and Arch came back with him to help raise the crops.

My mother cooked and took care of the house. Aunt Sarah took care of the children. I had two
little baby brothers, Charlie and John. The old Mistress would let my mother put them in her
cradle and Aunt Sarah got jealous, and killed both of the babies. When they cut one of the
babies open they took out two frogs. Some say she conjured the babies. Them niggers could conjure
each other but they couldn't do nothing to the whitefolks, but I don't believe in it. There's
an old woman living back there now (pointing around the corner of the house where he was sitting)
they said her husband put a spell on her. They call 'em two-headed Negroes.

Old Master never whipped any of his slaves, except two of my uncles--Pete Conrad and Richard
Sherman, now living at Falsmouth, Kentucky.

We raised corn, wheat, oats, rye and barley, in the spring. In January, February and March
we'd go up to the Sugar Camp where he had a grove of maple trees. We'd make maple syrup and
put up sugar in cakes. Sugar sold for $2.5O and $3 a cake. He had a regular sugar house. My
old Master was rich I tell you.

Whenever a member of the white family die all the slaves would turn out, and whenever a slave
would die, whitefolks and all the slaves would go. My Master had a big vault. My Mistress was
buried in an iron coffin that they called a potanic coffin. I went back to see her after I
was 21 years old and she look jest like she did when they buried her. All of the family was
buried in them vaults, and I expect if you'd go there today they'd look the same. The slaves
was buried in good handmade coffins.

I heard a lot of talk 'bout the patrollers. In them days if you went away from home and didn't
have a pass they'd whip you. Sometimes they'd whip you with a long black cow whip, and then
sometime they'd roast elm switches in the fire. This was called "cat-o-nine-tails", and they'd
whip you with dat. We never had no jails; only punishment was just to whip you.

Now, the way the slaves travel. If a slave had been good sometimes old Master would let him
ride his hoss; then, sometime they'd steal a hoss out and ride 'em and slip him back before
old Master ever found it out. There was a man in them days by the name of John Brown. We called
him an underground railroad man, 'cause he'd steal the slaves and carry 'em across the river
in a boat. When you got on the other side you was free, 'cause you was in a free State, Ohio.

We used to sing, and I guess young folks today does too:

    "John Brown's Body Lies A 'moulding In the Clay."

and

    "They Hung John Brown On a Sour Apple Tree."

Our slaves all got very good attention when they got sick. They'd send and get a doctor for
'em. You see old Mistress Mary bought my mother, father and two children throwed in for $1,100
and she told Master Joe to always keep her slaves, not to sell 'em and always take good care
of 'em.

When my father went to the army old Master told us he was gone to fight for us niggers freedom.
My daddy was the only one that come back out of the 13 men that enlisted, and when my daddy
come back old Master give him a buggy and hoss.

When the Yanks come, I never will forget one of 'em was named John Morgan. We carried old Master
down to the barn and hid him in the hay. I felt so sorry for old Master they took all his hams,
some of his whiskey, and all dey could find, hogs, chickens, and jest treated him something
terrible.

The whitefolks learned my father how to read and write, but I didn't learn how to read and
write 'til I enlisted in the U. S. Army in 1883.

They sent us here (Oklahoma Territory) to keep the immigrants from settling up Oklahoma. I
went to Fort Riley the 1st day of October 1883, and stayed there three weeks. Left Fort Riley
and went to Ft. Worth, Texas, and landed in Henryetta, Texas, on the 14th day of October 1883.
Then, we had 65 miles to walk to Ft. Sill. We walked there in three days. I was assigned to
my Company, Troop G. 9th Calvary, and we stayed and drilled in Ft. Sill six months, when we
was assigned to duty. We got orders to come to Ft. Reno, Okla., on the 6th day of January 1885
where we was ordered to Stillwater, Okla., to move five hundred immigrants under Capt. Couch.
We landed there on the 23rd day of January, Saturday evening, and Sunday was the 24th. We had
general inspection Monday, January 25, 1885. We fell in line of battle, sixteen companies of
soldiers, to move 500 immigrants to the Arkansas City, Kansas line.

We formed a line at 9:00 o'clock Monday morning and Captain Couch run up his white flag, and
Colonel Hatch he sent the orderly up to see what he meant by putting up the flag, so Captain
Couch sent word back, "If you don't fire on me, I'll leave tomorrow." Colonel Hatch turned
around to the Major and told him to turn his troops back to the camp, and detailed three camps
of soldiers of the 8th Cavalry to carry Captain Couch's troop of 500 immigrants to Arkansas
City, Kansas. Troop L., Troop D., and Troop B. taken them back with 43 wagons and put them
over the line of Kansas. Then we were ordered back to our supply camp at Camp Alice, 9 miles
north of Guthrie in the Cimarron horseshoe bottom. We stayed there about three months, and
Capt. Couch and his colony came back into the territory at Caldwell, Kansas June 1885.

I laid there 'til August 8, then we changed regiments with the 5th Calvary to go to Nebraska.
There was a breakout with the Indians at Ft. Reno the 1st of July 1885. The Indian Agency tried
to make the Indians wear citizens' clothes. They had to call General Sheridan from Washington,
D. C., to quiet the Indians down. Now, we had to make a line in three divisions, fifteen miles
a part, one non-commissioned officer to each squad, and these men was to go to Caldwell, Kansas
and bring him to Ft. Reno that night. He came that night, so the next morning Colonel Brisbane
and General Hatch reported to General Sheridan what the trouble was. General Sheridan called
all the Indian Chiefs together and asked them why they rebelled against the agency, and they
told them they weren't going to wear citizen's clothes. General Sheridan called his corporals
and sergeants together and told them to go behind the guard house and dig a grave for this
Indian agent in order to fool the Indian Chiefs. Then, he sent a detachment of soldiers to
order the Indian Chiefs away from the guard house and to put this Indian agent in the ambulance
that brought him to Ft. Reno and take him back to Washington, D. C., to remain there 'til he
returned. The next morning he called all the Indian Chiefs to the guard house and pointed down
to the grave and said that, "I have killed the agent and buried him there." The Indians tore
the feathers out of their hats rejoicing that they killed the agent.

On the 12th of the same July, we had general inspection with General Foresides from Washington,
then we was ordered back to our supply camp to stay there 'til we got orders of our change.
On August 8, we got orders to change to go to Nebraska, to Ft. Robinson, Ft. Nibrary, and Ft.
McKinney, and we left on the 8th of August.

This is my Oklahoma history. I gave this story to the Daily Oklahoman and Times at one time
and they are supposed to publish it but they haven't.

Now you see that tree up there in front of my house? That tree is 50 years old. It is called
the potopic tree. That was the only tree around here in 1882. This was a bald prairie. I enlisted
over there where the City Market sets now. That was our starting camp under Capt. Payne, but
he died.

I joined the A. M. E. Methodist Church in 1874. I love this song better than all the rest:

    "Am I a Soldier of the Cross?"

Abraham Lincoln was a smart man, but he would have done more if he was not killed. I don't
think his work was finished. I'll tell you the truth about Booker T. Washington. He argued
our people to stay out of town and stay in the country. He was a Democrat. He was a smart man,
but I think a man should live wherever he choose regardless. I never stopped work whenever
I'd hear he was coming to town to speak. You know they wasn't fighting for freeing the slaves;
they was fighting to keep Kansas from being a slave State; so when they had the North whipped,
I mean the South had 'em whipped, they called for the Negroes to go out and fight for his freedom.
Don't know nothing 'bout Jeff Davis. I've handled a lots of his money. It was counterfeited
after the War.

I've been married four times. I had one wife and three women. I mean the three wasn't no good.
My first wife's name: Amanda Nelson. 2nd: Pocahuntas Jackson. 3rd: Nannie Shumpard. We lived
together 9 years. She tried to beat me out of my home.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves

MARTHA CUNNINGHAM (white) Age 81 yrs. Oklahoma City, Oklahoma

My father's name was A. J. Brown, and my mother's name was Hattie Brown. I was born in the
East, in Saveer County, Tennessee. I had twelve sisters and brothers, all are dead but two.
W. S. Brown lives at 327 W. California, and Maudie Reynolds, my sister lives at Minrovie, California.

We lived in different kinds of houses just like we do now. Some was of log, some frame and
some rock. I remember when we didn't have stoves to cook on, no lamps, and not even any candles
until I was about six years old. We would take a rag and sop it in lard to make lights.

All of our furniture was home made, but it was nice. We had just plenty of every thing. It
wasn't like it is in these days where you have to pick and scrape for something to eat.

My grandfather and grandmother gave my mother and father two slaves, an old woman and man,
when they married. My grandfather owned a large plantation, and had a large number of slaves,
and my father and mother owned several farms at different places. Our mother and father treated
our slaves good. They ate what we ate, and they stayed with us a long time after the War. I
remember though all of the slave owners weren't good to their slaves. I have seen 'em take
those young fine looking negroes, put them in a pen when they got ready to whip them, strip
them and lay them face down, and beat them until white whelps arose on their bodies. Yes, some
of them was treated awful mean.

I saw mothers sold from their babies, and babies sold from their mothers. They would strip
them, put them on the auction block and sell them--bid them off just like you would cattle.
Some would sell for lots of money.

They wouldn't take the slaves to church. I don't remember when the negroes had their first
schools, but it was a long time after the War.

Why, I remember when they'd have those big corn shuckings, flax pullings, and quilting parties.
They would sow acres after acres of flax, then they would meet at some house or plantation
and pull flax until they had finished, then give a big party. There'd be the same thing at
the next plantation and so on until they'd all in that neighborhood get their crops gathered.
I remember they'd have all kinds of good eats--pies, cakes, chicken, fish, fresh pork, beef,--just
plenty of good eats.

I went over the battlefield at Knoxville, Tennessee, two or three hours after the Yankees and
the Rebels had a battle. It was about a mile from our house, and I walked over hundreds of
dead men lying on the ground. Some were fatally wounded, and we carried about six or seven
to our house. I saw the doctor pick the bullets out of their flesh.

When the Yankees came they treated the slave owners awful mean. They drew a gun on my mother,
made her walk for several miles one real cold night and take them up on the top of a mountain
and show them where a still was. They would make her cook for 'em. They took every thing we
had. I was about twelve years old at that time.

I stayed there with my mother until after my father died, then we moved to Alabama. I was about
22 years old. I married a man named Kelley. He and my brothers were railroad graders. We traveled
all over Texas.

I made the Run. Came here in '89 with my mother, husband and eight children. My husband and
brothers graded the streets for the townsite of Oklahoma City and platted it off.

When we made the Run, we just stood on the property until it was surveyed, then we'd pay $1.00,
and the lot was ours. I camped on the corner of Robinson and Pottawatomie Streets and Robinson
and Chickasaw. I owned the Northwest corner. I later sold both lots.

I am a Christian, Baptist mostly, I guess, and I believe in the Great Beyond. I don't think
you have to go to church all the time to be saved, but you have to be right with the Man up
yonder before you can be saved.

I am a Republican, and it makes my blood boil whenever I hear a negro say he is a democrat.
They should all be Republicans.

I have been married twice. I married William Cunningham here in 1922. He is dead; in fact,
both my husbands are dead, so I don't see much need of talking about them. McAlester, Oklahoma

    "Run Nigger, run,
    De Patteroll git ye!
    Run Nigger, run,
    He's almost here!"

    "Please Mr. Patteroll,
    Don't ketch me!
    Jest take dat nigger
    What's behind dat tree."

Lawsy, I done heard dat song all my life and it warn't no joke neither. De Patrol would git
ye too if he caught ye off the plantation without a pass from your Master, and he'd whup ye
too. None of us dassn't leave without a pass.

We chillun sung lots of songs and we played marbles, mumble peg, and town ball. In de winter
we would set around de fire and listen to our Mammy and Pappy tell ghost tales and witch tales.
I don't guess dey was sho' nuff so, but we all thought dey was.

My Mammy was bought in Virginia by our Master, Hugh McKeown. He owned a big plantation in Georgia.
Soon after she come to Georgia she married my pa. Old Master was good to us. We lived for a
while in the quarters behind the Big House, and my mammy was de house woman.

Somehow, in a trade, or maybe my pa was mortgaged, but anyway old Master let a man in Virginia
have him and we never see him no more 'till after the War. It nigh broke our hearts when he
had to leave and old Master sho' done everything he could to make it up to us.

There was four of us chillun. I didn't do no work 'till I was about fifteen years old. Old
Master bought a tavern and mammy worked as house woman and I went to work at the stables. I
drove the carriage and took keer of the team and carriage. I kept 'em shining too. I'd curry
the horses 'till they was slick and shiny. I'd polish the harness and the carriage. Old Master
and Mistress was quality and I wanted everybody to know it. They had three girls and three
boys and we boys played together and went swimming together. We loved each other, I tell ye.

Old Master built us a little house jest back of de tavern and mammy raised us jest like Old
Mistress did her chillun. When I didn't have to work de boys and me would go hunting. We'd
kill possum, coon, squirrels and wild hogs. Old Master killed a wild hog and he give mammy
her ten tiny pigs. She raised 'em and my, at the meat we had when they was butchered.

They had lots of company at de Big House, and it was de only tavern too, so they was lots of
cooking to do. They would go to church on Sunday and they would spread their dinners on the
ground. My, but they was feasts. We'd allus git to go as I drive the carriage and mammy looked
after the food. We had our own church too, with our own preacher.

We had a spinning house where all the old women would card and spin wool in de winter and cotton
in de summer. Dey made all our clothes, what few we wore. Us boys just wore long tailed shirts
'till we was 12 or 13 years old, sometimes older. I was 15 when I started driving the fambly
carriage and I got to put on pants then.

Our suits was made out of jeans. That cloth wore like buckskin. We'd wear 'em for a year before
they had to be patched.

We made our own brogan shoes too. We'd kill a beef and skin it and spread the skin out and
let it dry a while. We'd put the hide in lime water to get the hair off, then we'd oil it and
work it 'till it was soft. Next we'd take it to the bench and scrape or 'plesh' it with knives.
It was then put in a tight cabinet and smoked with oak wood for about 24 hours. Smoking loosened
the skin. We'd then take it out and rub it to soften it. It was blacked and oiled and it was
ready to be made into shoes. It took nearly a year to get a green hide made into shoes. Twan't
no wonder we had to go barefooted.

Sometimes I'd work in the wood shop, dressing wagon spokes. We made spokes with a plane, by
hand on a bench.

I didn't have much work to do before I was 15 except to run errands. One of my jobs was to
take corn to the mill to be ground into meal. Some one would put my sack of corn on the mule's
back and help me up and I'd ride to the mill and have it ground and they'd load me back on
and I'd go back home.

I remember once my meal fell off and I waited and waited for somebody to come by and help me.
I got tired waiting so I toted the sack to a big log and laid it acrost it. I led my mule up
to the log and after working hard for a long time I managed to get it on his back. I climbed
up and jest as we started off the mule jumped and I fell off and pulled the sack off with me.
I couldn't do nothing but wait and finally old Master came after me. He knowed something was wrong.

Old Master was good to all of his slaves but his overseers had orders to make 'em work. He
fed 'em good and took good keer of 'em and never made 'em work iffen they was sick or even
felt bad. They was two things old Master jest wouldn't 'bide and dat was for a slave to be
sassy or lazy. Sometimes if dey wouldn't work or slipped off de farm dey would whip 'em. He
didn't whip often. Colored overseers was worse to whip than white ones, but Master allus said,
"Hadn't you all rather have a nigger overseer than a white one? I don't want to white man over
my niggers." I've seen the overseer whip some but I never did get no whipping. He would strip
'em to the waist and whip 'em with a long leather strop, about as wide as two fingers and fastened
to a handle.

When de war broke out everthing was changed. My young Masters had to go. T. H. McKeown, the
oldest was a Lieutenant and was one of the first to go. It nigh broke all of our hearts. Pretty
soon he sent for me to come and keep him company. Old Master let me go and I stayed in his
quarters. He was stationed at Atlanta and Griffin, Georgia. I'd stay with him a week or two
and I'd go home for a few days and I'd take back food and fruit. I stayed with him and waited
on him 'till he got used to being in the army and they moved him out to fighting. I wanted
to go on with him but he wouldn't let me, he told me to go back and take care of Old Master
and Old Mistress. They was getting old by then. Purty soon Young Master got wounded purty bad
and they sent me home. I never went back. I got a "pass" to go home. Course, after the war
nothing was right no more. Yes, we was free but we didn't know what to do. We didn't want to
leave our old Master and our old home. We stayed on and after a while my pappy come home to
us. Dat was de best thing about de war setting us free, he could come back to us.

We all lived on at the old plantation. Old Master and old Mistress died and young Master took
charge of de farm. He couldn't a'done nothing without us niggers. He didn't know how to work.
He was good to us and divided the crops with us.

I never went to school much but my white folks learned me to read and write. I could always
have any of their books to read, and they had lots of 'em.

Times has changed a lot since that time. I don't know where the world is much better now, that
it has everthing or then when we didn't have hardly nothing, but I believe there was more religion
then. We always went to church and I've seen 'em baptize from in the early morning 'till afternoon
in the Chatahooche river. Folks don't hardly know nowadays jest what to believe they's so many
religions, but they's only one God.

I was eighteen when I married. I had eight chillun. My wife is 86, and she lives in St. Louis,
Missouri.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves [HW: (photo)] [Date stamp: AUG 16 1937]

LUCINDA DAVIS Age (about) 89 yrs. Tulsa, Okla.

    "What yo' gwine do when de meat give out?
    What yo' gwine do when de meat give out?
      Set in de corner wid my lips pooched out!
    Lawsy!

    What yo' gwine do when de meat come in?
    What yo' gwine do when de meat come in?
      Set in de corner wid a greasy chin!
    Lawsy!"

Dat's about de only little nigger song I know, less'n it be de one about:

    "Great big nigger, laying 'hind de log--
    Finger on de trigger and eye on the hawg!
    Click go de trigger and bang go de gun!
    Here come de owner and de buck nigger run!"

And I think I learn both of dem long after I been grown, 'cause I belong to a full-blood Creek
Indian and I didn't know nothing but Creek talk long after de Civil War. My mistress was part
white and knowed English talk, but she never did talk it because none of de people talked it.
I heard it sometime, but it sound like whole lot of wild shoat in de cedar brake scared at
something when I do hear it. Dat was when I was little girl in time of de War.

I don't know where I been born. Nobody never did tell me. But my mammy and pappy git me after
de War and I know den whose child I is. De men at de Creek Agency help 'em git me, I reckon, maybe.

First thing I remember is when I was a little girl, and I belong to old Tuskaya-hiniha. He
was big man in de Upper Creek, and we have a purty good size farm, jest a little bit to de
north of de wagon depot houses on de old road at Honey Springs. Dat place was about twenty-five
mile south of Fort Gibson, but I don't know nothing about whar de fort is when I was a little
girl at dat time. I know de Elk River 'bout two mile north of whar we live, 'cause I been there
many de time.

I don't know if old Master have a white name. Lots de Upper Creek didn't have no white name.
Maybe he have another Indian name, too, because Tuskaya-hiniha mean "head man warrior" in Creek,
but dat what everybody call him and dat what de family call him too.

My Mistress' name was Nancy, and she was a Lott before she marry old man Tuskaya-hiniha. Her
pappy name was Lott and he was purty near white. Maybe so all white. Dey have two chillun,
I think, but only one stayed on de place. She was name Luwina, and her husband was dead. His
name was Walker, and Luwina bring Mr. Walker's little sister, Nancy, to live at de place too.

Luwina had a little baby boy and dat de reason old Master buy me, to look after de little baby
boy. He didn't have no name cause he wasn't big enough when I was with dem, but he git a name
later on, I reckon. We all call him "Istidji." Dat mean "little man."

When I first remember, before de War, old Master had 'bout as many slave as I got fingers,
I reckon. I can think dem off on my fingers like dis, but I can't recollect de names.

Dey call all de slaves "Istilusti." Dat mean "Black man."

Old man Tuskaya-hiniha was near 'bout blind before de War, and 'bout time of de War he go plumb
blind and have to set on de long seat under de bresh shelter of de house all de time. Sometime
I lead him around de yard a little, but not very much. Dat about de time all de slave begin
to slip out and run off.

My own pappy was name Stephany. I think he take dat name 'cause when he little his mammy call
him "Istifani." Dat mean a skeleton, and he was a skinny man. He belong to de Grayson family
and I think his master name George, but I don't know. Dey big people in de Creek, and with
de white folks too. My mammy name was Serena and she belong to some of de Gouge family. Dey
was big people in de Upper Creek, and one de biggest men of the Gouge was name Hopoethleyoholo
for his Creek name. He was a big man and went to de North in de War and died up in Kansas,
I think. Dey say when he was a little boy he was called Hopoethli, which mean "good little
boy", and when he git grown he make big speeches and dey stick on de "yoholo." Dat mean "loud
whooper."

Dat de way de Creek made de name for young boys when I was a little girl. When de boy git old
enough de big men in de town give him a name, and sometime later on when he git to going round
wid de grown men dey stick on some more name. If he a good talker dey sometime stick on "yoholo",
and iffen he make lots of jokes dey call him "Hadjo." If he is a good leader dey call him "Imala"
and if he kind of mean dey sometime call him "fixigo."

My mammy and pappy belong to two masters, but dey live together on a place. Dat de way de Creek
slaves do lots of times. Dey work patches and give de masters most all dey make, but dey have
some for demselves. Dey didn't have to stay on de master's place and work like I hear de slaves
of de white people and de Cherokee and Choctaw people say dey had to do.

Maybe my pappy and mammy run off and git free, or maybeso dey buy demselves out, but anyway
dey move away some time and my mammy's master sell me to old man Tuskaya-hiniha when I was
jest a little gal. All I have to do is stay at de house and mind de baby.

Master had a good log house and a bresh shelter out in front like all de houses had. Like a
gallery, only it had de dirt for de flo' and bresh for de roof. Dey cook everything out in
de yard in big pots, and dey eat out in de yard too.

Dat was sho' good stuff to eat, and it make you fat too! Roast de green corn on de ears in
de ashes, and scrape off some and fry it! Grind de dry corn or pound it up and make ash cake.
Den bile de greens--all kinds of greens from out in de woods--and chop up de pork and de deer
meat, or de wild turkey meat; maybe all of dem, in de big pot at de same time! Fish too, and
de big turtle dat lay out on de bank!

Dey always have a pot full of sofki settin right inside de house, and anybody eat when dey
feel hungry. Anybody come on a visit, always give 'em some of de sofki. Ef dey don't take none
de old man git mad, too!

When you make de sofki you pound up de corn real fine, den pour in de water an dreen it off
to git all de little skin from off'n de grain. Den you let de grits soak and den bile it and
let it stand. Sometime you put in some pounded hickory nut meats. Dat make it real good.

I don't know whar old Master git de cloth for de clothes, less'n he buy it. Befo' I can remember
I think he had some slaves dat weave de cloth, but when I was dar he git it at de wagon depot
at Honey Springs, I think. He go dar all de time to sell his corn, and he raise lots of corn, too.

Dat place was on de big road, what we called de road to Texas, but it go all de way up to de
North, too. De traders stop at Honey Springs and old Master trade corn for what he want. He
git some purty checkedy cloth one time, and everybody git a dress or a shirt made off'n it.
I have dat dress 'till I git too big for it.

Everybody dress up fine when dey is a funeral. Dey take me along to mind de baby at two-three
funerals, but I don't know who it is dat die. De Creek sho' take on when somebody die!

Long in de night you wake up and hear a gun go off, way off yonder somewhar. Den it go again,
and den again, jest as fast as dey can ram de load in. Dat mean somebody dead. When somebody
die de men go out in de yard and let de people know dat way. Den dey jest go back in de house
and let de fire go out, and don't even tech de dead person till somebody git dar what has de
right to tech de dead.

When somebody bad sick dey build a fire in de house, even in de summer, and don't let it die
down till dat person git well or die. When dey die dey let de fire go out.

In de morning everybody dress up fine and go to de house whar de dead is and stand around in
de yard outside de house and don't go in. Pretty soon along come somebody what got a right
to tech and handle de dead and dey go in. I don't know what give dem de right, but I think
dey has to go through some kind of medicine to git de right, and I know dey has to drink de
red root and purge good before dey tech de body. When dey git de body ready dey come out and
all go to de graveyard, mostly de family graveyard, right on de place or at some of the kinfolkses.

When dey git to de grave somebody shoots a gun at de north, den de west, den de south, and
den de east. Iffen dey had four guns dey used 'em.

Den dey put de body down in de grave and put some extra clothes in with it and some food and
a cup of coffee, maybe. Den dey takes strips of elm bark and lays over de body till it all
covered up, and den throw in de dirt.

When de last dirt throwed on, everybody must clap dey hands and smile, but you sho hadn't better
step on any of de new dirt around de grave, because it bring sickness right along wid you back
to your own house. Dat what dey said, anyways.

Jest soon as de grave filled up dey built a little shelter over it wid poles like a pig pen
and kiver it over wid elm bark to keep de rain from soaking down in de new dirt.

Den everybody go back to de house and de family go in and scatter some kind of medicine 'round
de place and build a new fire. Sometime dey feed everybody befo' dey all leave for home.

Every time dey have a funeral dey always a lot of de people say, "Didn't you hear de stikini
squalling in de night?" "I hear dat stikini all de night!" De "stikini" is de screech owl,
and he suppose to tell when anybody going to die right soon. I hear lots of Creek people say
dey hear de screech owl close to de house, and sho' nuff somebody in de family die soon.

When de big battle come at our place at Honey Springs dey jest git through having de green
corn "busk." De green corn was just ripened enough to eat. It must of been along in July.

Dat busk was jest a little busk. Dey wasn't enough men around to have a good one. But I seen
lots of big ones. Ones whar dey had all de different kinds of "banga." Dey call all de dances
some kind of banga. De chicken dance is de "Tolosabanga", and de "Istifanibanga" is de one
whar dey make lak dey is skeletons and raw heads coming to git you.

De "Hadjobanga" is de crazy dance, and dat is a funny one. Dey all dance crazy and make up
funny songs to go wid de dance. Everybody think up funny songs to sing and everybody whoop
and laugh all de time.

But de worse one was de drunk dance. Dey jest dance ever whichaway, de men and de women together,
and dey wrassle and hug and carry on awful! De good people don't dance dat one. Everybody sing
about going to somebody elses house and sleeping wid dem, and shout, "We is all drunk and we
don't know what we doing and we ain't doing wrong 'cause we is all drunk" and things like dat.
Sometime de bad ones leave and go to de woods, too!

Dat kind of doing make de good people mad, and sometime dey have killings about it. When a
man catch one his women--maybeso his wife or one of his daughters--been to de woods he catch
her and beat her and cut off de rim of her ears!

People think maybeso dat ain't so, but I know it is!

I was combing somebody's hair one time--I ain't going tell who--and when I lift it up off'n
her ears I nearly drap dead! Dar de rims cut right off'n 'em! But she was a married woman,
and I think maybeso it happen when she was a young gal and got into it at one of dem drunk dances.

Dem Upper Creek took de marrying kind of light anyways. Iffen de younguns wanted to be man
and wife and de old ones didn't care dey jest went ahead and dat was about all, 'cepting some
presents maybe. But de Baptists changed dat a lot amongst de young ones.

I never forgit de day dat battle of de Civil War happen at Honey Springs! Old Master jest had
de green corn all in, and us had been having a time gitting it in, too. Jest de women was all
dat was left, 'cause de men slaves had all slipped off and left out. My uncle Abe done got
up a bunch and gone to de North wid dem to fight, but I didn't know den whar he went. He was
in dat same battle, and after de War dey called him Abe Colonel. Most all de slaves 'round
dat place done gone off a long time before dat wid dey masters when dey go wid old man Gouge
and a man named McDaniel.

We had a big tree in de yard, and a grape vine swing in it for de little baby "Istidji", and
I was swinging him real early in de morning befo' de sun up. De house set in a little patch
of woods wid de field in de back, but all out on de north side was a little open space, like
a kind of prairie. I was swinging de baby, and all at once I seen somebody riding dis way 'cross
dat prairie--jest coming a-kiting and a-laying flat out on his hoss. When he see de house he
begin to give de war whoop, "Eya-a-a-a-he-ah!" When he git close to de house he holler to git
out de way 'cause dey gwine be a big fight, and old Master start rapping wid his cane and yelling
to git some grub and blankets in de wagon right now!

We jest leave everything setting right whar it is, 'cepting putting out de fire and grabbing
all de pots and kettles. Some de nigger women run to git de mules and de wagon and some start
gitting meat and corn out of de place whar we done hid it to keep de scouters from finding
it befo' now. All de time we gitting ready to travel we hear dat boy on dat horse going on
down de big Texas road hollering. "Eya-a-a-he-he-hah!"

Den jest as we starting to leave here come something across dat little prairie sho' nuff! We
know dey is Indians de way dey is riding, and de way dey is all strung out. Dey had a flag,
and it was all red and had a big criss-cross on it dat look lak a saw horse. De man carry it
and rear back on it when de wind whip it, but it flap all 'round de horse's head and de horse
pitch and rear lak he know something going happen, sho!

'Bout dat time it turn kind of dark and begin to rain a little, and we git out to de big road
and de rain come down hard. It rain so hard for a little while dat we jest have to stop de
wagon and set dar, and den long come more soldiers dan I ever see befo'. Dey all white men,
I think, and dey have on dat brown clothes dyed wid walnut and butternut, and old Master say
dey de Confederate soldiers. Dey dragging some big guns on wheels and most de men slopping
'long in de rain on foot.

Den we hear de fighting up to de north 'long about what de river is, and de guns sound lak
hosses loping 'cross a plank bridge way off somewhar. De head men start hollering and some
de hosses start rearing and de soldiers start trotting faster up de road. We can't git out
on de road so we jest strike off through de prairie and make for a creek dat got high banks
and a place on it we call Rocky Cliff.

We git in a big cave in dat cliff, and spend de whole day and dat night in dar, and listen
to de battle going on.

Dat place was about half-a-mile from de wagon depot at Honey Springs, and a little east of
it. We can hear de guns going all day, and along in de evening here come de South side making
for a getaway. Dey come riding and running by whar we is, and it don't make no difference how
much de head men hollers at 'em dey can't make dat bunch slow up and stop.

After while here come de Yankees, right after 'em, and dey goes on into Honey Springs and pretty
soon we see de blaze whar dey is burning de wagon depot and de houses.

De next morning we goes back to de house and find de soldiers ain't hurt nothing much. De hogs
is whar dey is in de pen and de chickens come cackling 'round too. Dem soldiers going so fast
dey didn't have no time to stop and take nothing, I reckon.

Den long come lots of de Yankee soldiers going back to de North, and dey looks purty wore out,
but dey is laughing and joshing and going on.

Old Master pack up de wagon wid everything he can carry den, and we strike out down de big
road to git out de way of any more war, is dey going be any.

Dat old Texas road jest crowded wid wagons! Everybody doing de same thing we is, and de rains
done made de road so muddy and de soldiers done tromp up de mud so bad dat de wagons git stuck
all de time.

De people all moving along in bunches, and every little while one bunch of wagons come up wid
another bunch all stuck in de mud, and dey put all de hosses and mules on together and pull
em out, and den dey go on together awhile.

At night dey camp, and de women and what few niggers dey is have to git de supper in de big
pots, and de men so tired dey eat everything up from de women and de niggers, purty nigh.

After while we come to de Canadian town. Dat whar old man Gouge been and took a whole lot de
folks up north wid him, and de South soldiers got in dar ahead of us and took up all de houses
to sleep in.

Dey was some of de white soldiers camped dar, and dey was singing at de camp. I couldn't understand
what dey sing, and I asked a Creek man what dey say and he tell me dey sing, "I wish I was
in Dixie, look away--look away."

I ask him whar dat is, and he laugh and talk to de soldiers and dey all laugh, and make me mad.

De next morning we leave dat town and git to de big river. De rain make de river rise, and
I never see so much water! Jest look out dar and dar all dat water!

Dey got some boats we put de stuff on, and float de wagons and swim de mules and finally git
across, but it look lak we gwine all drown.

Most de folks say dey going to Boggy Depot and around Fort Washita, but old Master strike off
by hisself and go way down in de bottom somewhar to live.

I don't know whar it was, but dey been some kind of fighting all around dar, 'cause we camp
in houses and cabins all de time and nobody live in any of 'em.

Look like de people all git away quick, 'cause all de stuff was in de houses, but you better
scout up around de house before you go up to it. Liable to be some scouters already in it!

Dem Indian soldiers jest quit de army and lots went scouting in little bunches and took everything
dey find. Iffen somebody try to stop dem dey git killed.

Sometime we find graves in de yard whar somebody jest been buried fresh, and one house had
some dead people in it when old Mistress poke her head in it. We git away from dar, and no mistake!

By and by we find a little cabin and stop and stay all de time. I was de only slave by dat
time. All de others done slip out and run off. We stay dar two year I reckon, 'cause we make
two little crop of corn. For meat a man name Mr. Walker wid us jest went out in de woods and
shoot de wild hogs. De woods was full of dem wild hogs, and lots of fish in de holes whar he
could sicken 'em wid buck root and catch 'em wid his hands, all we wanted.

I don't know when de War quit off, and when I git free, but I stayed wid old man Tuskaya-hiniha
long time after I was free, I reckon. I was jest a little girl, and he didn't know whar to
send me to, anyways.

One day three men rid up and talk to de old man awhile in English talk. Den he called me and
tell me to go wid dem to find my own family. He jest laugh and slap my behind and set me up
on de hoss in front of one de men and dey take me off and leave my good checkedy dress at de house!

Before long we git to dat Canadian river again, and de men tie me on de hoss so I can't fall
off. Dar was all dat water, and dey ain't no boat, and dey ain't no bridge, and we jest swim
de hosses. I knowed sho' I was going to be gone dat time, but we git across.

When we come to de Creek Agency dar is my pappy and my mammy to claim me, and I live wid dem
in de Verdigris bottom above Fort Gibson till I was grown and dey is both dead. Den I marries
Anderson Davis at Gibson Station, and we git our allotments on de Verdigris east of Tulsa--kind
of south too, close to de Broken Arrow town.

I knowed old man Jim McHenry at dat Broken Arrow town. He done some preaching and was a good
old man, I think.

I knowed when dey started dat Wealaka school across de river from de Broken Arrow town. Dey
name it for de Wilaki town, but dat town was way down in de Upper Creek country close to whar
I lived when I was a girl.

I had lots of children, but only two is alive now. My boy Anderson got in a mess and went to
dat McAlester prison, but he got to be a trusty and dey let him marry a good woman dat got
lots of property dar, and dey living all right now.

When my old man die I come to live here wid Josephine, but I'se blind and can't see nothing
and all de noises pesters me a lot in de town. And de children is all so ill mannered, too.
Dey jest holler at you all de time! Dey don't mind you neither!

When I could see and had my own younguns I could jest set in de corner and tell 'em what to
do, and iffen dey didn't do it right I could whack 'em on de head, 'cause dey was raised de
old Creek way, and dey know de old folks know de best!

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves [HR: (photo)] [Date stamp: AUG 16 1937]

ANTHONY DAWSON Age 105 yrs. 1008 E. Owen St., Tulsa, Okla.

    "Run nigger, run,
    De Patteroll git you!
    Run nigger, run,
    De Patteroll come!

    "Watch nigger, watch--
    De Patteroll trick you!
    Watch nigger, watch,
    He got a big gun!"

Dat one of the songs de slaves all knowed, and de children down on de "twenty acres" used to
sing it when dey playing in de moonlight 'round de cabins in de quarters. Sometime I wonder
iffen de white folks didn't make dat song up so us niggers would keep in line.

None of my old Master's boys tried to git away 'cepting two, and dey met up wid evil, both of 'em.

One of dem niggers was fotching a bull-tongue from a piece of new ground way at de back of
de plantation, and bringing it to my pappy to git it sharped. My pappy was de blacksmith.

Dis boy got out in de big road to walk in de soft sand, and long come a wagon wid a white overseer
and five, six, niggers going somewhar. Dey stopped and told dat boy to git in and ride. Dat
was de last anybody seen him.

Dat overseer and another one was cotched after awhile, and showed up to be underground railroaders.
Dey would take a bunch of niggers into town for some excuse, and on de way jest pick up a extra
nigger and show him whar to go to git on de "railroad system." When de runaway niggers got
to de North dey had to go in de army, and dat boy from our place got killed. He was a good
boy, but dey jest talked him into it. Dem railroaders was honest, and dey didn't take no presents,
but de patrollers was low white trash!

We all knowed dat if a patroller jest rode right by and didn't say nothing dat he was doing
his honest job, but iffen he stopped his hoss and talked to a nigger he was after some kind
of trade.

Dat other black boy was hoeing cotton way in de back of de field and de patroller rid up and
down de big road, saying nothing to nobody.

De next day another white man was on de job, and long in de evening a man come by and axed
de niggers about de fishing and hunting! Dat black boy seen he was de same man what was riding
de day befo' and he knowed it was a underground trick. But he didn't see all de trick, bless God!

We found out afterwards dat he told his mammy about it. She worked at de big house and she
stole something for him to give dat low white trash I reckon, 'cause de next day he played
sick along in de evening and de black overlooker--he was my uncle--sent him back to de quarters.

He never did git there, but when dey started de hunt dey found him about a mile away in de
woods wid his head shot off, and old Master sold his mammy to a trader right away. He never
whipped his grown niggers.

Dat was de way it worked. Dey was all kinds of white folks jest like dey is now. One man in
Sesesh clothes would shoot you if you tried to run away. Maybe another Sesesh would help slip
you out to the underground and say "God bless you poor black devil", and some of dem dat was
poor would help you if you could bring 'em sumpin you stole, lak a silver dish or spoons or
a couple big hams. I couldn't blame them poor white folks, wid the men in the War and the women
and children hongry. The niggers didn't belong to them nohow, and they had to live somehow.
But now and then they was a devil on earth, walking in the sight of God and spreading iniquity
before him. He was de low-down Sesesh dat would take what a poor runaway nigger had to give
for his chance to git away, and den give him 'structions dat would lead him right into de hands
of de patrollers and git him caught or shot!

Yes, dat's de way it was. Devils and good people walking in de road at de same time, and nobody
could tell one from t'other.

I remember about de trickery so good 'cause I was "grown and out" at that time. When I was
a little boy I was a house boy, 'cause my mammy was the house woman, but when the war broke
I already been sent to the fields and mammy was still at de house.

I was born on July 25, 1832. I know, 'cause old Master keep de book on his slaves jest like
on his own family. He was a good man, and old Mistress was de best woman in de world!

De plantation had more than 500 acres and most was in cotton and tobacco. But we raised corn
and oats, and lots of cattle and horses, and plenty of sheep for wool.

I was born on the plantation, soon after my pappy and mammy was brought to it. I don't remember
whether they was bought or come from my Mistress's father. He was mighty rich and had several
hundred niggers. When she was married he give her 40 niggers. One of them was my pappy's brother.
His name was John, and he was my master's overlooker.

We called a white man boss the "overseer", but a nigger was a overlooker. John could read and
write and figger, and old Master didn't have no white overseer.

Master's name was Levi Dawson, and his plantation was 18 miles east of Greenville, North Carolina.
It was a beautiful place, with all the fences around the Big House and along the front made
out of barked poles, rider style, and all whitewashed.

The Big House set back from the big road about a quarter of a mile. It was only one story,
but it had lots of rooms.

There was four rooms in a bunch on one side and four in a bunch on the other, with a wide hall
in between. They was made of square adzed logs, all weatherboarded on the outside and planked
up and plastered on the inside. Then they was a long gallery clean across the front with big
pillars made out of bricks and plastered over. They called it the passage 'cause it din't have
no floor excepting bricks, and a buggy could drive right under it. Mostly it was used to set
under and talk and play cards and drink the best whiskey old Master could buy.

Back in behind the big house was the kitchen, and the smokehouse in another place made of plank,
and all was whitewashed and painted white all the time.

Old Mistress was named Miss Susie and she was born an Isley. She brought 40 niggers from her
pappy as a present, and Master Levi jest had 4 or 5, but he had got all his land from his pappy.
She had the niggers and he had the land. That's the way it was, and that's the way it stayed!
She never let him punish one of her niggers and he never asked her about buying or selling
land. Her pappy was richer than his pappy, and she was sure quality!

My pappy's name was Anthony, and mammy's name was Chanie. He was the blacksmith and fixed the
wagons, but he couldn't read and figger like uncle John. Mammy was the head house woman but
didn't know any letters either.

They was both black like me. Old man Isley, where they come from, had lots of niggers, but
I don't think they was off the boat.

You can set the letters up and I can't tell them, but you can't fool me with the figgers, 'less
they are mighty big numbers.

Master Levi had three sons and no daughters. The oldest son was Simeon. He was in the Sesesh
army. The other two boys was too young. I can't remember their names. They was a lot younger
and I was grown and out befo' they got big.

Old Master was a fine Christian but he like his juleps anyways. He let us niggers have preachings
and prayers, and would give us a parole to go 10 or 15 miles to a camp meeting and stay two
or three days with nobody but Uncle John to stand for us. Mostly we had white preachers, but
when we had a black preacher that was Heaven.

We didn't have no voodoo women nor conjure folks at our 20 acres. We all knowed about the Word
and the unseen Son of God and we didn't put no stock in conjure.

Course we had luck charms and good and bad signs, but everybody got dem things even nowadays.
My boy had a white officer in the Big War and he tells me that man had a li'l old doll tied
around his wrist on a gold chain.

We used herbs and roots for common ailments, like sassafras and boneset and peach tree poultices
and coon root tea, but when a nigger got bad sick Old Master sent for a white doctor. I remember
that old doctor. He lived in Greenville and he had to come 18 miles in a buggy.

When he give some nigger medicine he would be afraid the nigger was like lots of them that
believed in conjure, and he would say, "If you don't take that medicine like I tell you and
I have to come back here to see you I going to break your dam black neck next time I come out
here!"

When it was bad weather sometime the black boy sent after him had to carry a lantern to show
him the way back. If that nigger on his mule got too fur ahead so old doctor couldn't see de
light he sho' catch de devil from that old doctor and from old Master, too, less'n he was one
of old Missy's house niggers, and then old Master jest grumble to satisfy the doctor.

Down in the quarters we had the spinning house, where the old woman card the wool and run the
loom. They made double weave for the winter time, and all the white folks and slaves had good
clothes and good food.

Master made us all eat all we could hold. He would come to the smokehouse and look in and say,
"You niggers ain't cutting down that smoke side and that souse lak you ought to! You made dat
meat and you got to help eat it up!"

Never no work on Sunday 'cepting the regular chores. The overlooker made everybody clean up
and wash de children up and after the praying we had games. Antny over and marbles and "I Spy"
and de likes of that. Some times de boys would go down in de woods and git a possum. I love
possum and sweet taters, but de coon meat more delicate and de har don't stink up de meat.

I wasn't at the quarters much as a boy. I was at the big house with my mammy, and I had to
swing the fly bresh over my old Mistress when she was sewing or eating or taking her nap. Sometime
I would keep the flies off'n old Master, and when I would get tired and let the bresh slap
his neck he would kick at me and cuss me, but he never did reach me. He had a way of keeping
us little niggers scared to death and never hurting nobody.

I was down in the field burning bresh when I first heard the guns in the War. De fighting was
de battle at Kingston, North Carolina, and it lasted four days and nights. After while bunches
of Sesesh come riding by hauling wounded people in wagons, and then pretty soon big bunches
of Yankees come by, but dey didn't ack like dey was trying very hard to ketch up.

Dey had de country in charge quite some time, and they had forages coming round all the time.
By dat time old Master done buried his money and all de silver and de big clock, but the Yankees
didn't pear to search out dat kind of stuff. All dey ask about was did anybody find a bottle
of brandy!

When de War ended up most all de niggers stay with old Master and work on de shares, until
de land git divided up and sold off and the young niggers git scattered to town.

I never did have no truck wid de Ku Kluckers, but I had to step mighty high to keep out'n it!
De sho' nuff Kluxes never did bother around us 'cause we minded our own business and never
give no trouble.

We wouldn't let no niggers come 'round our place talking 'bout delegates and voting, and we
jest all stayed on the place. But dey was some low white trash and some devilish niggers made
out like dey was Ku Klux ranging 'round de country stealing hosses and taking things. Old Master
said dey wasn't shore enough, so I reckon he knowed who the regular ones was.

These bunches that come around robbing got into our neighborhood and old Master told me I better
not have my old horse at the house, 'cause if I had him they would know nobody had been there
stealing and it wouldn't do no good to hide anything 'cause they would tear up the place hunting
what I had and maybe whip or kill me.

"Your old hoss aint no good, Tony, and you better kill him to make them think you already been
raided on," old Master told me, so I led him out and knocked him in the head with an axe, and
then we hid all our grub and waited for the Kluckers to come most any night, but they never
did come. I borried a hoss to use in the day and took him back home every night for about a year.

The niggers kept talking about being free, but they wasn't free then and they ain't now.

Putting them free jest like putting goat hair on a sheep. When it rain de goat come a running
and git in de shelter, 'cause his hair won't shed the rain and he git cold, but de sheep ain't
got sense enough to git in the shelter but jest stand out and let it rain on him all day.

But the good Lord fix the sheep up wid a woolly jacket that turn the water off, and he don't
git cold, so he don't have to have no brains.

De nigger during slavery was like de sheep. He couldn't take care of hisself but his Master
looked out for him and he didn't have to use his brains. De master's protection was like de
wooly coat.

But de 'mancipation come and take off de woolly coat and leave de nigger wid no protection
and he cain't take care of hisself either.

When de niggers was sot free lots of them got mighty uppity, and everybody wanted to be a delegate
to something or other. The Yankees told us we could go down and vote in the 'lections and our
color was good enough to run for anything. Heaps of niggers believed them. You cain't fault
them for that, 'cause they didn't have no better sense, but I knowed the black folks didn't
have no business mixing in until they knowed more.

It was a long time after the War before I went down to vote and everything quiet by that time,
but I heard people talk about the fights at the schoolhouse when they had the first election.

I jest stayed on around the old place a long time, and then I got on another piece of ground
and farmed, not far from Greenville until 1900. Then I moved to Hearn, Texas, and stayed with
my son Ed until 1903 when we moved to Sapulpa in the Creek Nation. We come to Tulsa several
years ago, and I been living with him ever since.

I can't move off my bed now, but one time I was strong as a young bull. I raised seven boys
and seven girls. My boys was named Edward, Joseph, Furney, Julius, James, and William, and
my girls was Luvenia, Olivia, Chanie Mamie, Rebecca and Susie.

I always been a deep Christian and depend on God and know his unseen Son, the King of Glory.
I learned about Him when I was a little boy. Old Master was a good man, but on some of the
plantations the masters wasn't good men and the niggers didn't get the Word.

I never did get no reading and writing 'cause I never did go to the schools. I thought I was
too big, but they had schools and the young ones went.

But I could figger, and I was a good farmer, and now I bless the Lord for all his good works.
Everybody don't know it I reckon, but we all needed each other. The blacks needed the whites,
and still do.

There's a difference in the color of the skin, but the souls is all white, or all black, 'pending
on the man's life and not on his skin. The old fashioned meetings is busted up into a thousand
different kinds of churches and only one God to look after them. All is confusion, but I ain't
going to worry my old head about 'em. Oklahoma City, Okla.

I was born December 22, 1860 in Sumner County, Tennessee. My mother--I mean mammy, 'cause what
did we know 'bout mother and mamma. Master and Mistress made dey chillun call all nigger women,
"Black Mammy." Jest as I was saying my mammy was named Millie Elkins and my pappy was named
Isaac Garrett. My sisters and brothers was Frank, Susie and Mollie. They is all in Nashville,
Tennessee right now. They lived in log houses. I 'member my grandpappy and when he died. I
allus slept in the Big House in a cradle wid white babies.

We all the time wore cotton dresses and we weaved our own cloth. The boys jest wore shirts.
Some wore shoes, and I sho' did. I kin see 'em now as they measured my feets to git my shoes.
We had doctors to wait on us iffen we got sick and ailing. We wore asafedida to keep all diseases
offen us.

When a nigger man got ready to marry, he go and tell his master that they was a woman on sech
and sech a farm that he'd lak to have. Iffen master give his resent, then he go and ask her
master and iffen he say yes, well, they jest jump the broomstick. Mens could jest see their
wives on Sadday nite.

They laid peoples 'cross barrels and whupped 'em wid bull whups till the blood come. They'd
half feed 'em and niggers'd steal food and cook all night. The things we was forced to do then
the whites is doing of their own free will now. You gotta reap jest what you sow 'cause the
Good Book says it.

They used to bid niggers off and then load 'em on wagons and take 'em to cotton farms to work.
I never seen no cotton till I come heah. Peoples make big miration 'bout girls having babies
at 11 years old. And you better have them whitefolks some babies iffen you didn't wanta be
sold. Though a funny thing to me is, iffen a nigger woman had a baby on the boat on the way
to the cotton farms, they throwed it in the river. Taking 'em to them cotton farms is jest
the reason niggers is so plentiful in the South today.

I ain't got no education a'tall. In dem days you better not be caught with a newspaper, else
you got a beating and your back almost cut off. When niggers got free, whitefolks killed 'em
by the carload, 'cause they said it was a nigger uprising. I used to lay on the flo' with the
whitefolks and hear 'em pass. Them patrollers roved trying to ketch niggers without passes
to whup 'em. They was sometimes called bush whackers.

We went to white folks' church. I was a great big girl before we went to cullud church. We'd
stay out and play while they worshipped. We jest played marbles--girls, white chillun and all.

The Yankees come thoo' and took all the meat and everything they could find. They took horses,
food and all. Mammy cooked their vittles. One come in our cabin and took a sack of dried fruit
with my mammy's shoes on the top. I tried to make 'em leave mammy's shoes too but he didn't.

I stayed in the house with the whitefolks till I was 19. They lak to kept me in there too long.
That's why I'm selfish as I am. Within three weeks after I was out of the house, I married
William Douglass. Whitefolks now don't want you to tech 'em, and I slept with white chillun
till I was 19. You kin cook for 'em and put your hands in they vittles and they don't say nothing,
but jest you tech one!

We stayed on, on the place, three or four years and it was right then mammy give us our pappy's
name. We moved from the place to one three or four miles from our master's place, and mammy
cooked there a long time.

Abraham Lincoln gits too much praise. I say, shucks, give God the praise. Lincoln come thoo'
Gallitan, Tennessee and stopped at Hotel Tavern with his wife. They was dressed jest lak tramps
and nobody knowed it was him and his wife till he got to the White House and writ back and
told 'em to look 'twixt the leaves in the table where he had set and they sho' nuff found out
it was him.

I never mentions Jeff Davis. He ain't wuff it.

Booker T. Washington was all right in his place. He come here and told these whitefolks jest
what he thought. Course he wouldn't have done that way down South. I declare to God he sho'
told 'em enough. They toted him 'round on their hands. No Jim Crow here then.

I jined the church 'cause I had religion round 60 years ago. People oughta be religious sho';
what for they wanta live in sin and die and go to the Bad Man. To git to Heaven, you sho' ought
to work some. I want a resting place somewhar, 'cause I ain't got none here. I am a member
of Tabernacle Baptist Church, and I help build the first church in Oklahoma City.

I got three boys and three girls. I don't know none's age. I give 'em the best education I could.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves [Date stamp: AUG 13 1937]

DOC DANIEL DOWDY Age 81 yrs. Oklahoma City, Oklahoma

I was born June 6, 1856 in Madison County, Georgia. Father was named Joe Dowdy and mother was
named Mary Dowdy. There was 9 of us boys, George, Smith, Lewis, Henry, William, myself, Newt,
James and Jeff. There was one girl and she was my twin, and her name was Sarah. My mother and
father come from Richmond, Va., to Georgia. Father lived on one side of the river and my mother
on the other side. My father would come over ever week to visit us. Noah Meadows bought my
father and Elizabeth Davis, daughter of the old master took my mother. They married in Noah
Meadows' house.

My mother was the cook in the Big House. They'd give us pot likker with bread crumbs in it.
Sometimes meat, jest sometimes, very seldom. I liked black-eyed peas and still do till now.
We lived in weatherboard house. Our parents had corded-up beds with ropes and us chillun slept
on the floor for most part or in a hole bored in a log. Our house had one window jest big enough
to stick your head out of, and one door, and this one door faced the Big House which was your
master's house. This was so that you couldn't git out 'less somebody seen you.

My job was picking up chips and keeping the calves and cows separate so that the calves wouldn't
suck the cows dry. Mostly, we had Saturday afternoons off to wash. I was show boy doing [HW:
during] the war, me and my sister, 'cause we was twins. My mother couldn't be bought 'cause
she done had 9 boys for one farm and neither my father, 'cause he was the father of 'em. I
was religious and didn't play much, but I sho' did like to listen to preachings. I did used
to play marbles sometimes.

We jest wore shirts and nothing else both winter and summer. They was a little heavier in winter
and that's all. No shoes ever. I had none till after I was set free. I guess I was almost 12
years old then.

The overseer on our place was a large tall, black man. We had plenty poor white neighbors.
They was one of our biggest troubles. They'd allus look in our window and door all the time.

I saw slaves sold. I can see that old block now. My cousin Eliza was a pretty girl, really
good looking. Her master was her father. When the girls in the big house had beaux coming to
see 'em, they'd ask, "Who is that pretty gal?" So they decided to git rid of her right away.
The day they sold her will allus be remembered. They stripped her to be bid off and looked
at. I wasn't allowed to stand in the crowd. I was laying down under a fig brush. The man that
bought Eliza was from New York. The Negroes had made up nuff money to buy her off theyself,
but they wouldn't let that happen. There was a man bidding for her who was a Swedeland. He
allus bid for the good looking cullud gals and bought 'em for his own use. He ask the man from
New York, "Whut you gonna do with her when you git 'er?" The man from New York said, "None
of your damn business, but you ain't got money nuff to buy 'er." When the man from New York
had done bought her, he said, "Eliza, you are free from now on." She left and went to New York
with him. Mama and Eliza both cried when she was being showed off, and master told 'em to shet
up before he knocked they brains out.

Iffen you didn't do nothing wrong, they whipped you now and then anyhow. I called a boy Johnny
once and he took me 'hind the garden and poured it on me and made me call him master. It was
from then on I started to fear the white man. I come to think of him as a bear. Sometimes fellows
would be a little late making it in and they got whipped with a cow-hide. The same man whut
whipped me to make me call him master, well, he whipped my mamma. He tied her to a tree and
beat her unmerciful and cut her tender parts. I don't know why he tied her to that tree.

The first time you was caught trying to read or write, you was whipped with a cow-hide, the
next time with a cat-o-nine tails and the third time they cut the first jint offen your forefinger.
They was very severe. You most allus got 30 and 9 lashes.

They carried news from one plantation by whut they call relay. Iffen you was caught, they whipped
you till you said, "Oh, pray Master!" One day a man gitting whipped was saying "Oh pray master,
Lord have mercy!" They'd say "Keep whipping that nigger Goddamn him." He was whipped till he
said, "Oh pray Master, I gotta nuff." Then they said, "Let him up now, 'cause he's praying
to the right man."

My father was the preacher and an educated man. You know the sermon they give him to preach?--Servant,
Obey Your Master. Our favorite baptizing hymn was On Jordan's Stormy Bank I Stand. My favorite
song is Nobody Knows the Trouble I've Seen.

Oh, them patrollers! They had a chief and he git'em together and iffen they caught you without
a pass and sometimes with a pass, they'd beat you. But iffen you had a pass, they had to answer
to the law. One old master had two slaves, brothers, on his place. They was both preachers.
Mitchell was a hardshell Baptist and Andrew was a Missionary Baptist. One day the patroller
chief was rambling thoo' the place and found some letters writ to Mitchell and Andrew. He went
to the master and said, "Did you know you had some niggers that could read and write?" Master
said, "No, but I might have, who do you 'spect?" The patroller answered, "Mitchell and Andrew."
The old master said, "I never knowed Andrew to tell me a lie 'bout nothing!"

Mitchell was called first and asked could he read and write. He was scared stiff. He said,
"Naw-sir." Andrew was called and asked. He said, "Yes-sir." He was asked iffen Mitchell could.
He said, "Sho', better'n me." The master told John Arnold, the patroller chief, not to bother
'em. He gloried in they spunk. When the old master died, he left all of his niggers a home
apiece. We had Ku Klux Klans till the government sent Federal officers out and put a stop to
their ravaging and sent 'em to Sing Sing.

Doing the war my father was carpenter. His young master come to him 'cause he was a preacher
and asked him must he go to the front and my father told him not to go 'cause he wouldn't make
it. He went on jest the same and when he come back my father had to tote him in the house 'cause
he had one leg tore off. The Yankees come thoo', ramshacked houses, leave poor horses and take
fat ones and turn the poor ones in the corn they left. They took everthing they could. They
cussed niggers who dodged 'em for being fools and make 'em show 'em everything they knowed
whar was.

Our old master was mighty old and him and the women folks cried when we was freed. He told
us we was free as he was.

I come to Oklahoma in 1906. I come out of that riot in 1906. Some fellow knocked up a colored
woman or something and we waded right in and believe me we made Atlanta a fit place to live
in. It is one of the best cities in America.

I married Miss Emmaline Witt. I carried her to the preacher one of the coldest nights I ever
rid. I have three chillun and don't know how many grandchillun. My chillun is one a nurse,
one in Arizona for his health and the other doing first one thing and another.

I think Abraham Lincoln was the greatest human being ever been on earth 'cepting the Apostle
Paul. Who any better'n a man who liberated 4,000,000 Negroes? Some said he wasn't a Christian,
but he told some friends once, "I'm going to leave you and may never see you again (and he
didn't) so I'm going to take the Divine Spirit with me and leave it with you."

Jeff Davis was as bloody as he could be. I don't lak him a'tall. But you know good things come
from enemies. I don't even admire George Washington. White men from the south that will help
the Negro is far and few between. Booker T. Washington was a great man. He made some blunders
and mistakes, but he was a great man. He is the father of industrial education and you know
that sho' is a great thing.

The white folks was ignorant. You know the better you prepare yourself the better you act.
Iffen they had put some sense in our heads 'stead of sticks on our heads, we'ud been better
off and more benefit to 'em.

I had something from within that made me fear God and taught me how to pray. People say God
don't hear sinners pray, but he do. Everybody ought to be Christians so not to be lost.

I work in real estate and can do a lot of work. I don't use no crutches and no cane and walk
all the time, never hardly ride. I come in at 1 and 2 o'clock a. m. and get up between 8 and
9 a. m. 'cept Sundays, I get up at 7 or 8 a. m. so I can be ready to go to Sunday School. I
cook for my own self all the time too. I am a Baptist and a member of Tabernacle Baptist Church.
I am a trustee in my church too. Tulsa, Okla.

Most folks can't remember many things happened to 'em when they only eight years old, but one
of my biggest tribulations come about dat time and I never will forget it! That was when I
was took away from my own mammy and pappy and sent off and bound out to another man, way off
two-three hundred miles away from whar I live. And dat's the last time I ever see either one
of them, or any my own kinfolks!

Whar I was born was at Hazelhurst, Mississippi. Jest a little piece east of Hazelhurst, close
to the Pearl River, and that place was a kind of new plantation what my Master, Dr. Alexander,
bought when he moved into Mississippi from up in Virginia awhile before the War.

They said my mammy brings me down to Mississippi, and I was born jest right after she got there.
My mammy's name was Margaret, and she was born under the Ramson's, back in Tennessee. She belonged
to Dave Ramson, and his pappy had come to Tennessee to settle on war land, and he had knowed
Dr. Alexander's people back in Virginia too. My pappy's name was Addison, and he always belonged
to Dr. Alexander. Old doctor bought my mammy 'cause my pappy liked her. Old doctor live in
Tennessee a little while before he go on down in Mississippi.

Old doctor's wife named Dinah, and she sho' was a good woman, but I don't remember about old
doctor much. He was away all the time, it seem like.

When I is about six year old they take me into the Big House to learn to be a house woman,
and they show me how to cook and clean up and take care of babies. That Big House wasn't very
fine, but it was mighty big and cool, and made out of logs with a big hall, but it didn't have
no long gallery like most the houses around there had.

They was lots of big trees in the yard, and most the ground was new ground 'round that place,
'cause the old Doctor jest started to done farming on it when I was took away, but he had some
more places not so far away, over towards the river that was old ground and made big crops
for him. I went to one of the places one time, but they wasn't nobody on 'em but niggers and
a white overseer. I don't know how many niggers old Doctor had, but Master John Deeson say
he had about a hundred.

At old Doctor's house I didn't have to work very hard. Jest had to help the cooks and peel
the potatoes and pick the guineas and chickens and do things like that. Sometime I had to watch
the baby. He was a little boy, and they would bring him into the kitchen for me to watch. I
had to git up way before daylight and make the fire in the kitchen fireplace and bring in some
fresh water, and go get the milk what been down in the spring all night, and do things like
that until breakfast ready. Old Master and old Mistress come in the big hall to eat in the
summer, and I stand behind them and shoo off the flies.

Old doctor didn't have no spinning and weaving niggers 'cause he say they don't do enough work
and he buy all the cloth he use for everybody's clothes. He can do that 'cause he had lots
of money. He was big rich, and he keep a whole lot of hard money in the house all the time,
but none of the slaves know it but me. Sometimes I would have the baby in the Mistress' room
and she would go git three or four big wood boxes full of hard money for us to play with. I
would make fences out of the money all across the floor, to keep the baby satisfied, and when
he go to sleep I would put the money back in the boxes. I never did know how much they is,
but a whole lot.

Even after the War start old Doctor have that money, and he would exchange money for people.
Sometimes he would go out and be gone a long time, and come back with a lot more money he got
from somewhar.

Right at the first they made him a high officer in the War and he done doctoring somewhar at
a hospital most of the time. But he could go on both sides of the War, and sometime he would
come in at night and bring old Mistress pretty little things, and I heard him tell her he got
them in the North.

One day I was fanning him and I asked him is he been to the North and he kick out at me and
tell to shut up my black mouth, and it nearly scared me to death the way he look at me! Nearly
every time he been gone and come in and tell Mistress he been in the North he have a lot more
hard money to put away in them boxes, too!

One evening long come a man and eat supper at the house and stay all night. He was a nice mannered
man, and I like to wait on him. The next morning I hear him ask old Doctor what is my name,
and old Doctor start in to try to sell me to that man. The man say he can't buy me 'cause old
Doctor say he want a thousand dollars, and then old Doctor say he will bind me out to him.

I run away from the house and went out to the cabin whar my mammy and pappy was, but they tell
me to go on back to the Big House 'cause maybe I am just scared. But about that time old Doctor
and the man come and old Doctor make me go with the man. We go in his buggy a long ways off
to the South, and after he stop two or three night at peoples houses and put me out to stay
with the niggers he come to his own house. I ask him how far it is back home and he say about
a hundred miles or more, and laugh, and ask me if I know how far that is.

I wants to know if I can go back to my mammy some time, and he say "Sho', of course you can,
some of these times. You don't belong to me, Jo, I'se jest your boss and not your master."

He live in a big old rottendy house, but he aint farming none of the land. Jest as soon as
he git home he go off again, and sometimes he only come in at night for a little while.

His wife's name was Kate and his name was Mr. John. I was there about a week before I found
out they name was Deeson. They had two children, a girl about my size name Joanna like me,
and a little baby boy name Johnny. One day Mistress Kate tell me I the only nigger they got.
I been thinking maybe they had some somewhar on a plantation, but she say they aint got no
plantation and they aint been at that place very long either.

That little girl Joanna and me kind of take up together, and she was a mighty nice mannered
little girl, too. Her mammy raised her good. Her mammy was mighty sickly all the time, and
that's the reason they bind me to do the work.

Mr. John was in some kind of business in the War too, but I never see him with no soldier clothes
on but one time. One night he come in with them on, but the next morning he come to breakfast
in jest his plain clothes again. Then he go off again.

I sho' had a hard row at that house. It was old and rackady, and I had to scrub off the staircase
and the floors all the time, and git the breakfast for Mistress Kate and the two children.
Then I could have my own breakfast in the kitchen. Mistress Kate always get the supper, though.

Some days she go off with the two children and leave me at the house all day by myself, and
I think maybe I run off, but I didn't know whar to go.

After I been at that place two years Mr. John come home and stay. He done some kind of trading
in Jackson, Mississippi, and he would be gone three or four days at a time, but I never did
know what kind of trading it was.

About the time he come home to stay I seen the first Ku Klux I ever seen one night. I was going
down the road in the moonlight and I heard a hog grunting out in the bushes at the side of
the road. I jest walk right on and in a little ways I hear another hog in some more bushes.
This time I stop and listen, and they's another hog grunts across the road, and about that
time two mens dressed up in long white skirts steps out into the road in front of me! I was
so scared the goose bumps jump up all over me 'cause I didn't know what they is! They didn't
say a word to me, but jest walked on past me and went on back the way I had come. Then I see
two more mens step out of the woods and I run from that as fast as I can go!

I ast Miss Kate what they is and she say they Ku Klux, and I better not go walking off down
the road any more. I seen them two, three times after that, though, but they was riding hosses
them times.

I stayed at Mr. John's place two more years, and he got so grumpy and his wife got so mean
I make up my mind to run off. I bundle up my clothes in a little bundle and hide them, and
then I wait until Miss Kate take the children and go off somewhere, and I light out on foot.
I had me a piece of that hard money what Master Dr. Alexander had give me one time at Christmas.
I had kept it all that time and nobody knowed I had it, not even Joanna. Old Doctor told me
it was fifty dollars, and I thought I could live on it for a while.

I never had been away from that place, not even to another plantation in all the four years
I was with the Deesons, and I didn't know which-a-way to go, so I jest started west.

I been walking about all evening it seem like, and I come to a little town with jest a few
houses. I see a nigger man and ask him whar I can git something to eat, and I say I got fifty
dollars.

"What you doing wid fifty dollars, child? Where you belong at, anyhow?" He ask me, and I tell
him I belong to Master John Deeson, but I is running away. I explain that I jest bound out
to Mr. John, but Dr. Alexander my real master, and then that man tell me the first time I knowed
it that I aint a slave no more!

That man Deeson never did tell me, and his wife never did!

Well, dat man asked me about the fifty dollars, and then I found out that it was jest fifty cents!

I can't begin to tell about all the hard times I had working for something to eat and roaming
around after that. I don't know why I never did try to git back up around Hazelhurst and hunt
up my pappy and mammy, but I reckon I was jest ignorant and didn't know how to go about it.
Anyways I never did see them no more.

In about three years or a little over I met Bryce Draper on a farm in Mississippi and we was
married. His mammy had had a harder time than I had. She had five children by a man that belong
to her master, Mr. Bryce and already named one of the boys--that my husband--Bryce after him,
and then he take her in and sell her off away from all her children!

One was jest a little baby, and the master give it laudanum, but it didn't die, and he sold
her off and lied and said she was a young girl and didn't have no husband, 'cause the man what
bought her said he didn't want to buy no woman and take her away from a family. That new master
name was Draper.

The last year of the War Mr. Draper die, and his wife already dead, and he give all his farm
to his two slaves and set them free. One of them slaves was my husband's mammy.

Then right away the whites come and robbed the place of every thing they could haul off, and
run his mammy and the other niggers off! Then she went and found her boy, that was my husband,
and he live with her until she died, jest before we is married.

We lived in Mississippi a long time, and then we hear about how they better to the Negroes
up in the North, and we go up to Kansas, but they ain't no better there, and we come down to
Indian Territory in the Creek Nation in 1898, jest as they getting in that Spanish War.

We leased a little farm from the Creek Nation for $15 an acre, but when they give out the allotments
we had to give it up. Then we rent 100 acres from some Indians close to Wagoner, and we farm
it all with my family. We had enough to do it too!

For children we had John and Joe, and Henry, and Jim and Robert and Will that was big enough
to work, and then the girls big enough was Mary, Nellie, Izora, Dora, and the baby. Dora married
Max Colbert. His people belonged to the Colberts that had Colbert's Crossin' on the Red River
way before the War, and he was a freedman and got allotment.

I lives with Dora now, and we is all happy, and I don't like to talk about the days of the
slavery times, 'cause they never did mean nothing to me but misery, from the time I was eight
years old.

I never will forgive that white man for not telling me I was free, and not helping me to git
back to my mammy and pappy! Lots of white people done that.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves

MRS. ESTHER EASTER Age 85 yrs. Tulsa, Okla.

I was born near Memphis, Tenn., on the old Ben Moore plantation, but I don't know anything
about the Old South because Master Ben moves us all up into Missouri (about 14-miles east of
Westport, now Kansas City), long before they started fighting about slavery.

Mary Collier was my mother's name before she was a Moore. About my father, I dunno. Mammy was
sickly most of the time when I was a baby, and she was so thin and poorly when they move to
Missouri the white folks afraid she going die on the way.

But she fool 'em, and she live two-three year after that. That's what good Old Master Ben tells
me when I gets older.

I stay with Master Ben's married daughter, Mary, till the coming of the War. Times was good
before the War, and I wasn't suffering none from slavery, except once in a while the Mistress
would fan me with the stick--bet I needed it, too.

When the War come along Master he say to leave Mistress Mary and get ready to go to Texas.
Jim Moore, one of the meanest men I ever see, was the son of Master Ben; he's going take us there.

Demon Jim, that's what I call him when he ain't round the place, but when he's home it was
always Master Jim 'cause he was reckless with the whip. He was a Rebel officer fighting round
the country and didn't take us slaves to Texas right away. So I stayed on at his place not
far from Master Ben's plantation.

Master Jim's wife was a demon, just like her husband. Used the whip all the time, and every
time Master Jim come home he whip me 'cause the Mistress say I been mean.

One time I tell him, you better put me in your pocket (sell me), Master Jim, else I'se going
run away'. He don't pay no mind, and I don't try to run away 'cause of the whips.

I done see one whipping and that enough. They wasn't no fooling about it. A runaway slave from
the Jenkin's plantation was brought back, and there was a public whipping, so's the slaves
could see what happens when they tries to get away.

The runaway was chained to the whipping post, and I was full of misery when I see the lash
cutting deep into that boy's skin. He swell up like a dead horse, but he gets over it, only
he was never no count for work no more.

While Master Jim is out fighting the Yanks, the Mistress is fiddling round with a neighbor
man, Mister Headsmith. I is young then, but I knows enough that Master Jim's going be mighty
mad when he hears about it.

The Mistress didn't know I knows her secret, and I'm fixing to even up for some of them whippings
she put off on me. That's why I tell Master Jim next time he come home.

See that crack in the wall? Master Jim say yes, and I say, it's just like the open door when
the eyes are close to the wall. He peek and see into the bedroom.

That's how I find out about the Mistress and Mister Headsmith, I tells him, and I see he's
getting mad.

What you mean? And Master Jim grabs me hard by the arm like I was trying to get away.

I see them in the bed.

That's all I say. The Demon's got him and Master Jim tears out of the room looking for the
Mistress.

Then I hears loud talking and pretty soon the Mistress is screaming and calling for help, and
if old Master Ben hadn't drop in just then and stop the fight, why, I guess she be beat almost
to death, that how mad the Master was.

Then Master Ben gets mad 'cause his boy Jim ain't got us down in Texas yet. Then we stay up
all the night packing for the trip. Master Jim takes us, but the Mistress stay at home, and
I wonder if Master Jim beat her again when he gets back.

We rides the wagons all the way, how many days, I dunno. The country was wild most of the way,
and I know now that we come through the same country where I lives now, only it was to the
east. (The trip was evidently made over the "Texas Road.") And we keeps on riding and comes
to the big river that's all brown and red looking, (Red River) and the next thing I was sold
to Mrs. Vaughn at Bonham, Texas, and there I stays till after the slaves is free.

The new Mistress was a widow, no children round the place, and she treat me mighty good. She
was good white folks--like old Master Ben, powerful good.

When the word get to us that the slaves is free, the Mistress says I is free to go anywheres
I want. And I tell her this talk about being free sounds like foolishment to me--anyway, where
can I go? She just pat me on the shoulder and say I better stay right there with her, and that's
what I do for a long time. Then I hears about how the white folks down at Dallas pays big money
for house girls and there I goes.

That's all I ever do after that--work at the houses till I gets too old to hobble on these
tired old feets and legs, then I just sits down.

Just sits down and wishes for old Master Ben to come and get me, and take care of this old
woman like he use to do when she is just a little black child on the plantation in Missouri!

God Bless old Master Ben--he was good white folks!

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves

ELIZA EVANS Age 87 McAlester, Okla.

I sho' remember de days when I was a slave and belonged to de best old Master what ever was,
Mr. John Mixon. We lived in Selma, Dallas County, Alabama.

My grandma was a refugee from Africa. You know dey was white men who went slipping 'round and
would capture or entice black folks onto their boats and fetch them over here and sell 'em
for slaves. Well, grandma was a little girl 'bout eight or nine years old and her parents had
sent her out to get wood. Dey was going to have a feast. Dey was going to roast a baby. Wasn't
that awful? Well, they captured her and put a stick in her mouth. The stick held her mouth
wide open so she wouldn't cry out. When she got to de boat she was so tired out she didn't
do nothing.

They was a lot of more colored folks on de boat. It took about four months to get across on
de boat and Mr. John Mixon met the boat and bought her. I think he gave five hundred dollars
for her. She was named Gigi, but Master John called her Gracie. She was so good and they thought
so much of her dat they gave her a grand wedding when she was married. Master John told her
he'd never sell none of her chillun. He kept dat promise and he never did sell any of her grandchillun
either. He thought it was wrong to separate famblys. She was one hundred and three years old
when she died. I guess her mind got kind of feeble 'cause she wandered off and fell into a
mill race and was drowned.

Master John Mixon had two big plantations. I believe he owned about four hundred slaves, chillun
and all. He allowed us to have church one time a month with de white folks and we had prayer
meeting every Sunday. Sometimes when de men would do something like being sassy or lazy and
dey knowed dey was gonna be whipped, dey'd slip off and hide in de woods. When dey'd slip back
to get some food dey would all pray for 'em dat Master wouldn't have 'em whipped too hard,
and for fear the Patroller would hear 'em they'd put their faces down in a dinner pot. I'd
sit out and watch for the Patroller. He was a white man who was appointed to catch runaway
niggers. We all knew him. His name was Howard Campbell. He had a big pack of dogs. The lead
hound was named Venus. There was five or six in the pack, and they was vicious too.

My father was a carriage driver and he allus took the family to church. My mother went along
to take care of the little chilluns. She'd take me too. They was Methodist and after they would
take the sacrament we would allus go up and take it. The niggers could use the whitefolks church
in the afternoon.

De Big House was a grand place. It was a two-story house made out of logs dat had been peeled
and smoothed off. There was five big rooms and a big open hall wid a wide front porch clean
across de front. De porch had big posts and pretty banisters. It was painted white and had
green shutters on de windows. De kitchen was back of de Big House.

De slaves quarters was about a quarter of a mile from de Big House. Their houses was made of
logs and the cracks was daubed with mud. They would have two rooms. Our bedsteads was made
of poplar wood and we kept them scrubbed white with sand. We used roped woven together for
slats. Our mattresses were made of cotton, grass, or even shucks. My mother had a feather bed.
The chairs was made from cedar with split white oak bottoms.

Each family kept their own home and cooked and served their own meals. We used wooden trays
and wooden spoons. Once a week all the cullud chillun went to the Big House to eat dinner.
The table was out in de yard. My nickname was "Speck". I didn't like to eat bread and milk
when I went up there and I'd just sit there. Finally they'd let me go in de house and my mother
would feed me. She was the house woman and my Auntie was cook. I don't know why they had us
up there unless it was so they could laugh at us.

None of old Master's young niggers never did much work. He say he want 'em to grow up strong.
He gave us lots to eat. He had a store of bacon, milk, bread, beans and molasses. In summer
we had vegetables. My mother could make awful good corn pone. She would take meal and put salt
in it and pour boiling water over it and make into pones. She'd wrap these pones in wet cabbage
or collard leaves and roll dem into hot ashes and bake dem. They sho' was good. We'd have possum
and coon and fish too.

The boys never wore no britches in de summer time. Boys fifteen years old would wear long shirts
with no sleeves and they went barefooted. De girls dressed in shimmys. They was a sort of dress
with two seams in it and no sleeves.

Old Master had his slaves to get up about five o'clock. Dey did an ordinary day's work. He
never whipped them unless they was lazy or sassy or had a fight. Sometimes his slaves would
run away but they allus come back. We didn't have no truck with railroaders 'cause we like
our home.

A woman cussed my mother and it made her mad and they had a fight. Old Master had them both
whipped. My mother got ten licks and de other woman got twenty-five. Old Mistress sho' was
mad 'cause mother got whipped. Said he wouldn't have done it if she had known it. Old Mistress
taught mother how to read and write and mother taught my father. I went to school jest one
day so I can't read and write now.

Weddings was big days. We'd have big dinners and dances once in a while [HW: and] when somebody
died they'd hold a wake. They'd sit up all night and sing and pray and talk. At midnight they'd
serve sandwiches and coffee. Sometimes we'd all get together and play ring plays and dance.

Once the Yankee soldiers come. I was big enough to tote pails and piggins then. These soldiers
made us chillun tote water to fill their canteens and water their horses. We toted the water
on our heads. Another time we heard the Yankee's was coming and old Master had about fifteen
hundred pounds of meat. They was hauling it off to bury it and hide it when the Yankees caught
them. The soldiers ate and wasted every bit of that good meat. We didn't like them a bit.

One time some Yankee soldiers stopped and started talking to me--they asked me what my name
was. "I say Liza," and they say, "Liza who?" I thought a minute and I shook my head, "Jest
Liza, I ain't got no other name."

He say, "Who live up yonder in dat Big House?" I say, "Mr. John Mixon." He say, "You are Liza
Mixon." He say, "Do anybody ever call you nigger?" And I say, "Yes Sir." He say, "Next time
anybody call you nigger you tell 'em dat you is a Negro and your name is Miss Liza Mixon."
The more I thought of that the more I liked it and I made up my mind to do jest what he told me to.

My job was minding the calves back while the cows was being milked. One evening I was minding
the calves and old Master come along. He say, "What you doin' nigger?" I say real pert like,
"I ain't no nigger, I'se a Negro and I'm Miss Liza Mixon." Old Master sho' was surprised and
he picks up a switch and starts at me.

Law, but I was skeered! I hadn't never had no whipping so I run fast as I can to Grandma Gracie.
I hid behind her and she say, "What's the matter of you child?" And I say, "Master John gwine
whip me." And she say, "What you done?" And I say, "Nothing." She say she know better and 'bout
that time Master John got there. He say, "Gracie, dat little nigger sassed me." She say, "Lawsie
child, what does ail you?" I told them what the Yankee soldier told me to say and Grandma Gracie
took my dress and lift it over my head and pins my hands inside, and Lawsie, how she whipped
me and I dassent holler loud either. I jest said dat [HW: to] de wrong person. [TR: "didn't
I?" at end was crossed out.]

I'se getting old now and can't work no more. I jest sits here and thinks about old times. They
was good times. We didn't want to be freed. We hated the Yankee soldiers. Abe Lincoln was a
good man though, wasn't he? I tries to be a good Christian 'cause I wants to go to Heaven when
I die.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves

LIZZIE FARMER Age 80 years McAlester, Okla.

"Cousin Lizzie!"

"What."

"I'se seventy years old."

And I say, "Whut's you telling me for. I ain't got nothing to do with your age!"

I knowed I was one year older than she was and it sorta riled me for her to talk about it.
I never would tell folks my age for I knowed white folks didn't want no old woman working for
'em and I just wouldn't tell 'em how old I really was. Dat was nine years ago and I guess I'm
seventy five now. I can't work much now.

I was born four years before de War.--"The one what set the cullud folks free." We lived on
a big plantation in Texas. Old Master's name was John Booker and he was good to us all. My
mammy died just at de close of de War and de young mistress took me and kept me and I growed
up with her chillun. I thought I was quality sure nuff and I never would go to school 'cause
I couldn't go 'long to de same school with de white chillun. Young mistress taught me how to
knit, spin, weave, crochet, sew and embroider. I couldn't recollect my age and young Mistress
told me to say, "I'se born de second year of de War dat set de cullud folks free," and the
only time she ever git mad at me was when I forgot to say it jest as she told me to. She take
hold of me and shook me. I recollects all it, all de time.

Young mistress' name was Elizabeth Booker McNew. I'se named after her. She finally gave me
to my aunt when I was a big girl and I never lived wid white folks any more. I never saw my
pappy till I was grown.

In the cullud quarters, we cooked on a fireplace in big iron pots. Our bread was baked in iron
skillets with lids and we would set the skillet on de fire and put coals of fire on de lid.
Bread was mighty good cooked like dat. We made our own candles. We had a candle mold and we
would put a string in the center of the mold and pour melted tallow in it and let it harden.
We would make eight at one time. Quality folks had brass lamps.

When we went to cook our vegetables we would put a big piece of hog jowl in de pot. We'd put
in a lot of snap beans and when dey was about half done we'd put in a mess of cabbage and when
it was about half done we'd put in some squash and when it was about half done we'd put in
some okra. Then when it was done we would take it out a layer at a time. Go 'way! It makes
me hungry to talk about it.

When we cooked possum dat was a feast. We would skin him and dress him and put him on top de
house and let him freeze for two days or nights. Then we'd boil him with red pepper, and take
him out and put him in a pan and slice sweet 'taters and put round him and roast him. My, dat
was good eating.

It was a long time after de War 'fore all de niggers knowed dey was really free. My grandpappy
was Master Booker's overseer. He wouldn't have a white man over his niggers. I saw grandpappy
whip one man with a long whip. Master Booker was good and wouldn't whip 'em less'n he had to.
De niggers dassent leave de farm without a pass for fear of de Ku Kluxers and patrolers.

We would have dances and play parties and have sho' nuff good times. We had "ring plays." We'd
all catch hands and march round, den we'd drop all hands 'cept our pardners and we'd swing
round and sing:

    "You steal my pardner, and I steal yours,
    Miss Mary Jane.
    My true lover's gone away,
    Miss Mary Jane!

    "Steal all round and don't slight none,
    Miss Mary Jane.
    He's lost out but I'se got one,
    Miss Mary Jane!"

We always played at log rollin's an' cotton pickin's.

Sometimes we would have a wedding and my what a good time we'd have. Old Master's daughter,
Miss Janie, got married and it took us more'n three weeks to get ready for it. De house was
cleaned from top to bottom and us chillun had to run errands. Seemed like we was allers under
foot, at least dat was what mammy said. I never will fergit all the good things they cooked
up. Rows of pies and cakes, baked chicken and ham, my, it makes my mouth water jest thinking
of it. After de wedding and de feast de white folks danced all night and us cullud folks ate
all night.

When one of de cullud folks die we would allers hold a "wake." We would set up with de corpse
and sing and pray and at midnight we'd all eat and den we'd sing and pray some more.

In de evening after work was done we'd sit round and de older folks would sing songs. One of
de favorites was:

    "Miss Ca'line gal,
    Yes Ma'am
    Did you see dem buzzards?
    Yes Ma'am,
    Did you see dem floppin',
    How did ye' like 'em?
    Mighty well.
    How did you like 'em?
    Mighty well."

I've heered folks talk about conjures and hoodoo charms. I have a hoss shoe over de door dat
will bring good luck. I sho' do believe certain things bring bad luck. I hate to hear a scrinch
(screech) owl holler at night. Whenever a scrinch owl git in dat tree at night and start to
holler I gits me a stick and I say, "Confound you, I'll make yet set up dar and say 'Umph huh',"
so I goes out and time I gits dar he is gone. If you tie a knot in de corner of de bed sheet
he will leave, or turn your hat wrong side out too. Dey's all good and will make a scrinch
owl leave every time.

I believes in dreams and visions too. I dreamed one night dat I had tall palings all 'round
my house and I went out in de yard and dere was a big black hoss and I say, "How come you is
in my yard? I'll jest put you out jest lak you got in." I opened de gate but he wouldn't go
out and finally he run in de door and through the house and went towards de East. Right after
dat my son died. I saw dat hoss again de other night. A black hoss allus means death. Seeing
it de other night might mean I'se gwineter die.

I know one time a woman named May Runnels wanted to go to church about a mile away and her
old man wouldn't go with her. It made her mad and she say, "I'll be dammed if I don't go."
She had to go through a grave yard and when she was about half way across it a icy hand jest
slap her and her mouth was twisted way 'round fer about three months. Dat was a lesson to her
fer cussing.

One time there was a nigger what belonged on a adjoining farm to Master John Bookers and dey
told us dis story:

"Dis nigger went down to de spring and found a terrapin and he say, 'What brung you here?'
Jest imagine how he felt when it say to him, 'Teeth and tongue brung me here, and teeth and
tongue will bring you here.' He run to de house and told his Master dat he found a terrapin
dat could talk. Dey went back and he asked de terrapin what bring him here and it wouldn't
say a word. Old Master didn't like it 'cause he went down there jest to see a common ordinary
terrapin and he told de nigger he was going to git into trouble fer telling him a lie. Next
day the nigger seen de terrapin and it say de same thing again. Soon after dat dis nigger was
lynched right close to de place he saw de terrapin."

Master John Booker had two niggers what had a habit of slipping across de river and killing
old Master's hogs and hiding de meat in de loft of de house. Master had a big blue hog and
one day he missed him and he sent Ned to look fer him. Ned knowed all de time dat he had killed
it and had it hid in his loft. He hunted and called "Pig-ooie, Pig." Somebody done stole old
Master's big blue hog. Dey couldn't find it but old Master thought Ned knowed something 'bout
it. One night he found out Ned was gonna kill another hog and had asked John to go with him.
He borrowed John's clothes and blacked his face and met Ned at de river. Soon dey find a nice
big one and Ned say, "John, I'll drive him round and you kill him." So he drove him past old
Master but he didn't want to kill his own hog so he made lak he'd like to kill him but he missed
him. Finally Ned got tired and said. "I'll kill him, you drive him by me." So Master John drove
him by him and Ned knock de hog on de head and cut his throat and dey load him on de canoe.
When dey was nearly 'cross de river Old Master dip up some water and wash his face a little,
then he look at Ned and he say, "Ned you look sick, I believe you've got lepersy." Ned row
on little more and he jump in de river and Master had a hard time finding him again. He had
the overseer whip Ned for that.

I think Lincoln was a wonderful man. Everybody was sorry when he died, but I never heerd of
Jeff Davis.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves

10-19-38 1,876-words

DELLA FOUNTAIN Age 69 years McAlester, Oklahoma

I was born after de War of de Rebellion but I 'member lots o' things dat my parents told me
'bout slavery.

My grandmother was captured in Africa. Traders come dere in a big boat and dey had all sorts
of purty gew-gaws--red handkerchiefs, dress goods, beads, bells, and trinkets in bright colors.
Dey would pull up at de shore and entice de colored folks onto de boat to see de purty things.
Befo' de darkies realized it dey would be out from shore. Dat's de way she was captured. Fifteen
to twenty-five would pay dem for de trip as dey all brought good prices.

I was born and raised in Louisiana, near Winfield. My mother's Master was John Rogers and his
wife was Miss Millie. Dey was awful good to deir slaves and he never whupped his grown niggers.

I 'member when I was a child dat we didn't have hardly anything to keep house wid, but we got
along purty well I guess. Our furniture was home-made and we cooked on de fireplace.

We saved all our oak-wood ashes, and would put a barrel on a slanting scaffold and put sticks
and shucks in de bottom of de barrel and den fill it wid de ashes. We'd pour water in it and
let it drip. Dese drippings made pure lye. We used dis wid cracklings and meat scraps to make
our soap.

Father took a good-sized pine long and split it open, planed it down smooth and bored holes
in de bottom and drove pegs in dem for legs; dis was our battling bench. We'd spread our wet
clothes on dis and rub soap on 'em and take a paddle and beat de dirt out. We got 'em clean
but had to be careful not to wear 'em out wid de paddle.

We had no tubs either, so father took a hollow log and split it open and put partitions in
it. He bored a hole in each section and drove a peg in it. He next cut two forked poles and
drove 'em in de ground and rested de ends of de hollow log in dese forks. We'd fill de log
trough wid water and rinse our clothes. We could pull out de pegs and let de water out. We
had no brooms either, so we made brush brooms to sweep our floors.

Dere was lots of wild game near our home. I 'member father and two more men going out and killing
six deer in jest a little while. Dey was plentiful, and so was squirrels, coon, possums and
quail. Dere was lots of bears, too. We'd be in de field working and hear de dogs, and father
and de boys would go to 'em and maybe dey'd have a bear. We liked bear meat. It was dark, but
awful good and sweet.

De grown folks used to have big times at log-rollings, corn-shuckings and quiltings. Dey'd
have a big supper and a big dance at night. Us children would play ring plays, play with home-made
rag dolls, or we'd take big leaves and pin 'em together wid thorns and make hats and dresses.
We'd ride saplings, too. All of us would pull a sapling down and one would climb up in it near
de top and git a good hold on it, and dey would turn it loose. It took a purty good holding
to stay wid it, I can tell you.

All de ladies rode horseback, and dey rode side-saddles. I had a purty side-saddle when I growed
up. De saddle seat was flowered plush. I had a purty riding habit, too. De skirt was so long
dat it almost touched de ground.

We spun and wove all our clothes. I had to spin three broaches ever night before bedtime. Mother
would take bark and make dye to give us different colored dresses.

Red oak and sweet gum made purple. Bois d'arc made yellow or orange. Walnut made a purty brown.
We knitted our socks and stockings, too.

We celebrated Christmas by having a big dance and egg-nog for ever' body.

During slavery young colored boys and girls didn't do much work but just growed up, care-free
and happy. De first work boys done was to learn to hitch up de team to Master's carriage and
take de young folks for a drive.

My older brothers and sisters told me lots of things dey done during slave days. My brother
Joe felt mighty big after freedom and strutted about. One day he took his younger brother,
Ol wid him to where father was building a house. Dey played 'bout de house and come up to where
a white man and father was talking. De white man was rolling a little ball of mud in his hands
and he just pitched it over on Ol's foot. It didn't hurt him a mite, but Joe bridled up and
he started to git smart, and father told him he'd break his neck if he didn't go on home and
keep his mouth shet. Father finally had to whup Joe to make him know he was black. He give
father and mother lots of concern, for dey was afraid the Ku Kluxers would git him. One day
he was playing wid a axe and chopped off brother Ol's finger. Mother told him she was going
to kill him when she caught him. He took to de woods. His three sisters and two neighbor girls
run him nearly all day but couldn't catch him. Late in de evening, he come up to a white neighbor's
house and she told him to go in and git under de bed and dey couldn't find him. Curtains come
down to de floor and as he was tired he decided to risk it. He hadn't much more dan got hid
when he heard de girls coming. He heard de woman say, "He's under de bed." He knowed he was
caught, and he put up a fight, but dey took him to mother. He got a whupping, but he was shocked
dat mother didn't kill him like she said she was. He didn't mind de whupping. He growed up
to be a good man, and was de apple of my mother's eye.

Father knowed a man that stole his Master's horse out and rode him to a dance. For some reason
de horse died. De poor man knowed he was up against it, and he let in to begging de men to
help him git de horse on his back so he could put him back in his stable and his Master would
think he died dere. Poor fellow, he really did think he could tote dat horse on his back. He
couldn't git anybody to help him, so he went to the woods. He was shot by a patroller 'cause
he wouldn't surrender. Dey captured him but he died.

Paul Castleberry was a white preacher. De colored would go to church de same as de whites.
He give de colored instructions on obeying Masters. He say, "while your Master is going f'om
pillar to post, looking after your intrusts, you is always doing some devilment." I 'spect
dat was jest about de truth.

My sister played wid Miss Millie's little girl, Mollie. De big house was on a high hill and
at de foot of de hill. Nearly a half-mile away was a big creek wid a big wooden bridge across
it. Soldiers come by ever' few days, and you could hear deir horses when dey struck de bridge.
Sister and Mollie would run upstairs and look down de hill, and if it was Confederate soldiers
dey would run back and tell Miss Millie and dey would start putting out de best food dey had.
If dey saw Yankee soldiers, dey would run down and tell 'em and dey'd start hiding things.

De Yankees come through dere and took ever' body's horses. Lots of people took deir horses
and cows and hid 'em in some low place in de deep wood.

Miss Millie had a young horse and she had 'em take him to de wheat field and hide him. De wheat
was as high as he was. De Yankees come by, and a man had stopped dere just before dey come.
He was riding an old horse, and he was wearing a long linen-duster--a duster was a long coat
dat was worn over de suit to protect it from de dust.

Dis smart-aleck hid behind de house and as de soldiers rode up he shot at 'em. Dey started
shooting at him and he started running, and his coat was sticking straight out behind him.
De soldiers surely wasn't trying to hit him, but dey sure did scare him plenty. Miss Millie
was certain dey was going to find her horse but dey didn't.

Master John Rogers was good to all his slaves, and they all loved him and would a'died for
him. One day he was sitting in his yard and Mollie come running down stairs and told him de
Yankees was coming. He never say nothing, but kept sitting dere. Dat morning he had a big sack
of money and he give it to my mother to hide for him. She ripped her mattress, and put it in
de middle of it and sewed it up. She den made up de bed and put de covers on it. De Yankees
searched de house and took de jewelry and silverware and old Master's gold mug, but dey didn't
find his money.

My parents lived close to de old plantation dat they lived on when dey was slaves. De big house
was still dere, but it was sure dilapidated. Ever'body was poor after de War, whites and blacks
alike. I really think de colored was de best off, for they knowed all 'bout hardships and hard
work and de white folks didn't.

At first some of 'em was too proud to do drudgery work, but most of 'em went right to work
and build up deir homes again. Food, clothes, and in fact everything needed, was scarce.

Mother always say, "If you visit on New Years, you'll visit all de year." We always had black-eyed
peas and hog jowl for New Year's dinner, for it brought good luck.

The Nineteenth of June was Emancipation Day, and we always had a big picnic and speeches.

I knowed one woman who was a conjur woman. Lots of people went to her to git her to break a
evil spell dat some one had over them. She'd brew a tea from herbs and give to 'em to drink,
and it always cured 'em.

I've seen people use all kinds o' roots and herbs for medicine, and I also seen 'em use all
kind of things for cures. I've knowed 'em to put wood lice in a bag and tie 'em 'round a baby's
neck so it'd teeth easy.

Black-haw root, sour dock, bear grass, grape root, bull nettle, sweet-gum bark and red-oak
bark boiled separately and mixed, makes a good blood medicine.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves

NANCY GARDNER Age 79 yrs. Oklahoma City, Oklahoma

Well, to tell you de truth I don't know my age, but I was born in 1858, in Franklin, Tennessee.
Now, you can figger for yourself and tell how old I is. I is de daughter of Prophet and Callie
Isaiah, and dey was natives of Tennessee. Dere was three of us children, two boys and myself.
I'm de only girl. My brothers names was Prophet and Billie Isaiah. I don't 'member much about
dem as we was separated when I was seven years old. I'll never forget when me, my ma and my
auntie had to leave my pa and brothers. It is jest as clear in my mind now as it was den, and
dat's been about seventy years ago.

Oh God! I tell you it was awful dat day when old Jeff Davis had a bunch of us sent to Memphis
to be sold. I can see old Major Clifton now. He was a big nigger trader you know. Well, dey
took us on up dere to Memphis and we was sold jest like cattle. Dey sold me and ma together
and dey sold pa and de boys together. Dey was sent to Mississippi and we was sent to Alabama.
My pa, O how my ma was grieved to death about him! She didn't live long after dat. She didn't
live long enough to be set free. Poor ma, she died a slave, but she is saved though. I know
she is, and I'll be wid her some day.

It was thirty years before my pa knew if we was still living. Finally in some way he heard
dat I was still alive, and he began writing me. Course I was grown and married den and me and
my husband had moved to Missouri. Well, my pa started out to see me and on his way he was drowned
in de Missouri River, and I never saw him alive after we was sold in Memphis.

I can't tell you much 'bout work during de slave days 'cause you see I was jest a baby you
might say when de War broke out. I do remember our Master's name though, it was Dr. Perkins,
and he was a good Master. Ma and pa sure hated to have to leave him, he was so good to dem.
He was a rich man, and had a big fine house and thousands of acres of land. He was good to
his niggers too. We had a good house too, better dan some of dese houses I see folks living
in now. Course Dr. Perkins niggers had to work, but dey didn't mind 'cause he would let dem
have little patches of dey own such as 'tatoes, corn, cotton and garden. Jest a little, you
know. He couldn't let dem have much, there was so many on Dr. Perkins plantation.

I don't remember seeing anybody sick in slavery time. You see I was jest a kid and dere's a
lot of things I can't remember.

I am a Christian. I jined de church nigh on seventy years ago and when I say dat, I don't mean
I jest jined de church. I mean I gave myself up to de Heavenly Father, and I've been gwine
straight down de line for Him ever since. You know in dem days, we didn't get religion like
young folks do now. Young folks today jest find de church and den call theyselves Christians,
but they aint.

I remember jest as well when I was converted. One day I was thinking 'bout a sermon de preacher
had preached and a voice spoke to me and said, "De Holy Ghost is over your head. Accept it!"
Right den I got down on my knees and prayed to God dat I might understand dat voice, and God
Almighty in a vision told me dat I should find de church. I could hardly wait for de next service
so I could find it, and when I was in de water getting my baptisement, dat same voice spoke
and said, "Now you have accepted don't turn back 'cause I will be wid you always!" O you don't
know nothing 'bout dat kind of religion!

I 'member one night shortly after I jined de church I was laying in bed and dere was a vine
tied 'round my waist and dat vine extended into de elements. O my God! I can see it now! I
looked up dat vine and away in de elements I could see my Divine Master and he spoke to me
and said, "When you get in trouble shake dis vine; I'm your Master and I will hear your cry."

I knowed old Jeff Davis good. Why I was jest as close to him as I am to dat table. I've talked
wid him too. I reckon I do know dat scoundrel! Why, he didn't want de niggers to be free! He
was known as a mean old rascal all over de South.

Abraham Lincoln? Now you is talking 'bout de niggers friend! Why dat was de best man God ever
let tramp de earth! Everybody was mighty sad when poor old Abraham was 'sassinated, 'cause
he did a mighty good deed for de colored race before he left dis world.

I wasn't here long during slavery, but I saw enough of it to know it was mighty hard going
for most of de niggers den, and young folks wouldn't stand for dat kind of treatment now. I
know most of the young folks would be killed, but they jest wouldn't stand for it. I would
hate to have to go through wid my little share of it again.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves

OCTAVIA GEORGE Age 85 yrs. Oklahoma City, Okla.

I was born in Mansieur, Louisiana, 1852, Avoir Parish. I am the daughter of Alfred and Clementine
Joseph. I don't know much about my grandparents other than my mother told me my grandfather's
name was Fransuai, and was one time a king in Africa.

Most of the slaves lived in log cabins, and the beds were home-made. The mattresses were made
out of moss gathered from trees, and we used to have lots of fun gathering that moss to make
those mattresses.

My job was taking care of the white children up at the Big House (that is what they called
the house where our master lived), and I also had to feed the little Negro children. I remember
quite well how those poor little children used to have to eat. They were fed in boxes and troughs,
under the house. They were fed corn meal mush and beans. When this was poured into their box
they would gather around it the same as we see pigs, horses and cattle gather around troughs today.

We were never given any money, but were able to get a little money this way: our Master would
let us have two or three acres of land each year to plant for ourselves, and we could have
what we raised on it. We could not allow our work on these two or three acres to interfere
with Master's work, but we had to work our little crops on Sundays. Now remind you, all the
Negroes didn't get these two or three acres, only good masters allowed their slaves to have
a little crop of their own. We would take the money from our little crops and buy a few clothes
and something for Christmas. The men would save enough money out of the crops to buy their
Christmas whiskey. It was all right for the slaves to get drunk on Christmas and New Years
Day; no one was whipped for getting drunk on those days. We were allowed to have a garden and
from this we gathered vegetables to eat; on Sundays we could have duck, fish, and pork.

We didn't know anything about any clothes other than cotton; everything we wore was made of
cotton, except our shoes, they were made from pieces of leather cut out of a raw cowhide.

Our Master and Mistress was good, they let us go to church with them, have our little two-
or three-acre crops and any other thing that the good masters would let their slaves do. They
lived in a big fine house and had a fine barn. Their barn was much better than the house we
lived in. Master Depriest (our master) was a Frenchman, and had eight or nine children, and
they were sure mean. They would fight us, but we were not allowed to fight our little Master
or Mistress as we had to call them.

The overseer on Master's plantation was a mean old fellow, he carried his gun all the time
and would ride a big fine horse and go from one bunch of slaves to the other. Some poor white
folks lived close to us. They could not own slaves and they had to work for the rich plantation
owners. I believe that those poor white folk are to blame for the Negroes stealing because
they would get the Negroes to steal their master's corn, hogs, chickens and many other things
and sell it to them for practically nothing.

We had to work plenty hard, because our Master had a large plantation. Don't know just how
many acres it was, but we had to be up at 5 o'clock in the morning and would work until dark
than we would have to go home and do our night work, that is cook, milk, and feed the stock.

The slaves were punished for stealing, running off, not doing what their master told them and
for talking back to their master. If any of these rules were disobeyed their feet and hands
were chained together and they were put across a log or a barrel and whipped until the blood
came from them.

There were no jails; the white man was the slaves' jail. If whipping didn't settle the crime
the Negro committed--the next thing would be to hang him or burn him at stake.

I've seen them sell slaves. The whites would auction them off just as we do cattle and horses
today. The big fine healthy slaves were worth more than those that were not quite so good.
I have seen men sold from their wives and I thought that was such a crime. I knew that God
would settle thing someday.

Slaves would run away but most of the time they were caught. The Master would put blood hounds
on their trail, and sometimes the slave would kill the blood hound and make his escape. If
a slave once tried to run away and was caught, he would be whipped almost to death, and from
then on if he was sent any place they would chain their meanest blood hound to him.

Funerals were very simple for slaves, they could not carry the body to the church they would
just take it to the grave yard and bury it. They were not even allowed to sing a song at the
cemetery. Old Mistress used to tell us ghost stories after funerals and they would nearly scare
me to death. She would tell of seeing men with no head, and see cattle that would suddenly
turn to cats, and she made us believe if a fire was close to a cemetery it was coming from a ghost.

I used to hear quite a bit about voodoo, but that some thing I never believed in, therefore,
I didn't pay any attention to it.

When a slave was sick, the master would get a good doctor for him if he was a good slave, but
if he wasn't considered a good slave he would be given cheap medical care. Some of the doctors
would not go to the cabin where the slaves were, and the slave would have to be carried on
his bed to his master's back porch and the doctor would see him there.

When the news came that we were free, all of us were hid on the Mississippi River. We had been
there for several days, and we had to catch fish with our hands and roast them for food. I
remember quite well when old Master came down to there and hollered, Come on out niggers; you
are free now and you can do as you please! We all went to the Big House and there we found
old Miss crying and talking about how she hated to lose her good niggers.

Abraham Lincoln! Why we mourned three months for that man when he died! I wouldn't miss a morning
getting my black arm band and placing it on in remembrance of Abraham, who was the best friend
the Negroes ever had. Now old Jeff Davis, I didn't care a thing about him. He was a Democrat
and none of them mean anything to the Negro. And if these young Negroes don't quit messing
with the democratic bunch they are going to be right back where we started from. If they only
knew as I know they would struggle to keep such from happening, because although I had a good
master I wouldn't want to go through it again.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves

MARY GRAYSON Age 83 yrs. Tulsa, Oklahoma

I am what we colored people call a "native." That means that I didn't come into the Indian
country from somewhere in the Old South, after the War, like so many negroes did, but I was
born here in the old Creek Nation, and my master was a Creek Indian. That was eighty three
years ago, so I am told.

My mammy belonged to white people back in Alabama when she was born--down in the southern part
I think, for she told me that after she was a sizeable girl her white people moved into the
eastern part of Alabama where there was a lot of Creeks. Some of them Creeks was mixed up with
the whites, and some of the big men in the Creeks who come to talk to her master was almost
white, it looked like. "My white folks moved around a lot when I was a little girl", she told me.

When mammy was about 10 or 13 years old some of the Creeks begun to come out to the Territory
in little bunches. They wasn't the ones who was taken out here by the soldiers and contractor
men--they come on ahead by themselves and most of them had plenty of money, too. A Creek come
to my mammy's master and bought her to bring out here, but she heard she was being sold and
run off into the woods. There was an old clay pit, dug way back into a high bank, where the
slaves had been getting clay to mix with hog hair scrapings to make chinking for the big log
houses that they built for the master and the cabins they made for themselves. Well, my mammy
run and hid way back in that old clay pit, and it was way after dark before the master and
the other man found her.

The Creek man that bought her was a kind sort of a man, mammy said, and wouldn't let the master
punish her. He took her away and was kind to her, but he decided she was too young to breed
and he sold her to another Creek who had several slaves already, and he brought her out to
the Territory.

The McIntosh men was the leaders in the bunch that come out at that time, and one of the bunch,
named Jim Perryman, bought my mammy and married her to one of his "boys", but after he waited
a while and she didn't have a baby he decided she was no good breeder and he sold her to Mose
Perryman.

Mose Perryman was my master, and he was a cousin to Legus Perryman, who was a big man in the
Tribe. He was a lot younger than Mose, and laughed at Mose for buying my mammy, but he got
fooled, because my mammy got married to Mose's slave boy Jacob, the way the slaves was married
them days, and went ahead and had ten children for Mr. Mose.

Mose Perryman owned my pappy and his older brother, Hector, and one of the McIntosh men, Oona,
I think his name was, owned my pappy's brother William. I can remember when I first heard about
there was going to be a war. The older children would talk about it, but they didn't say it
was a war all over the country. They would talk about a war going to be "back in Alabama",
and I guess they had heard the Creeks talking about it that way.

When I was born we lived in the Choska bottoms, and Mr. Mose Perryman had a lot of land broke
in all up and down the Arkansas river along there. After the War, when I had got to be a young
woman, there was quite a settlement grew up at Choska (pronounced Choe-skey) right across the
river east of where Haskell now is, but when I was a child before the War all the whole bottoms
was marshy kind of wilderness except where farms had been cleared out. The land was very rich,
and the Creeks who got to settle there were lucky. They always had big crops. All west of us
was high ground, toward Gibson station and Fort Gibson, and the land was sandy. Some of the
McIntoshes lived over that way, and my Uncle William belonged to one of them.

We slaves didn't have a hard time at all before the War. I have had people who were slaves
of white folks back in the old states tell me that they had to work awfully hard and their
masters were cruel to them sometimes, but all the Negroes I knew who belonged to Creeks always
had plenty of clothes and lots to eat and we all lived in good log cabins we built. We worked
the farm and tended to the horses and cattle and hogs, and some of the older women worked around
the owner's house, but each Negro family looked after a part of the fields and worked the crops
like they belonged to us.

When I first heard talk about the War the slaves were allowed to go and see one another sometimes
and often they were sent on errands several miles with a wagon or on a horse, but pretty soon
we were all kept at home, and nobody was allowed to come around and talk to us. But we heard
what was going on.

The McIntosh men got nearly everybody to side with them about the War, but we Negroes got word
somehow that the Cherokees over back of Ft. Gibson was not going to be in the War, and that
there were some Union people over there who would help slaves to get away, but we children
didn't know anything about what we heard our parents whispering about, and they would stop
if they heard us listening. Most of the Creeks who lived in our part of the country, between
the Arkansas and the Verdigris, and some even south of the Arkansas, belonged to the Lower
Creeks and sided with the South, but down below us along the Canadian River they were Upper
Creeks and there was a good deal of talk about them going with the North. Some of the Negroes
tried to get away and go down to them, but I don't know of any from our neighborhood that went
to them.

Some Upper Creeks came up into the Choska bottoms talking around among the folks there about
siding with the North. They were talking, they said, for old man Gouge, who was a big man among
the Upper Creeks. His Indian name was Opoeth-le-ya-hola, and he got away into Kansas with a
big bunch of Creeks and Seminoles during the War.

Before that time, I remember one night my uncle William brought another Negro man to our cabin
and talked a long time with my pappy, but pretty soon some of the Perryman Negroes told them
that Mr. Mose was coming down and they went off into the woods to talk. But Mr. Mose didn't
come down. When pappy came back Mammy cried quite a while, and we children could hear them
arguing late at night. Then my uncle Hector slipped over to our cabin several times and talked
to pappy, and mammy began to fix up grub, but she didn't give us children but a little bit
of it, and told us to stay around with her at the cabin and not go playing with the other children.

Then early one morning, about daylight, old Mr. Mose came down to the cabin in his buggy, waving
a shot gun and hollering at the top of his voice. I never saw a man so mad in all my life,
before nor since!

He yelled in at mammy to "git them children together and git up to my house before I beat you
and all of them to death!" Mammy began to cry and plead that she didn't know anything, but
he acted like he was going to shoot sure enough, so we all ran to mammy and started for Mr.
Mose's house as fast as we could trot.

We had to pass all the other Negro cabins on the way, and we could see that they were all empty,
and it looked like everything in them had been tore up. Straw and corn shucks all over the
place, where somebody had tore up the mattresses, and all the pans and kettles gone off the
outside walls where they used to hang them.

At one place we saw two Negro boys loading some iron kettles on a wagon, and a little further
on was some boys catching chickens in a yard, but we could see all the Negroes had left in
a big hurry.

I asked mammy where everybody had gone and she said, "Up to Mr. Mose's house, where we are
going. He's calling us all in."

"Will pappy be up there too?" I asked her.

"No. Your pappy and your Uncle Hector and your Uncle William and a lot of other menfolks won't
be here any more. They went away. That's why Mr. Mose is so mad, so if any of you younguns
say anything about any strange men coming to our place I'll break your necks!" Mammy was sure
scared!

We all thought sure she was going to get a big whipping, but Mr. Mose just looked at her a
minute and then told her to get back to the cabin and bring all the clothes, and bed ticks
and all kinds of cloth we had and come back ready to travel.

"We're going to take all you black devils to a place where there won't no more of you run away!"
he yelled after us. So we got ready to leave as quick as we could. I kept crying about my pappy,
but mammy would say, "Don't you worry about your pappy, he's free now. Better be worrying about
us. No telling where we all will end up!" There was four or five Creek families and their Negroes
all got together to leave, with all their stuff packed in buggies and wagons, and being toted
by the Negroes or carried tied on horses, jack asses, mules and milk cattle. I reckon it was
a funny looking sight, or it would be to a person now; the way we was all loaded down with
all manner of baggage when we met at the old ford across the Arkansas that lead to the Creek
Agency. The Agency stood on a high hill a few miles across the river from where we lived, but
we couldn't see it from our place down in the Choska bottoms. But as soon as we got up on the
upland east of the bottoms we could look across and see the hill.

When we got to a grove at the foot of the hill near the agency Mr. Mose and the other masters
went up to the Agency for a while. I suppose they found out up there what everybody was supposed
to do and where they was supposed to go, for when we started on it wasn't long until several
more families and their slaves had joined the party and we made quite a big crowd.

The little Negro boys had to carry a little bundle apiece, but Mr. Mose didn't make the little
girls carry anything and let us ride if we could find anything to ride on. My mammy had to
help lead the cows part of the time, but a lot of the time she got to ride an old horse, and
she would put me up behind her. It nearly scared me to death, because I had never been on a
horse before, and she had to hold on to me all the time to keep me from falling off.

Of course I was too small to know what was going on then, but I could tell that all the masters
and the Negroes seemed to be mighty worried and careful all the time. Of course I know now
that the Creeks were all split up over the War, and nobody was able to tell who would be friendly
to us or who would try to poison us or kill us, or at least rob us. There was a lot of bushwhacking
all through that country by little groups of men who was just out to get all they could. They
would appear like they was the enemy of anybody they run across, just to have an excuse to
rob them or burn up their stuff. If you said you was with the South they would be with the
North and if you claimed to be with the Yankees they would be with the South, so our party
was kind of upset all the time we was passing through the country along the Canadian. That
was where old Gouge had been talking against the South. I've heard my folks say that he was
a wonderful speaker, too.

We all had to move along mighty slow, on account of the ones on foot, and we wouldn't get very
far in one day, then we Negroes had to fix up a place to camp and get wood and cook supper
for everybody. Sometimes we would come to a place to camp that somebody knew about and we would
find it all tromped down by horses and the spring all filled in and ruined. I reckon old Gouge's
people would tear up things when they left, or maybe some Southern bushwhackers would do it.
I don't know which.

When we got down to where the North Fork runs into the Canadian we went around the place where
the Creek town was. There was lots of Creeks down there who was on the other side, so we passed
around that place and forded across west of there. The ford was a bad one, and it took us a
long time to get across. Everybody got wet and a lot of the stuff on the wagons got wet. Pretty
soon we got down into the Chickasaw country, and everybody was friendly to us, but the Chickasaw
people didn't treat their slaves like the Creeks did. They was more strict, like the people
in Texas and other places. The Chickasaws seemed lighter color than the Creeks but they talked
more in Indian among themselves and to their slaves. Our masters talked English nearly all
the time except when they were talking to Creeks who didn't talk good English, and we Negroes
never did learn very good Creek. I could always understand it, and can yet, a little, but I
never did try to talk it much. Mammy and pappy used English to us all the time.

Mr. Mose found a place for us to stop close to Fort Washita, and got us places to stay and
work. I don't know which direction we were from Fort Washita, but I know we were not very far.
I don't know how many years we were down in there, but I know it was over two for we worked
on crops at two different places, I remember. Then one day Mr. Mose came and told us that the
War was over and that we would have to root for ourselves after that. Then he just rode away
and I never saw him after that until after we had got back up into the Choska country. Mammy
heard that the Negroes were going to get equal rights with the Creeks, and that she should
go to the Creek Agency to draw for us, so we set out to try to get back.

We started out on foot, and would go a little ways each day, and mammy would try to get a little
something to do to get us some food. Two or three times she got paid in money, so she had some
money when we got back. After three or four days of walking we came across some more Negroes
who had a horse, and mammy paid them to let us children ride and tie with their children for
a day or two. They had their children on the horse, so two or three little ones would get on
with a larger one to guide the horse and we would ride a while and get off and tie the horse
and start walking on down the road. Then when the others caught up with the horse they would
ride until they caught up with us. Pretty soon the old people got afraid to have us do that,
so we just led the horse and some of the little ones rode it.

We had our hardest times when we would get to a river or big creek. If the water was swift
the horse didn't do any good, for it would shy at the water and the little ones couldn't stay
on, so we would have to just wait until someone came along in a wagon and maybe have to pay
them with some of our money or some of our goods we were bringing back to haul us across. Sometimes
we had to wait all day before anyone would come along in a wagon.

We were coming north all this time, up through the Seminole Nation, but when we got to Weeleetka
we met a Creek family of freedmen who were going to the Agency too, and mammy paid them to
take us along in their wagon. When we got to the Agency mammy met a Negro who had seen pappy
and knew where he was, so we sent word to him and he came and found us. He had been through
most of the War in the Union army.

When we got away into the Cherokee country some of them called the "Pins" helped to smuggle
him on up into Missouri and over into Kansas, but he soon found that he couldn't get along
and stay safe unless he went with the Army. He went with them until the War was over, and was
around Gibson quite a lot. When he was there he tried to find out where we had gone but said
he never could find out. He was in the battle of Honey Springs, he said, but never was hurt
or sick. When we got back together we cleared a selection of land a little east of the Choska
bottoms, near where Clarksville now is, and farmed until I was a great big girl.

I went to school at a little school called Blackjack school. I think it was a kind of mission
school and not one of the Creek nation schools, because my first teacher was Miss Betty Weaver
and she was not a Creek but a Cherokee. Then we had two white teachers, Miss King and John
Kernan, and another Cherokee was in charge. His name was Ross, and he was killed one day when
his horse fell off a bridge across the Verdigris, on the way from Tullahassee to Gibson Station.

When I got to be a young woman I went to Okmulgee and worked for some people near there for
several years, then I married Tate Grayson. We got our freedmen's allotments on Mingo Creek,
east of Tulsa, and lived there until our children were grown and Tate died, then I came to
live with my daughter in Tulsa.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves

ROBERT R. GRINSTEAD Age 80 yrs. Oklahoma City, Okla.

I was born in Lawrence County, Mississippi, February 17, 1857. My father's name is Elias Grinstead,
a German, and my mother's name is Ann Greenstead after that of her master. I am a son by my
mother and her Master. I have four other half brothers William (Bill) oldest, Albert, Silas,
and John.

I was only eight years of age at freedom and for that reason I was too young to work and on
account of being the son of my Master's I received no hard treatment and did little or no work.
Yet, I wore the same clothing as did the rest of the slaves: a shirt of lowell for summer and
shirt and trousers for winter and no shoes. I could walk through a briar patch in my bare feet
without sticking one in the bottom of my feet as they were so hard and resistant.

I was the only child of my Master as he had no wife. When the War broke out he went to the
War and left the plantation in charge of his overseer and his two sisters. As the overseers
were hard for them to get along with they were oftener without an overseer as with one, and
therefore they used one of the Negroes as overseer for the most of the time.

Across the river was another large plantation and slave owner by the name of Master Wilson.
We called him Master too, for he was a close friend and neighbor to our Mistresses. There was
one Negro man slave who decided to not work after Master went to the War and the white overseer
was fired and the Negro overseer was acting as overseer, so my Mistress gave him a note to
take across the river to Master Wilson. The note was an order to whip this Negro and as he
couldn't read he didn't know what the note contained until after Master Wilson read it and
gave orders to his men to tie him for his whipping. After this, the whipping was so severe
that they never had any more trouble in making this Negro slave work and they never had to
send him back again to Master Wilson to be whipped. The fun part of this above incidence was
the Negro carried his own note and went alone to be whipped and didn't know it 'til the lashes
was being put on him.

My Master's plantation was about 2 miles long and 1-1/2 mile wide and he owned between 30 or
40 slaves. The Negro overseer would wake up the slaves and have them in the field before they
could see how to work each morning and as they would go to work so soon their breakfast was
carried to the field to them. One morning the breakfast was taken to the field and the slaves
were hoeing cotton and among them was a lad about 15 years of age who could not hoe as fast
as the older slaves and the breakfast was sat at the end of the rows and as they would hoe
out to the end they would eat, and if you would be late hoeing to the end the first to go to
the end would began eating and eat everything. So, this 15 year old lad in order to get out
to eat before everything was gone did not hoe his row good and the overseer, who was white
at this time, whipped him so severely that he could not eat nor work, that day.

The Negroes went to church with the white people and joined their church. The church was Baptist
in denomination, and they built a pen in the church in which the Negroes sat, and when they
would take sacrament the Negroes would be served after the whites were through and one of the
Negro group would pass it around to the others within the pen.

As there were no dances held on the plantation the Negroes would oftimes slip off and go at
nights to a nearby dance or peanut parching or rice suppers at nights after work. Some of the
slaves would be allowed to make for themselves rice patches which they would gather and save
for the dances. To prepare this rice for cooking after harvested they would burn a trough into
a log, they called mortar and with a large wooden mallet they called pessel, and which they
would pound upon the rice until hulled and ready for cooking. This rice would be boiled with
just salt and water and eaten as a great feast with delight.

During slavery some of the Negro slaves would kill snakes and skin them and wear these snake
skins to prevent being voodooed they said. When some of the slaves would take sick and the
home remedies would fail to cure them our Mistress would allow one of the Negro men slaves
to go to the white doctor and get some medicine for the patient. The doctor would ask questions
as to the actions of the patient and from said description would send medicine without ever
going to see the patient and his medicine would always cure the patient of his disease if consulted
in time.

After the news came that brought our freedom a white union officer with 20 trained Negro soldiers
visited the plantations and saw that the Negroes received their freedom. He would put on a
demonstration with his Negro soldiers by having them line up and then at a command they would
all rush forward and stand their guns up together on the stock end without a one falling and
get back into line and upon another command they would rush forward and each get his gun again
without allowing one to fall and again reline up.

When I was large enough to pay attention to my color and to that of the other slaves I wondered
to myself why I was not black like the rest of the slaves and concluded to myself that I would
when I got grown like they were as I knew not then that I was the son of my Master.

During the War and as the men and our Master all went to the War the Negroes or a Negro would
have to go to the Mistress' homes each morning and start fires and never, did I ever hear of
a rape case under such close conditions as Negroes going into the bed rooms each morning of
the white mistress to start fires.

My first wife was name Tracy Smith. As I had been free for over 12 years. We had ordinary marriage
ceremony. I have 11 grown children, 15 or 20 grandchildren and 3 great grandchildren.

I think Abraham Lincoln was a fine old gentlemen and as to Jeff Davis I don't think he was
what he should have been, and as to Booker T. Washington I think his idea of educating or training
Negroes as servants to serve the white race appealed more to the white race than the Negroes.

My viewpoint as to slavery is that it was as much detrimental to the white race as it was to
the Negroes, as one elevated ones minds too highly, and the other degraded ones mind too lowly.
Oklahoma City, Okla.

I was born January 2, 1859, at Gunalis, Texas. My father's name was William Tensley and my
mother's name Mildred Howard. They was brought from Virginia. I did have 8 brothers and sisters
but all of them are dead.

My Master was name William Henry Howard. Since I was too young to work I nursed my sisters'
children while they worked. The cooking was done all up to the general kitchen at Masters house
and when slaves come from work they would send their children up to the kitchen to bring their
meals to their homes in the quarters. Our Mistress would have one of the cooks to dish up vegetables
and she herself would slice or serve the meat to see that it wasn't wasted, as seemingly it
was thought so precious.

As my mother worked 'round the Big House quite a deal I would go up to the Big House with her
and play with the white children who seemed to like for me to come to play with them. One day
in anger while playing I called one of the white girls, "old black dog" and they pretended
they would tell their mother (my Mistress) about it. I was scared, as they saw, and they promised
me they would not tell if I'd promise to not do it again, and which I was so glad to do and
be let off so lightly.

For summer I wore a cotton slip and for winter my mother knitted at nights after her days work
was done so I wore red flannels for underwear and thick linsey for an over-dress, and had knitted
stockings and bought shoes. As my Master was a doctor he made his slaves wear suitable clothes
in accordance to the weather. We also wore gloves my mother knitted in winter.

My Mistress was good to all of the slaves. On Sunday morning she would make all the Negro children
come to the Big House and she would stand on the front steps and read the Catechism to us who
sat or stood in front on the ground.

My Master was also good. On Wednesdays and Friday nights he would make the slaves come up to
the Big House and he would read the Bible to them and he would pray. He was a doctor and very
fractious and exact. He didn't allow the slaves to claim they forgot to do thus and so nor
did he allow them to make the expression, "I thought so and so." He would say to them if they
did: "Who told you, you could think!"

They had 10 children, 7 boys and 3 girls. Their house was a large 2-story log house painted
white. My father was overseer on the plantation.

The plantation consisted of 400 acres and about 40 slaves including children. The slaves were
so seldom punished until they never'd worry about being punished. They treated their slaves
as though they loved them. The poor white neighbors were also good and treated the slaves good,
for my Master would warn them to not bother his Negroes. My Mistress always told the slaves
she wanted all of them to visit her and come to her funeral and burial when she died and named
the men slaves she wanted to be her pallbearers, all of which was carried out as she planned
even though it was after freedom.

The slaves even who lived adjoining our plantation would have church at our Big House. They
would hold church on Sundays and Sunday nights.

As my mother worked a deal for her Mistress she had an inkling or overheard that they was going
to be set free long before the day they were. She called all the slaves on the plantation together
and broke to them this news after they had promised her they would not spread the news so that
it would get back to our Master. So, everybody kept the news until Saturday night June 19th,
when Master called all the slaves to the big gate and told them they were all free, but could
stay right on in their homes if they had no places to go and which all of them did. They went
right out and gathered the crop just like they'd always done, and some of them remained there
several years.

My first husband was name, S. W. Warnley. We had 4 children, 1 girl and three boys and 3 grandchildren.
I now have two grandchildren.

Now that slavery is over I sometime wish 'twas still existing for some of our lazy folks, so
that so many of them wouldn't or couldn't loaf around so much lowering our race, walking the
streets day by day and running from house to house living corruptible lives which is keeping
the race down as though there be no good ones among us. We come on a big boat and one night
the stars fell. Talk about being scared! We all run and hid and hollered and prayed. We thought
the end of the world had come.

I never had no whitefolks that was good to me. We all worked jest like dogs and had about half
enough to eat and got whupped for everything. Our days was a constant misery to us. I know
lots of niggers that was slaves had a good time but we never did. Seems hard that I can't say
anything good for any of 'em but I sho' can't. When I was small my job was to tote cool water
to the field to the hands. It kept me busy going back and forth and I had to be sho' my old
Mistress had a cool drink when she wanted it, too. Mother and my sister and me worked in the
field all day and come in time to clear away the things and cook supper. When we was through
in the kitchen we would spin fer a long time. Mother would spin and we would card.

My old Master was Dave Giles, the meanest man that ever lived. He didn't have many slaves,
my mammy, and me, and my sister, Uncle Bill, and Truman. He had owned my grandma but he give
her a bad whupping and she never did git over it and died. We all done as much work as a dozen
niggers--we knowed we had to.

I seen old Master git mad at Truman and he buckled him down across a barrel and whupped him
till he cut the blood out of him and then he rubbed salt and pepper in the raw places. It looked
like Truman would die it hurt so bad. I know that don't sound reasonable that a white man in
a Christian community would do such a thing but you can't realize how heartless he was. People
didn't know about it and we dassent tell for we knowed he'd kill us if we did. You must remember
he owned us body and soul and they wasn't anything we could do about it. Old Mistress and her
three girls was mean to us too.

One time me and my sister was spinning and old Mistress went to the well-house and she found
a chicken snake and killed it. She brought it back and she throwed it around my sister's neck.
She jest laughed and laughed about it. She thought it was a big joke.

Old Master stayed drunk all the time. I reckon that is the reason he was so fetched mean. My,
how we hated him! He finally killed hisself drinking and I remember Old Mistress called us
in to look at him in his coffin. We all marched by him slow like and I jest happened to look
up and caught my sister's eye and we both jest natchelly laughed--Why shouldn't we? We was
glad he was dead. It's a good thing we had our laugh fer old Mistress took us out and whupped
us with a broomstick. She didn't make us sorry though.

Old Master and Mistress lived in a nice big house on top of a hill and us darkies lived in
log cabins with log floors. Our dresses was made out of coarse cloth like cotton sacking and
and [TR: sic] it sho' lasted a long time. It ort to been called mule-hide for it was about
that tough.

We went to church sometimes. They had to let us do that or folks would have found out how mean
they was to us. Old Master'd give us a pass to show the patroller. We was glad to git the chance
to git away and we always went to church.

During the War we seen lots of soldiers. Some of them was Yankees and some were Sesesh soldiers.
My job every day was to take a big tray of food and set it on a stump about a quarter of a
mile from our house. I done this twice a day and ever time I went back the dishes would be
empty. I never did see nobody and didn't nobody tell me why I was to take the food up there
but of course it was either for soliders [TR: sic] that was scouting 'round or it may been
for some lowdown dirty bushwhacker, and again it might a been for some of old Master's folks
scouting 'round to keep out of the army.

We was the happiest folks in the world when we knowed we was free. We couldn't realize it at
first but how we did shout and cry for joy when we did realize it. We was afraid to leave the
place at first for fear old Mistress would bring us back or the pateroller would git us. Old
Mistress died soon after the War and we didn't care either. She didn't never do nothing to
make us love her. We was jest as glad as when old Master died. I don't know what become of
the three gals. They was about grown.

We moved away jest as far away as we could and I married soon after. My husband died and I
married again. I been married four times and all my husbands died. The last time I married
it was to a man that belonged to a Indian man, Sam Love. He was a good owner and was one of
the best men that ever lived. My husband never did move far away from him and he loved him
like a father. He always looked after him till he died. My husband has been dead five years.

I have had fifteen children. Four pairs of twins, and only four of them are living. The good
Lawd wouldn't let me keep them. I'se lived through three wars so you see I'se no baby. Me mother
was named Millie Henderson and me father Silas Hall. Me mother was sold in South Carolina to
Mister Hall, who brought her to Texas. Me father was born and raised by Master John Hall. Me
mother's and father's family consisted of five girls and one boy. My sisters' names were: Margrette,
Chalette, Lottie, Gracy and Loyo, and me brother's name was Dock Howard. I lived with me mother
and father in a log house on Master Hall's plantation. We would be sorry when dark, as de patrollers
would walk through de quarters and homes of de slaves all times of night wid pine torch lights
to whip de niggers found away from deir home.

At nights when me mother would slip away for a visit to some of de neighbors homes, she would
raise up the old plank floor to de log cabin and make pallets on de ground and put us to bed
and put the floor back down so dat we couldn't be seen or found by the patrollers on their
stroll around at nights.

My grandmother Lottie would always tell us to not let Master catch you in a lie, and to always
tell him de truth.

I was a house girl to me Mistress and nursed, cooked, and carried de children to and from school.
In summer we girls wore cotton slips and yarn dresses for winter. When I got married I was
dress in blue serge and was de third person to marry in it. Wedding dresses was not worn after
de wedding in dem days by niggers as we was taught by our Mistress dat it was bad luck to wear
de wedding dress after marriage. Therefore, 'twas handed down from one generation to the other one.

Me Mistress was sometimes good and sometimes mean. One day de cook was waiting de table and
when passing around de potatoes, old Mistress felt of one and as hit wasn't soft done, she
exclaimed to de cook, "What you bring these raw potatoes out here for?" and grab a fork and
stuck it in her eye and put hit out. She, de cook, lived about 10 years and died.

Me Mistress was de mother of five children, Crock, Jim, Boss and two girls name, Lea and Annie.

Dere home was a large two-story white house wid de large white posts.

As me Master went to de War de old overseer tried himself in meanness over de slaves as seemingly
he tried to be important. One day de slaves caught him and one held him whilst another knocked
him in de head and killed him.

Master's plantation was about 300 acres and he had 'bout 160 slaves. Before de slaves killed
our overseer, he would work 'em night and day. De slaves was punished when dey didn't do as
much work as de overseer wanted 'em to do.

He would lock 'em in jail some nights without food and kept 'em dere all night, and after whipping
'em de next morning would only give 'em bread and water to work on till noon.

When a slave was hard to catch for punishment dey would make 'em wear ball and chains. De ball
was 'bout de size of de head and made of lead.

On Sunday mornings before breakfast our Mistress would call us together, read de Bible and
show us pictures of de Devil in de Bible and tell us dat if we was not good and if we would
steal and tell lies dat old Satan would git us.

Close to our Master's plantation lived several families of old "poor white trash" who would
steal me Master's hogs and chickens and come and tell me Mistress dat dey seen some of de slaves
knock one of dere hogs in de head. Dis continued up till Master returned from de War and caught
de old white trash stealing his hogs. De niggers did at times steal Master's hogs and chickens,
and I would put biscuits and pieces of chicken in a sack under me dress dat hung from me waist,
as I waited de table for me Mistress, and later would slip off and eat it as dey never gave
de slaves none of dis sort of food.

We had church Sundays and our preacher Rev. Pat Williams would preach and our Master and family
and other nearby white neighbors would ofttime attend our services. De patrollers wouldn't
allow de slaves to hold night services, and one night dey caught me mother out praying. Dey
stripped her naked and tied her hands together and wid a rope tied to de hand cuffs and threw
one end of de rope over a limb and tied de other end to de pommel of a saddle on a horse. As
me mother weighed 'bout 200, dey pulled her up so dat her toes could barely touch de ground
and whipped her. Dat same night she ran away and stayed over a day and returned.

During de fall months dey would have corn shucking and cotton pickings and would give a prize
to de one who would pick de highest amount of cotton or shuck de largest pile of corn. De prize
would usually be a suit of clothes or something to wear and which would be given at some later
date.

We could only have dances during holidays, but dances was held on other plantations. One night
a traveler visiting me Master and wanted his boots shined. So Master gave de boots to one of
de slaves to shine and de slave put de boots on and went to a dance and danced so much dat
his feet swelled so dat when he returned he could not pull 'em off.

De next morning as de slave did not show up with de boots dey went to look for him and found
him lying down trying to pull de boots off. He told his Master dat he had put de boots on to
shine 'em and could not pull 'em off. So Master had to go to town and buy de traveler another
pair of boots. Before he could run away de slave was beaten wid 500 lashes.

De War dat brought our freedom lasted about two years. Me Master went and carried one of de
slaves for a servant. He was kind and good and from dat day on he never whipped another slave
nor did he allow any of his slaves whipped. Dis time lasted from January to June de 19th when
we was set free in de State of Texas.

Lincoln and Davis both died short of promise. I means dat dey both died before dey carried
out dere plans and promises for freeing de slaves.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves

MORRIS HILLYER Age 84 yrs. Alderson, Okla.

My father was Gabe Hillyer and my mother was Clarisay Hillyer, and our home was in Rome, Georgia.
Our owner was Judge Hillyer. He was de last United States senator to Washington, D. C., before
de War.

My mother died when I was only a few days old and the only mother I ever knew was Judge Hillyer's
wife, Miss Jane. Her nine children were all older than I was and when mother died Miss Jane
said mother had raised her children and she would raise hers. So she took us into her house
and we never lived at de quarters any more. I had two sisters, Sally and Sylvia, and we had
a room in de Big House and sister Sally didn't do nothing else but look after me. I used to
stand with my thumb in my mouth and hold to Miss Jane's apron while she knitted.

When Judge Hillyer was elected he sold out his farm and gave his slaves to his children. He
owned about twelve or fourteen slaves at this time. He gave me and my sister Sylvia to his
son, Dr. Hillyer, and my father to another one of his sons who was studying law. Father stayed
with him and took care of him until he graduated. Father learned to be a good carpenter while
he lived with George Hillyer. George never married until after de War.

Dr. Hillyer lived on a big plantation but he practiced medicine all de time. He didn't have
much time to look after de farm but he had good overseers and they sure didn't beat his slaves
or mistreat 'em in any way. Dr. Hillyer married a rich girl, Miss Mary Cooley, and her father
gave her fifteen slaves when she married and Judge Hillyer gave him five so he had a purty
good start from de first and he knowed how to make money so he was a wealthy man when de Rebellion
started.

My sister and I didn't know how to act when we was sent out there among strangers. We had to
live in de quarters just like de other niggers, and we didn't especially like it. I guess I
was a sort of bad boy.

There was several more boys about my age and we didn't have any work to do but just busy ourselves
by getting into mischief. We'd ride de calves, chase de pigs, kill de chickens, break up hens
nests, and in fact do most everything we hadn't ought to do. Finally they put us to toting
water to de field hands, minding de gaps, taking de cows to pasture and as dat kept us purty
busy we wasn't so bad after dat.

My happiest days was when I was with de old Judge and Miss Jane. I can sit here and think of
them old times and it seems like it was just yesterday dat it all happened. He was a great
hand to go to town every day and lounge around wid his cronies. I used to go with him, and
my how they would argue. Sometimes they would get mad and shake their canes in each other's
faces. I guess they was talking politics.

Our old Master liked cats better than any man I ever saw, and he always had five or six that
followed him about de place like dogs. When he went to eat they was always close to him and
just as soon as he finished he would always feed them. When he was gone us boys used to throw
at his cats or set de dogs on 'em. We was always careful dat no one saw us for if he had known
about it he would a-whipped us and no mistake. I wouldn't a-blamed him either, for I like cats
now. I think they are lots of company.

He was a typical Southern gentleman, medium sized, and wore a Van Dyke beard. He never whipped
his slaves, and he didn't have a one dat wouldn't a-died for him.

Judge Hillyer had one son, William, dat wouldn't go to college. He made fun of his brothers
for going to school so long, and said that he would be ashamed to go and stay five or six years.
After de War he settled down and studied law in Judge Akin's office and opened a office in
Athens, Georgia, and he made de best lawyer of them all.

Us boys used to go hunting with Master William. He hunted rabbits, quails, squirrels, and sometimes
he would kill a deer. He hunted mostly with dogs. He never used a gun but very little. Lead
was so scarce and cost so much dat he couldn't afford to waste a bullet on rabbits or snakes.
He made his own bullets. The dogs would chase a rabbit into a hollow tree and we'd take a stick
and twist him out. Sometimes we'd have nearly all de hide twisted off him when we'd git him out.

Old Judge Hillyer smoked a pipe with a long stem. He used to give me ten cents a day to fill
it for him. He told me I had to have $36 at the end of the year, but I never made it. There
was a store right close to us and I'd go down there and spend my money for lemon stick candy,
ginger cakes, peanuts, and firecrackers. Old Master knowed I wouldn't save it, and he didn't
care if I did spent it for it was mine to do with just as I pleased.

Every time a circus come to town I'd run off and they wouldn't see me again all day. Seemed
like I just couldn't help it. I wouldn't take time to git permission to go. One time to punish
me for running off he tied me up by my thumbs, and I had to stay home while de rest went. I
didn't dare try to git loose and run off for I knowed I'd git my jacket tanned if I did. Old
Master never laid his hand on me, but I knowed he would if I didn't do as he told me. He never
told us twice to do anything either.

Coins had curious names in them days. A dime was called a thrip. Fourpen was about the same
value as three cents or maybe a little more. It took three of 'em to make a thrip. There was
all sorts of paper money.

Every first Tuesday slaves were brought in from Virginia and sold on de block. De auctioneer
was Cap'n Dorsey. E. M. Cobb was de slave bringer. They would stand de slaves up on de block
and talk about what a fine looking specimen of black manhood or womanhood dey was, tell how
healthy dey was, look in their mouth and examine their teeth just like they was a horse, and
talk about de kind of work they would be fit for and could do. Young healthy boys and girls
brought the best prices. I guess they figured dat they would grow to be valuable. I used to
stand around and watch de sales take place but it never entered my mind to be afraid for I
knowed old Judge wasn't going to sell me. I thought I was an important member of his family.

Old Judge bought every roguish nigger in the country. He'd take him home and give him the key
to everything on de place and say to help hisself. Soon as he got all he wanted to eat he'd
quit being a rogue. Old Judge said that was what made niggers steal--they was hungry.

They used to scare us kids by telling us dat a runaway nigger would git us. De timber was awful
heavy in de river bottoms, and dey was one nigger dat run off from his master and lived for
years in these bottoms. He was there all during de War and come out after de surrender. Every
man in dat country owned him at some time or other. His owner sold him to a man who was sure
he could catch him--he never did, so he sold him to another slave owner and so on till nearly
everybody had him. He changed hands about six or seven times. They would come in droves with
blood hounds and hunt for him but dey couldn't catch him for he knowed them woods too well.
He'd feed de dogs and make friends with 'em and they wouldn't bother him. He lived on nuts,
fruit, and wild game, and niggers would slip food to him. He'd slip into town and get whiskey
and trade it to de niggers for food.

Judge Hillyer never 'lowanced his niggers and dey could always have anything on de place to
eat. We had so much freedom dat other slave owners in our neighborhood didn't like for us to
come among their slaves for they said we was free niggers and would make their slaves discontented.

After I went to live with Judge Hillyer's son, Dr. Hillyer, one of my jobs was to tote the
girls books to school every morning. All the plantation owners had a colored boy dat did that.
After we had toted de books to de school house we'd go back down de road a piece and line up
and have the "gone-bying-est" fight you ever see. We'd have regular battles. If I got licked
in de morning I'd go home and rest up and I'd give somebody a good licking dat evening. I reckon
I caught up with my fighting for in all my working life I have always worked with gangs of
men of from one to two-hundred and I never struck a man and no man ever struck me.

Jim Williams was a patroller, and how he did like to catch a nigger off de farm without a permit
so he could whip him. Jim thought he was de best man in de country and could whip de best of
'em. One night John Hardin, a big husky feller, was out late. He met Jim and knowed he was
in for it. Jim said, "John I'm gonna give you a white man's chance. I'm gonna let you fight
me and if you are de best man, well and good."

John say, "Master Jim, I can't fight wid you. Come on and give me my licking, and let me go
on home."

But Jim wouldn't do it, and he slapped John and called him some names and told him he is a
coward to fight him. All dis made John awful mad and he flew into him and give him the terriblest
licking a man ever toted. He went on home but knew he would git into trouble over it.

Jim talked around over the country about what he was going to do to John but everybody told
him dat he brought it all on hisself. He never did try to git another nigger to fight with him.

Yes, I guess charms keep off bad luck. I have wore 'em but money always was my best lucky piece.
I've made lots of money but I never made good use of it.

I was always afraid of ghosts but I never saw one. There was a graveyard beside de road from
our house to town and I always was afraid to go by it. I'd shut my eyes and run for dear life
till I was past de grave yard. I had heard dat there was a headless man dat stayed there on
cold rainy days or foggy nights he'd hide by de fence and throw his head at you. Once a man
got hit and he fell right down dead. I believed dat tale and you can imagine how I felt whenever
I had to go past there by myself and on foot.

I saw lots of Ku Kluxers but I wasn't afraid of them. I knowed I hadn't done nothing and they
wasn't after me. One time I met a bunch of 'em and one of 'em said, "Who is dis feller?" Another
one said, "Oh, dat's Gabe's foolish boy, come on, don't bother him." I always did think dat
voice sounded natural but I never did say anything about it. It sounded powerful like one of
old Judge's boys. Dey rode on and didn't bother me and I never was a bit afraid of 'em any more.

I went to school one month after de War. I never learned much but I learned to read some where
along de road dat I come over. My father come from Athens, Georgia, and took us away with him.
I learned the carpenter's trade from him. He was so mean to me dat I run away when I was nineteen.
I went back to Rome, Georgia, and got a job with a bridge gang and spent two years with 'em.
I went then to Henderson, Kentucky, and worked for ten years. There was hundreds of colored
people coming to de mines at Krebs and Alderson and I decided to come along, too. I never worked
in de mines but I did all sorts of carpentering for them.

I married in Atoka, Oklahoma, thirty-three years ago. I never had no children.

I've made lots of money but somehow it always got away from me. But me and my wife have our
little home here and we are both still able to work a little, so I guess we are making it all
right.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves

HAL HUTSON Age 90 yrs. Oklahoma City, Okla.

I was born at Galveston, Tennessee, October 12, 1847. There were 11 children: 7 brothers; Andrew,
George, Clent, Gilbert, Frank, Mack and Horace; and 3 girls: Rosie, Marie and Nancy. We were
all Hutsons. Together with my mother and father we worked for the same man whose name was Mr.
Barton Brown, but who we all call Master Brown, and sometimes Mr. Brown.

Master Brown had a good weather-board house, two story, with five or six rooms. They lived
pretty well. He had eight children. We lived in one-room log huts. There were a long string
of them huts. We slept on the floor like hogs. Girls and boys slept together--jest everybody
slept every whar. We never knew what biscuits were! We ate "seconds and shorts" (wheat ground
once) for bread. Ate rabbits, possums baked with taters, beans, and bean soup. No chicken,
fish and the like. My favorite dish now is beans.

Master Brown owned about 36 or 40 slaves, I can't recall jest now, and about 200 acres of ground.
There was very little cotton raised in Galveston--I mean jest some corn. Sometimes we would
shuck corn all night. He would not let us raise gardens of our own, but didn't mind us raising
corn and a few other truck vegetables to sell for a little spending change.

I learned to read, write and figger at an early age. Master Brown's boy and I were the same
age you see (14 years old) and he would send me to school to protect his kids, and I would
have to sit up there until school was out. So while sitting there I listened to what the white
teacher was telling the kids, and caught on how to read, write and figger--but I never let
on, 'cause if I was caught trying to read or figger dey would whip me something terrible. After
I caught on how to figger the white kids would ask me to teach them. Master Brown would often
say: "My God O'mighty, never do for that nigger to learn to figger."

We weren't allowed to count change. If we borrowed a fifty-cent piece, we would have to pay
back a fifty-cent piece--not five dimes or fifty pennies or ten nickels.

We went barefooted the year round and wore long shirts split on each side. All of us niggers
called all the whites "poor white trash." The overseer was nothing but poor white trash and
the meanest man that ever walked on earth. He never did whip me much 'cause I was kind of a
pet. I worked up to the Big House, but he sho' did whip them others. Why, one day he was beating
my mother, and I was too small to say anything, so my big brother heard her crying and came
running, picked up a chunk and that overseer stopped a'beating her. The white boy was holding
her on the ground and he was whipping her with a long leather whip. They said they couldn't
teach her no sense and she said "I don't wanna learn no sense." The overseer's name was Charlie
Clark. One day he whipped a man until he was bloody as a pig 'cause he went to the mill and
stayed too long.

The patroller rode all night and iffen we were caught out later than 10:00 o'clock they would
beat us, but we would git each other word by sending a man round way late at night. Always
take news by night. Of course the Ku Klux Klan didn't come 'til after the war. They was something
like the patrollers. Never heard of no trouble between the black and whites 'cause them niggers
were afraid to resist them.

My biggest job was keeping flies off'n the table up at the Big House. When time come to go
in for the day we would cut up and dance. I can't remember any of the songs jest now, but we
had some that we sung. We danced a whole lots and jest sung "made up" songs.

Old Master would stay up to hear us come in. Of course Saturday afternoon was a holiday. We
didn't work no holidays. Master gave us one week off for Christmas, and never worked us on
Sunday, unless the "ox was in the ditch." When the slaves got sick we had white doctors, and
we would wait on each other. Drink dock root tea, mullin tea, and flaxweed tea, but we never
wore charms.

I think it's a good thing that slavery's over. It ought to been over a good while ago. But
its going to be slavery all over again if things don't git better. But I thank God I've been
a Christian for 70 years, and now is a member of Tabernacle Baptist Church and deacon of the
church, and a Christian 'cause the Bible teaches me to be.

That war was a awful thing. I used to pack them soldiers water on my head, and then I worked
at Fort Sill and Fort Dawson in Tennessee. Those Yankees came by nights--got behind those rebels,
and took their hams, drove horses in the houses, killed their chickens and ate up the rebels
food, but the Yanks didn't bother us niggers.

When freedom come old Master called us all in from the fields and told us, "All of you niggers
are free as frogs now to go wherever you choose. You are your own man now." We all continued
working for him at $5.00 a month. After the crops were gathered the niggers scattered out.
Some went North--and we would say when they went North that they had "crossed the water."

I never married 'till after the War. Married at my mother's house 'cause my wife's mother didn't
let us marry at her house, so I sent Jack Perry after her on a hoss and we had a big dinner--and
jest got married.

I am the father of nine children, but jest three is living. One is a dentist in Muskogge, Dr.
Andrew Hutson. All of the children are pretty well read. We never had schools for niggers until
after slavery. Tulsa, Okla.

When a feller gets as old as me it's a heap easier to forget things than it is to remember,
but I ain't never forgot that old plantation where good old Doctor Allison lived back there
in Georgia long before the War that brought us slaves the freedom.

I hear the slaves talking about mean masters when I was a boy. They wasn't talking about Master
Allison though, 'cause he was a good man and took part for the slaves when any trouble come
up with the overseer.

The Mistress' name was Louisa (the same name as the gal I was married to later after the War),
and she was just about as mean as was the old Master good. I was the house boy when I gets
old enough to understand what the Master wants done and I does it just like he says, so I reckon
that's why we always get along together.

The Master helped to raise my mammy. When I was born he says to her (my mammy tells me when
I gets older): "Cheney", the old Master say, "that boy is going be different from these other
children. I aims to see that he is. He's going be in the house all the time, he ain't going
work in the fields; he's going to stay right with me all the time."

They was about twenty slaves on the plantation but I was the one old Master called for when
he wanted something special for himself. I was the one he took with him on the trips to town,
I was the one who fetch him the cooling drink after he look about the fields and sometimes
I carry the little black bag when he goes a-doctoring folks with the misery away off some other
farm.

The Master hear about there going be an auction one day and he figgered maybe he needed some
more slaves if they was good ones, so he took me and started out early in the morning. It wasn't
very far and we got there early before the auction started. Rockon that was the first time
I ever see any slaves sold.

They was a long platform made of heavy planks and all the slaves was lined up on the platform,
and they was stripped to the waist, men, women, and children. One or two of the women folks
was bare naked. They wasn't young women neither, just middle age ones, but they was built good.
Some of them was well greased and that grease covered up many a scar they'd earned for some
foolishment or other.

The Master don't buy none and pretty soon we starts home. The Master was riding horseback,--he
didn't ever use no buggy 'cause he said that was the way for folks to travel who was too feeble
to sit in the saddle--and I rode back of him on another horse, but that horse I rides is just
horse while the Master's was a real thoroughbred like maybe you see on race tracks down in
the South.

That auction kept bothering me all the way back to the plantation. I kept seeing them little
children standing on the flatform (platform), their mammy and pappy crying hard 'cause their
young'uns is being sold. They was a lot of heartaches even they was slaves and it gets me worried.

I asked the Master is he going to have an auction and he jest laugh. I ain't never sold no
slaves yet and I ain't going to, he says. And I gets easier right then. I kind of hates to
think about standing up on one of them platforms, kinder sorry to leave my old mammy and the
Master, so I was easy in the heart when he talked like that.

The plantation house was a big frame and the yard was shaded with trees all around. The Master's
children--four boys and two girls--would play in the yard with me just like I was one of the
family. And we'd go hunting and fishing. There was a creek not far away and they was good fishing
in the stream and squirrels in the trees. Mighty lot of fun to catch them fishes but more fun
when they is all fried brown and ready for to eat with a piece of hot pone. Ain't no fish ever
taste that good since!

One thing I sort of ponders about. The old Master don't let us have no religion meetings and
reading and writing is something I learn after the War. Some of the slaves talk about meeting
'round the country and wants to have preaching on the plantation. Master says NO. No preacher
around here to tell about the Bible and religion will be just a puzzlement, the Master say,
and we let it go at that. I reckon that was the only thing he was set against.

That and the Yankees. The Master went to the War and stayed 'til it was most over. He was a
mighty sick man when he come back to the old place, but I was there waiting for him just like
always. All the time he was away I take care around the house. That's what he say for me to
do when he rides away to fight the Yankees. Lot's of talk about the War but the slaves goes
right on working just the same, raising cotton and tobacco.

The slaves talk a heap about Lincoln and some trys to run away to the North. Don't hear much
about Jeff Davis, mostly Lincoln. He give us slaves the freedom but we was better off as we was.

The day of freedom come around just [HW: like] any other day, except the Master say for me
to bring up the horses, we is going to town. That's when he hears about the slaves being free.
We gets to the town and the Master goes into the store. It's pretty early but the streets was
filled with folks talking and I wonder what makes the Master in such a hurry when he comes
out of the store.

He gets on his horse and tells me to follow fast. When we gets back to the plantation he sounds
the horn calling the slaves. They come in from the fields and meet 'round back of the kitchen
building that stood separate from the Master's house. They all keeps quiet while the Master
talks: "You-all is free now, and all the rest of the slaves is free too. Nobody owns you now
and nobody going to own you anymore!" That was good news, I reckon, but nobody know what to
do about it.

The crops was mostly in and the Master wants the folks to stay 'til the crop is finished. They
talk about it the rest of that day. They wasn't no celebration 'round the place, but they wasn't
no work after the Master tells us we is free. Nobody leave the place though. Not 'til in the
fall when the work is through. Then some of us go into the town and gets work 'cause everybody
knows the Allison slaves was the right kind of folks to have around.

That was the first money I earn and then I have to learn how to spend it. That was the hardest
part 'cause the prices was high and the wages was low.

Then I moves on and meets the gal that maybe I been looking for, Louisa Baker, and right away
she takes to me and we is married. Ain't been no other woman but her and she's waiting for
me wherever the dead waits for the living.

I reckon she won't have so long to wait now, even if I is feeling pretty spry and got good
use of the feets and hands. Ninety-eight years brings a heap of wear and some of these days
the old body'll need a long time rest and then I'll join her for all the time.

I is ready for the New Day a-coming! Tulsa, Okla.

"Boom ... Boom! Boom ... Boom!" That's the way the old weaver go all day long when my sister,
Margaret, is making cloth for the slaves down on old Doc Joe Jackson's plantation in Louisiana.

That was near the little place of Bunker, and its my birthplace, and I guess where all Mammy's
children were born because she was never sold but once and nobody but the old Doc ever did
own her after she come to his place.

He always say couldn't nobody get work out of Mammy but him. I guess that's just his foolery
'cause if she ain't no good the Old Doc most likely sell her to some of them white folks in Texas.

That's what they done to them mean, no account slaves--just send them to Texas. Them folks
sure knew how for to handle 'em!

But I was talking about my sister, Margaret. I can still see her weaving the cloth--Boom!...
Boom!--and she hear that all the day and get mighty tired. Sometimes she drop her head and
go to sleep. The Mistress get her then sure. Rap her on the head with almost anything handy,
but she hit pretty easy, just trying to scare her that's all.

The old Master though, he ain't so easy as that. The whippings was done by the master and the
overseer just tell the old Doc about the troubles, like the old Doc say:

"You just watch the slaves and see they works and works hard, but don't lay on with the whip,
because I is the only one who knows how to do it right!"

Maybe the old Master was sickened of whippings from the stories the slaves told about the plantation
that joined ours on the north.

If they ever was a living Devil that plantation was his home and the owner was It! That's what
the old slaves say, and when I tell you about it see if I is right.

That man got so mean even the white folks was scared of him, 'specially if he was filled with
drink. That's the way he was most of the time, just before the slaves was freed.

All the time we hear about slaves on that place getting whipped or being locked in the stock--that
one of them things where your head and hands is fastened through holes in a wide board, and
you stands there all the day and all the night--and sometimes we hears of them staying in the
stock for three-four weeks if they trys to run away to the north.

Sometimes we hears about some slave who is shot by that man while he is wild with the drink.
That's what I'm telling about now.

Don't nobody know what made the master mad at the old slave--one of the oldest on the place.
Anyway, the master didn't whip him; instead of that he kills him with the gun and scares the
others so bad most of 'em runs off and hides in the woods.

The drunk master just drags the old dead slave to the graveyard which is down in the corner
away from the growing crops, and hunts up two of the young boys who was hiding in the barn.
He takes them to dig the grave.

The master stands watching every move they make, the dead man lays there with his face to the
sky, and the boys is so scared they could hardly dig. The master keeps telling them to hurry
with the digging.

After while he tells them to stop and put the body in the grave. They wasn't no coffin, no
box, for him. Just the old clothes that he wears in the fields.

But the grave was too short and they start to digging some more, but the master stop them.
He says to put back the body in the grave, and then he jumps into the grave hisself. Right
on the dead he jumps and stomps 'til the body is mashed and twisted to fit the hole. Then the
old nigger is buried.

That's the way my Mammy hears it and told it to us children. She was a Christian and I know
she told the truth.

Like I said, Mammy was never sold only to Master Jackson. But she's seen them slave auctions
where the men, women and children was stripped naked and lined up so's the buyers could see
what kind of animals they was getting for their money.

My pappy's name was Jacob Keller and my mother was Maria. They's both dead long ago, and I'm
waiting for the old ship Zion that took my Mammy away, like we use to sing of in the woods:

    "It has landed my old Mammy,
    It has landed my old Mammy,
    Get on board, Get on board,
    'Tis the Old Ship of Zion--
    Get on board!"

I'm pretty nigh to blind right now, and all I can do is set on this little old front porch
and maybe try to keep the things picked up behing my grandchild and his wife, because she has
to work and he is out selling wood most of the time.

But I didn't have to live in any such a house during the time I was young like they is, because
I belonged to old Chief Rolley McIntosh, and my pappy and mammy have a big, nice, clean log
house to live in, and everything round it look better than most renters got these days.

We never did call old Master anything but the Chief or the General for that's what everybody
called him in them days, and he never did act towards us like we was slaves, much anyways.
He was the mikko of the Kawita town long before the War and long before I was borned, and he
was the chief of the Lower Creeks even before he got to be the chief of all the Creeks.

But just at the time of the War the Lower Creeks stayed with him and the Upper Creeks, at least
them that lived along to the south of where we live, all go off after that old man Gouge, and
he take most of the Seminole too. I hear old Tuskenugge, the big man with the Seminoles, but
I never did see him, nor mighty few of the Seminoles.

My mammy tells me old General ain't been living in that Kawita town very many years when I
was borned. He come up there from down in the fork of the river where the Arkansas and the
Verdigris run together a little while after all the last of the Creeks come out to the Territory.
His brother old Chili McIntosh, live down in that forks of the rivers too, but I don't think
he ever move up into that Kawita town. It was in the narrow stretch where the Verdigris come
close to the Arkansas. They got a pretty good sized white folks town there now they call Coweta,
but the old Creek town was different from that. The folks lived all around in that stretch
between the rivers, and my old Master was the boss of all of them.

For a long time after the Civil War they had a court at the new town called Coweta court, and
a school house too, but before I was born they had a mission school down the Kawita Creek from
where the town now is.

Earliest I can remember about my master was when he come to the slave settlement where we live
and get out of the buggy and show a preacher all around the place. That preacher named Mr.
Loughridge, and he was the man had the mission down on Kawita Creek before I was born, but
at that time he had a school off at some other place. He git down out the buggy and talk to
all us children, and ask us how we getting along.

I didn't even know at that time that old Chief was my master, until my pappy tell me after
he was gone. I think all the time he was another preacher.

My pappy's name was Jackson McInotsh, and my mammy name was Hagar. I think old Chief bring
them out to the Territory when he come out with his brother Chili and the rest of the Creek
people. My pappy tell me that old Master's pappy was killed by the Creeks because he signed
up a treaty to bring his folks out here, and old Master always hated that bunch of Creeks that
done that.

I think old man Gouge was one of the big men in that bunch, and he fit in the War on the Government
side, after he done holler and go on so about the Government making him come out here.

Old Master have lots of land took up all around that Kawita place, and I don't know how much,
but a lot more than anybody else. He have it all fenced in with good rail fence, and all the
Negroes have all the horses and mules and tools they need to work it with. They all live in
good log houses they built themselves, and everything they need.

Old Master's land wasn't all in one big field, but a lot of little fields scattered all over
the place. He just take up land what already was a kind of prairie, and the niggers don't have
to clear up much woods.

We all live around on them little farms, and we didn't have to be under any overseer like the
Cherokee Negroes had lots of times. We didn't have to work if they wasn't no work to do that day.

Everybody could have a little patch of his own, too, and work it between times, on Saturdays
and Sundays if he wanted to. What he made on that patch belong to him, and the old Chief never
bothered the slaves about anything.

Every slave can fix up his own cabin any way he want to, and pick out a good place with a spring
if he can find one. Mostly the slave houses had just one big room with a stick-and-mud chimney,
just like the poor people among the Creeks had. Then they had a brush shelter built out of
four poles with a roof made out of brush, set out to one side of the house where they do the
cooking and eating, and sometimes the sleeping too. They set there when they is done working,
and lay around on corn shuck beds, because they never did use the log house much only in cold
and rainy weather.

Old Chief just treat all the Negroes like they was just hired hands, and I was a big girl before
I knowed very much about belonging to him.

I was one of the youngest children in my family; only Sammy and Millie was younger than I was.
My big brothers was Adam, August and Nero, and my big sisters was Flora, Nancy and Rhoda. We
could work a mighty big patch for our own selves when we was all at home together, and put
in all the work we had to for the old Master too, but after the War the big children all get
married off and took up land of they own.

Old Chief lived in a big log house made double with a hall in between, and a lot of white folks
was always coming there to see him about something. He was gone off somewhere a lot of the
time, too, and he just trusted the Negroes to look after his farms and stuff. We would just
go on out in the fields and work the crops just like they was our own, and he never come around
excepting when we had harvest time, or to tell us what he wanted planted.

Sometimes he would send a Negro to tell us to gather up some chickens or turkeys or shoats
he wanted to sell off, and sometimes he would send after loads of corn and wheat to sell. I
heard my pappy say old Chief and Mr. Chili McIntosh was the first ones to have any wheat in
the Territory, but I don't know about that.

Along during the War the Negro men got pretty lazy and shiftless, but my pappy and my big brothers
just go right on and work like they always did. My pappy always said we better off to stay
on the place and work good and behave ourselves because old Master take care of us that way.
But on lots of other places the men slipped off.

I never did see many soldiers during the War, and there wasn't any fighting close to where
we live. It was kind of down in the bottoms, not far from the Verdigris and that Gar Creek,
and the soldiers would have bad crossings if the come by our place.

We did see some whackers riding around sometimes, in little bunches of about a dozen, but they
never did bother us and never did stop. Some of the Negro girls that I knowed of mixed up with
the poor Creeks and Seminoles, and some got married to them after the War, but none of my family
ever did mix up with them that I knows of.

Along towards the last of the War I never did see old Chief come around any more, and somebody
say he went down into Texas. He never did come back that I knows of, and I think he died down
there.

One day my pappy come home and tell us all that the Creek done sign up to quit the War, and
that old Master send word that we all free now and can take up some land for our own selves
or just stay where we is if we want to. Pappy stayed on that place where he was at until he died.

I got to be a big girl and went down to work for a Creek family close to where they got that
Checotah town now. At that time it was just all a scattered settlement of Creeks and they call
it Eufaula town. After while I marry a man name Joe Johnson, at a little settlement they call
Rentesville. He have his freedmen's allotment close to that place, but mine is up on the Verdigris,
and we move up there to live.

We just had one child, named Louisa, and she married Tom Armstrong. They had three-four children,
but one was named Ton, and it is him I live with now. My husband's been dead a long, long time
now. 840 East King St., Tulsa, Oklahoma.

I was born right in the middle of the War on the Mark Lowery plantation at Sparta, in White
County, Tennessee, so I don't know anything much about them slave days except what my mammy
told me long years ago. 'Course I mean the Civil War, for to us colored folks they just wasn't
no other war as meanful as that one.

My mother she come from Virginia when a little girl, but never nobody tells me where at my
pappy is from. His name was David Lowery when I was born, but I guess he had plenty other names,
for like my mammy he was sold lots of times.

Salina was my mammy's name, and she belonged to a Mister Clark, who sold her and pappy to Mark
Lowery 'cause she was a fighting, mule-headed woman.

It wasn't her fault 'cause she was a fighter. The master who owned her before Mister Clark
was one of them white mens who was always whipping and beating his slaves and mammy couldn't
stand it no more.

That's the way she tells me about it. She just figgured she would be better off dead and out
of her misery as to be whipped all the time, so one day the master claimed they was something
wrong with her work and started to raise his whip, but mammy fought back and when the ruckus
was over the Master was laying still on the ground and folks thought he was dead, he got such
a heavy beating.

Mammy says he don't die and right after that she was sold to Mister Clark I been telling you
about. And mammy was full of misery for a long time after she was carried to Mark Lowery's
plantation where at I was born during of the War.

She had two children while belonging to Mister Clark and he wouldn't let them go with mammy
and pappy. That's what caused her misery. Pappy tried to ease her mind but she jest kept a'crying
for her babies, Ann and Reuban, till Mister Lowery got Clark to leave them visit with her once
a month.

Mammy always says that Mark Lowery was a good master. But he'd heard things about mammy before
he got her and I reckon was curious to know if they was all true. Mammy says he found out mighty
quick they was.

It was mammy's second day on the plantation and Mark Lowery acted like he was going to whip
her for something she'd done or hadn't, but mammy knocked him plumb through the open cellar
door. He wasn't hurt, not even mad for mammy says he climbed out the cellar a'laughing, saying
he was only fooling to see if she would fight.

But mammy's troubles wasn't over then, for Mark Lowery he got himself a new young wife (his
first wife was dead), and mammy was round of the house most of the time after that.

Right away they had trouble. The Mistress was trying to make mammy hurry up with the work and
she hit mammy with the broom stick. Mammy's mule temper boiled up all over the kitchen and
the Master had to stop the fighting.

He wouldn't whip mammy for her part in the trouble, so the Mistress she sent word to her father
and brothers and they come to Mister Lowery's place.

They was going to whip mammy, they was good and mad. Master was good and mad, too, and he warned
'em home.

"Whip your own slaves." He told them. "Mine have to work and if they're beat up they can't
do a days work. Get on home--I'll take care of this." And they left.

My folks didn't have no food troubles at Mark Lowery's like they did somewheres else. I remember
mammy told me about one master who almost starved his slaves. Mighty stingy I reckon he was.

Some of them slaves was so poorly thin they ribs would kinder rustle against each other like
corn stalks a-drying in the hot winds. But they gets even one hog-killing time, and it was
funny too, mammy said.

They was seven hogs, fat and ready for fall hog-killing time. Just the day before old master
told off they was to be killed something happened to all them porkers. One of the field boys
found them and come a-telling the master: "The hogs is all died, now they won't be any meats
for the winter."

When the master gets to where at the hogs is laying, they's a lot of Negroes standing round
looking sorrow-eyed at the wasted meat. The master asks: "What's the illness with 'em?"

"Malitis." They tell him, and they acts like they don't want to touch the hogs. Master says
to dress them anyway for they ain't no more meat on the place.

He says to keep all the meat for the slave families, but that's because he's afraid to eat
it hisself account of the hogs' got malitis.

"Don't you-all know what is malitis?" Mammy would ask the children when she was telling of
the seven fat hogs and seventy lean slaves. And she would laugh, remembering how they fooled
the old master so's to get all them good meats.

"One of the strongest Negroes got up early in the morning," Mammy would explain, "long 'fore
the rising horn called the slaves from their cabins. He skitted to the hog pen with a heavy
mallet in his hand. When he tapped Mister Hog 'tween the eyes with that mallet 'malitis' set
in mighty quick, but it was a uncommon 'disease', even with hungry Negroes around all the time."

Mammy had me three sisters and a brother while on the Lowery plantation. They was Lisa, Addie,
Alice and Lincoln. It was a long time after the War and we was all freed before we left old
Master Lowery.

Stayed right there where we was at home, working in the fields, living in the same old cabins,
just like before the War. Never did have no big troubles after the War, except one time the
Ku Klux Klan broke up a church meeting and whipped some of the Negroes.

The preacher was telling about the Bible days when the Klan rode up. They was all masked up
and everybody crawled under the benches when they shouted: "We'll make you damn niggers wish
you wasn't free!"

And they just about did. The preacher got the worst whipping, blood was running from his nose
and mouth and ears, and they left him laying on the floor.

They whipped the women just like the men, but Mammy and the girls wasn't touched none and we
run all the way back to the cabin. Layed down with all our clothes on and tried to sleep, but
we's too scairt to close our eyes.

Mammy reckoned old Master Lowery was a-riding with the Klan that night, else we'd got a flogging
too.

We first moved about a mile from Master Lowery's place and ever week we'd ask mammy if we children
could go see old Master and she'd say: "Yes, if you-all are good niggers."

The old Master was always glad to see us children and he would give us candy and apples and
treat us mighty fine.

The old plantations gone, the old Masters gone, the old slaves is gone, and I'll be a going
some of these days, too, for I been here a mighty long time and they ain't nobody needs me
now 'cause I is too old for any good.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves

"UNCLE" GEORGE G. KING Age 83 yrs Tulsa, Oklahoma

"Prayers for sale.... Prayers for sale...." Uncle George chants in sing-song fashion as he
roams around Tulsa's Greenwood Negro district--pockets filled with prayer papers that are soiled
and dirty with constant handling.

But they are potent, Uncle George tells those who fear the coming of some trouble, disaster
or just ordinary misery, and there's a special prayer for each and every trouble--including
one to keep away the bill collector when the young folks forget to make payments on the radio,
the furniture, the car, or the Spring outfit purchased months ago from the credit clothier.

Its all in the Bible and the Bible is his workshop--'cause folks don't know how to pray.

He's mighty old, is Uncle George King, and he'll tell you that he was born on two-hundred acres
of Hell, but the whitefolks called it Samuel Roll's plantation (six miles N.E. of Lexington,
South Carolina).

Kinder small for a plantation, Uncle George explains, but plenty room for that devil overseer
to lay on the lash, and plenty room for the old she-devil Mistress to whip his mammy til' she
was just a piece of living raw meat!

The old Master talked hard words, but the Mistress whipped. Lot's of difference, and Uncle
George ought to know, 'cause he's felt the lash layed on pretty heavy when he was no older
than kindergarten children of today.

The Mistress owned the slaves and they couldn't be sold without her say-so. That's the reason
George was never sold, but the Master once tried to sell him 'cause the beatings was breaking
him down. Old Mistress said "No", and used it for an excuse to whip his Mammy. Uncle George
remembers that, too.

They crossed her wrists and tied them with a stout cord. They made her bend over so that her
arms was sticking back between her legs and fastened the arms with a stick so's she couldn't
straighten up.

He saw the Mistress pull his Mammy's clothes over her head so's the lash would reach the skin.
He saw the overseer lay on the whip with hide busting blows that left her laying, all a shiver,
on the ground, like a wounded animal dying from the chase.

He saw the Mistress walk away, laughing, while his Mammy screamed and groaned--the old Master
standing there looking sad and wretched, like he could feel the blows on Mammy's bared back
and legs as much as she.

The Mistress was a great believer in the power of punishment, and Uncle George remembers the
old log cabin jail built before the War, right on the plantation, where runaway slaves were
stowed away 'till they would promise to behave themselves.

The old jail was full up during most of the War. Three runaway slaves were still chained to
its floor when the Master gave word the Negroes were free.

They were Prince, Sanovey (his wife), and Henry, who were caught and whipped by the patrollers,
and then brought back to the plantation for another beating before being locked in jail.

The Mistress ordered them chained, and the overseer would come every morning with the same
question: "Will you niggers promise not to runaway no more?"

But they wouldn't promise. One at a time the overseer would loosen the chains, and lead them
from the jail to cut them with powerful blows from the lash, then drag them back to be chained
until the next day when more lickings were given 'cause they wouldn't promise.

The jail was emptied on the day Master Roll called together all the men, women and children
to tell them they wasn't slaves no more. Uncle George tells it this way:

"The Master he says we are all free, but it don't mean we is white. And it don't mean we is
equal. Just equal for to work and earn our own living and not depend on him for no more meats
and clother." [TR: clothes?]

Food was scarce before the War; it was worse after the shooting and killing was over, and Uncle
George says: "There wasn't no corn bread, no bacon--just trash eating trash, like when General
Sherman marched down through the country taking everything the soldiers could lug away, and
burning all along the way.

"Wasn't nothing to eat after he march by. Darkies search 'round the barns, maybe find some
grains of corn in the manure, and they'd parch the grains--nothing else to eat, except sometimes
at night Mammy would skit out and steal scraps from the Master's house for the children.

"She had lots of hungry mouths, too. They was seven of us then, six boys and a girl, Eliza.
The boys was Wesley, Simeon, Moses, Peter, William and me, George. This pappy's name was Griffin.

"But they was other pappys (Mammy told him) when Eva was born long before any of us, and Laura
come next, but from a white daddy. Mammy lost them when she was sold around on the markets.

"The Klan they done lots of riding round the country. One night the come down to the old slave
quarters where the cabins is all squared round each other, and called everybody outdoors. They's
looking for two women.

"They picks 'em out of the crowd right quick and say they been with white men. Says their children
is by white men, and they're going to get whipped so's they'll remember to stay with their
own kind. The women kick and scream, but the mens grab them and roll them over a barrel and
let fly with the whip."

It was a long time after the Civil War that Uncle George got his first schooling or attended
regular church meetings. Like he says:

"Getting up at four o'clock in the morning, hoeing in the fields all day, doing chores when
they come in from the fields, and then piddling with the weaver 'til nine or ten every night--it
just didn't leave no time for reading and such, even if we was allowed to."

And religion, that came later too, for during the old plantation days Uncle George's white
folks didn't think a Negro needed religion--there wasn't a Heaven for Negroes anyhow.

Finally, though, the Master gave them right to hold meetings on the plantation, and old Peter
Coon was the preacher. The overseer was there with guards to keep the Negroes from getting
too much riled up when old Peter started talking about Paul or some of the things in the Old
Testament. That's all he would talk about; nothing 'bout Jesus, just Paul and the Old Testament.

His Mammy went to every meeting. Like he says: "She knew them good things was good for her
children and she told us about the Bible."

Like his old Mammy, Uncle George is a firm believer in the power of the word. "Prayers are
saving!" Uncle George says, "But they's lots of folks' don't know how to pray."

That's why he has prayers for sale--and he knows they are never failing, "If you tack 'em up
on the wall and say 'em over and over every day they's sure to be answered." McAlester, Oklahoma

    "They hung Jeff Davis to a sour apple tree!
      While we go marching on!"

Dat was de song de Yankees sang when they marched by our house. They didn't harm us in any
way. I guess de War was over then 'cause a few days after dat old Master say, "Matt", and I
say, "Suh?" He say, "Come here. You go tell Henry I say come out here and to bring the rest
of the niggers with him." I went to the north door and I say, "Henry, Master Willis say ever
one of you come out here." We all went outside and line up in front of old Master. He say,
"Henry". Henry say, "Yes sah". Old Master say, "Every one of you is free--as free as I am.
You all can leave or stay 'round here if you want to."

We all stayed on for a long time 'cause we didn't have no other home and didn't know how to
take keer of ourselves. We was kind of scared I reckon. Finally I heard my mother was in Walker
County, Alabama, and I left and went to live with her.

My mother was Harriet Davis and she was born in Virginia. I don't know who my father was. My
grandmother was captured in Africa when she was a little girl. A big boat was down at the edge
of a bay an' the people was all excited about it an' some of the bravest went up purty close
to look at it. The men on the boat told them to come on board and they could have the pretty
red handkerchiefs, red and blue beads and big rings. A lot of them went on board and the ship
sailed away with them. My grandmother never saw any of her folks again.

When I was about five years old they brought my grandmother, my mother and my two aunts and
two uncles to Tuskaloosa from Fayettesville, Alabama. We crossed a big river on a ferry boat.
They put us on the "block" and sold us. I can remember it well. A white man "cried" me off
just like I was a animal or varmint or something. He said, "Here's a little nigger, who will
give me a bid on her. She will make a good house gal someday." Old man Davis give him $300.00
for me. I don't know whether I was afraid or not; I don't think I cared just so I had something
to eat. I was allus hungry. Miss Davis' grandmother and one of my aunts and uncles. Old man
Davis bought the rest of us. Uncle Henry looked after me when he could. I could see my mother
once in awhile but not often.

I had a purty easy time. I didn't have to work very hard 'till I was about ten years old. I
started working in the field and I had to work in the weaving room too. We made all our own
clothes. I spun and wove cotton and wool. Old Master bought our shoes. We made fancy cloth.
We could stripe the cloth or check it or leave it plain. We also wove coverlids and jeans to
make mens suits out of. I could still do that if I had to.

We all went to church with the white folks. We didn't have no colored preachers. The niggers
would get happy and shout all over the place. Sometimes they'd fall out doors.

The Big House was a double log, two story house, not very fine but awful comfortable. They
was four big fireplace rooms downstairs and two upstairs. Then they was two sort of shed rooms.
There was a big piazza across the front. The kitchen was a way off from the house, seems like
it was 200 feet at least. Our quarters were close by at the back. He didn't have many slaves
and they was nearly all my kinfolks. There was Aunt Emmy and Phillis, Uncles Henry, Mitchell,
Louis and Andy, and the others were Uncle Logan and Uncle Nathan. They was old Mistress' slaves
when she done married.

Old Master and old Mistress had three boys, Eli, Billy and Dock. They had to go to war and
old Mistress sho' did cry. She say they might get killed and she might not see 'em any more.
I wonder why all dem white folks didn't think of that when they sold mothers away from they
chillun. I had to be sold away from my mother. Two of her boys was badly wounded but they all
come back.

Abe Lincoln done everything he could for the niggers. We lost our best friend when he got killed.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves

GEORGE KYE Age 110 yrs. Fort Gibson, Okla.

I was born in Arkansas under Mr. Abraham Stover, on a big farm about twenty miles north of
Van Buren. I was plumb grown when the Civil War come along, but I can remember back when the
Cherokee Indians was in all that part of the country.

Joe Kye was my pappy's name what he was born under back in Garrison County, Virginia, and I
took that name when I was freed, but I don't know whether he took it or not because he was
sold off by old Master Stover when I was a child. I never have seen him since. I think he wouldn't
mind good, leastways that what my mammy say.

My mammy was named Jennie and I don't think I had any brothers or sisters, but they was a whole
lot of children at the quarters that I played and lived with. I didn't live with mammy because
she worked all the time, and us children all stayed in one house.

It was a little one room log cabin, chinked and daubed, and you couldn't stir us with a stick.
When we went to eat we had a big pan and all ate out of it. One what ate the fastest got the most.

Us children wore homespun shirts and britches and little slips, and nobody but the big boys
wore any britches. I wore just a shirt until I was about 12 years old, but it had a long tall
down to my calves. Four or five of us boys slept in one bed, and it was made of hewed logs
with rope laced acrost it and a shuck mattress. We had stew made out of pork and potatoes,
and sometimes greens and pot liquor, and we had ash cake mostly, but biscuits about once a month.

In the winter time I had brass toed shoes made on the place, and a cloth cap with ear flaps.

The work I done was hoeing and plowing, and I rid a horse a lot for old Master because I was
a good rider. He would send me to run chores for him, like going to the mill. He never beat
his negroes but he talked mighty cross and glared at us until he would nearly scare us to death
sometimes.

He told us the rules and we lived by them and didn't make trouble, but they was a neighbor
man that had some mean negroes and he nearly beat them to death. We could hear them hollering
in the field sometimes. They would sleep in the cotton rows, and run off, and then they would
catch the cat-o-nine tails sure nuff. He would chain them up, too, and keep them tied out to
trees, and when they went to the field they would be chained together in bunches sometimes
after they had been cutting up.

We didn't have no place to go to church, but old Master didn't care if we had singing and praying,
and we would tie our shoes on our backs and go down the road close to the white church and
all set down and put our shoes on and go up close and listen to the service.

Old Master was baptized almost every Sunday and cussed us all out on Monday. I didn't join
the church until after freedom, and I always was a scoundrel for dancing. My favorite preacher
was old Pete Conway. He was the only ordained colored preacher we had after freedom, and he
married me.

Old Master wouldn't let us take herb medicine, and he got all our medicine in Van Buren when
we was sick. But I wore a buckeye on my neck just the same.

When the War come along I was a grown man, and I went off to serve because old Master was too
old to go, but he had to send somebody anyways. I served as George Stover, but every time the
sergeant would call out "Abe Stover", I would answer "Here".

They had me driving a mule team wagon that Old Master furnished, and I went with the Sesesh
soldiers from Van Buren to Texarkana and back a dozen times or more. I was in the War two years,
right up to the day of freedom. We had a battle close to Texarkana and another big one near
Van Buren, but I never left Arkansas and never got a scratch.

One time in the Texarkana battle I was behind some pine trees and the bullets cut the limbs
down all over me. I dug a big hole with my bare hands before I hardly knowed how I done it.

One time two white soldiers named Levy and Briggs come to the wagon train and said they was
hunting slaves for some purpose. Some of us black boys got scared because we heard they was
going to Squire Mack and get a reward for catching runaways, so me and two more lit out of there.

They took out after us and we got to a big mound in the woods and hid. Somebody shot at me
and I rolled into some bushes. He rid up and got down to look for me but I was on t'other side
of his horse and he never did see me. When they was gone we went back to the wagons just as
the regiment was pulling out and the officer didn't say nothing.

They was eleven negro boys served in my regiment for their masters. The first year was mighty
hard because we couldn't get enough to eat. Some ate poke greens without no grease and took
down and died.

How I knowed I was free, we was bad licked, I reckon. Anyways, we quit fighting and a Federal
soldier come up to my wagon and say: "Whose mules?" "Abe Stover's mules," I says, and he tells
me then, "Let me tell you, black boy, you are as free now as old Abe Stover his own self!"
When he said that I jumped on top of one of them mules' back before I knowed anything!

I married Sarah Richardson, February 10, 1870, and had only eleven children. One son is a deacon
and one grandson is a preacher. I am a good Baptist. Before I was married I said to the gal's
old man, "I'll go to the mourners bench if you'll let me have Sal," and sure nuff I joined
up just a month after I got her. I am head of the Sunday School and deacon in the St. Paul
Baptist church in Muskogee now.

I lived about five miles from Van Buren until about twelve years ago when they found oil and
then they run all the negroes out and leased up the land. They never did treat the negroes
good around there anyways.

I never had a hard time as a slave, but I'm glad we was set free. Sometimes we can't figger
out the best thing to do, but anyways we can lead our own life now, and I'm glad the young
ones can learn and get somewhere these days. Oklahoma City, Okla.

I was born in Danville, Illinois. De best I can get at my age I is 84 years old. My father
dey tell me was name Dennis Lawson and died before I was born. My mother's name was Ann Lawson,
who I saw once. I was given by her to my Mistress, Mrs. Jane Brazier, when a kid and she was
too. My mother raised me, she and her son to manhood. I got no brothers or sisters to my knowledge.
I was de only slave dey had and dey raised me to be humble and fear dem as a slave and servant.
As I was de only slave I slept in de same room wid my Mistress and her son who was grown, her
husband and father being dead.

I worked on the farm doing general farm work, hoeing, plowing, harvesting the crop of wheat,
corn, barley, oats, rice, peas, etc. To make and harvest the crops dey would hire poor white
help and as dey was grown and I was a lad, dey kept me in a strain in order to keep up wid
dem for if I didn't it was just too bad for my back. So's dere would be work for me to do during
the bad days of winter dey built a pen under a shed and dey would lay a cloth on de ground
covering the ground in the pen and wid small mesh wire on top of de pen on which de wheat was
laid and wid a wooden maul I would pounder out wheat all day long, even though dey could have
thrashed it as dey did de biggest part of it.

At meal time dey would give me what was left of de scraps off dey table in a plate, which I
would eat most de time on de back porch in warm weather and in de kitchen in winter.

For summer I wore a lowell shirt and for winter I wore de same old lowell shirt only wid outing
slips and a pair of brogan shoes or a pair of old shoes dat was thrown away by my Mistress' son.

Their house was a 3-room log house unpainted, wid only one bed room and a dining room and kitchen.

The plantation had 'bout 160 acres and was worked by my Mistress' son and myself plus poor
white hired help, my being de only slave.

I was treated most harshly 'mongst a group of just white people and who seemed to think me
de old work ox for all de hardest work. De nearest other Negro slaves were 'bout 15 or 20 miles
from me.

When I was grown I ran away one night and walked and rode de rods under stage coaches to Paducah,
Kentucky. I got me a job and worked as a roustabout on a boat where I learned to gamble wid
dice. I fought and gambled all up and down de Mississippi River, and in de course of time I
had 'bout $3,000, but I lost it.

I don't know de month or de year I was born in but I can 'member de sinking of de biggest circus
show in de Mississippi River at Mobile, Alabama when I was 10 to 14 years old, I ain't sure which.

There wasn't no children for me to play with and it seem like I never was a child but was just
always a man. I wasn't never told dat I was free, and I didn't know nothing 'bout de War much
dat brought my freedom. Dey kept all of dat away from me and I couldn't read or write so I
didn't know.

I've been married only once. My wife is 54 years old, and her name is Hattie Lawson. We have
no children. Since we married after freedom there wasn't nothing unusual at our wedding. Tulsa,
Oklahoma.

My slavery days wasn't like most people tell you about, 'cause I was give to my young Mistress
and sent away to Texas when I was jest a little girl, and I didn't live on a big plantation
a very long tine.

I got an old family Bible what say I was born on September 20, in 1846, but I don't know who
put de writing in it unless it was my mammy's mistress. My mammy had de book when she die.

My mammy come out to the Indian country from Mississippi two years before I was born. She was
the slave of a Chickasaw part-breed name Sobe Love. He was the kinsfolks of Mr. Benjamin Love,
and Mr. Henry Love what bring two big bunches of the Chickasaws out from Mississippi to the
Choctaw country when the Chickasaws sign up de treaty to leave Mississippi, and the whole Love
family settle 'round on the Red River below Fort Washita. There whar I was born.

My mammy say dey have a terrible hard time again the sickness when they first come out into
that country, because it was low and swampy and all full of cane brakes, and everybody have
the smallpox and the malaria and fever all the time. Lots of the Chickasaw families nearly
died off.

Old Sobe Love marry her off to a slave named William, what belong to a full-blood Chickasaw
man name Chick-a-lathe, and I was one of de children.

De children belong to the owner of the mother, and me and my brother Franklin, what we called
"Bruner", was born under the name of Love and then old Master Sobe bought my pappy William,
and we was all Love slaves then. My mammy had two more girls, name Hatty and Rena.

My mammy name was Mary, and I was named after her. Old Mistress name was Lottie, and they had
a daughter name Mary. Old Master Sobe was powerful rich, and he had about a hundred slaves
and four or five big pieces of that bottom land broke out for farms. He had niggers on all
the places, but didn't have no overseers, jest hisself and he went around and seen that everybody
behave and do they work right.

Old Master Sobe was a mighty big man in the tribe, and so was all his kinfolks, and they went
to Fort Washita and to Boggy Depot all the time on business, and leave the Negroes to look
after old Mistress and the young daughter. She was almost grown along about that time, when
I can first remember about things.

'Cause my name was Mary, and so was my mammy's and my young Mistress' too. Old Master Sobe
called me Mary-Ka-Chubbe to show which Mary he was talking about.

Miss Mary have a black woman name Vici what wait on her all the time, and do the carding and
spinning and cooking 'round the house, and Vici belong to Miss Mary. I never did go 'round
the Big House, but jest stayed in the quarters with my mammy and pappy and helped in the field
a little.

Then one day Miss Mary run off with a man and married him, and old Master Sobe nearly went
crazy! The man was name Bill Merrick, and he was a poor blacksmith and didn't have two pair
of britches to his name, and old Master Sobe said he jest stole Miss Mary 'cause she was rich,
and no other reason. 'Cause he was a white man and she was mostly Chickasaw Indian.

Anyways old Master Sobe wouldn't even speak to Mr. Bill, and wouldn't let him set foot on the
place. He jest reared and pitched around, and threatened to shoot him if he set eyes on him,
and Mr. Bill took Miss Mary and left out for Texas. He set up a blacksmith shop on the big
road between Bonham and Honey Grove, and lived there until he died.

Miss Mary done took Vici along with her, and pretty soon she come back home and stay a while,
and old Master Sobe kind of soften up a little bit and give her some money to git started on,
and he give her me too.

Dat jest nearly broke my old mammy's and pappy's heart, to have me took away off from them,
but they couldn't say nothing and I had to go along with Miss Mary back to Texas. When we git
away from the Big House I jest cried and cried until I couldn't hardly see, my eyes was so
swole up, but Miss Mary said she gwine to be good to me.

I ask her how come Master Sobe didn't give her some of the grown boys and she say she reckon
it because he didn't want to help her husband out none, but jest wanted to help her. If he
give her a man her husband have him working in the blacksmith shop, she reckon.

Master Bill Merrick was a hard worker, and he was more sober than most the men in them days,
and he never tell me to do nothing. He jest let Miss Mary tell me what to do. They have a log
house close to the shop, and a little patch of a field at first, but after awhile he git more
land, and then Miss Mary tell me and Vici we got to help in the field too.

That sho' was hard living then! I have to git up at three o'clock sometimes so I have time
to water the hosses and slop the hogs and feed the chickens and milk the cows, and then git
back to the house and git the breakfast. That was during the times when Miss Mary was having
and nursing her two children, and old Vici had to stay with her all the time. Master Bill never
did do none of that kind of work, but he had to be in the shop sometimes until way late in
the night, and sometimes before daylight, to shoe peoples hosses and oxen and fix wagons.

He never did tell me to do that work, but he never done it his own self and I had to do it
if anybody do it.

He was the slowest one white man I ever did see. He jest move 'round like de dead lice falling
off'n him all the time, and everytime he go to say anything he talk so slow that when he say
one word you could walk from here to way over there before he say de next word. He don't look
sick, and he was powerful strong in his arms, but he act like he don't feel good jest the same.

I remember when the War come. Mostly by the people passing 'long the big road, we heard about
it. First they was a lot of wagons hauling farm stuff into town to sell, and then purty soon
they was soldiers on the wagons, and they was coming out into the country to git the stuff
and buying it right at the place they find it.

Then purty soon they commence to be little bunches of mens in soldier clothes riding up and
down the road going somewhar. They seem like they was mostly young boys like, and they jest
laughing and jollying and going on like they was on a picnic.

Then the soldiers come 'round and got a lot of the white men and took them off to the War even
iffen they didn't want to go. Master Bill never did want to go, 'cause he had his wife and
two little children, and anyways he was gitting all the work he could do fixing wagons and
shoeing hosses, with all the traffic on de road at that time. Master Bill had jest two hosses,
for him and his wife to ride and to work to the buggy, and he had one old yoke of oxen and
some more cattle. He got some kind of a paper in town and he kept it with him all the time,
and when the soldiers would come to git his hosses or his cattle he would jest draw that paper
on 'em and they let 'em alone.

By and by the people got so thick on the big road that they was somebody in sight all the time.
They jest keep a dust kicked up all day and all night 'cepting when it rain, and they git all
bogged down and be strung all up and down the road camping. They kept Master Bill in the shop
all the time, fixing the things they bust trying to git the wagons out'n the mud. They was
whole families of them, with they children and they slaves along, and they was coming in from
every place because the Yankees was gitting in their part of the country, they say.

We all git mighty scared about the Yankees coming but I don't reckon they ever git thar, 'cause
I never seen none, and we was right on the big road and we would of seen them. They was a whole
lot more soldiers in them brown looking jeans, round-about jackets and cotton britches a-faunching
up and down the road on their hosses, though. Them hoss soldiers would come b'iling by, going
east, all day and night, and the two-three days later on they would all come tearing by going
west! Dey acted like dey didn't know whar dey gwine, but I reckon dey did.

Den Master Bill git sick. I reckon he more wore out and worried than anything else, but he
go down with de fever one day and it raining so hard Mistress and me and Vici can't neither
one go nowhar to git no help.

We puts peach tree poultices on his head and wash him off all the time, until it quit raining
so Mistress can go out on de road, and then a doctor man come from one of the bunches of soldiers
and see Master Bill. He say he going be all right and jest keep him quiet, and go on.

Mistress have to tend de children and Vici have to take care of Master Bill and look after
the house, and dat leave me all by myself wid all the rest of everything around the place.

I got to feed all the stock and milk the cows and work in the field too. Dat the first time
I ever try to plow, and I nearly git killed, too! I got me a young yoke of oxens I broke to
pull the wagon, 'cause Vici have to use the old oxens to work the field. I had to take the
wagon and go 'bout ten miles west to a patch of woods Master Bill owned to git fire wood, 'cause
we lived right on a flat patch of prairie, and I had to chop and haul the wood by myself. I
had to git postoak to burn in the kitchen fireplace and willow for Master Bill to make charcoal
out of to burn in his blacksmith fire.

Well, I hitch up them young oxen to the plow and they won't follow the row, and so I go git
the old oxens. One of them old oxens didn't know me and took in after me, and I couldn't hitch
'em up. And then it begins to rain again.

After the rain was quit I git the bucket and go milk the cows, and it is time to water the
hosses too, so I starts to the house with the milk and leading one of the hosses. When I gits
to the gate I drops the halter across my arm and hooks the bucket of milk on my arm too, and
starts to open the gate. The wind blow the gate wide open, and it slap the hoss on the flank.
That was when I nearly git killed!

Out the hoss go through the gate to the yard, and down the big road, and my arm all tangled
up in the halter rope and me dragging on the ground!

The first jump knock the wind out of me and I can't git loose, and that hoss drag me down the
road on the run until he meet up with a passel of soldiers and they stop him.

The next thing I knowed I was laying on the back kitchen gallery, and some soldiers was pouring
water on me with a bucket. My arm was broke, and I was stove up so bad that I have to lay down
for a whole week, and Mistress and Vici have to do all the work.

Jest as I gitting able to walk 'round here come some soldiers and say they come to git Master
Bill for the War. He still in the bed sick, and so they leave a parole paper for him to stay
until he git well, and then he got to go into Bonham and go with the soldiers to blacksmith
for them that got the cannons, the man said.

Mistress take on and cry and hold onto the man's coat and beg, but it don't do no good. She
say they don't belong in Texas but they belong in the Chickasaw Nation, but he say that don't
do no good, 'cause they living in Texas now.

Master Bill jest stew and fret so, one night he fever git way up and he go off into a kind
of a sleep and about morning he died.

My broke arm begin to swell up and hurt me, and I git sick with it again, and Mistress git
another doctor to come look at it.

He say I got bad blood from it how come I git so sick, and he git out his knife out'n his satchel
and bleed me in the other arm. The next day he come back and bleed me again two times, and
the next day one more time, and then I git so sick I puke and he quit bleeding me.

While I still sick Mistress pick up and go off to the Territory to her pappy and leave the
children thar for Vici and me to look after. After while she come home for a day or two and
go off again somewhere else. Then the next time she come home she say they been having big
battles in the Territory and her pappy moved all his stuff down on the river, and she home
to stay now.

We git along the best we can for a whole winter, but we nearly starve to death, and then the
next spring when we getting a little patch planted Mistress go into Bonham and come back and
say we all free and the War over.

She say, "You and Vici jest as free as I am, and a lot freer, I reckon, and they say I got
to pay you if you work for me, but I ain't got no money to pay you. If you stay on with me
and help me I will feed and home you and I can weave you some good dresses if you card and
spin the cotton and wool."

Well, I stayed on, 'cause I didn't have no place to go, and I carded and spinned the cotton
and wool and she make me just one dress. Vici didn't do nothing but jest wait on the children
and Mistress.

Mistress go off again about a week, and when she come back I see she got some money, but she
didn't give us any of it.

After while I asked her ain't she got some money for me, and she say no, ain't she giving me
a good home? Den I starts to feeling like I aint treated right.

Every evening I git done with the work and go out in the back yard and jest stand and look
off to the west towards Bonham, and wish I was at that place or some other place.

Den along come a nigger boy and say he working for a family in Bonham and he git a dollar every
week. He say Mistress got some kinfolks in Bonham and some of Master Sobe Love's niggers living
close to there.

So one night I jest put that new dress in a bundle and set foot right down the big road a-walking
west, and don't say nothing to nobody!

Its ten miles into Bonham, and I gits in town about daylight. I keeps on being afraid, 'cause
I con't git it out'n my mind I still belong to Mistress.

Purty soon some niggers tells me a nigger name Bruner Love living down west of Greenville,
and I know that my brother Franklin, 'cause we all called him Bruner. I don't remember how
all I gits down to Greenville, but I know I walks most the way, and I finds Bruner. Him and
his wife working on a farm, and they say my sister Hetty and my sister Rena what was little
is living with my mammy way back up on the Red River. My pappy done died in time of the War
and I didn't know it.

Bruner taken me in a wagon and we went to my mammy, and I lived with her until she died and
Hetty was married. Then I married a boy name Henry Lindsay. His people was from Georgia and
he live with them way west at Cedar Mills, Texas. That was right close to Gordonville, on the
Red River.

We live at Cedar Mills until three my children was born and then we come to the Creek Nation
in 1887. My last one was born here.

My oldest is named Georgia on account of her pappy. He was born in Georgia and that was in
1838, so his whitefolks got a book that say. My next child was Henry. We called him William
Henry, after my pappy and his pappy. Then come Donie, and after we come here we had Madison,
my youngest boy.

I lives with Henry here on this little place we got in Tulsa.

When we first come here we got some land for $15 an acre from the Creek Nation, but our papers
said we can only stay as long as it is the Creek Nation. Then in 1901 comes the allotments,
and we found out our land belong to a Creek Indian, and we have to pay him to let us stay on
it. After while he makes us move off and we lose out all around.

But my daughter Donie git a little lot, and we trade it for this place about thirty year ago,
when this town was a little place.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves

MRS. MATTIE LOGAN Age 79 yrs. Route 5, West Tulsa, Oklahoma.

This is a mighty fitting time to be telling about the slave days, for I'm just finished up
celebrating my seventy-nine years of being around and the first part of my life was spent on
the old John B. Lewis plantation down in old Mississippi.

Yes, sir! my birthday is just over. September 1 it was and the year was 1858. Borned on the
John B. Lewis plantation just ten mile south of Jackson in the Mississippi country. Rankin
County it was.

My mother's name was Lucinda, and father's name was Levi Miles. My mother was part Indian,
for her mother was a half-blood Cherokee Indian from Virginia.

There was children a-plenty besides me. There was Sally, Julia, Hubbard, Ada, Ira, Anthony,
Henry, Amanda, Mary, John, Lucinda, Daniel and me, Mattie. That was my family.

The master's family was a large one, too. Six children was born to the Master and Mistress.
Her name, his first wife, was Jennie, the second and last was named, Louise. The children was,
Rebecca, Mollie, Jennie, Susie, Silas, and Begerlan. They kind of leaned to females.

My mother belonged to Mistress Jennie who thought a heap of her, and why shouldn't she? Mother
nursed all Miss Jennie's children because all of her young ones and my mammy's was born so
close together it wasn't no trouble at all for mammy to raise the whole kaboodle of them. I
was born about the same time as the baby Jennie. They say I nursed on one breast while that
white child, Jennie, pulled away at the other!

That was a pretty good idea for the Mistress, for it didn't keep her tied to the place and
she could visit around with her friends most any time she wanted 'thout having to worry if
the babies would be fed or not.

Mammy was the house girl and account of that and because her family was so large, the Mistress
fixed up a two room cabin right back of the Big House and that's where we lived. The cabin
had a fireplace in one of the rooms, just like the rest of the slave cabins which was set in
a row away from the Big House. In one room was bunk beds, just plain old two-by-fours with
holes bored through the plank so's ropes could be fastened in and across for to hold the corn-shuck
mattress.

My brothers and sisters was allowed to play with the Master's children, but not with the children
who belonged to the field Negroes. We just played yard games like marbles and tossing a ball.
I don't rightly remember much about games, for there wasn't too much fun in them days even
if we did get raised with the Master's family. We wasn't allowed to learn any reading or writing.
They say if they catched a slave learning them things they'd pull his finger nails off! I never
saw that done, though.

Each slave cabin had a stone fireplace in the end, just like ours, and over the flames at daybreak
was prepared the morning meal. That was the only meal the field negroes had to cook.

All the other meals was fixed up by an old man and woman who was too old for field trucking.
The peas, the beans, the turnips, the potatoes, all seasoned up with fat meats and sometimes
a ham bone, was cooked in a big iron kettle and when meal time come they all gathered around
the pot for a-plenty of helpings! Corn bread and buttermilk made up the rest of the meal.

Ten or fifteen hogs was butchered every fall and the slaves would get the skins and maybe a
ham bone. That was all, except what was mixed in with the stews. Flour was given out every
Sunday morning and if a family run out of that before the next week, well, they was just out
that's all!

The slaves got small amounts of vegetables from the plantation garden, but they didn't have
any gardens of their own. Everybody took what old Master rationed out.

Once in a while we had rabbits and fish, but the best dish of all was the 'possum and sweet
potatoes--baked together over red-hot coals in the fireplace. Now, that was something to eat!

The Lewis plantation was about three hundred acres, with usually fifty slaves working on the
place. Master Lewis was a trader. He couldn't sell of our family, for we belonged to Mistress
Jennie. Negro girls, the fat ones who was kinder pretty, was the most sold. Folks wanted them
pretty bad but the Mistress said there wasn't going to be any selling of the girls who was
mammy's children.

There was no overseer on our place, just the old Master who did all the bossing. He wasn't
too mean, but I've seen him whip Old John. I'd run in the house to get away from the sight,
but I could still hear Old John yelling, 'Pray, Master! Oh! Pray, Master!', but I guess that
there was more howling than there was hurting at that.

My uncle Ed Miles run away to the North and joined with Yankees during the War. He was lucky
to get away, for lots of them who tried it was ketched up by the patrollers. I seen some of
them once. They had chains fastened around their legs, fastened short, too, just long enough
to take a short step. No more running away with them chains anchoring the feets!

There wasn't any negro churches close by our plantation. All the slaves who wanted religion
was allowed to join the Methodist church because that was the Mistress' church.

A doctor was called in when the slaves would get sick. He'd give pills for most all the ailments,
but once in a while, like when the children would get the whooping cough, some old negro would
try to cure them with home made remedies.

The whooping cough cure was by using a land turtle. Cut off his head and drain the blood into
a cup. Then take a lump of sugar and dip in the blood, eat the sugar and the coughing was supposed
to stop. If it did or not I don't know.

And that makes me think about another cure they use to tell about. A cure for mean overseers.
And I don't mean kill, just scare him, that's all. They say the cure was tried on an overseer
who worked for Silas Stien, who was a slave owner living close by the Lewis plantation.

It seems like this overseer was of the meanest kind, always whipping the slaves for no reason
at all, and the slaves tried to figure out a way to even up with him by chasing him off the place.

One of the slaves told how to cure him. Get a King snake and put the snake in the overseer's
cabin. Slip the snake in about, no, not about, but just exactly nine o'clock at night. Seems
like the time was important, why so, I don't remember now.

That's what the slaves did. Put in the snake and out went the overseer. Never no more did he
whip the slaves on that plantation because he wasn't working there no more! When he went, when
he went, or how he went nobody knows, but they all say he went. That's what counted--he was gone!

The Yankees didn't come around our plantation during the war. All we heard was, 'They'll kill
all the slaves,' and such hearing was a-plenty!

After the war some man come to the plantation and told the field negroes they was free. But
he didn't know about the cabin we lived in and didn't tell my folks nothing about it. They
learned about the freedom from the old Master.

That was some days after the man left the place. The Master called my mother and father into
the Big House and told them they was free. Free like him. But he didn't want my folks to leave
and they stayed, stayed there three year after they was free to go anywhere they wanted.

The master paid them $200 a month to work for him and that wasn't so much if you stop to figure
there was two grown folks and thirteen children who could do plenty of work around the place.

But that money paid for an 80-acre farm my folks bought not far from the old plantation and
they moved onto it three year after the freedom come.

I think Lincoln was a mighty good man, and I think Roosevelt is trying to carry some of the
good ideas Lincoln had. Lincoln would have done a heap more if he had lived.

The young negroes who are living now are selfish and shiftless. They're not worth two cents
and don't have the respect for other folks to get along right. That's what I think.

I been married three times, but no children did I have. The first man was Frank Morris, the
next was Jim White, and the last was John Logan. All gone. Dead.

From Mississippi I come to Idabel, Oklahoma, in 1909, two year after statehood. I moved to
Muskogee in 1910, staying there while the times was good and coming to Tulsa some years ago.

I'm pretty old and can't work hard anymore, but I manage to get along. I'm glad to be free
and I don't believe I could stand them slavery days now at all.

I'm my own boss, get up when I want, go to bed the same way. Nobody to say this or that about
what I do.

Yes, I'm glad to be free! That was a sorry time for some poor black folks but I guess Master
Frank Colbert's niggers was about as well off as the best of 'em. I can recollect things that
happened way back better than I can things that happen now. Funny ain't it?

Frank Colbert, a full blood Choctaw Indian, was my owner. He owned my mother but I don't remember
much about my father. He died when I was a little youngun. My Mistress' name was Julie Colbert.
She and Master Frank was de best folks that ever lived. All the niggers loved Master Frank
and knowed jest what he wanted done and they tried their best to do it, too.

I married Isom Love, a slave of Sam Love, another full-blood Indian that lived on a jining
farm. We lived on Master Frank's farm and Isom went back and forth to work fer his master and
I worked ever day fer mine. I don't 'spect we could of done that way iffen we hadn't of had
Indian masters. They let us do a lot like we pleased jest so we got our work done and didn't
run off.

Old Master Frank never worked us hard and we had plenty of good food to eat. He never did like
to put us under white overseers and never tried it but once. A white man come through here
and stopped overnight. He looked 'round the farm and told Master Frank that he wasn't gitting
half what he ought to out of his rich land. He said he could take his bunch of hands and double
his amount of corn and cotton.

Master Frank told him that he never used white overseers, that he had one nigger that bossed
around some when he didn't do it hisself. He also told the white man that he had one nigger
named Bill that was kind of bad, that he was a good worker but he didn't like to be bothered
as he liked to do his own work in his own way. The white boss told him he wouldn't have any
trouble and that he could handle him all right.

Old Master hired him and things went very well for a few days. He hadn't said anything to Bill
and they had got along fine. I guess the new boss got to thinking it was time for him to take
Bill in hand so one morning he told him to hitch up another team before he caught his own team
to go to work.

Uncle Bill told him that he didn't have time, that he had a lot of plowing to git done that
morning and besides it was customary for every man to catch his own team. Of course this made
the overseer mad and he grabbed a stick and started cussing and run at Uncle Bill. Old Bill
grabbed a single-tree and went meeting him. Dat white man all on a sudden turned 'round and
run fer dear life and I tell you, he fairly bust old Red River wide open gitting away from
there and nobody never did see hide nor hair of him 'round to this day.

Master Colbert run a stage stand and a ferry on Red River and he didn't have much time to look
after his farm and his niggers. He had lots of land and lots of slaves. His house was a big
log house, three rooms on one side and three on the other, and there was a big open hall between
them. There was a big gallery clean across the front of the house. Behind the house was the
kitchen and the smokehouse. The smokehouse was always filled with plenty of good meat and lard.
They would kill the polecat and dress it and take a sharp stick and run it up their back jest
under the flesh. They would also run one up each leg and then turn him on his back and put
him on top of the house and let him freeze all night. The next morning they'd pull the sticks
out and all the scent would be on them sticks and the cat wouldn't smell at all. They'd cook
it like they did possum, bake it with taters or make dumplings.

We had plenty of salt. We got that from Grand Saline. Our coffee was made from parched meal
or wheat bran. We made it from dried sweet potatoes that had been parched, too.

One of our choicest dishes was "Tom Pashofa", an Indian dish. We'd take corn and beat it in
a mortar with a pestle. They took out the husks with a riddle and a fanner. The riddle was
a kind of a sifter. When it was beat fine enough to go through the riddle we'd put it in a
pot and cook it with fresh pork or beef. We cooked our bread in a Dutch oven or in the ashes.

When we got sick we would take butterfly root and life-everlasting and boil it and made a syrup
and take it for colds. Balmony and queen's delight boiled and mixed would make good blood medicine.

The slaves lived in log cabins scattered back of the house. He wasn't afraid they'd run off.
They didn't know as much as the slaves in the states, I reckon. But Master Frank had a half
brother that was as mean as he was good. I believe he was the meanest man the sun ever shined
on. His name was Buck Colbert and he claimed he was a patroller. He was sho' bad to whup niggers.
He'd stop a nigger and ask him if he had a pass and even if they did he'd read it and tell
them they had stayed over time and he'd beat 'em most to death. He'd say they didn't have any
business off the farm and to git back there and stay there.

One time he got mad at his baby's nurse because she couldn't git the baby to stop crying and
he hit her on the head with some fire-tongs and she died. His wife got sick and she sent for
me to come and take care of her baby. I sho' didn't want to go and I begged so hard for them
not to make me that they sent an older woman who had a baby of her own so she could nurse the
baby if necessary.

In the night the baby woke up and got to crying and Master Buck called the woman and told her
to git him quiet. She was sleepy and was sort of slow and this made Buck mad and he made her
strip her clothes off to her waist and he began to whip her. His wife tried to git him to quit
and he told her he'd beat her iffen she didn't shut up. Sick as as she was she slipped off
and went to Master Frank's and woke him up and got him to go and make Buck quit whipping her.
He had beat her so that she was cut up so bad she couldn't nurse her own baby any more.

Master Buck kept on being bad till one day he got mad at one of his own brothers and killed
him. This made another one of his brothers mad and he went to his house and killed him. Everybody
was glad that Buck was dead.

We had lots of visitors. They'd stop at the stage inn that we kept. One morning I was cleaning
the rooms and I found a piece of money in the bed where two men had slept. I thought it was
a dime and I showed it to my mammy and she told me it was a five dollar piece. I sho' was happy
fer I had been wanting some hoops fer my skirts like Misstress had so Mammy said she would
keep my money 'til I could send fer the hoops. My brother got my money from my mammy and I
didn't git my hoops fer a long time. Miss Julie give me some later.

When me and my husband got married we built us a log cabin about half-way from Master Frank's
house and Master Sam Love's house. I would go to work at Master Frank's and Isom would go to
work at Mister Sam's. One day I was at home with jest my baby and a runner come by and said
the Yankee soldiers was coming. I looked 'round and I knowed they would git my chickens. I
had 'em in a pen right close to the house to keep the varmints from gitting 'em so I decided
to take up the boards in the floor and put 'em in there as the wall logs come to the ground
and they couldn't git out. By the time I got my chickens under the floor and the house locked
tight the soldiers had got so close I could hear their bugles blowing so I jest fairly flew
over to old Master's house. Them Yankees clumb down the chimbley and got every one of my chickens
and they killed about fifteen of Master Frank's hogs. He went down to their camp and told the
captain about it and he paid him for his hogs and sent me some money for my chickens.

We went to church all the time. We had both white and colored preachers. Master Frank wasn't
a Christian but he would help build brush-arbors fer us to have church under and we sho' would
have big meetings I'll tell you.

One day Master Frank was going through the woods close to where niggers was having church.
All on a sudden he started running and beating hisself and hollering and the niggers all went
to shouting and saying "Thank the Lawd, Master Frank has done come through!" Master Frank after
a minute say, "Yes, through the worst of 'em." He had run into a yellow jacket's nest.

One night my old man's master sent him to Sherman, Texas. He aimed to come back that night
so I stayed at home with jest my baby. It went to sleep so I set down on the steps to wait
and ever minute I thought I could hear Isom coming through the woods. All a sudden I heard
a scream that fairly made my hair stand up. My dog that was laying out in the yard give a low
growl and come and set down right by me. He kept growling real low.

Directly, right close to the house I heard that scream again. It sounded like a woman in mortal
misery. I run into the house and made the dog stay outside. I locked the door and then thought
what must I do. Supposing Isom did come home now and should meet that awful thing? I heard
it again. It wasn't more'n a hundred yards from the house. The dog scratched on the door but
I dassent open it to let him in. I knowed by this time that it was a panther screaming. I turned
my table over and put it against the opening of the fireplace. I didn't aim fer that thing
to come down the chimbley and git us.

Purty soon I heard it again a little mite further away--it was going on by. I heard a gun fire.
Thank God, I said, somebody else heard it and was shooting at it. I set there on the side of
my bed fer the rest of the night with my baby in my arms and praying that Isom wouldn't come
home. He didn't come till about nine o'clock the next morning and I was that glad to see him
that I jest cried and cried.

I ain't never seen many sperits but I've seen a few. One day I was laying on my bed here by
myself. My son Ed was cutting wood. I'd been awful sick and I was powerful weak. I heard somebody
walking real light like they was barefooted. I said, "Who's dat?"

He catch hold of my hand and he has the littlest hand I ever seen, and he say, "You been mighty
sick and I want you to come and go with me to Sherman to see a doctor."

I say, "I ain't got nobody at Sherman what knows me."

He say, "You'd better come and go with me anyway."

I jest lay there fer a minute and didn't say nothing and purty soon he say, "Have you got any
water?"

I told him the water was on the porch and he got up and went outside and I set in to calling
Ed. He come hurrying and I asked him why he didn't lock the door when he went out and I told
him to go see if he could see the little man and find out what he wanted. He went out and looked
everywhere but he couldn't find him nor he couldn't even find his tracks.

I always keep a butcher-knife near me but it was between the mattress and the feather bed and
I couldn't get to it. I don't guess it would have done any good though fer I guess it was jest
a sperit.

The funniest thing that ever happened to me was when I was a real young gal. Master and Miss
Julie was going to see one of his sisters that was sick. I went along to take care of the baby
fer Miss Julie. The baby was about a year old. I had a bag of clothes and the baby to carry.
I was riding a pacing mule and it was plumb gentle. I was riding along behind Master Frank
and Miss Julie and I went to sleep. I lost the bag of clothes and never missed it. Purty soon
I let the baby slip out of my lap and I don't know how far I went before I nearly fell off
myself and jest think how I felt when I missed that baby! I turned around and went back and
found the baby setting in the trail sort of crying. He wasn't hurt a mite as he fell in the
grass. I got off the mule and picked him up and had to look fer a log so I could get back on again.

Jest as I got back on Master Frank rode up. He had missed me and come back to see what was
wrong. I told him that I had lost the bag of clothes but I didn't say anything about losing
the baby. We never did find the clothes and I sho' kept awake the rest of the way. I wasn't
going to risk losing that precious baby again! I guess the reason he didn't cry much was because
he was a Indian baby. He was sho' a sweet baby though.

Jest before the War people would come through the Territory stealing niggers and selling 'em
in the states. Us women dassent git fur from the house. We wouldn't even go to the spring if
we happened to see a strange wagon or horsebacker. One of Master Sam Love's women was stole
and sold down in Texas. After freedom she made her way back to her fambly. Master Frank sent
one of my brothers to Sherman on an errand. After several days the mule come back but we never
did see my brother again. We didn't know whether he run off or was stole and sold.

I was glad to be free. What did I do and say? Well, I jest clapped my hands together and said,
"Thank God Almighty, I'se free at last!"

I live on the forty acres that the government give me. I have been blind for nine years and
don't git off my bed much. I live here with my son, Ed. Isom has been dead for over forty years.
I had fifteen children, but only ten of them are living.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves

DANIEL WILLIAM LUCAS Age 94 yrs. Red Bird, Okla.

I remember them slave days well as it was yesterday, and when I get to remembering the very
first thing comes back to me is the little log cabin where at I lived when I was a slave boy
back 'fore the War.

Just like yesterday--I see that little old cabin standing on a bit of hill about a quarter-mile
from the Master's brick mansion, and I see into the cabin and there's the old home-made bed
with rope cords a-holding up the corn shuck bedding where on I use to sleep after putting in
the day at hoeing cotton or following a slow time mule team down the corn rows 'till it got
so dark the old overseer just naturally had to call it a day.

And then I see the old baker swinging in the fireplace. That cooked up the corn pone to go
with the fat side meats the Master Doctor (didn't I tell you the Master was a doctor?) give
us for the meals of the week day. But on a Sunday morning we always had flour bread, excepting
after the War is over and then we is lucky do we get anything.

Just like yesterday--I hear the old overseer making round of the cabins every day at four,
and I means in the morning, too, when the night sleep is the best, and the folkses tumbling
out of the door getting ready for the fields.

All the mens dressed about the same. Just like me. Wearing the grey jeans with the blue shirt
stuck in loose around the belt, brogan shoes that feels like brakes on the feet about the hot
time of day when the old sun's a-grinning down like he was saying: "work, niggers, work!" And
the overseer is saying the same thing, only we pays more attention to him 'cause of the whip
he shakes around when the going gets kinder slow down the row.

Now I sees them getting ready for the slave auction. Many of 'em there was. The Master Doctor
done owned about two hundred slaves and sometimes he sell some for to beat the bad crops.

There they'd stand on the wooden blocks, their faces greased and shiny, their arms and bodies
pretty well greased too; seemed like they looked better and stronger that way, maybe some other
reason, I dunno. And when the auction was over lots of the slaves would try to figger out when
would the next one be and worry some afraid they'd be standing up there waiting for the buyers
to punch and slap to see is they sound of limb and able to do the days work without loafing
down the rows.

There's the old white preacher who tried to tell the slaves about the Lord. He had a mighty
hard job sometimes, 'cause of the teaching was hard to understand. And then--then he'd just
seem to be riled with anger and lay down the law of the Lord between cuss-words that all the
slaves could understand. So finally I guess everybody was religionized even it was cussed into
'em right from the pulpit!

That old preacher always makes me think of haunts, 'cause every evening when I drive up the
cows for milking, there's a old, old log cabin right on the way that I pass every night--and
it's so haunted won't nobody pass it after the darkness covers in the daylight.

I didn't always get by 'fore then, and the sounds I hear! Like they was people inside jumping
and knocking on the floor, maybe they was dancing, I dunno. But they was a light in the big
room. Wasn't the moon a-shining through the windows either, 'cause sometimes I would stop at
the gate and say HELLO, then out go the light and the noises would stop quick, like them haunts
was a-scairt as me--and then, then I run like the old preacher's Devil is after me with all
his forks.

Then along come the War. The slaves would go around from cabin to cabin telling each other
about how mean and cruel was the master or the overseer, and maybe some of them would make
for the North. They was the unlucky ones, 'cause lots of times they was caught.

And when the patrollers get 'em caught, they was due for a heavy licking that would last for
a long time.

The slaves didn't know how to travel. The way would be marked when they'd start North, but
somehow they'd get lost, 'cause they didn't know one direction from another, they was so scairt.

Just like yesterday--I remember the close of the War. Nothing exciting about it down on the
plantation. Just the old overseer come around and say:

"The Yankees has whipped the Rebels and the War is over. But the Old Master don't want you
to leave. He just wants you to stay right on here where at is your home. That's what the Master
say is best for you to do."

That's what I do, but some of them other slaves is kinder filled up with the idea of freedom
and wants to find out is it good or bad, so they leave and scatter round.

But I stays, and the Master Doctor he pays me ten dollars every month, gives me board and my
sleeping place just like always, and when I gets sick there he is with the herb medicine for
my ailment and I is well again.

It's long after the War before I leaves the old place. And that's when I gets married in 1885.
That was my first licensed wife and we is married in Holly Springs. Her name was Josephine
and we has maybe eight-ten children, I dunno.

And I is thankful they ain't none of my children born slaves and have to remember all them
terrible days when we was ruled by the whip--like I remember it, just like it was yesterday.
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma

I'll be jest frank, I'm not for sho' when I was born, but it was in 1853. Don't know the month,
but I was sho' born in 1853 in Watson County, Tennessee. You see my father was owned by Master
Luster and my mother was owned by Masters Joe and Bill Asterns (father and son). I can remember
when Master Astern moved from Watson County, Tennessee he brought me and my mother with him
to Barnum County Seat, Texas. Master Astern owned about twelve slaves, and dey was all Astern
'cept Miriah Elmore's son Jim. He owned 'bout five or six hundred acres of ground, and de slaves
raised and shucked all de corn and picked all de cotton. De whites folks lived in a big double
log house and we slaves lived in log cabins. Our white folks fed us darkies! We ate nearly
ever'thing dey ate. Dey ate turkey, chickens, ducks, geese, fish and we killed beef, pork,
rabbits and deer. Yes, and possums too. And whenever we killed beef we tanned the hide and
dere was a white man who made shoes for de white folks and us darkies. I tell you I'm not gonna
lie, dem white folks was good to us darkies. We didn't have no mean overseer. Master Astern
and his son jest told us niggers what to do and we did it, but 50 miles away dem niggers had
a mean overseer, and dey called him "poor white trash", "old whooser", and sometime "old red
neck", and he would sho' beat 'em turrible iffen dey didn't do jest like he wanted 'em to.

Seem like I can hear dem "nigger hounds" barking now. You see whenever a darky would get a
permit to go off and wouldn't come back dey would put de "nigger hounds" on his trail and run
dat nigger down.

De white women wove and spin our clothes. You know dey had looms, spins, and weavers. Us darkies
would stay up all night sometime sep'rating cotton from the seed. When dem old darkies got
sleepy dey would prop their eyes open wid straws.

Sho', we wore very fine clothes for dem days. You know dey dyed the cloth with poke berries.

We cradled de wheat on pins, caught the grain, carried it to de mill and had it ground. Sho',
I ate biscuits and cornbread too. Keep telling you dat we ate.

We got de very best of care when we got sick. Don't you let nobody tell you dem white folks
tried to kill out dem darkies 'cause when a darkey took sick dey would send and git de very
best doctors round dat country. Dey would give us ice water when we got sick. You see we put
up ice in saw dust in winter and when a slave got sick dey give him ice water, sometimes sage
tea and chicken gruel. Dey wanted to keep dem darkies fat so dey could git top price for 'em.
I never saw a slave sold, but my half brother's white folks let him work and buy hisself.

I was about 14, and I milked the cows, packed water, seeded cotton, churned milk up at de Big
House and jest first one chore and den another. My mother cooked up at de Big House.

Dey was a lot of talk 'bout conjure but I didn't believe in it. Course dem darkies could do
everything to one another, and have one another scared, but dey couldn't conjure dat overseer
and stop him from beating 'em near to death. Course he didn't flog 'em till dey done sumping.

I married my woman, Nannie Wilkerson, 58 years ago. Dat was after slavery, and I love her,
honest to God I does. Course in dem days we didn't buy no license, we jest got permits from
old Master and jumped over a broom stick and jest got married.

I sho' did hate when de Yanks come 'cause our white folks was good to us, and jest take us
right along to church with 'em. We didn't work on Sad'days or Christmas.

We raised gardens, truck patches and such for spending change.

I sho' caught hell after dem Yanks come. Befo' de war, you see de patroller rode all nite but
wouldn't bother a darkey iffen he wouldn't run off. Why dem darkeys would run off I jest couldn't
see.

Dose Yanks treated old master and mistress so mean. Dey took all his hams, chickens, and drove
his cattle out of the pasture, but didn't bother us niggers honest. Dey drove old master Aster
off'n his own plantation and we all hid in de corn field.

My mother took me to Greenville, Texas, 'cause my step-pappy was one of dem half smart niggers
round dere trying to preach and de Ku Klux Klan beat him half to death.

Dere was some white folks who would take us to church wid 'em--dis dis [TR: sic] was aftah
the war now--and one night we was all sitting up thar and one old woman with one leg was dah
and when dem Klans shot in amongst us niggers and white folks aunt Mandy beat all of us home.
Yes suh.

My first two teachers was two white men, and dem Klans shot in de hotel what dey lived in,
but dey had school for us niggers jest de same. After dat, dose Klans got so bad Uncle Sam
sent soljers down dere to keep peace.

After de soljers come and run de Klans out we worked hard dat fall and made good crops. 'Bout
three years later I came to Indian Territory in search of educating my kids.

I landed here 46 years ago on a farm not far from now Oklahoma City. I got to be a prosperous
farmer. My bale of cotton amongst 5,000 bales won the blue ribbon at Guthrie, Oklahoma, and
dat bale of cotton and being a good democrat won for me a good job as a clerk on the Agriculture
Board at the State Capitol. All de white folks liked me and still like me and called me "cotton
king."

I have jest three chillun living. Walter is parcel post clerk here at de post office downtown.
Delia Jenkins, my daughter is a housewife and Cleo Luckett, my other daughter, a common laborer.

Have been a christian 20 years. Jest got sorry for my wicked ways. I am a member of the Church
of God. My wife is a member of the Church of Christ. I'm a good democrat and she is a good
republican.

My fav'rite songs is: "Dark Was the Nite, and Cold the Ground" and "Couldn't Hear Nobody Pray."

I'm glad slavery is over, but I don't think dem white folks was fighting to free us niggers.
God freed us. Of course, Abraham Lincoln was a pretty fine man. Don't know much about Jeff
Davis. Never seen him. Yes, and Booker T. Washington. He was one of the Negro leaders. The
first Negro to represent the Negroes in Washington. He was a great leader.

During slavery time never heerd of a cullud man committing 'sault on a white woman. The white
and cullud all went to church together too. Niggers and white shouted alike.

I remember some of the little games we played now: "Fox in the wall", "Mollie, Mollie Bride",
and "Hide and go seek." Oklahoma City, Okla.

I was born in Huntsville County, Alabama, right where the Scottsboro boys was in jail, in 1850.

My parents was Wash and Winnie McCray. They was the mother and father of 22 chillun. Jest five
lived to be grown and the rest died at baby age. My father's mother and father was named Mandy
and Peter McCray, and my mother's mother and father was Ruthie and Charlie McCray. They all
had the same Master, Mister McCray, all the way thoo'.

We live in log huts and when I left home grown, I left my folks living in the same log huts.
Beds was put together with ropes and called rope beds. No springs was ever heard of by white
or cullud as I knows of.

All the work I ever done was pick up chips for my grandma to cook with. I was kept busy doing
this all day.

The big boys went out and got rabbits, possums and fish. I would sho' lak to be in old Alabama
fishing, 'cause I am a fisherman. There is sho' some pretty water in Alabama and as swift as
cars run here. Water so clear and blue you can see the fish way down, and dey wouldn't bite
to save your life.

Slaves had their own gardens. All got Friday and Sadday to work in garden during garden time.
I liked cornbread best and I'd give a dollar to git some of the bread we had on those good
old days and I ain't joking. I went in shirt tail all the time. Never had on no pants 'til
I was 15 years old. No shoes, 'cept two or three winters. Never had a hat 'til I was a great
big boy.

Marriage was performed by getting permission from Master and go where the woman of your choice
had prepared the bed, undress and flat-footed jump a broom-stick together into the bed.

Master had a brick house for hisself and the overseer. They was the only ones on the place.
The overseer woke up the slaves all the way from 2 o'clock till 4 o'clock of mornings. He wasn't
nothing but white trash. Nothing else in the world but that. They worked till they couldn't
see how to work. I jest couldn't jedge the size of that big place, and there was a mess of
slaves, not less'n three hundred.

I doesn't have no eggycation, edgecation, or ejecation, and about all I can do is spell. I
jest spell till I get the pronouncements.

We had church, but iffen the white folks caught you at it, you was beat most nigh to death.
We used a big pot turned down to keep our voices down. When we went to hear white preachers,
he would say, "Obey your master and mistress." I am a hard shell-flint Baptist. I was baptised
in Pine Bluff, Arkansas. Our baptizing song was mostly "On Jordan's Stormy Banks I Stand" and
our funeral song was "Hark From The Tomb."

We had some slaves who would try to run off to the North but the white folks would catch 'em
with blood hounds and beat 'em to death. Them patrollers done their work mostly at night. One
night I was sleeping on cotton and the patrollers come to our house and ask for water. Happen
we had plenty. They drunk a whole lot and got warm and told my father to be a good nigger and
they wouldn't bother him at all. They raided till General Grant come thoo'. He sent troops
out looking for Klu Klux Klanners and killed 'em jest lak killing black birds. General Grant
was one of the men that caused us to set heah free today and able to talk together without
being killed.

I didn't and don't believe in no conjure. No sensible person do either. We had a doctor on
the place. Ever master had a doctor who waited on his slaves, but we wore asafetida or onion
'round our necks to keep off diseases. A dime was put 'round a teething baby's neck to make
it tooth easy, and it sho' helped too. But today all folks done got 'bove that.

The old folks talked very little of freedom and the chillun knew nothing at all of it, and
that they heard they was daresome to mention it.

Bushwhacker, nothing but poor white trash, come thoo' and killed all the little nigger chillun
they could lay hands on. I was hid under the house with a big rag on my mouf many a time. Them
Klu Klux after slavery sho' got enough from them soldiers to last 'em.

I was married to Kan Pry in 1884. Two chillun was born. The girl is living and the boy might
be, but I don't know. My daughter works out in service.

I wish Lincoln was here now. He done more for the black face than any one in that seat. Old
Jeff Davis kept slavery up till General Grant met him at the battle. Lincoln sho' snowed him
under. General Grant put fire under him jest lak I'm fixing to do my pipe. Booker T. Washington
was jest all right.

Every time I think of slavery and if it done the race any good, I think of the story of the
coon and dog who met. The coon said to the dog "Why is it you're so fat and I am so poor, and
we is both animals?" The dog said: "I lay round Master's house and let him kick me and he gives
me a piece of bread right on." Said the coon to the dog: "Better then that I stay poor." Them's
my sentiment. I'm lak the coon, I don't believe in 'buse.

I used to be the most wicked man in the world but a voice converted me by saying, "Friend,
friend, why is you better to everybody else than you is to your self? You are sending your
soul to hell." And from that day I lived like a Christian. People here don't live right and
I don't lak to 'tend church. I base my Christian life on: "Believe in me, trust my work and
you shall be saved, for I am God and beside me there is no other."

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves

HANNAH McFARLAND Age 85 yrs. Oklahoma City, Okla.

I was born in Georgetown, South Carolina, February 29, 1853. My father was name James Gainey
and my mother was name Katie Gainey. There was three chillun born to my folks doing slavery.
My father was a free man, but my mother was de slave of the Sampsons, some Jews. My father
was de richest Negro in South Carolina doing this time. He bought all three of we chillun for
$1,000 apiece, but dem Jews jest wouldn't sell mamma. Dey was mighty sweet to her. She come
home ever night and stayed with us. Doing the day a Virginian nigger woman stayed with us and
she sho' was mean to we chillun. She used to beat us sumpin' terrible. You know Virginia people
is mean to cullud people. My father bought her from some white folks too.

We lived in town and in a good house.

It was a good deal of confusion doing de War. I waited on the Yankees. Dey captured mamma's
white people's house. Dey tried to git mamma to tell dem jest whut de white folks done done
to her and all she could say was dey was good to her. Shucks, dey wouldn't sell her. She jest
told them she had a free husband.

My father was a blockader. He run rafts from one place to another and sho' made a lot of money.
He was drowned while doing this while I was a good size child.

Dem patrollers tied you to a whipping post iffen dey caught you out after 10 o'clock. They
'tempted to do my mother that way, but my papa sho' stopped dat. I can't say I lak white people
even now, 'cause dey done done so much agin us.

I was free, but I couldn't go to school, 'cause we didn't had none. I been in Oklahoma over
40 years. Have done some traveling and could go some whar else, but I jest stays here 'cause
I ain't got no desire to travel.

All we ever wore to keep off diseases was asafetida, nothing else.

I done heard more 'bout conjure in Oklahoma than I ever heerd in South Carolina. All dat stuff
is in Louisiana. I didn't heah nothing 'bout the Klu Klux Klan till I come to Oklahoma neither.
More devilment in Oklahoma than any place I know. South got more religion too. I jest as soon
be back with the Rebels.

Bushwhackers whipped you iffen you stayed out late, and sho' nuff if dey didn't lak you.

I felt sorry for Jeff Davis when the Yankees drilled him through the streets. I saw it all.
I said, "Mama, Mama, look, dey got old Jeff Davis." She said, "Be quiet, dey'll lynch you."
She didn't know no better! She was a old slave nigger. I showed the Yankees where the white
folks hid their silver and money and jewelry, and Mamma sho' whipped me about it too. She was
no fool 'bout slavery. Slavery sho' didn't he'p us none to my belief.

I didn't care much 'bout Lincoln. It was nice of him to free us, but 'course he didn't want to.

The overseer was sho' nothing but poor white trash, the kind who didn't lak niggers and dey
still don't, old devils. Don't let 'em fool you, dey don't lak a nigger a'tall.

I'm a Methodist. People ought to praise God 'cause he done done so much for dese sinners. Dey
was heap more religious in my early days. I jined church in 1863. I jined the Holiness so I
could git baptized and the Methodist wouldn't baptize you. After my baptism, I went back to
the Methodist Church. You know my pastor, Reverend Miller, is the first Methodist preacher
I ever knowed that was baptized, and that baptizes everybody.

I was married in Akin, South Carolina to Andrew Pew. We had 12 chillun. Jest one boy is my
only living child today.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves

MARSHALL MACK Age 83 yrs. Oklahoma City, Okla.

I was born September 10, 1854. I am the second child of five. My mother was named Sylvestus
Mack and my father Booker Huddleston. I do not remember my mother's master, 'cause he died
before I was born. My Mistress was named Nancy Mack. She was the mother of six children, four
boys and two girls. Three of dem boys went to the War and one packed and went off somewhar
and nobody heard from him doing of the whole War. But soon as the War was over he come home
and he never told whar he had been.

I never saw but one grown person flogged during slavery and dat was my mother. The younger
son of my mistress whipped her one morning in de kitchen. His name was Jack. De slaves on Mistress'
place was treated so good, all de people round and 'bout called us "Mack's Free Niggers." Dis
was 14 miles northwest of Liberty, county seat of Bedford County, Virginia.

One day while de War was going on, my Mistress got a letter from her son Jim wid jest one line.
Dat was "Mother: Jack's brains spattered on my gun this morning." That was all he written.

Jack Huddleston owned my father, who was his half-brother, and he was the meanest man I ever
seen. He flogged my father with tobacco sticks and my mother after these floggings (which I
never seen) had to pick splinters out of his back. My father had to slip off a night to come
and visit us. He lived a mile and a half from our house on the south side of the Blue Ridge
Mountains, and it sho' is a rocky country. He'd oversleep hisself and git up running. We would
stand in our door and hear him running over them rocks til he got home. He was trying to git
dere before his master called him.

It was a law among the slave-holders that if you left your master's place, you had to have
a pass, for if the patroller caught you without one, he would give you 9 and 30 lashes and
carry you to your master, and if he was mean, you got the same again!

On the 3-foot fireplace my mother and father cooked ash cakes and my father having to run to
work, had to wash his cakes off in a spring betwixt our house and his. My mother was the cook
in the Big House.

All the time we would see "nigger traders" coming through the country. I have seen men and
women cuffed to 60-foot chains being took to Lynchburg, Va., to the block to be sold. Now I
am talking 'bout what I know, for it would not mean one thing for me to lie. I ain't jest heard
dis. My uncle John was a carpenter and always took Mistress' chillun to school in a two-horse
surrey. On sech trips, the chillun learned my uncle to read and write. Dey slipped and done
this, for it was a law among slave-holders that a slave not be caught wid a book.

One morning when I was on my way to de mill with a sack of corn, I had to go down de main pike.
I saw sech a fog 'til I rid close enough to see what was gwine on. I heard someone say "close
up." I was told since dat it was Hood's Raid. They took every slave that could carry a gun.
It was at dis time, Negroes went into de service. Lee was whipping Grant two battles to one
'til them raids, and den Grant whipped Lee two battles to one, 'cause he had Negroes in the
Union Army. Dey took Negroes and all de white people's food. Dey killed chickens and picked
dem on horseback. I never will forgit that time long as I live.

Ever day I had to get the mail for three families. I carried it around in a bag and each family
took his'n out. I guess I was one of the first Negro mailmen.

We had church on the place and had right good meetings. Everybody went and took part in the
service. We had to have passes to go off the place to the meetings.

The children wore just one garment from this time of year (spring) till the frost fell. Mistress'
daughters made dese. We sure kept healthy and fat.

I will be 83 years of age September 10, 1937 and am enjoying my second eyesight. I could not
see a thing hardly for some few years, but now I can read sometimes without glasses. I keep
my lawn in first class shape and work all the time.

No sir, I jest can't set in judgement on nobody, 'cause I learned when I was jest a little
boy that good people and bad people--makes no difference which--jest keep on living and doing
like they been taught, and I jest can't seem to blame them none for what they do iffen they
been taught that way.

I was born in slavery, and I belonged to a Baptist preacher. Until I was fifteen years old
I was taught that I was his own chattel-property, and he could do with me like he wanted to,
but he had been taught that way too, and we both believed it. I never did hold nothing against
him for being hard on Negroes sometimes, and I don't think I ever would of had any trouble
even if I had of growed up and died in slavery.

The young Negroes don't know nothing 'bout that today, and lots of them are rising up and amounting
to something, and all us Negroes is proud of them. You see, it's because they been taught that
they got as good a show to be something as anybody, if they tries hard.

Well, this old Negro knows one thing: they getting somewheres 'cause the young whitefolks is
letting them and helping them to do it, 'cause the whitefolks has been taught the same way,
and I praise God its getting to be that way, too. But it all go to show, people do like they
been taught to do.

Like I say, my master was a preacher and a kind man, but he treated the Negroes jest like they
treated him. He been taught that they was jest like his work hosses, and if they act like they
his work hosses they git along all right. But if they don't--Oh, oh!

Like the Dixie song say, I was born "on a frosty mornin'" at the plantation in Clarke County,
Mississippi, in the fall of 1850 they tell me. The old place looked the same all the time I
was a child, clean up to when we pull out and leave the second year of the War.

I can shet my eyes and think about it and it seem to come right up in front of me jest like
it looked. From my Pappy's cabin the Big House was off to the west, close to the big road,
and most of the fields stretched off to the north. They was a big patch of woods off to the
east, and no much open land between us and the Chickasawhay River. Off to the southwest a few
miles was the Bucatunna Creek, and the plantation was kind of in the forks between them, a
little ways east of Quitman, Mississippi.

Old Master's people been living at that place a mighty long time, and most the houses and barns
was old and been repaired time and time again, but it was a mighty pretty place. The Big House
was built long, with a lot of rooms all in a row and a long porch, but it wasn't fine like
a lot of the houses we seen as we passed by when we left that place to go to Louisiana.

Old Master didn't have any overseer hired, but him and his boys looked after the place and
had a Negro we called the driver. We-all shore hated that old black man, but I forget his name
now. That driver never was allowed to think up nothing for the slaves to do, but jest was told
to make them work hard at what the master and his boys told them to do. Whitefolks had to set
them at a job and then old driver would whoopity and whoopity around, and egg them and egg
them until they finish up, so they can go at something else. He worked hard hisself, though,
and set a mighty hard pattern for the rest to keep up with. Like I say, he been taught he didn't
know how to think, so he didn't try.

Old Mistress name was Mary, and they had two daughters, Levia and Betty. Then they had three
sons. The oldest was named Bill Junior, and he was plumb grown when I was a boy, but the other
two, Jedson and Jim, was jest a little older then me.

Old Master didn't have but two or three single Negroes, but he had several families, and most
of them was big ones. My own family was pretty good size, but three of the children was born
free. Pappy's name was William and Mammy's was Lucy. My brother Joe was the oldest child and
then come Adeline, Harriet, and Texana and Betty before the surrender, and then Henry, Mattie
and Louisa after it.

When the War come along old Master jest didn't know what to do. He always been taught not to
raise his hand up and kill nobody--no matter how come--and he jest kept holding out against
all them that was talking about fighting, and he wouldn't go and fight. He been taught that
it was all right to have slaves and treat them like he want to, but he been taught it was sinful
to go fight and kill to keep them, and he lived up to what he been taught.

They was some Choctaw people lived 'round there, and they flew up and went right off to the
War, and Mr. Trot Hand and Mr. Joe Brown that had plantations on the big road towards Quitman
both went off with their grown boys right at the start, but old Master was a preacher and he
jest stayed out of it. I remember one day I was sent up to the Big House and I heard old Master
and some men out at the gate 'xpounding about the War. Some of the men had on soldier clothes,
and they acted like they was mad. Somebody tell me later on that they was getting up a home
guard because the yankees done got down in Alabama not far away, but old Master wouldn't go
in with them.

Two, three days after that, it seems like, old Master come down to the quarters and say git
everything bundled up and in the wagons for a long trip. The Negroes all come in and everybody
pitch in to help pack up the wagons. Then old Master look around and he can't find Andy. Andy
was one Negro that never did act like he been taught, and old Master's patience about wore
out with him anyways.

We all know that Andy done run off again, but we didn't know where to. Leastwise all the Negroes
tell old Master that. But old Master soon show us we done the work and he done the thinking!
He jest goes ahead and keeps all the Negroes busy fixing up the wagons and bundling up the
stuff to travel, and keeps us all in his sight all the time, and says nothing about Andy being
gone.

Then that night he sends for a white man name Clements that got some blood hounds, and him
and Mr. Clements takes time about staying awake and watching all the cabins to see nobody slips
out of them. Everybody was afraid to stick their head out.

Early next morning we has all the wagons ready to drive right off, and old Master call Andy's
brother up to him. He say, "You go down to that spring and wait, and when Andy come down to
the spring to fill that cedar bucket you stole out'n the smokehouse for him to git water in
you tell him to come on in here. Tell him I know he is hiding out way down the branch whar
he can come up wading the water clean up to the cornfield and the melon patch, so the hounds
won't git his scent, but I'm going to send the hounds down there if he don't come on in right
now." Then we all knowed we was for the work and old Master was for the thinking, 'cause pretty
soon Andy come on in. He'd been right whar old Master think he is.

About that time Mr. Sears come riding down the big road. He was a deacon in old Master's church,
and he see us all packed up to leave and so he light at the big gate and walk up to whar we
is. He ask old Master where we all lighting out for, and old Master say for Louisiana. We Negroes
don't know where that is. Then old deacon say what old Master going to do with Andy, 'cause
there stood Mr. Clements holding his bloodhounds and old Master had his cat-o-nine-tails in
his hand.

Old Master say just watch him, and he tell Andy if he can make it to that big black gum tree
down at the gate before the hounds git him he can stay right up in that tree and watch us all
drive off. Then he tell Andy to git!

Poor Andy jest git hold of the bottom limbs when the blood hounds grab him and pull him down
onto the ground. Time old Master and Mr. Clements git down there the hounds done tore off all
Andy's clothes and bit him all over bad. He was rolling on the ground and holding his shirt
up 'round his throat when Mr. Clements git there and pull the hounds off of him.

Then old Master light in on him with that cat-o-nine-tails, and I don't know how many lashes
he give him, but he jest bloody all over and done fainted pretty soon. Old Deacon Sears stand
it as long as he can and then he step up and grab old Master's arm and say, "Time to stop,
Brother! I'm speaking in the name of Jesus!" Old Master quit then, but he still powerful mad.
I don't think he believe Andy going to make that tree when he tell him that.

Then he turn on Andy's brother and give him a good beating too, and we all drive off and leave
Andy setting on the ground under a tree and old Deacon standing by him. I don't know what ever
become of Andy, but I reckon maybe he went and live with old Deacon Sears until he was free.

When I think back and remember it, it all seems kind of strange, but it seem like old Master
and old Deacon both think the same way. They kind of understand that old Master had a right
to beat his Negro all he wanted to for running off, and he had a right to set the hounds on
him if he did, but he shouldn't of beat him so hard after he told him he was going let him
off if he made the tree, and he ought to keep his word even if Andy was his own slave. That's
the way both them white men had been taught, and that was the way they both lived.

Old Master had about five wagons on that trip down into Louisiana, but they was all full of
stuff and only the old slaves and children could ride in them. I was big enough to walk most
of the time, but one time I walked in the sun so long that I got sick and they put me in the
wagon for most the rest of the way.

We would come to places where the people said the Yankees had been and gone, but we didn't
run into any Yankees. They was most to the north of us I reckon, because we went on down to
the south part of Mississippi and ferried across the big river at Baton Rouge. Then we went
on to Lafayette, Louisiana, before we settled down anywhere.

All us Negroes thought that was a mighty strange place. We would hear white folks talking and
we couldn't understand what they said, and lots of the Negroes talked the same way, too. It
was all full of French people around Lafayette, but they had all their menfolks in the Confederate
Army just the same. I seen lots of men in butternut clothes coming and going hither and yon,
but they wasn't in bunches. They was mostly coming home to see their folks.

Everybody was scared all the time, and two--three times when old Master hired his Negroes out
to work the man that hired them quit his place and went on west before they got the crop in.
But old Master got a place and we put in a cotton crop, and I think he got some money by selling
his place in Mississippi. Anyway, pretty soon after the cotton was all in he moves again and
goes to a place on Simonette Lake for the winter. It aint a bit cold in that place, and we
didn't have no fire 'cepting to cook, and sometimes a little charcoal fire in some crock pots
that the people left on the place when they went on out to Texas.

The next spring old Master loaded up again and we struck out for Texas, when the Yankees got
too close again. But Master Bill didn't go to Texas, because the Confederates done come that
winter and made him go to the army. I think they took him to New Orleans, and old Master was
hopping mad, but he couldn't do anything or they would make him go too, even if he was a preacher.

I think he left out of there partly because he didn't like the people at that place. They wasn't
no Baptists around anywheres, they was all Catholics, and old Master didn't like them.

About that time it look like everybody in the world was going to Texas. When we would be going
down the road we would have to walk along the side all the time to let the wagons go past,
all loaded with folks going to Texas.

Pretty soon old Master say git the wagons loaded again, and this time we start out with some
other people, going north. We go north a while and then turn west, and cross the Sabine River
and go to Nachedoches, Texas. Me and my brother Joe and my sister Adeline walked nearly all
the way, but my little sister Harriet and my mammy rid in a wagon. Mammy was mighty poorly,
and jest when we got to the Sabine bottoms she had another baby. Old Master didn't like it
'cause it was a girl, but he named her Texana on account of where she was born and told us
children to wait on Mammy good and maybe we would get a little brother next time.

But we didn't. Old Master went with a whole bunch of wagons on out to the prairie country in
Coryell County and set up a farm where we just had to break the sod and didn't have to clear
off much. And the next baby Mammy had the next year was a girl. We named her Betty because
Mistress jest have a baby a little while before and its name was Betty.

Old Master's place was right at the corner where Coryell and McLennan and Bosque Counties come
together, and we raised mostly cotton and jest a little corn for feed. He seem like he changed
a lot since we left Mississippi, and seem like he paid more attention to us and looked after
us better. But most the people that already live there when we git there was mighty hard on
their Negroes. They was mostly hard drinkers and hard talkers, and they work and fight jest
as hard as they talk, too!

One day Old Master come out from town and tell us that we all been set free, and we can go
or stay jest as we wish. All of my family stay on the place and he pay us half as shares on
all we make. Pretty soon the whitefolks begin to cut down on the shares, and the renters git
only a third and some less, and the Negroes begin to drift out to other places, but old Master
stick to the halves a year or so after that. Then he come down to a third too.

It seem like the white people can't git over us being free, and they do everything to hold
us down all the time. We don't git no schools for a long time, and I never see the inside of
a school. I jest grow up on hard work. And we can't go 'round where they have the voting, unless
we want to ketch a whipping some night, and we have to jest keep on bowing and scraping when
we are 'round white folks like we did when we was slaves. They had us down and they kept us
down. But that was the way they been taught, and I don't blame them for it none, I reckon.

When I git about thirty years old I marry Betty Sadler close to Waco, and we come up to the
Creek Nation forty years ago. We come to Muskogee first, and then to Tulsa about thirty seven
years ago.

We had ten children but only seven are alive. Three girls and a boy live here in Tulsa and
we got one boy in Muskogee and one at Frederick, Oklahoma.

I sells milk and makes my living, and I keeps so busy I don't think back on the old days much,
but if anybody ask me why the Texas Negroes been kept down so much I can tell them. If they
set like I did on the bank at that ferry across the Sabine, and see all that long line of covered
wagons, miles and miles of them, crossing that river and going west with all they got left
out of the War, it aint hard to understand.

Them whitefolks done had everything they had tore up, or had to run away from the places they
lived, and they brung their Negroes out to Texas and then right away they lost them too. They
always had them Negroes, and lots of them had mighty fine places back in the old states, and
then they had to go out and live in sod houses and little old boxed shotguns and turn their
Negroes loose. They didn't see no justice in it then, and most of them never did until they
died. The folks that stayed at home and didn't straggle all over the country had their old
places to live on and their old friends around them, but them Texans was different.

So I says, when they done us the way they did they was jest doing the way they was taught.
I don't blame them, because anybody will do that.

Whitefolks mighty decent to me now, and I always tried to teach my children to be respectful
and act like they think the whitefolks they dealing with expects them to act. That the way
to git along, because some folks been taught one way and some been taught another, and folks
always thinks the way they been taught.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves

BOB MAYNARD, AGE 79 23 East Choctaw Weleetka, Oklahoma.

I was born near what is now Marlin, Texas, Falls County. My father was Robert Maynard and my
mother was Chanie Maynard, both born slaves. Our Master, Gerard Branum, was a very old man
and wore long white whiskers. He sho' was a fine built man, and walked straight and tall like
a young man.

I was too little to do much work so my job was to carry the key basket for old Mistress. I
sho' was proud of that job. The basket held the keys to the pantry, the kitchen, the linen
closet, and extra keys to the rooms and smokehouse. When old Mistress started out on her rounds
every morning she'd call to me to get de basket and away we'd go. I'd run errands for all the
house help too, so I was kept purty busy.

The "big house" was a fine one. It was a big two-story white house made of pine lumber. There
was a big porch or veranda across the front and wings on the east and west. The house faced
south. There was big round white posts that went clean up to the roof and there was a big porch
upstairs too. I believe the house was what you'd call colonial style. There was twelve or fifteen
rooms and a big wide stairway. It was a purty place, with a yard and big trees and the house
that set in a walnut and pecan grove. They was graveled walks and driveways and all along by
the driveway was cedars. There was a hedge close to the house and a flower garden with purty
roses, holly hocks and a lot of others I don't know the name of.

Back to the right of the house was the smokehouse, kept full of meat, and further back was
the big barns. Old Master kept a spanking pair of carriage horses and several fine riding horses.
He kept several pairs of mules, too, to pull the plow. He had some ox teams too.

To the left and back of the "big house" was the quarters. He owned about two thousand acres
of land and three hundred slaves. He kept a white overseer and the colored overlooker was my
uncle. He sho' saw that the gang worked. He saw to it that the cotton was took to the gin.
They used oxen to pull the wagons full of cotton. There was two gins on the plantation. Had
to have two for it was slow work to gin a bale of cotton as it was run by horse power.

Old Master raised hundreds of hogs; he raised practically all the food we et. He gave the food
out to each family and they done their own cooking except during harvest. The farm hands was
fed at the "big house." They was called in from the farm by a big bell.

Sunday was our only day for recreation. We went to church at our own church, and we could sing
and shout jest as loud as we pleased and it didn't disturb nobody.

During the week after supper we would all set round the doors outside and sing or play music.
The only musical instruments we had was a jug or big bottle, a skillet lid or frying pan that
they'd hit with a stick or a bone. We had a flute too, made out of reed cane and it'd make
good music. Sometimes we'd sing and dance so long and loud old Master'd have to make us stop
and go to bed.

The Patrollers, Ku Kluxers or night riders come by sometimes at night to scare the niggers
and make 'em behave. Sometimes the slaves would run off and the Patroller would catch 'em and
have 'em whipped. I've seen that done lots of times. They was some wooden stocks (a sort of
trough) and they'd put the darky in this and strap him down, take off his clothers and give
him 25 to 50 licks, 'cording to what he had done.

I reckon old Master had everything his heart could wish for at this time. Old Mistress was
a fine lady and she always went dressed up. She wore long trains on her skirts and I'd walk
behind her and hold her train up when she made de rounds. She was awful good to me. I slept
on the floor in her little boy's room, and she give me apples and candy just like she did him.
Old Master gave ever chick and child good warm clothes for winter. We had store boughten shoes
but the women made our clothes. For underwear we all wore 'lowers' but no shirts.

After the war started old Master took a lot of his slaves and went to Natchez, Mississippi.
He thought he'd have a better chance of keeping us there I guess, and he was afraid we'd be
greed [TR: freed?] and he started running with us. I remember when General Grant blowed up
Vicksburg. I had a free born Uncle and Aunt who sometimes visited in the North and they'd till
us how easy it was up there and it sho' made us all want to be free.

I think Abe Lincoln was next to de Lawd. He done all he could for de slaves; he set 'em free.
People in the South knowed they'd lose their slaves when he was elected president. 'Fore the
election he traveled all over the South and he come to our house and slept in old Mistress'
bed. Didn't nobody know who he was. It was a custom to take strangers in and put them up for
one night or longer, so he come to our house and he watched close. He seen how the niggers
come in on Saturday and drawed four pounds of meat and a peck of meal for a week's rations.
He also saw 'em whipped and sold. When he got back up north he writ old Master a letter and
told him he was going to have to free his slaves, that everybody was going to have to, that
the North was going to see to it. He also told him that he had visited at his house and if
he doubted it to go in the room he slept in and look on the bedstead at the head and he'd see
where he'd writ his name. Sho' nuff, there was his name: A. Lincoln.

Didn't none of us like Jeff Davis. We all liked Robert E. Lee, but we was glad that Grant whipped
him.

When the War was over, old Master called all the darkies in and lined 'em up in a row. He told
'em they was free to go and do as they pleased. It was six months before any of us left him.

Darkies could vote in Mississippi. Fred Douglas, a colored man, came to Natchez and made political
speeches for General Grant.

After the war they was a big steam boat line on the Mississippi River known as the Robert E.
Lee Line. They sho' was fine boats too.

We used to have lots of Confederate money. Five cent pieces, two bit pieces, half dollar bills
and half dimes. During the war old Master dug a long trench and buried all de silver ware,
fine clothes, jewelry and a lot of money. I guess he dug it up, but I don't remember.

Master died three years after the War. He took it purty good, losing his niggers and all. Lots
of men killed theirselves. Old Master was a good old man.

I'm getting old, I reckon. I've been married twice and am the father of 19 chillun. The oldest
if 57 and my youngest is two boys, ten and twelve. I has great grandchillun older than them
two boys. Oklahoma City, Oklahoma

I was born March 15, 1857, in Homer, Louisiana. I claim to be 75 years old, but that's jest
my way of counting. My mother was Sarah Strong and my father was Edmond Beavers. We lived in
a log cabin that had jest one door. I had two sisters named Peggy and Katie. Mammy was bought
from the Strong family and my pappy was bought from Beavers by Mister Eason.

We slept on wooden slabs which was jest make-shift beds. I didn't do no work in slave times
'cause I was too little. You jest had to be good and husky to work on that place. I listened
and told mammy everything I heerd. I ate right side dat old white woman on the flo'. I was
a little busy-body. I don't recollect eating in our quarters on Sunday and no other time.

I don't remember no possums and rabbits being on our place, 'cause when white folks killed
a chicken for their selves, dey killed one for the niggers. My pappy never ate no cornbread
in all his put-together. Meat was my favorite food. I never ate no dry bread without no meat.

We wore homespun clothes. My first pair of shoes was squirrel skin. Mammy had 'em made. We
wore clothes called linsey that was wool and cotton mixed.

My father was the onliest overseer. It was sho' a great big old place. My master jest seen
the place on Sundays. They was jest seven Niggers on our plantation. No working late at night
but we had to git up at daylight. When our day's work was done, we went to bed, but sometimes
they sung. Sadday was a holiday from working on the plantation. You had Sadday to wash for
yourself. We didn't do nothing on Christmas and all holidays.

Mistress never whip us and iffen master would start, mistress would git a gun and make him
stop. She said, "Let ever bitch whip her own chillun." I never seen no patrollers, I jest heerd
of 'em. They never come on our place. I guess they was scared to. The Klu Klux whipped niggers
when so never they could catch 'em. They rid at night mostly.

I am a Baptist. I belong to Calvary Baptist Church. I was baptized in a creek. Our favorite
hymn was "Dark Was the Night an' Cold the Ground." Our favorite revival hymn was "Lord I'd
Come to Thee, a Sinner Undefiled." Our favorite funeral song was "Hark From the Tomb."

My family didn't believe in conjure an' all that stuff, 'though they's a heap of it was going
on and still is for that matter. They had "hands" that was made up of all kinds of junk. You
used 'em to make folks love you more'n they did. We used asafetida to keep off smallpox and
measles. Put mole foots round a baby's neck to make him teethe easy. We used to use nine red
ants tied in a sack round they neck to make 'em teethe easy and never had no trouble with 'em
neither.

I think I seen a haunt once, 'cause when I looked the second time, what I seen the first time
was gone.

When the War was over, mistress' son come home and he cleaned his guns on my dress tail. It
sho' stunk up my dress and made me sick too. He told old mistress that niggers was free now.
I went and told mammy that old Betsy's son told her the niggers was free and what did he mean.
She said, "Shhhhhh!" They never did jest come out and tell us we was free. We was free in July
and mammy left in September. We lived in Jordan Saline, out from Smith County. Then my mother
give me to my father 'cause she was married to another man. Her and my step-father moved to
Gilmore, Texas. They sent for me round 'bout Christmas and we lived on Sampers' farm.

We lived so far out, we couldn't go to school, 'though they was for us. We didn't own no land.
Didn't nobody learn me to read and write.

Abe Lincoln was a good man. It was through Mr. Lincoln that God fit to free us. I don't know
much 'bout Jeff Davis and don't care nothing 'bout him. Booker T. Washington built that school
through God. He used to live in a cabin jest lak I done. He was sho' a great man.

I married Trole Kemp in 1883. I 'mind you they didn't marry in slavery, they jest took up.
Master jest give a permit. I am the mother of 10 chillun and 5 grandchillun. Four of my chillun
died young. Them what's living is doing different things sech as: writing policy, working on
made work, housework, government clerk and hotel maid. One is in the pen. Oklahoma City, Okla.

I 'membuh what my mother say--I was born November 9, 1857, in Missouri. I was 'bout eight years
old, when she was sold to a master named Harrison Davis. They said he had two farms in Missouri,
but when he moved to northern Texas he brought me, my mother, Uncle George, Uncle Dick and
a cullud girl they said was 15 with 'im. He owned 'bout 6 acres on de edge of town near Sherman,
Texas, and my mother and 'em was all de slaves he had. They said he sold off some of de folks.

We didn't have no overseers in northern Texas, but in southern Texas dey did. Dey didn't raise
cotton either; but dey raised a whole lots of corn. Sometime de men would shuck corn all night
long. Whenever dey was going to shuck all night de women would piece quilts while de men shuck
de corn and you could hear 'em singing and shucking corn. After de cornshucking, de cullud
folks would have big dances.

Master Davis lived in a big white frame house. My mother lived in the yard in a big one-room
log hut with a brick chimney. De logs was "pinted" (what dey call plastered now with lime).
I don't know whether young folks know much 'bout dat sort of thing now.

I slept on de floor up at de "Big House" in de white woman's room on a quilt. I'd git up in
de mornings, make fires, put on de coffee, and tend to my little brother. Jest do little odd
jobs sech as that.

We ate vegetables from de garden, sech as that. My favorite dish is vegetables now.

I don't remember seeing any slaves sold. My mother said dey sold 'em on de block in Kentucky
where she was raised.

I don't remembuh when de War broke out, but I remembuh seeing the soldiers with de blue uniforms
on. I was afraid of 'em.

Old mistress didn't tell us when he was free, but another white woman told my mother and I
remembuh. One day old mistress told my mother to git to that wheel and git to work, and my
mother said, "I ain't gwineter, I'm jest as free as you air." So dat very day my mother packed
up all our belongings and moved us to town, Sherman, Texas. She worked awful hard, doing day
work for 50¢ a day, and sometimes she'd work for food, clothes or whatever she could git.

I don't believe in conjuring though I heard lotta talk 'bout it. Sometimes I have pains and
aches in my hands, feel like sometime dat somebody puts dey hands on me, but I think jest de
way my nerves is.

I can't say much 'bout Abe Lincoln. He was a republican in favor of de cullud folk being free.
Jeff Davis? Yeah, the boys usta sing a song 'bout 'im:

    Lincoln rides a fine hoss,
    Jeff Davis rides a mule,
    Lincoln is de President,
    Jeff Davis is de fool.

Booker T. Washington--I guess he is a right good man. He's for the cullud people I guess.

I been a Christian thirty some odd years. I've been here some thirty odd years. Had to come
when my husband did. He died in 1902. We married in 18--I've forgot, but we went to de preacher
and got married. We did more than jump over de broom stick.

