     In China, while occupied as Medical Missionary and United States
     Consul, he published a newspaper in the Chinese language; in
     London, also, he rendered valuable service in vindicating our
     Government from the attacks of Lord Brougham and Sir John Bowring.

     In all his various efforts, Dr. MACGOWAN received the
     highest commendation from the press, as well as from his learned
     audiences. We therefore call the attention of our readers to the
     present essay, on the important subject of 'Japanese Foreign
     Relations,' as from the pen of one familiar with the history and
     bearing of the questions of which he treats.--ED. CONTINENTAL.]

Strolling recently from Nagasaki toward the volcanic mountain Simabara, the writer was compelled
to retrace his steps by the yaconins, or guards of the prince of Fizen, and thus he failed
to accomplish the object he had in view--that of searching for the monument erected, it is
said, to commemorate the expulsion of foreigners from Japan, and the suppression of Christianity,
bearing an impious inscription, forbidding Christians and the God of the Christians from ever
appearing in that 'Eden Minor.' Whether the monument still exists or not, it is certain that
the spirit of the edict of Gongen Sama, which expelled Europeans forever from the country,
and enjoined natives to slay foreigners, still actuates the ruling classes in the insular empire
of the Pacific. Hence the exclamation of the daring and potent prince of Kago, who, in 1853,
when the American treaty was before the Daimios, in council, placing his hand upon the hilts
of his swords, said: 'Rather than admit foreigners into the country, let us die fighting.'
He was overruled--a decade has elapsed, and his forebodings of evil have been realized. One
of the results of the concession to Americans has been a despatch from Earl Russell to the
British minister at Yedo, which says: 'It would be better that the Tycoon's palace should be
destroyed than that our rightful position by treaty should be weakened or impaired.' When a
British minister threatens to burn a palace, Eastern Asiatics know full well that the torch
will be preceded by a bombardment and followed by looting, which in Anglo-Indian parlance means
plundering. Thirteen ships of war, two of them French, are at Yokahama, within a few hours'
sail of the palace which adorns Yedo, the proud metropolis of the 'Land of the Rising Sun,'
awaiting an answer to a British ultimatum.

As the Japanese are neighbors of our countrymen whose homes are on our Pacific coast, we should
not be so absorbed in the struggle to maintain our nationality as to be unmindful of the perils
by which they are surrounded. While the subjugation of Mexico, by one of the Allied Powers,
which aims at a general protectorate of the East, causes us anxiety, the prospective invasion
of Japan by the other power cannot but be regarded by us with solicitude, for in its results
it promises to open another 'neutral' port to facilitate the operations of other Nashvilles
and Alabamas against our commerce. Assuming that we shall speedily avert the impending danger
of foreign domination involved in the present contest, the various questions affecting American
interests in Eastern Asia become fitting subjects for discussion, and at this moment the foreign
relations of Japan particularly demand consideration.

At one period of their history, the foreign relations of the Japanese were of the most amicable
character. In their treatment of the Europeans who first visited them, they were courteous
and liberal. For a period of ninety years the Portuguese carried on a highly lucrative commerce,
by which they built up the port of Macao, which has been styled the brightest jewel in the
Lusitanian crown. To Xavier and his co-religionists they extended a cordial welcome. Bringing,
as did the missionaries, a similar but more imposing ritual, with dogmas in many points analogous,
but accompanied with the sublime teachings of the gospel, the propagation of the new faith
was so facile, that a single generation might have witnessed the nominal christianization of
the entire empire, had not fatal dissensions arisen among the different orders of the Portuguese,
Spanish, and Italian missionaries. In consequence of these dissensions the country was closed
to foreign commerce and religion for more than two centuries. A like cause led to the closing
of China to Christian nations.

The edicts of Gongen Sama (founder of the reigning Tycoon family) not only prohibited the visit
of any foreigner under penalty of death, but condemned to death any native who might return
to Japan after going abroad, or being driven to another land by a storm. The vindictive code
was no brutum fulmen, for not long after their exclusion, the Macao Portuguese despatched an
embassy, nearly all the members of which, including attendants and ships' crews, were massacred.
Of the sixty, only the menials, thirteen in number, were suffered to return.

A long period of exemption from foreign intrusion followed. With the present century commenced
a series of private and semi-official visits from various nations. During their seclusion they
ceased not to feel an interest in Western affairs, but, aided by the Dutch, they studied physical
sciences and contemporaneous history. Thus they heard of the gradual approach of the irrepressible
foreigner, the opening of China through the Opium War, the acquisition of Hong Kong by the
English, the frequent appearance of American whalers off their coast, the rise of California,
and the introduction of steam on the Pacific. These things must have suggested to thoughtful
observers the necessity of modifying some day the institutions of Gongen Sama; indeed, the
Dutch state that they counselled against resisting the demands likely to be made by mercantile
powers for a relaxation of their prohibitive policy. Therefore it was that the not unreasonable
requirements of Commodore Perry were complied with, which guaranteed succor and good treatment
of distressed sailors, and the admission of a consul. This last concession was obtained with
much difficulty, for they regarded it as an abandonment of their policy of isolation, and such
it proved.

Our minister, Mr. Townsend Harris (then consul general), succeeded, after much resistance from
the Japanese, in getting access to Yedo from his consulate at Simoda in 1857, his object being
to negotiate a commercial treaty, which in the following year he accomplished. Many English
writers endeavor to rob Mr. Harris of the honor which he gained in thus opening an empire to
the commerce of the world. The Tycoon acquiesced, say they, while the echoes of the allied
guns in north China were booming in his ears. Our minister is represented as holding the British
and French fleets in terrorem over the nervous Japanese, and obtaining, without the cost and
odium of an expedition, the same advantages as if an American expedition had been despatched,
and had been successful. The truth however is, the American treaty was negotiated, drawn, and
ready for signature before he or they heard of the attack on the forts at Taku; and only signed
at the appointed time, after learning that news. Now, however, finding themselves in a quandary,
we see their highest authorities on this question pleading in extenuation the circumstance
that they were 'driven by the Americans into making a Japanese treaty'!

The concession made by the Japanese, in the first place--of kind treatment of shipwrecked voyagers,
and of facilities for the refitting of disabled vessels--was no more than we had a right to
exact; perhaps, also, we may be justified in having urged them to admit a resident official
agent to protect those interests. But if a nation deems it politic to isolate itself from all
others, has any state the right to compel that nation to abandon its exclusivism, and to receive
offensive strangers as residents? No publicist will answer this in the affirmative, nor do
statesmen advocate such a claim; yet practically Christian nations have uniformly acted on
the assumption that they might rightfully force themselves upon an unwilling people. It is
however from the corollary involved in this assumption that weak peoples are made to suffer.
It would avail the aggressive power little if its subjects were required to comply with all
the laws of the country into which they had thrust themselves, for in that case the laws could
be made to operate so as to thwart them in every important undertaking. Hence to the right
of residing in a country contrary to the will of its government is joined the correlative,
that of compelling the feeble state to abdicate its sovereignty to the extent of exempting
the intrusive foreigner from local jurisdiction--of according the advantage of extra-territoriality.
The pliant Chinese readily yielded to this new order of things on discovering that foreign
nations possessed the will and the power to enforce it; but the intractable Japanese must have
their spirit cowed by violence ere they can become resigned to the national degradation. It
was soon discovered that the measure was highly unpopular: the functionaries who acceded to
the demands of the hated foreigner forfeited their lives or their posts. Nobles who were intensely
hostile to the regime, succeeded to the administration; and on them devolved the task of inaugurating
a new era, of accommodating the institutions of their country to what they could not but regard
as the first stage of a revolution.

The delicate undertaking, of reconciling the antagonistic principles of an encroaching commerce
and of a feudal despotism, was committed to two diplomatists eminently fitted for its proper
performance. Mr. Townsend Harris, who by long and patient study had conciliated the people
and won the confidence of the Government, as United States consul general at Simoda, was appointed
as American minister to Yedo; and Sir Rutherford Alcock, whose experience as a British consular
officer in China dated from the period of the treaty of Nanking in 1842, was delegated as his
country's ambassador to that metropolis, the capital of the Tycoon. Several difficulties were
to be encountered at the threshold. First came a question of currency. Commodore Perry's treaty
allowed foreign coins to be taken at only a third of their value, and under the new treaties
our merchants found that by the rate of exchange the price of native products had been raised
fifty to seventy per cent.; on the other hand, they were able to purchase gold with silver,
weight for weight. The correspondence on this subject, written and verbal, plainly disclosed
that the free extension of trade was not contemplated by those islanders. Next we find the
Japanese gaining a diplomatic victory in the location of the foreign factories, having managed
to have them placed at Yokuhama, instead of Kanagawa, the site stipulated for in the treaties,
an arrangement which serves to isolate and almost imprison the foreign settlement; but as Yokuhama
was the choice also of the mercantile community, the ambassadors could not well press their
point--it went by default. It is the misfortune of Orientals generally, that in all their controversies
with the English, the latter have been the historiographers, and therefore, in almost every
step of their aggressive career, appear as disinterested champions of justice, seeking the
improvement of semi-civilized peoples, by inflicting upon them wholesome and merited chastisement.
Let it be conceded that the charges against the Japanese which we find in the Blue Book and
in Sir Rutherford Alcock's 'Capital of the Tycoon,' are all well founded, and the resort to
strong measures on the part of the British will be admitted to be justifiable.

These authorities narrate a series of murderous assaults, made upon Russian, French, Dutch,
American, and British subjects in quick succession, indicative, we are assured, of a fixed
determination of a powerful party to restore the regime of Gongen Sama. A party of Russian
officers were insulted in the streets of Yedo, for which, in compliance with the demands of
Count Mouravieff, a responsible official was degraded. To avenge this disgrace of a Japanese
officer, some of his friends set upon a Russian officer and his servant, hacking them to pieces
in one of the public streets. The next victim was a servant of the French consul, who was hewn
down and cut to pieces in the street. This was soon followed by the murder of the linguist
of the British embassy, a Chinaman; the sword which was thrust through his body was left in
that position by the assassin. The same night there was an attempt to fire the residence of
the French consul general. Two Dutch captains were next barbarously slaughtered in the streets
of Yokuhama; one of the unhappy men was over sixty years of age. The French legation again
suffered in the person of an Italian servant, who was cut down while quietly standing at his
master's gate. Mr. Heuskin, secretary of the United States legation, was the first assailed
of the diplomatic body. He was a valuable public servant, highly esteemed by natives and foreigners.
A native of Holland, he was linguist as well as secretary, the Dutch language being the medium
of communication. Despite various warnings against exposing himself by night, he, on returning
home at a late hour from the Prussian embassy, was waylaid and hewn down, dying speedily of
his wounds. Hitherto the English, personally, had escaped severe assaults; but, a few months
after the assassination of the secretary, a midnight attack was made on the British legation,
which, from its formidable character, showed that it contemplated the massacre of the entire
body. The assassins met with a spirited resistance from the English and their Japanese guard.
In that desperate encounter, Mr. Lawrence Oliphant, secretary of legation, was wounded severely,
Mr. Morrison (consul, a son of the celebrated missionary) and two servants slightly. Of the
Tycoon's guard two were killed and fourteen wounded. On the part of the assailants three were
killed on the spot, two, who were captured, committed suicide by ripping themselves up, and
several of those who escaped were wounded.

A subsequent attack on the British legation resulted in the death of two English sentries,
one receiving nine and the other sixteen sword wounds. The last of these murderous assaults
was made on three English gentlemen and a lady, who were riding on the Tokaido, where they
were met by the cortege of Shimadzoo Sabara, prince of Satzuma. Being ordered to return, they
complied, but no sooner had they turned their backs than they were set upon by the retainers
of the prince, numbering between five and six hundred. The lady miraculously escaped, two of
the gentlemen were wounded, and the third, Mr. Richardson, being nearly cut to pieces, fell
from his horse, and when lying in a dying state, one of the high officials of the cortege commanded
a follower to cut the throat of the unfortunate gentleman, an order that was quickly obeyed.

These sanguinary deeds were diversified by various attempts at arson--the latest, with aid
of gunpowder, being successful. On the first of last February, the British minister's residence
at Yedo was burned to the ground by armed incendiaries, who made their work more sure by laying
trains of gunpowder, which caused a tremendous explosion; but as it was, the members of the
legation were all at Yokuhama, and there was no loss of life except among the natives who tried
to extinguish the fire--they were shot down by the incendiaries.

The inquiry naturally occurs, Are there no extenuating circumstances to be adduced on the part
of the Japanese? Were there no acts of provocation on the part of foreigners? If we rely merely
on the testimony of the complainants, the reply would be an unqualified negative. An impartial
witness, however, finds no difficulty in presenting apologies, which have some claims to be
considered as a justification of their conduct. The Japanese affirm that nearly every case
of assault was designed to avenge personal insult. The linguist and the sentries of the British
legation had perpetrated wrongs upon those by whom they subsequently fell. When the attack
was made upon the sentries, it was by a solitary avenger, who stealthily crawled on his hands
and knees until he reached and slew the offender; and he killed the other because this last
attempted to prevent his escape. In like manner, the servants of the French official had committed
outrages upon these vindictive people, from whose resentment they suffered.

It should be remembered that if these men, instead of revenging themselves, had sought legal
redress, it could have been obtained, if at all, only at the hands of the masters of the aggressors,
who would have been tried and punished, if convicted, according to the foreigners' code. The
Chinese sometimes resort to our tribunals, but oftener submit to wrong; the nobler Japanese
have a sense of honor which will not easily brook such an invasion of their rights.

With regard to the case which the English make the immediate casus belli--the murder of Richardson--there
are contradictory statements; it is denied by the Japanese that he and his party turned back
to make way for the prince of Satzuma's cortege; they say, on the contrary, that he was killed
only after obstinate persistence in dashing through the cavalcade. Moreover, patriotism undoubtedly
prompted many of the deeds of violence detailed in the foregoing record. Take for example the
reason assigned by one of the assassins who was slain in one of the attacks on the British
legation, as declared in a paper found on his body.

     'I, though I am a person of low standing, have no patience to stand
     by and see the sacred empire defiled by the foreigner. If this
     thing from time to time may cause the foreigner to retire, and
     partly tranquillize the manes of departed mikados and tycoons, I
     shall take to myself the highest praise. Regardless of my own life,
     I am determined to set out.'

There were appended to the paper, from which the above extract is taken, the names of fourteen
Lonins, or bravos. These impulsive patriots did not restrict their assaults to the aggressive
foreigner, but assailed also the nobles who acceded to the foreigners' demands. Several times
ministers of state were attacked in the streets, while surrounded by their retainers, and on
each occasion many lives were lost in the fight which ensued. Indeed, continuing to follow
English official authority, it would appear that the American treaties cost the lives of two
tycoons, one regent, and several ministers and nobles, for the most part by self-evisceration.
The assassination of the Gotairo, or regent, is fresh in the minds of the public. It took place
at noon, while he was in the midst of his guard, on his way to the palace. His head, we are
informed, was exposed at the execution ground at Miako, there being placed over it the inscription:
'THIS IS THE HEAD OF A TRAITOR WHO HAS VIOLATED THE MOST SACRED LAWS OF JAPAN--THOSE WHICH
FORBID THE ADMISSION OF FOREIGNERS INTO THE COUNTRY,'--but which the Japanese affirm was never
written. The sentence, however, seems to express the motives of the murderers. It is the aristocracy
of the empire that is fiercely arrayed against an abandonment of the policy of isolation: that
the populace is not particularly hostile, is evinced by the comparative immunity of foreigners
from violence at the ports of Hakodadi and Nagasaki.

Why should the ruling classes seek to abrogate the treaties and defy foreign powers? The Daimios
are not ignorant of the prowess and resources of the country against which they particularly
array themselves: they are a well-informed and astute class, and cannot fall to see that feudalism
and commerce are antagonistic--that free intercourse with foreigners is incompatible with the
existence of the present form of government: and therefore many of them would fain revert to
the conservative policy of isolation. More than four years ago, the writer of this article,
then in Japan, although his opportunities of observation were limited, published the opinion
that a revolution would be the inevitable result of the concessions that had been extorted
from the tycoon; that civil war could hardly fail to take place, by which the government would
be brought under the sway of one ruler, tycoon, mikado, or some powerful daimio, which would
lead to the destruction of the feudal system, and to the introduction of Christian civilization,
a consummation which we in the interest of the Japanese may devoutly wish, but which the daimios,
having full knowledge of the same, must in self-defence resist to the last. Hence the English
base their charge that the attacks on foreigners were instigated by the nobles, and perpetrated
by their retainers, which remains to be proved.

Apart from the prospective evils consequent on an abandonment of the restrictive policy under
which the empire has long prospered, there were immediate consequences which to a high-minded
people must be galling and degrading beyond endurance. The treaties have robbed them of their
independence: compelling them to abdicate sovereignty to the extent of absolving resident foreigners
from Japanese jurisdiction. In various publications in the East and in Europe the writer has
attempted to show how disastrous extra-territoriality has been to China; on the present occasion
it will suffice to name this violation of a nation's rights as justifying resistance to the
last on the part of patriots in Japan.

While for good political reasons some daimios have endeavored to render the treaties inoperative,
and to frighten foreigners out of the land, there has been springing up among the people a
strong antipathy toward them, for which they have themselves alone to blame. Who that read
the glowing accounts of the reception at first accorded to our people, did not admire the suavity
and hospitality of the Japanese? This friendly intercourse lasted only until the parties came
to understand each other. Now, we are told that when a western man passes through the streets
he is hooted at as 'Tojin baka,' a foreign fool, a gentler way of putting it than in China--where
it is 'Fanqui'--foreign devil. The practical joking in which many foreigners are apt to indulge
is often carried too far, and being accompanied by an arrogant demeanor of superiority, proves
highly offensive. Again, we find the Tojin baka often fail to discriminate between different
classes of females. Discovering that the Japanese were lewd beyond all other people, with institutions
fostering vice, without even the flimsy pretext of hygienic considerations, they take liberties
which rouse the vindictive rage of husbands.

