T.B. PETERSON & BROTHERS take pleasure in calling the attention of the entire Reading Community,
as well as of all their Customers, and every Bookseller, News Agent, and Book Buyer, as well
as of the entire Book Trade everywhere, to the fact that they are now publishing a large number
of cloth and paper-covered Books, in very attractive style, including a series of 25 cent,
50 cent, 75 cent, $1.00, $1.50, $1.75, and $2.00 Books, in new style covers and bindings making
them large books for the money, and bringing them before the Reading Public by liberal advertising.
They are new books, and are cheap editions of the most popular and most saleable books published,
are written by the best American and English authors and are presented in a very attractive
style, printed from legible type, on good paper, and are especially adapted to suit all who
love to read good books, as well as for all General reading, and they will be found for sale
by all Booksellers, and at Hotel Stands, Railroad Stations and in the Cars. They are in fact
the most popular series of works of fiction ever published, retailing at 25 cents, 50 cents,
75 cents, $1.00, $1.50, $1.75, and $2.00 each, as they comprise the writings of the best and
most popular authors in the world, all of which will be sold by us to the trade at very low
prices, and also at retail to everybody. Send for a Catalogue of these books at once.

New books are issued by us every week, comprising the best and most entertaining works published,
suitable for the Parlor, Library, Sitting-Room, Railroad or Steamboat reading, and are written
by the most popular and best writers in the world.

Enclose a draft for five, ten, twenty, fifty, or one hundred dollars, or more, to us in a letter,
and write for what books you wish, and on receipt of the money, or a satisfactory reference,
the books will be packed and sent to you at once, in any way you may direct, with circulars
and show-bills of the books to post up.

We want every Bookseller, and every News Agent, everywhere, to sell our books, and to keep
an assortment of them on hand, and to send to us at once for a copy of our New Illustrated
Descriptive Catalogue, which look over carefully, marking what books you may want, as it contains
a list of all books published by us, all or any of which will be sold by us to everybody in
the Book Trade, to Booksellers, or to News Agents, at very low rates. There are no books published
you can sell as many of, or make as much money on, as Petersons'. Send us on a trial order.
All orders, large or small, will be sent the day the order is received, and small orders will
receive the same promptness and care as large orders.

All Books named in Petersons' Catalogue will be found for sale by all Booksellers, or copies
of any one book, or more, or all of them, will be sent to any one, at once, to any place, per
mail, post-paid, or free of freight, on remitting the retail price of the books wanted to T.B.
PETERSON & BROTHERS, Philadelphia.

WANTED--A Bookseller, News Agent, or Canvasser, in every city, town or village on this Continent,
to engage in the sale of Petersons' New and Popular Fast Selling Books, on which large sales,
and large profits can be made.

Booksellers, Librarians, News Agents, Canvassers, Pedlers, and all other persons, who may want
any of Petersons' Popular and Fast Selling Books, will please address their orders and letters,
at once, to meet with immediate attention, to

  T.B. PETERSON & BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS,
  306 CHESTNUT STREET, PHILADELPHIA, PA.