I E ska tarry, Gk kta possess; Dak kta defer, tarry, used also as sign of future tense. The
Mandan future inflection -kit -kt -t appears to be an abridgement of this.

Eu skat spring, leap; Dak skata play.

Eu ska, skad burn; Dak shku roast.

Eu skap annihilate; Dak skepa evaporate, remove entirely, cause to disappear.

Eu skap strike; Dak -skapa strike.

Eu skad, Gk keda spill, scatter; Dak kada spill, scatter, applied only to solids.

Eu skap scratch, shave; Min kape scratch.

Eu kopa concave; Dak skopa concave.

Eu skid press; Dak -ski- press.

Eu sku shave off, flay; Dak -sku shave off, flay.

Eu skru rough hew; Dak sku broken in gaps.

Eu snigh cold; Dak sni cold.

Eu swan sonare; Dak sna ring, rattle.

Eu skud, Teut skut shoot; Dak kate shoot.

Teut sota soot; Dak shota smoke, shotkazi soot.

Eu sad sit; Dak si, siha the foot.

The Dakota words that most resemble I E forms are those in daily use, those roots entering
into the largest number of compounds, those most widely distributed in languages more nearly
related.

Excluding words repeated in compounds and those contained in phrases I have not satisfactorily
analyzed, and including words derivative rather than compound, I find in Hayden, Morgan and
Schoolcraft 262 different Iowa words. Of these thirty-five as words represent words discussed
in this paper; thirty-nine others appear to be derived from roots herein discussed, a number
of them varying from the Dak. word only by using a different suffix also herein compared. Out
of 159 that I have been able plainly to trace to Dakota words and roots 121 are to Dakotan
roots and words which seem to be related to I E forms. If I had sufficient Iowa material to
enable me to find Iowa roots independently, I doubt not the resemblance to the Dakota would
be much increased, and the resemblance to the I E in a still greater degree.

The parable of the prodigal son as printed in Dr. Rigg's dictionary, page 61, contains as there
printed 417 words, 199 different[K] words. Of these 36 words, occurring 186 times, are in the
exact form[L] given in this paper; 8 other words, occurring 11 times, as given in my preceding
paper; 75 other words, occurring 106 times, are composed wholly of the words, roots and pronominal
elements compared with I E forms in the two papers. There remain 114 words, 80 different words.
If I have correctly analyzed them they contain the following elements compared in this paper:
words and verb roots, 9 times, pronouns 19 times, prepositional and pronominal prefixes 35
times. Much of the remainder, in all about nine-tenths of the whole, seems to me represent
I E materials with which I have compared it. I do not doubt that some of the similarities will
prove in the end fallacious. On the other hand I have no doubt that many new similarities will
be found. My father made a list of 1,243 Dakota verb stems, radical words and words which he
could not satisfactorily to himself derive from simpler elements. Of these about 500 seem to
be similar to I E forms with which I have compared them, and from them are derived more than
three-fourths of the 16,000 words in Dr. Rigg's dictionary.

The pronouns, prepositions and suffixes herein given seem to indicate that the Dakotas did
not separate from the Teutonic family till long after the latter separated from the South European
family. The fact that the Dak resembles the Icelandic and Gothic in vocabulary and in structure
much more than it resembles the older Latin, points in the same direction. The laws of consonantal
change in many cases produce the same result as Grimm's law, but the laws themselves are entirely
different. It is certain, therefore, that the Dakota has not been connected with the Teutonic
since the development of Grimm's law made any considerable progress. I have studied the question
less, yet I think I have enough evidence in the system of consonantal change to prove that
the Dakota has not been connected with the Slavonic or Lithuanian since they separated from
each other, or for some time previously. It is possible so far as I can now say that the Dak
may have borrowed material from some language not I E, but I have found no evidence of it.
Undoubtedly the adoption of prisoners has introduced a considerable percentage of Algonkin
blood. It is also certain that they have adopted some Chippewa religious observances, but even
in these they do not appear to have adopted any Chippewa words.

     FOOTNOTES:

     [Footnote J: A word of this kind used every day by the masses
     of all Teutonic people, and corresponding to the principal
     languages in such a variety of meanings, could not possibly be
     derived from the Latin finitum. Our fine may be in part from
     finitum, but fin--I E pin is certainly a Teut word.]

     [Footnote K: Words varied by inflection are classed as
     different words.]

     [Footnote L: Except that in accordance with euphonic laws
     initial k becomes ch sixteen times, and final a e seven
     times.]

     +--------------------------------------------------------------+
     | Transcriber's Note: Inconsistencies in the punctuation around|
     | abbreviations have been retained.                            |
     +--------------------------------------------------------------+