WILLY CROUP DOESN'T KNOW                                         7

  III. MISS NANCY SHOTT                                               16

  IV. A LAUNCH INTO A NEW LIFE                                        25

  V. A FUR-TRIMMED OVERCOAT AND A SILK HAT                            36

  VI. A TEMPERANCE LARK                                               45

  VII. MR. BURKE ACCEPTS A RESPONSIBILITY                             59

  VIII. MR. BURKE BEGINS TO MAKE THINGS MOVE IN PLAINTON              68

  IX. A MEETING OF HEIRS                                              80

  X. THE INTELLECT OF MISS INCHMAN                                    92

  XI. THE ARRIVAL OF THE NEW DINING-ROOM                              99

  XII. THE THORPEDYKE SISTERS                                        109

  XIII. MONEY HUNGER                                                 114

  XIV. WILLY CROUP AS A PHILANTHROPIC DIPLOMATIST                    121

  XV. MISS NANCY MAKES A CALL                                        128

  XVI. MR. BURKE MAKES A CALL                                        135

  XVII. MRS. CLIFF'S YACHT                                           147

  XVIII. THE DAWN OF THE GROVE OF THE INCAS                          156

  XIX. THE "SUMMER SHELTER"                                          162

  XX. THE SYNOD                                                      169

  XXI. A TELEGRAM FROM CAPTAIN HORN                                  173

  XXII. THE "SUMMER SHELTER" GOES TO SEA                             182

  XXIII. WILLY CROUP COMES TO THE FRONT                              192

  XXIV. CHANGES ON THE "SUMMER SHELTER"                              203

  XXV. A NOTE FOR CAPTAIN BURKE                                      218

  XXVI. "WE'LL STICK TO SHIRLEY!"                                    228

  XXVII. ON BOARD THE "DUNKERY BEACON"                               235

  XXVIII. THE PEOPLE ON THE "MONTEREY"                               247

  XXIX. THE "VITTORIO" FROM GENOA                                    254

  XXX. THE BATTLE OF THE MERCHANT SHIPS                              264

  XXXI. "SHE BACKED!"                                                273

  XXXII. A HEAD ON THE WATER                                         279

  XXXIII. 11° 30' 19" N. LAT. by 56° 10' 19" W. LONG.                286

  XXXIV. PLAINTON, MAINE                                             298

  LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

                                                                    PAGE

  BURKE DETERMINED TO GET NEAR ENOUGH TO HAIL THE
  "DUNKERY BEACON"                                         Frontispiece

  THE GENTLEMAN RAISED HIS HAT AND ASKED IF MRS. CLIFF
  LIVED THERE                                                         42

  MRS. CLIFF'S INVITATION WAS DISCUSSED WITH LIVELY
  APPRECIATION                                                       170

  THERE, FASTENED AGAINST THE FORE-MAST, WAS A LARGE
  PIECE OF PAPER                                                     194

  WHEN SHIRLEY WENT ON DECK HE WAS MUCH PLEASED TO
  SEE THE "SUMMER SHELTER"                                           238

  BANKER COULD NOT HOLD BACK                                         270

  HE SEIZED IT AND RAISED IT TO HIS SHOULDER                         290

  WILLY SAT AND LOOKED AT HIM                                        312

MRS. CLIFF'S YACHT

CHAPTER I

ALONE WITH HER WEALTH

On a beautiful September afternoon in a handsome room of one of the grand, up-town hotels in
New York sat Mrs. Cliff, widow and millionaire.

Widow of a village merchant, mistress of an unpretending house in the little town of Plainton,
Maine, and, by strange vicissitudes of fortune, the possessor of great wealth, she was on her
way from Paris to the scene of that quiet domestic life to which for nearly thirty years she
had been accustomed.

She was alone in the hotel; her friends, Captain Horn and his wife Edna, who had crossed the
ocean with her, had stayed but a few days in New York and had left early that afternoon for
Niagara, and she was here by herself in the hotel, waiting until the hour should arrive when
she would start on a night train for her home.

Her position was a peculiar one, altogether new to her. She was absolutely independent,--not
only could she do what she pleased, but there was no one to tell her what it would be well
for her to do, wise for her to do, or unwise. Everything she could possibly want was within
her reach, and there was no reason why she should not have everything she wanted.

For many months she had been possessed of enormous wealth, but never until this moment had
she felt herself the absolute, untrammelled possessor of it. Until now Captain Horn, to whom
she owed her gold, and the power it gave her, had been with her or had exercised an influence
over her. Until the time had come when he could avow the possession of his vast treasures,
it had been impossible for her to make known her share in them, and even after everything had
been settled, and they had all come home together in the finest state-rooms of a great ocean
liner, she had still felt dependent upon the counsels and judgment of her friends.

But now she was left absolutely free and independent, untrammelled, uncounselled, alone with
her wealth.

She rose and looked out of the window, and, as she gazed upon the crowd which swept up and
down the beautiful avenue, she could not but smile as she thought that she, a plain New England
countrywoman, with her gray hair brushed back from her brows, with hands a little hardened
and roughened with many a year of household duties, which had been to her as much a pleasure
as a labor, was in all probability richer than most of the people who sat in the fine carriages
or strolled in their fashionable clothes along the sidewalk.

"If I wanted to do it," she thought, "I could have one of those carriages with prancing horses
and a driver in knee breeches, or I could buy that house opposite, with its great front steps,
its balconies, and everything in it, but there is nobody on this earth who could tempt me to
live there."

"Now," said Mrs. Cliff to herself, as she turned from the window and selected a fresh easy
chair, and sank down into its luxurious depths, "there is nothing in this world so delightful
as to go back rich to Plainton. To be rich in Paris or New York is nothing to me; it would
simply mean that I should be a common person there as I used to be at home, and, for the matter
of that, a little more common."

As the good lady's thoughts wandered northward, and spread themselves from the railroad station
at Plainton all over the little town, she was filled with a great content and happiness to
go to her old home with her new money. This was a joy beyond anything she had dreamed of as
possible in this world.

But it was the conjunction of the two which produced this delightful effect upon her mind.
The money anywhere else, or Plainton without it, would not have made Mrs. Cliff the happy woman
that she was.

It pleased her to let her mind wander over the incidents of her recent visit to her old home,
the most unhappy visit she had ever made in all her life, but everything that was unpleasant
then would help to make everything more delightful in the present home-coming.

She thought of the mental chains and fetters she had worn when she went to Plainton with plenty
of money in her purse and a beautiful pair of California blankets in her handsome trunk; when
she had been afraid to speak of the one or to show the other; when she had sat quietly and
received charity from people whose houses and land, furniture, horses, and cows, she could
have bought and given away without feeling their loss; when she had been publicly berated by
Nancy Shott for spending money on luxuries which should have been used to pay her debts; when
she had been afraid to put her money in the bank for fear it would act as a dynamite bomb and
blow up the fortunes of her friends, and when she could find no refuge from the miseries brought
upon her by the necessity of concealing her wealth except to go to bed and cover up her head
so that she should not hear the knock of some inquiring neighbor upon her front door.

Then when she had made this background as dark and gloomy as it was possible to make it, she
placed before it the glittering picture of her new existence in Plainton.

But this new life, bright as it now appeared to her, was not to be begun without careful thought
and earnest consideration. Ever since her portion of the golden treasure had been definitely
assigned to her, the mind of Mrs. Cliff had been much occupied with plans for her future in
her old home.

It was not to be altogether a new life. All the friends she had in the world, excepting Captain
and Mrs. Horn, lived in Plainton. She did not wish to lose these friends,--she did not wish
to be obliged to make new ones. With simple-minded and honest Willy Croup, who had long lived
with her and for her; with Mrs. Perley, the minister's wife; with all her old neighbors and
friends, she wished to live as she had always lived, but, of course, with a difference. How
to manage, arrange, and regulate that difference was the great problem in her mind.

One thing she had determined upon: her money should not come between her and those who loved
her and who were loved by her. No matter what she might do or what she might not do, she would
not look down upon people simply because she was rich, and oh, the blessed thought which followed
that! There would be nobody who could look down upon her because she was not rich!

She did not intend to be a fine new woman; she did not intend to build a fine new house. She
was going to be the same Mrs. Cliff that she used to be,--she was going to live in the same
house. To be sure, she would add to it. She would have a new dining-room and a guest's chamber
over it, and she would do a great many other things which were needed, but she would live in
her old home where she and her husband had been so happy, and where she hoped he would look
down from heaven and see her happy until the end of her days.

As she thought of the things she intended to do, and of the manner in which she intended to
do them, Mrs. Cliff rose and walked the floor. She felt as if she were a bird, a common-sized
bird, perhaps, but with enormous wings which seemed to grow and grow the more she thought of
them until they were able to carry her so far and so high that her mind lost its power of directing
them.

She determined to cease to think of the future, of what was going to be, and to let her mind
rest and quiet itself with what really existed. Here she was in a great city full of wonders
and delights, of comforts, conveniences, luxuries, necessities, and all within her power. Almost
anything she could think of she might have; almost anything she wanted to do she might do.
A feeling of potentiality seemed to swell and throb within her veins. She was possessed of
an overpowering desire to do something now, this moment, to try the power of her wealth.

Near her on the richly papered wall was a little button. She could touch this and order--what
should she order? A carriage and prancing pair to take her to drive? She did not wish to drive.
A cab to take her to the shops, or an order to merchants to send her samples of their wares
that here, in her own room, like a queen or a princess, she might choose what she wanted and
think nothing of the cost? But no, she did not wish to buy anything. She had purchased in Paris
everything that she cared to carry to Plainton.

She went and stood by the electric button. She must touch it, and must have something! Her
gold must give her an instant proof that it could minister to her desires, but what should
she ask for? Her mind travelled over the whole field of the desirable, and yet not one salient
object presented itself. There was absolutely nothing that she could think of that she wished
to ask for at that moment. She was like a poor girl in a fairy tale to whom the good fairy
comes and asks her to make one wish and it shall be granted, and who stands hesitating and
trembling, not being able to decide what is the one great thing for which she should ask.

So stood Mrs. Cliff. There was a fairy, a powerful fairy, in her service who could give her
anything she desired, and with all her heart she wanted to want something that minute. What
should she want?

In her agitation she touched the bell. Half frightened at what she had done, she stepped back
and sat down. In a few minutes there was a knock, the door opened, a servant entered. "Bring
me a cup of tea," said Mrs. Cliff.

CHAPTER II

WILLY CROUP DOESN'T KNOW

The next afternoon as the train approached Plainton, Mrs. Cliff found herself a great deal
agitated as she thought of the platform at the station. Who would be there,--how should she
be met? With all her heart she hoped that there would not be anything like a formal reception,
and yet this was not improbable. Everybody knew she was coming; everybody knew by what train
she would arrive. She had written to Willy Croup, and she was very sure that everybody knew
everything that she had written. More than this, everybody knew that she was coming home rich.
How rich they were not aware, because she had not gone into particulars on this subject, but
they knew that the wealthy Mrs. Cliff would arrive at 5.20 that afternoon, and what were they
going to do about it?

When she had gone home before, all her friends and neighbors, and even distant acquaintances,--if
such people were possible in such a little town,--had come to her house to bid her welcome,
and many of them had met her at the station. But then they had come to meet a poor, shipwrecked
widow, pitied by most of them and loved by many. Even those who neither pitied nor loved her
had a curiosity to see her, for she had been shipwrecked, and it was not known in Plainton
how people looked after they had been wrecked.

But now the case was so different that Mrs. Cliff did not expect the same sort of greeting,
and she greatly feared formality. If Mr. Perley should appear on the platform, surrounded by
some of the leading members of his congregation, and should publicly take her by the hand and
bid her "Welcome home!" and if those who felt themselves entitled to do so, should come forward
and shake hands with her, while others, who might feel that they belonged to a different station
in life, should keep in the background and wait until she came to speak to them, she would
be deeply hurt.

After all, Plainton and the people in it were dearer to her than anything else in the world,
and it would be a great shock if she should meet formality where she looked for cordial love.
She wanted to see Mr. Perley,--he was the first person she had seen when she came home before,--but
now she hoped that he would not be there. She was very much afraid that he would make a stiff
speech to her; and if he did that, she would know that there had been a great change, and that
the friends she would meet were not the same friends she had left. She was almost afraid to
look out of the window as the train slowed up at the station.

The minds of the people of Plainton had been greatly exercised about this home-coming of Mrs.
Cliff. That afternoon it was probable that no other subject of importance was thought about
or talked about in the town, and for some days before the whole matter had been so thoroughly
considered and discussed that the good citizens, without really coming to any fixed and general
decision upon the subject, had individually made up their minds that, no matter what might
happen afterward, they would make no mistake upon this very important occasion which might
subsequently have an influence upon their intercourse with their old, respected neighbor, now
millionnaire. Each one for himself, or herself, decided--some of them singly and some of them
in groups--that as they did not know what sort of a woman Mrs. Cliff had become since the change
in her circumstances, they would not place themselves in false positions. Other people might
go and meet her at the station, but they would stay at home and see what happened. Even Mr.
Perley thought it wise, under the circumstances, to do this.

Therefore it was, that when Mrs. Cliff stepped down upon the platform, she saw no one there
but Willy Croup. If Mrs. Cliff was a little shocked and a good deal surprised to find no one
to meet her but that simple-minded dependant and relative, her emotions were excited in a greater
degree by the manner in which she was greeted by this old friend and companion.

Instead of rushing toward her with open arms,--for Willy was an impulsive person and given
to such emotional demonstrations,--Miss Croup came forward, extending a loosely filled black
cotton glove. Her large, light-blue eyes showed a wondering interest, and Mrs. Cliff felt that
every portion of her visible attire was being carefully scanned.

For a moment Mrs. Cliff hesitated, and then she took the hand of Willy Croup and shook it,
but she did not speak. She had no command of words, at least for greeting.

Willy earnestly inquired after her health, and said how glad she was to see her, but Mrs. Cliff
did not listen. She looked about her. For an instant she thought that possibly the train had
come in ahead of time, but this, of course, was absurd--trains never did that.

"Willy," she said, her voice a little shaken, "has anything happened? Is anybody sick?"

"Oh no!" said Willy; "everybody is well, so far as I know. I guess you are wondering why there
is nobody here to meet you, and I have been wondering at that too. They must have thought that
you did not want to be bothered when you were attending to your baggage and things. Is anybody
with you?"

"With me!" exclaimed Mrs. Cliff; "who could be with me?"

"Oh, I didn't know," replied the other; "I thought perhaps you might have a maidservant, or
some of those black people you wrote about."

Mrs. Cliff was on the point of telling Willy she was a fool, but she refrained.

"Here is the baggage-man," said Willy, "and he wants your checks."

As Mrs. Cliff took the little pieces of brass from her purse and handed them to the man, Willy
looked on in amazement.

"Good gracious!" she exclaimed. "Seven! I guess you had to pay for extra baggage. Shall I get
you a carriage, and where do you want to be driven to--to your own house or the hotel?"

Now Mrs. Cliff could not restrain herself. "What is the matter with you, Willy? Have you gone
crazy?" she exclaimed. "Of course I am going to my own house, and I do not want any carriage.
Did I ever need a carriage to take me such a short distance as that? Tell the man to bring
some one with him to carry the trunks upstairs, and then come on."

"Let me carry your bag," said Willy, as the two walked away from the station at a much greater
pace, it may be remarked, than Willy was accustomed to walk.

"No, you shall not carry my bag," said Mrs. Cliff, and not another word did she speak until
she had entered the hallway of her home. Then, closing the door behind her, and without looking
around at any of the dear objects for a sight of which she had so long been yearning, she turned
to her companion.

"Willy," she cried, "what does this mean? Why do you treat me in this way when I come home
after having been away so long, and having suffered so much? Why do you greet me as if you
took me for a tax collector? Why do you stand there like a--a horrible clam?"

Willy hesitated. She looked up and she looked down.

"Things are so altered," she said, "and I didn't know--"

"Well, know now," said Mrs. Cliff, as she held out her arms. In a moment the two women were
clasped in a tight embrace, kissing and sobbing.

"How should I know?" said poor Willy, as she was wiping her eyes. "Chills went down me as I
stood on that platform, wondering what sort of a grand lady you would look like when you got
out of the car, with two servant women, most likely, and perhaps a butler, and trying to think
what I should say."

Mrs. Cliff laughed. "You were born addle-pated, and you can't help it. Now, let us go through
this house without wasting a minute!" Willy gazed at her in amazement.

"You're just the same as you always was!" she cried "Indeed I am!" said Mrs. Cliff. "Did you
clean this dining-room yourself, Willy? It looks as spick and span as if I had just left it."

"Indeed it does," was the proud reply, "and you couldn't find a speck of dust from the ceiling
to the floor!"

When Mrs. Cliff had been upstairs and downstairs, and in the front yard, the side yard, and
the back yard, and when her happy eyes had rested upon all her dear possessions, she went into
the kitchen.

"Now, Willy," she said, "let us go to work and get supper, for I must say I am hungry."

At this Willy Croup turned pale, her chin dropped, a horrible suspicion took possession of
her. Could it be possible that it was all a mistake, or that something dreadful had happened;
that the riches which everybody had been talking about had never existed, or had disappeared?
She might want to go to her old home; she might want to see her goods and chattels, but that
she should want to help get supper--that was incomprehensible! At that moment the world looked
very black to Willy. If Mrs. Cliff had gone into the parlor, and had sat down in the best rocking-chair
to rest herself, and had said to her, "Please get supper as soon as you can," Willy would have
believed in everything, but now--!

The grinding of heavy wheels was heard in front of the house, and Willy turned quickly and
looked out of the window. There was a wagon containing seven enormous trunks! Since the days
when Plainton was a little hamlet, up to the present time, when it contained a hotel, a bank,
a lyceum, and a weekly paper, no one had ever arrived within its limits with seven such trunks.
Instantly the blackness disappeared from before the mind of Willy Croup.

"Now, you tell the men where to carry them," she cried, "and I will get the supper in no time!
Betty Handshall stayed here until this morning, but she went away after dinner, for she was
afraid if she stayed she would be in the way, not knowing how much help you would bring with you."

"I wonder if they are all crack-brained," thought Mrs. Cliff, as she went to the front door
to attend to her baggage.

That evening nearly all Plainton came to see Mrs. Cliff. No matter how she returned,--as a
purse-proud bondholder, as a lady of elegant wealth with her attendants, as an old friend suddenly
grown jolly and prosperous,--it would be all right for her neighbors to go in and see her in
the evening. There they might suit themselves to her new deportment whatever it might be, and
there would be no danger of any of them getting into false positions, which would have been
very likely indeed if they had gone to meet her at the station.

