BLACKWOOD'S EDINBURGH MAGAZINE

No. CCCXXXIII. JULY, 1843. VOL. LIV.

CONTENTS.

MARSTON; OR, THE MEMOIRS OF A STATESMAN. PART II. ENGLISH MUSIC AND ENGLISH MUSICIANS. PHILHELLENIC
DRINKING-SONG. BY B. SIMMONS. THE PRAIRIE AND THE SWAMP. AN ADVENTURE IN LOUISIANA. THE ARISTOCRACY
OF ENGLAND. JACK STUART'S BET ON THE DERBY, AND HOW HE PAID HIS LOSSES. SCROPE ON SALMON FISHING.
THE WHIPPIAD, A SATIRICAL POEM. BY REGINALD HEBER. CHARLES EDWARD AT VERSAILLES. EARLY GREEK
ROMANCES--THE ETHIOPICS OF HELIODORUS. PAST AND PRESENT, BY CARLYLE.

       *       *       *       *       *

MARSTON; OR, THE MEMOIRS OF A STATESMAN.

PART II.

My entertainer received me with more civility than I had expected. He was almost fashionably
dressed; his grim features were smoothed into an elaborate smile; and he repeated his gratification
at seeing me, in such variety of tones that I began to doubt the cordiality of my reception.
But I could have no doubt of the elegance of the apartment into which I was shown. All was
foreign, even to the flowers in the vases that filled the windows. A few bas-reliefs in the
most finished style; a few alabasters as bright as if they had been brought at the moment from
Carrara; a few paintings of the Italian masters, if not original and of the highest value,
at least first-rate copies--caught the eye at once: the not too much, the not too little, that
exact point which it requires so much skill to touch, showed that the eye of taste had been
every where; and I again thought of the dungeon in the city, and asked myself whether it was
possible that Mordecai could be the worker of the miracle.

Naturally making him some acknowledgment for his invitation, and saying some civil thing of
his taste, he laughed, and said, "I have but little merit in the matter. All this is my daughter's.
Moorfields is my house; this house is Mariamne's. As our origin and connexions are foreign,
we make use of our opportunities to indulge ourselves in these foreign trifles. But we have
a little 'réunion' of our neighbours this evening, and I must first make you known to the lady
of the fête." He rang the bell.

"Neighbours!" said I; "all round me, as I came, seemed solitude; and yours is so beautiful,
that I almost think society would injure its beauty."

"Well, well, Mr Marston, you shall see. But this I advise you, take care of your heart if you
are susceptible."

A servant announced that his mistress would attend us in a few minutes, and I remained examining
the pictures and the prospect; when a gay voice, and the opening of a door, made me turn round
to pay my homage to the lady. I had made up my mind to see one of the stately figures and magnificent
countenances which are often to be found in the higher orders of the daughters of Israel. I
saw, on the contrary, one of the gayest countenances and lightest figures imaginable--the petit
nez retroussé, and altogether much more the air of a pretty Parisian than one of the superb
race of Zion. Her manner was as animated as her eyes, and with the ease of foreign life she
entered into conversation; and in a few minutes we laughed and talked together, as if we had
been acquaintances from our cradles.

The history of the house was simply, that "she hated town and loved the country; that she loved
the sea better than the land, and loved society of her own selection better than society forced
upon her.--On the sea-shore she found all that she liked, and escaped all that she hated. She
therefore lived on the sea-shore.--She had persuaded her father to build that house, and they
had furnished it according to their own recollections, and even their own whims.--Caprice was
liberty, and liberty was essential to the enjoyment of every thing. Thus, she loved caprice,
and laid herself open to the charge of being fantastic with those who did not understand her."

In this sportive way she ran on, saying all kinds of lively nothings; while we drank our coffee
out of Saxon porcelain which would have shone on the table of a crowned head.

The windows were thrown open, and we sat enjoying the noblest of all scenes, a glorious sunset,
to full advantage. The fragrance of the garden stole in, a "steam of rich distilled perfumes;"
the son of the birds, in those faint and interrupted notes which come with such sweetness in
the parting day; the distant hum of the village, and the low solemn sound of the waves subsiding
on the beach, made a harmony of their own, perhaps more soothing and subduing than the most
refined touches of human skill. We wanted nothing but an Italian moon to realize the loveliness
of the scene in Belmont.

As I glanced on the little, superbly dressed Jewess, sitting between her father and myself,
I thought of the possibilities to come.

We soon after had the moon herself, rising broad and bright from the ocean; and all was romance,
until a party were seen coming up the avenue, laughing and talking very sportively.

"I beg a thousand apologies; but I had forgotten to mention that we have a small dance this
evening, chiefly foreign, and, as you may perceive, they keep early hours," said Jessica, rising
to receive them.

"They are French, and emigrants," added Mordecai. "All is over with them and theirs in France,
and they have made the best of their way to England, therein acting more wisely than those
who have stayed behind. I know France well; the 'tigre-singe,' as their countryman described
them. These unfortunates have been consigned to me by my correspondents, like so many bales
of silks, or barrels of Medoc. But here they come."

I certainly was not prepared for the names which I now heard successively announced. Instead
of the moderate condition from which I had supposed Mordecai and his pretty daughter, aspiring
as she was, to have chosen their society, I found myself in a circle of names of which the
world had been talking since I was in my cradle, if not for a dozen centuries before. I was
in the midst of dukes, counts, and chevaliers, maréchals and marchionesses, the patrons and
patronesses of the Marmontels and D'Alemberts, the charm of the Du Deffand soirées, and the
originals for the charming piquancies and exquisite impertinences of L'Espinasse, and the coterieisme
of Paris.

All that I had seen of the peerage of our haughty country was dim and dull to the gay glitter
of the crowd around me. Nature never moulded two national characters so distinct in all points,
but the French exterior carries all before it. Diamonds and decorations sparkled on every side.
The dresses of the women were as superb as if they had never known fear or flight; and the
conversation was as light, sportive, and badinant, as if we were all waiting in the antechamber
of Versailles till the chamberlain of Marie Antoinette should signify the royal pleasure to
receive us. Here was stateliness to the very summit of human pride, but it was softened by
the taste of its display; the most easy familiarity, yet guarded by the most refined distinctions
The bon-mot was uttered with such natural avoidance of offence, and the arch allusion was so
gracefully applied, that the whole gave me the idea of a new use of language. They were artistes
of conversation, professors of a study of society, as much as painters might be of the style
of the Bolognese or the Venetian school.

I was delighted, but I was still more deeply interested; for the chief topics of the evening
were those on which public curiosity was most anxiously alive at the moment--the hazards of
the revolutionary tempest, which they had left raging on the opposite shore. Yet, "Vive la
France!" we had our cotillon, and our songs to harp and piano, notwithstanding the shock of
governments.

But we had scarcely sat down to the supper which Mordecai's hospitality and his daughter's
taste had provided for us--and a most costly display of plate and pine-apples it was--when
our entertainer was called out of the room by a new arrival. After some delay, he returned,
bringing in with him a middle-aged officer, a fine soldierly-looking figure, in the uniform
of the royal guard. He had just arrived from France with letters for some of the party, and
with an introduction to the Jew, whom I now began to regard as an agent of the French princes.
The officer was known to the whole table; and the enquiries for the fate of their friends and
France were incessant and innumerable. He evidently suppressed much, to avoid "a scene;" yet
what he had to tell was sufficiently alarming. The ominous shake of the Jew's head, and the
changes of his sagacious visage, showed me that he at least thought the evil day on the point
of completion.

"Living," said he, "at this distance from the place of events which succeed each other with
such strange rapidity, we can scarcely judge of any thing. But, if the king would rely more
on his peasantry and less on his populace, and more on his army than either, he might be king
of France still."

"True!--true!" was the general acclamation.

"He should have clung to his noblesse, like Henri Quatre," said a duke.

"He should have made common cause with his clergy," said a prelate, with the physiognomy of
one of Titian's cardinals.

"Any thing but the Tiers Etat," was uttered by all, with a general voice of horror.

"My letters of this evening," said Mordecai, "tell me that the fête at Versailles has had dangerous
consequences."

"Ciel!" exclaimed a remarkably handsome woman of middle age, with the "air noble" in every
feature. "Pardon me, it must be an error. I was present. It was the most brilliant of all possible
réunions. It was a pledge to the salvation of France. I hear the sound of 'Richard, O mon Roi!'
in my ear at this moment. When, oh when, shall I hear it again!" She burst into a passion of tears.

The name was electric. All began that very charming air at the moment. Sobs and sighs stole
in between the pauses of the harmony. Their rich and practised voices gave it the sweetness
and solemnity of a hymn. Fine eyes were lifted to heaven; fine faces were buried in their clasped
hands; and the whole finished like the subsidence of a prayer.

But madame la duchesse was full of her subject, and we were full of curiosity. We implored
her to give us some idea of a scene, of which all Europe was thinking and talking. She required
no importunity, but told her tale with the majesty of a Clairon. It was at first all exclamation.
"O my king!--O my unhappy but noble queen!--O my beloved but noble France! O Richard! O mon
Roi!--Le monde vous abandonné!" She again wept, and we again sympathized.

"For weeks," said she, "we had been tortured at Versailles with reports from the capital. We
lived in a perpetual fever. The fury of the populace was terrible. The wretches who inflamed
it constantly threatened to lead the armed multitude to the palace. We were almost without
defence. The ministers could not be prevailed on to order the advance of the troops, and we
felt our lives from hour to hour dependent on chance."

"It was my month of waiting as lady of honour. I found the queen always firm; or, if she ever
trembled, it was at the want of firmness in others. She had made up her mind for the worst
long before. She often said to me, in those revolutionary nights when we sat listening for
the sound of the cannon or the tocsin from Paris--'France is an abyss, in which the throne
must sink. But sovereigns may be undone--they must not be disgraced.' The world never possessed
a more royal mind.

"At length an opportunity seemed to offer of showing the true feeling of the court to the army.
The regiment of Flanders had come to take its tour of service at the palace, and the garde
du corps had sent them an invitation to a grand military banquet. There was nothing new, and
could have been nothing suspicious, in the invitation; for it was the custom of the garde,
on the arrival of any regiment at Versailles, as a commencement of mutual civility. The regiment
of Flanders was a distinguished corps--but the whole army had been tampered with; and the experiment
was for the first time a doubtful one. As if to make it still more doubtful, the invitation
was extended to the national guard of Versailles."

Every eye was now fixed on the narrator, as she went on with increasing animation.

"Never was there a day of greater anxiety. We were sure of the garde du corps; but treachery
was roving through France, and the banquet might only produce a collision. The entertainment,
by being in the opera salon, was actually within the palace, and all the royal suite remained
in the royal apartments, in fear and trembling, during the entire day.

"But as the night advanced, the intelligence, which was brought to us every five minutes from
the salon, became more tranquillizing. The coldness which had existed in the beginning between
the garde and the troops of the line had vanished, and loyal healths, gay speeches, and charming
songs succeeded. At length a gallant young lieutenant of the garde, in a fit of noble enthusiasm,
cried--'We all are the soldiers of France--we all are loyal, all are happy--Why shall not our
king witness our loyalty and our happiness?' The tidings were instantly conveyed to the royal
apartments. The king rose--the court followed. We entered the salon. Oh, that sight!--so new,
so touching, so indescribable!"

Her voice sank for a moment. She recovered herself, and proceeded--

"The queen leaned on the arm of the king, the dauphin and dauphiness followed; Madame Elizabeth,
that saint on earth if ever there was one, headed the ladies of the court. All rose at our
entrance; we were received with one acclamation. The sight is still before me. I had seen all
that was brilliant in the courts of Europe. But this moment effaced them all. The most splendid
salle on earth, crowded with uniforms, all swords drawn and waving in the light, all countenances
turned on the king, all one shout of triumph, loyalty, and joy! Alas! alas! was it to be the
last beat of the national heart? Alas! alas! was it to be the last flash of the splendour of
France; the dazzling illumination of the catafalque of the Bourbons; the bright burst of flame
from the funeral pile of the monarchy?"

Her voice sank into silence; for the first time unbroken throughout the room.

At length, to relieve the pause, Mordecai expressed something of a hope that the royal family
slept in peace, for that one night at least.

"I really cannot tell," briskly said the fair narrator. "But I know that the ladies of the
court did not. As the king retired, and we remained in the opera boxes to amuse ourselves a
little with the display, we heard, to our astonishment, a proposal that the tables should be
cleared away, and the ladies invited to a dance upon the spot. The proposal was instantly followed
by the officers climbing into the boxes, and by our tearing up our pocket-handkerchiefs to
make them cockades. We descended, and danced loyally till daybreak."

"With nothing less than field-officers, I hope?" said a superb cavalier, with a superb smile.

"I hope so too," laughed the lady; "though really I can answer for nothing but that the cotillon
was excessively gay--that our partners, if not the best dancers upon earth--I always honour
the garde du corps,"--and she bowed to the captain; "were the most obliged persons possible."

"Ah, but roturiers, madame!" said a stiff old duke, with a scorn worthy of ten generations
of ribands of St Louis.

"True; it was most melancholy, when one comes to reflect upon it," said the lady, with an elevation
of her alabaster shoulders to the very tips of her ears. "But on that evening roturiers were
in demand--popularity was every thing; the bourgeoisie of Versailles were polished by their
friction against the garde du corps. And I am sure, that if the same experiment, distressing
as it might be, were tried in every opera salon in the provinces, and we had longer dances
and shorter harangues, more fiddles and fewer patriots, all would be well again in our 'belle
France.'"

"But--your news, monsieur le capitaine," was the demand all round the table.

"I almost dread to allude to it," said the captain, "as it may seem to contradict the opinion
of madame la duchesse; yet I am afraid that we shall have to regret this fête as one of the
most disastrous events to the king." He stopped. But the interest of the time overcame all
other considerations. "Ah, gallantry apart, let us hear!" was the general voice; and, with
every eye instantly fixed on him, and in the midst of lips breathless with anxiety, and bosoms
beating with terror at every turn of the tale, the captain gave us his fearful narrative:--

"The banquet of the 1st of October," said he, "had delighted us all; but its consequences,
which, I quite agree with madame, ought to have restored peace, were fatal. It lulled Versailles
into a false security, at the moment when it roused Paris into open rebellion. The leaders
of the populace, dreading the return of the national attachment to our good king, resolved
to strike a blow which should shake the monarchy. Happening to be sent to Paris on duty next
day, I was astonished to find every thing in agitation--The workmen all in the streets; the
orators of the Palais Royal all on their benches, declaiming in the most furious manner. Crowds
of women rushing along the Boulevards, singing their barbarous revolutionary songs; some even
brandishing knives and carrying pikes, and all frantic against the fête. As I passed down the
Rue St Honoré, I stopped to listen to the harangue of a half-naked ruffian, who had made a
rostrum of the shoulders of two of the porters of the Halle, and, from this moving tribune,
harangued the multitude as he went along. Every falsehood, calumny, and abomination that could
come from the lips of man, were poured out by the wretch before me. The sounds of 'Vive Marat!'
told me his name. I afterwards heard that he lived on the profits of a low journal, in a cellar,
with a gang of wretches constantly drunk, and thus was only the fitter for the rabble. He told
them that there was a conspiracy on foot to massacre the patriots of Paris; that the troops
from the provinces were coming, by order of the king, to put man, woman, and child to the sword;
that the fête at Marseilles was given to the vanguard of the army to pledge them to this terrible
purpose; that the governors of the provinces were all in the league of blood; and that the
bakers of Paris had received an order from Versailles to put poison in all their loaves within
the next twenty-four hours. 'Frenchmen,' exclaimed this livid villain, tearing his hair, and
howling with the wildness of a demoniac, 'do you love your wives and children? Will you suffer
them to die in agonies before your eyes? Wait, and you will have nothing to do but dig their
graves. Advance, and you will have nothing to do but drive the tyrant, with his horde of priests
and nobles, into the Seine. Pause, and you are massacred. Arm, and you are invincible.' He
was answered by shouts of vengeance.

"I remained that night at the headquarters of the staff of Paris, the Hotel de Ville. I was
awakened before daybreak by the sound of a drum; and, on opening my eyes, was startled by lights
flashing across the ceiling of the room where I slept. Shots followed; and it was evident that
there was a conflict in the streets. I buckled on my sabre hastily, and, taking my pistols,
went to join the staff. I found them in the balcony in front of the building, maintaining a
feeble fire against the multitude. The night was dark as pitch, cold and stormy, and except
for the sparkle of the muskets from below, and the blaze of the torches in the hands of our
assailants, we could scarcely have conjectured by whom we were attacked. This continued until
daylight; when we at last got sight of our enemy. Never was there a more tremendous view. Every
avenue to the Place de Grève seemed pouring in its thousands and tens of thousands. Pikes,
bayonets on poles, and rusty muskets, filled the eye as far as it could reach. Flags, with
all kinds of atrocious inscriptions against the king and queen, were waving in the blast; drums,
horns, and every uncouth noise of the raging million filled the air. And in front of this innumerable
mass pressed on a column of desperadoes, headed by a woman, or a man disguised as a woman,
beating a drum, and crying out, in the intervals of every roar, 'Bread, bread!'

"To resist was evidently hopeless, or only to provoke massacre; but I had already dispatched
an express to the officer in command at the Tuileries, to come and save the arms and ammunition
deposited at the Hotel de Ville; and we expected the reinforcement from minute to minute. While
my eyes turned, in this fever of life and death, towards the quarter from which the troops
were to come, a sudden shout from the multitude made me look round; a fellow, perhaps one of
the funambules of the Fauxbourg theatres, was climbing up to the belfry by a rope, with the
agility of a monkey. His purpose was seen by us at once, and seen with fresh alarm; for, if
he had been able to reach the great bell, the terrible 'tocsin' would have aroused the country
for ten leagues round, and have poured a hundred thousand armed peasantry into Paris. I pointed
him out to the guard, and they fired a volley at him as he swung above their heads. They missed
him, the populace shouted, and the fellow, taking off his cap and waving it in triumph, still
climbed on. I next fired both my pistols at him; which was the luckier of the two I cannot
tell, but I saw him stagger just as he planted his foot on the battlement; he was evidently
hit, and a general yell from the multitude told that they saw it too; he made a convulsive
spring to secure himself, fell back, lost his hold, and plunged headlong from a height of a
hundred and fifty feet to the ground! Another tried the same adventure, and with the same fate;
three in succession were shot; but enthusiasm or madness gave them courage, and at length half
a dozen making the attempt together, the belfry was reached, and the tocsin was rung. Its effect
was terrible. The multitude seemed to be inspired with a new spirit of rage as they heard its
clang. Every bell in Paris soon began to clang in succession. The din was deafening; the populace
seemed to become more daring and desperate every moment; all was uproar. I could soon see the
effect of the tocsin in the new crowds which recruited our assailants from all sides. Their
fire became heavier; still, in the spirit of men fighting for their lives, we kept them at
bay till the last cartridge was in our muskets. But, at the moment of despair, we saw the distant
approach of the reinforcement from the Tuileries; and breathed for an instant. Yet, judge of
our astonishment, when it had no sooner entered the crowd, than, instead of driving the wretches
before them, we saw the soldiers scatter, mix, and actually fraternize with the canaille; a
general scene of embracing and huzzaing followed, the shakos were placed on the heads of the
rabble, the hats and caps of the rabble were hoisted on the soldiers' bayonets; and to our
horror alike at their treachery and our inevitable destruction, the troops wearing the king's
uniform, pushed forward, heading the column of insurrection. We fired our last volley, and
all was over. The multitude burst into the hotel like a torrent. All our party were either
killed or wounded. For the last half hour we had not a hundred men able to pull a trigger against
a fire from the streets, from windows, and from house tops, on every side of the squares. That
any one of us escaped from the showers of bullets is a miracle. My own escape was the merest
chance. On the first rush of the crowd into the hall, I happened to come in contact with one
of the leaders of the party, a horrid-looking ruffian in a red cap, who roared out that he
had marked me for bringing down the citizen climber up the belfry. The fellow fired his pistol
so close to my face that it scorched me. In the agony of the pain I rushed on him; he drew
his sabre and attempted to cut me down; but my sword was already out, and I anticipated him
by a blow which finished his patriotism, at least in this world. In the next moment, I was
trampled down, and we fell together."

I can of course offer but an imperfect transcript of the brave guardsman's narrative; seconded
as it was by an intelligent countenance, and that national vividness of voice and gesture which
often tell so much more than words. But, to describe its effect on his auditory is impossible.
Every countenance was riveted on him, every change of those extraordinary scenes was marked
by a new expression of every face round the table. Sighs and tears, wringing hands, and eyes
turned on heaven, were universal evidences of the interest excited by his fearful detail. Yet,
unused as I was to this quick emotion among my own sober countrymen, I could scarcely wonder
even at its wildness. They were listening to the fate of all that belonged to them by affection,
loyalty, hope, and possession, on this side of the grave. Every hour was big with the destinies
of their king, their relations, and their country. On the events happening, even at the moment,
depended, whether a deluge of blood might not roll over France, whether flame might not be
devouring their ancient castles, whether they might not be doomed to mendicancy in a strange
land, wanderers through the earth, without a spot whereon to lay their head, fugitives forever.
Yet the anxiety for those left behind was of a still deeper dye; the loved, the familiar, the
honoured, all involved in a tide of calamity, irresistible by human strength or skill.--All
so near, yet all so lost; like the crew of some noble ship hopelessly struggling with the winds
and waves, within sight of the shore, within reach almost of the very voices of their friends,
yet at the mercy of a tremendous element which forbade their ever treading on firm ground.

But there was still much to tell; the fate of the royal family was the general question; and
the remainder of the melancholy tale was given with manly sensibility.

"When I recovered my senses it was late in the day; and I found myself in humble room, with
only an old woman for my attendant; but my wounds bandaged, and every appearance of my having
fallen into friendly hands. The conjecture was true. I was in the house of one of my father's
gardes de chasse, who, having commenced tavern-keeper in the Fauxbourg St Antoine some years
back, and being a thriving man, had become a 'personage' in his section, and was now a captain
in the Fédérés. Forced, malgré, to join the march to the Hotel de Ville, he had seen me in
the mêlée, and dragged me from under a heap of killed and wounded. To his recollection I probably
owed my life; for the patriots mingled plunder with their principles, stripped all the fallen,
and the pike and dagger finished the career of many of the wounded. It happened, too, that
I could not have fallen into a better spot for information. My cidevant garde de chasse was
loyal to the midriff; but his position as the master of a tavern, made his house a rendezvous
of the leading patriots of his section. Immediately after their victory of the morning, a sort
of council was held on what they were to do next; and the room where I lay being separated
from their place of meeting only by a slight partition, I could hear every syllable of their
speeches, which, indeed, they took no pains to whisper; they clearly thought that Paris was
their own. Lying on my bed, I learned that the attack on the Hotel de Ville was only a part
of a grand scheme of operations; that an insurrection was to be organized throughout France;
that the king was to be deposed, and a 'lieutenant of the kingdom' appointed, until the sovereign
people had declared their will; and that the first movement was to be a march of all the Parisian
sections to Versailles. I should have started from my pillow, to spring sabre in hand among
the traitors; but I was held down by my wounds, and perhaps still more by the entreaties of
my old attendant, who protested against my stirring, as it would be instantly followed by her
murder and that of every inmate of the house. The club now proceeded to enjoy themselves after
the labours of the day. They had a republican carouse. Their revels were horrible. They speedily
became intoxicated, sang, danced, embraced, fought, and were reconciled again. Then came the
harangues; each orator exceeding his predecessor in blasphemy, till all was execration, cries
of vengeance against kings and priests, and roars of massacre. I there heard the names of men
long suspected, but of whom they now spoke openly as the true leaders of the national movement;
and of others marked for assassination. They drank toasts to Death, to Queen Poissarde, and
to Goddess Guillotine. It was a pandemonium.

"A drum at length beat the 'Alarme' in the streets; the orgie was at an end, and amid a crash
of bottles and glasses, they staggered, as well as their feet could carry them, out of the
house. They were received by the mob with shouts of laughter. But the column moved forward;
to the amount of thousands, as I could judge by their trampling, and the clashing of their
arms. When the sound had died away in the distance, my humble friend entered my room, thanking
his stars that 'he had contrived to escape this march.'

"'Where are they gone?' I asked.

"'To Versailles,' was his shuddering answer.

"Nothing could now detain me. After one or two helpless efforts to rise from my bed, and an
hour or two of almost despair, I succeeded in getting on my feet, and procuring a horse. Versailles
was now my only object. I knew all the importance of arriving at the palace at the earliest
moment; I knew the unprotected state of the king, and knew that it was my place to be near
his person in all chances. I was on the point of sallying forth in my uniform, when the precaution
of my friend forced me back; telling me, truly enough, that, in the ferment of the public mind,
it would be impossible for me to reach Versailles as a garde du corps, and that my being killed
or taken, would effectually prevent me from bearing any information of the state of the capital.
This decided me; and, disguised as a courier, I set out by a cross-road in hope to arrive before
the multitude.

"But I had not gone above a league when I fell in with a scattered platoon of the mob, who
were rambling along as if on a party of pleasure; tossing their pikes and clashing their sabres
to all kinds of revolutionary songs. I was instantly seized, as a 'courier of the Aristocrats.'
Their sagacity, once at work, found out a hundred names for me:--I was a 'spy of Pitt,' an
'agent of the Austrians,' a 'disguised priest,' and an 'emigrant noble;' my protestations were
in vain, and they held a court-martial, on me and my horse, on the road; and ordered me to
deliver up my despatches, on pain of being piked on the spot. But I could give up none; for
the best of all possible reasons. Every fold of my drapery was searched, and then I was to
be piked for not having despatches; it being clear that I was more than a courier, and that
my message was too important to be trusted to pen and ink. I was now in real peril; for the
party had continued to sing and drink until they had nearly made themselves frantic; and as
Versailles was still a dozen miles off, and they were unlikely to annihilate the garrison before
nightfall, they prepared to render their share of service to their country by annihilating
me. In this real dilemma, my good genius interposed, in the shape of an enormous poissarde;
who, rushing through the crowd, which she smote with much the same effect as an elephant would
with his trunk, threw her huge arms round me, called me her cher Jacques, poured out a volley
of professional eloquence on the shrinking heroes, and proclaimed me her son returning from
the army! All now was sentiment. The poissarde was probably in earnest, for her faculties were
in nearly the same condition with those of her fellow patriots. I was honoured with a general
embrace, and shared the privilege of the travelling bottle. As the night was now rapidly falling,
an orator proposed that the overthrow of the monarchy should be deferred till the next day.
A Fédéré uniform was provided for me; I was hailed as a brother; we pitched a tent, lighted
fires, cooked a supper, and bivouacked for the night. This was, I acknowledge, the first night
of my seeing actual service since the commencement of my soldiership.

"In ten minutes the whole party were asleep. I arose, stole away, left my newly found mother
to lament her lost son again, and with a heavy heart took the road to Versailles. The night
had changed to sudden tempest, and the sky grown dark as death. It was a night for the fall
of a dynasty. But there was a lurid blaze in the distant horizon, and from time to time a shout,
or a sound of musketry, which told me only too well where Versailles lay. I need not say what
my feelings were while I was traversing that solitary road, yet within hearing of this tremendous
mass of revolt; or what I imagined in every roar, as it came mingled with the bellowing of
the thunder. The attack might be commencing at the moment; the blaze that I saw might be the
conflagration of the palace; the roar might be the battle over the bodies of the royal family.
I never passed three hours in such real anxiety of mind, and they were deepened by the total
loneliness of the whole road. I did not meet a single human being; for the inhabitants of the
few cottages had fled, or put out all their lights, and shut themselves up in their houses.
The multitude had rushed on, leaving nothing but silence and terror behind.

"The church clocks were striking three in the morning when I arrived at Versailles, after the
most exhausting journey that I had ever made. But there, what a scene met my eye! It was beyond
all that I had ever imagined of ferocity and rabble triumph. Though it was still night, the
multitude thronged the streets; the windows were all lighted up, huge fires were blazing in
all directions, torches were carried about at the head of every troop of the banditti; it was
the bivouac of a hundred thousand bedlamites. It was now that I owned the lucky chance which
had made me a Fédéré. In any other dress I should have been a suspicious person, and have probably
been put to death; but in the brown coat, sabre, and red cap of the Sectionaire, I was fraternized
with in all quarters. My first object was to approach the palace, if possible. But there I
found a cordon of the national guard drawn up, who had no faith even in my mob costume; and
was repelled. I could only see at a distance, drawn up in front of the palace, a strong line
of troops--the regiment of Flanders and the Swiss battalion. All in the palace was darkness.
It struck me as the most funereal sight that I had ever beheld.

"In my disappointment I wandered through the town. The night was rainy, and gusts of wind tore
every thing before them, yet the armed populace remained carousing in the streets--all was
shouting, oaths, and execrations against the royal family. Some groups were feasting on the
plunder of the houses of entertainment, others were dancing and roaring the 'Carmagnole.' One
party had broken into the theatre, and dressed themselves in the spoils of the wardrobe; others
were drilling, and exhibiting their skill by firing at the king's arms hung over the shops
of the restaurateurs. Those shops were crowded with hundreds eating and drinking at free cost.
All the cafés and gaming-houses were lighted from top to bottom. The streets were a solid throng,
and almost as bright as at noonday, and the jangling of all the Savoyard organs, horns, and
voices, the riot and roar of the multitude, and the frequent and desperate quarrels of the
different sections, who challenged each other to fight during this lingering period, were absolutely
distracting. Versailles looked alternately like one vast masquerade, like an encampment of
savages, and like a city taken by storm. Wild work, too, had been done during the day.

"As, wearied to death, I threw myself down to rest on the steps of one of the churches, a procession
of patriots happened to fix its quarters on the spot. Its leader, an old grotesque-looking
fellow, dressed in a priest's vestments--doubtless a part of the plunder of the night--and
seated on a barrel on wheels, like a Silenus, from which, at their several halts, he harangued
his followers, and drank to the 'downfal of the Bourbons,' soon let me into the history of
the last twelve hours. 'Brave Frenchmen,' exclaimed the ruffian, 'the eyes of the world are
fixed upon you; and this night you have done what the world has never rivalled. You have shaken
the throne of the tyrant. What cared you for the satellites of the Bourbon? You scorned their
bayonets; you laughed at their bullets. Nothing can resist the energy of Frenchmen.' This flourish
was, of course, received with a roar. The orator now produced a scarf which he had wrapped
round his waist, and waved it in the light before them. 'Look here, citizen soldiers,' he cried;
'brave Fédérés, see this gore. It is the blood of the monsters who would extinguish the liberty
of France. Yesterday I headed a battalion of our heroes in the attack of the palace. One of
the slaves of the tyrant Capet rushed on me sword in hand; I sent a bullet through his heart,
and, as he fell, I tore this scarf from his body. See the marks of his blood.' It may be conceived
with what feelings I heard this narrative.--The palace had been sacked, the queen insulted,
my friends and comrades murdered. I gave an involuntary groan; his fierce eye fell upon me
as I endeavoured to make my escape from this horrible neighbourhood, and he ordered me to approach
him. The fifty pikes which were brandished at his word made obedience necessary. He whispered,
'I know you well; you are at my mercy; I have often played the barrel organ outside the walls
of your corps-de-garde; you are acquainted with the secret ways of the palace, and you must
lead us in, or die upon the spot.' He probably took my astonishment and silence for acquiescence;
for he put a musket into my hand. 'This night,' said he, aloud, 'will settle every thing. The
whole race of the Bourbons are doomed. The fry may have escaped, but we have netted all the
best fish. We have friends, too, in high quarters;' and he shook a purse of louis-d'ors at
my ear. 'We are to storm the palace an hour before daybreak; the troops must either join us
or be put to death; the king and his tribe will be sent to a dungeon, and France, before to-morrow
night, will have at her head, if not the greatest man, the richest fool, in Europe.' He burst
out into an irrestrainable laugh, in which the whole party joined; but the sound of cannon
broke off his speech; all shouldered pike or musket; I was placed under the especial surveillance
of a pair with drawn sabres, which had probably seem some savage service during the night,
for they were clotted with blood; and with me for their guide, the horde of savages rushed
forward, shouting, to join the grand attack on the defenders of our unfortunate king.

"My situation had grown more trying at every moment, but escape was impossible, and my next
thought was to make the best of my misfortune, enter the palace along with the crowd, and,
when once there, die by the side of my old comrades. I had, however, expected a sanguinary
struggle. What was my astonishment when I saw the massive gates, which might have been so easily
defended, broken open at once--a few random shots the only resistance, and the staircases and
ante-rooms in possession of the multitude within a quarter of an hour. 'Where is La Fayette?'
in wrath and indignation, I cried to one of the wounded garde-du-corps, whom I had rescued
from the knives of my sans-culotte companions. 'He is asleep,' answered the dying man, with
a bitter smile. 'Where are the National Guard whom he brought with him last night from Paris?'
I asked, in astonishment. 'They are asleep, too,' was the contemptuous answer. I rushed on,
and at length reached my friends; tore off my Fédéré uniform, and used, with what strength
was left me, my bayonet, until it was broken.

"I shall say no more of that night of horrors. The palace was completely stormed. The splendid
rooms, now the scene of battle hand to hand; the royal furniture, statues, pictures, tossed
and trampled in heaps; wounded and dead men lying every where; the constant discharge of muskets
and pistols; the breaking open of doors with the blows of hatchets and hammers; the shrieks
of women flying for their lives, or hanging over their wounded sons and husbands; and the huzzas
of the rabble, at every fresh entrance which they forced into the suites of apartments, were
indescribable. I pass over the other transactions of those terrible hours; but some unaccountable
chance saved the royal family--I fear, for deeper sufferings; for the next step was degradation.

"The rabble leaders insisted that the king should go with them to Paris. Monsieur La Fayette
was now awake; and he gave it as his opinion that this was the only mode of pleasing the populace.
When a king submits to popular will, he is disgraced; and a disgraced king is undone. It was
now broad day; the struggle was at an end; the royal carriages were ordered, and the garde-du-corps
were drawn up to follow them. At this moment, the barrel-organ man, my leader of the night,
passed me by with a grimace, and whispered, 'Brother Fédéré, did I not tell you how it would
be? The play is only beginning; all that we have seen is the farce.' He laughed, and disappeared
among the crowd.

"There was one misery to come, and it was the worst; the procession to Paris lasted almost
twelve hours. It was like the march of American savages, with their scalps and prisoners, to
their wigwams. The crowd had been largely increased by the national guards of the neighbouring
villages, and by thousands flocking from Paris on the intelligence of the rabble victory. Our
escort was useless; we ourselves were prisoners. Surrounding the carriage of the king, thousands
of the most profligate refuse of Paris, men and women, railed and revelled, sang and shouted
the most furious insults to their majesties. And in front of this mass were carried on pikes,
as standards, the heads of two of our corps, who had fallen fighting at the door of the queen's
chamber. Loaves, borne on pikes, and dipped in blood, formed others of their standards. Huge
placards, with the words, 'Down with the tyrant! Down with the priests! Down with the nobles!'
waved above the heads of the multitude. 'Make way for the baker, his wife, and the little apprentice,'
was shouted, with every addition of obloquy and insolence; and in this agony we were forced
to drag on our weary steps till midnight. One abomination more was to signalize the inhuman
spirit of the time. Within about a league of Paris, the royal equipages were ordered to halt;
and for what inconceivable purpose? It was, that the bleeding heads of our unfortunate comrades
might be dressed and powdered by the village barber--to render them fit to enter Paris. The
heads were then brought to the carriage windows, for the approval of the royal prisoners; and
the huge procession moved onward with all its old bellowings again.

"We entered the city by torchlight, amid the firing of cannon; the streets were all illuminated,
and the mob and the multitude maddened with brandy. Yet the scene was unlike that of the night
before. There was something in the extravagances of Versailles wholly different from the sullen
and frowning aspect of Paris. The one had the look of a melodrame; the other the look of an
execution. All was funereal. We marched with the king to the Place du Carrousel, and when the
gates of the palace closed on him, I felt as if they were the gates of the tomb. Perhaps it
would be best that they were; that a king of France should never suffer such another day; that
he should never look on the face of man again. He had drained the cup of agony; he had tasted
all the bitterness of death; human nature could not sustain such another day; and, loyal as
I was, I wished that the descendant of so many kings should rather die by the hand of nature
than by the hand of traitors and villains; or should rather mingle his ashes with the last
flame of the Tuileries, than glut the thirst of rebellion with his blood on the scaffold."

The story left us all melancholy for a while; bright eyes again overflowed, as well they might;
and stately bosoms heaved with evident emotion. Yet, after all, the night was wound up with
a capital cotillon, danced with as much grace, and as much gaiety too, as if it had been in
the Salle d'Opera.

       *       *       *       *       *

I rose early next morning, and felt the spirit-stirring power of the sea breeze. In those days,
Brighton covered but the borders of the shore. It was scarcely more than a little line of fishermen's
cottages, fenced against the surge by the remaining timbers of boats which had long seen their
last adventure. Scattered at distances of at least a quarter of a mile from each other, lay
some houses of a better description, a few deeply embosomed in trees, or rather in such thickets
as could grow in the perpetual exposure to the rough winds and saline exhalations of the Channel.
Of those, the one in which I had taken up my present residence was amongst the best; though
its exterior was so unpresuming, that I was inclined to give Mordecai, or rather his gay heiress,
credit for humility, or perhaps for the refinement of striking their visiters with the contrast
between its simplicity of exterior and richness of decoration within.

It was a brisk, bright morning, and the waves were curling before a lively breeze, the sun
was glowing above, and clusters of vessels, floating down the Channel, spread their sails like
masses of summer cloud in the sunshine. It was my first sight of the ocean, and that first
sight is always a new idea. Alexander the Great, standing on the shores of the Persian Gulf,
said, "That he then first felt what the world was." Often as I have seen the ocean since, the
same conception has always forced itself on me.

In what a magnificent world do we live! What power, what depth, what expanse, lay before me!
How singular, too, that while the grandeur of the land arises from bold irregularity and incessant
change of aspect, from the endless variety of forest, vale, and mountain; the same effect should
be produced on the ocean by an absence of all irregularity and all change! A simple, level
horizon, perfectly unbroken, a line of almost complete uniformity, compose a grandeur that
impresses and fills the soul as powerfully as the most cloud-piercing Alp, or the Andes clothed
with thunder.

This was the ocean in calm; but how glorious, too, in tempest! The storm that sweeps the land
is simply a destroyer or a renovator; it smites the surface, and is gone. But the ocean is
the seat of its power, the scene of its majesty, the element in which it sports, lives, and
rules--penetrating to its depths, rolling its surface in thunder on the shore--changing its
whole motion, its aspect, its uses, and, grand as it is in its serenity, giving it another
and a more awful grandeur in its convulsion. Then, how strangely, yet how admirably, does it
fulfil its great human object! Its depth and extent seem to render it the very element of separation;
all the armies of the earth might be swallowed up between the shores of the Channel. Yet it
is this element which actually combines the remotest regions of the earth. Divisions and barriers
are essential to the protection of kingdoms from each other; yet what height of mountain range,
or what depth of precipice could be so secure as the defence so simply and perpetually supplied
by a surrounding sea? While this protecting element at the same time pours the wealth of the
globe into the bosom of a nation.

Even all this is only the ocean as referred to man. How much more magnificent is it in itself!
Thrice the magnitude of the land, the world of waters! its depth unfathomable, its mountains
loftier than the loftiest of the land, its valleys more profound, the pinnacles of its hills
islands! What immense shapes of animal and vegetable life may fill those boundless pastures
and plains on which man shall never look! What herds, by thousands and millions, of those mighty
creatures whose skeletons we discover, from time to time, in the wreck of the antediluvian
globe! What secrets of form and power, of capacity and enjoyment, may exist under the cover
of that mighty expanse of waves which fills the bed of the ocean, and spreads round the globe!

While those and similar ramblings were passing through my mind, as I sat gazing on the bright
and beautiful expanse before me, I was aroused by a step on the shingle. I turned, and saw
the gallant guardsman, who had so much interested our party on the night before. But he received
my salutation with a gravity which instantly put an end to my good-humour; and I waited for
the dénouement, at his pleasure. He produced a small billet from his pocket, which I opened,
and which, on glancing my eye over it, appeared to me a complete rhapsody. I begged of him
to read it, and indulge me with an explanation. He read it, and smiled.

"It is, I own, not perfectly intelligible," said he; "but some allowance must be made for a
man deeply injured, and inflamed by a sense of wrong."

I read the signature--Lafontaine, Capitaine des Chasseurs legers. I had never heard the name
before. I begged to know "the nature of his business with me, as it was altogether beyond my
conjecture."

"It is perfectly probable, sir," was the reply; "for I understand that you had never seen each
other till last night, at the house of your friend. The case is simply this:--Lafontaine, who
is one of the finest fellows breathing, has been for some time deeply smitten by the various
charms of your host's very pretty daughter, and, so far as I comprehend, the lady has acknowledged
his merits. But your arrival here has a good deal deranged the matter. He conceives your attentions
to his fair one to be of so marked a nature, that it is impossible for him to overlook them."

I laughed, and answered,

"Sir, you may make your friend quite at his ease on the subject, for I have not known her existence
till within these twenty-four hours."

"You danced with her half the evening--you sat beside her at supper. She listened to you with
evident attention--of this last I myself was witness; and the report in the neighbourhood is,
that you have come to this place by an express arrangement with her father," gravely retorted
the guardsman.

All this exactness of requisition appeared to me to be going rather too far; and I exhibited
my feeling on the subject, in the tone in which I replied, that I had stated every thing that
was necessary for the satisfaction of a "man of sense, but that I had neither the faculty nor
the inclination to indulge the captiousness of any man."

His colour mounted, and I seemed as if I was likely to have a couple of heroes on my hands.
But he compressed his lip, evidently strangled a chivalric speech, and, after a pause to recover
his calmness, said--

"Sir, I have not come here to decide punctilios on either side. I heartily wish that this affair
had not occurred, or could be reconciled; my countrymen here, I know, stand on a delicate footing,
and I am perfectly aware of the character that will be fastened on them by the occurrence of
such rencontres. Can you suggest any means by which this difference may be settled at once?"

"None in the world, sir," was my answer. "I have told you the fact, that I have no pretension
whatever to the lady--that I am wholly unacquainted even with the person of your friend--that
the idea of intentional injury on my part, therefore, is ridiculous; and let me add, for the
benefit of your friend, that to expect an apology for imaginary injuries, would be the most
ridiculous part of the entire transaction."

"What, then, am I to do?" asked the gallant captain, evidently perplexed. "I really wish that
the affair could be got over without fracas. In fact, though the Jewess is pretty, Lafontaine's
choice does not much gratify any of us."

"What you ought to do, sir, is sufficiently plain," said I. "Go to your friend; if he has brains
enough remaining to comprehend the nature of the case, he will send you back with his apology.
If he has not, I shall remain half an hour on the sands until he has made up his mind."

The captain made me a low bow, and slowly paced back to the lodging of his fiery compatriot.

When I was left alone, I, for the first time, felt the whole ill-luck of my situation. So long
as I was heated by our little dialogue, I thought only of retorting the impertinent interference
of a stranger with my motives or actions. But, now, the whole truth flashed on me with the
force of a new faculty. I saw myself involved in a contest with a fool or a lunatic, in which
either of our lives, or both, might be sacrificed--and for nothing. Hope, fortune, reputation,
perhaps renown, all the prospects of life were opening before me, and I was about to shut the
gate with my own hand. In these thoughts I was still too young for what is called personal
peril to intervene. The graver precaution of more advanced years was entirely out of the question.
I was a soldier, or about to be one; and I would have rejoiced, if the opportunity had been
given to me, in heading a forlorn hope, or doing any other of those showy things which make
a name. The war, too, was beginning--my future regiment was ordered for foreign service--every
heart in England was beating with hope or fear--every eye of Europe was fixed upon England
and Englishmen; and, in the midst of all this high excitement, to fall in a pitiful private
quarrel, struck me with a sudden sense of self-contempt and wilful absurdity, that made me
almost loathe my being. I acknowledge that the higher thoughts, which place those rencontres
in their most criminal point of view, had then but little influence with me. But to think that,
within the next hour, or the next five minutes, I might be but like the sleepers in the rude
resting-place of the fishermen; with my name unknown, and all the associations of life extinguished--

    "This sensible warm motion to become
     A kneaded clod"--

was an absolute pang. I could have died a martyr, and despised the flame, or rather rejoiced
in it, as a security that I should not perish forgotten. But a fancied wrong, an obscure dispute,
the whole future of an existence flung away for the jealous dreams of a mad Frenchman, or the
Sport of a coquette, of whom I knew as little as of her fantastic lover, threw me into a fever
of scorn for the solemn follies of mankind.

The captain returned. I had not stirred from the spot.

"I regret," said he, "that my friend is wholly intractable. He has convinced himself, if he
can convince no one else, that he has wholly lost the good opinion of his fair one, and that
you are the cause. Some communication which he had from London, informed him of your frequent
intercourse with her father. This rendered him suspicious, and the peculiar attention with
which you were treated last night, produced a demand for an explanation; which, of course,
heightened the quarrel. The inamorata, probably not displeased to have more suitors than one,
whether in amusement or triumph, appears to have assisted his error, if such it be; and he
returned home, stung to madness by what he terms her infidelity. He now demands your formal
abandonment of the pursuit."

All my former feelings of offence recurred at the words, and I hotly asked--"Well, sir, to
whom must I kneel--to the lady or the gentleman? Take my answer back--that I shall do neither.
Where is your friend to be found?"

He pointed to a clump of frees within a few hundred yards, and I followed him. I there saw
my antagonist; a tall, handsome young man, but with a countenance of such dejection that he
might have sat for the picture of despair. It was clear that his case was one for which there
was no tonic, but what the wits of the day called a course of steel. Beside him stood a greyhaired
old figure, of a remarkably intelligent countenance, though stooped slightly with age. He was
introduced to me as General Deschamps; and in a few well-expressed words, he mentioned that
he attended, from respect to the British, to offer his services to me on an occasion "which
he deeply regretted, but which circumstances unfortunately rendered necessary, and which all
parties were doubtless anxious to conclude before it should produce any irritation in the neighbourhood."

To the offer of choice of weapons, I returned an answer of perfect indifference. It had happened,
that as my father had destined me for diplomacy, and had conceived the science to have but
two essentials, French and fencing, I was tolerably expert in both. Swords were chosen. We
were placed on the ground, and the conflict began. My antagonist was evidently a master of
his art; but there is no weapon whose use depends so much upon the mind of the moment as the
sword. He was evidently resolved to kill or be killed; and the desperation with which he rushed
on me exposed him to my very inferior skill. At the third pass I ran him through the sword
arm. He staggered back with the twinge; but at the instant when he was about to bound on me,
and perhaps take his revenge, a scream stopped us all; a female, wrapped in cloak and veil,
rushed forward, and threw herself into Lafontaine's arms in a passion of sobs. An attendant,
who soon came up, explained the circumstance; and it finally turned out, that the fair Mariamne,
whatever her coquetry might have intended at night, repented at morn; recollected some of the
ominous expressions of her lover; and on hearing that he had been seen with a group entering
the grove, and that I, too, was absent, had conjectured the truth at once, and flown, with
her femme de chambre, to the rendezvous. She had come just in time.

The reconciliation was complete. I was now not only forgiven by the lover, but was the "very
best friend he had in the world;--a man of honour, a paragon, a chevalier sans peur et sans
reproche." The wound of the gallant chasseur was bound up, like an ancient knight's, with his
mistress's scarf. She upbraided me, with her glistening eyes, for having had the audacity to
quarrel with her hero; and then, with the same eyes, thanked me for the opportunity of proving
her faith to cher et malheureux Charles. Her little heart poured out its full abundance in
her voluble tongue; and for a quarter of an hour, and it is a long life for happiness, we were
the happiest half dozen in Christendom.

How Mordecai would admire all this, was yet to be told; but my casual mention of his name broke
up the rapture at once. Mariamne suddenly became sensible of the irregularity of alternately
fainting and smiling in the arms of a handsome young soldier; and in the presence, too, of
so many spectators, all admirers of her black eyes and blooming sensibilities. She certainly
looked to me much prettier than in her full-dress charms of the evening before, and I almost
began to think that the prize was worth contending for; but the guardsman and the old general
had felt the effects of the morning air, and were unsentimentally hungry. Mariamne and her
attendant were escorted to the edge of the plantation by her restored knight; and I accepted
the general's invitation to breakfast, instead of drowning myself in the next pond.

The general was lodged in the first floor of a fisherman's dwelling, which, in more polished
parts of the land, would have been pronounced a hovel; but in Brighton, as it then was, bore
the name of a house. We entered it through an apartment filled with matters of the fisherman's
trade,--nets, barrels, and grapnels; and in a corner a musket or two, which had evidently seen
service, though probably not in his Majesty's pay. The walls were covered with engravings of
British sea-fights and favourite admirals, from the days of Elizabeth; patriotic in the highest
degree, and most intolerable specimens of the arts; the floor, too, had its covering, but it
was of nearly a dozen children of all sizes, from the bluff companion of his father down to
the crier in the cradle; yet all fine bold specimens of the brood of sea and fresh air, British
bull-dogs, that were yet to pin down the game all round the world; or rather cubs of the British
lion, whose roar was to be the future terror of the foreigner.

The general welcomed us to his little domicile with as much grace as if he had been ushering
us into the throne-room of the Tuileries. I afterwards understood that he had been governor
of the "Invalides;" and the change from the stately halls of that military palace must have
severely taxed the philosophy of any man; yet it had no appearance of having even ruffled the
temperament of the gallant veteran. He smiled, talked, and did the honours of his apartment
with as much urbanity as if he had been surrounded by all the glittering furniture, and all
the liveried attendance, of his governorship. I have always delighted in an old Frenchman,
especially if he has served. Experience has made me a cosmopolite, and yet to this hour a young
Frenchman is my instinctive aversion. He is born in coxcombry, cradled in coxcombry, and educated
in coxcombry. It is only after his coxcombry is rubbed off by the changes and chances of the
world, that the really valuable material of the national character is to be seen. He always
reminds me of the mother-of-pearl shell, rude and unpromising on the outside, but by friction
exhibiting a fine interior. However it may be thought a paradox to pronounce the Frenchman
unpolished, I hold to my assertion. If the whole of "jeune France" sprang on their feet and
clapped their hands to the hilts of their swords, or more probably to their daggers, to avenge
the desecration of the only shrine at which nine-tenths of them worship, I should still pronounce
the Frenchman the most unpolished of Europeans. What is his look of conscious superiority to
all that exist besides in this round world? The toss of his nostril, the glare of his eye,
the contempt of his gathered lip? Give me the homeliest manners of the homeliest corner of
Europe--nay, give me the honest rudeness of the American savage, in preference to this arrogant
assumption of an empty superiority. Why, the very tone in which every Frenchman, from fifteen
to five-and-forty, utters the words "la France," is enough to raise the laugh, or make the
blood boil, of all mankind.

Nearly twenty years after this, I happened to be sitting one day with Gentz, the most memorable
practical philosopher of his age and country. Germany was then in the most deplorable depression,
overrun with French armies; and with Napoleon at Erfurth, in the pride of that "bad eminence"
on which he stood in such Titanic grandeur, and from which he was so soon to be flung with
such Titanic ruin. Our conversation naturally turned on the melancholy state of things.

"I think," said the great politician, "that this supremacy must fall. I might not think so
if any other nation were the masters of Europe; but France, though often a conqueror, has never
been a possessor. The insolence of the individual Frenchman has been the grand obstacle to
the solidity of her empire."

To my remark, that her central position, her vast population, the undaunted bravery of her
troops, and the military propensities of her people, fitted her to be the disturber of Europe.

"Yes," was the sage's answer; "but to be no more than the disturber. Her power is the whirlwind;
for purposes which man may never be able fully to define, suffered, or sent forth, to sweep
the Continent; perhaps, like the tempest, to punish, nay, perhaps in the end to purify; but
the tempest is scarcely more transitory, or more different from the dew that invisibly descends
and silently refreshes the land."

"But Napoleon," said I, "with an army of a million recruited from thirty millions, opposed
to the worn-down force and exhausted treasures of the Continent! What an iron wedge driven
in among their dilapidated combinations! What a mountain of granite, with the cloud and the
thunder for its crown, domineering over the plain!"

"True--perfectly true," he replied, throwing back the long locks from a broad forehead which
reminded me of a bust of Plato. "True. Man may be as little able to decide on the means by
which the power of France will fall, as on the purposes for which that tremendous fabric of
splendid iniquity first rose. But, look into that street."

It happened that a French regiment of cuirassiers, with the fine clangour of its drums and
trumpets, was passing under the window at the moment.

"You see there," said he, "the kind of feeling which that really striking show produces; not
a window is open but our own. The blinds of every window have been let down, not an eye looks
at these troops. Yet the public of Vienna are extravagantly fond of display in all its shapes;
and punchinello, or a dance of dogs, would bring a head to every pane of glass, from the roof
to the ground. The French are individually shrunk from, hated, abhorred.

"Naturally enough, as conquerors," I observed; chiefly from a desire to hear more of the sentiments
of the celebrated German.

"No--no!" said he, almost in a tone of vexation. "The Germans are as much alive to the merits
of their enemies in the field, as any other nation in the world. They acknowledge the soldiership
of the French. I even believe that the talents of their extraordinary emperor are more sincerely
acknowledged in Vienna than in Paris. But it is the intolerable insolence of the national character,
that makes its bravery, its gaiety, and even its genius detested. Trust me; this feeling will
not be unfruitful. Out of the hut of the peasant will come the avengers, whom the cabinet has
never been able to find in the camp. Out of the swamp and the thicket will rise the tree that
will at once overshadow the fallen fortunes of Germany, and bring down the lightning on her
aggressors. In this hope alone I live."

I once more asked him, "From what quarter is the restoration to come?"

"I know not--I care not--I ask not," said he, starting from his chair, and traversing the room
with huge strides. "The topic feels to me as if a sword was now griding its way through my
frame. But France will never keep Austria, nor Prussia, nor the Rhenish Provinces, nor Holland,
nor any spot on earth beyond the land inhabited by Frenchmen. It is true," said he, with a
stern smile, "that she may keep her West India islands, if your ships will let her. The negroes
are her natural subjects. They have backs accustomed to the lash, and black cheeks that will
not redden at her insolence."

"Are the German sovereigns of your opinion?"

"To a man. It is but this morning that I was honoured with a reception by our good emperor.
His conviction was complete. But you will not see Austria stir a single step, until war is
the outcry, not of her court, but of her people. The trumpet that leads the march will be blown
not from the parade of Vienna or Berlin, but from the village, the pasture, the forest, and
the mountain. The army will be the peasant, the weaver, the trader, the student, the whole
of the pacific multitude of life turned into the materials of war; the ten thousand rills that
silently water the plain of society suddenly united into one inundation; the eyes of every
man looking only for the enemy; the feet of every man pursuing him; the hands of every man
slaying him. The insolence of the Frenchman has contrived to convey a sting of the bitterness
of conquest into every heart of our millions, and our millions will return it with resistless
retribution."

"You have cheered and convinced me," said I, as I rose to take my leave. "It certainly is rather
strange, that France, always mad with the love of seizure, has been able to acquire nothing
during the last hundred years."

"You will find my theory true," said Gentz. "The individual insolence of her people has been
the real impediment to the increase of her dominions. She is not the only ambitious power on
the face of the earth. Russia has doubled her empire within those hundred years, yet she has
kept possession of every league. Prussia has doubled her territory within the same time, yet
she has added the new solidly to the old. I am not an advocate for the principle or the means
by which those conquests have been accomplished; but they have been retained. Austria has been
for the same time nearly mistress of Italy, and though the French arms have partially shaken
her authority, it was never shaken by popular revolt. And why is all this contradistinction
to the flighty conquest and ephemeral possession of France? The obvious reason is, that however
the governments might be disliked, neither the Austrian soldier, nor the Prussian, nor even
the Russian, made himself abhorred, employed his study in vexing the feelings of the people,
had a perpetual sneer on his visage, or exhibited in his habits a perpetual affectation of
that coxcomb superiority to all other human beings, that pert supremacy, that grotesque and
yet irritating caricature, which makes the Moi, je suis Français, a demand for universal adoration,
the concentrated essence of absurdity, the poison-drop of scorn.

"When will this great consummation arrive?"

"When the tyranny can be endured no longer; when the people find that they must depend upon
themselves for its redress; when a just Providence finds the vindication of its laws required
by the necessities of man."

"From what quarter will the grand effort first come?"

"From the nation most aggrieved."

"What will be its result?"

To this moment I remember the sudden light which flashed into his cold grey eye, the gasping
lip, and the elevation which even his stooped form assumed; as he answered with a tone and
gesture which might have been imagined for one of the prophets of the Sistine Chapel--

"The result," said he, "will be the fall of the French empire, for it is a house built on the
sand;--the extinction of Napoleon, for it is his creation, and the one cannot survive the other;--the
liberation of Europe, for its united strength can be chained no longer;--perhaps the liberty
of man, for the next step for nations which have crushed foreign dominion is to extinguish
domestic despotism. Europe once free, what is to come? A new era, a new shape of society, a
new discovery of the mighty faculties of nations, of the wonders of mind, of matter, and of
man; a vast shaking of the earth and its institutions; and out of this chaos, a new moral creation,
fiat lux et fugient tenebræ."

The prediction has been partly realized. Much is yet to be fulfilled. But, like Gentz, I live
in hope, and think that I see an approach to the consummation.

But the party to whom I was now introduced were of a different order from the generality of
their country. Originally of the first education and first society of France, the strictness
of the military service had produced on the the most valuable effect of years. The natural
vividness of their temperament was smoothed down, their experience of English kindness had
diminished their prejudices; and adversity--and no men bear the frowns of fortune better than
their nation--gave them almost the manly calmness of the English gentleman. I found the old
general all courtesy, and his friends all good-humour. My conduct in the affair of the morning
was after their own hearts; I had, by common consent, earned their good graces; and they gave
me on the spot half a dozen invitations to the regiments and chateaus of themselves and their
friends, with as much hospitable sincerity as if they had only to recross the Channel to take
possession of them again. Lafontaine was still moody, but he was in love; and, by this fact,
unlike every body else, and unlike himself, from one half hour to another.

The conversation soon turned on a topic, on which the emigrants every where were peculiarly
anxious to be set right with English feeling, namely, their acquittance from the charge of
having fled unnecessarily.

"Men of honour," observed the general, "understand each other in all countries. I therefore
always think it due, to both Englishmen and Frenchmen, to explain, that we are not here in
the light of fugitives; that we have not given up the cause of our country; and that we are
on English ground in express obedience to the commands of our sovereign. I am at this moment,
in this spot, on the king's duty, waiting, like my gallant friends here, merely the order to
join the first expedition which can be formed for the release of our monarch, and the rescue
of France from the horde of villains who have filled it with rebellion." All fully accorded
with the sentiment. "The captivity of the king," said he, "is the result of errors which none
could have anticipated ten days since. The plan decided on by the council of officers, of which
I was one, was the formation of a camp on the frontier, to which his majesty and the princes
should repair, summon the chief authorities of the kingdom, and there provide for the general
safety with a deliberation which was impossible in Paris. I was sent off at midnight to take
the command of the District of the Loire. I found myself there at the head of ten regiments,
in the highest order, and, as I thought, of the highest loyalty. I addressed them and was received
with shouts of Vive le Roi! I gave an addition of pay to the troops, and a banquet to the officers.
A note was handed to me, as I took my seats at the head of the table. It simply contained the
words, 'You are betrayed.' I read it aloud in contempt, and was again answered by shouts of
Vive le Roi! While we were in the midst of our conviviality, a volley was fired in at the windows,
and the streets of Nantz were in uproar--the whole garrison had mutinied. The officers were
still loyal: but what was to be done? We rushed out with drawn swords. On our first appearance
in the porch of the hotel, a platoon posted in front, evidently for our massacre, levelled
by word of command, and fired deliberately into the midst of us. Several were killed on the
spot, and many wounded. Some rushed forward, and some retreated into the house. I was among
those who forced their way through the crowd, and before I had struggled to the end of the
long street, the cry of 'fire' made me look round--the hotel was in a blaze. The rabble had
set it on flame. It was this, probably that saved me, by distracting their attention. I made
my way to the chateau of the Count de Travancour, whose son had been on my staff at the Invalides.
But the family were in Paris, and the only inhabitants were servants. I had received a musket-ball
in my arm, and was faint with loss of blood. Still, I was determined to remain at my post,
and not quit my district as long as any thing could be done. But I had scarcely thrown myself,
in weariness and vexation, on a sofa, when a servant rushed into the room with the intelligence,
that a band of men with torches were approaching the chateau. To defend it with a garrison
of screaming women was hopeless; and while I stood considering what to do next, we heard the
crash of the gates. The whole circle instantly fell on their knees before me, and implored
that I should save their lives and my own, by making my escape. A courageous Breton girl undertook
to be my guide to the stables, and we set out under a shower of prayers for our safety. But,
as we wound our way along the last corridor, I saw the crowd of soldiers and populace rushing
up the staircase at the opposite side of the court, and calling out my name joined to a hundred
atrocious epithets. My situation now obviously became difficult; for our advance would be met
at the next minute by the assassins. The girl's presence of mind saved me; she flew back to
the end of the gallery, threw open a small door which led to the roof; and I was in the open
air, with the stars bright above me, and a prodigious extent of the country, including Nantz,
beneath.

"Yet you may believe that the landscape was not among my principal contemplations at the moment,
though my eyes involuntarily turned on the town; where, from the blazes springing up in various
quarters, I concluded that a general pillage had begun. That pillage was the order of the day
much nearer to me, I could fully conceive, from the opening and shutting of doors, and the
general tumult immediately under the leads where I stood. "Situation, gentlemen," said the
old general, smiling, "is something, but circumstances are necessary to make it valuable. There
never was a finer night for an investigation of the stars, if I had been an astronomer; and
I dare say that the spot which formed my position would have been capital for an observatory;
but the torches which danced up and down through the old and very dingy casements of the mansion,
were a matter of much more curious remark to me than if I had discovered a new constellation.

"At length I was chased even out of this spot--my door had been found out. I have too much
gallantry left to suppose that my Breton had betrayed me; though a dagger at her heart and
a purse in her hand might be powerful arguments against saving the life of an old soldier who
had reached his grand climacteric. At all events, as I saw torch after torch rising along the
roofs, I moved into the darkness.

"I had here a new adventure. I saw a feeble light gleaming through the roof. An incautious
step brought me upon a skylight, and I went through; my fall, however, being deadened by bursting
my way through the canopy of a bed. I had fallen into the hospital of the chateau. A old Beguine
was reading her breviary in an adjoining room. She rushed in with a scream. But those women
are so much accustomed to casualties that I had no sooner acquainted her with the reasons of
my flight, than she offered to assist my escape. She had been for some days in attendance on
a sick servant. She led me down to the entrance of a subterranean communication between the
mansion and the river, one of the old works which had probably been of serious service in the
days when every chateau in the West was a fortress. The boat which had brought her from the
convent was at the mouth of the subterranean; there, the Loire was open. If you ask, why I
did not prefer throwing myself before the pursuers, and dying like a soldier, my reason was,
that I should have been numbered merely among those who had fallen obscurely in the various
skirmishes of the country; and besides, that if I escaped, I should have one chance more of
preserving the province.

"But, at the moment when I thought myself most secure, I was in reality in the greatest peril.
The Loire had long since broken into the work, which had probably never seen a mason since
the wars of the League. I had made no calculation for this, and I had descended but a few steps,
when I found my feet in water. I went on, however, till it reached my sword-belt. I then thought
it time to pause; but just then, I heard a shout at the top of the passage--on the other hand
I felt that the tide was rushing in, and to stay where I was would be impossible. The perplexity
of that quarter of an hour would satisfy me for my whole life. I pretend to no philosophy,
and have never desired to die before my time. But it was absolutely not so much the dread of
finishing my career, as of the manner in which it must be finished there, which made the desperate
anxiety of a struggle which I would not undergo again for the throne of the Mogul. Still, even
with the roar of the water on one side, and of the rabble on the other, I had some presentiment
that I should yet live to hang some of my pursuers. At all events I determined not to give
my body to be torn to pieces by savages, and my name to be branded as a runaway and a poltron."

A strong suffusion overspread the veteran's face as he pronounced the words; he was evidently
overcome by the possibility of the stigma.

"I have never spoken of this night before," said he, "and I allude to it even now, merely to
tell this English gentleman and his friends how groundless would be the conception that the
soldiers and nobles of an unfortunate country made their escape, before they had both suffered
and done a good deal. My condition was probably not more trying than that of thousands less
accustomed to meet difficulties than the officers of France: and I can assure him, that no
country is more capable of a bold endurance of evils, or a chivalric attachment to a cause."

I gave my full belief to a proposition in which I had already full faith, and of which the
brave and intelligent old man before me was so stately an example.

"But I must not detain you," said he, "any longer with an adventure which had not the common
merit of a Boulevard spectacle; for it ended in neither the blowing up of a castle, nor, as
you may perceive, the fall of the principal performer. As the tide rushed up through the works,
I, of course receded, until at length I was caught sight of by the rabble. They poured down,
and were now within a hundred yards of me, while I could not move. At that moment a strong
light flashed along the cavern from the river, and I discovered for the first time that it
too was not above a hundred yards from me. I had been a good swimmer in early life: I plunged
in, soon reached the stream, and found that the light came from one of the boats that fish
the Loire at night, and which had accidentally moored in front of my den. I got on board; the
fisherman carried me to the other side; I made my way across the country, reached one of my
garrisons, found the troops, fortunately, indignant at the treatment which the king's colours
had received; marched at the head of two thousand men by daybreak, and by noon was in the Grande
Place of Nantz; proceeded to try a dozen of the ringleaders of the riot, who had not been merely
rebels, but robbers and murderers; and amid the acclamations of the honest citizens, gave them
over to the fate which villains in every country deserve, and which is the only remedy for
rebellion in any. But my example was not followed; its style did not please the ministers whom
our king had been compelled to choose by the voice of the Palais Royal; and as his majesty
would not consent to bring me to the scaffold for doing my duty, he compromised the matter,
by an order to travel for a year, and a passport for England."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Toutes les belles dames sont, plus ou moins, coquettes," says that gayest of all old gentlemen,
the Prince de Ligne, who loved every body, amused every body, and laughed at every body. It
is not for me to dispute the authority of one who contrived to charm, at once, the imperial
severity of Maria Theresa and the imperial pride of Catharine; to baffle the keen investigation
of the keenest of mankind, the eccentric Kaunitz; and rival the profusion of the most magnifique
and oriental of all prime ministers, Potemkin.

Mariamne was a "belle dame," and a remarkably pretty one. She was therefore intitled to all
the privileges of prettiness; and, it must be acknowledged, that she enjoyed them to a very
animated extent. In the curious memoirs of French private life, from Plessis Les Tours down
to St Evremond and Marmontel--and certainly--more amusing and dexterous dissections of human
nature, at least as it is in France, never existed--our cooler countrymen often wonder at the
strange attachments, subsisting for half a century between the old, who were nothing but simple
fireside friends after all; and even between the old and the young. The story of Ninon and
her Abbé--the unfortunate relationship, and the unfortunate catastrophe excepted--was the story
of hundreds or thousands in every city of France fifty years ago. It arises from the vividness
of the national mind, the quick susceptibility to being pleased, and the natural return which
the heart makes in gratitude. If it sometimes led to error--it was the more to be regretted.
But I do not touch on such views.

As the Jew's daughter had been rendered by her late adventure all but the affianced bride of
Lafontaine, she immediately assumed all the rights of a bride, treated her slave as slaves
are treated every where, received his friends at her villa with animation, and opened her heart
to them all, from the old general downwards, even to me. I never had seen a creature so joyous,
with all her soul so speaking on her lips, and all her happiness so sparkling in her eyes.
She was the most restless, too, of human beings; but it was the restlessness of a glow of enjoyment,
of a bird in the first sunshine, of a butterfly in the first glitter of its wings. She was
now continually forming some party, some ingenious surprise of pleasure, some little sportive
excursion, some half theatric scene, to keep all our hearts and eyes as much alive as her own.
Lafontaine obviously did not like all this; and some keen encounters of their wits took place,
on the pleasure which, as he averred, "she took in all society but his own."

"If the charge be true," said she one day, "why am I in fault? It is so natural to try to be
happy."

"But, to be happy without me, Mariamne."

"Ah, what an impossibility!" laughed the little foreigner.

"But, to receive the attentions even of the general, old enough to have married your grandmother."

"Well, does it not show his taste, even in your own opinion, to follow your example, and admire
what you tell me you worship?"

"You are changed; you are a girouette, Mariamne."

"Well, nothing in the world is so melancholy as one who lets all the world pass by it, without
a thought, a feeling, or a wish. One might as well be one of the pictures in the Louvre, pretty
and charming, and gazed at by all the passers-by, without a glance for any of them, in return.
I have no kind of envy for being a mummy, covered with cloth of gold, and standing in a niche
of cedar, yet with all its sensations vanished some thousand years ago."

"Was this the language you held to me when first we met, Mariamne?"

"Was this the language you held to me, when first we met, Charles? But I shall lose my spirits
if I talk to you. What a sweet evening! What a delicious breeze! Bon soir!" And forth she went,
tripping it among the beds of flowers like a sylph, followed by Lafontaine, moody and miserable,
yet unable to resist the spell. Of those scenes I saw a hundred, regularly ending in the same
conclusion; the lady always, as ladies ought, gaining the day, and the gentleman vexed, yet
vanquished. But evil days were at hand; many a trial more severe than the pretty arguments
of lovers awaited them; and Lafontaine was to prove himself a hero in more senses than one,
before they met again.

It happened, that I was somewhat a favourite with Mariamne. Yet I was the only one of whom
Lafontaine never exhibited a suspicion. His nature was chivalrous, the rencounter between us
he regarded as in the strongest degree a pledge of brotherhood; and he allowed me to bask in
the full sunshine of his fair one's smiles, without a thought of my intercepting one of their
beams. In fact, he almost formally gave his wild bird into my charge. Accordingly, whenever
he was called to London, which was not unfrequently the case, as the business of the emigrants
with Government grew more serious, I was her chosen companion; and as she delighted in galloping
over the hills and vales of Sussex, I was honoured by being her chief equerry; she repaying
the service by acting as my cicerone.

"Come," said she one day, at the end of an excursion, or rather a race of some miles along
the shore, which put our blood-horses in a foam, "have you ever seen Les Interieurs?"

"No."

"I saw you," she remarked, "admiring the Duchesse de Saint Alainville at our little ball the
other night."

"It was impossible to refuse admiration. She is the noblest looking woman I ever saw."

"One of the noblest, sir, if you please. But, as I disdain the superb in every thing"----She
fixed her bright eyes on me.

"The fascinating is certainly much superior." A slight blush touched her cheek, she bowed,
and all was good-humour again.

"Well, then," said she, "since you have shown yourself rational at last, I shall present you
to this superb beauty in her own palace. You shall see your idol in her morning costume, her
French reality."

She touched the pane of a window with her whip, and a bowing domestic appeared. "Is her Grace
at home?" was the question. "Her Grace receives to-day," was the answer. My companion looked
surprised, but there was no retreating. We alighted from our horses to attend the "reception."

The cottage was simply a cottage, roofed with thatch; and furnished in the homeliest style
of the peasants to whom it had belonged. We went up stairs. A few objects of higher taste were
to be seen in the apartment to which we were now ushered--a pendule, a piano, and one or two
portraits superbly framed, and with ducal coronets above them. But, to my great embarrassment,
the room was full, and full of the first names of France. Yet the whole assemblage were female,
and the glance which the Duchess cast from her fauteuil, as I followed my rather startled guide
into the room, showed me that I had committed some terrible solecism, in intruding on the party.
On what mysteries had I ventured, and what was to be the punishment of my temerity in the very
shrine of the Bona Dea? My pretty guide, on finding herself with all those dark eyes fixed
on her, and all those stately features looking something between sorrow and surprise, faltered,
and grew alternately red and pale. We were both on the point of retiring; when the Duchess,
after a brief consultation with some of the surrounding matronage, made a sign to Mariamne
to approach. Her hospitality to all the emigrant families had undoubtedly given her a claim
on their attentions. The result was a most gracious smile from Madame la Presidente, and I
took my seat in silence and submission.

"Is France a country of female beauty?" is a question which I have often heard, and which I
have always answered by a recollection of this scene. I never saw so many handsome women together,
before or since. All were not Venuses, it is true; but there was an expression, almost a mould
of feature, universal, which struck the eye more than beauty. It was impossible to doubt that
I was among a high caste; there was a general look of nobleness, a lofty yet feminine grace
of countenance, a stately sweetness, which are involuntarily connected with high birth, high
manners, and high history.

There were some whose fine regularity of feature might have served as the model for a Greek
sculptor. Yet those were not the faces on which the eye rested with the long and deep delight
that "drinks in beauty." I saw some worthy or the sublime spell of Vandyke, more with the magnificence
of style which Reynolds loved, and still more with the subdued dignity and touching elegance
of which Lawrence was so charming a master.

On my return to French society in after years, I was absolutely astonished at the change which
seemed to me to have taken place in the beauty of high life. I shall not hazard my reputation
for gallantry, by tracing the contrast more closely. But evil times had singularly acted upon
the physiognomy even of the nobles. The age of the roturier had been the climacteric of France.
Generals from the ranks, countesses from the canaille, legislators from the dregs of the populace,
and proprietors from the mingled stock of the parasite and the plunderer, naturally gave the
countenance, formed by their habits, to the nation formed by their example.

Still there were, and are, examples of this original beauty to be found among the élite of
the noble families; but they are rare, and to be looked on as one looks on a statue of Praxiteles
found in the darkness and wrecks of Herculaneum. In the words of the old song, slightly changed--

    "I roam'd through France's sanguine sand,
      At beauty's altar to adore,
    But there the sword had spoil'd the land,
      And Beauty's daughters were no more."

       *       *       *       *       *

ENGLISH MUSIC AND ENGLISH MUSICIANS.

Musical taste, as we observed in a former article, has undergone fewer mutations in England,
than in most other countries where the art has been cultivated and esteemed. In order, therefore,
to acquire an accurate knowledge of the state of musical taste and science which now prevails
among us, it will be necessary to take a brief retrospect; and as much of the music still popular
was composed during the earliest period of the art in England, we shall rapidly trace its history
from the times of those early masters, whose names are still held in remembrance and repute,
down to the present century.

When England threw off the Papal yoke, music was little known beyond the services of the church.
Though the secular music of this period was barbarous in the extreme, yet masses were universally
sung, and music had long formed a necessary element in the due performance of the services
of the Romish church. During the reign of Henry VIII. few alterations were made in public worship;
and the service continued to be sung and carried on in the Latin language, as before. From
Strype's account of the funeral of this monarch, it appears that all the old ceremonies were
observed, and that the rupture with Rome had caused no alteration in the obsequies performed
on such occasions. In the reign of his successor, the church service was entirely changed,
and the Protestant liturgy was first published for general use. Four years after this event,
on the accession of Mary, the "old worship" was again restored. But when, at length, the reformed
religion was firmly established by Elizabeth, and the ritual permanently changed, the music
of the old masses, suited to the genius and structure of the Romish service, was no longer
available for the simpler forms of worship by which it was replaced. During the holiest and
most solemn portions of the ancient worship, the organ had for centuries been heard in the
cathedrals, while the choruses of praise and adoration resounded through the aisles. Men's
opinions may undergo a change, but the feelings and ideas created by early association, and
fostered by habit, are far more lasting and enduring.

At the period of which we speak, the want of music in the services of the church seems to have
been severely felt, though perhaps the simpler forms of the new ritual were comparatively but
little adapted for musical display. Great exertions were made throughout the kingdom by the
deans and chapters to restore the efficiency of the choirs; and Elizabeth, in the exercise
of what then appeared an undoubted prerogative of the crown, issued her warrant for the impressment
of singing men and boys for the castle of Windsor. The churches and cathedrals still, indeed,
retained their organs; "the choirs and places where they sing" were still in being; all the
matériel was at hand; but, with the exception of the production of John Marbeck, called "The
Book of Common Prayer Noted," which was printed in 1550, there was as yet no music for the
new services in the English language. Two years after the accession of Elizabeth, and one year
after the bill for the uniformity of common prayer had passed the legislature, a choral work,
"very necessarie for the church of Christ to be frequented and used," was published, among
the authors of which the name of Tallis appeared. The musical necessities of the newly established
church appear to have stimulated or developed talents which, under other circumstances, might
perhaps have been less prominently brought forward: at all events, the demand for this music
would seem a principal reason why the early English masters should have devoted themselves
so exclusively to sacred composition. Tallis and his pupil Byrd, both men of original genius,
produced many compositions for the newly introduced ritual, which, by their intrinsic merit
and comparative superiority, aided also by a constant demand for new music of the same character,
gave a permanent direction to the exercise of musical talent; and the services of Tallis and
Byrd became the classic objects of emulation and imitation, and sacred music became, in a peculiar
manner, the national music of England. The compositions of these "fathers of our genuine and
national sacred music," are still preserved, the latter of whom, Byrd, died in 1623, at the
age of probably near eighty years.

The year 1588 forms an epoch in our musical history. An Italian merchant, who, by his mercantile
connection with the Mediterranean, had opportunities of obtaining the newest and best compositions
of his native country, had, for some years, been in the frequent habit of procuring the best
singers of the day, to perform them, privately, at his house in London. This gentleman had
at length the spirit and enterprise to publish a volume of Italian madrigals, entituled, "Musica
Transalpina, Madrigales translated of four, five, and six parts, chosen out of divers excellent
authors; with the first and second parts of La Virginella, made by Maister Byrd, upon two stanzas
of Ariosto, and brought to speak English with the rest." These pieces seem to have given birth
to that passion for madrigals which was afterwards so prevalent, and thus became the models
of contemporary musicians. The next composer of any note was Orlando Gibbons. He died at an
early age, soon after the accession of Charles I., to whom he had been appointed organist.
This master composed several madrigals, but, like his predecessors, he devoted himself principally
to sacred composition. The secular productions of Tallis, Byrd, and Gibbons, together with
those of contemporary composers of inferior note, are, for the most part, now forgotten; but
the sacred music of these three masters still forms a part of every collection of church music.
Canons and fugues were the favourite modes of that early period; vain substitutes for melody,
rhythm, and correct accentuation, in which particulars music was then greatly deficient. The
merits of the compositions of the Elizabethan age, vaunted by the lovers of antiquity as the
golden age of English music, are thus summed up by Dr Burney: "It is, therefore, upon the church
music, madrigals, and songs in parts, of our countrymen during the reign of Elizabeth, that
we must rest their reputation; and these, in point of harmony and contrivance, the chief excellencies
of such compositions, appear in nothing inferior to those of the best contemporary compositions
of the Continent. Taste, rhythm, accent, and grace, must not be sought for in this kind of
music; indeed, we might as well censure the ancient Greeks for not writing in English, as the
composers of the sixteenth century for their deficiency in these particulars, which having
then no existence, even in idea, could not be wanted or expected; and it is necessarily the
business of artists to cultivate or refine what is in the greatest esteem among the best judges
of their own nation and times. And these, at this period, unanimously thought every species
of musical composition below criticism except canons and fugues. Indeed, what is generally
understood by taste in music, must ever be an abomination in the church; for, as it consists
of new refinements or arrangements of notes, it would be construed into innovation, however
meritorious, unless sanctioned by age. Thus the favourite points and passages in the madrigals
of the sixteenth century, were in the seventeenth received as orthodox in the church; and those
of the opera songs and cantatas of the seventeenth century, are used by the gravest and most
pious ecclesiastical composers of the eighteenth." Of the skill of the performers, for whom
this music, still listened to and admired, was written, he also observes, "that the art of
singing, further than was necessary to keep a performer in tune, and time, must have been unknown;"
and that "if £500 had been offered to any individual to perform a solo, fewer candidates would
have entered the lists than if the like premium had been offered for flying from Salisbury
steeple over Old Sarum without a balloon." For ourselves, we do not hesitate to acknowledge
that, in our opinion, the services of these patriarchs of the English school surpass the great
majority of similar productions by our later masters. They may, indeed, suffer when compared
with the masses of the great continental masters; but they nevertheless possess a certain degree
of simple majesty, well suited to the primitive character of the ritual of that church which
disdains the use of ornament, and on principle declines to avail herself of any appeal to the
senses as an auxiliary to devotion. We have been the more particular in our notice of these
early masters, because, long without any rivals, their church music even now stamps the public
taste, and is still held in the highest esteem by many among whom their names alone suffice
to hold the judgment captive.

It is needless to advert to Humphrey and other composers, some of whose productions are still
in vogue; enough has been said to show with what reason the absolute correctness of English
taste in sacred music, in which we suppose ourselves so peculiarly to excel, may be called
in question.

We proceed to sketch the history of the other branches of the art in England, and commence
at once with Henry Purcell, the greatest of our native masters, previously to whom music is
said to have been manifestly on the decline during the seventeenth century. It has been often
remarked of Purcell, that he had "devancé son siêcle." Many of his faults, defects, or crudities,
may undoubtedly be attributed to the age which he adorned. The tide of public approbation has
of late set strongly in his favour; and could the fulsome panegyrics, of which he has been
the object, be implicitly received, Purcell would be considered as nothing less than a prodigy
of genius. Several attempts at dramatic music had been made before Purcell's time. Matthew
Lock had already set the songs of Macbeth and the Tempest, and had also given to the world
"The English Opera, or the vocal music in Psyche," in close imitation of Lulli, the long famed
composer of Louis XIV. Purcell followed in the new track, taking for his models the productions
of the first Italian composers. The fact, that Purcell was under obligations to the Italians,
may startle many of his modern admirers; but with a candour worthy of himself, in the dedication
of his Dioclesian to Charles Duke of Somerset, he says, that "music is yet but in its nonage,
a forward child. 'Tis now learning Italian, which is its best master." And in the preface to
his Sonatas, he tells us that he "faithfully endeavoured at a just imitation of the most famed
Italian masters." An able critic has also remarked, that he thinks he can perceive the obligations
which Purcell had to Carissimi in his recitative, and to Lulli both in recitative and melody;
and also that it appears that he was fond of Stradella's manner, though he seems never to have
pillaged his passages. Many of our readers are doubtless aware, that Purcell's opera of King
Arthur has been lately revived at Drury-Lane, where it has had a considerable run. The public
prints have been loud in its praise; and this work has been styled "the perfect model of the
lyric drama of England." The intervention of spoken dialogue, by many in their innocence hitherto
supposed to be a defect in the construction of a musical drama, is strangely metamorphosed
into a beauty in King Arthur. In short, from some of these critiques, King Arthur would appear
to be the only perfect drama or opera which the world has ever seen. To show the real value
of these criticisms, we may mention the fact, that in an elaborate article of a journal now
before us, in which many of the pieces of this opera are enumerated and highly commended, the
writer has curiously enough passed by in silence two airs, of which Dr Burney observes that
they contain not a single passage which the best composers of his time, if it presented itself
to their imagination, would reject; and on one of which he also remarks, that it is "one of
the few airs that time has not the power to injure; it is of all ages and all countries." There
is doubtless much in Purcell, which, though quaint and antiquated, the musician may nevertheless
admire; but excellence of this kind is necessarily lost upon a general audience. Melody in
his day was rude and unpolished; for there were no singers to execute, even if the composer
had the ability to conceive. Thus Percell's melody, though often original and expressive, is
nevertheless more often rude and ungraceful. In the words of a recent writer on this subject,
"We are often surprised to find elegance and coarseness, symmetry and clumsiness, mixed in
a way that would be unaccountable, did we not consider that, in all the arts, the taste is
a faculty which is slowly formed, even in the most highly gifted minds." We suspect that the
pageant saved King Arthur; the scenic illusions by which contending armies were brought upon
an extended plain, together with the numerous transformations, continually commanded that applause
which the music alone failed to elicit. With many, however, the mere spectacle was not all-sufficient;
but Opinion was written down, and independently of the prestige attached to the name of Purcell,
the press would have effectually put down all exhibition of disapprobation. The theatre might
be seen to become gradually deserted, and party after party, stunned by the noise and blinded
by the glare, might be observed to glide noiselessly away as the performance proceeded, while
an air of fatigued endurance, and disappointment, was plainly visible on the countenances of
those that remained behind. This opera has been frequently revived; how much of the success
which it has met with may be attributed to what Rousseau, when speaking of the operas of that
period, terms "a false air of magnificence, fairyism, and enchantment, which, like flowers
in a field before the harvest, betokens an apparent richness," may be matter of speculation;
but it is recorded that even on its first introduction on the stage, it caused a heavy loss
to the patentees, in consequence of which their affairs were thrown into Chancery, where they
remained some twenty years. Even Purcell's fame is confined to our own shores, and we are not
aware that his music was ever known upon the Continent.

Arne, who established his reputation as a lyric composer by the music of Comus in 1738, is
the next composer whom we think it necessary to mention. To this master belongs the singular
glory of having composed an English opera--a term by which, as will be seen hereafter, we mean
a musical drama in which the whole of the plot is carried on without the intervention of spoken
dialogue. Artaxerxes, the only work of the kind which we possess, was first produced in the
year 1762. Though the music is of a form now obsolete, this opera has seldom been long a stranger
to our stage, having been from time to time revived for the debut of new and ambitious singers.
One of these revivals has recently taken place; the piece, however, was performed for a few
nights only, and perhaps popularity may be, at length, deserting Artaxerxes. This "standard
work of the English school" appears to be of more than doubtful parentage. Arne is stated to
have crowded the airs, those of Mandane in particular, with all the Italian divisions and difficulties
of the day, and to have incorporated with his own property all the best passages of the Italian
and English composers of his time. With the exception of Comus and Artaxerxes, none of his
pieces or operas met with great success; and he seems to be principally remembered by those
compositions which were the least original. "Rule Britannia," by the combined effect of the
sentiment of the words and the spirit and vivacity of the music, now become a national song,
does not possess the merit of originality. Long before it was nationalized--if one may use
such a word--by Englishmen, it was observed that in an Italian song, which may be seen at page
25 of Walsh's collection, the idea--nay, almost all the passages--of this melody might be found.
In the well-known song, "Where the bee sucks, there lurk I," passages occur taken almost note
for note from a cantabile by Lampugnani. According to Dr Burney, Arne may also claim the glory
of having, by his compositions and instructions, formed an era in the musical history of his
country. The former relates that music, which had previously stood still for near half a century,
was greatly improved by Arne in his endeavours "to refine our melody and singing from the Italian;"
and that English "taste and judgment, both in composition and performance, even at the playhouses,
differed as much from those of twenty or thirty years ago, as the manners of a civilized people
from those of savages." Dr Busby, on the other hand, remarks, that "it is a curious fact that
the very father of a style, more natural and unaffected, more truly English, than that of any
other master, should have been the first to deviate into foreign finery and finesse, and desert
the native simplicity of his country." But it is by the compositions in which this degeneracy
may be most particularly remarked, that Arne's name as a musician has been preserved. This
fact has undoubtedly a double aspect. We may therefore, indeed, be permitted to ask,

     "Who shall decide when doctors disagree?"

Either the public taste has erred, or the bastard Italian was superior to the genuine English.
Either way there is something wrong, and it matters little whether we elevate the composer
at the expense of the public, or whether we commend the national taste while we depreciate
and decry the excellence of the music or the merit of the musician.

To Arne succeed several masters, many of whose compositions are still popular. Arnold, Boyce,
Battishall, Shield, Horsley, Webbe, and Calcott, are the leading names of a numerous class
who are chiefly remembered for their anthems and glees, amongst which may be found the chefs-d'oeuvres
of a school of which we shall more particularly speak hereafter. The dramatic compositions
of these masters are, for the most part, consigned to oblivion; nor has any permanent impression
been made upon the public, by a native opera, for many years. While our national school has
been thus barren, the Italian opera has been long cultivated and esteemed. The first opera,
performed wholly in Italian, was given at the Haymarket theatre in 1710. Handel began to write
for this theatre in 1712, and continued to produce operas for many years. The Italian opera
appears to have been in the most flourishing state about the years 1735 and 1736. London then
possessed two lyric theatres, each managed by foreign composers, carrying on a bitter rivalry,
and each backed by all the vocal and instrumental talent that could be found in Europe. Porpora,
by Rousseau styled the immortal, at the Haymarket, and Handel at Covent-Garden--the former
boasting the celebrated Farinelli and Cuzzoni among his performers, the latter supported by
Caustini and Gizziello. The public, however, appears to have been surfeited by such prodigality;
for Dr Burney observes, "at this time"--about 1737--"the rage for operas seems to have been
very much diminished in our country; the fact was, that public curiosity being satisfied as
to new compositions and singers, the English returned to their homely food, the Begger's Opera
and ballad farces on the same plan, with eagerness and comfort." In 1741, Handel, after producing
thirty-nine Italian lyric dramas, and after struggling against adversity, with a reduced establishment
in a smaller theatre, was compelled by ruin to retire for ever from the direction of the Italian
stage. The opera then passed into other hands, and was continued, with various success and
few intermissions, down to the present time. It has been the means of introducing to our countrymen
the works of an almost innumerable host of foreign composers. Bach, the first composer who
observed the laws of contrast as a principle, Pergolisi, Gluck, Piccini, Paesiello, Cimarosa,
Mozart, Rossini, and Bellini, are the principal names, among a long list of masters, of whom
we might otherwise have remained in utter ignorance. Performers of every kind, singers of the
highest excellence, have come among us; the powers and performances of Farinelli, Caffarelli,
Pachierotti, Gabrielli, Mara, and others, are handed down by tradition, while all remember
the great artists of still later times. These have been our preceptors in the art of song,
and to them, and them alone, are we indebted for our knowledge of the singer's, powers; and
but for their guidance and instruction, our native home-taught professors would have been centuries
instead of years behind. It may, however, be some consolation to reflect, that we have not
been alone in our pupilage; for Italy, herself the pupil of ancient Greece, has in her turn
become the preceptress of the modern world in music, as well as the other branches of the fine
arts, in all of which her supremacy has been universally acknowledged. Besides the native musicians
whose names we have enumerated, many ephemeræ of the genus have fluttered their short hour,
and been forgotten. On turning over the popular music of the early years of the present century,
or the music which may, perhaps, have formed the delight and amusement of the last generation,
the musician will marvel that such productions should have been ever tolerated. Native skill
has undoubtedly advanced since this period; and however worthless much of our present music
may be considered, it is nevertheless superior to most of the like productions of our immediate
predecessors. We have some living composers whose works are not without some merit; but they
can scarcely be placed even in the second class. Their compositions, when compared with the
works of the great continental masters, are tame, spiritless, and insipid; we find in them
no flashes of real genius, no harmonies that thrill the nerves, no melodies that ravish the
sense, as they steal upon the ear. Effort is discernible throughout this music, the best of
which is formed confessedly upon Italian models; and nowhere is the universal law, of the inferiority
of all imitation, more apparent.

These observations apply with especial force to the dramatic music, or compositions of the
English school. The term opera, is incorrectly used in England. The proper meaning of the word
is, a musical drama, consisting of recitative airs and concerted pieces; without the intervention
of spoken dialogue, it should consist of music, and music alone, from the beginning to the
end. With us it has been popularly applied to what has been well characterized as "a jargon
of alternate speech and song," outraging probability in a far higher degree than the opera
properly so called, and singularly destructive of that illusion or deception in which the pleasure
derived from dramatic representations principally consists. Music is in itself no mean vehicle
of expression; but, when connected with speech or language, it gives a vast additional force
and power to the expression of the particular passion or feeling which the words themselves
contain. It appears, as one listens to an opera, as if the music were but a portion, or a necessary
component part of the language of the beings who move before us on the scene. We learn to deem
it part of their very nature and constitution; and it appears, that, through any other than
the combined medium of speech and song, the passions, we see exhibited in such intensity, could
not be adequately expressed. The breaking up of this illusion by the intervention of mere dialogue,
is absolutely painful; there is a sudden sinking from the ideal to the real, which shocks the
sense, and at once destroys the fabric of the imagination. Rousseau says of the lyric drama,
that "the melodies must be separated by speech, but speech must be modified by music; the ideas
should vary, but the language should remain the same. This language once adopted, if changed
in the course of a piece, would be like speaking half in French and half in German. There is
too great a dissimilarity between conversation and music, to pass at once from one to the other;
it shocks both the ear and probability. Two characters in dialogue ought either to speak or
sing; they cannot do alternately one and the other. Now, recitative is the means of union between
melody and speech by whose aid, that which is merely dialogue becomes recital or narrative
in the drama, and may be rendered without disturbing the course of melody." Recitative is peculiarly
adapted to the expression of strong and violent emotion. The language of the passions is short,
vivid, broken, and impetuous; the most abrupt transitions and modulations which are observed
in nature, may be noted down in recitative. Writing recitative is but committing to paper the
accent and intonation, in short, the reading of the language to be delivered by the performer;
and the composer may almost be considered as a master of elocution, writing down that reading
of a passage which he thinks may best express the passion or the sentiment of the words. The
effect of this reading or intonation is often aided and increased by the sound of instruments,
sometimes, expressing the harmonies of the passages or transitions noted for the voice, at
other times, perhaps, performing a graceful independent melody or harmony, in which case it
is said to be "accompanied:" It may be easily conceived, how powerful an instrument of dramatic
effect, this species of composition may become in the hands of a skillful composer. We have
already given two examples of its power, one, of recitative in its simplest form, the other,
of accompanied recitative.[1] It would seem scarcely credible that so powerful an agent of
the lyric drama should be utterly neglected, among a people who undoubtedly claim to be considered
a musical nation, and whose composers certainly esteem themselves among those to whom musical
fame might be justly awarded. But such is nevertheless the fact, and we are not aware of any
modern composer of the English school who has fully availed himself of its powers and capabilities.
It has been said of Artaxerxes, that the attempt then made to apply recitative to the English
language is unsuccessful; but it may be asked, whether the long continued popularity of this
work may not, in some degree at least, be owing to the absence of the incongruous mixture of
speech and song. However this may be, it is at least a singular coincidence, that the single
opera of our language, in which dialogue does not break and interrupt the unity and consistent
action of the drama, should be the only musical work which has been distinguished by such constant
and enduring marks of popular favour and approbation. Another species of dramatic music, the
cantabile of the Italians, is equally neglected among us. The cantabile includes much of the
most exquisite music of the Italian masters, and we know of nothing more touchingly beautiful,
throughout the whole range of musical composition, than many of the andante cantabili of this
school. This, also, has been rarely attempted by the English masters, and their puny efforts
will bear no comparison with the rich, graceful, flowing measure of the true Italian.

[Footnote 1: No. cccxxvii, p. 137.]

All music is, in a greater or less degree, essentially dramatic. Its beauty often depends,
entirely, upon the fidelity and truth with which nature is followed. Even instrumental music
aims at dramatic effect, and fanciful incidents, and catastrophes are often suggested by the
melodies and harmonies of a symphony, or concerto. These creations of the imagination are in
themselves a source of interest and delight, wholly different, in their nature, from the pleasure
conferred by mere sounds. How beautiful are the scenes, about to follow, depicted in the overtures
to Der Freyschutz and Oberon; what wild diableries are not suggested by those wonderful compositions!
There are sounds of awful mystery, proceeding, as it were, now, from the dread rites of dark
malignant beings of another world, now, from the mad frolics of mischievous and reckless imps;
in the midst of which a stream of beauteous, gentle melody--like a minister of grace--breaks
forth; now, gliding smoothly along, now, rushing on impetuously, or, broken and interrupted
in its course, as though the powers of good and evil were striving for the mastery; and at
length, as if the former were victorious in the strife, that melody again bursts forth, loud
and expanded in the bold exulting tones of triumph, with which the imaginary scene is closed.

Similar observations might be made of many other pieces of instrumental music; but these effects
depend upon the imagination of the hearer, there being no words to convey definite ideas to
the mind. In vocal music, where the words express no passion or emotion, the voice becomes
little more than a mere instrument of the composer or the performer. Now, the national music
of our country is for the most part adapted to words of this description, and the anthem, the
madrigal, and glee, are thus necessarily deficient in dramatic power and expression. The glee
has been described as "quelque chose bien triste," and few but the fanatics of the school who
have listened to a succession of glees, will, we think, deny the accuracy of the description.
The oratorio is often highly dramatic; but we have few, if any, oratorios of merit, of native
production. Our operas we have already designated as plays, with songs scattered about at random.
Thus, music of the highest class is rarely attempted in this country; and the neglect of the
one great requisite of musical excellence, may have prevented our composers from assuming that
rank, to which they might otherwise have shown themselves entitled.

There is, however, another class of composers whom we must not omit to notice: we mean the
song-writers of the day, the authors of those ballads and vocal compositions, with knights
and ladies fair, houris, sentimental peasants, or highborn beauties, as the case may be, lithographed
upon the title-page. This class is entitled to notice, not because of the merit or ability
they possess, but because these masters (!) really produce the popular music of the day, and
because at present we literally possess no other new music. The first object of the publisher
of a song is, or used to be, to have it sung in public by some popular performer. This is not
done without fee and reward; but the value of the subject of the publisher's speculation, is
greatly increased by the publicity gained by the introduction of the song at the theatre or
the concert-room. When this event takes place, claqeurs are active, the friends of the singer
support them, the playbills announce "a hit," and a sly newspaper puff aids the delusion; copies
of the ornamented title-page are distributed among the various music-sellers, to be exhibited
in their windows, and the song is popular, and "sells." Modest merit is unknown among us now.
Thus songs and ballads without number, which would otherwise remain in well-merited obscurity
on the shelves of the publisher, are forced into notice and repute. The trade, no doubt, benefits
by this system, the commercial end of these speculations may indeed be answered, but the public
taste is lowered by each and every of these transactions.

We may here notice the extravagant price of music of every description in England. For a piece
of four or five pages, the sum of 2s. is commonly demanded. Even where there has been an outlay
in the purchase of the copyright, this sum can scarcely be considered reasonable; but when
the same price is asked for music which has become common property, it is out of all reason.
The expense of engraving four or five pages of music, the cost of the plates, together with
the expense of paper and printing a hundred copies of a song of this description, does not
amount to £5; therefore the sale of fifty copies will reimburse the publisher; while, if the
whole hundred are disposed of, he is an actual gainer of cent per cent upon his original outlay,
while the profit upon every copy subsequently struck off is necessarily enormous. On the Continent,
music may be purchased for about one-third the sum which it would cost in England. In Paris,
Pacini's "partitions," an excellent edition of the popular Italian operas, are sold for twelve
francs each. The whole set may be purchased at the rate of eleven francs the opera. While in
London, the identical copies purchasable abroad by those not in the trade for about 8s. 6d.
of our money, are sold at two guineas each. The profits of "the trade" on musical instruments,
are also enormous. On the pianofortes of most of the London makers, a profit of at least thirty
or thirty-five per cent is realized by the retailer; and on a grand piano, for which the customer
pays 130 guineas, "the trade" pockets on the very lowest calculation upwards of £40.

English performers next claim our notice and attention. In this new field of observation we
find little to commend; defective training is the great cause of our inferiority in the practical
performance of music, in all its branches. This is especially manifest in the home-taught singers
of the English school. The voice is never perfectly formed nor developed, and brought out in
the correct and scientific manner possessed by the accomplished artists of other countries.
Some of the most popular of our singers sing with the mouth nearly closed, with others the
voice is forced and strained, proceeding not from the chest, but from the throat, the muscles
of which are necessarily contracted in the effort. We have, no doubt, many difficulties to
overcome in the structure of our language, in which the accent is thrown on the consonants
rather than on the vowels. Unlike the Italian, which is thrown out, ore rotundo, directly from
the chest, the English language is spoken from the throat, and, in general, also with the mouth
nearly closed. The Italian singer finds no difficulty in bringing out his voice; but the Englishman
has first to conquer the habit of his life, and to overcome the obstacles his native tongue
opposes to his acquirement of this new but necessary, mode of using the voice. The difficulty,
of laying this only foundation of real sterling excellence in the vocal art, is very great,
and much care and study is indispensable. Those who have occasion to use the voice loudly in
the open air, insensibly acquire the power of thus eliciting the voice. The chest tones in
which many of the "Cries of London" are often heard in the streets of the metropolis, are a
familiar example of nature's teaching; another instance of which may probably still be found
among the "bargees," of Cambridge, whose voices, in our younger days, we well remember to have
often heard and admired, as they guided or urged forward their sluggish horses along the banks
of the still more sluggish Cam, in tones proceeding imo profundo of the chest, and magnificent
enough to have made the fortune of many a singer. These men, indeed, seemed to pride themselves
upon their vocal powers; and many of them could execute a rapid shake, with accuracy and precision.
The voice is nature's instrument, but, like the instruments fashioned by the hand of man, it
will not yield its best tones to the unskilful. There are many instrumental performers whose
chief excellence lies in their tone, and who could call forth tones, from even an ordinary
instrument, far superior to those which an inferior performer would be able to produce from
the best Straduarius or Amati. To the singer, tone is even of greater value than to the instrumental
performers; for the method of instruction which improves the qualities of the vocal organ,
also imparts a power and certainty of expression and execution, which cannot be otherwise acquired.
The finest singers are ever found to be those, who have best studied and developed the powers
of the instrument which nature had bestowed upon them. This is the first grand requisite for
the singer; without it, respectable mediocrity may occasionally be attained, but real excellence
never can be gained. We know of no English-taught singer who possesses it. So little are the
voice and its capabilities understood in this country, that instances might be mentioned where
basses were mistaken for barytones, barytones for tenors, and contraltos for sopranos. However
incredible this may appear, it is, nevertheless, strictly and literally true. The consequence
of such strange blunders is what might be naturally expected; the voice, forced out of its
natural compass, prematurely gives way, and at a period of life when the vocal organ, if properly
trained and developed, should have arrived at maturity and perfection, the singer's powers
are gone, and, in the prime of life, he is compelled to abandon his profession, and subsides
into the mere singing-master, to misinstruct the rising generation, and to mar the prospects
of others who succeed him, as his own hopes were blighted by the errors of his own instructors.
To what other cause can be attributed the constant and mysterious disappearance of new singers?
How many young vocalists appear from time to time; lauded at first to the skies, for a few
seasons listened to and admired, but whose reputation gradually decays, and who at length disappear
from the stage and are forgotten. There are some who endure for years; but they fulfil no promise
of their early youth. Under these circumstances, we could ill afford to lose an artist who
seemed destined to achieve a lasting reputation. Our musical stage has but now sustained a
heavy loss in one of the brightest ornaments it ever possessed; the charms of a happy home
have withdrawn her from public life--but the genius of Miss Adelaide Kemble will not be soon
forgotten. Another bright ornament of our stage, however, still remains. Possessing less physical
energy and tragic power than her contemporary, Mrs Alfred Shaw is, nevertheless, the most pure,
polished, and cultivated English singer we ever heard on the boards of our national theatre.
The finish and refinement of her style, and the clear distinctness of her enunciation, make
her the worthy model for the imitation of all who are desirous to excel. Were our future debutanti
trained on the system which has thus developed the powers and capabilities of these eminent
artists, less frequently would be observed the musical disappearances of which we have been
speaking.

The English tenor is a nondescript animal; singing from some unknown region, his voice possesses
no natural character, but its tones are forced, strained, and artificial. Our tenors and counter-tenors--a
sort of musical hermaphrodite, almost peculiar to this country, and scarcely recognized by
classical composers--delight in what is called the "pure," or, "the good old English" style.
This style, coldly correct, tame, dull, flat, and passionless, requires but little in the singer.
The bass of this school is a saltatory creature; he is, for the most part, either striding
through thirds, or jumping over fifths and octaves, much as he did a hundred years ago. During
this period, the art of singing has made immense advances elsewhere; the execution of Farinelli,
in 1734, thought so wonderful, would not suffice for even a third-rate singer now; and the
powers of B. Ferri, described by Rousseau, are scarcely more than would be expected of every
singer of the Queen's Theatre. Rossini's music, replete with difficulties of execution, has
compelled even the unwieldy bass to overcome his reluctance to rapid motion, and he is now
obliged to condescend to runs, arpeggios, and other similar feats of agility. In an opera buffa
at a Neapolitan theatre, called Il Fondo, we once heard Tamburini execute the well-known song
"Ma non fia sempre odiata" in his falsetto, with a taste and expression scarcely surpassed
by Rubini's performance of the air. On another occasion, at the same theatre, the prima donna
was taken suddenly ill in the midst of a terzetto, in which Tamburini had the bass, and, while
supporting her on the stage, this accomplished musician actually took the soprano in his falsetto,
and performed the part of the indisposed lady in a manner which drew down universal applause.
The English school, "still tardy," and "limping after" the Italian, is yet far behind. It has,
undoubtedly, made some advances, but it is still the child, following indeed, but,

     "Haud passibus æquis."

With us, the pupil commonly begins where he should end; songs are placed before him almost
as soon as he has mastered the elements of music. At a time, when his whole study and endeavour
should be to form and cultivate the voice, and by long, patient, and persevering exercise,
to develop and command its powers, and to acquire flexibility and certainty of execution, his
efforts are expended in learning--as it is called--songs. This process may be carried on ad
infinitum; but none of the objects of the pupil's study can be ever sung, in the real acceptation
of the term, on this method of instruction. The well-known anecdote of the early youth of one
of the greatest singers the world has ever known, who, after the drudgery of a daily practice
of exercises alone for seven years, was bidden by his master to go his way, the first singer
in Europe, is an example of the advantages of the opposite system. The compass of an ordinary
tenor is about two octaves, from C below the line, to C in alt. Within this compass, the tenor
makes use of two voices; the chest or natural voice--which ranges over the whole of the lower
octave and the lower half of the higher octave--and the head-voice or falsetto, which is commonly
used throughout the whole of the remainder of the upper octave, the higher notes of which can
be reached only in the falsetto. In passing from one 'voice' to the other, especially while
descending the scale, a break or crack may be observed in the untutored and uncultivated voice.
When this defect has been overcome, and the student has acquired the power of passing from
one 'voice' to the other without this break, the voice is said to be joined. The soprano also
has to contend with a similar difficulty. It often requires many months of constant and unremitting
practice to overcome this natural defect of the vocal organ, and in some voices it is never
entirely conquered. An acute ear might often detect the faulty joining of the voice, in both
the Grisis, when executing a distant descending interval. This obstacle meets the student at
the very threshold of his career; but we have met with many English taught amateurs, who were
altogether ignorant even of what was meant by joining the voice. In fact, the art of singing,
or of acquiring a mastery and control over the voice, of remedying its defects, and developing
its latent powers, is comparatively unknown in England; our professors are for the most part
entirely ignorant of the capabilities of the human voice, as an instrument, in the hands of
the performer. Many of these observations apply to our instrumental performers. With few exceptions,
defective training has, in this branch of the musical art, long prevented us from producing
performers of equal celebrity with those who have visited us from the Continent. From them
we have become acquainted with effects, which we should have deemed the instruments on which
they played wholly incapable of producing. Our young professors now often follow these men
to their own country, there to learn of them that proficiency which they would seek in vain
to acquire at home.

In the midst of all this ignorance, with our one opera, our anthems, madrigals, glees, and
ballads, we nevertheless esteem ourselves a musical people, and every one is ready to exclaim
with Bottom, "I have a reasonable good ear in musick!" Music certainly is the fashion now,
and no one would dare to avow that he had no music in his soul. It may be thought, that none
but a people passionately devoted to music, could produce a succession of patriots ready to
sacrifice health and wealth, rather than their countrymen should fail to possess an Italian
opera. Some one is ever found equal to the emergency; there is seldom any lack of competitors
for the "forlorn hope" of the management of the Italian opera, and, undismayed by the ruin
of his predecessors, the highest bidder rushes boldly on to the direction of the Queen's theatre.
Forty thousand pounds of debt has been known to have been incurred in a single season; and
it has been calculated that a sum little short of a million sterling, besides the produce of
the subscriptions and admissions, has been sacrificed to the desire of an Italian opera. Every
autumn is rich in musical festivals, as they are called, by which, though the temples of God
are desecrated, and the church, in common with the theatre and the concert-room, becomes the
scene of gaiety, frivolity, and amusement; and though the speculation is a charitable one,
by which it is hoped that the funds of the benevolent institutions of the town or county may
be increased, a considerable loss is nevertheless often incurred, which falls upon the committee,
or upon the borough or county members, according to the equity of the case. These gentlemen
also furnish another proof that there are at least some among us who will incur any risk, and
make any sacrifice, rather than forego the indulgence of their musical tastes and inclinations.
Are there not also choral and madrigal societies, glee-clubs, and concerts innumerable, in
every part of the country? It is surely a mistake to suppose, "Que les Anglois ont peu d'aptitude
pour la musique;" we agree that the remainder of the sentence, "Ceux-ci le savent et ne s'en
soucient guère," is altogether inapplicable now, however true it might have been when the lively
Jean-Jacques framed the sentence. Our ambition has been roused, or our vanity has been piqued,
and we are now pretty much in the same condition with the French, when it was said of them,
that they "would renounce a thousand just rights, and pass condemnation on all other things,
rather than allow that they are not the first musicians of the world." This is one of the signs
of the times, and we hail it as a symptom of better things.

In the metropolis, music has advanced with far greater rapidity than in the provinces. This
appears the natural and inevitable result of causes to which we have already alluded. Ten or
fifteen years ago, the street-music of London consisted of such tunes as Tom and Jerry--an
especial favourite--the Copenhagen Waltz, and other melodies of the same class. Now we have
instruments imitating a full orchestra, which execute elaborate overtures in addition to the
best airs of the first masters of Europe. The better the music the greater the attraction,
even in the streets of London; and the people may be seen daily to crowd around these instruments,
and to listen with attention to Italian and German melodies. We have, of late, repeatedly heard
the juvenile unwashed, whistling airs learned from these instruments, which, however humble,
thus appear to influence the taste of the poorer classes. During several weeks of the present
year, operas in an English dress were simultaneously performed at three of our theatres. The
very gods in the galleries now look benignly down upon the Italian strangers, which--to use
a theatrical phrase--draw better houses than any other performances would command.

In the country, the advancement is less manifest. A provincial musical party is generally a
fearful thing. In the society of the metropolis, none but the really skilful musician is ever
heard; in the country, these are rare beings; or, if the scientific performer is sometimes
found, like the diamond in the mine, he shines in vain, there are none to appreciate his excellence.
It is truly painful to see a number of fair young creatures, one after another, brought up
to the instrument; there to exhibit, not taste or skill, but ignorance and inability. It is
even still more painful to be condemned to listen to the performance of the best specimens,
selected from the stock of school-taught pieces, beyond which many of the fair performers know
little or nothing. We beg pardon of our fair young countrywomen; the fault lies not with them.
The indiscriminate teaching of music cannot make all musicians. Many have no warm taste for
music, and many more, who, under other circumstances, might have pursued the art as an amusement
and recreation, are disgusted from their earliest youth by its being made a task, the difficulty
of which is immeasurably increased by imperfect instruments. The general taste of the provincial
world has advanced but little, for many years. There is a certain class of music, which has
been respectfully listened to for upwards of a century; which, having been admired before,
is therefore proper to be admired again. Few would dare to criticize, or avow a distaste for,
music which has so long been popular. Handel and some others still meet with universal deference,
and their very names alone suffice to silence any one who, more hardy than the rest, should
be disposed to find fault. This music, however, is heard with cold indifference; it calls forth
no feeling, and excites no enthusiasm. It is, indeed, seldom adequately performed. Many of
Handel's songs are truly dramatic; but the purists of "the good old school," sternly adhering
to their--self-styled classic--insipidity, never condescend to a meretricious display of dramatic
power. The Italian and German schools are not understood by the "million." We have on many
occasions observed a large audience, who, after having listened with an air of puzzled stupidity
to the performance of the most beautiful cavatine by the first singers of the day, would the
next moment, one and all, be thrown into apparent ecstasy by a wretched ballad, wound up by
the everlasting ponderous English shake. This mode of conclusion, to which true taste is an
utter stranger, is still considered indispensable; though, in the Italian school, it has been
exploded upwards of a century. Such is the music which calls forth the latent enthusiasm of
an English assembly, and a very respectable degree of excitement is often thus produced. There
are many, who believe this music to be of the highest class of excellence, and who affect to
despise the music of every other school. There are also many, who assert that all other music
is artificial and meretricious--who contend that the Italian and German schools are usurping
an undue ascendency over the genuine, but modest, merit of our native music. That Bishop, Calcott,
Webbe, Arne, and the rest, had reached the perfection of their art, would seem a bold assertion;
and their most enthusiastic admirers would probably hesitate to state it as their conviction,
that the compositions of their favourites contain the elements of universal popularity. Such,
however, is the logical deduction from these premises, and the necessary conclusion from opinions,
which those who hold them will not easily evade. If the music of our country does indeed possess
the excellence, so fondly asserted by its numerous admirers, we might naturally expect, amid
the general demand in Europe for musical entertainments, that its beauties should not be entirely
neglected and unknown. But while the Italian opera has found its way over nearly the whole
of Europe, and is absolutely naturalized in England, France, and Spain, our musical productions
are unknown beyond the limits of their native shores. This, being a negative proposition, is
not capable of direct proof. Michael Kelly gives an amusing account of the performance of the
celebrated hunting song at Vienna, in which the discordant cries of "Tally-ho, Tally-ho," are
said to have driven the Emperor in indignation from the theatre, a great part of the audience
also following the royal example. "The ladies hid their faces with the hands, and mothers were
heard cautioning daughters never to repeat the dreadful expression of Tally-ho." We have, ourselves,
heard a no less air than "Drops of Brandy," performed by a military band, stationed on the
balcony of the palace of the King of Naples, on the evening of the royal birthday. The crowds
enjoying the cool air on the Stª Lucia, exclaimed "Inglese, Inglese!" English, English! as
this odd reminiscence of our countrymen was first heard. We are not aware of any other instances
in which English music has been introduced upon the Continent. More such instances may undoubtedly
exist; but the broad fact, that our music makes no way among other nations, cannot be disputed.
The judgment of the civilized world can scarcely be in error; and it is difficult for the most
ardent admirer of his country's music, to account for the fact on any hypothesis which is not
founded on the real inferiority of the English school.

This inferiority can be no matter of surprise, when we consider the energy with which the tuneful
art is cultivated, and the importance with which it is invested, by the Italians. In the freedom
happily enjoyed by Englishmen, all pursuits are open to individual enterprise and ambition;
and every path to fame or opulence is thronged with busy eager aspirants, all running the race
of eminence and distinction, with that strong purpose of the will which leaves but little opportunity
for the indulgence of tastes, which, though they often exist among the individuals of these
classes, are for this reason seldom cultivated. In Italy, insurmountable barriers are erected
across these paths, which, in England, all are invited to pursue. The jealousy of despotic
governments is ever on the watch to stifle and put down the genius that would busy itself on
the serious affairs of men. Instances might be mentioned in which this monstrous system has
been carried into effect. The smothered energies of these restless spirits must somewhere find
a vent, and Arteaga has eloquently described one of the effects thus produced upon the Italians.
"The love of pleasure," he remarks, "the only recompense for the loss of their ancient liberty
which the Italians possess, and which in every nation decreases in proportion as political
virtue diminishes, has caused an excessive frequency of theatrical pageants and amusements.
In every small town, in every village, a theatre may be found. Subsistence may fail the indigent,
the rivers may want bridges, drainage may be necessary to fertilize the plains, hospitals may
be needful for the sick and infirm, there may even be no provision to meet a public calamity,
but a species of Coliseum is nowhere wanting for the idle and unemployed." Operas are the national
entertainments at these numerous theatres. The impresario, or manager, is generally one of
the most wealthy and considerable personages of the little town which he inhabits. He forms
a company, and he engages a composer to write an opera for the opening of the season, which
generally consists of twenty or thirty nights, during which period seldom more than two operas
are performed. The first night of one of these seasons is most amusingly described by the biographer
of Rossini. "The theatre overflows, the people flock from ten leagues' distance; the curious
form an encampment round the theatre in their calashes; all the inns are filled to excess,
where insolence reigns at its height. All occupations have ceased; at the moment of the performance
the town has the aspect of a desert. All the passions, all the solicitudes, all the life, of
a whole population, is concentrated at the theatre. The overture commences; so intense is the
attention, that the buzzing of a fly could be heard. On its conclusion, the most tremendous
uproar ensues. It is either applauded to the clouds, or hissed, or rather howled at, without
mercy. In an Italian theatre, they shout, they scream, they stamp, they belabour the backs
of their seats with their canes, with all the violence of persons possessed. It is thus that
they force on others the judgment which they have formed, and strive to prove it a sound one;
for, strange to say, there is no intolerance equal to that of the eminently sensitive. At the
close of each air the same terrific uproar ensues; the bellowings of an angry sea could give
but a faint idea of its fury. Such, at the same time, is the taste of an Italian audience,
that they at once distinguish whether the merit of an air belongs to the singer, or composer."

Contrast the scene here described with the appearance presented on similar occasion by the
Queen's Theatre in the Haymarket. There, few are bold enough either to applaud or disapprove.
Many simple, perhaps, but beautiful and refined, characteristics of the composer or performer,
may pass unnoticed; but some common-place embellishment, which is considered safe, will command
the expression of approbation which the trait of real genius had failed to elicit. After a
few representations, the fear of applauding unwisely is diminished, but still, as was once
said of the French under similar circumstances, "they affirm with the lips, but with the eye
they interrogate;" and it is not till a sort of prescription has been established in favour
of certain airs and passages, that the Englishman banishes doubt and distrust, and claps his
hands, and shouts bravo--accenting the word strongly on the first syllable--with an air of
confidence and decision. We would, nevertheless, entertain the hope, that our national reserve,
or the mauvaise honte, which our countrymen contrive to exhibit on every possible occasion,
is one cause of this apparent dulness; at all events, it would seem highly probable that a
people among whom music is a necessity, should, in the unbiassed judgment of contemporary nations,
be our superiors in the art.

In the north of England, musical taste is much more widely diffused than in the south. The
Committee of the Privy Council on Education, report favourably also of the musical attainments
of the people of Norfolk. Mr Hogarth, in his excellent and able work, observes, that "in the
densely peopled manufacturing districts of Yorkshire, Lancashire, and Derbyshire, music is
cultivated among the working classes to an extent unparalleled in any other part of the kingdom.
Every town has its choral society, supported by the amateurs of the place and its neighbourhood,
where the sacred works of Handel and the more modern masters are performed, with precision
and effect, by a vocal and instrumental orchestra, consisting of mechanics and work people;
and every village church has its occasional oratorio, where a well-chosen and well-performed
selection of sacred music is listened to by a decent and attentive audience, of the same class
as the performers, mingled with their employers and their families. Hence, the practice of
this music is an ordinary domestic and social recreation among the working classes of these
districts, and its influence is of the most salutary kind." We can ourselves bear witness to
the truth of many of these remarks. In some of the more rural portions of the manufacturing
districts of Lancashire, we have often listened to the voices of little bands of happy children,
who, while returning home after the labours of the day were over, were singing psalms and hymns
to tunes learned at the national or Sunday schools. A highly interesting example of the superior
musical capacity of the inhabitants of this county, came under our observation a few years
ago, at a large and populous village situated on the borders of one of the extensive fields
of industry of which we speak. On the anniversary of the opening of the school, the children
frequenting it--in number nearly 300--had been long accustomed to march in procession up to
the mansion of the neighbouring squire, the founder and endower of the school. Ranged upon
the lawn in the presence of their aged benefactor and his family--children, grandchildren,
and great-grandchildren, were among them--led by no instrument, and guided only by the voices
of their teachers, they performed an anthem, in parts, with an accuracy and precision which
was truly wonderful. As their young voices rose in simple beauty to the skies, tears coursed
down the old man's cheek, and though already bowed by the weight of nearly ninety years, he
bent still lower, to hide the emotion which overcame him. Six months after this occurrence,
those children were drawn up to pay their last tribute of respect to their benefactor, as his
remains passed to their final resting-place. In the churches of the north, the school-children
may be seen singing with evident delight, not the mere passive instruments of the masters or
teachers, but joining heart and soul with the congregation. The Lancashire chorus singers have
long enjoyed an extended reputation; at the last festival at Westminster Abbey, they proved
the principal strength of the choral band. In other parts of the kingdom, far less aptitude
for music is shown among the working classes. The singing in the churches is, for the most
part, of the lowest order. In many parishes considerable pains have, of late, been taken in
order to improve the psalmody, but no corresponding effect has been produced. In the agricultural
districts of the south of England, no songs are heard lightening the daily toil of the labourer,
and the very plough-boys can hardly raise a whistle. It is impossible to account for this;
but the fact will be acknowledged by all who have had the opportunity of observation.

In speculating upon the future prospects of music and musical taste and science in England,
the two rival systems of teaching which have been recently introduced, must necessarily become
the subjects of remark and observation. The names of the teachers of these systems are no doubt
well known to all our readers. Mainzer, who is himself the author, as well as the teacher,
of one system, and Hullah, the teacher of the system of Wilhelm. Wilhelm's method has been
stamped by authority, and the Committee of the Council on Education, after "carefully examining"
manuals of vocal music collected in Switzerland, Holland, the German States, Russia, Austria,
and France, in order to ascertain the characteristic differences and general tendency of the
respective methods adopted in these countries, at length decided in favour of Wilhelm. The
accounts received of the success of this system in Paris, induced the Council to secure the
assistance of Mr Hullah, who was known to have given much attention to the subject, and to
have been already engaged in making trials of the method. The system of Wilhelm has, therefore,
acquired the ascendency, and Mr Hullah has been invested with the character or office of national
instructor, in which capacity he is said to realize upwards of L.5000 per annum--almost as
many pounds, according to Mr Barnett, as Wilhelm, the inventor of the system, received francs.
The prominent station and the large income realized by a junior in the profession, has naturally
roused the jealousy and excited the envy of his elder brethren, many of whom, perhaps, found
"their occupation" almost "gone." The vast amount of the bitterness thus engendered, may be
conceived, when the reader is informed, that, in London alone, it has been computed that music
affords a livelihood to more than 5000 persons. In the midst of such a host of bitter rivals,
the imperfections and defects of this all-engrossing system are sure of exposure. Many grave
and serious charges have been advanced against the mode in which a superficial and deceptive
success has been made to appear real, sound, and healthy. These charges have been reiterated
in a pamphlet, recently published by one who is, perhaps, the first of our native living masters--Mr
Barnett. Those great exhibitions at Exeter Hall, in the presence of the magnates of the land,
at which none but the pupils of Mr Hullah were stated to be allowed to attend, have been declared
to be "packed" meetings. There is an equivoque in the terms pupil and classes; with the public
they would naturally be taken to mean those persons, and those only, who had commenced their
musical career in the classes taught by Mr Hullah: but according to the official interpretation
of the terms, they appear to mean, all who now are or ever have been receiving instruction
in Wilhelm's method. Now, it must be remembered, that Mr Hullah has instructed in Wilhelm's
method many who had, for years, gained their bread by teaching music; who, having been induced
to abandon their old system, and to adopt the new method from the superior remuneration it
affords, were probably all able to take as efficient a part in the performance, when they commenced
the nine lessons which entitle them to the certificate of competency, as when their course
of instruction was concluded. Hundreds of such pupils may, for aught we know, have been judiciously
disposed among the remainder of the 1700 who performed on the grand occasions to which we allude.
But to enable us to judge of the efficiency of a system of instruction, we must not only witness
the performance of the pupil, but we must also know the point from which he started. Now, these
demonstrations having been got up expressly for the purpose of exhibiting the skill and progress
of Mr Hullah's classes, all, therefore, that was necessary in order to form a judgment upon
the question thus submitted to the public, though not directly asserted, was nevertheless necessarily
implied. At all events, the public were simple enough so to understand the matter. But when
the mistake was at length discovered, instead of at once correcting the error, if such indeed
it was, recourse was had to a disingenuous quibble on words, which would, therefore, seem to
have been purposely rendered obscure. It will thus be seen how fallacious a test these performances
afford, either of the real merits of the system, or of the actual progress or efficiency of
those who have received instruction from no other source. But, besides this charge, the truth
of which is thus virtually admitted, it has also publicly been charged against the conductors
of the Exeter Hall performances, that many able musicians, who never were the pupils of any
teacher of the Wilhelm method, were surreptitiously introduced among the classes at these great
choral meetings. This is a grave accusation; it has been made not anonymously nor in the dark,
but backed and supported by the open disclosure of the name and address of the several parties
by whom it has been publicly brought forward. Of the truth or falsehood of this serious imputation
we know nothing more than that it is raised by facts, which have been stated, but which, so
far as we can learn, have never received any denial or explanation. On one of these occasions
we were present. We can bear testimony to the effect produced by much of the music then performed.
Mr Hullah certainly appeared to possess great power over the numerous assembly, and the facility
with which he hushed them almost down to silence, or made them raise their voices till there
seemed no limits to their united power, was almost magical. But beyond this, in the words of
an able weekly journalist, "no means of forming any opinions were before us--the whole affair
might be a cheat and a delusion--we had no test by which to try it. We have hitherto," continues
the writer, "spoken of these exhibitions at Exeter Hall as realities, as being what they were
affirmed to be. This is no longer possible. If Mr Hullah has any real confidence in his 'system,'
he will eagerly seek a real scrutiny into its merits; hitherto there has been none." Our own
personal observation does not enable us to be very enthusiastic in the praise of the Wilhelm
system. A few weeks only have elapsed, since we attended a meeting of a class, whose progress
we had watched, from time to time, from its earliest infancy. This class had gone through the
course of sixty lessons, but continued still to receive instruction. Their power of singing
at sight was tested in our presence--a piece of music they had never seen before was placed
in their hands. The first attempt to execute this at sight was lame, and halted terribly; the
second was somewhat better, but as we moved about, from one pupil to another, to ascertain,
as far as possible, the individual accuracy of the class, we heard many voices, in a subdued
tone, making a number of admirable guesses at their part, but the owners of which could not,
by the utmost courtesy, be considered to be singing at sight. The basses missed many a "distance,"
the tenors were interrupted by the master, and worked, in the defective passages, separately
from the rest of the class for a while, by ear!! A third attempt was made with somewhat better
success, and the piece was accomplished in a rambling uncertain manner. During the whole of
this trial, the trebles were led by the master's apprentice, a sharp clever boy, who retained
a voice of peculiar beauty and power to the unusually late age of sixteen, and who had commenced
his musical studies six or eight years before. We considered this experiment a failure; it
may be said the fault lay in the teacher, not in the method; true, the master was not Mr Hullah,
but he was one of the "certificated," and the partisans of Mr Hullah, in the language of the
lawyers, are estopped from asserting his incompetency. We have known pupils, not deficient
in general ability, who, having attended the greater part of "the course," during which they
paid great attention to their studies, were unable to read more than a few bars of the simplest
music, beyond which they were lost and confused. Without naming the notes Do, Re, &c., they
were utterly unable to proceed at all, and it appeared to us that, by seeing those syllables
written on paper, they would have gathered a more correct idea of the music, than by attempting
to read from music written in the ordinary manner. This is the result of the invariable use
of those syllables in exercising the voice. In the best continental schools, they have long
been obsolete for such a purpose. Still, the Hullah-Wilhelm mania will, no doubt, produce considerable
effect, even though the system should fall short of the expectations of its friends and promoters.
We have now commenced our first national effort in this direction; either, the prejudices which
so long delayed this effort have been overcome, or, the "National Society" is now too strong
to bow, entirely, to the opinions or prejudices of one of its earliest and most influential
patrons--one who long resisted the introduction of musical instruction into the schools of
the society; and who, some twenty years ago, is said, on one occasion, actually to have thrown
out of the windows of the central school some cards and boards on which the elements of music
were printed, and which had been introduced by some of the committee. But for the influence
of this nobleman the effort had, perhaps, been made many years ago. The "premier pas" has,
however, at length been taken. The public mind is roused; all, from the highest to the lowest,
frequent the classes of Mr Hullah. Royalty itself deigns to listen. "THE DUKE" himself takes
delight in the peaceful notes of Exeter Hall, and the Premier has found leisure, from the business
and service of the State, to scrutinize the performance of "the classes." It must surely be
a pleasant thing to sing to princes, warriors, and statesmen--all that the country holds most
in honour, love, and reverence. The impulse thus given is felt throughout the land. Classes
are formed in every town, almost in every village; the labourer, the mechanic, young men and
maidens, old men and children, may be seen, after their daily toil is done, busy with the do,
re, mi, fa, &c., of the class-book. Although the system may not prove all that might be desired,
yet much is taught and learned, and the desire of acquiring more is created. The general standard
of music, and musical taste, must necessarily be raised far above its previous resting-place.
It must, however, be ever borne in mind, that the system professes only to teach sight-singing,
or, in other words, the power of reading music. This power is wholly distinct from that of
singing, as we have above defined the art; those who having attended, and profited to the utmost
by the course, will be grievously disappointed if they expect at its close to find themselves
accomplished singers. The management of the voice is still required, and many vicious habits,
contracted during the practice at the class, will have to be forgotten. This, however, cannot
be felt by the million, to whom any musical instruction will be a gift of unspeakable value,
in a social and moral point of view. The Committee of the Council well observe, that "amusements
which wean the people from vicious indulgences are in themselves a great advantage; they contribute
indirectly to the increase of domestic comfort, and promote the contentment of the artisan.
The songs of any people may be regarded as important means of forming an industrious, brave,
loyal, and religious working-class." Mr Barnett calls this, "nothing but egregious cant, got
up by the teachers of the Wilhelm plan, both in France and here." In this we cannot agree with
Mr Barnett, and we scarcely understand why he should be betrayed into so much heat upon the
occasion. For ourselves, we rejoice to see any system at work for the purpose of instructing
the working classes in the elements of music; and it seems to us a monstrous proposition, and
nothing short of an insult to our countrymen, on the part of the prominent opposer of the Wilhelm
system, to assert that the knowledge or cultivation of an art, which throughout all history
has advanced hand in hand with civilization and refinement, should, among the labouring classes
of England, be productive only of idleness, drunkenness, or debauchery.

The instruction of the lower classes in vocal music, however beneficial and important as an
element in civilization, or however advantageous as a means by which the general taste of the
people may be elevated and refined, will not be found all-sufficient, in itself, to raise our
musical reputation as a nation. Native music is at a low ebb at present; and, while musical
entertainments are in such general request as almost to have excluded the "legitimate" drama
from the stage, no attempt to introduce any English opera has been recently made. Into such
oblivion or disrepute have English composers fallen, that some of the most eminent have actually
left London. One well-known veteran now lives in honourable retirement in the Modern Athens.
Another, once popular and admired, "disgusted with London and the profession," and "having
given up all thoughts of again appearing before the London public as an operatic composer,"
is said to have migrated in the capacity of singing-master to a fashionable watering-place;
while a third, once equally well known, has left the kingdom altogether, and has settled himself
in Paris. The public ear has learned to appreciate music of a high class; and, judging from
the past, the manager perhaps dare not incur the risk of bringing out a new native opera. It
is certainly much to be regretted that the existing demand should not be supplied from native
sources, and thus serve the purpose of national advancement in the art; but English music does
not take. Does the fault rest with the public or with the musician? It is easy, and no doubt
convenient, contemptuously to apply the epithet, "hacknied," to the operas recently adapted
to the English stage; but how is it that the old "hacknied" music of the Italians should be
preferred to the novelties of our native school? Here again the public taste has advanced too
fast, and, owing to the inferiority of our home productions, the foreigner has gained possession
of the market.[2] Where is the remedy for this unfortunate state of things? Some master-mind,
some musical Napoleon, may rise up and take the world by storm; but such an event is particularly
unlikely now. The hour generally makes the man, and the necessities of the moment often call
forth talents and energies, the existence of which was wholly unsuspected by their possessors.
For aught we know, many a hero may be now among the ranks, and many a gallant officer now before
the mast, undistinguished from lack of opportunity, unknown because circumstances have not
developed his dormant powers. How then can the hour be hastened, and the opportunity of developing
our musical powers be afforded? The answer is, by the establishment of a National Opera. It
has been observed that every nation that has risen to musical greatness, possesses a musical
opera. Even the French, who, according to Mr Hullah, "have the least possible claim to a high
musical organization," have, nevertheless, long possessed a national opera, boasting the best
orchestra in Europe, and producing masters whose works have been successfully transplanted,
and singers who have met with universal admiration. At the present moment, Paris has two national
musical theatres, the Académie Royale, and the Opera Comique: and the establishment of a third
is said to be in contemplation. The possibility of forming such an establishment at the present
time in England, may be reasonably called in question. The attempt made some ten years ago,
though commended by the minister of the day, was signally abortive; and the subsequent endeavour
of a popular musician to open a theatre for the performance of English operas, was equally
futile and unsuccessful. One thing of primary importance--the patronage of the higher classes--was
wanting to both these efforts. Were the stamp of fashion once impressed upon such an undertaking,
success would be certain, did the fiat of the great world once go forth, the thing would be
accomplished. The marvellous impulse recently given to musical instruction throughout the kingdom,
shows the vast power, for good, possessed by the higher classes of aristocratic England. We
have often lamented the apathy of the fashionable world on this subject, and we can entertain
no hope of aristocratic support and encouragement for the English opera. There may, however,
be some hope, though faint and distant, for our musicians. In consequence of a national musical
education, a national opera may become a national want; and we can scarcely conceive it possible,
that the wide diffusion of musical taste and knowledge should fail ultimately, to produce a
large and never-failing demand for dramatic music. Then would our musicians have a wide, fair
field for the development of their resources, success, the highest and most brilliant, would
be within their reach, and would depend entirely on themselves. If, under such circumstances,
the reputation of our country did not quickly rise, bright and resplendent in the musical horizon,
our hopes of universal excellence would indeed be crushed for ever.

[Footnote 2: No. cccxxvii. p. 130.]

It might be long before we rivalled either of the great continental schools, each of which
would doubtless long retain its ancient worshippers. Of these two schools, of a character and
style so different, we confess a preference for the smooth, voluptuous, peaceful flow of the
Italian, rather than the stern, but sublimer, beauty of the German. The one, like the soft
and glowing landscape of its native land, refreshes the spirit, warms the heart, and kindles
the affections; the latter, like the wild and often savage grandeur of the scenery of Switzerland,
chills, while it awes and subdues the soul. There is a smiling kindliness about the former,
which fascinates and attracts; the latter often pains and distracts, by an intense and varied
action which admits of no repose. It is as the tranquil elegance of the Venus of the Tribune,
or the calm dignity of the Apollo of the Vatican, contrasted with the nervous energy of the
works of Buonarroti, or the sublime but fearful agony of the Laocoon.

The more enthusiastic admirers of the productions of the Germans, that race of musical Michael
Angelos, often despise the lamer attributes of the music of the "sweet south." Such spirits
delight in the storm and the whirlwind; peace and repose have probably no charms for them.

            "Music was ordain'd,
    Was it not, to refresh the mind of man,
    After his studies, or his actual pain?"

Many fly to music to soothe and compose the mind, others seek it as a means of new and fresh
excitement. Neither are now able, in the music of their country, to find all they seek. We
are not, however, without hope for the future. Never till now has music formed an element in
national education; and the movement now extending throughout the land, must of necessity be
the means of elevating and refining the musical taste of our countrymen. Improvements, like
those already manifest in the sister arts of painting and sculpture, may be now about to show
themselves in music. Even our sons may wonder at the taste which could tolerate the music which
their fathers had applauded and admired; and England, long pre-eminent in the useful arts and
sciences, and the serious and more weighty affairs of life, may at length become equally distinguished
in the fine arts, and all those lighter and more elegant pursuits, which, throughout the history
of mankind, have ever formed the peculiar characteristics of a high degree of civilization
and refinement.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHILHELLENIC DRINKING-SONG.

BY B. SIMMONS.

    Come let us drink their memory,
      Those glorious Greeks of old--
    On shore and sea the Famed, the Free,
      The Beautiful--the Bold!
    The mind or mirth that lights each page,
      Or bowl by which we sit,
    Is sunfire pilfer'd from their age--
      Gems splinter'd from their wit.
        Then drink we to their memory,
          Those glorious Greeks of yore;
        Of great or true, we can but do
          What they have done before!

    We've had with THE GREAT KING to cope--
      What if the scene he saw--
    The modern Xerxes--from the slope
      Of crimson Quatre-bras,
    Was but the fruit we early won
      From tales of Grecian fields
    Such as the swords of Marathon
      Carved on the Median shields
        Oh, honour to those chainless Greeks,
          We drink them one and all,
        Who block'd that day Oppression's way
          As with a brazen wall!

    Theirs was the marble land where, woo'd
      By love-born Taste, the Gods
    Themselves the life of stone endured
      In more divine abodes
    Than blest their own Olympus bright;
      Then in supreme repose,
    Afar star glittering, high and white
      Athenè's shrine arose.
        So the days of Pericles
          The votive goblet fill--
        In fane or mart we but distort
          His grand achievements still!

    Fill to their Matrons' memory--
      The Fair who knew no fear--
    But gave the hero's shield to be
      His bulwark or his bier.[3]
    We boast their dauntless blood----it fills
      That lion-woman's veins,
    Whose praise shall perish when thy hills,
      JELLALABAD, are plains!
        That LADY'S health! who doubts she heard
          Of Greece, and loved to hear?
        The wheat, two thousand years interr'd,
          Will still its harvest bear.[4]

    The lore of Greece--the book still bright
      With Plato's precious thought--
    The Theban's harp--the judging-right
      Stagyra's sophist taught--
    Bard, Critic, Moralist to-day
      Can but their spirit speak,
    The self-same thoughts transfused. Away,
      We are not Gael but Greek.
        Then drink, and dream the red grape weeps
          Those dead but deathless lords,
        Whose influence in our bosom sleeps,
          Like music in the chords.

    Yet 'tis not in the chiming hour
      Of goblets, after all,
    That thoughts of old Hellenic Power
      Upon the heart should fall.
    Go home--and ponder o'er the hoard
      When night makes silent earth:
    The Gods the Roman most adored,
      He worshipp'd at the hearth.
        Then, drink and swear by Greece, that there
          Though Rhenish Huns may hive,
        In Britain we the liberty
          She loved will keep alive.

[Footnote 3: "Return with it or upon it" was the well-known injunction of a Greek mother, as
she handed her son his shield previous to the fight.]

[Footnote 4: The mummy-wheat.]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PRAIRIE AND THE SWAMP.

AN ADVENTURE IN LOUISIANA.

It was a sultry September afternoon in the year 18--. My friend Carleton and myself had been
three days wandering about the prairies, and had nearly filled our tin boxes and other receptacles
with specimens of rare and curious plants. But we had not escaped paying the penalty of our
zeal as naturalists, in the shape of a perfect roasting from the sun, which had shot down its
rays during the whole time of our ramble, with an ardour only to be appreciated by those who
have visited the Louisianian prairies. What made matters worse our little store of wine had
been early expended; some Taffia, with which we had replenished our flasks, had also disappeared;
and the water we met with, besides being rare, contained so much vegetable and animal mater,
as to be undrinkable unless qualified in some manner. In this dilemma, we came to a halt under
a clump of hickory trees, and dispatched Martin, Carleton's Acadian servant, upon a voyage
of discovery. He had assured us that we must erelong fall in with some party of Americans--or
Cochon Yankees, as he called them--who, in spite of the hatred borne them by the Acadians and
Creoles, were daily becoming more numerous in the country.

After waiting, in anxious expectation of Martin's return, for a full hour, during which the
air seemed to get more and more sultry, my companion began to wax impatient. "What can the
fellow be about?" cried he. "Give a blast on the horn," he added, handing me the instrument;
"I cannot sound it myself, for my tongue cleaves to my palate from heat and drought."

I put the horn to my mouth, and gave a blast. But the tones emitted were not the clear echo-awakening
sounds that cheer and strengthen the hunter. They were dull and short, as though the air had
lost all elasticity and vibration, and by its weight crushed back the sounds into the horn.
It was a warning of some inscrutable danger. We gazed around us, and saw that others were not
wanting.

The spot where we had halted was on the edge of one of those pine forests that extend, almost
without interruption, from the hills of the Côte Gelée to the Opelousa mountains, and of a
vast prairie, sprinkled here and there with palmetto fields, clumps of trees, and broad patches
of brushwood, which appeared mere dark specks on the immense extent of plain that lay before
us, covered with grass of the brightest green, and so long, as to reach up to our horses' shoulders.
To the right was a plantation of palmettos, half a mile wide, and bounded by a sort of creek
or gully, the banks of which were covered with gigantic cypress-trees. Beyond this, more prairie
and a wood of evergreen oak. To the east, an impenetrable thicket of magnolias, papaws, oak
and bean trees--to the north, the pine wood before mentioned.

Such was the rich landscape we had been surrounded by a short hour before. But now, on looking
around, we found the scene changed; and our horizon became far more limited by rising clouds
of bluish grey vapour, which approached us rapidly from the wind quarter. Each moment this
fog appeared to become thicker; the sun no longer dazzled our eyes when we gazed on it, but
showed through the mist like a pale red moon; the outlines of the forest disappeared, veiled
from our sight by masses of vapour; and the air, which, during the morning, had been light
and elastic, although hot, became each moment heavier and more difficult to inhale. The part
of the prairie that remained visible, presented the appearance of a narrow, misty valley, enclosed
between two mighty ranges of grey mountains, which the fog represented. As we gazed around
us and beheld these strange phenomena, our eyes met, and we read in each others countenance
that embarrassment which the bravest and most light-hearted are apt to feel, when hemmed in
by perils of which they cannot conjecture the nature.

"Fire off your gun," said I to Carleton. I started as I spoke at the alteration in my own voice.
The gun went off, but the report was, as it were, stifled by the compressed atmosphere. It
did not even alarm some water-fowl that were plashing and floundering in the creek a few hundred
paces from us.

"Look at our horses!" exclaimed Carleton. "They are surely going mad." The animals were evidently
uneasy at something. They pricked up their ears, turned half round, and gazed with startled
eye behind them; then strained with their heads and necks in the opposite direction to the
vapour, snorting violently, and at last trying to break away from the trees to which they were
tied. A short time previously they had appeared much fatigued, but now they were all fire and
impatience.

"It is impossible to remain here," said Carleton.

"But whither shall we go?"

"Wherever our horses choose to take us."

We untied the animals and sprang upon them. But scarcely were we in the saddle when they started
off at a pace as frantic as if a pack of wolves had been at their heels; and taking the direction
of the creek, which ran between the palmetto plantation and a cypress wood, continued along
its banks at the same wild gallop. As we advanced, the creek began to widen; in place of palmettos,
clumps of marsh reeds, and rushes showed themselves here and there. An unearthly stillness
prevailed, only broken now and then by the cry of a wild-goose; and even that appeared strange
and unnatural in its sound.

"What can be the meaning of this?" cried Carleton. "I am burning with heat, and yet I have
not the slightest moisture on my skin. All these signs are incomprehensible. For God's sake,
sound the horn again."

I did so, but this time the sound seemed to be forced back through the horn, and to die away
upon my lips. The air was so hot and parching, that our horses' coats, which a short time previous
had been dripping with sweat, were now perfectly dry, and the hair plastered upon them; the
animals' tongues hung out of their mouths, and they seemed panting for cooler air. "Look yonder!"
cried Carleton, and he pointed to the line of the horizon, which had hitherto been of grey,
lead-coloured vapour. It was now becoming reddish in the south-west quarter, and the vapour
had taken the appearance of smoke. At the same time we heard a sort of distant crackling, like
a heavy running-fire of musketry, and which was repeated at short intervals. Each time it was
heard, our horses appeared scared and trembling.

The creek was getting rapidly wider, and the ground so swampy that it was impossible to proceed
further. Seeing this, we agreed to return to the prairie, and to try if it were not cooler
among the palmettos. But when we came to the place where we had crossed the creek, our horses
refused to take the leap again, and it was with the greatest difficulty we at length forced
them over. All this time the redness in the horizon was getting brighter, and the atmosphere
hotter and drier; the smoke had spread itself over prairie, forest, and plantations. We continued
retracing our steps as well as we could to the spot where we had halted. "See there," said
Carleton; "not half an hour ago those reeds were as fresh and green as if they had just sprung
out of the earth, and now look at them--the leaves are hanging down, parched and curled up
by the heat."

The whole prairie, the whole horizon to the south-west, was now one mass of dense smoke, through
which the sun's disc looked scarcely brighter than a paper-lantern. Behind the thick curtain
which thus concealed every thing from our view, we heard a loud hissing, like that of a multitude
of snakes. The smoke was stifling and unbearable; our horses again turned panting round, and
tore madly towards the creek. On reaching it we dismounted, but had the greatest difficulty
to prevent them from leaping into the water. The streaks of red to our right became brighter
and brighter, and gleamed through the huge, dark trunks of the cypress-trees. The crackling
and hissing grew louder than ever. Suddenly the frightful truth flashed upon us, and at the
very same moment Carleton and I exclaimed, "The prairie is on fire!"

As we uttered the words, there was a loud rustling behind us, and a herd of deer broke headlong
through a thicket of tall reeds and bulrushes, and dashed up to their necks into the water.
There they remained, not fifty paces from us, little more than their heads above the surface,
gazing at us, as though imploring our help and compassion. We fancied we could see tears in
the poor beasts' eyes.

We looked behind us. On came the pillars of flame, flickering and threatening through the smoke,
licking up all before them; and, at times, a gust of so hot and blasting a wind as seemed to
dry the very marrow in our bones. The roaring of the fire was now distinctly audible, mingled
with hissing, whistling sounds, and cracking noises, as of mighty trees falling. Suddenly a
bright flame shot up through the stifling smoke, and immediately afterwards a sea of fire burst
upon our aching eyeballs. The whole palmetto field was in flames.

The heat was so great, that we every moment expected to see our clothes take fire. Our horses
dragged us still nearer to the creek, sprang into the water, and drew us down the bank after
them. Another rustling and noise in the thicket of reeds. A she-bear, with her cubs at her
heels, came towards us; and at the same time a second herd of deer rushed into the water not
twenty yards from where we were standing. We pointed our guns at the bears; they moved off
towards the deer, who remained undisturbed at their approach; and there they stood, bears and
deer, not five paces apart, but taking no more notice of each other than if they had been animals
of the same species. More beasts now came flocking to the river. Deer, wolves, foxes, horses--all
came in crowds to seek shelter in one element from the fury of another. Most of them, however,
went further up the creek, where it took a north-easterly direction, and widened into a sort
of lake. Those that had first arrived began to follow the new-comers, and we did the same.

Suddenly the baying of hounds was heard. "Hurra! there are dogs; men must be near." A volley
from a dozen rifles was the answer to our explanation. The shots were fired not two hundred
yards from us, yet we saw nothing of the persons who fired them. The wild beasts around us
trembled and crouched before this new danger, but did not attempt to move a step. We ourselves
were standing in the midst of them up to our waists in water. "Who goes there?" we shouted.
Another volley, and this time not one hundred yards off. We saw the flashes of the pieces,
and heard voices talking in a dialect compounded of French and Indian. We perceived that we
had to do with Acadians. A third volley, and the bullets whistled about our ears. It was getting
past a joke. "Halt!" shouted we, "stop firing till you see what you are firing at." There was
a dead silence for a moment, then a burst of savage laughter. "Fire! fire!" cried two or three
voices.

"If you fire," cried I, "look out for yourselves, for we shall do the same. Have a care what
you are about."

"Morbleu! Sacre!" roared half a score of voices. "Who is that who dares to give us orders?
Fire on the dogs!"

"If you do, we return it."

"Sacre!" screamed the savages. "They are gentlemen from the towns. Their speech betrays them.
Shoot them--the dogs, the spies! What do they want in the prairie?"

"Your blood be on your own heads," cried I. And, with the feelings of desperate men, we levelled
our guns in the direction in which we had seen the flashes of the last volley. At that moment--"Halt!
What is here?" shouted a stentorian voice close to us.

"Stop firing, or you are dead men," cried five or six other voices.

"Sacre! ce sont des Americains," muttered the Acadians.

"Monsieur Carleton!" cried a voice.

"Here!" replied my friend. A boat shot out of the smoke, between us and our antagonists. Carleton's
servant was in it. The next moment we were surrounded by a score of Acadians and half-a-dozen
Americans.

It appeared that the Acadians, so soon as they perceived the prairie to be on fire, had got
into boat and descended a creek that flowed into the Chicot creek, on which we now were. The
beasts of the forest and prairie, flying to the water, found themselves inclosed in the angle
formed by the two creeks, and their retreat being cut off by the fire, they fell an easy prey
to the Acadians, wild, half savage fellows, who slaughtered them in a profusion and with a
brutality that excited our disgust, a feeling which the Americans seemed to share.

"Well, stranger!" said one of the latter, an old man, to Carleton, "do you go with them Acadians
or come with us?"

"Who are you, my friends?"

"Friends!" repeated the Yankee, shaking his head, "your friendships are soon made. Friends,
indeed! We ain't that yet; but if you be minded to come with us, well and good."

"I met these American gentlemen," now put in Martin, "and when they heard that you had lost
your way, and were out of provisions, they were so good as to come and seek you."

"You be'n't much used to the prairie, I reckon?" observed the American who had spoken before.

"No, indeed, my friend," said I.

"I told you a'ready," replied the man with some degree of pride, "we ain't your friends; but
if you choose to accept American hospitality, you're welcome."

We glanced at the Acadians, who were still firing, and dragging the beasts they slaughtered
into their boat and to the shore. They appeared perfect savages, and there was little temptation
to seek guidance or assistance at their hands.

"If it is agreeable to you, we will accompany you," said I to the American, making a step towards
the boat. We were eager to be off, for the heat and smoke were unbearable. The Yankee answered
neither yes nor no. His attention seemed taken up by the proceedings of the Acadians.

"They're worse than Injuns," said he to a young man standing by him. "They shoot more in an
hour than they could eat in a year in their tarnation French wastefulness."

"I've a notion o' makin' 'em leave off," replied the young man.

"The country's theirs, or their masters' at least," rejoined the other. "I reckon it's no business
of ours."

This dialogue was carried on with the greatest possible degree of drawling deliberation, and
under circumstances in which, certainly, none but a Yankee would have thought of wasting time
in words. A prairie twenty miles long and ten broad, and a couple of miles of palmetto ground,
all in a blaze--the flames drawing nearer every minute, and having, in some places, already
reached up to the shores of the creek. On the other side a couple of dozen wild Acadians firing
right and left, without paying the least attention where or whom their bullets struck. Carelton
and myself, up to our waists in water, and the Americans, chatting together as unconcernedly
as if they had been sitting under the roofs of their own blockhouses.

"Do you live far from here?" said I at last to the Yankee, rather impatiently.

"Not so far as I sometimes wish," answered he, with a contemptuous glance at the Acadians,
"but far enough to get you an appetite for your supper, if you ain't got one already." And
taking a thin roll of tobacco out of his pocket, he bit off a piece of it, laid his hands upon
the muzzle of his rifle, leant his chin upon his hands, and seemed to have forgotten all about us.

This apathy became intolerable to men in our situation.

"My good man," said I, "will you put your hospitable offer into execution, and take----"

I could not continue, for I was literally suffocated with the heat and smoke. The very water
of the creek was getting warm.

"I've a notion," said the yankee, with his usual drawl, and apparently only just perceiving
our distress, "I've a notion we had better be movin' out o' the way o' the fire. Now, strangers,
in with you." And he helped Carleton and myself into the boat, where we lay down, and became
insensible from heat and exhaustion.

When we recovered our senses, we found ourselves in the bottom of the boat, and the old Yankee
standing by us with a bottle of whisky in his hand, which he invited us to taste. We felt better
for the cordial, and began to look around us.

Before us lay an apparently interminable cypress swamp, behind us a sheet of water, formed
by the junction of the two creeks, and at present overhung by a mass of smoke that concealed
the horizon from our view. From time to time there was a burst of flame that lit up the swamp,
and caused the cypress-trees to appear as if they grew out of a sea of fire.

"Come," said the old Yankee, "we must get on. It is near sunset, and we have far to go."

"And which way does our road lie?" I asked.

"Across the cypress swamp, unless you'd rather go round it."

"The shortest road is the best," said Carleton.

"The shortest road is the best!" repeated the Yankee contemptuously, and turning to his companions.
"Spoken like a Britisher. Well, he shall have his own way, and the more so as I believe it
to be as good a one as the other. James," added he, turning to one of the men, "you go further
down, through the Snapping Turtle swamp; we will cross here."

"And our horses?" said I.

"They are grazing in the rushes. They'll be took care of. We shall have rain to-night, and
to-morrow they may come round without singeing a hoof."

I had found myself once or twice upon the borders of the swamp that now lay before us but had
always considered it impenetrable, and I did not understand, as I gazed into its gloomy depths,
how we could possibly cross it.

"Is there any beaten path or road through the swamp?" enquired I of the old man.

"Path or road! Do you take it for a gentleman's park? There's the path that natur' has made."
And he sprang upon the trunk of a tree covered with moss and creepers, which rose out of the
vast depth of mud that formed the swamp.

"Here's the path," said he.

"Then we will wait and come round with our horses," I replied. "Where shall we find them?"

"As you please, stranger. We shall cross the swamp. Only, if you can't do like your horses,
and sup off bulrushes, you are likely to fast for the next twenty-four hours.

"And why so? There is game and wild-fowl for the shooting."

"No doubt there is, if you can eat them raw, like the Injuns. Where will you find, within two
miles round, a square foot of dry land to make your fire on?"

To say the truth, we did not altogether like the company we had fallen amongst. These Yankee
squatters bore in general but an indifferent character. They were said to fear neither God
nor man, to trust entirely to their axe and their rifle, and to be little scrupulous in questions
of property; in short, to be scarce less wild and dangerous than the Indians themselves.

The Yankee who had hitherto acted as spokesman, and who seemed to be in some way or other the
chief of the party, was a man apparently near sixty years of age, upwards of six feet high,
thin in person, but with such bone and muscle as indicated great strength in the possessor.
His features were keen and sharp; his eye like a falcon's; his bearing and manners bespoke
an exalted opinion of himself, and (at least as far as we were concerned) a tolerable degree
of contempt for others. His dress consisted of a jacket of skins, secured round the waist by
a girdle, in which was stuck a long knife; leather breeches, a straw hat without a brim, and
mocassins. His companion was similarly accoutred.

"Where is Martin?" cried Carleton.

"Do you mean the Acadian lad who brought us to you?"

"The same."

The Yankee pointed towards the smoke. "Yonder, no doubt, with his countrymen; but I reckon
their infernal hunt is over. I hear no more shots."

"Then we will go to him. But where are our horses?"

"I've a notion," said one of the younger men, "the stranger don't rightly know what he wants.
Your horses are grazing half a mile off. You would not have had us make the poor beasts swim
through the creek tied to the stern of the boat? 'Lijah is with them."

"And what will he do with them?"

"Joel is going back with the boat, and when the fire is out he will bring them round," said
the elder Yankee. "You don't suppose--?" added he----He left the sentence unfinished, but a
smile of scornful meaning flitted over his features.

I looked at Carleton. He nodded. "We will go with you," said I, "and trust entirely to your
guidance."

"You do well," was the brief reply. "Joel," added he, turning to one of the young men, "where
are the torches? We shall want them?"

"Torches!" exclaimed I.

The Yankee gave me a look, as much as to say--You must meddle with every thing. "Yes," replied
he; "and, if you had ten lives, it would be as much as they are all worth to enter this swamp
without torches." So saying, he struck fire, and selecting a couple of pine splinters from
several lying in the boat, he lighted them, doing every thing with such extraordinary deliberation,
and so oddly, that in spite of our unpleasant situation we could scarce help laughing. Meantime
the boat pushed off with two men in it, leaving Carleton, myself, the old man, and another
American, standing at the edge of the swamp.

"Follow me, step by step, and as if you were treading on eggs," said our leader; "and you,
Jonathan, have an eye to the strangers, and don't wait till they are up to their necks in the
mud to pick them out of it."

We did not feel much comforted by this speech; but, mustering all our courage, we strode on
after our plain-spoken guide.

We had proceeded but a very short distance into the swamp before we found out the use of the
torches. The huge trunks of the cypress-trees, which stood four or five yards asunder, shot
up to a height of fifty feet, entirely free from branches, which then, however, spread out
at right angles to the stem, making the trees appear like gigantic umbrellas, and covering
the whole morass with an impenetrable roof, through which not even a sunbeam could find a passage.
On looking behind us, we saw the daylight at the entrance of the swamp, as at the mouth of
a vast cavern. The further we went the thicker became the air; and at last the effluvia was
so stifling and pestilential, that the torches burnt pale and dim, and more than once threatened
to go out.

"Yes, yes," muttered our guide to himself, "a night passed in this swamp would leave a man
ague-struck for the rest of his days. A night--ay, an hour would do it, if your pores were
ever so little open; but now there's no danger; the prairie fire's good for that, dries the
sweat and closes the pores."

He went on conversing thus with himself, but still striding forward, throwing his torchlight
on each log or tree trunk, and trying its solidity with his foot before he trusted his weight
upon it--doing all this with a dexterity and speed that proved his familiarity with these dangerous
paths.

"Keep close to me," said he to us, "but make yourselves light--as light at least as Britishers
can make themselves. Hold your breath, and----ha! what is that log? Hollo, Nathan," continued
he to himself, "what's come to you, man? Don't you know a sixteen foot alligator from a tree?"

He had stretched out his foot, but fortunately, before setting it down, he poked what he took
for a log with the butt of his gun. The supposed block of wood gave way a little, and the old
squatter, throwing himself back, was within an ace of pushing me into the swamp.

"Ah, friend!" said he, not in the least disconcerted, "you thought to sacumvent honest folk
with your devilry and cunning."

"What is the matter?" asked I.

"Not much the matter," he replied, drawing his knife from its sheath. "Only an alligator: there
it is again."

And in the place of the log, which had disappeared, the jaws of a huge alligator gaped before
us. I raised my gun to my shoulder. The Yankee seized my arm.

"Don't fire," whispered he. "Don't fire, so long as you can help it. We ain't alone here. This
will do as well," he added, as he stooped down, and drove his long knife into the alligator's
eye. The monster gave a frightful howl, and lashed violently with its tail, besprinkling us
with the black slimy mud of the swamp.

"Take that!" said the squatter with a grim smile, "and that, and that!" stabbing the brute
repeatedly between the neck and the ribs, while it writhed and snapped furiously at him. Then
wiping his knife, he stuck it in his belt, and looked keenly and cautiously around him.

"I've a notion there must be a tree trunk hereaway; it ain't the first time I've followed this
track. There it is, but a good six foot off." And so saying, he gave a spring, and alighted
in safety on the stepping place.

"Have a care, man," cried I. "There is water there. I see it glitter."

"Pho, water! What you call water is snakes. Come on."

I hesitated, and a shudder came over me. The leap, as regarded distance, was a trifling one,
but it was over an almost bottomless chasm, full of the foulest mud, on which the mocassin
snakes, the deadliest of the American reptiles, were swarming.

"Come on!"

Necessity lent me strength, and, pressing my left foot firmly against the log on which I was
standing, and which was each moment sinking with our weight deeper into the soft slimy ground,
I sprang across. Carleton followed me.

"Well done!" cried the old man. "Courage, and a couple more such leaps, and we shall be getting
over the worst of it."

We pushed on, steadily but slowly, never setting our foot on a log till we had ascertained
its solidity with the butts of our guns. The cypress swamp extended four or five miles along
the shores of the creek: it was a deep lake of black mud, covered over and disguised by a deceitful
bright green veil of creeping plants and mosses, which had spread themselves in their rank
luxuriance over its whole surface, and over the branches and trunks of trees scattered about
the swamp. These latter were not placed with any very great regularity, but had yet been evidently
arranged by the hand of man.

"There seems to have been a sort of path made here," said I to our guide, "for"----

"Silence!" interrupted he, in a low tone; "silence, for your life, till we are on firm ground
again. Don't mind the snakes," added he, as the torchlight revealed some enormous ones lying
coiled up on the moss and lianas close to us. "Follow me closely."

But just as I stretched forward my foot, and was about to place it in the very print that his
had left, the hideous jaw of an alligator was suddenly stretched over the tree-trunk, not six
inches from my leg, and the creature snapped at me so suddenly, that I had but just time to
fire my gun into his glittering lizard-like eye. The monster bounded back, uttered a sound
between a bellow and a groan, and, striking wildly about him in the morass, disappeared.

The American looked round when I fired, and an approving smile played about his mouth as he
said something to me which I did not hear, owing to the infernal uproar that now arose on all
sides of us and at first completely deafened me.

Thousands, tens of thousands, of birds and reptiles, alligators, enormous bull-frogs, night-owls,
ahingas, herons, whose dwellings were in the mud of the swamp, or on its leafy roof, now lifted
up their voices, bellowing, hooting, shrieking, and groaning. Bursting forth from the obscene
retreat in which they had hitherto lain hidden, the alligators raised their hideous snouts
out of the green coating of the swamp, gnashing their teeth, and straining towards us, while
the owls and other birds circled round our heads, flapping and striking us with their wings
as they passed. We drew our knives, and endeavoured to defend at least our heads and eyes;
but all was in vain against the myriads of enemies that surrounded us; and the unequal combat
could not possibly have lasted long, when suddenly a shot was fired, followed immediately by
another. The effect they produced was magical. The growls and cries of rage and fury were exchanged
for howls of fear and complaint; the alligators withdrew gradually into their native mud; the
birds flew in wider circles around us; the unclean multitudes were in full retreat. By degrees
the various noises died away. But our torches had gone out, and all around us was black as pitch.

"In God's name, are you there, old man?" asked I.

"What! still alive?" he replied with a laugh that jarred unpleasantly upon my nerves, "and
the other Britisher too? I told ye we were not alone. These brutes defend themselves if you
attack them upon their own ground, and a single shot is sufficient to bring them about one's
ears. But when they see you're in earnest, they soon get tired of it, and a couple more shots
sent among them generally drive them away again; for they are but senseless squealin' creturs
after all."

While the old man was speaking, he struck fire, and lit one of the torches.

"Luckily we have rather better footing here," continued he. "And now, forward quickly; for
the sun is set, and we have still some way to go."

And again he led the march with a skill and confidence in himself which each moment increased
our reliance on him. After proceeding in this manner for about half an hour, we saw a pale
light glimmering in the distance.

"Five minutes more and your troubles are over; but now is the time to be cautious, for it is
on the borders of these cursed swamps the alligators best love to lie."

In my eagerness to find myself once more on dry land, I scarcely heard the Yankee's words;
and as the stepping places were now near together, I hastened on, and got a little in front
of the party. Suddenly I felt a log on which I had just placed my foot, give way under me.
I had scarcely time to call out "Halt!" when I was up to the arm-pits in the swamp, with every
prospect of sinking still deeper.

"You will hurry on," said the old man with a laugh; and at the same time, springing forward,
he caught me by the hair. "Take warning for the future," added he, as he helped me out of the
mud; "and look there!"

I did look, and saw half a dozen alligators writhing and crawling in the noxious slime within
a few feet of us. I felt a sickening sensation, and for a moment I could not utter a word:
the Yankee produced his whisky-flask.

"Take a swallow of this," said he; "but no, better wait till we are out of the swamp. Stop
a little till your heart beats quieter. So, you are better now. When you've made two or three
such journeys with old Nathan, you'll be quite another man. Now--forward again."

A few minutes later we were out of the swamp, and looking over a field of palmettos that waved
and rustled in the moonbeams. The air was fresh, and once more we breathed freely.

"Now then," said our guide, "a dram, and then in half an hour we are at the Salt Lick."

"Where?" asked I.

"At the Salt Lick, to shoot a deer or two for supper. Hallo! what is that?"

"A thunderclap."

"A thunderclap! You have heard but few of them in Louisiana, I guess, or you would know the
difference betwixt thunder and the crack of a backwoodsman's rifle. To be sure, yonder oak
wood has an almighty echo. That's James's rifle--he has shot a stag.--There's another shot."

This time it was evidently a rifle-shot, but re-echoed like thunder from the depths of the
immense forest.

"We must let them know that we're still in whole skins, and not in the maw of an alligator,"
said the old man, who had been loading his rifle, and now fired it off.

In half an hour we were at the Salt Lick, where we found our guide's two sons busy disembowelling
and cutting up a fine buck that they had killed, an occupation in which they were so engrossed
that they scarce seemed to notice our arrival. We sat down, not a little glad to repose after
the fatigues and dangers we had gone through. When hind and fore quarters, breast and back,
were all divided in right huntsman-like style, the young men looked at their father. "Will
you take a bite and a sup here?" said the latter, addressing Carleton and myself, "or will
you wait till we get home?"

"How far is there still to go?"

"How far? With a good trotting horse, and a better road, three quarters of an hour would bring
you there. You may reckon it a couple of hours."

"Then we would prefer eating something here."

"As you will."

Without more words, or loss of time, a haunch was cut off one of the hind-quarters; dry leaves
and branches collected; and in one minute a fire was blazing brightly, the joint turning before
it on a wooden spit. In half an hour the party was collected round a roast haunch of venison,
which, although eaten without bread or any of the usual condiments, certainly appeared to us
to be the very best we had ever tasted.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ARISTOCRACY OF ENGLAND.

Both the nobility and gentry of this country stand upon a basis so entirely peculiar, that,
were it for that cause only, we could not greatly wonder at the perverse misconstructions upon
these institutions so prevalent abroad. Indeed the peculiarity of our aristocracy is so effectual
for obscurity, that we also, as a nation, are ignorant upon much which marks it characteristically;
our own ignorance partly explains, and partly has caused, the continental ignorance. Could
it, indeed, be expected that any people should be sensible of their own peculiarities as peculiarities?
Of all men, for instance, a Persian would be the last man from whom we could reasonably look
for an account of Persia; because those habits of Persians as Orientals, as Mussulmans, and
as heretic Mussulmans, which would chiefly fix the attention of Europeans, must be unexciting
to the mind of a native.

And universally we know that, in every community, the features which would most challenge attention
from a stranger, have been those which the natives systematically have neglected. If, but for
two days' residence, it were possible that a modern European could be carried back to Rome
and Roman society, what a harvest of interesting facts would he reap as to the habits of social
intercourse! Yet these are neglected by Roman writers, as phenomena too familiar, which there
was no motive for noticing. Why should a man notice as a singularity what every man witnesses
daily as an experience? A satirist, like Juvenal, is obliged, indeed, to notice particular
excesses: but this is done obliquely, and so far only as to identify the case he means; besides
that often they are caricatured. Or an antiquarian observer, like Athenæus, finds, after ten
centuries of social life amongst the same race, a field of observation in the present, which
he sees as contrasted with the past which he reads of. It is in that way only that we English
know any thing of our own past habits. Some of these are brought forward indirectly in the
evidence upon judicial trials--some in dramatic scenes; and, as happened in the case of Athenæus,
we see English historians, at periods of great conscious revolution, (Holinshed, for instance,[5]
whose youth had passed in the church reformation,) exerting themselves to recover, through
old men's recollections, traditions of a social life which they felt to be passing away for
ever. Except, however, in these two cases, the one indirect, the other by accident, coinciding
with an epoch of great importance, we find little in the way of description, or philosophic
examination, toward any sustained record of English civilization as intermitting from one era
to another, and periodically resumed. The same truth holds good of civilization on the Continent,
and for the same reason, viz. that no nation describes itself, or can do so. To see an object
you must not stand in its centre; your own station must be external. The eye cannot see itself,
nor a mechanic force measure itself, as if it were its own resistance.

[Footnote 5: An introduction, prefixed to Holinshed, descriptive of domestic life amongst the
English, as it may be presumed to have existed for the century before, (1450-1550,) was written
(according to our recollection) by Harrison. Almost a century earlier, we have Chief Justice
Fortescue's account of the French peasantry, a record per antiphrasin of the English. About
the great era of 1688, we have the sketch of contemporary English civilization by Chamberlayne.
So rare and distant are the glimpses which we obtain of ourselves at different periods.]

It is easy, therefore, to understand why, amongst the writers of any given nation, we are least
entitled to look for an account of the habits or separate institutions distinguishing that
nation: since the stimulation of difference least of all exists for those who never see that
difference broadly relieved in adverse habits or institutions. To such nation its own aristocracy,
like its own climate, seems a positive fact, neither good nor bad, and worthy of little notice,
as apparently open to little improvement. And yet to each nation its own aristocracy is often
the arbitrating cause, but always the exponent or index of its future political welfare. Laws
are important; administration of laws is important; to be Protestant or Popish is important;
and so of many other agencies: but, as was said by Harrington in his Oceana, there is something
in the original idea and in the executive composition of a gentry which cannot be created artificially,
and (if wanting) cannot be supplied by substitution. Upon the quality of an aristocracy in
critical periods, in those periods when the national stability is menaced by revolution, or
the national independence by aggression, depends the national salvation. Let us lay before
the reader an illustration.

It is our deliberate conviction, that, from the foundations of civil society, human annals
present no second case of infamy equal to that which is presented by the condition of Spain
and Portugal from the year 1807 up to our own immediate era. It is a case the more interesting,
because two opposite verdicts have been pronounced upon it by men of the greatest ability amongst
ourselves. Some, as the present and the late Laureate, have found in the Peninsular struggle
with Napoleon, the very perfection of popular grandeur; others, agreeing with ourselves, have
seen in this pretended struggle nothing but the last extravagance of thrasonic and impotent
national arrogance. Language more frantically inflated, and deeds more farcically abject, surely
were never before united. It seems therefore strange, that a difference, even thus far, should
exist between Englishmen standing upon the same facts, starting from the sane principles. But
perhaps, as regards Mr Wordsworth, he did not allow enough for the long series of noxious influences
under which Spain had suffered. And this, at any rate, is notorious--he spoke of the Spanish
people, the original stock (unmodified by courtly usages, or foreign sentiments, or city habits)
of the Spanish peasantry and petty rural proprietors. This class, as distinguished from the
aristocracy, was the class he relied on; and he agreed with us in looking upon the Spanish
aristocracy as traitors--that is, as recreants and apostates--from any and every cause meriting
the name of national. If he found a moral grandeur in Spain, it was amongst that poor forsaken
peasantry, incapable of political combination, who could not make a national party in the absence
of their natural leaders. Now, if we adopt the mild temperament of some Spanish writers, calling
this "a schism in the natural interests," how shocking that such a schism could have arisen
at so dreadful a crisis! That schism, which, as a fact, is urged, in the way of excuse, merely
as a possibility, is already itself the opprobrium for Spain never to be washed out. For in
Spain, what was the aristocracy? Let us not deceive ourselves, by limiting this term to the
feudal nobility or grandees; the aristocracy comprehended every man that would naturally have
become a commissioned officer in the army. Here, therefore, read the legend and superscription
of the national dishonour. The Spanish people found themselves without a gentry for leading
their armies. England possessed, and possesses a gentry, the noblest that the world has seen,
who are the natural leaders of her intrepid commonalty, alike in her fleets and in her armies.
But why? How and in what sense qualified? Not only by principle and by honour--that glorious
distinction which poor men can appreciate, even when less sternly summoned to its duties; not
only by courage as fiery and as passively enduring as the courage of the lower ranks, but by
a physical robustness superior to that of any other class taken separately; and, above all,
by a scale of accomplishments in education, which strengthen the claim to command, even amongst
that part of the soldiery least capable of appreciating such advantages. In France again, where
no proper aristocracy now exits, there is, however, a gentry, qualified for leading; the soldiers
have an entire reliance on the courage of their officers. But in Italy, in Spain, in Portugal,
at the period of Napoleon, the soldiers knew to a certainty that their officers could not be
depended on; and for a reason absolutely without remedy, viz. that in Spain, at least, society
is not so organized by means of the press locally diffused, and by social intercourse, as that
an officer's reputation could be instantaneously propagated (as with us) whithersoever he went.
There was then no atmosphere of public opinion, for sustaining public judgments and public
morals. The result was unparalleled; here for the first time was seen a nation, fourteen millions
strong, so absolutely palsied as to lie down and suffer itself to be walked over by a body
of foreigners, entering in the avowed character of robbers. Colonel Napier, it is true, has
contradicted himself with regard to the value of the guerillas; alternately ridiculing then
as an imbecile force, and yet accrediting them as neutralizers of regular armies, to an enormous
amount. But can a more deplorable record be needed of Spanish ignominy, than that a nation,
once the leader of Europe as to infantry and military skill, should, by mere default of an
intrepid gentry, be thrown upon the necessity of a brigand force? Equally abject was the state
of Portugal. Let any man read the French general Foy's account of the circumstances under which
Junot's van, separated by some days' march from the rest of the army, entered Lisbon in 1807.
The rural population of Portugal, in most provinces, is a fine athletic race; and foreigners
take a false estimate of this race, from the depraved mob of Lisbon. This capital, however,
at that time, contained 60,000 fighting men, a powerful fortress, and ships in the river. Yet
did Junot make his entry with 6000 of the poorest troops, in a physical sense, that Europe
could show. Foy admits, that the majority were poor starveling boys, who could scarcely hold
their muskets from cold and continual wet, hurried by forced marches, ill fed, desponding,
and almost ripe for the hospital. Vast crowds had assembled to see the entry. "What!" exclaimed
the Portuguese, "are these little drowned rats the élite of Napoleon's armies?" Inevitably,
the very basest of nations, would, on such an invitation to resistance, have risen that same
night, whilst the poor, childish, advanced guard was already beaten to their hands. The French
officers apprehended such an attempt, but nothing happened; the faint-hearted people threw
away this golden opportunity, never to be retrieved. And why? Because they had no gentry to
lead, to rally, or to counsel them. The populace in both countries, though miserably deteriorated
by the long defect of an aristocracy whom they could respect, were still sound at the heart;
they felt the whole sorrow of their own degradation; and that they would have fought, was soon
proved in the case of the Portuguese, when we lent them officers and training; as it was proved
also thirty years afterwards in the case of the Spaniards, when Don Carlos, in a time of general
peace, obtained good officers from every part of Europe. Each country was forced into redeeming
itself by the overflowing upon it of a foreign gentry. And yet, even at the moment of profoundest
degradation, such was the maniacal vanity still prevailing amongst the Spaniards, that at one
time the Supreme Junta forwarded the following proposal to the British Government:--Men they
had; their own independence of foreign aid, in that sense, they had always asserted; money
it was, and not armies, which they needed; and they now proposed an arrangement, by which the
Spanish armies, as so notoriously the heroes of Europe, should be rendered universally disposable
for the task of facing the French in the field, whilst the British (as confessedly unequal
to duties so stern) should be entrusted with the garrison duty of the fortresses. "Illâ se
jactet in aulâ Anglia;" and, since the help of the English navy (which really was good) would
be available as to the maritime fortresses, doubtless England might have a chance for justifying
the limited confidence reposed in her, when sheltered from the fiercer storms of war by the
indomitable lions of Ocana. It is superfluous to say, that the gratitude of Spain, at the close
of the war, was every thing that ought to have been expected from this moonstruck vanity at
its opening.

Such are the results for nations, when they betray to the whole world an aristocracy bankrupt
of honour, emasculated, and slothful. Spoliators so reckless as Napoleon, are not always at
hand for taking advantage of this domestic ruin; but it is impossible that a nation, absolutely
rich as Spain was in the midst of her relative poverty, can advertise itself for centuries
as a naked, defenceless waif, having neither leaders nor principles for organizing a resistance,
but that eventually she will hear of a customer for her national jewels. In reality, Spain
had been protected for 150 years, by the local interposition of France; had France not occupied
the antechamber to the Peninsula, making it impossible for any but a maritime power to attack
Spain in strength, Madrid would have echoed to the cannon of the spoiler, at least a century
before the bloody 3d of May 1808.[6] In the same way, Austria has furnished for centuries a
screen to the Italian Peninsula. Yet, in that case, the want of unity amongst so many subdivisions
that were independent states, might be pleaded as an excuse. Pitiable weakness there was in
both cases; and "to be weak is to be miserable;" but degradation by degradation, universal
abasement of the national energies, as an effect through wilful abasement as a cause; this
miserable spectacle has been exhibited in mellow maturity by no Christian nations but those
of Spain and Portugal. Both have degenerated into nations of poltrons, and from what ancestors?
From those who once headed the baptized in Europe, and founded empires in the other hemisphere.

    ------"Into what depth thou see'st,
    From what height fallen!"------

So that, if this gloomy shadow has crept over luminaries once so bright through the gradual
eclipse of their aristocracies, we need no proof more pathetic or terrific of the degree in
which great nations, with the whole burden of their honour and their primary interests, are
dependent, in the final extremity, upon the quality of their gentry--considered as their sole
natural leaders in battle.

[Footnote 6: To say the truth, during the Marlborough war of the Succession, and precisely
one hundred years before Murat's bloody occupation of Madrid, Spain presented the same infamous
spectacle as under Napoleon; armies of strangers, English, French, Germans, marching, and counter-marching
incessantly, peremptorily disposing of the Spanish crown, alternately placing rival kings upon
the throne, and all the while no more deferring to a Spanish will than to the yelping of village
curs.]

With this previous indication of the unrivalled responsibility pressing upon aristocracies,
it is our purpose to dwell a little upon those accidents of advantage arising out of constitution,
and those differences of quality, experimentally made known to us in a thousand trials, which
sum and express the peculiarities of the British nobility and gentry.

This first point, as to the constitution of our aristocracy, the basis on which it reposes
cannot be better introduced than by a literary fact open to all the world, but never yet read
in its true meaning. When it became advisable, after the violent death of Charles I., that
some public exposure should be applied to the past disputes between the Throne and the Parliament,
and some account given of the royal policy--the first question arose naturally upon the selection
of a writer having the proper qualifications. Two of these qualifications were found in a French
scholar of distinction, Monsieur de Saumaise, better known by his Latinized name of Salmasius.
He was undoubtedly a scholar of prodigious attainments: and the first or unconditional qualification
for such a task, of great ability and extensive information, could not be denied to him. Here
was a subject fitted to fix attention upon any writer, and on the other hand, a writer brilliantly
qualified to fix attention upon any subject. Unhappily, a third indispensable condition, viz.--that
the writer should personally know England--was entirely overlooked. Salmasius had a fluent
command of Latin; and, supported by a learned theme, he generally left a dazzling impression
even upon those who hated his person, or disputed his conclusions. But, coming into collision
with politics, personal as well as speculative, and with questions of real life, fitted to
call for other accomplishments than those of a recluse scholar, it seemed probable that this
great classical critic would be found pedantic and scurrilous; and upon the affairs of so peculiar
a people, it was certain that he would be found ignorant and self-contradicting. Even Englishmen
have seldom thoroughly understood the feud of the great Parliamentary war: the very word "rebellion,"
so often applied to it, involves the error of presuming that in its principles the war was
unconstitutional, and in its objects was finally defeated. Whereas the subsequent Revolution
of 1688-9 was but a resumption of the very same principles and indispensable purposes under
more advantageous auspices--was but a re-affirmation of the principle votes from 1642 to 1645.
The one capital point of a responsibility, virtual though not formal, lodged in the crown,
and secured through a responsible ministry--this great principle, which Charles I. once conceded
in the case of Lord Strafford, but ever afterwards to his dying day repented and abjured, was
at length for ever established, and almost by acclamation. In a case so novel, however, to
Englishmen, and as yet so unsettled, could it be looked for that a foreigner should master
new political principles, to which on the Continent there was nothing analogous?[7] This, it
may be alleged, was not looked for. Salmasius was in the hands of a party; and his prejudices,
it may be thought, were confluent with theirs. Not altogether. The most enlightened of the
English royalists were sensible of some call for a balance to the regal authority; it cannot
be pretended that Hyde, Ormond, or Southampton, wished their king to be the fierce "Io el rey"
(so pointedly disowning his council) of Castile, or the "L'état? C'est moi" of France, some
few years later. Even for a royalist, it was requisite in England to profess some popular doctrines;
and thus far Salmasius fell below his clients. But his capital disqualification lay in his
defect of familiarity with the English people, habits, laws, and history.

[Footnote 7: It may be thought, indeed, that as a resident in Holland, Salmasius should have
had a glimpse of the new truth; and certainly it is singular that he did not perceive the rebound,
upon his Dutch protectors, of many amongst his own virulent passages against the English; unless
he fancied some special privilege for Dutch rebellion. But in fact he did so. There was a notion
in great currency at the time--that any state whatever was eternally pledged and committed
to the original holdings of its settlement. Whatever had been its earliest tenure, that tenure
continued to be binding through all ages. An elective kingdom had thus some indirect means
for controlling its sovereign. A republic was a nuisance, perhaps, but protected by prescription.
And in this way even France had authorized means, through old usages of courts or incorporations,
for limiting the royal authority as to certain known trifles. With respect to the Netherlands,
the king of Spain had never held absolute power in those provinces. All these were privileged
cases for resistance. But England was held to be a regal despotism.]

The English aristocracy furnished a question for drawing all these large varieties of ignorance
to a focus. In coming upon the ground of English institutions, Salmasius necessarily began
"verba nostra conari," and became the garrulous parrot that Milton represents him. Yet, strange
it is, that the capital blunder which he makes upon this subject, was not perceived by Milton.
And this reciprocal misunderstanding equally arose in the pre-occupation of their minds by
the separate principles on which, for each side, were founded their separate aristocracies.
The confusion between the parties arose in connexion with the House of Commons. What was the
House of Commons? Salmasius saw that it was contrasted with the House of Lords. But then, again,
what were the Lords? The explanation given to him was, that they were the "noblesse" of the
land. That he could understand; and, of course, if the other house were antithetically opposed
to the Lords, it followed that the House of Commons was not composed of noblesse. But, on the
Continent, this was equivalent to saying, that the Commons were roturiers, bourgeois--in fact,
mechanic persons, of obscure families, occupied in the lowest employments of life. Accordingly
Salmasius wrote his whole work under the most serene conviction that the English House of Commons
was tantamount to a Norwegian Storthing, viz. a gathering from the illiterate and labouring
part of the nation. This blunder was committed in perfect sincerity. And there was no opening
for light; because a continual sanction was given to this error by the aristocratic scorn which
the cavaliers of ancient descent habitually applied to the prevailing party of the Roundheads;
which may be seen to this hour in all the pasquinades upon Cromwell, though really in his own
neighbourhood a "gentleman of worship." But for Salmasius it was a sufficient bar to any doubt
arising, that if the House of Commons were not nobles, then were they not gentlemen--since
to be a gentleman and to be a titled man or noble, on the Continent, were convertible terms.
He himself was a man of titular rank, deriving his title from the territory of Saumaise; and
in this needy scholar, behold a nobleman of France! Milton, on the other hand, quite incapable
of suspecting that Salmasius conceived himself to stand on a higher level than an English senator
of the Commons, and never having his attention drawn to the chasm which universally divides
foreign from English nobility, naturally interpreted all the invectives of Salmasius against
the Lower House as directed against their principles and their conduct. Thus arose an error,
which its very enormity has hitherto screened from observation.

What, then, is this chasm dividing our nobility from that upon the Continent? Latterly that
point has begun to force itself upon the attention of the English themselves, as travellers
by wholesale on the Continent. The sagacious observers amongst them could not avoid to remark,
that not unfrequently families were classed by scores amongst the nobility, who, in England,
would not have been held to rank with the gentry. Next, it must have struck them that, merely
by their numbers, these continental orders of nobility could never have been designed for any
thing higher than so many orders of gentry. Finally, upon discovering that there was no such
word or idea as that of gentry, expressing a secondary class distinct from a nobility, it flashed
upon them that our important body of a landed gentry, bearing no titular honours of any kind,
was inexpressible by any French, German, or Italian word; that upon the whole, and allowing
for incommunicable differences, this order of gentry was represented on the Continent by the
great mass of the "basse noblesse;" that our own great feudal nobility would be described on
the Continent as a "haute noblesse;" and that amongst all these perplexities, it was inevitable
for an Englishman to misunderstand and to be misunderstood. For, if he described another Englishman
as not being a nobleman, invariably the foreigner would presume it to be meant that he was
not a gentleman--not of the privileged class--in fact, that he was a plebeian or roturier,
though very possibly a man every way meritorious by talents or public services. Whereas, on
the contrary, we English know that a man of most ancient descent and ample estates, one, in
the highest sense, a man of birth and family, may choose, on a principle of pride, (and not
unfrequently has chosen,) obstinately to decline entering the order of nobility. Take, in short,
the well-known story of Sir Edward Seymour, as first reported in Burnet's Own Times; to every
foreigner this story is absolutely unintelligible. Sir Edward, at the Revolution, was one,
in the vast crowd of country gentlemen presented to the Prince of Orange, (not yet raised to
the throne.) The prince, who never had the dimmest conception of English habits or institutions,
thought to compliment Sir Edward by showing himself aware of that gentleman's near relationship
to a ducal house. "I believe, Sir Edward," said the prince, "that you are of the Duke of Somerset's
family?" But Sir Edward, who was the haughtiest of the human race, speedily put an extinguisher
on the prince's courtesy by replying, in a roar, "No, your highness: my lord duke is of mine."
This was true: Sir Edward, the commoner, was of that branch which headed the illustrious house
of Seymour; and the Duke of Somerset, at that era, was a cadet of this house. But to all foreigners
alike, from every part of the Continent, this story is unfathomable. How a junior branch should
be ennobled, the elder branch remaining not ennobled, that by itself seems mysterious; but
how the unennobled branch should, in some sense peculiarly English, bear itself loftily as
the depository of a higher consideration (though not of a higher rank) than the duke's branch,
this is a mere stone of offence to the continental mind. So, again, there is a notion current
upon the Continent, that in England titular honours are put up to sale, as once they really
were, by Charles I. in his distresses, when an earldom was sold for L.6000; and so pro rata
for one step higher or lower. Meantime, we all know in England how entirely false this is;
and, on the other hand, we know also, and cannot but smile at the continental blindness to
its own infirmity, that the mercenary imputation which recoils from ourselves, has, for centuries,
settled upon France, Germany, and other powers. More than one hundred and thirty thousand French
"nobles," at the epoch of the Revolution, how did most of them come by their titles? Simply
by buying them in a regular market or bazar, appointed for such traffic. Did Mr St----, a respectable
tailor, need baronial honours? He did not think of applying to any English minister, though
he was then actually resident in London; he addressed his litanies to the chancery of Austria.
Did Mr ----, the dentist, or Mr R----, the banker, sigh for aristocratic honours? Both crossed
the Channel, and marketed in the shambles of France and Germany.

Meantime the confusion, which is inveterate upon this subject, arose out of the incompatible
grounds upon which the aristocracies of England and the Continent had formed themselves. For
the continental there seemed to exist no exclusive privilege, and yet there was one. For the
English there existed practically a real privilege, and yet in law there was none. On the Continent,
no titled order had ever arisen without peculiar immunities and powers, extending oftentimes
to criminal jurisdictions; but yet, by that same error which has so often vitiated a paper
currency, the whole order, in spite of its unfair privileges, was generally depreciated. This
has been the capital blunder of France at all times. Her old aristocracy was so numerous, that
every provincial town was inundated with "comptes," &c.; and no villager even turned to look
on hearing another addressed by a title. The other day we saw a return from the Legion of Honour:
"Such in these moments, as in all the past," France, it appeared, had already indorsed upon
this suspicious roll not fewer than forty-nine thousand six hundred and odd beneficiaries.
Let the reader think of forty-nine thousand six hundred Knights of the Bath turned loose upon
London. Now ex adverso England must have some virtual and operative privilege for her nobility,
or else how comes it, that in any one of our largest provincial towns--towns so populous as
to have but four rivals on the Continent--a stranger saluted seriously by the title of "my
lord," will very soon have a mob at his heels? Is it that the English nobility can dispense
with immunities from taxation, with legal supremacies, and with the sword of justice; in short,
with all artificial privileges, having these two authentic privileges from nature--stern limitation
of their numbers, and a prodigious share in the most durable of the national property? Vainly
does the continental noble flourish against such omnipotent charters the rusty keys of his
dungeon, or the sculptured image of his family gallows. Power beyond the law is not nobility,
is not antiquity. Tax-gatherers, from the two last centuries, have been the founders of most
titled houses in France; and the prestige of antiquity is, therefore, but rarely present. But
were it otherwise, and that a "noblesse" could plead one uniform descent from crusaders, still,
if they were a hundred thousand strong--and, secondly, had no property--and, thirdly, comprehended
in their lists a mere gentry, having generally no pretensions at all to ancient or illustrious
descent, they would be--nothing. And exactly on that basis reposes the difference between the
Continent and England. Eternally the ridiculous pretence of being "noble" by family, seems
to claim for obscure foreigners some sort of advantage over the plain untitled Englishman;
but eternally the travelled Englishman recollects, that, so far as this equivocal "nobility"
had been really fenced with privileges, those have been long in a course of superannuation;
whilst the counter-vailing advantages for his own native aristocracy are precisely those which
time or political revolutions never can superannuate.

Thus far as to the constitution of the British nobility and those broad popular distinctions
which determine for each nobility its effectual powers. The next point is, to exhibit the operation
of these differential powers in the condition of manners which they produce. But, as a transitional
stage lying between the two here described--between the tenure of our aristocracy as a casual
principle, and the popular working of our aristocracy as an effect--we will interpose a slight
notice of the habits peculiar to England by which this effect is partly sustained.

One marked characteristic of the English nobility is found in the popular education of their
sons. Amongst the great feudal aristocracies of Spain or of Austria, it was impossible that
the heirs of splendid properties should be reared when boys in national institutions. In general,
there are no national institutions, of ancient and royal foundation, dedicated to education
in either land. Almost of necessity, the young graf or fuerst, (earl or prince,) conde or duca,
is committed to the charge of a private tutor, usually a monk. The habits of continental universities
have always been riotous and plebeian; the mode of paying the professors, who answer to the
college tutors of Oxford and Cambridge, has always been degrading--equally degrading to them
and to literature; whilst, in relation to all academic authority, such modes of payment were
ruinous, by creating a systematic dependence of the teacher upon the pupil. To this account
may be added, that in all countries, where great elementary schools are wanting, the universities
are improperly used as their substitutes. Consequently these pupils are too often boys, and
not young men, in age; whilst in habits, not belonging to the aristocracy, they are generally
gross, unpolished, and illiberal. The great bulk are meant for the professions of the land;
and hence, from an early period, the education has been too ecclesiastical in its cast. Even
at this day, it is too strictly professional. The landed aristocracy resort to such institutions
in no healthy proportions; and the reason lies in their too exclusive dedication to the military
service. It is true that, in the rude concussion given to all Germany and Spain by the French
revolutionary aggressions, many changes have occurred. In particular, for North Germany, viz.
Prussia, Russian Poland, and Saxony, such a new and vast body has arisen of civil functionaries,
that a new name and classification for this order has been found necessary amongst British
travellers and German economists. But this change has not commensurately affected the German
universities. The military character still overshadows the professional. The law is in no esteem,
and leads to no political consideration. The church is in the same degradation. The German
pastor is too essentially humble in his social condition to present any resistance to feudal
or military arrogance. A German clergyman is not, in that emphatic sense which makes itself
felt amongst ourselves, a gentleman. The rural pastor of Germany is too often, in effectual
weight of character, little more than the "Amen" clerk of our English establishment. If he
is treated courteously, as amongst very elevated persons he is, this concession he owes to
their high bred refinement, and not to any dignity which clothes himself. There we speak of
the reformed churches, whether Calvinist, Lutheran, or the new syncratistic church, manufactured
by the present government of Prussia. But in Popish countries, the same tendency is seen on
a larger scale: the whole ecclesiastical body, parochial or monastic, retires from the contests
of life; and fails, therefore, to contribute any part of the civil resistance needed for making
head against the military profession. On the other hand, in England, through the great schools
of Eton, Harrow, &c., children even of ducal families are introduced to public life, and to
popular sympathies, through the discipline of what may be called miniature republics. No country
on earth, it is rightly observed by foreigners, shows so much of aristocratic feeling as England.
It cannot, therefore, be denied--that a British duke or earl at Eton, and more especially in
his latter stages when approaching the period of his majority, is the object of much deference.
Entering upon the time when practically he becomes sui juris, he has far too much power and
influence to be treated with levity. But it is equally true, that a spirit of republican justice
regulates his childish intercourse with his fellow alumni: he fights battles on equal terms
with any of them, when he gives or receives offence. He plays at cricket, he sails or rows
his boat, according to known general regulations. True, that his private tutor more often withdraws
a patrician boy from the public sports: but, so long as he is a party of them, he neither is,
nor, from the nature of such amusements, could be indulged with any special immunities. The
Condes and Ducas of Spain, meantime, have been uniformly reared at home: for this we have the
authority of Spanish economists, as also of many travellers. The auspicious conductor of the
young grandee's education are usually his mother's confessor and his mother's waiting-women.
Thence comes the possibility that a Spanish prince should have degraded himself in the eyes
of Europe as a sempster and embroiderer of petticoats. Accordingly, the highest order of the
Spanish nobility is said to be physically below the standard of their countrymen, in a degree
too apparent to escape general notice; whilst in the same relations our own nobility has been
generally pronounced the finest animal race amongst us.

Another great feature in the system of our English training, is the severe separation of children
from servants. Many are the families of mere English gentry, totally removed from the nobility,
who never permit their children to enter the servants' hall nor the kitchen. And the probable
remark upon so rigorous a separation, which an inconsiderate person will make, that it is founded
upon aristocratic arrogance, happens to be in the very teeth of the truth. We shall content
ourselves with saying, that the comfort as well as benefit of both parties were promoted by
such an arrangement; whilst, so far from arguing hauteur, it was the high civil condition of
the English servant, which, by forcing respect from his master, first widened the interval
between the two ranks, and founded a wholesome repulsion between them. In our own times, we
have read descriptions of West India planters admitting the infant children of their slaves
to play and sprawl about their saloons: but now, since the slave has acquired the station of
a free man, and (from the fact of not having won this station meritoriously, but passively
received it as a boon) is too generally disposed to use it in a spirit of defiance, does any
man expect such scenes for the future? Through the prevalence of habit, old cases of that nature
may happen to survive locally: but in the coming generation, every vestige of these indulgent
relations will have disappeared in the gloomy atmosphere of jealous independence. That infant,
who had been treated with exemplary kindness as a creature entirely at the mercy of his master,
and the living monument of his forbearance, will be thrown sternly upon his legal rights when
he has the power of enforcing those rights in so many instances against his patron. This case,
from its abruptness, involves unamiable features: but the English case had developed itself
too gradually and naturally to be otherwise than purely dignified for both parties. In the
age of Beaumont and Fletcher, (say 1610-1635,) gentlemen kicked and caned their servants: the
power to do so, was a privilege growing out of the awful distance attached to rank: and in
Ireland, at the opening of the present century, such a privilege was still matter of prescriptive
usage, and too frequently furnished the matter for a menace. But the stealthy growth of civilization
and of civil liberty in England, moved onwards so surely, under the stimulation of manufacturing
industry, (making menial service a secondary object for the poor,) that before 1750, a gentleman,
forgetting himself so far as to strike a servant, would have been recalled to better thoughts
by an action for assault. On the Continent, for the very reason that no such rights had been
matured for servants, it was possible to treat them with much more indulgence: because the
relations between the two parties were less honourable, allowing to the servant nothing in
the way of absolute right; for that very reason, it was possible to treat him as a child who
founds his power upon his weakness. In fact, the whole philosophy on this subject will be found
practically embodied in the household economy of Rome about the time of Hannibal, as unfolded
by Plautus. The relations of master and servant are there exhibited in a state of absolute
pessimism: any thing worse, it is beyond the wit of men to imagine. Respect or deference on
the part of the slave towards his master, there is none: contempt more maliciously expressed
for his master's understanding, familiarity more insolent, it is difficult to imagine. This
was in part a tendency derived from republican institutions: but in part also it rests upon
the vicious independence in the master of all authority founded upon moral forces. Instant
physical coercion, the power of cross, gallows, pistrinum, and the domestic scourge--these
were the forces which made the Roman master careless of verbal disrespect, indifferent to censure,
from them whose opinions were as impotent as those of an infant. The slave, again, on his side,
is described as so thoroughly degraded, that he makes the disfiguration of his own person by
the knout, the cancellation of his back by stripes and scars--a subject of continual merriment.
Between two parties thus incapacitated by law and usage for manly intercourse, the result was
exactly such by consummation as on many parts of the Continent it still is by tendency. The
master welcomed from his slave that spirit of familiar impertinence which stirred the dull
surface of domestic life, whilst, at any moment, a kick or a frown could silence the petty
battery when it was beginning to be offensive. Without a drawback, therefore, to apprehend
where excesses too personal or stinging could be repressed as certainly as the trespasses of
a hound, the Plautine master drew from his servant, without anxiety, the comic services which,
in the middle ages, were drawn from the professional "fool." This original vice in the constitution
of society, though greatly mitigated, in the course of two centuries from the era of Plautus,
by the progress of intellectual luxury, was one main fountain of that coarseness which, in
every age, deformed the social intercourse of Romans; and, especially, it was the fountain
of that odious scurrility and tongue-license which defeated the majestic impression else sure
to have waited on the grand position of the senate. Cicero himself was as great a ruffian in
his three functions of oratory, viz. at the bar, in the popular assemblies, and in the senate--he
was as foul a libeller--as malignant--and as plebeian in his choice of topics--as any "verna"
in Rome when sparring with another "verna." This scandal of Roman society was not, undoubtedly,
a pure product, from the vernile scurrility of which we hear so much in Roman writers--other
causes conspired; but certainly the fluency which men of rank exhibited in this popular accomplishment
of Billingsgate had been at all times sustained by the models of this kind resounding for ever
in the streets of Rome, and in the purlieus of great mansions. Mr Coleridge, who had seen nothing
but superior amiableness in the familiar sort of friendship existing between a French gentleman
and his servant, where, in fact, it had survived as a relic from old political degradations,
might consistently proclaim in rapture, when writing to a lady upon the Philosophic Dialogues
of Cicero, "What perfect gentlemen were[8] these old Romans!" He who suffers a single feature
of amiableness to screen the general misconstruction of social relations, may easily find a
spirit of chivalrous courtesy in what, after all, was only a self-protecting meanness, applied
to one special case of private intercourse under a brutalizing system applied to all other
intercourse between men of public distinction. It is certain that the prevailing relations
upon the Continent between master and servant, did, before the French Revolution, and do still,
express a vicious structure of society; they have repeated, in other forms, the Roman type
of civilisation; whilst we, with a sterner exterior, have been the first to stamp respectability
upon menial and mechanic labour.

[Footnote 8: And, in reality, this impression, as from some high-bred courtesy and self-restraint,
is likely enough to arise at first in every man's mind. But the true ground of the amiable
features was laid for the Roman in the counter-force of exquisite brutality. Where the style
of public intercourse had been so deformed by ruffianism, in private intercourse it happened,
both as a natural consequence, and as a difference sought after by prudence, that the tendencies
to such rough play incident to all polemic conversation (as in the De Oratore) should be precluded
by a marked extremity of refined pleasure. Hence indeed it is, that compliments, and something
like mutual adulation, prevail so much in the imaginary colloquies of Roman statesmen. The
personal flatteries interchanged in the De Oratore, De Legibus, &c., of Cicero, are often so
elegantly turned, and introduced so artfully, that they read very much like the high bred compliments
ascribed to Louis XIV., in his intercourse with eminent public officers. These have generally
a regal air of loftiness about them, and prove the possibility of genius attaching even to
the art of paying compliments. But else, in reviewing the spirit of traffic, which appears
in the reciprocal flatteries passing between Crassus, Antony, Cotta, &c., too often a sullen
suspicion crosses the mind of a politic sycophancy, adopted on both sides as a defensive armour.]

Perhaps, however, the one capital force, operating for good upon the British aristocracy, is--the
paramount reference of all accomplishments, of ambition through all its modes, and of party
connexions, to the public service. This, again, which constitutes a fourth head amongst the
characteristics of English society, may be viewed as both cause and effect with reference to
our civil institutions. Here we regard it as a cause. It is a startling assertion to make,
but we have good reason to think it true, that, in the last great war with Jacobinism, stretching
through very nearly one whole quarter of a century, beyond all doubt the nobility was that
order amongst us who shed their blood in the largest proportion for the commonwealth. Let not
the reader believe that for a moment we are capable of undervaluing the pretensions of any
class, whether high or low. All furnished martyrs to that noblest of causes. And it is not
possible that this should be otherwise; because amongst us society is so exquisitely fused,
so delicate are the nuances by which our ranks play out and in to each other, that no man can
imagine the possibility of an arrest being communicated at any point to the free circulation
of any one national feeling whatsoever. Great chasms must exist between social ranks, where
it is possible for a sentiment of nationality to be suddenly frozen up as it approaches one
particular class; as a corollary from which doctrine, we have always treated with derision
the scurrilous notion that our rural body of landowners, our country squires, could, by possibility,
differ essentially from the rest of us. Bred amongst us, educated amongst us, intermarrying
with us indiscriminately, how by any means apparent to common sense should it be possible for
them to maintain an inheritance of separate ignorance, separate prejudices, or separate purposes,
such as interested manufacturers and trivial satirists assume? On the same principle, it is
not possible that, in questions of elementary patriotism, any palsy should check the electric
movement of the national feelings through every organ of its social life--except only in the
one case where its organization is imperfect. Let there be a haughty nobility, void of popular
sympathies, such as the haute noblesse of Russia or Hungary is sometimes said to be, and it
will be possible that jealousy on behalf of privileges should operate so noxiously as to place
such a body in opposition to the people for the sake of what it holds separately, rather than
in sympathy with the people for the sake of what both hold in common. With us, this is otherwise;
the very highest and most feudal amongst our nobles are associated by common rights, interests,
and subjection to the laws, with the general body of the people. Make an exception for the
right of demanding an audience from the sovereign, for the right of entrée at St James's, for
the right of driving through the Horse Guards, or for Lord Kinsale's right of wearing his hat
in the royal presence--reckon off the petty discount for privileges so purely ceremonial, and
absolute nothing remains to distinguish the nobility. For as to the practice of entails, the
legal benefit of primogeniture, &c., these have no more essential connexion with the nobility,
than the possession of land or manorial rights. They are privileges attached to a known situation,
which is open equally to every man not disqualified as an alien. Consequently, we infer that,
the fusion and continuity of our ranks being perfect, it is not possible to suppose, with respect
to a great patriotic interest, any abrupt pause in the fluent circulation of our national sympathies.
We, therefore, cannot be supposed to arrogate for the nobility any separate privilege of patriotism.
But still we venture to affirm, that, if the total numbers of our nobility and their nearest
connexions were summed; and if from that sum were subtracted all officers, being brothers,
sons, nephews, of British peers, who laid down their lives, or suffered incurable wounds in
the naval or military service of their country, the proportion will be found greater than that
upon the aggregate remainder belonging to the rest of the nation. Life is the same blessing
for all ranks alike. But certainly, though for all it is intrinsically the same priceless jewel,
there is in the setting of this jewel something more radiantly brilliant to him who inherits
a place amongst the British nobility, than to him whose prospects have been clouded originally
by the doubts and fears of poverty. And, at all events, the libation of blood in the course
of the last war was, we must repeat, on the part of the high aristocracy, disproportionately large.

In that proportion are those men unprincipled who speak of the English nobility as an indolent
class--detached from public employments, and taking neither share nor interest in the public
service. Such representations, where they are not deliberate falsehoods, point to a fact which
is not uncommon; from the limited number of our nobility, and consequently the rare opportunities
for really studying their habits, it is easy to see that in sketches of this order, (whether
libellous amongst mob-orators, or serious in novels,) the pretended portrait has been founded
on a vague romantic abstraction of what may be supposed peculiar to the condition of a patrician
order under all political circumstances. Haughtiness, exclusiveness, indolence, and luxury,
compose the romantic type which the delineator figures to his mind; and at length it becomes
evident to any man, who has an experimental knowledge of this order, that probably the ancient
Persian satraps, or the omrahs of Hindostan, have much more truly been operatively present
to the describers than any thing ancient or modern amongst the realities of England. A candid
person, who wishes to estimate the true, and not the imaginary nobles of England, will perceive
one fact through the public journals, viz. that no class takes a more active share in that
sort of the public business which naturally commends itself to their support. At least one-half
of the deliberative meetings connected with the innumerable charities of London, very many
of the public dinners by which such charities are promoted or commemorated, obtain the benevolent
aid of noblemen as chairmen and presidents. Provincial assemblies for the same purposes, and,
still more frequently, assemblies growing out of the endless political questions incident to
a nation in our circumstances, receive the same influential countenance. These labours, by
no means slight, added to the evening Parliamentary attendance through half the year, and the
morning attendance on Parliamentary committees, together with the magisterial duties of many
lords-lieutenant, sufficiently attest that in this point of public duties, (exercised without
fee or compensation,) our own nobility is the only one in Europe having almost any connexion
at all with the national service, except through the army. Some of this small body are pretty
constantly attached to the cabinet; others act as ambassadors, as under-secretaries, or as
colonial governors. And so far are they from wishing, apparently, to limit the field for their
own exertions, that the late Dukes of Manchester and Richmond spontaneously extended it, by
giving the countenances of their high stations to the governments of Canada, and even of Jamaica.
A marquis of ancient family has lately accepted the government of Madras; and gradually, as
our splendid colonies expand their proportions, it is probable that many more of them will
benefit at intervals, (in their charities and public works,) from the vast revenues of our
leading nobles acting as their governors. Add to these the many cases of junior nobles who
sit in the House of Commons; of those who keep alive the public spirit of great provinces by
standing costly contested elections; of those professionally pursuing the career of arms in
the naval or land service; and then, collating all this activity with the very limited extent
of our peerage taken even with their families, not the very bigotry of democracy will deny
that the characteristic energy of our nation is faithfully reflected from its highest order.

