       *       *       *       *       *

PICK-ME-UP PEPPER sets a whole household on the sneeze.

       *       *       *       *       *

PICK-ME-UP PEPPER establishes fever in the Infant School.

       *       *       *       *       *

PICK-ME-UP PEPPER paralyses the Hippopotamus.

       *       *       *       *       *

PICK-ME-UP PEPPER drives a Chief Justice off the Bench.

       *       *       *       *       *

PICK-ME-UP PEPPER irritates the Solicitor.

       *       *       *       *       *

PICK-ME-UP PEPPER maddens the dentist.

       *       *       *       *       *

PICK-ME-UP PEPPER sets the Archbishop dancing a break-down.

       *       *       *       *       *

PICK-ME-UP PEPPER hurries the Philosopher into a Lunatic Asylum.

       *       *       *       *       *

PICK-ME-UP PEPPER staggers the rising Politician.

       *       *       *       *       *

PICK-ME-UP PEPPER causes the resignation of the Prime Minister.

       *       *       *       *       *

PICK-ME-UP PEPPER makes a four-wheeler cab-horse win the Derby.

       *       *       *       *       *

PICK-ME-UP PEPPER is the sheet-anchor for Practical Jokers.

       *       *       *       *       *

PICK-ME-UP PEPPER may be safely relied on by Master TOMMY.

       *       *       *       *       *

PICK-ME-UP PEPPER, put in the baby's bottle, will divert the Nursery.

       *       *       *       *       *

PICK-ME-UP PEPPER, introduced into the Soup at a dinner-party, will lead to a serious riot
in the dining-room.

       *       *       *       *       *

PICK-ME-UP PEPPER, administered in a sandwich, will choke an Uncle.

       *       *       *       *       *

PICK-ME-UP PEPPER is the general disorganiser of every Household.

       *       *       *       *       *

PICK-ME-UP PEPPER.--A Pinch will thoroughly banish sleep for a whole fortnight.

       *       *       *       *       *

PICK-ME-UP PEPPER.--"An Octogenarian Consumer" writes:--"I was in a comatose condition for
twenty years, when I came across your Pepper. I had scarcely tried it ere I bounded up from
my arm-chair, and have danced a continual fandango ever since. I carry it loose in all my pockets,
and scatter it on all my friends whenever I meet them. This has got me kicked out of all their
houses in turn; but I do not in the least mind. I'm as merry and as mad as a March hare--and
your Pepper has done it."

       *       *       *       *       *

PICK-ME-UP PEPPER.--The Proprietors beg to inform their Friends and Patrons that they can supply
this highly combustible and explosive compound in felt safety cases, carefully packed at their
bomb-proof establishment in Barking Marshes, at the usual retail prices, viz., 1s. 1-1/2d.,
2s. 9d., 11s., 21s., and 31s. 6d., &c, &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

SHADOWS FROM MISTLETOE AND HOLLY.

Dear Mr. Punch,--I venture to address you on a subject that I feel sure will enlist your kind
attention and sympathy. How am I to get through Yule Tide? Ought I to give up the dispatch
of "cards," or ought I to send them to all my relatives, friends, and acquaintances? If I drop
the custom, people who like me will think I am outting them, and persons with whom I am less
popular will imagine that economy, not to say meanness, is the cause of my ceasing to trouble
the Post Office. Suppose that I "hang the expense," and do send the cards. Well, I am in this
position; it is a matter of the greatest difficulty to get a suitable greeting to all those
who receive my annual benediction. If I have "Wishing you and yours every happiness," with
my appended name and address lithographed, the greeting seems cold, and even inappropriate,
if addressed to, say, a favourite Maiden Aunt; and unduly familiar if forwarded to the acquaintance
I saw for the first time in my life the day before yesterday. Then if I trust to the ordinary
Christmas Cards of commerce, I am often at a loss to select an appropriate recipient for a
nestful of owls, or the picture of a Clown touching up an elderly gentleman of highly respectable
appearance with a red-hot poker! If I get a representation of flowers, the chances are ten
to one that the accompanying lines are of a compromising character. It is obviously cruel to
send to a recently-widowed Uncle some verses about "Darby and Joan," and my Mother-in-law is
not likely to feel complimented if I forward to her a poetically expressed suggestion that
there is no pleasanter place than her own home--away, of course, from her Son-in-law! And yet
these are the problems that meet the would-be Yule Tide card distributer at every turn! I remain,
my dear Mr. Punch, yours sincerely,

ONE WHO WISHES TO AVOID A ROW.

P.S.--If this arrives late, thank the cards that have overtaxed the postal arrangements.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE UNITED SERVICE DIARY FOR 1891.

January to March.--Soldiers on leave. Sailors at sea. Civil Servants reading the morning paper.

April to June.--Soldiers at play. Sailors in harbour. Civil Servants reading the morning paper.

July to September.--Soldiers at sea (autumn manoeuvres). Sailors at play (ditto). Civil Servants
away (ditto).

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

IN THE LATEST STYLE.

(BY OUR INTREPID INTERVIEWER.)

Feeling that your readers would be interested in learning Mr. CHOSE's own view of the unpleasant
affair, I called upon the distinguished Arctic Explorer just as he was sitting down to breakfast.

"Now, Mr. CHOSE, is it really true," I asked, "that you stole the umbrellas?"

The face of the warrior flushed angrily, for a moment, and then regaining his composure, he
replied that he could not see the point of possessing himself of articles that would be absolutely
valueless in those extremely northern latitudes.

"That is not the question," I persisted. "I am sure you will forgive me, when you remember
that I speak in the name of the Public; but what I want, and what they want to know is, Did
you steal the umbrellas? Now, Mr. CHOSE, you can surely answer Yes or No."

"I don't see what either you or they have to do with it," replied the Arctic Explorer, cutting
off the top of a boiled egg, "but as a matter of fact, I had nothing whatever to do with any
of the luggage of the expedition. So, if it is said, that I walked about with a shower-protector
that was not my own, you can value the story for what it is worth. Why, on the very face of
it, the report is ridiculous!"

"Exactly," I agreed, "but, then, the world is uncharitable. However, Mr. CHOSE, perhaps you
can tell me if it is true that your friend and colleague, Mr. BLANK, converted an aged Esquimaux
into what he termed Iced Greenlander?"

'I have heard the story, certainly; but cannot say whether it is true or not. When the incident
is alleged to have happened, I was in another part of the country, having been sent there to
change novels at the local circulating library."

"But would you say it was probable?"

"Distinctly not. BLANK was a noble-hearted, chivalrous, merry, gladsome, gallant young fellow.
He was the soul of honour. Why," he added, with deep emotion, "I have left as much as fourpence
in coppers on a mantel-piece alone with him, and on my return nave found every halfpenny of
the money untouched!"

"Then do you not think he pushed the old man into the sausage-machine?"

"If he did, it must have been either accidentally, or to win a wager, or perhaps as practical
joke. That he would do anything open to censure at the hands of the severest moralist, is absolutely
incredible. Why, he is a Loamshire man!"

"So I have heard; and, now, Mr. CHOSE, as I see that you have finished your breakfast, I will
put to you a purely personal question. Is it true that you poisoned your grandmother, drowned
your uncle, stifled your niece, and hanged your brother-in-law?"

The Arctic Explorer pulled angrily at his moustache, and said something about the reports to
which I referred being exaggerated.

"And may I take it that you have never been in gaol for picking pockets? And when it is said
that you were turned out of a Club for cheating at cards--"

But at this point I was assisted to take my leave with so much abruptness, that I was forced
to leave my last question but partially formulated. On finding myself once more in the street,
I noticed that I was reclining in the gutter, bare-headed. A little later, however, my hat
was thrown after me.

       *       *       *       *       *

PICTORIAL NOTE TO HAMLET.

"O that this too too solid flesh would melt!"

Note.--Shakespeare was the originator of the aesthetic expression "Too, too."

       *       *       *       *       *

POLITICS UP TO DATE.

(SPECIMEN LEADER FROM AN IRISH PAPER IN A CHRONIC STATE OF REVOLUTION.)

WEDNESDAY, 9 A.M.--We appear this morning awaiting the future with confidence and hope. So
far, we have been able to conduct this journal on patriotic lines. We have denounced the Leader
of the Party as the enemy of his country, and have applauded his opponents as the saviours
of society. But we cannot conceal from ourselves that the time may arrive when this policy
may be reversed. The hour may come--

10 A.M.--It has! We have much pleasure in informing our readers that, after a vigorous fight
(honourable to all who took part in it), we have conquered. This paper is in our hands, and
henceforward we shall support, to the best of our ability, the Leader of the Party, and denounce
the infamous pretensions of his opponents; still, it would be unwise to ignore the possibilities
of the future. We may be overpowered by a tyrannical majority. The time may come--

11 A.M.--It has! Hurroo! It was hard fighting to get back; but here we are again, ready to
denounce the leader, and support his opponents. For the moment we are victorious, but who shall
prophesy what may be looming in the distant ages? The hour may come--

12 NOON.--It has! And now that we have again taken possession, we must say we have never had
so elegant a quarrel. The shillelaghs were flinging about all over the place, cracking crowns
in all directions, and the scrimmages were just magnificent! It was an elegant row entirely!
But now to work. Our noble leader deserves his triumph, and his opponents are nowhere. Still
in the moment of victory, it would be foolish to overlook the chances of to-morrow. The hour
may come--

1 P.M.--It has! Be jabers, what a contest! But we have just slaughtered them! Oh, it was a
fine sight entirely! How the ink-pots flew about! Easy now, let us to business. The shorter
we make our remarks the better, as no one can say what will be happening hereafter. The hour
may come--

2 P.M.--It has! With a vengeance! We have defeated them! Hurroo, boys! This is not the time
for composition! Tread on the tail of my--we mean--our coat! Come on, ye dirty spalpeens! Hurroo!

    [Publication suspended until someone can be found--not
    otherwise engaged--to write and print it, while someone else
    starts a rival and "suppressed" edition.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE AMUSING RATTLE'S NOTE-BOOK FOR 1891.

January.--If dining out on the 1st, remember that the QUEEN was created Empress of Hindostan
on that date in 1877, although the Opposition tried to hinder her from assuming the title.
Work this out. Lent Term commences at Oxford and Cambridge. Can't be given away if only lent.
This entertaining quibble (suitable to five o'clock teas in Bayswater) can be applied to other
topics. Note the colours of the Universities, and bring in somehow "a fit of the blues." On
the 13th PITT died, on the 14th FOX was born. First date suggestive of PITT, the second of
pity. Good joke for the Midlands. Put it down to SHERIDAN.

February.--On the 3rd Lord SALISBURY born on St. Blaise's festival. Consequently might be expected
to set the Thames on fire. This said with a sneer, should go splendidly at a second-rate Radical
luncheon-party. On the 14th, if you receive an uncomplimentary missive, say it is less suggestive
of Valentine than Orson. This capital jest should make you a welcome guest in places where
they laugh until the end of the month.

March.--Not much doing. On the 8th Battle of Abookir, 1801. If you take care to pronounce the
victory A-book-er, you may possibly get a jest out of it in connection with a welshing transaction
on the turf, when you can call it "the defeat of A-book-er." Good at a hunting-breakfast where
the host is a nonagenarian, who can observe "1801?--the year of my birth!"

April.--Remember BISMARCK was born on the 1st, so it can't be "All Fools' Day." Work this up
to amuse a spinster aunt who reads the Times.

May.--You may say of the 1st, if it is cold, that it is a "naughty date." If you are asked
for a reason for this assertion, apologise and explain that you meant a "Connaughty date, for
it is Prince ARTHUR's Birthday." The claims of loyalty should secure for this quaint conceit
a right hearty welcome. In 1812, on the 22nd, GRISI the celebrated songstress was born. At
a distance of four hundred miles from London, in extremely unsophisticated society, you may
perhaps venture something about the notes of this far-famed artist being like "lubricated lightning"
for evident reasons, but you must not expect any one to laugh.

June.--The name of this month may assist you to a joke here and there in regard to a well-known
ecclesiastical lawyer and Queen's Counsel. This will be the more valuable, as the "remarkable
days" are few and far between, according to WHITAKER.

July.--Note that on the 3rd the Dog Days commence, and that it is also the anniversary of the
Battle of Sadowa. If you pronounce the victory "sad-hour" you should get a jest calculated
to cause merriment amongst persons who have spent the best years of their lives on desert islands,
or as Chancery Division Chief Clerks. On the 24th the Window Tax was abolished, of which you
may say that although a priceless boon it was only a light relief. If you can only introduce
this really clever bon mot into a speech at a wedding breakfast, a railway indignation meeting
or a debate in the House of Lords, it is sure to go with bowls not to say shrieks. PENN died
on the 30th, and in founding Pennsylvania was mightier than the sword. This announcement is
the nearest approach to levity that in common decency can be tolerated in a mourning coach.

August.--On the 1st, in 1834, no less than 770,280 British slaves were freed. You might ask
satirically, how many slaves (be they husbands or be they wives) now exist? You might offer
this to a clergyman to be used in a sermon. On the 26th, Anniversary of the Battle of Cressy.
Opportunity for saying (at the breaking-up of an infant school) that on account of the extremely
warm reception to which the French were welcomed on that occasion, the victory might be appropriately
called, "the Battle of Mustard-and-Cressy." This will be found pleasing by a Colonial Briton
home on furlough, and an Honorary Royal Academician living in retirement.

September.--On the 1st, Shooting at Partridges commences. Opportunity for aiming old jokes
about firing off guns without loading, killing dead birds, &c, &c. On the 3rd, the present
Lord Chancellor born in 1825--the name of GIFFARD entombed in Hals-bury. A little obscure this,
but, if carefully worked out, will amply repay time and attention. On the 9th THOMAS WATTS
(who may be amusingly called "Watts-his-name"), died in 1869. Not much in this, but may possibly
fill up an awkward pause during the reading of a will, or the arrival of fresh hot water at
a newly-married lady's initial hospitality at five o'clock tea.

October.--FIELDING, the novelist, bowled out on the 8th in 1754. Battle of Agincourt on the
25th--an awful example to habitual drunkards. Pheasant-shooting commences. Right time to tell
that story about the Cockney who, dropping his "h's," shot peasants instead! This well-worn
jest will be still found attractive by Australians who have spent the better part of their
lives in the Bush.

November.--Good joke still to be made in the quieter suburbs about having special appointments
for the 5th, when one has to take the chair at a meeting which perambulates the streets. Lord
Mayor's Day on the 9th--opportunity for letting off "the Mayor the merrier," "£10,000 a Mayor's
Nest-egg," &c, &c. Jests about the fog not now popular--the infliction is too serious for jocularity!

December.--Holiday time for everyone, inclusive of that most melancholy of persons "the funny
man." BOB LOWE (born in 1811) reaches the age of eighty, and the Grand Old Man (born in 1809)
eighty-two! With this ingenious quibble the Amusing Rattle can wish himself a Merry Christmas,
and the remainder of the world a Happy New Year.

       *       *       *       *       *

APPROPRIATE.--Sir,--Was there ever a more appropriate Christmas legal case than appeared in
the Times Law Report, December 20th, and which was entitled "The Mayor, &c. of Bootle-cum-Linacre
v. The Justices of Lancashire?" What delightful names for a comic chorus to a Bab Ballad in
a Pantomime.

  Solo. Oh, did ye ne'er hear of His Worship the Mayor
  Chorus. Of Bootle-cum-Linacre diddle-cum-dee;
  Solo. Who went for the Justices of Lankyshare,
  Chorus. Singing Bootle-cum-Linacre diddle-cum-dee.

Too late for the Burlesques and the Pantomimes, but it may still be serviceable at Music Halls
and "places where they sing."