The elegance of a table depends essentially upon its napery. The plainest of meals is made
a banquet if the linen be fresh, fine, and smooth, and the most sumptuous repast can be ruined
by a soiled and crumpled table-cloth. The housewife who wishes to conduct her house in elegance
must make up her mind to use five or six sets of napkins, and to have several dozens of each
ready for possible demands.

A napkin should never be put on the table a second time until it has been rewashed; therefore,
napkin-rings should be abandoned-- relegated to the nursery tea-table.

Breakfast napkins are of a smaller size than dinner napkins, and are very pretty if they bear
the initial letter of the family in the centre. Those of fine, double damask, with a simple
design, such as a snow-drop or a mathematical figure, to match the table-cloth, are also pretty.
In the end, the economy in the wear pays a young house- keeper to invest well in the best of
napery--double damask, good Irish linen. Never buy poor or cheap napkins; they are worn out
almost immediately by washing.

Coarse, heavy napkins are perhaps proper for the nursery and children's table. If children
dine with their parents, they should have a special set of napkins for their use, and some
very careful mammas make these with tapes to tie around the youthful necks. It is better in
a large family, where there are children, to have heavy and coarse table-linen for every-day
use. It is not an economy to buy colored cloths, for they must be washed as often as if they
were white, and no color stands the hard usage of the laundry as well as pure white.

Colored napery is, therefore, the luxury of a well-appointed country house, and has its use
in making the breakfast and luncheon table look a little unlike the dinner. Never use a parti-colored
damask for the dinner-table.

Those breakfast cloths of pink, or yellow, or light-blue and white, or drab, are very pretty
with napkins to match; but after having been washed a few times they become very dull in tint,
and are not as agreeable to the eye as white, which grows whiter with every summer's bleaching.
Ladies who live in the city should try to send all their napery to the country at least once
a year, and let it lie on the grass for a good bleaching. It seems to keep cleaner afterwards.

For dinner, large and handsome napkins, carefully ironed and folded simply, with a piece of
bread inside, should lie at each plate. These should be removed when the fruit course is brought,
and with each finger-bowl should be a colored napkin, with which to dry the fingers.

Pretty little fanciful doyleys are now also put under the finger- bowl, merely to be looked
at. Embroidered with quaint designs, these little three-inch things are very ornamental; but
the real and serviceable doyley should not be forgotten, and may be laid either beside or over
the top of the finger-bowl.

Many ladies are so extravagant that they have a second napkin of small size put on for that
part of the dessert which precedes the fruit, but this involves so much trouble to both the
guest and the waiter that it is not ordinarily done.

The napkins made at Berlin, with drawn thread and knotted fringe and lace effects, are very
handsome. They are also made at the South Kensington schools, and in Paris, and by the Decorative
Art Society in New York, and are beautifully wrought with monogram and crest in red, white,
and blue thread. But no napkin is ever more thoroughly elegant than the very thick, fine, and
substantial plain damask, which becomes more pure and smooth every time that it is cleansed.

However, as one of our great dinner-givers in New York has ordered twenty-four dozen of the
handsome, drawn-thread napkins from one establishment at Berlin, we must conclude that they
will become the fashion.

When breakfast is made a formal meal--that is, when company is invited to come at a stated
hour--serviettes, or large dinner- napkins, must be placed at each plate, as for a dinner.
But they are never used at a "stand-up" breakfast, nor are doyleys or finger- bowls.

If any accident happens, such as the spilling of a glass of wine or the upsetting of a plate,
the d,bris should be carefully cleared away, and the waiter should spread a clean napkin over
the desecrated table-cloth. Large, white napkins are invariably used at luncheon, and the smaller
ones kept for breakfast and tea. Some ladies like the little, fringed napkins for tea, but
to look well these must be very carefully washed and ironed.

Never fasten your napkin around your neck; lay it across your knees, convenient to the hand,
and lift one corner only to wipe the mouth. Men who wear a mustache are permitted to "saw"
the mouth with the napkin, as if it were a bearing-rein, but for ladies this would look too
masculine.

Napkins at hotels are now folded, in a half-wet condition, into all sorts of shapes: a goose,
a swan, a ship, a high boot, are all favorite and fanciful designs; but this is a dirty fashion,
requiring the manipulation of hands which are not always fresh, and as the napkin must be damp
at the folding, it is not always dry when shaken out. Nothing is so unhealthy as a damp napkin;
it causes agony to a delicate and nervous lady, a man with the rose-cold, a person with neuralgia
or rheumatism, and is offensive to every one. Never allow a napkin to be placed on the table
until it has been well aired. There is often a conspiracy between the waiter and the laundress
in great houses, both wishing to shirk work, the result of which is that the napkins, not prepared
at the proper time, are put on the table damp.

A house-keeper should have a large chest to contain napery which is not to be used every day.
This reserved linen should be washed and aired once a year at least, to keep it from moulding
and becoming yellow.

Our Dutch ancestors were very fond of enriching a chest of this kind, and many housewives in
New York and Albany are to-day using linen brought from Holland three hundred years ago.

The napery made in Ireland has, however, in our day taken the place of that manufactured in
other countries. It is good, cheap, and sometimes very handsome, and if it can be bought unadulterated
with cotton it will last many years.

Very little starch should be put in napkins. No one wishes to wipe a delicate lip on a board,
and a stiff napkin is very like that commodity.

At dinner-parties in England, in the days of William the Fourth, a napkin was handed with each
plate. As the guest took his plate and new napkin, he allowed the one which he had used to
fall to the floor, and when he went away from the table he left a snowy pile of napery behind him.

The use of linen for the table is one of the oldest of fashions, The early Italian tables were
served with such beautiful lace-worked napkins that we cannot equal them to-day. Queen Elizabeth's
napkins were edged with lace made in Flanders, and were an important item of expense in her
day-book.

Fringed, embroidered, and colored napkins made of silk are used by Chinese and Japanese magnates.
These articles may be washed, and are restored to their original purity by detergent agents
that are unknown to us. The Chinese also use little napkins of paper, which are very convenient
for luncheon baskets and picnics.

One of our correspondents asks us if she should fold her napkin before leaving the table. At
a fashionable meal, no. At a social tea or breakfast, yes, if her hostess does so. There is
no absolute law on this subject.

At a fashionable dinner no one folds his napkin. He lets it drop to the floor, or lays it by
the side of his plate unfolded. When the fruit napkin is brought he takes it from the glass
plate on which it is laid, and either places it at his right hand or across his knee, and the
"illuminated rag," as some wit called the little embroidered doyley, which is not meant for
use, is, after having been examined and admired, laid on the table, beside the finger-bowl.
These pretty little trifles can serve several times the purpose of ornamenting the finger-bowl.

Napkins, when laid away in a chest or drawer, should have some pleasant, cleanly herb like
lavender or sweet-grass, or the old- fashioned clover, or bags of Oriental orris-root, put
between them, that they may come to the table smelling of these delicious scents.

Nothing is more certain to destroy the appetite of a nervous dyspeptic than a napkin that smells
of greasy soap. There is a laundry soap now in use which leaves a very unpleasant odor in the
linen, and napkins often smell so strongly of it as to take away the desire for food.

Perhaps the influence of Delmonico upon the public has been in nothing more strongly shown
than in the effect produced by his always immaculate napery. It was not common in American
eating- houses, when he began, to offer clean table-cloths and clean napkins. Now no decent
diner will submit to any other than a clean napkin. Every lady, therefore, who aspires to elegant
housekeeping, should remember that she must never allow the same napkin to be put on her table
twice. Once used, it must be sent to the laundry before it is put on the table again.

CHAPTER XLV. SERVANTS, THEIR DRESS AND DUTIES.

As we read that a West Point hotel-keeper has recently dismissed all his waiters who would
not shave off their mustaches, we must begin to believe that the heretofore heedless American
is considering the appearance of his house and carriage-servants. In the early days of the
republic, before Thomas Jefferson tied his horse's rein to the palings of the fence and sauntered
into the Capitol to be inaugurated, the aristocrats of the various cities had a livery for
their servants. But after such a dash of cold water in the face of established usage by the
Chief Magistrate of the Country, many of the old forms and customs of Colonial times fell into
disuse, and among others the wearing of a livery by serving-men. A constantly declining grade
of shabbiness was the result of this, as the driver of the horses wore a coat and hat of the
same style as his master, only less clean and new. Like many of our American ideas so good
in theory, the outcome of this attempt at "Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity," was neither
conducive to neatness nor elegance.

But so strongly was the prejudice against liveries instilled into the public mind that only
seven years ago a gentleman of the most aristocratic circle of aristocratic Philadelphia declared
that he refrained from having a liveried servant behind his carriage from fear of shocking
public opinion. In New York the presence of a large, foreign, social element long ago brought
about a revulsion of opinion in this matter, and now most persons who desire a neat, plain,
and appropriate style of dress for their coachmen and footmen put them in a livery, for which
the master pays. Those who are particular in such matters do not allow a waiter or a footman
to wear a mustache, and require all men-servants to be clean-shaven, except the coachman, who
is permitted to wear whiskers. Each must have his hair cut short, and the waiter must wear
white gloves while waiting at table or when handing refreshments; even a glass of water on
a silver salver must be brought with a gloved hand.

Many ladies have much trouble in impressing upon their men-servants the necessity for personal
neatness. The ordinary attire of a butler is a black dress-coat, with white cravat and white
cotton gloves. A waiter who attends the door in a large establishment, and who is one of many
servants, is usually in a quiet livery--a frock-coat with brass buttons, and a striped waistcoat.
Some families affect the scarlet waistcoat for their footman, which, indeed, may be used with
very good effect for the negro servant.

Neatness is indispensable; a slovenly and inattentive servant betrays a slovenly household.
Yet servants often do their employers great injustice. They are slow to respond to the bell,
they give uncivil answers, they deny one person and admit another, they fail to deliver notes,
they are insolent, they neglect the orders of the mistress when she is out. We cannot expect
perfection in our domestic service, but it is possible, by painstaking and patient teaching,
to create a respectable and helpful serving class. Servants are very apt to take their tone
from their employers--to be civil if they are civil, and insolent if they are insolent. The
head of the house is very apt to be copied by his flunkies. One primal law we must mention--a
hostess should never reprove her servants in the presence of her guests; it is cruel both to
guest and servant, and always shows the hostess in an unamiable light. Whatever may go wrong,
the lady of the house should remain calm; if she is anguished, who can be happy?

We have not here, nominally, that helpful treasure known in England as the parlor-maid. We
call her a waitress, and expect her to do all the work of one floor. Such a person can be trained
by a good housekeeper to be a most admirable servant. She must be told to rise early, to attend
to the sweeping of the door-steps, to open the blinds, to light the fires, and to lay the breakfast-table.
She must appear in a neat calico dress, white apron and cap, and wait upon the family at breakfast.
After breakfast, the gentlemen will expect her to brush their hats, to bring overcoats and
overshoes, and to find the umbrellas. She must answer the door-bell as well, so should be nimble-footed
and quick-witted. When breakfast is over, she must remove the dishes and wash them, clean the
silver, and prepare for the next meal. In well-regulated households there is a day for sweeping,
a day for silver cleaning, a clay for mirror-polishing, and another for making bright and neat
the fireplaces; but each one of these duties requires a certain share of attention every day.
The parlor must be dusted, and the fires attended to, of course, so the parlor-maid, or the
waitress, in a large family has much to do. The best girls for this arduous situation are English,
but they are very difficult to procure. The Germans are not apt to remain long with one family.
The best available parlor-maids are Irishwomen who have lived some time in this country.

A servant often sins from ignorance, therefore time spent in teaching her is not wasted. She
should be supplied with such utensils as facilitate work, and one very good house-keeper declares
that the virtue of a waitress depends upon an infinity of crash. And there is no doubt that
a large supply of towels is a constant suggestion of cleanliness that is a great moral support
to a waitress.

In these days, when parlors are filled with bric-...-brac, a parlor- maid has no time to do
laundry-work, except such part of it as may pertain to her personally. The best of all arrangements
is to hire a laundress, who will do all the washing of the house. Even in a very economical
household this has been found to be the best plan, otherwise there is always an unexplained
delay when the bell rings. The appearance at the door of a dishevelled maid, with arms covered
with soapsuds, is not ornamental. If a cook can be found who will also undertake to do the
washing and ironing, it is a better and more satisfactory arrangement. But in our growing prosperity
this functionary has assumed new and extraordinary importance, and will do nothing but cook.

A young house-keeper beginning her life in a great city finds herself frequently confronted
with the necessity of having four servants--a cook, a laundress, a waiter or parlor-maid (sometimes
both), and a chamber-maid. None of these excellent auxiliaries is willing to do the other's
work: they generally quarrel. So the first experience of house-keeping is not agreeable. But
it is possible to find two servants who, if properly trained, will do all the service of a
small family, and do it well.

The mistress must carefully define the work of each, or else hire them with the understanding
that neither shall ever say, "This is not my work." It is sometimes quite impossible to define
what is the exact duty of each servant. Our house-keeping in this country is so chaotic, and
our frequent changes of house and fortune cause it to partake so much of the nature of a provisional
government, that every woman must be a Louis Napoleon, and ready for a coup d',tat at any moment.

The one thing which every lady must firmly demand from her servants is respect. The harassed
and troubled American woman who has to cope with the worst servants in the world--the ill-trained,
incapable, and vicious peasantry of Europe, who come here to be "as good as anybody," and who
see that it is easily possible to make a living in America whether they are respectful or not--that
woman has a very arduous task to perform.

But she must gain at least outward respect by insisting upon having it, and by showing her
servants that she regards it as even a greater desideratum than the efficient discharge of
duties. The mistress must not lose her temper. She must be calm, imperturbable, and dignified,
always. If she gives an order, she must insist, at whatever personal cost, that it shall be
obeyed. Pertinacity and inflexibility on this point are well bestowed.

Where there are children, the nurse is, of course, a most important part of the household,
and often gives more trouble than any of the other servants, for she is usually an elderly
person, impatient of control, and "set in her ways." The mistress must make her obey at once.
Nurses are only human, and can be made to conform to the rules by which humanity is governed.

Ladies have adopted for their nurses the French style of dress--dark stuff gowns, white aprons,
and caps. French nurses are, indeed, very much the fashion, as it is deemed all-important that
children should learn to speak French as soon as they can articulate. But it is so difficult
to find a French nurse who will speak the truth that many mothers have renounced the accomplished
Gaul and hired the Anglo- Saxon, who is often not more veracious.

No doubt there was better service when servants were fewer, and when the mistress looked well
after the ways of her household, and performed certain domestic duties herself. In those early
days it was she who made the best pastry and sweetmeats. It was she who wrought at the quilting-frame
and netted the best bed-curtains. It was she who darned the table-cloth, with a neatness and
exactness that made the very imperfection a beauty. It was she who made the currant wine and
the blackberry cordial. She knew all the secrets of clear starching, and taught the ignorant
how to do their work through her educated intelligence. She had, however, native Americans
to teach, and not Irish, Germans, or Swedes. Now, few native-born Americans will become servants,
and the difficulties of the mistress are thereby increased.

