Not only does the volume set forth, in language so simple that the layman can easily understand,
the large importance for public education of a careful measurement of the intelligence of children,
but it also describes the tests which are to be given and the entire procedure of giving them.
In a clear and easy style the author sets forth scientific facts of far-reaching educational
importance, facts which it has cost him, his students, and many other scientific workers, years
of painstaking labor to accumulate.

Only very recently, practically only within the past half-dozen years, have scientific workers
begun to appreciate fully the importance of intelligence tests as a guide to educational procedure,
and up to the present we have been able to make but little use of such tests in our schools.
The conception in itself has been new, and the testing procedure has been more or less unrefined
and technical. The following somewhat popular presentation of the idea and of the methods involved,
itself based on a scientific monograph which the author is publishing elsewhere, serves for
the first time to set forth in simple language the technical details of giving such intelligence
tests.

The educational significance of the results to be obtained from careful measurements of the
intelligence of children can hardly be overestimated. Questions relating to the choice of studies,
vocational guidance, schoolroom procedure, the grading of pupils, promotional schemes, the
study of the retardation of children in the schools, juvenile delinquency, and the proper handling
of subnormals on the one hand and gifted children on the other,--all alike acquire new meaning
and significance when viewed in the light of the measurement of intelligence as outlined in
this volume. As a guide to the interpretation of the results of other forms of investigation
relating to the work, progress, and needs of children, intelligence tests form a very valuable
aid. More than all other forms of data combined, such tests give the necessary information
from which a pupil's possibilities of future mental growth can be foretold, and upon which
his further education can be most profitably directed.

The publication of this revision and extension of the original Binet-Simon scale for measuring
intelligence, with the closer adaptation of it to American conditions and needs, should mark
a distinct step in advance in our educational procedure. It means the perfection of another
and a very important measuring stick for evaluating educational practices, and in particular
for diagnosing individual possibilities and needs. Just now the method is new, and its use
somewhat limited, but it is the confident prediction of many students of the subject that,
before long, intelligence tests will become as much a matter of necessary routine in schoolroom
procedure as a blood-count now is in physical diagnosis. That our schoolroom methods will in
turn become much more intelligent, and that all classes of children, but especially the gifted
and the slow, will profit by such intellectual diagnosis, there can be but little question.

That any parent or teacher, without training, can give these tests, the author in no way contends.
However, the observations of Dr. Kohs, cited in Chapter VII, as well as the experience of the
author and others who have given courses in intelligence testing to teachers, alike indicate
that sufficient skill to enable teachers and school principals to give such tests intelligently
is not especially difficult to acquire. This being the case it may be hoped that the requisite
training to enable them to handle these tests may be included, very soon, as a part of the
necessary pedagogical equipment of those who aspire to administrative positions in our public
and private schools.

Besides being of special importance to school officers and to students of education in colleges
and normal schools, this volume can confidently be recommended to physicians and social workers,
and to teachers and parents interested in intelligence measurements, as at once the simplest
and the best explanation of the newly-evolved intelligence tests, which has so far appeared
in print.

    ELLWOOD P. CUBBERLEY.

PREFACE

The constant and growing use of the Binet-Simon intelligence scale in public schools, institutions
for defectives, reform schools, juvenile courts, and police courts is sufficient evidence of
the intrinsic worth of the method. It is generally recognized, however, that the serviceableness
of the scale has hitherto been seriously limited, both by the lack of a sufficiently detailed
guide and by a number of recognized imperfections in the scale itself. The Stanford revision
and extension has been worked out for the purpose of correcting as many as possible of these
imperfections, and it is here presented with a rather minute description of the method as a
whole and of the individual tests.

The aim has been to present the explanations and instructions so clearly and in such an untechnical
form as to make the book of use, not only to the psychologist, but also to the rank and file
of teachers, physicians, and social workers. More particularly, it is designed as a text for
use in normal schools, colleges, and teachers' reading-circles.

While the use of the intelligence scale for research purposes and for accurate diagnosis will
of necessity always be restricted to those who have had extensive training in experimental
psychology, the author believes that the time has come when its wider use for more general
purposes should be encouraged.

However, it cannot be too strongly emphasized that no one, whatever his previous training may
have been, can make proper use of the scale unless he is willing to learn the method of procedure
and scoring down to the minutest detail. A general acquaintance with the nature of the individual
tests is by no means sufficient.

Perhaps the best way to learn the method will be to begin by studying the book through, in
order to gain a general acquaintance with the tests; then, if possible, to observe a few examinations;
and finally to take up the procedure for detailed study in connection with practice testing.
Twenty or thirty tests, made with constant reference to the procedure as described in Part II,
should be sufficient to prepare the teacher or physician to make profitable use of the scale.

The Stanford revision of the scale is the result of a number of investigations, made possible
by the coöperation of the author's graduate students. Grateful acknowledgment is especially
due to Professor H. G. Childs, Miss Grace Lyman, Dr. George Ordahl, Dr. Louise Ellison Ordahl,
Miss Neva Galbreath, Mr. Wilford Talbert, Mr. J. Harold Williams, and Mr. Herbert E. Knollin.
Without their assistance this book could not have been written.

    STANFORD UNIVERSITY,
        April, 1916.

CONTENTS

PART I. PROBLEMS AND RESULTS

CHAPTER I

THE USES OF INTELLIGENCE TESTS                                         3

  Intelligence tests of retarded school children. Intelligence
  tests of the feeble-minded. Intelligence tests of delinquents.
  Intelligence tests of superior children. Intelligence tests as a
  basis for grading. Intelligence tests for vocational fitness.
  Other uses of intelligence tests.

CHAPTER II

SOURCES OF ERROR IN JUDGING INTELLIGENCE                              22

  Are intelligence tests superfluous? The necessity of standards.
  The intelligence of retarded children usually overestimated. The
  intelligence of superior children usually underestimated. Other
  fallacies in the estimation of intelligence. Binet's
  questionnaire on teachers' methods of judging intelligence.
  Binet's experiment on how teachers test intelligence.

CHAPTER III

DESCRIPTION OF THE BINET-SIMON METHOD                                 36

  Essential nature of the scale. How the scale was derived. List of
  tests. How the scale is used. Special characteristics of the
  Binet-Simon method. The use of age standards. The kind of mental
  functions brought into play. Binet would test "general
  intelligence." Binet's conception of general intelligence. Other
  conceptions of intelligence. Guiding principles in choice and
  arrangement of tests. Some avowed limitations of the Binet tests.

CHAPTER IV

NATURE OF THE STANFORD REVISION AND EXTENSION                         51

  Sources of data. Method of arriving at a revision. List of tests
  in the Stanford revision and extension. Summary of changes.
  Effects of the revision on the mental ages secured.

CHAPTER V

ANALYSIS OF ONE THOUSAND INTELLIGENCE QUOTIENTS                       65

  The distribution of intelligence. The validity of the
  intelligence quotient. Sex differences. Intelligence of the
  different social classes. The relation of the I Q to the quality
  of the child's school work. The relation between I Q and grade
  progress. Correlation between I Q and the teachers' estimates of
  the children's intelligence. The validity of the individual
  tests.

CHAPTER VI

THE SIGNIFICANCE OF VARIOUS INTELLIGENCE QUOTIENTS                    78

  Frequency of different degrees of intelligence. Classification of
  intelligence quotients. Feeble-mindedness. Border-line cases.
  Examples of border-line deficiency. Dull normals. Average
  intelligence. Superior intelligence. Very superior intelligence.
  Examples of very superior intelligence. Genius and "near" genius.
  Is the I Q often misleading?

CHAPTER VII

RELIABILITY OF THE BINET-SIMON METHOD                                105

  General value of the method. Dependence of the scale's
  reliability on the training of the examiner. Influence of the
  subject's attitude. The influence of coaching. Reliability of
  repeated tests. Influence of social and educational advantages.

PART II

GUIDE FOR THE USE OF THE STANFORD REVISION AND EXTENSION

CHAPTER VIII

GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS                                                 121

  Necessity of securing attention and effort. Quiet and seclusion.
  Presence of others. Getting into rapport. Keeping the child
  encouraged. The importance of tact. Personality of the examiner.
  The avoidance of fatigue. Duration of the examination. Desirable
  range of testing. Order of giving the tests. Coaxing to be
  avoided. Adhering to formula. Scoring. Recording responses.
  Scattering of successes. Supplementary considerations.
  Alternative tests. Finding mental age. The use of the
  intelligence quotient. How to find the I Q of adult subjects.
  Material for use in testing.

CHAPTER IX

INSTRUCTIONS FOR YEAR III

  1. Pointing to parts of the body                                   142
  2. Naming familiar objects                                         143
  3. Enumeration of objects in pictures                              145
  4. Giving sex                                                      146
  5. Giving the family name                                          147
  6. Repeating six to seven syllables                                149
     Alternative test: Repeating three digits                        150

CHAPTER X

INSTRUCTIONS FOR YEAR IV

  1. Comparison of lines                                             151
  2. Discrimination of forms                                         152
  3. Counting four pennies                                           154
  4. Copying a square                                                155
  5. Comprehension, first degree                                     157
  6. Repeating four digits                                           159
     Alternative test: Repeating twelve to thirteen syllables        160

CHAPTER XI

INSTRUCTIONS FOR YEAR V

  1. Comparison of weights                                           161
  2. Naming colors                                                   163
  3. Æsthetic comparison                                             165
  4. Giving definitions in terms of use                              167
  5. The game of patience                                            169
  6. Three commissions                                               172
     Alternative test: Giving age                                    173

CHAPTER XII

INSTRUCTIONS FOR YEAR VI

  1. Distinguishing right and left                                   175
  2. Finding omissions in pictures                                   178
  3. Counting thirteen pennies                                       180
  4. Comprehension, second degree                                    181
  5. Naming four coins                                               184
  6. Repeating sixteen to eighteen syllables                         185
     Alternative test: Forenoon and afternoon                        187

CHAPTER XIII

INSTRUCTIONS FOR YEAR VII

  1. Giving the number of fingers                                    189
  2. Description of pictures                                         190
  3. Repeating five digits                                           193
  4. Tying a bow-knot                                                196
  5. Giving differences from memory                                  199
  6. Copying a diamond                                               204
     Alternative test 1: Naming the days of the week                 205
     Alternative test 2: Repeating three digits reversed             207

CHAPTER XIV

INSTRUCTIONS FOR YEAR VIII

  1. The ball-and-field test                                         210
  2. Counting backwards from 20 to 1                                 213
  3. Comprehension, third degree                                     215
  4. Giving similarities, two things                                 217
  5. Giving definitions superior to use                              221
  6. Vocabulary (20 definitions, 3600 words)                         224
     Alternative test 1: Naming six coins                            231
     Alternative test 2: Writing from dictation                      231

CHAPTER XV

INSTRUCTIONS FOR YEAR IX

  1. Giving the date                                                 234
  2. Arranging five weights                                          236
  3. Making change                                                   240
  4. Repeating four digits reversed                                  242
  5. Using three words in a sentence                                 242
  6. Finding rhymes                                                  248
     Alternative test 1: Naming the months                           251
     Alternative test 2: Counting the value of stamps                252

CHAPTER XVI

INSTRUCTIONS FOR YEAR X

  1. Vocabulary (30 definitions, 5400 words)                         255
  2. Detecting absurdities                                           255
  3. Drawing designs from memory                                     260
  4. Reading for eight memories                                      262
  5. Comprehension, fourth degree                                    268
  6. Naming sixty words                                              272
     Alternative test 1: Repeating six digits                        277
     Alternative test 2: Repeating twenty to twenty-two syllables    277
     Alternative test 3: Healy's Construction Puzzle A               278

CHAPTER XVII

INSTRUCTIONS FOR YEAR XII

  1. Vocabulary (40 definitions, 7200 words)                         281
  2. Defining abstract words                                         281
  3. The ball-and-field test (superior plan)                         286
  4. Dissected sentences                                             286
  5. Interpretation of fables (score 4)                              290
  6. Repeating five digits reversed                                  301
  7. Interpretation of pictures                                      302
  8. Giving similarities, three things                               306

CHAPTER XVIII

INSTRUCTIONS FOR YEAR XIV

  1. Vocabulary (50 definitions, 9000 words)                         310
  2. Induction test: finding a rule                                  310
  3. Giving differences between a president and a king               313
  4. Problem questions                                               315
  5. Arithmetical reasoning                                          319
  6. Reversing hands of a clock                                      321
     Alternative test: Repeating seven digits                        322

CHAPTER XIX

INSTRUCTIONS FOR "AVERAGE ADULT"

  1. Vocabulary (65 definitions, 11,700 words)                       324
  2. Interpretation of fables (score 8)                              324
  3. Differences between abstract terms                              324
  4. Problem of the enclosed boxes                                   327
  5. Repeating six digits reversed                                   329
  6. Using a code                                                    330
     Alternative test 1: Repeating twenty-eight syllables            332
     Alternative test 2: Comprehension of physical relations         333

CHAPTER XX

INSTRUCTIONS FOR "SUPERIOR ADULT"

  1. Vocabulary (75 definitions, 13,500 words)                       338
  2. Binet's paper-cutting test                                      338
  3. Repeating eight digits                                          340
  4. Repeating thought of passage                                    340
  5. Repeating seven digits reversed                                 345
  6. Ingenuity test                                                  345

SELECTED REFERENCES                                                  349

INDEX                                                                359

FIGURES AND DIAGRAMS

  1. Distribution of Mental Ages of 62 Normal Adults                  55
  2. Distribution of I Q's of 905 Unselected Children, 5-14 Years
     of Age                                                           66
  3. Median I Q of 457 Boys and 448 Girls, for the Ages 5-14 Years    69
  4. Diamond drawn by R. W.; Age 13-10; Mental Age 7-6                82
  5. Writing from Dictation. R. M., Age 15; Mental Age 9              83
  6. Ball and Field Test. I. M., Age 14-2; Mental Age 9               84
  7. Diamond drawn by A. W.                                           85
  8. Drawing Designs from Memory. H. S., Age 11; Mental Age 8-3       86
  9. Ball and Field Test. S. F., Age 17; Mental Age 11-6              88
 10. Writing from Dictation. C. P., Age 10-2; Mental Age 7-11         90
 11. Ball and Field Test. M. P., Age 14; Mental Age 10-8              91
 12. Ball and Field Test. R. G., Age 13-5; Mental Age 10-6            93
 13. Ball and Field Test. E. B., Age 7-9; I Q 130                     98
 14. Ball and Field Test. F. McA., Age 10-3; Mental Age 14-6         100
 15. Drawing Designs from Memory. E. M., Age 6-11; Mental Age 10,
     I Q 145                                                         101
 16. Ball and Field Test. B. F., Age 7-8; Mental Age 12-4; I Q 160   102
 17. Healy and Fernald Construction Puzzle                           279

THE MEASUREMENT OF INTELLIGENCE

PART I

PROBLEMS AND RESULTS

THE MEASUREMENT OF INTELLIGENCE

CHAPTER I

THE USES OF INTELLIGENCE TESTS

INTELLIGENCE TESTS OF RETARDED SCHOOL CHILDREN. Numerous studies of the age-grade progress
of school children have afforded convincing evidence of the magnitude and seriousness of the
retardation problem. Statistics collected in hundreds of cities in the United States show that
between a third and a half of the school children fail to progress through the grades at the
expected rate; that from 10 to 15 per cent are retarded two years or more; and that from 5 to 8 per cent
are retarded at least three years. More than 10 per cent of the $400,000,000 annually expended
in the United States for school instruction is devoted to re-teaching children what they have
already been taught but have failed to learn.

The first efforts at reform which resulted from these findings were based on the supposition
that the evils which had been discovered could be remedied by the individualizing of instruction,
by improved methods of promotion, by increased attention to children's health, and by other
reforms in school administration. Although reforms along these lines have been productive of
much good, they have nevertheless been in a measure disappointing. The trouble was, they were
too often based upon the assumption that under the right conditions all children would be equally,
or almost equally, capable of making satisfactory school progress. Psychological studies of
school children by means of standardized intelligence tests have shown that this supposition
is not in accord with the facts. It has been found that children do not fall into two well-defined
groups, the "feeble-minded" and the "normal." Instead, there are many grades of intelligence,
ranging from idiocy on the one hand to genius on the other. Among those classed as normal,
vast individual differences have been found to exist in original mental endowment, differences
which affect profoundly the capacity to profit from school instruction.

We are beginning to realize that the school must take into account, more seriously than it
has yet done, the existence and significance of these differences in endowment. Instead of
wasting energy in the vain attempt to hold mentally slow and defective children up to a level
of progress which is normal to the average child, it will be wiser to take account of the inequalities
of children in original endowment and to differentiate the course of study in such a way that
each child will be allowed to progress at the rate which is normal to him, whether that rate
be rapid or slow.

While we cannot hold all children to the same standard of school progress, we can at least
prevent the kind of retardation which involves failure and the repetition of a school grade.
It is well enough recognized that children do not enter with very much zest upon school work
in which they have once failed. Failure crushes self-confidence and destroys the spirit of
work. It is a sad fact that a large proportion of children in the schools are acquiring the
habit of failure. The remedy, of course, is to measure out the work for each child in proportion
to his mental ability.

Before an engineer constructs a railroad bridge or trestle, he studies the materials to be
used, and learns by means of tests exactly the amount of strain per unit of size his materials
will be able to withstand. He does not work empirically, and count upon patching up the mistakes
which may later appear under the stress of actual use. The educational engineer should emulate
this example. Tests and forethought must take the place of failure and patchwork. Our efforts
have been too long directed by "trial and error." It is time to leave off guessing and to acquire
a scientific knowledge of the material with which we have to deal. When instruction must be
repeated, it means that the school, as well as the pupil, has failed.

Every child who fails in his school work or is in danger of failing should be given a mental
examination. The examination takes less than one hour, and the result will contribute more
to a real understanding of the case than anything else that could be done. It is necessary
to determine whether a given child is unsuccessful in school because of poor native ability,
or because of poor instruction, lack of interest, or some other removable cause.

It is not sufficient to establish any number of special classes, if they are to be made the
dumping-ground for all kinds of troublesome cases--the feeble-minded, the physically defective,
the merely backward, the truants, the incorrigibles, etc. Without scientific diagnosis and
classification of these children the educational work of the special class must blunder along
in the dark. In such diagnosis and classification our main reliance must always be in mental
tests, properly used and properly interpreted.

INTELLIGENCE TESTS OF THE FEEBLE-MINDED. Thus far intelligence tests have found their chief
application in the identification and grading of the feeble-minded. Their value for this purpose
is twofold. In the first place, it is necessary to ascertain the degree of defect before it
is possible to decide intelligently upon either the content or the method of instruction suited
to the training of the backward child. In the second place, intelligence tests are rapidly
extending our conception of "feeble-mindedness" to include milder degrees of defect than have
generally been associated with this term. The earlier methods of diagnosis caused a majority
of the higher grade defectives to be overlooked. Previous to the development of psychological
methods the low-grade moron was about as high a type of defective as most physicians or even
psychologists were able to identify as feeble-minded.

Wherever intelligence tests have been made in any considerable number in the schools, they
have shown that not far from 2 per cent of the children enrolled have a grade of intelligence
which, however long they live, will never develop beyond the level which is normal to the average
child of 11 or 12 years. The large majority of these belong to the moron grade; that is, their
mental development will stop somewhere between the 7-year and 12-year level of intelligence,
more often between 9 and 12.

The more we learn about such children, the clearer it becomes that they must be looked upon
as real defectives. They may be able to drag along to the fourth, fifth, or sixth grades, but
even by the age of 16 or 18 years they are never able to cope successfully with the more abstract
and difficult parts of the common-school course of study. They may master a certain amount
of rote learning, such as that involved in reading and in the manipulation of number combinations
but they cannot be taught to meet new conditions effectively or to think, reason, and judge
as normal persons do.

It is safe to predict that in the near future intelligence tests will bring tens of thousands
of these high-grade defectives under the surveillance and protection of society. This will
ultimately result in curtailing the reproduction of feeble-mindedness and in the elimination
of an enormous amount of crime, pauperism, and industrial inefficiency. It is hardly necessary
to emphasize that the high-grade cases, of the type now so frequently overlooked, are precisely
the ones whose guardianship it is most important for the State to assume.

INTELLIGENCE TESTS OF DELINQUENTS. One of the most important facts brought to light by the
use of intelligence tests is the frequent association of delinquency and mental deficiency.
Although it has long been recognized that the proportion of feeble-mindedness among offenders
is rather large, the real amount has, until recently, been underestimated even by the most
competent students of criminology.

The criminologists have been accustomed to give more attention to the physical than to the
mental correlates of crime. Thus, Lombroso and his followers subjected thousands of criminals
to observation and measurement with regard to such physical traits as size and shape of the
skull, bilateral asymmetries, anomalies of the ear, eye, nose, palate, teeth, hands, fingers,
hair, dermal sensitivity, etc. The search was for physical "stigmata" characteristic of the
"criminal type."

Although such studies performed an important service in creating a scientific interest in criminology,
the theories of Lombroso have been wholly discredited by the results of intelligence tests.
Such tests have demonstrated, beyond any possibility of doubt, that the most important trait
of at least 25 per cent of our criminals is mental weakness. The physical abnormalities which
have been found so common among prisoners are not the stigmata of criminality, but the physical
accompaniments of feeble-mindedness. They have no diagnostic significance except in so far
as they are indications of mental deficiency. Without exception, every study which has been
made of the intelligence level of delinquents has furnished convincing testimony as to the
close relation existing between mental weakness and moral abnormality. Some of these findings
are as follows:--

    Miss Renz tested 100 girls of the Ohio State Reformatory and
    reported 36 per cent as certainly feeble-minded. In every one of
    these cases the commitment papers had given the pronouncement
    "intellect sound."

    Under the direction of Dr. Goddard the Binet tests were given to
    100 juvenile court cases, chosen at random, in Newark, New
    Jersey. Nearly half were classified as feeble-minded. One boy
    17 years old had 9-year intelligence; another of 15½ had
    8-year intelligence.

    Of 56 delinquent girls 14 to 20 years of age tested by Hill and
    Goddard, almost half belonged either to the 9- or the 10-year
    level of intelligence.

    Dr. G. G. Fernald's tests of 100 prisoners at the Massachusetts
    State Reformatory showed that at least 25 per cent were
    feeble-minded.

    Of 1186 girls tested by Miss Dewson at the State Industrial
    School for Girls at Lancaster, Pennsylvania, 28 per cent were
    found to have subnormal intelligence.

    Dr. Katherine Bement Davis's report on 1000 cases entered in the
    Bedford Home for Women, New York, stated that there was no doubt
    but that at least 157 were feeble-minded. Recently there has
    been established at this institution one of the most important
    research laboratories of the kind in the United States, with a
    trained psychologist, Dr. Mabel Fernald, in charge.

    Of 564 prostitutes investigated by Dr. Anna Dwyer in connection
    with the Municipal Court of Chicago, only 3 per cent had gone
    beyond the fifth grade in school. Mental tests were not made,
    but from the data given it is reasonably certain that half or
    more were feeble-minded.

    Tests, by Dr. George Ordahl and Dr. Louise Ellison Ordahl, of
    cases in the Geneva School for Girls, Geneva, Illinois, showed
    that, on a conservative basis of classification, at least
    18 per cent were feeble-minded. At the Joliet Prison, Illinois,
    the same authors found 50 per cent of the female prisoners
    feeble-minded, and 26 per cent of the male prisoners. At the St.
    Charles School for Boys 26 per cent were feeble-minded.

    Tests, by Dr. J. Harold Williams, of 150 delinquents in the
    Whittier State School for Boys, Whittier, California, gave
    28 per cent feeble-minded and 25 per cent at or near the
    border-line. About 300 other juvenile delinquents tested by
    Mr. Williams gave approximately the same figures. As a result of
    these findings a research laboratory has been established at the
    Whittier School, with Dr. Williams in charge. In the girls'
    division of the Whittier School, Dr. Grace Fernald collected a
    large amount of psychological data on more than 100 delinquent
    girls. The findings of this investigation agree closely with
    those of Dr. Williams for the boys.

    At the State Reformatory, Jeffersonville, Indiana, Dr. von
    Klein-Schmid, in an unusually thorough psychological study of
    1000 young adult prisoners, finds the proportion of
    feeble-mindedness not far from 50 per cent.

But it is needless to multiply statistics. Those given are but samples. Tests are at present
being made in most of the progressive prisons, reform schools, and juvenile courts throughout
the country, and while there are minor discrepancies in regard to the actual percentage who
are feeble-minded, there is no investigator who denies the fearful rôle played by mental deficiency
in the production of vice, crime, and delinquency.[1]

[1] See References at end of volume.

Heredity studies of "degenerate" families have confirmed, in a striking way, the testimony
secured by intelligence tests. Among the best known of such families are the "Kallikaks," the
"Jukes," the "Hill Folk," the "Nams," the "Zeros," and the "Ishmaelites."

    The Kallikak family. Martin Kallikak was a youthful soldier in
    the Revolutionary War. At a tavern frequented by the militia he
    met a feeble-minded girl, by whom he became the father of a
    feeble-minded son. In 1912 there were 480 known direct
    descendants of this temporary union. It is known that 36 of
    these were illegitimates, that 33 were sexually immoral, that 24
    were confirmed alcoholics, and that 8 kept houses of ill-fame.
    The explanation of so much immorality will be obvious when it is
    stated that of the 480 descendants, 143 were known to be
    feeble-minded, and that many of the others were of questionable
    mentality.

    A few years after returning from the war this same Martin
    Kallikak married a respectable girl of good family. From this
    union 496 individuals have been traced in direct descent, and in
    this branch of the family there were no illegitimate children,
    no immoral women, and only one man who was sexually loose. There
    were no criminals, no keepers of houses of ill-fame, and only
    two confirmed alcoholics. Again the explanation is clear when it
    is stated that this branch of the family did not contain a
    single feeble-minded individual. It was made up of doctors,
    lawyers, judges, educators, traders, and landholders.[2]

    [2] H. H. Goddard: The Kallikak Family. (1914.) 141 pp.

    The Hill Folk. The Hill Folk are a New England family of which
    709 persons have been traced. Of the married women, 24 per cent
    had given birth to illegitimate offspring, and 10 per cent were
    prostitutes. Criminal tendencies were clearly shown in
    24 members of the family, while alcoholism was still more
    common. The proportion of feeble-minded was 48 per cent. It was
    estimated that the Hill Folk have in the last sixty years cost
    the State of Massachusetts, in charitable relief, care of
    feeble-minded, epileptic, and insane, conviction and punishment
    for crime, prostitution pauperism, etc., at least $500,000.[3]

    [3] Danielson and Davenport: The Hill Folk. Eugenics Record Office,
    Memoir No. 1. 1912. 56 pp.

    The Nam family and the Jukes give equally dark pictures as
    regards criminality, licentiousness, and alcoholism, and
    although feeble-mindedness was not as fully investigated in
    these families as in the Kallikaks and the Hill Folk, the
    evidence is strong that it was a leading trait. The 784 Nams who
    were traced included 187 alcoholics, 232 women and 199 men known
    to be licentious, and 40 who became prisoners. It is estimated
    that the Nams have already cost the State nearly $1,500,000.[4]

    [4] Estabrook and Davenport: The Nam Family. Eugenics Record Office
    Memoir No. 2. (1912). 85 pp.

    Of 540 Jukes, practically one fifth were born out of wedlock, 37
    were known to be syphilitic, 53 had been in the poorhouse, 76
    had been sentenced to prison, and of 229 women of marriageable
    age 128 were prostitutes. The economic damage inflicted upon the
    State of New York by the Jukes in seventy-five years was
    estimated at more than $1,300,000, to say nothing of diseases
    and other evil influences which they helped to spread.[5]

    [5] R. L. Dugdale: The Jukes. (Fourth edition, 1910.) 120 pp. G. P.
    Putnam's Sons.

But why do the feeble-minded tend so strongly to become delinquent? The answer may be stated
in simple terms. Morality depends upon two things: (a) the ability to foresee and to weigh
the possible consequences for self and others of different kinds of behavior; and (b) upon
the willingness and capacity to exercise self-restraint. That there are many intelligent criminals
is due to the fact that (a) may exist without (b). On the other hand, (b) presupposes (a).
In other words, not all criminals are feeble-minded, but all feeble-minded are at least potential
criminals. That every feeble-minded woman is a potential prostitute would hardly be disputed
by any one. Moral judgment, like business judgment, social judgment, or any other kind of higher
thought process, is a function of intelligence. Morality cannot flower and fruit if intelligence
remains infantile.

All of us in early childhood lacked moral responsibility. We were as rank egoists as any criminal.
Respect for the feelings, the property rights, or any other kind of rights, of others had to
be laboriously acquired under the whip of discipline. But by degrees we learned that only when
instincts are curbed, and conduct is made to conform to principles established formally or
accepted tacitly by our neighbors, does this become a livable world for any of us. Without
the intelligence to generalize the particular, to foresee distant consequences of present acts,
to weigh these foreseen consequences in the nice balance of imagination, morality cannot be
learned. When the adult body, with its adult instincts, is coupled with the undeveloped intelligence
and weak inhibitory powers of a 10-year-old child, the only possible outcome, except in those
cases where constant guardianship is exercised by relatives or friends, is some form of delinquency.

Considering the tremendous cost of vice and crime, which in all probability amounts to not
less than $500,000,000 per year in the United States alone, it is evident that psychological
testing has found here one of its richest applications. Before offenders can be subjected to
rational treatment a mental diagnosis is necessary, and while intelligence tests do not constitute
a complete psychological diagnosis, they are, nevertheless, its most indispensable part.

INTELLIGENCE TESTS OF SUPERIOR CHILDREN. The number of children with very superior ability
is approximately as great as the number of feeble-minded. The future welfare of the country
hinges, in no small degree, upon the right education of these superior children. Whether civilization
moves on and up depends most on the advances made by creative thinkers and leaders in science,
politics, art, morality, and religion. Moderate ability can follow, or imitate, but genius
must show the way.

Through the leveling influences of the educational lockstep such children at present are often
lost in the masses. It is a rare child who is able to break this lockstep by extra promotions.
Taking the country over, the ratio of "accelerates" to "retardates" in the school is approximately
1 to 10. Through the handicapping influences of poverty, social neglect, physical defects,
or educational maladjustments, many potential leaders in science, art, government, and industry
are denied the opportunity of a normal development. The use we have made of exceptional ability
reminds one of the primitive methods of surface mining. It is necessary to explore the nation's
hidden resources of intelligence. The common saying that "genius will out" is one of those
dangerous half-truths with which too many people rest content.

Psychological tests show that children of superior ability are very likely to be misunderstood
in school. The writer has tested more than a hundred children who were as much above average
intelligence as moron defectives are below. The large majority of these were found located
below the school grade warranted by their intellectual level. One third had failed to reap
any advantage whatever, in terms of promotion, from their very superior intelligence. Even
genius languishes when kept over-long at tasks that are too easy.

Our data show that teachers sometimes fail entirely to recognize exceptional superiority in
a pupil, and that the degree of such superiority is rarely estimated with anything like the
accuracy which is possible to the psychologist after a one-hour examination. B. F., for example,
was a little over 7½ years old when tested. He was in the third grade, and was therefore thought
by his teacher to be accelerated in school. This boy's intelligence, however, was found to
be above the 12-year level. There is no doubt that his mental ability would have enabled him,
with a few months of individual instruction, to carry fifth or even sixth-grade work as easily
as third, and without injury to body or mind. Nevertheless, the teacher and both the parents
of this child had found nothing remarkable about him. In reality he belongs to a grade of genius
not found oftener than once in several thousand cases.

Another illustration is that of a boy of 10½ years who tested at the "average adult" level.
He was doing superior work in the sixth grade, but according to the testimony of the teacher
had "no unusual ability." It was ascertained from the parents that this boy, at an age when
most children are reading fairy stories, had a passion for standard medical literature and
textbooks in physical science. Yet, after more than a year of daily contact with this young
genius (who is a relative of Meyerbeer, the composer), the teacher had discovered no symptoms
of unusual ability.[6]

[6] See p. 26 ff. for further illustrations of this kind.

Teachers should be better trained in detecting the signs of superior ability. Every child who
consistently gets high marks in his school work with apparent ease should be given a mental
examination, and if his intelligence level warrants it he should either be given extra promotions,
or placed in a special class for superior children where faster progress can be made. The latter
is the better plan, because it obviates the necessity of skipping grades; it permits rapid
but continuous progress.

The usual reluctance of teachers to give extra promotions probably rests upon three factors:
(1) mere inertia; (2) a natural unwillingness to part with exceptionally satisfactory pupils;
and (3) the traditional belief that precocious children should be held back for fear of dire
physical or mental consequences.

In order to throw light on the question whether exceptionally bright children are specially
likely to be one-sided, nervous, delicate, morally abnormal, socially unadaptable, or otherwise
peculiar, the writer has secured rather extensive information regarding 31 children whose mental
age was found by intelligence tests to be 25 per cent above the actual age. This degree of
intelligence is possessed by about 2 children out of 100, and is nearly as far above average
intelligence as high-grade feeble-mindedness is below. The supplementary information, which
was furnished in most cases by the teachers, may be summarized as follows:--

  1. Ability special or general. In the case of 20 out of 31 the
      ability is decidedly general, and with 2 it is mainly general.
      The talents of 5 are described as more or less special, but
      only in one case is it remarkably so. Doubtful 4.

  2. Health. 15 are said to be perfectly healthy; 13 have one or
      more physical defects; 4 of the 13 are described as delicate;
      4 have adenoids; 4 have eye-defects; 1 lisps; and 1 stutters.
      These figures are about the same as one finds in any group of
      ordinary children.

  3. Studiousness. "Extremely studious," 15; "usually studious" or
      "fairly studious," 11; "not particularly studious," 5; "lazy,"
      0.

  4. Moral traits. Favorable traits only, 19; one or more
      unfavorable traits, 8; no answer, 4. The eight with
      unfavorable moral traits are described as follows: 2 are "very
      self-willed"; 1 "needs close watching"; 1 is "cruel to
      animals"; 1 is "untruthful"; 1 is "unreliable"; 1 is "a
      bluffer"; 1 is "sexually abnormal," "perverted," and
      "vicious."

      It will be noted that with the exception of the last child,
      the moral irregularities mentioned can hardly be regarded,
      from the psychological point of view, as essentially abnormal.
      It is perhaps a good rather than a bad sign for a child to be
      self-willed; most children "need close watching"; and a
      certain amount of untruthfulness in children is the rule and
      not the exception.

  5. Social adaptability. Socially adaptable, 25; not adaptable,
      2; doubtful, 4.

  6. Attitude of other children. "Favorable," "friendly," "liked
      by everybody," "much admired," "popular," etc., 26; "not
      liked," 1; "inspires repugnance," 1; no answer, 1.

  7. Is child a leader? "Yes," 14; "no," or "not particularly,"
      12; doubtful, 5.

  8. Is play life normal? "Yes," 26; "no," 1; "hardly," 1;
      doubtful, 3.

  9. Is child spoiled or vain? "No," 22; "yes," 5; "somewhat," 2;
      no answer, 2.

According to the above data, exceptionally intelligent children are fully as likely to be healthy
as ordinary children; their ability is far more often general than special, they are studious
above the average, really serious faults are not common among them, they are nearly always
socially adaptable, are sought after as playmates and companions, their play life is usually
normal, they are leaders far oftener than other children, and notwithstanding their many really
superior qualities they are seldom vain or spoiled.

It would be greatly to the advantage of such children if their superior ability were more promptly
and fully recognized, and if (under proper medical supervision, of course) they were promoted
as rapidly as their mental development would warrant. Unless they are given the grade of work
which calls forth their best efforts, they run the risk of falling into lifelong habits of
submaximum efficiency. The danger in the case of such children is not over-pressure, but under-pressure.

INTELLIGENCE TESTS AS A BASIS FOR GRADING. Not only in the case of retarded or exceptionally
bright children, but with many others also, intelligence tests can aid in correctly placing
the child in school.

The pupil who enters one school system from another is a case in point. Such a pupil nearly
always suffers a loss of time. The indefensible custom is to grade the newcomer down a little,
because, forsooth, the textbooks he has studied may have differed somewhat from those he is
about to take up, or because the school system from which he comes may be looked upon as inferior.
Teachers are too often suspicious of all other educational methods besides their own. The present
treatment accorded such children, which so often does them injustice and injury, should be
replaced by an intelligence test. The hour of time required for the test is a small matter
in comparison with the loss of a school term by the pupils.

Indeed, it would be desirable to make all promotions on the basis chiefly of intellectual ability.
Hitherto the school has had to rely on tests of information because reliable tests of intelligence
have not until recently been available. As trained Binet examiners become more plentiful, the
information standard will have to give way to the criterion which asks merely that the child
shall be able to do the work of the next higher grade. The brief intelligence test is not only
more enlightening than the examination; it is also more hygienic. The school examination is
often for the child a source of worry and anxiety; the mental test is an interesting and pleasant
experience.

INTELLIGENCE TESTS FOR VOCATIONAL FITNESS. The time is probably not far distant when intelligence
tests will become a recognized and widely used instrument for determining vocational fitness.
Of course, it is not claimed that tests are available which will tell us unerringly exactly
what one of a thousand or more occupations a given individual is best fitted to pursue. But
when thousands of children who have been tested by the Binet scale have been followed out into
the industrial world, and their success in various occupations noted, we shall know fairly
definitely the vocational significance of any given degree of mental inferiority or superiority.
Researches of this kind will ultimately determine the minimum "intelligence quotient" necessary
for success in each leading occupation.

Industrial concerns doubtless suffer enormous losses from the employment of persons whose mental
ability is not equal to the tasks they are expected to perform. The present methods of trying
out new employees, transferring them to simpler and simpler jobs as their inefficiency becomes
apparent, is wasteful and to a great extent unnecessary. A cheaper and more satisfactory method
would be to employ a psychologist to examine applicants for positions and to weed out the unfit.
Any business employing as many as five hundred or a thousand workers, as, for example, a large
department store, could save in this way several times the salary of a well-trained psychologist.

That the industrially inefficient are often of subnormal intelligence has already been demonstrated
in a number of psychological investigations. Of 150 "hoboes" tested under the direction of
the writer by Mr. Knollin, at least 15 per cent belonged to the moron grade of mental deficiency,
and almost as many more were border-line cases. To be sure, a large proportion were found perfectly
normal, and a few even decidedly superior in mental ability, but the ratio of mental deficiency
was ten or fifteen times as high as that holding for the general population. Several had as
low as 9- or 10-year intelligence, and one had a mental level of 7 years. The industrial history
of such subjects, as given by themselves, was always about what the mental level would lead
us to expect--unskilled work, lack of interest in accomplishment, frequent discharge from jobs,
discouragement, and finally the "road."

The above findings have been fully paralleled by Mr. Glenn Johnson and Professor Eleanor Rowland,
of Reed College, who tested 108 unemployed charity cases in Portland, Oregon. Both of these
investigators made use of the Stanford revision of the Binet scale, which is especially serviceable
in distinguishing the upper-grade defectives from normals.

It hardly needs to be emphasized that when charity organizations help the feeble-minded to
float along in the social and industrial world, and to produce and rear children after their
kind, a doubtful service is rendered. A little psychological research would aid the united
charities of any city to direct their expenditures into more profitable channels than would
otherwise be possible.

OTHER USES OF INTELLIGENCE TESTS. Another important use of intelligence tests is in the study
of the factors which influence mental development. It is desirable that we should be able to
guard the child against influences which affect mental development unfavorably; but as long
as these influences have not been sifted, weighed, and measured, we have nothing but conjecture
on which to base our efforts in this direction.

When we search the literature of child hygiene for reliable evidence as to the injurious effects
upon mental ability of malnutrition, decayed teeth, obstructed breathing, reduced sleep, bad
ventilation, insufficient exercise, etc., we are met by endless assertion painfully unsupported
by demonstrated fact. We have, indeed, very little exact knowledge regarding the mental effects
of any of the factors just mentioned. When standardized mental tests have come into more general
use, such influences will be easy to detect wherever they are really present.

Again, the most important question of heredity is that regarding the inheritance of intelligence;
but this is a problem which cannot be attacked at all without some accurate means of identifying
the thing which is the object of study. Without the use of scales for measuring intelligence
we can give no better answer as to the essential difference between a genius and a fool than
is to be found in legend and fiction.

Applying this to school children, it means that without such tests we cannot know to what extent
a child's mental performances are determined by environment and to what extent by heredity.
Is the place of the so-called lower classes in the social and industrial scale the result of
their inferior native endowment, or is their apparent inferiority merely a result of their
inferior home and school training? Is genius more common among children of the educated classes
than among the children of the ignorant and poor? Are the inferior races really inferior, or
are they merely unfortunate in their lack of opportunity to learn?

Only intelligence tests can answer these questions and grade the raw material with which education
works. Without them we can never distinguish the results of our educational efforts with a
given child from the influence of the child's original endowment. Such tests would have told
us, for example, whether the much-discussed "wonder children," such as the Sidis and Wiener
boys and the Stoner girl, owe their precocious intellectual prowess to superior training (as
their parents believe) or to superior native ability. The supposed effects upon mental development
of new methods of mind training, which are exploited so confidently from time to time (e.g.,
the Montessori method and the various systems of sensory and motor training for the feeble-minded),
will have to be checked up by the same kind of scientific measurement.

In all these fields intelligence tests are certain to play an ever-increasing rôle. With the
exception of moral character there is nothing as significant for a child's future as his grade
of intelligence. Even health itself is likely to have less influence in determining success
in life. Although strength and swiftness have always had great survival value among the lower
animals, these characteristics have long since lost their supremacy in man's struggle for existence.
For us the rule of brawn has been broken, and intelligence has become the decisive factor in
success. Schools, railroads, factories, and the largest commercial concerns may be successfully
managed by persons who are physically weak or even sickly. One who has intelligence constantly
measures opportunities against his own strength or weakness and adjusts himself to conditions
by following those leads which promise most toward the realization of his individual possibilities.

All classes of intellects, the weakest as well as the strongest, will profit by the application
of their talents to tasks which are consonant with their ability. When we have learned the
lessons which intelligence tests have to teach, we shall no longer blame mentally defective
workmen for their industrial inefficiency, punish weak-minded children because of their inability
to learn, or imprison and hang mentally defective criminals because they lacked the intelligence
to appreciate the ordinary codes of social conduct.

CHAPTER II

SOURCES OF ERROR IN JUDGING INTELLIGENCE

ARE INTELLIGENCE TESTS SUPERFLUOUS? Binet tells us that he often encountered the criticism
that intelligence tests are superfluous, and that in going to so much trouble to devise his
measuring scale he was forcing an open door. Those who made this criticism believed that the
observant teacher or parent is able to make an offhand estimate of a child's intelligence which
is accurate enough. "It is a stupid teacher," said one, "who needs a psychologist to tell her
which pupils are not intelligent." Every one who uses intelligence tests meets this attitude
from time to time.

This should not be surprising or discouraging. It is only natural that those who are unfamiliar
with the methods of psychology should occasionally question their validity or worth, just as
there are many excellent people who do not "believe in" vaccination against typhoid and small
pox, operations for appendicitis, etc.

There is an additional reason why the applications of psychology have to overcome a good deal
of conservatism and skepticism; namely, the fact that every one, whether psychologically trained
or not, acquires in the ordinary experiences of life a certain degree of expertness in the
observation and interpretation of mental traits. The possession of this little fund of practical
working knowledge makes most people slow to admit any one's claim to greater expertness. When
the astronomer tells us the distance to Jupiter, we accept his statement, because we recognize
that our ordinary experience affords no basis for judgment about such matters. But every one
acquires more or less facility in distinguishing the coarser differences among people in intelligence,
and this half-knowledge naturally generates a certain amount of resistance to the more refined
method of tests.

It should be evident, however, that we need more than the ability merely to distinguish a genius
from a simpleton, just as a physician needs something more than the ability to distinguish
an athlete from a man dying of consumption. It is necessary to have a definite and accurate
diagnosis, one which will differentiate more finely the many degrees and qualities of intelligence.
Just as in the case of physical illness, we need to know not merely that the patient is sick,
but also why he is sick, what organs are involved, what course the illness will run, and what
physical work the patient can safely undertake, so in the case of a retarded child, we need
to know the exact degree of intellectual deficiency, what mental functions are chiefly concerned
in the defect, whether the deficiency is due to innate endowment, to physical illness, or to
faults of education, and what lines of mental activity the child will be able to pursue with
reasonable hope of success. In the diagnosis of a case of malnutrition, the up-to-date physician
does not depend upon general symptoms, but instead makes a blood test to determine the exact
number of red corpuscles per cubic millimeter of blood and the exact percentage of hæmoglobin.
He has learned that external appearances are often misleading. Similarly, every psychologist
who is experienced in the mental examination of school children knows that his own or the teacher's
estimate of a child's intelligence is subject to grave and frequent error.

THE NECESSITY OF STANDARDS. In the first place, in order to judge an individual's intelligence
it is necessary to have in mind some standard as to what constitutes normal intelligence. This
the ordinary parent or teacher does not have. In the case of school children, for example,
each pupil is judged with reference to the average intelligence of the class. But the teacher
has no means of knowing whether the average for her class is above, equal to, or below that
for children in general. Her standard may be too high, too low, vague, mechanical, or fragmentary.
The same, of course, holds in the case of parents or any one else attempting to estimate intelligence
on the basis of common observation.

THE INTELLIGENCE OF RETARDED CHILDREN USUALLY OVERESTIMATED. One of the most common errors
made by the teacher is to overestimate the intelligence of the over-age pupil. This is because
she fails to take account of age differences and estimates intelligence on the basis of the
child's school performance in the grade where he happens to be located. She tends to overlook
the fact that quality of school work is no index of intelligence unless age is taken into account.
The question should be, not, "Is this child doing his school work well?" but rather, "In what
school grade should a child of this age be able to do satisfactory work?" A high-grade imbecile
may do average work in the first grade, and a high-grade moron average work in the third or
fourth grade, provided only they are sufficiently over-age for the grade in question.

Our experience in testing children for segregation in special classes has time and again brought
this fallacy of teachers to our attention. We have often found one or more feeble-minded children
in a class after the teacher had confidently asserted that there was not a single exceptionally
dull child present. In every case where there has been opportunity to follow the later school
progress of such a child the validity of the intelligence test has been fully confirmed.

The following are typical examples of the neglect of teachers to take the age factor into account
when estimating the intelligence of the over-age child:--

    A. R. Girl, age 11; in low second grade. She was able to do
    the work of this grade, not well, but passably. The teacher's
    judgment as to this child's intelligence was "dull but not
    defective." What the teacher overlooked was the fact that she
    had judged the child by a 7-year standard, and that, instead of
    only being able to do the work of the second grade
    indifferently, a child of this age should have been equal to the
    work of the fifth grade. In reality, A. R. is definitely
    feeble-minded. Although she is from a home of average culture,
    is 11 years old, and has attended school five years, she has
    barely the intelligence of the average child of six years.

    D. C. Boy, age 17; in fifth grade. His teacher knew that he
    was dull, but had not thought of him as belonging to the class
    of feeble-minded. She had judged this boy by the 11-year
    standard and had perhaps been further misled by his normal
    appearance and exceptionally satisfactory behavior. The Binet
    test quickly showed that he had a mental level of approximately
    9 years. There is little probability that his comprehension will
    ever surpass that of the average 10-year-old.

    R. A. Boy, age 17; mental age 11; sixth grade; school work
    "nearly average"; teacher's estimate of intelligence "average."
    Test plainly shows this child to be a high-grade moron, or
    border-liner at best. Had attended school regularly 11 years and
    had made 6 grades. Teacher had compared child with his
    12-year-old classmates.

    H. A. Boy, age 14; mental age 9-6; low fourth grade; school
    work "inferior"; teacher's estimate of intelligence "average."
    The teacher blamed the inferior quality of school work to "bad
    home environment." As a matter of fact, the boy's father is
    feeble-minded and the normality of the mother is questionable.
    An older brother is in a reform school. We are perfectly safe in
    predicting that this boy will not complete the eighth grade even
    if he attends school till he is 21 years of age.
    Intelligence and school success are what we should expect of an
    average 9-year-old.
    Teacher blames adenoids and bad teeth for retardation. No doubt
    of child's mental deficiency.

    P. I. Girl, age 8-10; mental age 6-7; has been in first grade
    2½ years; school work "average"; teacher's estimate of
    intelligence "average." The mother and one brother of this girl
    are both feeble-minded. It is of course true that even feeble-minded
    children of 5-year intelligence are able to profit a little from
    drill. Their weakness comes to light in their inability to
    perform higher types of mental activity.

THE INTELLIGENCE OF SUPERIOR CHILDREN USUALLY UNDERESTIMATED. We have already mentioned the
frequent failure of teachers and parents to recognize superior ability.[7] The fallacy here
is again largely due to the neglect of the age factor, but the resulting error is in the opposite
direction from that set forth above. The superior child is likely to be a year or two younger
than the average child of his grade, and is accordingly judged by a standard which is too high.
The following are illustrations:--

[7] See p. 13 ff.

    M. L. Girl, age 11-2; mental age "average adult" (16); sixth
    grade; school work "superior"; teacher's estimate of
    intelligence "average." Teacher credits superior school work to
    "unusual home advantages." Father a college professor. The
    teacher considers the child accelerated in school. In reality
    she ought to be in the second year of high school instead of in
    the sixth grade.
    According to the supplementary information the boy is
    "wonderfully attentive," "studious," and possessed of
    "all-round ability." The estimate of "average intelligence" was
    probably the result of comparing him with classmates who
    averaged about a year older.

    K. R. Girl, age 6-1; mental age 8-5; second grade; school work
    "average"; teacher's estimate of intelligence "superior"; social
    environment "average." Is it not evident that a child from
    ordinary social environment, who does work of average quality in
    the second grade when barely 6 years of age, should be judged
    "very superior" rather than merely "superior" in intelligence?
    The intelligence quotient of this girl is 140, which is not
    reached by more than one child in two hundred. It would be more reasonable to infer
    that these traits are indications of unusually superior
    intelligence.

OTHER FALLACIES IN THE ESTIMATION OF INTELLIGENCE. Another source of error in the teacher's
judgment comes from the difficulty in distinguishing genuine dullness from the mental condition
which results sometimes from unfavorable social environment or lack of training.

    V. P. Boy, age 7. Had attended school one year and had
    profited very little from the instruction. He had learned to
    read very little, spoke chiefly in monosyllables, and seemed
    "queer." The teacher suspected his intelligence and asked for a
    mental examination. The Binet test showed that except for
    vocabulary, which was unusually low, there was practically no
    mental retardation. Inquiry disclosed the fact that the boy's
    parents were uneducated deaf-mutes, and that the boy had
    associated little with other children. Four years later this boy
    was doing fairly well in school, though a year retarded because
    of his unfavorable home environment.

    X. Y. Boy, age 10. Son of a successful business man, he was
    barely able to read in the second reader. The Binet test
    revealed an intelligence level which was absolutely normal. The
    boy was removed to a special class where he could receive
    individual attention, and two years later was found doing good
    work in a regular class of the fifth grade. His bad beginning
    seemed to have been due to an unfavorable attitude toward school
    work, due in turn to lack of discipline in the home, and to the
    fact that because of the father's frequent change of business
    headquarters the boy had never attended one school longer than
    three months.

Another source of error in judging intelligence from common observation is the tendency to
overestimate the intelligence of the sprightly, talkative, sanguine child, and to underestimate
the intelligence of the child who is less emotional, reacts slowly, and talks little. One occasionally
finds a feeble-minded adult, perhaps of only 9- or 10-year intelligence, whose verbal fluency,
mental liveliness, and self-confidence would mislead the offhand judgment of even the psychologist.
One individual of this type, a border-line case at best, was accustomed to harangue street
audiences and had served as "major" in "Kelly's Army," a horde of several hundred unemployed
men who a few years ago organized and started to march from San Francisco to Washington.

BINET'S QUESTIONNAIRE ON TEACHERS' METHODS OF JUDGING INTELLIGENCE.[8] Aroused by the skepticism
so often shown toward his test method, Binet decided to make a little study of the methods
by which teachers are accustomed to arrive at a judgment as to a child's intelligence. Accordingly,
through the coöperation of the director of elementary education in Paris, he secured answers
from a number of teachers to the following questions:--

[8] See p. 169 ff. of reference 2, at end of this book

  1. By what means do you judge the intelligence of your pupils?
  2. How often have you been deceived in your judgments?

About 40 replies were received. Most of the answers to the first question were vague, one-sided,
"verbal," or bookish. Only a few showed much psychological discrimination as to what intelligence
is and what its symptoms are. There was a very general tendency to judge intelligence by success
in one or more of the school studies. Some thought that ability to master arithmetic was a
sure criterion. Others were influenced almost entirely by the pupil's ability to read. One
teacher said that the child who can "read so expressively as to make you feel the punctuation"
is certainly intelligent, an observation which is rather good, as far as it goes. A few judged
intelligence by the pupil's knowledge of such subjects as history and geography, which, as
Binet points out, is to confound intelligence with the ability to memorize. "Memory," says
Binet, is a "great simulator of intelligence." It is a wise teacher who is not deceived by
it. Only a small minority mentioned resourcefulness in play, capacity to adjust to practical
situations, or any other out-of-school criteria.

Some suggested asking the pupil such questions as the following:--

    "Why do you love your parents?" "If it takes three persons seven
    hours to do a piece of work, would it take seven persons any
    longer?" "Which would you rather have, a fourth of a pie, or a
    half of a half?" "Which is heavier, a pound of feathers or a
    pound of lead?" "If you had twenty cents what would you do with
    it?"

A great many based their judgment mainly on the general appearance of the face and eyes. An
"active" or "passive" expression of the eyes was looked upon as especially significant. One
teacher thought that a mere "glance of the eye" was sufficient to display the grade of intelligence.
If the eyes are penetrating, reflective, or show curiosity, the child must be intelligent;
if they are heavy and expressionless, he must be dull. The mobility of countenance came in
for frequent mention, also the shape of the head.

No one will deny that intelligence displays itself to a greater or less extent in the features;
but how, asks Binet, are we going to standardize a "glance of the eye" or an "expression of
curiosity" so that it will serve as an exact measure of intelligence?

The fact is, the more one sees of feeble-minded children, the less reliance one comes to place
upon facial expression as a sign of intelligence. Some children who are only slightly backward
have the general appearance of low-grade imbeciles. On the other hand, not a few who are distinctly
feeble-minded are pretty and attractive. With many such children a ready smile takes the place
of comprehension. If the smile is rather sweet and sympathetic, as is often the case, the observer
is almost sure to be deceived.

As regards the shape of the head, peculiar conformation of the ears, and other "stigmata,"
science long ago demonstrated that these are ordinarily of little or no significance.

In reply to the second question, some teachers stated that they never made a mistake, while
others admitted failure in one case out of three. Still others said, "Once in ten years," "once
in twenty years," "once in a thousand times," etc.

As Binet remarks, the answers to this question are not very enlightening. In the first place,
the teacher as a rule loses sight of the pupil when he has passed from her care, and seldom
has opportunity of finding out whether his later success belies her judgment or confirms it.
Errors go undiscovered for the simple reason that there is no opportunity to check them up.
In the second place, her estimate is so rough that an error must be very great in order to
have any meaning. If I say that a man is six feet and two inches tall, it is easy enough to
apply a measuring stick and prove the correctness or incorrectness of my assertion. But if
I say simply that the man is "rather tall," or "very tall," the error must be very extreme
before we can expose it, particularly since the estimate can itself be checked up only by observation
and not by controlled experiment.

The teachers' answers seem to justify three conclusions:--

1. Teachers do not have a very definite idea of what constitutes intelligence. They tend to
confuse it variously with capacity for memorizing, facility in reading, ability to master arithmetic,
etc. On the whole, their standard is too academic. They fail to appreciate the one-sidedness
of the school's demands upon intelligence.

In a quaintly humorous passage discussing this tendency, Binet characterizes the child in a
class as dénaturé, a French word which we may translate (though rather too literally) as "denatured."
Too often this "denatured" child of the classroom is the only child the teacher knows.

2. In judging intelligence teachers are too easily deceived by a sprightly attitude, a sympathetic
expression, a glance of the eye, or a chance "bump" on the head.

3. Although a few teachers seem to realize the many possibilities of error, the majority show
rather undue confidence in the accuracy of their judgment.

BINET'S EXPERIMENT ON HOW TEACHERS TEST INTELLIGENCE.[9] Finally, Binet had three teachers
come to his laboratory to judge the intelligence of children whom they had never seen before.
Each spent an afternoon in the laboratory and examined five pupils. In each case the teacher
was left free to arrive at a conclusion in her own way. Binet, who remained in the room and
took notes, recounts with playful humor how the teachers were unavoidably compelled to resort
to the much-abused test method, although their attempts at using it were sometimes, from the
psychologist's point of view, amusingly clumsy.

[9] See p. 182 ff. of reference 2 at end of this book.

One teacher, for example, questioned the children about some canals and sluices which were
in the vicinity, asking what their purpose was and how they worked. Another showed the children
some pretty pictures, which she had brought with her for the purpose, and asked questions about
them. Showing the picture of a garret, she asked how a garret differs from an ordinary room.
One teacher asked whether in building a factory it was best to have the walls thick or thin.
As King Edward had just died, another teacher questioned the children about the details of
this event, in order to find out whether they were in the habit of reading the newspapers,
or understood the things they heard others read. Other questions related to the names of the
streets in the neighborhood, the road one should take to reach a certain point in the vicinity,
etc. Binet notes that many of the questions were special, and were only applicable with the
children of this particular school.

The method of proposing the questions and judging the responses was also at fault. The teachers
did not adhere consistently to any definite formula in giving a particular test to the different
children. Instead, the questions were materially altered from time to time. One teacher scored
the identical response differently for two children, giving one child more credit than the
other because she had already judged his intelligence to be superior. In several cases the
examination was needlessly delayed in order to instruct the child in what he did not know.

The examination ended, quite properly for a teacher's examination, with questions about history,
literature, the metric system, etc., and with the recitation of a fable.

A comparison of the results showed hardly any agreement among the estimates of the three teachers.
When questioned about the standard that had been taken in arriving at their conclusions, one
teacher said she had taken the answers of the first pupil as a point of departure, and that
she had judged the other pupils by this one. Another judged all the children by a child of
her acquaintance whom she knew to be intelligent. This was, of course, an unsafe method, because
no one could say how the child taken as an ideal would have responded to the tests used with
the five children.

In summarizing the result of his little experiment, Binet points out that the teachers employed,
as if by instinct, the very method which he himself recommends. In using it, however, they
made numerous errors. Their questions were often needlessly long. Several were "dilemma questions,"
that is, answerable by yes or no. In such cases chance alone will cause fifty per cent of the
answers to be correct. Some of the questions were merely tests of school knowledge. Others
were entirely special, usable only with the children of this particular school on this particular
day. Not all of the questions were put in the same terms, and a given response did not always
receive the same score. When the children responded incorrectly or incompletely, they were
often given help, but not always to the same extent. In other words, says Binet, it was evident
that "the teachers employed very awkwardly a very excellent method."

The above remark is as pertinent as it is expressive. As the statement implies, the test method
is but a refinement and standardization of the common-sense approach. Binet remarks that most
people who inquire into his method of measuring intelligence do so expecting to find something
very surprising and mysterious; and on seeing how much it resembles the methods which common
sense employs in ordinary life, they heave a sigh of disappointment and say, "Is that all?"
Binet reminds us that the difference between the scientific and unscientific way of doing a
thing is not necessarily a difference in the nature of the method; it is often merely a difference
in exactness. Science does the thing better, because it does it more accurately.

It was of course not the purpose of Binet to cast a slur upon the good sense and judgment of
teachers. The teachers who took part in the little experiment described above were Binet's
personal friends. The errors he points out in his entertaining and good-humored account of
the experiment are inherent in the situation. They are the kind of errors which any person,
however discriminating and observant, is likely to make in estimating the intelligence of a
subject without the use of standardized tests.

It is the writer's experience that the teacher's estimate of a child's intelligence is much
more reliable than that of the average parent; more accurate even than that of the physician
who has not had psychological training.

Indeed, it is an exceptional school physician who is able to give any very valuable assistance
to teachers in the classification of mentally exceptional children for special pedagogical
treatment.

This is only to be expected, for the physician has ordinarily had much less instruction in
psychology than the teacher, and of course infinitely less experience in judging the mental
performances of children. Even if graduated from a first-rank medical school, the instruction
he has received in the important subject of mental deficiency has probably been less adequate
than that given to the students of a standard normal school. As a rule, the doctor has no equipment
or special fitness which gives him any advantage over the teacher in acquiring facility in
the use of intelligence tests.

As for parents, it would of course be unreasonable to expect from them a very accurate judgment
regarding the mental peculiarities of their children. The difficulty is not simply that which
comes from lack of special training. The presence of parental affection renders impartial judgment
impossible. Still more serious are the effects of habituation to the child's mental traits.
As a result of such habituation the most intelligent parent tends to develop an unfortunate
blindness to all sorts of abnormalities which exist in his own children.

The only way of escape from the fallacies we have mentioned lies in the use of some kind of
refined psychological procedure. Binet testing is destined to become universally known and
practiced in schools, prisons, reformatories, charity stations, orphan asylums, and even ordinary
homes, for the same reason that Babcock testing has become universal in dairying. Each is indispensable
to its purpose.

CHAPTER III

DESCRIPTION OF THE BINET-SIMON METHOD

ESSENTIAL NATURE OF THE SCALE. The Binet scale is made up of an extended series of tests in
the nature of "stunts," or problems, success in which demands the exercise of intelligence.
As left by Binet, the scale consists of 54 tests, so graded in difficulty that the easiest
lie well within the range of normal 3-year-old children, while the hardest tax the intelligence
of the average adult. The problems are designed primarily to test native intelligence, not
school knowledge or home training. They try to answer the question "How intelligent is this
child?" How much the child has learned is of significance only in so far as it throws light
on his ability to learn more.

Binet fully appreciated the fact that intelligence is not homogeneous, that it has many aspects,
and that no one kind of test will display it adequately. He therefore assembled for his intelligence
scale tests of many different types, some of them designed to display differences of memory,
others differences in power to reason, ability to compare, power of comprehension, time orientation,
facility in the use of number concepts, power to combine ideas into a meaningful whole, the
maturity of apperception, wealth of ideas, knowledge of common objects, etc.

HOW THE SCALE WAS DERIVED. The tests were arranged in order of difficulty, as found by trying
them upon some 200 normal children of different ages from 3 to 15 years. It was found, for
illustration, that a certain test was passed by only a very small proportion of the younger
children, say the 5-year-olds, and that the number passing this test increased rapidly in the
succeeding years until by the age of 7 or 8 years, let us say, practically all the children
were successful. If, in our supposed case, the test was passed by about two thirds to three
fourths of the normal children aged 7 years, it was considered by Binet a test of 7-year intelligence.
In like manner, a test passed by 65 to 75 per cent of the normal 9-year-olds was considered
a test of 9-year intelligence, and so on. By trying out many different tests in this way it
was possible to secure five tests to represent each age from 3 to 10 years (excepting age 4,
which has only four tests), five for age 12, five for 15, and five for adults, making 54 tests
in all.

LIST OF TESTS. The following is the list of tests as arranged by Binet in 1911, shortly before
his untimely death:--

Age 3:
    1. Points to nose, eyes, and mouth.
    2. Repeats two digits.
    3. Enumerates objects in a picture.
    4. Gives family name.
    5. Repeats a sentence of six syllables.

Age 4:
    1. Gives his sex.
    2. Names key, knife, and penny.
    3. Repeats three digits.
    4. Compares two lines.

Age 5:
    1. Compares two weights.
    2. Copies a square.
    3. Repeats a sentence of ten syllables.
    4. Counts four pennies.
    5. Unites the halves of a divided rectangle.

Age 6:
    1. Distinguishes between morning and afternoon.
    2. Defines familiar words in terms of use.
    3. Copies a diamond.
    4. Counts thirteen pennies.
    5. Distinguishes pictures of ugly and pretty faces.

Age 7:
    1. Shows right hand and left ear.
    2. Describes a picture.
    3. Executes three commissions, given simultaneously.
    4. Counts the value of six sous, three of which are double.
    5. Names four cardinal colors.

Age 8:
    1. Compares two objects from memory.
    2. Counts from 20 to 0.
    3. Notes omissions from pictures.
    4. Gives day and date.
    5. Repeats five digits.

Age 9:
    1. Gives change from twenty sous.
    2. Defines familiar words in terms superior to use.
    3. Recognizes all the pieces of money.
    4. Names the months of the year, in order.
    5. Answers easy "comprehension questions."

Age 10:
    1. Arranges five blocks in order of weight.
    2. Copies drawings from memory.
    3. Criticizes absurd statements.
    4. Answers difficult "comprehension questions."
    5. Uses three given words in not more than two sentences.

Age 12:
    1. Resists suggestion.
    2. Composes one sentence containing three given words.
    3. Names sixty words in three minutes.
    4. Defines certain abstract words.
    5. Discovers the sense of a disarranged sentence.

Age 15:
    1. Repeats seven digits.
    2. Finds three rhymes for a given word.
    3. Repeats a sentence of twenty-six syllables.
    4. Interprets pictures.
    5. Interprets given facts.

Adult:
    1. Solves the paper-cutting test.
    2. Rearranges a triangle in imagination.
    3. Gives differences between pairs of abstract terms.
    4. Gives three differences between a president and a king.
    5. Gives the main thought of a selection which he has heard read.

It should be emphasized that merely to name the tests in this way gives little idea of their
nature and meaning, and tells nothing about Binet's method of conducting the 54 experiments.
In order to use the tests intelligently it is necessary to acquaint one's self thoroughly with
the purpose of each test, its correct procedure, and the psychological interpretation of different
types of response.[10]

[10] See Part II of this volume, and References 1 and 29, for discussion and interpretation
of the individual tests.

In fairness to Binet, it should also be borne in mind that the scale of tests was only a rough
approximation to the ideal which the author had set himself to realize. Had his life been spared
a few years longer, he would doubtless have carried the method much nearer perfection.

HOW THE SCALE IS USED. By means of the Binet tests we can judge the intelligence of a given
individual by comparison with standards of intellectual performance for normal children of
different ages. In order to make the comparison it is only necessary to begin the examination
of the subject at a point in the scale where all the tests are passed successfully, and to
continue up the scale until no more successes are possible. Then we compare our subject's performances
with the standard for normal children of the same age, and note the amount of acceleration
or retardation.

Let us suppose the subject being tested is 9 years of age. If he goes as far in the tests as
normal 9-year-old children ordinarily go, we can say that the child has a "mental age" of 9 years,
which in this case is normal (our child being 9 years of age). If he goes only as far as normal
8-year-old children ordinarily go, we say that his "mental age" is 8 years. In like manner,
a mentally defective child of 9 years may have a "mental age" of only 4 years, or a young genius
of 9 years may have a mental age of 12 or 13 years.

SPECIAL CHARACTERISTICS OF THE BINET-SIMON METHOD. Psychologists had experimented with intelligence
tests for at least twenty years before the Binet scale made its appearance. The question naturally
suggests itself why Binet should have been successful in a field where previous efforts had
been for the most part futile. The answer to this question is found in three essential differences
between Binet's method and those formerly employed.

1. The use of age standards. Binet was the first to utilize the idea of age standards, or norms,
in the measurement of intelligence. It will be understood, of course, that Binet did not set
out to invent tests of 10-year intelligence, 6-year intelligence, etc. Instead, as already
explained, he began with a series of tests ranging from very easy to very difficult, and by
trying these tests on children of different ages and noting the percentages of successes in
the various years, he was able to locate them (approximately) in the years where they belonged.

This plan has the great advantage of giving us standards which are easily grasped. To say,
for illustration, that a given subject has a grade of intelligence equal to that of the average
child of 8 years is a statement whose general import does not need to be explained. Previous
investigators had worked with subjects the degree of whose intelligence was unknown, and with
tests the difficulty of which was equally unknown. An immense amount of ingenuity was spent
in devising tests which were used in such a way as to preclude any very meaningful interpretation
of the responses.

The Binet method enables us to characterize the intelligence of a child in a far more definite
way than had hitherto been possible. Current descriptive terms like "bright," "moderately bright,"
"dull," "very dull," "feeble-minded," etc., have had no universally accepted meaning. A child
who is designated by one person as "moderately bright" may be called "very bright" by another
person. The degree of intelligence which one calls "moderate dullness," another may call "extreme
dullness," etc. But every one knows what is meant by the term 8-year mentality, 4-year mentality,
etc., even if he is not able to define these grades of intelligence in psychological terms;
and by ascertaining experimentally what intellectual tasks children of different ages can perform,
we are, of course, able to make our age standards as definite as we please.

Why should a device so simple have waited so long for a discoverer? We do not know. It is of
a class with many other unaccountable mysteries in the development of scientific method. Apparently
the idea of an age-grade method, as this is called, did not come to Binet himself until he
had experimented with intelligence tests for some fifteen years. At least his first provisional
scale, published in 1905, was not made up according to the age-grade plan. It consisted merely
of 30 tests, arranged roughly in order of difficulty. Although Binet nowhere gives any account
of the steps by which this crude and ungraded scale was transformed into the relatively complete
age-grade scale of 1908, we can infer that the original and ingenious idea of utilizing age
norms was suggested by the data collected with the 1905 scale. However the discovery was made,
it ranks, perhaps, from the practical point of view, as the most important in all the history
of psychology.

2. The kind of mental functions brought into play. In the second place, the Binet tests differ
from most of the earlier attempts in that they are designed to test the higher and more complex
mental processes, instead of the simpler and more elementary ones. Hence they set problems
for the reasoning powers and ingenuity, provoke judgments about abstract matters, etc., instead
of attempting to measure sensory discrimination, mere retentiveness, rapidity of reaction,
and the like. Psychologists had generally considered the higher processes too complex to be
measured directly, and accordingly sought to get at them indirectly by correlating supposed
intelligence with simpler processes which could readily be measured, such as reaction time,
rapidity of tapping, discrimination of tones and colors, etc. While they were disputing over
their contradictory findings in this line of exploration, Binet went directly to the point
and succeeded where they had failed.

It is now generally admitted by psychologists that higher intelligence is little concerned
in such elementary processes as those mentioned above. Many of the animals have keen sensory
discrimination. Feeble-minded children, unless of very low grade, do not differ very markedly
from normal children in sensitivity of the skin, visual acuity, simple reaction time, type
of imagery, etc. But in power of comprehension, abstraction, and ability to direct thought,
in the nature of the associative processes, in amount of information possessed, and in spontaneity
of attention, they differ enormously.

3. Binet would test "general intelligence." Finally, Binet's success was largely due to his
abandonment of the older "faculty psychology" which, far from being defunct, had really given
direction to most of the earlier work with mental tests. Where others had attempted to measure
memory attention, sense discrimination, etc., as separate faculties or functions, Binet undertook
to ascertain the general level of intelligence. Others had thought the task easier of accomplishment
by measuring each division or aspect of intelligence separately, and summating the results.
Binet, too, began in this way, and it was only after years of experimentation by the usual
methods that he finally broke away from them and undertook, so to speak, to triangulate the
height of his tower without first getting the dimensions of the individual stones which made it up.

The assumption that it is easier to measure a part, or one aspect, of intelligence than all
of it, is fallacious in that the parts are not separate parts and cannot be separated by any
refinement of experiment. They are interwoven and intertwined. Each ramifies everywhere and
appears in all other functions. The analogy of the stones of the tower does not really apply.
Memory, for example, cannot be tested separately from attention, or sense-discrimination separately
from the associative processes. After many vain attempts to disentangle the various intellective
functions, Binet decided to test their combined functional capacity without any pretense of
measuring the exact contribution of each to the total product. It is hardly too much to say
that intelligence tests have been successful just to the extent to which they have been guided
by this aim.

Memory, attention, imagination, etc., are terms of "structural psychology." Binet's psychology
is dynamic. He conceives intelligence as the sum total of those thought processes which consist
in mental adaptation. This adaptation is not explicable in terms of the old mental "faculties."
No one of these can explain a single thought process, for such process always involves the
participation of many functions whose separate rôles are impossible to distinguish accurately.
Instead of measuring the intensity of various mental states (psycho-physics), it is more enlightening
to measure their combined effect on adaptation. Using a biological comparison, Binet says the
old "faculties" correspond to the separate tissues of an animal or plant, while his own "scheme
of thought" corresponds to the functioning organ itself. For Binet, psychology is the science
of behavior.

BINET'S CONCEPTION OF GENERAL INTELLIGENCE. In devising tests of intelligence it is, of course,
necessary to be guided by some assumption, or assumptions, regarding the nature of intelligence.
To adopt any other course is to depend for success upon happy chance.

However, it is impossible to arrive at a final definition of intelligence on the basis of a-priori
considerations alone. To demand, as critics of the Binet method have sometimes done, that one
who would measure intelligence should first present a complete definition of it, is quite unreasonable.
As Stern points out, electrical currents were measured long before their nature was well understood.
Similar illustrations could be drawn from the processes involved in chemistry physiology, and
other sciences. In the case of intelligence it may be truthfully said that no adequate definition
can possibly be framed which is not based primarily on the symptoms empirically brought to
light by the test method. The best that can be done in advance of such data is to make tentative
assumptions as to the probable nature of intelligence, and then to subject these assumptions
to tests which will show their correctness or incorrectness. New hypotheses can then be framed
for further trial, and thus gradually we shall be led to a conception of intelligence which
will be meaningful and in harmony with all the ascertainable facts.

Such was the method of Binet. Only those unacquainted with Binet's more than fifteen years
of labor preceding the publication of his intelligence scale would think of accusing him of
making no effort to analyze the mental processes which his tests bring into play. It is true
that many of Binet's earlier assumptions proved untenable, and in this event he was always
ready, with exceptional candor and intellectual plasticity, to acknowledge his error and to
plan a new line of attack.

Binet's conception of intelligence emphasizes three characteristics of the thought process:
(1) Its tendency to take and maintain a definite direction; (2) the capacity to make adaptations
for the purpose of attaining a desired end; and (3) the power of auto-criticism.[11]

[11] See Binet and Simon: "L'intelligence des imbeciles," in L'Année Psychologique (1909),
pp. 1-147. The last division of this article is devoted to a discussion of the essential nature
of the higher thought processes, and is a wonderful example of that keen psychological analysis
in which Binet was so gifted.

How these three aspects of intelligence enter into the performances with various tests of the
scale is set forth from time to time in our directions for giving and interpreting the individual
tests.[12] An illustration which may be given here is that of the "patience test," or uniting
the disarranged parts of a divided rectangle. As described by Binet, this operation has the
following elements: "(1) to keep in mind the end to be attained, that is to say, the figure
to be formed; (2) to try different combinations under the influence of this directing idea,
which guides the efforts of the subject even though he may not be conscious of the fact; and
(3) to judge the combination which has been made, to compare it with the model, and to decide
whether it is the correct one."

[12] See especially pages 162 and 238.

Much the same processes are called for in many other of the Binet tests, particularly those
of arranging weights, rearranging dissected sentences, drawing a diamond or square from copy,
finding a sentence containing three given words, counting backwards, etc.

However, an examination of the scale will show that the choice of tests was not guided entirely
by any single formula as to the nature of intelligence. Binet's approach was a many-sided one.
The scale includes tests of time orientation, of three or four kinds of memory, of apperception,
of language comprehension, of knowledge about common objects, of free association, of number
mastery, of constructive imagination, and of ability to compare concepts, to see contradictions,
to combine fragments into a unitary whole, to comprehend abstract terms, and to meet novel
situations.

OTHER CONCEPTIONS OF INTELLIGENCE. It is interesting to compare Binet's conception of intelligence
with the definitions which have been offered by other psychologists. According to Ebbinghaus,
for example, the essence of intelligence lies in comprehending together in a unitary, meaningful
whole, impressions and associations which are more or less independent, heterogeneous, or even
partly contradictory. "Intellectual ability consists in the elaboration of a whole into its
worth and meaning by means of many-sided combination, correction, and completion of numerous
kindred associations.... It is a combination activity."

Meumann offers a twofold definition. From the psychological point of view, intelligence is
the power of independent and creative elaboration of new products out of the material given
by memory and the senses. From the practical point of view, it involves the ability to avoid
errors, to surmount difficulties, and to adjust to environment.

Stern defines intelligence as "the general capacity of an individual consciously to adjust
his thinking to new requirements: it is general adaptability to new problems and conditions
of life."

Spearman, Hart, and others of the English school define intelligence as a "common central factor"
which participates in all sorts of special mental activities. This factor is explained in terms
of a psycho-physiological hypothesis of "cortex energy," "cerebral plasticity," etc.

The above definitions are only to a slight extent contradictory or inharmonious. They differ
mainly in point of view or in the location of the emphasis. Each expresses a part of the truth,
and none all of it. It will be evident that the conception of Binet is broad enough to include
the most important elements in each of the other definitions quoted.

GUIDING PRINCIPLES IN CHOICE AND ARRANGEMENT OF TESTS. In choosing his tests Binet was guided
by the conception of intelligence which we have set forth above. Tests were devised which would
presumably bring into play the various mental processes thought to be concerned in intelligence,
and then these tests were tried out on normal children of different ages. If the percentage
of passes for a given test increased but little or not at all in going from younger to older
children this test was discarded. On the other hand, if the proportion of passes increased
rapidly with age, and if children of a given age, who on other grounds were known to be bright,
passed more frequently than children of the same age who were known to be dull, then the test
was judged a satisfactory test of intelligence. As we have shown elsewhere,[13] practically
all of Binet's tests fulfill these requirements reasonably well, a fact which bears eloquent
testimony to the keen psychological insight of their author.

[13] See p. 55.

In arranging the tests into a system Binet's guiding principle was to find an arrangement of
the tests which would cause an average child of any given age to test "at age"; that is, the
average 5-year-old must show a mental age of 5 years, the average 8-year-old a mental age of
8 years, etc. In order to secure this result Binet found that his data seemed to require the
location of an individual test in that year where it was passed by about two thirds to three
fourths of unselected children.

It was in the assembling of the tests that the most serious faults of the scale had their origin.
Further investigation has shown that a great many of the tests were misplaced as much as one
year, and several of them two years. On the whole, the scale as Binet left it was decidedly
too easy in the lower ranges, and too difficult in the upper. As a result, the average child
of 5 years was caused to test at not far from 6 years, the average child of 12 years not far
from 11. In the Stanford revision an effort has been made to correct this fault, along with
certain other generally recognized imperfections.

SOME AVOWED LIMITATIONS OF THE BINET TESTS. The Binet tests have often been criticized for
their unfitness to perform certain services which in reality they were never meant to render.
This is unfair. We cannot make a just evaluation of the scale without bearing in mind its avowed
limitations.

For example, the scale does not pretend to measure the entire mentality of the subject, but
only general intelligence. There is no pretense of testing the emotions or the will beyond
the extent to which these naturally display themselves in the tests of intelligence. The scale
was not designed as a tool for the analysis of those emotional or volitional aberrations which
are concerned in such mental disorders as hysteria, insanity, etc. These conditions do not
present a progressive reduction of intelligence to the infantile level, and in most of them
other factors besides intelligence play an important rôle. Moreover, even in the normal individual
the fruitfulness of intelligence, the direction in which it shall be applied, and its methods
of work are to a certain extent determined by the extraneous factors of emotion and volition.

It should, nevertheless, be pointed out that defects of intelligence, in a large majority of
cases, also involve disturbances of the emotional and volitional functions. We do not expect
to find perfectly normal emotions or will power of average strength coupled with marked intellectual
deficiency, and as a matter of fact such a combination is rare indeed. In the course of an
examination with the Binet tests, the experienced clinical psychologist is able to gain considerable
insight into the subject's emotional and volitional equipment, even though the method was designed
primarily for another purpose.

A second misunderstanding can be avoided by remembering that the Binet scale does not pretend
to bring to light the idiosyncrasies of special talent, but only to measure the general level
of intelligence. It cannot be used for the discovery of exceptional ability in drawing, painting,
music, mathematics, oratory, salesmanship, etc., because no effort is made to explore the processes
underlying these abilities. It can, therefore, never serve as a detailed chart for the vocational
guidance of children, telling us which will succeed in business, which in art, which in medicine,
etc. It is not a new kind of phrenology. At the same time, as we have already pointed out,
it is capable of bounding roughly the vocational territory in which an individual's intelligence
will probably permit success, nothing else preventing.[14]

[14] See p. 17.

In the third place, it must not be supposed that the scale can be used as a complete pedagogical
guide. Although intelligence tests furnish data of the greatest significance for pedagogical
procedure, they do not suggest the appropriate educational methods in detail. These will have
to be worked out in a practical way for the various grades of intelligence, and at great cost
of labor and patience.

Finally, in arriving at an estimate of a subject's grade of intelligence and his susceptibility
to training, it would be a mistake to ignore the data obtainable from other sources. No competent
psychologist, however ardent a supporter of the Binet method he might be, would recommend such
a policy. Those who accept the method as all-sufficient are as much in error as those who consider
it as no more important than any one of a dozen other approaches. Standardized tests have already
become and will remain by far the most reliable single method for grading intelligence, but
the results they furnish will always need to be interpreted in the light of supplementary information
regarding the subject's personal history, including medical record, accidents, play habits,
industrial efficiency, social and moral traits, school success, home environment, etc. Without
question, however, the improved Binet tests will contribute more than all other data combined
to the end of enabling us to forecast a child's possibilities of future improvement, and this
is the information which will aid most in the proper direction of his education.

CHAPTER IV

NATURE OF THE STANFORD REVISION AND EXTENSION

Although the Binet scale quickly demonstrated its value as an instrument for the classification
of mentally-retarded and otherwise exceptional children, it had, nevertheless, several imperfections
which greatly limited its usefulness. There was a dearth of tests at the higher mental levels,
the procedure was so inadequately defined that needless disagreement came about in the interpretation
of data, and so many of the tests were misplaced as to make the results of an examination more
or less misleading, particularly in the case of very young subjects and those near the adult
level. Without their loyal assistance the investigation could not have been carried through.

Grateful acknowledgment is also made to the many public school teachers and principals for
their generous and invaluable coöperation in furnishing subjects for the tests, and in supplying,
sometimes at considerable cost of labor, the supplementary information which was called for
regarding the pupils tested. Their contribution was made in the interest of educational science,
and without expectation of personal benefits of any kind. Their professional spirit cannot
be too highly commended.

SOURCES OF DATA. Our revision is the result of several years of work, and involved the examination
of approximately 2300 subjects, including 1700 normal children, 200 defective and superior
children, and more than 400 adults.

Tests of 400 of the 1700 normal children had been made by Childs and Terman in 1910-11, and
of 300 children by Trost, Waddle, and Terman in 1911-12. For various reasons, however, the
results of these tests did not furnish satisfactory data for a thoroughgoing revision of the
scale. Accordingly a new investigation was undertaken, somewhat more extensive than the others,
and more carefully planned. Its main features may be described as follows:--

1. The first step was to assemble as nearly as possible all the results which had been secured
for each test of the scale by all the workers of all countries. The result was a large sheet
of tabulated data for each individual test, including percentages passing the test at various
ages, conditions under which the results were secured, method of procedure, etc. After a comparative
study of these data, and in the light of results we had ourselves secured, a provisional arrangement
of the tests was prepared for try-out.

2. In addition to the tests of the original Binet scale, 40 additional tests were included
for try-out. This, it was expected, would make possible the elimination of some of the least
satisfactory tests, and at the same time permit the addition of enough new ones to give at
least six tests, instead of five, for each age group.

3. A plan was then devised for securing subjects who should be as nearly as possible representative
of the several ages. The method was to select a school in a community of average social status,
a school attended by all or practically all the children in the district where it was located.
In order to get clear pictures of age differences the tests were confined to children who were
within two months of a birthday. To avoid accidental selection, all the children within two
months of a birthday were tested, in whatever grade enrolled. Tests of foreign-born children,
however, were eliminated in the treatment of results. There remained tests of approximately
1000 children, of whom 905 were between 5 and 14 years of age.

4. The children's responses were, for the most part, recorded verbatim. This made it possible
to re-score the records according to any desired standard, and thus to fit a test more perfectly
to the age level assigned it.

5. Much attention was given to securing uniformity of procedure. A half-year was devoted to
training the examiners and another half-year to the supervision of the testing. In the further
interests of uniformity all the records were scored by one person (the writer).

METHOD OF ARRIVING AT A REVISION. The revision of the scale below the 14-year level was based
almost entirely on the tests of the above-mentioned 1,000 unselected children. The guiding
principle was to secure an arrangement of the tests and a standard of scoring which would cause
the median mental age of the unselected children of each age group to coincide with the median
chronological age. That is, a correct scale must cause the average child of 5 years to test
exactly at 5, the average child at 6 to test exactly at 6, etc. Or, to express the same fact
in terms of intelligence quotient,[16] a correct scale must give a median intelligence quotient
of unity, or 100 per cent, for unselected children of each age.

[16] The intelligence quotient (often designated as I Q) is the ratio of mental age to chronological
age. (See pp. 65 ff. and 78 ff.)

If the median mental age resulting at any point from the provisional arrangement of tests was
too high or too low, it was only necessary to change the location of certain of the tests,
or to change the standard of scoring, until an order of arrangement and a standard of passing
were found which would throw the median mental age where it belonged. We had already become
convinced, for reasons too involved for presentation here, that no satisfactory revision of
the Binet scale was possible on any theoretical considerations as to the percentage of passes
which an individual test ought to show in a given year in order to be considered standard for
that year.

As was to be expected, the first draft of the revision did not prove satisfactory. The scale
was still too hard at some points, and too easy at others. In fact, three successive revisions
were necessary, involving three separate scorings of the data and as many tabulations of the
mental ages, before the desired degree of accuracy was secured. As finally revised, the scale
gives a median intelligence quotient closely approximating 100 for the unselected children
of each age from 4 to 14.

Since our school children who were above 14 years and still in the grades were retarded left-overs,
it was necessary to base the revision above this level on the tests of adults. These included
30 business men and 150 "migrating" unemployed men tested by Mr. H. E. Knollin, 150 adolescent
delinquents tested by Mr. J. Harold Williams, and 50 high-school students tested by the writer.

The extension of the scale in the upper range is such that ordinarily intelligent adults, little
educated, test up to what is called the "average adult" level. Adults whose intelligence is
known from other sources to be superior are found to test well up toward the "superior adult"
level, and this holds whether the subjects in question are well educated or practically unschooled.
The almost entirely unschooled business men, in fact, tested fully as well as high-school juniors
and seniors.

Figure 1 shows the distribution of mental ages for 62 adults, including the 30 business men
and the 32 high-school pupils who were over 16 years of age. It will be noted that the middle
section of the graph represents the "mental ages" falling between 15 and 17. This is the range
which we have designated as the "average adult" level. Those above 17 are called "superior
adults," those between 13 and 15, "inferior adults." Subjects much over 15 years of age who
test in the neighborhood of 12 years may ordinarily be considered border-line cases.

The following method was employed for determining the validity of a test. The children of each
age level were divided into three groups according to intelligence quotient, those testing
below 90, those between 90 and 109, and those with an intelligence quotient of 110 or above.
The percentages of passes on each individual test at or near that age level were then ascertained
separately for these three groups. If a test fails to show a decidedly higher proportion of
passes in the superior I Q group than in the inferior I Q group, it cannot be regarded as a
satisfactory test of intelligence. On the other hand, a test which satisfies this criterion
must be accepted as valid or the entire scale must be rejected. Henceforth it stands or falls
with the scale as a whole.

When tried out by this method, some of the tests which have been most criticized showed a high
degree of reliability; certain others which have been considered excellent proved to be so
little correlated with intelligence that they had to be discarded.

After making a few necessary eliminations, 90 tests remained, or 36 more than the number included
in the Binet 1911 scale. There are 6 at each age level from 3 to 10, 8 at 12, 6 at 14, 6 at
"average adult," 6 at "superior adult," and 16 alternative tests. The alternative tests, which
are distributed among the different groups, are intended to be used only as substitutes when
one or more of the regular tests have been rendered, by coaching or otherwise, undesirable.[17]

[17] See p. 137 ff. for explanations regarding the calculation of mental age and the use of
alternative tests.

Of the 36 new tests, 27 were added and standardized in the various Stanford investigations.
Two tests were borrowed from the Healy-Fernald series, one from Kuhlmann, one was adapted from
Bonser, and the remaining five were amplifications or adaptations of some of the earlier Binet
tests.

Following is a complete list of the tests of the Stanford revision. Those designated al. are
alternative tests. The guide for giving and scoring the tests is presented at length in Part II
of this volume.

The Stanford revision and extension

Year III. (6 tests, 2 months each.)
    1. Points to parts of body. (3 to 4.)
         Nose; eyes; mouth; hair.
    2. Names familiar objects. (3 to 5.)
         Key, penny, closed knife, watch, pencil.
    3. Pictures, enumeration or better. (At least 3 objects enumerated
       in one picture.)
         (a) Dutch Home; (b) River Scene; (c) Post-Office.
    4. Gives sex.
    5. Gives last name.
    6. Repeats 6 to 7 syllables. (1 to 3.)
   Al. Repeats 3 digits. (1 success in 3 trials. Order correct.)

Year IV. (6 tests, 2 months each.)
    1. Compares lines. (3 trials, no error.)
    2. Discrimination of forms. (Kuhlmann.) (Not over 3 errors.)
    3. Counts 4 pennies. (No error.)
    4. Copies square. (Pencil. 1 to 3.)
    5. Comprehension, 1st degree. (2 to 3.) (Stanford addition.)
         "What must you do": "When you are sleepy?" "Cold?" "Hungry?"
    6. Repeats 4 digits. (1 to 3. Order correct.) (Stanford addition.)
   Al. Repeats 12 to 13 syllables. (1 to 3 absolutely correct, or 2 with
       1 error each.)

Year V. (6 tests, 2 months each.)
    1. Comparison of weights. (2 to 3.)
         3-15; 15-3; 3-15.
    2. Colors. (No error.)
         Red; yellow; blue; green.
    3. Æsthetic comparison. (No error.)
    4. Definitions, use or better. (4 to 6.)
         Chair; horse; fork; doll; pencil; table.
    5. Patience, or divided rectangle. (2 to 3 trials. 1 minute each.)
    6. Three commissions. (No error. Order correct.)
   Al. Age.

Year VI. (6 tests, 2 months each.)
    1. Right and left. (No error.)
         Right hand; left ear; right eye.
    2. Mutilated pictures. (3 to 4 correct.)
    3. Counts 13 pennies. (1 to 2 trials, without error.)
    4. Comprehension, 2d degree. (2 to 3.) "What's the thing for
       you to do":
         (a) "If it is raining when you start to school?"
         (b) "If you find that your house is on fire?"
         (c) "If you are going some place and miss your car?"
    5. Coins. (3 to 4.)
         Nickel; penny; quarter; dime.
    6.

Year VII. (6 tests, 2 months each.)
    1. Fingers. (No error.) Right; left; both.
    2. Pictures, description or better. (Over half of performance
       description:) Dutch Home; River Scene; Post-Office.
    3. Repeats 5 digits. (1 to 3. Order correct.)
    4. Ties bow-knot. (Model shown. 1 minute.) (Stanford addition.)
    5. Gives differences. (2 to 3.)
         Fly and butterfly; stone and egg; wood and glass.
    6. Copies diamond. (Pen. 2 to 3.)
Al. 1. Names days of week. (Order correct. 2 to 3 checks correct.)
Al. 2. Repeats 3 digits backwards. (1 to 3.)

Year VIII. (6 tests, 2 months each.)
    1. Ball and field. (Inferior plan or better.) (Stanford addition.)
    2. Counts 20 to 1. (40 seconds. 1 error allowed.)
    3. Comprehension, 3d degree. (2 to 3.) "What's the thing for you to
       do":
         (a) "When you have broken something which belongs to some one
             else?"
         (b) "When you are on your way to school and notice that you are
             in danger of being tardy?"
         (c) "If a playmate hits you without meaning to do it?"
    4. Gives similarities, two things. (2 to 4.) (Stanford addition.)
         Wood and coal; apple and peach; iron and silver; ship and
         automobile.
    5. Definitions superior to use. (2 to 4.)
         Balloon; tiger; football; soldier.
    6. Vocabulary, 20 words. (Stanford addition. For list of words used,
       see record booklet.)
Al. 1. First six coins. (No error.)
Al. 2. Dictation. ("See the little boy." Easily legible. Pen. 1 minute.)

Year IX. (6 tests, 2 months each.)
    1. Date. (Allow error of 3 days in c, no error in a, b, or d.)
         (a) day of week; (b) month; (c) day of month; (d) year.
    2. Weights. (3, 6, 9, 12, 15. Procedure not illustrated. 2 to 3.)
    3. Makes change. (2 to 3. No coins, paper, or pencil.)
         10--4; 15--12; 25--4.
    4. Repeats 4 digits backwards. (1 to 3.) (Stanford addition.)
    5. Three words. (2 to 3. Oral. 1 sentence or not over 2 coördinate
       clauses.)
         Boy, river, ball; work, money, men; desert, rivers, lakes.
    6. Rhymes. (3 rhymes for two of three words. 1 minute for each part.)
         Day; mill; spring.
Al. 1. Months. (15 seconds and 1 error in naming. 2 checks of 3 correct.)
Al. 2. Stamps, gives total value. (Second trial if individual values are
       known.)

Year X. (6 tests, 2 months each.)
    1. Vocabulary, 30 words. (Stanford addition.)
    2. Absurdities. (4 to 5. Warn. Spontaneous correction allowed.) (Four
       of Binet's, one Stanford.)
    3. Designs. (1 correct, 1 half correct. Expose 10 seconds.)
    4. Reading and report. (8 memories. 35 seconds and 2 mistakes in
       reading.) (Binet's selection.)
    5. Comprehension, 4th degree. (2 to 3. Question may be repeated.)
         (a) "What ought you to say when some one asks your opinion
             about a person you don't know very well?"
         (b) "What ought you to do before undertaking (beginning)
             something very important?"
         (c) "Why should we judge a person more by his actions than by
             his words?"
    6. Names 60 words. (Illustrate with clouds, dog, chair, happy.)
Al. 1. Repeats 6 digits. (1 to 2. Order correct.) (Stanford addition.)
Al. 2. Repeats 20 to 22 syllables. (1 to 3 correct, or 2 with 1 error
       each.)
Al. 3. Form board. (Healy-Fernald Puzzle A. 3 times in 5 minutes.)

Year XII. (8 tests, 3 months each.)
    1. Vocabulary, 40 words. (Stanford addition.)
    2. Abstract words. (3 to 5.)
         Pity; revenge; charity; envy; justice.
    3. Ball and field. (Superior plan.) (Stanford addition.)
    4. Dissected sentences. (2 to 3. 1 minute each.)
    5. Fables. (Score 4; i.e., two correct or the equivalent in half
       credits.) (Stanford addition.)
         Hercules and Wagoner; Maid and Eggs; Fox and Crow;
         Farmer and Stork; Miller, Son, and Donkey.
    6. Repeats 5 digits backwards. (1 to 3.) (Stanford addition.)
    7. Pictures, interpretation. (3 to 4. "Explain this picture.")
         Dutch Home; River Scene; Post-Office; Colonial Home.
    8. Gives similarities, three things. (3 to 5.) (Stanford addition.)
         Snake, cow, sparrow; book, teacher, newspaper; wool, cotton,
         leather; knife-blade, penny, piece of wire; rose, potato,
         tree.

Year XIV. (6 tests, 4 months each.)
    1. Vocabulary, 50 words. (Stanford addition.)
    2. Induction test. (Gets rule by 6th folding.) (Stanford addition.)
    3. President and king. (Power; accession; tenure. 2 to 3.)
    4. Problems of fact. (2 to 3.) (Binet's two and one Stanford
       addition.)
    5. Arithmetical reasoning. (1 minute each. 2 to 3.) (Adapted from
       Bonser.)
    6. Clock. (2 to 3. Error must not exceed 3 or 4 minutes.)
         6.22. 8.10. 2.46.
   Al. Repeats 7 digits. (1 to 2. Order correct.)

"AVERAGE ADULT." (6 tests, 5 months each.)
    1. Vocabulary, 65 words. (Stanford addition.)
    2. Interpretation of fables. (Score 8.) (Stanford addition.)
    3. Difference between abstract words. (3 real contrasts out of 4.)
         Laziness and idleness; evolution and revolution; poverty and
         misery; character and reputation.
    4. Problem of the enclosed boxes. (3 to 4.) (Stanford addition.)
    5. Repeats 6 digits backwards. (1 to 3.) (Stanford addition.)
    6. Code, writes "Come quickly." (2 errors. Omission of dot counts
       half error. Illustrate with "war" and "spy.") (From Healy and
       Fernald.)
Al. 1. Repeats 28 syllables. (1 to 2 absolutely correct.)
Al. 2. Comprehension of physical relations. (2 to 3.) (Stanford addition.)
         Path of cannon ball; weight of fish in water; hitting distant
         mark.

"SUPERIOR ADULT." (6 tests, 6 months each.)
    1. Vocabulary, 75 words. (Stanford addition.)
    2. Binet's paper-cutting test. (Draws, folds, and locates holes.)
    3. Repeats 8 digits. (1 to 3. Order correct.) (Stanford addition.)
    4. Repeats thought of passage heard. (1 to 2.) (Binet's and Wissler's
       selections adapted.)
    5. Repeats 7 digits backwards. (1 to 3.) (Stanford addition.)
    6. Ingenuity test. (2 to 3. 5 minutes each.) (Stanford addition.)

SUMMARY OF CHANGES. A comparison of the above list with either the Binet 1908 or 1911 series
will reveal many changes. On the whole, it differs somewhat more from the Binet 1911 scale
than from that of 1908. Thus, of the 49 tests below the "adult" group in the 1911 scale, 2
are eliminated and 29 are relocated. Of these, 25 are moved downward and 4 upward. The shifts
are as follows:--

    Down 1 year, 18
    Down 2 years, 4
    Down 3 years, 2
    Down 6 years, 1
      Up 1 year,  3
      Up 2 years, 1

Of the adult group in Binet's 1911 series 1 is eliminated, 2 are moved up to "superior adult,"
and 1 is moved up to 14. Accordingly, of Binet's entire 54 tests, we have eliminated 3 and
relocated 32, leaving only 19 in the positions assigned them by Binet. The 3 eliminated are:
repeating 2 digits, resisting suggestion, and "reversed triangle."

The revision is really more extensive than the above figures would suggest, since minor changes
have been made in the scoring of a great many tests in order to make them fit better the locations
assigned them. Throughout the scale the procedure and scoring have been worked over and made
more definite with the idea of promoting uniformity. This phase of the revision is perhaps
more important than the mere relocation of tests. Also, the addition of numerous tests in the
upper ranges of the scale affects very considerably the mental ages above the level of 10 or 11 years.

EFFECTS OF THE REVISION ON THE MENTAL AGES SECURED. The most important effect of the revision
is to reduce the mental ages secured in the lower ranges of the scale, and to raise considerably
the mental ages above 10 or 11 years. This difference also obtains, though to a somewhat smaller
extent, between the Stanford revision and those of Goddard and Kuhlmann.

For example, of 104 adult individuals testing by the Stanford revision between 12 and 14 years,
and who were therefore somewhat above the level of feeble-mindedness as that term is usually
defined, 50 per cent tested below 12 years by the Goddard revision. That the dull and border-line
adults are so much more readily distinguished from the feeble-minded by the Stanford revision
than by other Binet series is due as much to the addition of tests in the upper groups as to
the relocation of existing tests.

On the other hand, the Stanford revision causes young subjects to test lower than any other
version of the Binet scale. At 5 or 6 years the mental ages secured by the Stanford revision
average from 6 to 10 months lower than other revisions yield.

The above differences are more significant than would at first appear. An error of 10 months
in the mental age of a 5-year-old is as serious as an error of 20 months in the case of a 10-year-old.
Stating the error in terms of the intelligence quotient makes it more evident. Thus, an error
of 10 months in the mental age of a 5-year-old means an error of almost 15 per cent in the
intelligence quotient. A scale which tests this much too low would cause the child with a true
intelligence quotient of 75 (which ordinarily means feeble-mindedness or border-line intelligence)
to test at 90, or only slightly below normal.

Three serious consequences came from the too great ease of the original Binet scale at the
lower end, and its too great difficulty at the upper end:--

1. In young subjects the higher grades of mental deficiency were overlooked, because the scale
caused such subjects to test only a little below normal.

2. The proportion of feeble-mindedness among adult subjects was greatly overestimated, because
subjects who were really of the 12- or 13-year mental level could only earn a mental age of
about 11 years.

3. Confusion resulted in efforts to trace the mental growth of either feeble-minded or normal
children. For example, by other versions of the Binet scale an average 5-year-old will show
an intelligence quotient probably not far from 110 or 115; at 9, an intelligence quotient of
about 100; and at 14, an intelligence quotient of about 85 or 90.

By such a scale the true border-line case would test approximately as follows:--

    At age 5, 90 I Q (apparently not far below normal).
    At age 9, 75 I Q (border-line).
    At age 14, 65 I Q (moron deficiency).

On the other hand, re-tests of children by the Stanford revision have been found to yield intelligence
quotients almost identical with those secured from two to four years earlier by the same tests.
Those who graded feeble-minded in the first test graded feeble-minded in the second test: the
dull remained dull, the average remained average, the superior remained superior, and always
in approximately the same degree.[18]

[18] See "Some Problems relating to the Detection of Border-line Cases of Mental Deficiency,"
by Lewis M. Terman and H. E. Knollin, in Journal of Psycho-Asthemes, June, 1916.

It is unnecessary to emphasize further the importance of having an intelligence scale which
is equally accurate at all points. Absolute perfection in this respect is not claimed for the
Stanford revision, but it is believed to be at least free from the more serious errors of other
Binet arrangements.

CHAPTER V

ANALYSIS OF 1000 INTELLIGENCE QUOTIENTS

An extended account of the 1000 tests on which the Stanford revision is chiefly based has been
presented in a separate monograph. This chapter will include only the briefest summary of some
of those results of the investigation which contribute to the intelligent use of the revision.

THE DISTRIBUTION OF INTELLIGENCE. The question as to the manner in which intelligence is distributed
is one of great practical as well as theoretical importance. One of the most vital questions
which can be asked by any nation of any age is the following: "How high is the average level
of intelligence among our people, and how frequent are the various grades of ability above
and below the average?" With the development of standardized tests we are approaching, for
the first time in history, a possible answer to this question.

Most of the earlier Binet studies, however, have thrown little light on the distribution of
intelligence because of their failure to avoid the influence of accidental selection in choosing
subjects for testing. The method of securing subjects for the Stanford revision makes our results
on this point especially interesting.[19] It is believed that the subjects used for this investigation
were as nearly representative of average American-born children as it is possible to secure.

[19] See p. 52 ff. for method used to avoid accidental selection of subjects for the Stanford
investigation.

The intelligence quotients for these 1000 unselected children were calculated, and their distribution
was plotted for the ages separately. The distribution was found fairly symmetrical at each
age from 5 to 14. At 15 the range is on either side of 90 as a median, and at 16 on either
side of 80 as a median. That the 15- and 16-year-olds test low is due to the fact that these
children are left-over retardates and are below average in intelligence.

The I Q's were then grouped in ranges of ten. In the middle group were thrown those from 96 to 105;
the ascending groups including in order the I Q's from 106 to 115, 116 to 125, etc.; correspondingly
with the descending groups. Figure 2 shows the distribution found by this grouping for the
905 children of ages 5 to 14 combined. The subjects above 14 are not included in this curve
because they are left-overs and not representative of their ages.

The distribution for the ages combined is seen to be remarkably symmetrical. The symmetry for
the separate ages was hardly less marked, considering that only 80 to 120 children were tested
at each age. In fact, the range, including the middle 50 per cent of I Q's, was found practically
constant from 5 to 14 years. The tendency is for the middle 50 per cent to fall (approximately)
between 93 and 108.

Three important conclusions are justified by the above facts:--

1. Since the frequency of the various grades of intelligence decreases gradually and at no
point abruptly on each side of the median, it is evident that there is no definite dividing
line between normality and feeble-mindedness, or between normality and genius. Psychologically,
the mentally defective child does not belong to a distinct type, nor does the genius. There
is no line of demarcation between either of these extremes and the so-called "normal" child.
The number of mentally defective individuals in a population will depend upon the standard
arbitrarily set up as to what constitutes mental deficiency. Similarly for genius. It is exactly
as we should undertake to classify all people into the three groups: abnormally tall, normally
tall, and abnormally short.[20]

[20] See Chapter VI for discussion of the significance of various I Q's.

2. The common opinion that extreme deviations below the median are more frequent than extreme
deviations above the median seems to have no foundation in fact. Among unselected school children,
at least, for every child of any given degree of deficiency there is another child as far above
the average I Q as the former is below. We have shown elsewhere the serious consequences of
neglect of this fact.[21]

[21] See p. 12 ff.

3. The traditional view that variability in mental traits becomes more marked during adolescence
is here contradicted, as far as intelligence is concerned, for the distribution of I Q's is
practically the same at each age from 5 to 14. For example, 6-year-olds differ from one another
fully as much as do 14-year-olds.

THE VALIDITY OF THE INTELLIGENCE QUOTIENT. The facts presented above argue strongly for the
validity of the I Q as an expression of a child's intelligence status. This follows necessarily
from the similar nature of the distributions at the various ages. The inference is that a child's
I Q, as measured by this scale, remains relatively constant. Re-tests of the same children
at intervals of two to five years support the inference. Children of superior intelligence
do not seem to deteriorate as they get older, nor dull children to develop average intelligence.
Knowing a child's I Q, we can predict with a fair degree of accuracy the course of his later
development.

The mental age of a subject is meaningless if considered apart from chronological age. It is
only the ratio of retardation or acceleration to chronological age (that is, the I Q) which
has significance.

It follows also that if the I Q is a valid expression of intelligence, as it seems to be, then
the Binet-Simon "age-grade method" becomes transformed automatically into a "point-scale method,"
if one wants to use it that way. As such it is superior to any other point scale that has been
proposed, because it includes a larger number of tests and its points have definite meaning.[22]

[22] For discussion of the supposed advantages of the "point-scale method," see Yerkes and
Bridges: A New Point Scale for Measuring Mental Ability. (Warwick and York, 1915.)

SEX DIFFERENCES. The question as to the relative intelligence of the sexes is one of perennial
interest and great social importance. The ancient hypothesis, the one which dates from the
time when only men concerned themselves with scientific hypotheses, took for granted the superiority
of the male. With the development of individual psychology, however, it was soon found that
as far as the evidence of mental tests can be trusted the average intelligence of women and
girls is as high as that of men and boys.

If we accept this result we are then confronted with the difficult problem of finding an explanation
for the fact that so few of those who have acquired eminence in the various intellectual fields
have been women. Two explanations have been proposed: (1) That women become eminent less often
than men simply for lack of opportunity and stimulus; and (2) that while the average intelligence
of the sexes is the same, extreme variations may be more common in males. It is pointed out
that not only are there more eminent men than eminent women, but that statistics also show
a preponderance of males in institutions for the mentally defective. Accordingly it is often
said that women are grouped closely about the average, while men show a wider range of distribution.

Many hundreds of articles and books of popular or quasi-scientific nature have been written
on one aspect or another of this question of sex difference in intelligence; but all such theoretical
discussions taken together are worth less than the results of one good experiment. Let us see
what our 1000 I Q's have to offer toward a solution of the problem.

1. When the I Q's of the boys and girls were treated separately there was found a small but
fairly constant superiority of the girls up to the age of 13 years. At 14, however, the curve
for the girls dropped below that for boys. This is shown in Figure 3.

The supplementary data, including the teachers' estimates of intelligence on a scale of five,
the teachers' judgments in regard to the quality of the school work, and records showing the
age-grade distribution of the sexes, were all sifted for evidence as to the genuineness of
the apparent superiority of the girls age for age. The results of all these lines of inquiry
support the tests in suggesting that the superiority of the girls is probably real even up
to and including age 14, the apparent superiority of the boys at this age being fully accounted
for by the more frequent elimination of 14-year-old girls from the grades by promotion to the
high school.[23]

[23] It will be remembered that this series of tests did not follow up and test those who had
been promoted to high school.

2. However, the superiority of girls over boys is so slight (amounting at most ages to only
2 to 3 points in terms of I Q) that for practical purposes it would seem negligible. This offers
no support to the opinion expressed by Yerkes and Bridges that "at certain ages serious injustice
will be done individuals by evaluating their scores in the light of norms which do not take
account of sex differences."

3. Apart from the small superiority of girls, the distribution of intelligence in the two sexes
is not different. The supposed wider variation of boys is not found. Girls do not group themselves
about the median more closely than do boys. The range of I Q including the middle fifty per cent
is approximately the same for the two sexes.[24]

[24] For an extensive summary of other data on the variability of the sexes see the article
by Leta S. Hollingworth, in The American Journal of Sociology (January, 1914), pp. 510-30.
It is shown that the findings of others support the conclusions set forth above.

4. When the results for the individual tests were examined, it was found that not many showed
very extreme differences as to the per cent of boys and girls passing. In a few cases, however,
the difference was rather marked.

The boys were decidedly better in arithmetical reasoning, giving differences between a president
and a king, solving the form board, making change, reversing hands of clock, finding similarities,
and solving the "induction test." The girls were superior in drawing designs from memory, æsthetic
comparison, comparing objects from memory, answering the "comprehension questions," repeating
digits and sentences, tying a bow-knot, and finding rhymes.

Accordingly, our data, which for the most part agree with the results of others, justify the
conclusion that the intelligence of girls, at least up to 14 years, does not differ materially
from that of boys either as regards the average level or the range of distribution. It may
still be argued that the mental development of boys beyond the age of 14 years lasts longer
and extends farther than in the case of girls, but as a matter of fact this opinion receives
little support from such tests as have been made on men and women college students.

The fact that so few women have attained eminence may be due to wholly extraneous factors,
the most important of which are the following: (1) The occupations in which it is possible
to achieve eminence are for the most part only now beginning to open their doors to women.
Women's career has been largely that of home-making, an occupation in which eminence, in the
strict sense of the word, is impossible. (2) Even of the small number of women who embark upon
a professional career, a majority marry and thereafter devote a fairly large proportion of
their energy to bearing and rearing children. (3) Both the training given to girls and the
general atmosphere in which they grow up are unfavorable to the inculcation of the professional
point of view, and as a result women are not spurred on by deep-seated motives to constant
and strenuous intellectual endeavor as men are. (4) It is also possible that the emotional
traits of women are such as to favor the development of the sentiments at the expense of innate
intellectual endowment.

INTELLIGENCE OF THE DIFFERENT SOCIAL CLASSES. Of the 1000 children, 492 were classified by
their teachers according to social class into the following five groups: very inferior, inferior,
average, superior, and very superior. A comparative study was then made of the distribution
of I Q's for these different groups.[25]

[25] The results of this comparison have been set forth in detail in the monograph of source
material and some of the conclusions have been set forth on p. 115 ff. of the present volume.

The data may be summarized as follows:--

    1. The median I Q for children of the superior social class is
    about 7 points above, and that of the inferior social class
    about 7 points below, the median I Q of the average social
    group. This means that by the age of 14 inferior class children
    are about one year below, and superior class children one year
    above, the median mental age for all classes taken together.

    2. That the children of the superior social classes make a
    better showing in the tests is probably due, for the most part,
    to a superiority in original endowment. This conclusion is
    supported by five supplementary lines of evidence: (a) the
    teachers' rankings of the children according to intelligence;
    (b) the age-grade progress of the children; (c) the quality
    of the school work; (d) the comparison of older and younger
    children as regards the influence of social environment; and
    (e) the study of individual cases of bright and dull children
    in the same family.

    3. In order to facilitate comparison, it is advisable to express
    the intelligence of children of all social classes in terms of
    the same objective scale of intelligence. This scale should be
    based on the median for all classes taken together.

    4. As regards their responses to individual tests, our children
    of a given social class were not distinguishable from children
    of the same intelligence in any other social class.

THE RELATION OF THE I Q TO THE QUALITY OF THE CHILD'S SCHOOL WORK. The school work of 504 children
was graded by the teachers on a scale of five grades: very inferior, inferior, average, superior,
and very superior. When this grouping was compared with that made on the basis of I Q, fairly
close agreement was found. However, in about one case out of ten there was rather serious disagreement;
a child, for example, would be rated as doing average school work when his I Q would place
him in the very inferior intelligence group.

When the data were searched for explanations of such disagreements it was found that most of
them were plainly due to the failure of teachers to take into account the age of the child
when grading the quality of his school work.[26] When allowance was made for this tendency
there were no disagreements which justified any serious suspicion as to the accuracy of the
intelligence scale. Minor disagreements may, of course, be disregarded, since the quality of
school work depends in part on other factors than intelligence, such as industry, health, regularity
of attendance, quality of instruction, etc.

[26] See p. 24 ff.

THE RELATION BETWEEN I Q AND GRADE PROGRESS. This comparison, which was made for the entire
1000 children, showed a fairly high correlation, but also some astonishing disagreements. Nine-year
intelligence was found all the way from grade 1 to grade 7, inclusive; 10-year intelligence
all the way from grade 2 to grade 7; and 12-year intelligence all the way from grade 3 to grade 8.
Plainly the school's efforts at grading fail to give homogeneous groups of children as regards
mental ability. On the whole, the grade location of the children did not fit their mental ages
much better than it did their chronological ages.

When the data were examined, it was found that practically every child whose grade failed to
correspond fairly closely with his mental age was either exceptionally bright or exceptionally
dull. Those who tested between 96 and 105 I Q were never seriously misplaced in school. The
very dull children, however, were usually located from one to three grades above where they
belonged by mental age, and the duller the child the more serious, as a rule, was the misplacement.
On the other hand, the very bright children were nearly always located from one to three grades
below where they belonged by mental age, and the brighter the child the more serious the school's
mistake. The child of 10-year mental age in the second grade, for example, is almost certain
to be about 7 or 8 years old; the child of 10-year intelligence in the sixth grade is almost
certain to be 13 to 15 years of age.

All this is due to one fact, and one alone: the school tends to promote children by age rather
than ability. The bright children are held back, while the dull children are promoted beyond
their mental ability. The retardation problem is exactly the reverse of what we have thought
it to be. It is the bright children who are retarded, and the dull children who are accelerated.

The remedy is to be sought in differentiated courses (special classes) for both kinds of mentally
exceptional children. Just as many special classes are needed for superior children as for
the inferior. The social consequences of suitable educational advantages for children of superior
ability would no doubt greatly exceed anything that could possibly result from the special
instruction of dullards and border-line cases.[27]

[27] See Chapter VI for further discussion of the school progress possible to children of various
I Q's.

Special study of the I Q's between 70 and 79 revealed the fact that a child of this grade of
intelligence never does satisfactory work in the grade where he belongs by chronological age.
By the time he has attended school four or five years, such a child is usually found doing
"very inferior" to "average" work in a grade from two to four years below his age.

On the other hand, the child with an I Q of 120 or above is almost never found below the grade
for his chronological age, and occasionally he is one or two grades above. Wherever located,
his work is always "superior" or "very superior," and the evidence suggests strongly that it
would probably remain so even if extra promotions were granted.

CORRELATION BETWEEN I Q AND THE TEACHERS' ESTIMATES OF THE CHILDREN'S INTELLIGENCE. By the
Pearson formula the correlation found between the I Q's and the teachers' rankings on a scale
of five was .48. This is about what others have found, and is both high enough and low enough
to be significant. That it is moderately high in so far corroborates the tests. That it is
not higher means that either the teachers or the tests have made a good many mistakes.

When the data were searched for evidence on this point, it was found, as we have shown in Chapter II,
that the fault was plainly on the part of the teachers. The serious mistakes were nearly all
made with children who were either over age or under age for their grade, mostly the former.
In estimating children's intelligence, just as in grading their school success, the teachers
often failed to take account of the age factor. For example, the child whose mental age was,
say, two years below normal, and who was enrolled in a class with children about two years
younger than himself, was often graded "average" in intelligence.

The tendency of teachers is to estimate a child's intelligence according to the quality of
his school work in the grade where he happens to be located. This results in overestimating
the intelligence of older, retarded children, and underestimating the intelligence of the younger,
advanced children. The disagreements between the tests and the teachers' estimates are thus
found, when analyzed, to confirm the validity of the test method rather than to bring it under
suspicion.

THE VALIDITY OF THE INDIVIDUAL TESTS. The validity of each test was checked up by measuring
it against the scale as a whole in the manner described on p. 55. For example, if 10-year-old
children having 11-year intelligence succeed with a given test decidedly better than 10-year-old
children who have 9-year intelligence, then either this test must be accepted as valid or the
scale as a whole must be rejected. Since we know, however, that the scale as a whole has at
least a reasonably high degree of reliability, this method becomes a sure and ready means of
judging the worth of a test.

When the tests were tried out in this way it was found that some of those which have been most
criticized have in reality a high correlation with intelligence. Among these are naming the
days of the week, giving the value of stamps, counting thirteen pennies, giving differences
between president and king, finding rhymes, giving age, distinguishing right and left, and
interpretation of pictures. Others having a high reliability are the vocabulary tests, arithmetical
reasoning, giving differences, copying a diamond, giving date, repeating digits in reverse
order, interpretation of fables, the dissected sentence test, naming sixty words, finding omissions
in pictures, and recognizing absurdities.

Among the somewhat less satisfactory tests are the following: repeating digits (direct order),
naming coins, distinguishing forenoon and afternoon, defining in terms of use, drawing designs
from memory, and æsthetic comparison. Binet's "line suggestion" test correlated so little with
intelligence that it had to be thrown out. The same was also true of two of the new tests which
we had added to the series for try-out.

Tests showing a medium correlation with the scale as a whole include arranging weights, executing
three commissions, naming colors, giving number of fingers, describing pictures, naming the
months, making change, giving superior definitions, finding similarities, reading for memories,
reversing hands of clock, defining abstract words, problems of fact, bow-knot, induction test,
and comprehension questions.

A test which makes a good showing on this criterion of agreement with the scale as a whole
becomes immune to theoretical criticisms. Whatever it appears to be from mere inspection, it
is a real measure of intelligence. Henceforth it stands or falls with the scale as a whole.

The reader will understand, of course, that no single test used alone will determine accurately
the general level of intelligence. A great many tests are required; and for two reasons: (1)
because intelligence has many aspects; and (2) in order to overcome the accidental influences
of training or environment. If many tests are used no one of them need show more than a moderately
high correlation with the scale as a whole. As stated by Binet, "Let the tests be rough, if
there are only enough of them."

CHAPTER VI

THE SIGNIFICANCE OF VARIOUS INTELLIGENCE QUOTIENTS

FREQUENCY OF DIFFERENT DEGREES OF INTELLIGENCE. Before we can interpret the results of an examination
it is necessary to know how frequently an I Q of the size found occurs among unselected children.
Our tests of 1000 unselected children enable us to answer this question with some degree of
definiteness. A study of these 1000 I Q's shows the following significant facts:--

  The lowest   1 % go to 70 or below, the highest   1 % reach 130 or above
   "    "      2 %  "  " 73  "   "      "    "      2 %   "   128  "   "
   "    "      3 %  "  " 76  "   "      "    "      3 %   "   125  "   "
   "    "      5 %  "  " 78  "   "      "    "      5 %   "   122  "   "
   "    "     10 %  "  " 85  "   "      "    "     10 %   "   116  "   "
   "    "     15 %  "  " 88  "   "      "    "     15 %   "   113  "   "
   "    "     20 %  "  " 91  "   "      "    "     20 %   "   110  "   "
   "    "     25 %  "  " 92  "   "      "    "     25 %   "   108  "   "
   "    "  33+1/3%  "  " 95  "   "      "    "  33+1/3%   "   106  "   "

Or, to put some of the above facts in another form:--

  The child reaching          110 is equaled or excelled by 20 out of 100
   "    "       "    (about)  115 "     "    "     "     "  10  "  "   "
   "    "       "       "     125 "     "    "     "     "   3  "  "   "
   "    "       "       "     130 "     "    "     "     "   1  "  "   "

Conversely, we may say regarding the subnormals that:--

  The child testing at (about) 90 is equaled or excelled by 80 out of 100
   "    "      "    "     "    85 "     "    "     "     "  90  "  "   "
   "    "      "    "     "    75 "     "    "     "     "  97  "  "   "
   "    "      "    "     "    70 "     "    "     "     "  99  "  "   "

CLASSIFICATION OF INTELLIGENCE QUOTIENTS. What do the above I Q's imply in such terms as feeble-mindedness,
border-line intelligence, dullness, normality, superior intelligence genius, etc.? When we
use these terms two facts must be borne in mind: (1) That the boundary lines between such groups
are absolutely arbitrary, a matter of definition only; and (2) that the individuals comprising
one of the groups do not make up a homogeneous type.

Nevertheless, since terms like the above are convenient and will probably continue to be used,
it is desirable to give them as much definiteness as possible. On the basis of the tests we
have made, including many cases of all grades of intelligence, the following suggestions are
offered for the classification of intelligence quotients:--

    I Q         Classification

    Above 140     "Near" genius or genius.
      120-140     Very superior intelligence.
      110-120     Superior intelligence.
       90-110     Normal, or average, intelligence.
       80- 90     Dullness, rarely classifiable as feeble-mindedness.
       70- 80     Border-line deficiency, sometimes classifiable as
                    dullness, often as feeble-mindedness.
     Below 70     Definite feeble-mindedness.

Of the feeble-minded, those between 50 and 70 I Q include most of the morons (high, middle,
and low), those between 20 or 25 and 50 are ordinarily to be classed as imbeciles, and those
below 20 or 25 as idiots. According to this classification the adult idiot would range up to
about 3-year intelligence as the limit, the adult imbecile would have a mental level between
3 and 7 years, and the adult moron would range from about 7-year to 11-year intelligence.

It should be added, however, that the classification of I Q's for the various sub-grades of
feeble-mindedness is not very secure, for the reason that the exact curves of mental growth
have not been worked out for such grades. As far as the public schools are concerned this does
not greatly matter, as they never enroll idiots and very rarely even the high-grade imbecile.
School defectives are practically all of the moron and border-line grades, and these it is
important teachers should be able to recognize. The following discussions and illustrative
cases will perhaps give a fairly definite idea of the significance of various grades of intelligence.[28]

[28] The clinical descriptions to be given are not complete and are designed merely to aid
the examiner in understanding the significance of intelligence quotients found.

FEEBLE-MINDEDNESS (RARELY ABOVE 75 I Q.) There are innumerable grades of mental deficiency
ranging from somewhat below average intelligence to profound idiocy. In the literal sense every
individual below the average is more or less mentally weak or feeble. Only a relatively small
proportion of these, however, are technically known as feeble-minded. It is therefore necessary
to set forth the criterion as to what constitutes feeble-mindedness in the commonly accepted
sense of that word.

The definition in most general use is the one framed by the Royal College of Physicians and
Surgeons of London, and adopted by the English Royal Commission on Mental Deficiency. It is
substantially as follows:--

A feeble-minded person is one who is incapable, because of mental defect existing from birth
or from an early age, (a) of competing on equal terms with his normal fellows; or (b) of managing
himself or his affairs with ordinary prudence.

Two things are to be noted in regard to this definition: In the first place, it is stated in
terms of social and industrial efficiency. Such efficiency, however, depends not merely on
the degree of intelligence, but also on emotional, moral, physical, and social traits as well.
This explains why some individuals with I Q somewhat below 75 can hardly be classed as feeble-minded
in the ordinary sense of the term, while others with I Q a little above 75 could hardly be
classified in any other group.

In the second place, the criterion set up by the definition is not very definite because of
the vague meaning of the expression "ordinary prudence." Even the expression "competing on
equal terms" cannot be taken literally, else it would include also those who are merely dull.
It is the second part of the definition that more nearly expresses the popular criterion, for
as long as an individual manages his affairs in such a way as to be self-supporting, and in
such a way as to avoid becoming a nuisance or burden to his fellowmen, he escapes the institutions
for defectives and may pass for normal.

The most serious defect of the definition comes from the lax interpretation of the term "ordinary
prudence," etc. The popular standard is so low that hundreds of thousands of high grade defectives
escape identification as such. Moreover, there are many grades of severity in social and industrial
competition. For example, most of the members of such families as the Jukes, the Nams, the
Hill Folk, and the Kallikaks are able to pass as normal in their own crude environment, but
when compelled to compete with average American stock their deficiency becomes evident. It
is therefore necessary to supplement the social criterion with a more strictly psychological one.

For this purpose there is nothing else as significant as the I Q. All who test below 70 I Q
by the Stanford revision of the Binet-Simon scale should be considered feeble-minded, and it
is an open question whether it would not be justifiable to consider 75 I Q as the lower limit
of "normal" intelligence. Certainly a large proportion falling between 70 and 75 can hardly
be classed as other than feeble-minded, even according to the social criterion.

Examples of feeble-minded school children

    F. C. Boy, age 8-6; mental age 4-2; I Q approximately 50. From
    a very superior home. Has had the best medical care and other
    attention. Attended a private kindergarten until rejected
    because he required so much of the teacher's time and appeared
    uneducable. Will probably develop to about the 6- or 7-year
    mental level. High grade imbecile. Has since been committed to a
    state institution. Cases as low as F. C. very rarely get into
    the public schools.

    R. W. Boy, age 13-10; mental age 7-6; I Q approximately 55.
    Home excellent. Is pubescent. Because of age and maturity has
    been promoted to the third grade, though he can hardly do the
    work of the second. Has attended school more than six years.
    Will probably never develop much if any beyond 8 years, and will
    never be self-supporting. Low-grade moron.

    M. S. Girl, age 7-6; mental age 4-6; I Q 60. Father a
    gardener, home conditions and medical attention fair. Has twice
    attempted first grade, but without learning to read more than a
    few words. In each case teacher requested parents to withdraw
    her. "Takes" things. Is considered "foolish" by the other
    children. Will probably never develop beyond a mental level of
    8 years.

    R. M. Boy, age 15; mental age 9; I Q 60. Decidedly superior
    home environment and care. After attending school eight years is
    in fifth grade, though he cannot do the work of the fourth
    grade. Parents unable to teach him to respect property. Boys
    torment him and make his life miserable. At middle-moron level
    and has probably about reached the limit of his development. Has
    since been committed to a state institution.

    S. M. Girl, age 19-2; mental age 10; I Q approximately 65 (not
    counting age beyond 16). From very superior family. Has
    attended public and private schools twelve years and has been
    promoted to seventh grade, where she cannot do the work. Appears
    docile and childlike, but is subject to spells of disobedience
    and stubbornness. Did not walk until 4 years old. Plays with
    young children. Susceptible to attention from men and has to be
    constantly guarded. Writing excellent, knows the number
    combinations, but missed all the absurdities and has the
    vocabulary of an average 10-year-old. The type from which
    prostitutes often come.

    R. H. Boy, age 14; mental age 8-4; I Q 65. Father Irish,
    mother Spanish. Family comfortable and home care average. Has
    attended school eight years and is unable to do fourth-grade
    work satisfactorily. Health excellent and attendance regular.
    Reads in fourth reader without expression and with little
    comprehension of what is read. Fair skill in number
    combinations. Writing and drawing very poor. Cannot use a ruler.
    Has no conception of an inch.

    R. H. is described as high-tempered, irritable, lacking in
    physical activity, clumsy, and unsteady. Plays little. Just
    "stands around." Indifferent to praise or blame, has little
    sense of duty, plays underhand tricks. Is slow, absent-minded,
    easily confused, in thought, never shows appreciation or
    interest. So apathetic that he does not hear commands. Voice
    droning. Speech poor in colloquial expressions.

    Three years later, at age of 17, was in a special class
    attempting sixth-grade work. Reported as doing "absolutely
    nothing" in that grade. Still sullen, indifferent, and slow in
    grasping directions, and lacking in play interests. "No
    apperception of anything, but has mastered such mechanical
    things as reading (calling the words) and the fundamentals in
    arithmetic."

    In school work, moral traits, and out-of-school behavior R. H.
    shows himself to be a typical case of moron deficiency.

    I. M. Girl, age 14-2; mental age 9; I Q approximately 65.
    Father a laborer. Does unsatisfactory work in fourth grade.
    Plays with little girls. A menace to the morals of the school
    because of her sex interests and lack of self-restraint. Rather
    good-looking if one does not hunt for appearances of
    intelligence. Mental reactions intolerably slow. Will develop
    but little further and will always pass as feeble-minded in any
    but the very lowest social environment.

    G. V. Boy, age 10; mental age 6-4; I Q 65. Father Spanish,
    mother English. Family poor but fairly respectable. Brothers and
    sisters all retarded. In high first grade. Work all very poor
    except writing, drawing, and hand work, in all of which he
    excels. Is quiet and inactive, lacks self-confidence, and plays
    little. Mentally slow, inert, "thick," and inattentive. Health
    fair.

    Three years later G. V. was in the low third grade and still
    doing extremely poor work in everything except manual training,
    drawing, and writing. Is not likely ever to go beyond the fourth
    or fifth grade however long he remains in school.

    V. J. Girl, age 11-6; mental age 8; I Q 70. Has been tested
    three times in the last five years, always with approximately
    the same result in terms of I Q. Home fair to inferior. Has been
    in a special class two years and in school altogether nearly six
    years. Is barely able to do third-grade work. Her
    feeble-mindedness is recognized by teachers and by other pupils.
    Belongs at about middle-moron to high-moron level.

    A. W. Boy, age 9-4; mental age 7; I Q 75. A year and a half
    ago he tested at 6-2. From superior family, brothers of very
    superior intelligence. In school three years and has made about
    a grade and a half. Has higher I Q than V. J. described above,
    but his deficiency is fully as evident. Is generally recognized
    as mentally defective. Slyly abstracted one of the pennies used
    in the test and slipped it into his pocket. Has caused much
    trouble at school by puncturing bicycle tires. High-grade moron.

    A. C. Boy, age 12; mental age 8-5; I Q 70. From Portuguese
    family of ten children. Has a feeble-minded brother. Parents in
    comfortable circumstances and respectable. A. C. has attended
    school regularly since he was 6 years old. Trying unsuccessfully
    to do the work of the fourth grade. Reads poorly in the third
    reader. Hesitates, repeats, miscalls words, and never gets the
    thought. Writes about like a first-grade pupil. Cannot solve
    such simple problems as "How many marbles can you buy for ten
    cents if one marble costs five cents?" even when he has marbles
    and money in his hands. Described by teacher as "mentally slow
    and inert, inattentive, easily distracted, memory poor, ideas
    vague and often absurd, does not appreciate stories, slow at
    comprehending commands." Is also described as "unruly,
    boisterous, disobedient, stubborn, and lacking sense of
    propriety. Tattles."

    Three years later, at age of 15, was in a special class and was
    little if any improved. He had, however, learned the mechanics
    of reading and had mastered the number combinations.
    Deficiencies described as "of wide range." Conduct, however, had
    improved. Was "working hard to get on."

    A. C. must be considered definitely feeble-minded.

    H. S. Boy, age 11; mental age 8-3; I Q approximately 75. At
    8 years tested at 6. Parents highly educated, father a scholar.
    Brother and sister of very superior intelligence. Started to
    school at 7, but was withdrawn because of lack of progress.
    Started again at 8 and is now doing poor work in the second
    grade. Weakly and nervous. Painfully aware of his inability to
    learn. During the test keeps saying, "I tried anyway," "It's all
    I can do if I try my best, ain't it?" etc. Regarded defective by
    other children. Will probably never be able to do work beyond
    the fourth or fifth grade and is not likely to develop above the
    11-year level, if as high.

    I. S. Boy, age 9-6; mental age 7; I Q 75. German parentage.
    Started to school at 6. Now in low second grade and unable to do
    the work. Health good. Inattentive, mentally slow and inert,
    easily distracted, speech is monotone. Equally poor in reading,
    writing, and numbers. I. S. is described as quiet, sullen,
    indifferent, lazy, and stubborn. Plays little.

    Three years later had advanced from low second to low fourth
    grade, but was as poor as ever in his school work. "Miscalls the
    simplest words." Moral traits unsatisfactory. May reach sixth or
    seventh grade if he remains in school long enough.

    I. S. learned to walk at 2 years and to talk at 3.

The above are cases of such marked deficiency that there could be no disagreement among competent
judges in classifying them in the group of "feeble-minded." All are definitely institutional
cases. It is a matter of record, however, that one of the cases, H. S., was diagnosed by a
physician (without test) as "backward but not a defective." and with the added encouragement
that "the backwardness will be outgrown." Of course the reverse is the case; the deficiency
is becoming more and more apparent as the boy approaches the age where more is expected of him.

In at least three of the above cases (S. M., I. S., and I. M.) the teachers had not identified
the backwardness as feeble-mindedness. Not far from 2 children out of 100, or 2 out of 1000,
in the average public school are as defective as some of those just described. Teachers get
so accustomed to seeing a few of them in every group of 200 or 300 pupils that they are likely
to regard them as merely dull,--"dreadfully dull," of course,--but not defective.

Children like these, for their own good and that of other pupils, should be kept out of the
regular classes. They will rarely be equal to the work of the fifth grade, however long they
attend school. They will make a little progress in a well-managed special class, but with the
approach of adolescence, at latest, the State should take them into custodial care for its
own protection.

BORDER-LINE CASES (USUALLY BETWEEN 70 AND 80 I Q). The border-line cases are those which fall
near the boundary generally recognized as such and the higher group usually classed as normal
but dull. They are the doubtful cases, the ones we are always trying (rarely with success)
to restore to normality.

It must be emphasized, however, that this doubtful group is not marked off by definite I Q
limits. Some children with I Q as high as 75 or even 80 will have to be classified as feeble-minded;
some as low as 70 I Q may be so well endowed in other mental traits that they may manage as
adults to get along fairly well in a simple environment. The ability to compete with one's
fellows in the social and industrial world does not depend upon intelligence alone. Such factors
as moral traits, industry, environment to be encountered, personal appearance, and influential
relatives are also involved. Two children classified above as feeble-minded had an I Q as high
as 75. In these cases the emotional, moral, or physical qualities were so defective as to render
a normal social life out of the question. This is occasionally true even with an I Q as high
as 80. Some of the border-line cases, with even less intelligence, may be so well endowed in
other mental traits that they are capable of becoming dependable unskilled laborers, and of
supporting a family after a fashion.

Examples of border-line deficiency

    S. F. Girl, age 17; mental age 11-6; I Q approximately 72
    (disregarding age above 16 years). Father intelligent; mother
    probably high-grade defective. Lives in a good home with aunt,
    who is a woman of good sense and skillful in her management of
    the girl. S. F. has attended excellent schools for eleven years
    and has recently been promoted to the seventh grade. The teacher
    admits, however, that she cannot do the work of that grade, but
    says, "I haven't the heart to let her fail in the sixth grade
    for the third time." She studies very hard and says she wants to
    become a teacher! At the time the test was made she was actually
    studying her books from two to three hours daily at home. The
    aunt, who is very intelligent, had never thought of this girl as
    feeble-minded, and had suffered much concern and humiliation
    because of her inability to teach her to conduct herself
    properly toward men and not to appropriate other people's
    property.

    S. F. is ordinarily docile, but is subject to fits of anger and
    obstinacy. She finally determined to leave her home, threatening
    to take up with a man unless allowed to work elsewhere. Since
    then she has been tried out in several families, but after a
    little while in a place she flies into a rage and leaves. She is
    a fairly capable houseworker when she tries.

    This young woman is feeble-minded and should be classed as such.
    She is listed here with the border-line cases simply for the
    reason that she belongs to a group whose mental deficiency is
    almost never recognized without the aid of a psychological test.
    Probably no physician could be found who would diagnose the
    case, on the basis of a medical examination alone, as one of
    feeble-mindedness.

    F. H. Boy, age 16-6; mental age 11-5; I Q approximately 72
    (disregarding age above 16 years). Tested for three successive
    years without change of more than four points in I Q. Father a
    laborer, dull, subject to fits of rage, and beats the boy.
    Mother not far from border-line. F. H. has always had the best
    of school advantages and has been promoted to the seventh grade.
    Is really about equal to fifth-grade work. Fairly rapid and
    accurate in number combinations, but cannot solve arithmetical
    problems which require any reasoning. Reads with reasonable
    fluency, but with little understanding. Appears exceedingly
    good-natured, but was once suspended from school for hurling
    bricks at a fellow pupil. Played a "joke" on another pupil by
    fastening a dangerous, sharp-pointed, steel paper-file in the
    pupil's seat for him to sit down on. He is cruel, stubborn, and
    plays truant, but is fairly industrious when he gets a job as
    errand or delivery boy. Discharged once for taking money.

    F. H. is generally called "queer," but is not ordinarily thought
    of as feeble-minded. His deficiency is real, however, and it is
    altogether doubtful whether he will be able to make a living and
    to keep out of trouble, though he is now (at age 20) employed as
    messenger boy for the Western Union at $30 per month. This is
    considerably less than pick-and-shovel men get in the community
    where he lives. Delinquents and criminals often belong to this
    level of intelligence.

    W. C. Boy, age 16-8; mental age 12; I Q 75 (disregarding age
    above 16 years). Father a college professor. All the other
    children in the family of unusually superior intelligence. When
    tested (four years ago) was trying to do seventh-grade work, but
    with little success. Wanted to leave school and learn farming,
    but father insisted on his getting the usual grammar-school and
    high-school education. Made $25 one summer by raising vegetables
    on a vacant lot. In the four years since the test was made he
    has managed to get into high school. Teachers say that in spite
    of his best efforts he learns next to nothing, and they regard
    him as hopelessly dull. Is docile, lacks all aggressiveness,
    looks stupid, and has head circumference an inch below normal.

    Here is a most pitiful case of the overstimulated backward child
    in a superior family. Instead of nagging at the boy and urging
    him on to attempt things which are impossible to his inferior
    intelligence, his parents should take him out of school and put
    him at some kind of work which he could do. If the boy had been
    the son of a common laborer he would probably have left school
    early and have become a dependable and contented laborer. In a
    very simple environment he would probably not be considered
    defective.

    C. P. Boy, age 10-2; mental age 7-11; I Q 78. Portuguese boy,
    son of a skilled laborer. One of eleven children, most of whom
    have about this same grade of intelligence. Has attended school
    regularly for four years. Is in the third grade, but cannot do
    the work. Except for extreme stubbornness his social development
    is fairly normal. Capable in plays and games, but is regarded as
    impossible in his school work. Like his brother, M. P., the next
    case to be described, he will doubtless become a fairly reliable
    laborer at unskilled work and will not be regarded, in his
    rather simple environment, as a defective. From the
    psychological point of view, however, his deficiency is real. He
    will probably never develop beyond the 11- or 12-year level or
    be able to do satisfactory school work beyond the fifth or sixth
    grade.

    M. P. Boy, age 14; mental age 10-8; I Q 77. Has been tested
    four successive years, I Q being always between 75 and 80.
    Brother to C. P. above. In school nearly eight years and has
    been promoted to the fifth grade. At 16 was doing poor work in
    the sixth grade. Good school advantages, as the father has tried
    conscientiously to give his children "a good education."
    Perfectly normal in appearance and in play activities and is
    liked by other children. Seems to be thoroughly dependable both
    in school and in his outside work. Will probably become an
    excellent laborer and will pass as perfectly normal,
    notwithstanding a grade of intelligence which will not develop
    above 11 or 12 years.

What shall we say of cases like the last two which test at high-grade moronity or at border-line,
but are well enough endowed in moral and personal traits to pass as normal in an uncomplicated
social environment? According to the classical definition of feeble-mindedness such individuals
cannot be considered defectives. Hardly any one would think of them as institutional cases.
Among laboring men and servant girls there are thousands like them. They are the world's "hewers
of wood and drawers of water." And yet, as far as intelligence is concerned, the tests have
told the truth. These boys are uneducable beyond the merest rudiments of training. No amount
of school instruction will ever make them intelligent voters or capable citizens in the true
sense of the word. Judged psychologically they cannot be considered normal.

It is interesting to note that M. P. and C. P. represent the level of intelligence which is
very, very common among Spanish-Indian and Mexican families of the Southwest and also among
negroes. Their dullness seems to be racial, or at least inherent in the family stocks from
which they come. The fact that one meets this type with such extraordinary frequency among
Indians, Mexicans, and negroes suggests quite forcibly that the whole question of racial differences
in mental traits will have to be taken up anew and by experimental methods. The writer predicts
that when this is done there will be discovered enormously significant racial differences in
general intelligence, differences which cannot be wiped out by any scheme of mental culture.

Children of this group should be segregated in special classes and be given instruction which
is concrete and practical. They cannot master abstractions, but they can often be made efficient
workers, able to look out for themselves. There is no possibility at present of convincing
society that they should not be allowed to reproduce, although from a eugenic point of view
they constitute a grave problem because of their unusually prolific breeding.

DULL NORMALS (I Q USUALLY 80 TO 90). In this group are included those children who would not,
according to any of the commonly accepted social standards, be considered feeble-minded, but
who are nevertheless far enough below the actual average of intelligence among races of western
European descent that they cannot make ordinary school progress or master other intellectual
difficulties which average children are equal to. A few of this class test as low as 75 to 80 I Q,
but the majority are not far from 85. The unmistakably normal children who go much below this
(in California, at least) are usually Mexicans, Indians, or negroes.

    R. G. Negro boy, age 13-5; mental age 10-6; I Q approximately
    80. Normal in appearance and conduct, but very dull. Is
    attempting fifth-grade work in a special class, but is failing.
    From a fairly good home and has had ordinary school advantages.
    In the examination his intelligence is very even as far as it
    goes, but stops rather abruptly after the 10-year tests. Will
    unquestionably pass as normal among unskilled laborers, but his
    intelligence will never exceed the 12-year level and he is not
    likely to advance beyond the seventh grade, if as far.

    F. D. Boy, tested at age 10-2; I Q 83, and again at 14-1;
    I Q 79. Mental age in the first test was 8-6 and in the second
    test 11. Son of a barber. Father dead; mother capable; makes a
    good home, and cares for her children well. At 10 was doing
    unsatisfactory work in the fourth grade, and at 12
    unsatisfactory work in low sixth. Good-looking, normal in
    appearance and social development, and though occasionally
    obstinate is usually steady. Any one unacquainted with his poor
    school work and low I Q would consider him perfectly normal. No
    physical or moral handicaps of any kind that could possibly
    account for his retardation. Is simply dull. Needs purely a
    vocational training, but may be able to complete the eighth
    grade with low marks by the age of 16 or 17.

    G. G. Girl, age 12-4; mental age 10-10; I Q 82. From average
    home. Excellent educational advantages and no physical
    handicaps. At 12 years was doing very poor work in fifth grade.
    Appearance, play life, and attitude toward other children
    normal. Simply dull. Will probably never go beyond the 12- or
    13-year level and is not likely to get as far as the high
    school.

Those testing 80 and 90 will usually be able to reach the eighth grade, but ordinarily only
after from one to three or four failures. They are so very numerous (about 15 per cent of the
school enrollment) that it is doubtful whether we can expect soon to have special classes enough
to accommodate all. The most feasible solution is a differentiated course of study with parallel
classes in which every child will be allowed to make the best progress of which he is capable,
without incurring the risk of failure and non-promotion. The so-called Mannheim system, or
something similar to it, is what we need.

AVERAGE INTELLIGENCE (I Q 90 TO 110). It is often said that the schools are made for the average
child, but that "the average child does not exist." He does exist, and in very large numbers.
About 60 per cent of all school children test between 90 and 110 I Q, and about 40 per cent
between 95 and 105. That these children are average is attested by their school records as
well as by their I Q's. Our records show that, of more than 200 children below 14 years of
age and with I Q between 95 and 105, not one was making much more nor much less than average
school progress. Four were two years retarded, but in each case this was due to late start,
illness, or irregular attendance. Children who test close to 90, however, often fail to get
along satisfactorily, while those testing near 110 are occasionally able to win an extra promotion.

The children of this average group are seldom school problems, as far as ability to learn is
concerned. Nor are they as likely to cause trouble in discipline as the dull and border-line
cases. It is therefore hardly necessary to give illustrative cases here.

The high school, however, does not fit their grade of intelligence as well as the elementary
and grammar schools. High schools probably enroll a disproportionate number of pupils in the
I Q range above 100. That is, the average intelligence among high-school pupils is above the
average for the population in general. It is probably not far from 110. College students are,
of course, a still more selected group, perhaps coming chiefly from the range above 115. The
child whose school marks are barely average in the elementary grades, when measured against
children in general, will ordinarily earn something less than average marks in high school,
and perhaps excessively poor marks in college.

SUPERIOR INTELLIGENCE (I Q 110 TO 120). Children of this group ordinarily make higher marks
and are capable of making somewhat more rapid progress than the strictly average child. Perhaps
most of them could complete the eight grades in seven years as easily as the average child
does in eight years. They are not usually the best scholars, but on a scale of excellent, good,
fair, poor, and failure they will usually rank as good, though of course the degree of application
is a factor. It is rare, however, to find a child of this level who is positively indolent
in his school work or who dislikes school. In high school they are likely to win about the
average mark.

Intelligence of 110 to 120 I Q is approximately five times as common among children of superior
social status as among children of inferior social status; the proportion among the former
being about 24 per cent of all, and among the latter only 5 per cent of all. The group is made
up largely of children of the fairly successful mercantile or professional classes.

The total number of children between 110 and 120 is almost exactly the same as the number between
80 and 90; namely, about 15 per cent. The distance between these two groups (say between 85 and 115)
is as great as the distance between average intelligence and border-line deficiency, and it
would be absurd to suppose that they could be taught to best advantage in the same classes.
As a matter of fact, pupils between 110 and 120 are usually held back to the rate of progress
which the average child can make. They are little encouraged to do their best.

VERY SUPERIOR INTELLIGENCE (I Q 120 TO 140). Children of this group are better than somewhat
above average. They are unusually superior. Not more than 3 out of 100 go as high as 125 I Q,
and only about 1 out of 100 as high as 130. In the schools of a city of average population
only about 1 child in 250 or 300 tests as high as 140 I Q.

In a series of 476 unselected children there was not a single one reaching 120 whose social
class was described as "below average."[29] Of the children of superior social status, about
10 per cent reached 120 or better. The 120-140 group is made up almost entirely of children
whose parents belong to the professional or very successful business classes. The child of
a skilled laborer belongs here occasionally, the child of a common laborer very rarely indeed.
At least this is true in the smaller cities of California among populations made up of native-born
Americans. In all probability it would not have been true in the earlier history of the country
when ordinary labor was more often than now performed by men of average intelligence, and it
would probably not hold true now among certain immigrant populations of good stock, but limited
social and educational advantages.

[29] In other investigations, however, we have found even brighter children from very inferior
homes. See p. 117 for an example.

What can children of this grade of ability do in school? The question cannot be answered as
satisfactorily as one could wish, for the simple reason that such children are rarely permitted
to do what they can. What they do accomplish is as follows: Of 54 children (of the 1000 unselected
cases) falling in this group, 12½ per cent were advanced in the grades two years, approximately
54 per cent were advanced one year, 28 per cent were in the grade where they belonged by chronological
age, and three children, or 5½ per cent, were actually retarded one year. But wherever located,
such children rarely get anything but the highest marks, and the evidence goes to show that
most of them could easily be prepared for high school by the age of 12 years. Serious injury
is done them by schools which believe in "putting on the brakes."

The following are illustrations of children testing between 130 and 145. Not all are taken
from the 1000 unselected tests. The writer has discovered several children of this grade as
a result of lectures before teachers' institutes. It is his custom, in such lectures, to ask
the teachers to bring in for a demonstration test the "brightest child in the city" (or county,
etc.). The I Q resulting from such a test is usually between 130 and 140, occasionally a little
higher.

Examples of very superior intelligence

    Margaret P. Age 8-10; mental age 11-1; I Q 130. Father only a
    skilled laborer (house painter), but a man of unusual
    intelligence and character for his social class. Home care above
    average. M. P. has attended school a little less than three
    years and is completing fourth grade. Marks all "excellent."
    Health perfect. Social and moral traits of the very best. Is
    obedient, conscientious, and unusually reliable for her age.
    Quiet and confident bearing, but no touch of vanity.

    M. P. is known to be related on her father's side to John
    Wesley, and her maternal grandfather was a highly skilled
    mechanic and the inventor of an important train-coupling device
    used on all railroads.

    Although she is not yet 9 years old and is completing the fourth
    grade, she is still about a grade below where she belongs by
    mental age. She could no doubt easily be made ready for high
    school by the age of 12.

    J. R. Girl, age 12-9; mental age 16 (average adult); I Q
    approximately 130. Daughter of a university professor. In first
    year of high school. From first grade up her marks have been
    nearly all of the A rank. For first semester of high school four
    of six grades were A, the others B. A wonderfully charming,
    delightful girl in every respect. Play life perfectly normal.

    J. R.'s parents have moved about a great deal and she has
    attended eight different schools. She is two years above grade
    in school, but of this gain only one-half grade was made in
    school; the other grade and a half she gained in a little over
    a year by staying out of school and working a little each day
    under the instruction of her mother. But for this she would
    doubtless now be in the seventh grade instead of in high school.
    As it is she is at least a grade below where she belongs by
    mental age. Something better than an average college record may
    be safely predicted for J. R.

    E. B. Girl, age 7-9; mental age 10-2; I Q 130. E. B. was
    selected by the teachers of a small California city as the
    brightest school child in that city (school population about
    500). Her parents are said to be unusually intelligent. E. B. is
    in the third grade, a year advanced, but her mental level shows
    that she belongs in the fourth. The test was made as a
    demonstration test in the presence of about 150 teachers, all
    of whom were charmed by her delightful personality and keen
    responses. No trace of vanity or queerness of any kind. Health
    excellent. E. B. ought to be ready for high school at 12; she
    will really have the intelligence to do high-school work by 11.

    L. B. Girl, age 8-6; mental age 11-6; I Q 135. Tested nearly
    three years earlier, age 5-11; mental age 7-6; I Q 127. Daughter
    of a university professor. At age of 8-6 was doing very superior
    work in the fifth grade. Later, at age of 10-6, is in the
    seventh grade with all her marks excellent. Has two sisters who
    test almost as high, both completing the eighth grade at barely
    12 years of age. L. B. looks rather delicate, and though a
    little nervous is ordinarily strong. We have known her since her
    early childhood. Like both her sisters, she is a favorite with
    young and old, as nearly perfection as the most charming little
    girl could be.

    R. S. Boy, age 6-5; mental age 9-6; I Q 148. When tested at
    age 5-2 he had a mental age of 7-6, I Q 142. Father a university
    professor. R. S. entered school at exactly 6 years of age, and
    at the present writing is 7½ years old and is entering the
    third grade. Leads his class in school and takes delight in the
    work. Is normal in play life and social traits and is dependable
    and thoughtful beyond his years. Should enter high school not
    later than 12; could probably be made ready a year earlier, but
    as he is somewhat nervous this might not be wise.

    T. F. Boy, age 10-6; mental age 14; I Q 133. At 13-6 tested at
    "superior adult," and had vocabulary of 13,000 (also "superior
    adult"). Son of a college professor. Did not go to school till
    age of 9 years and was not taught to read till 8½. At this
    writing he is 15½ years old and is a senior in high school.
    He will complete the high-school course in three and one-half
    years with A to B marks, mostly A. Gets his hardest mathematics
    lessons in five to ten minutes. Science is his play. When he
    discovered Hodge's Nature Study and Life at age of 11 years he
    literally slept with the book till he almost knew it by heart.
    Since age 12 he has given much time to magazines on mechanics
    and electricity. At 13 he installed a wireless apparatus
    without other aid than his electrical magazines. He has, for a
    boy of his age, a rather remarkable understanding of the
    principles underlying electrical applications. He is known by
    his playmates as "the boy with a hobby." Stamp collections,
    butterfly and moth collections (over 70 different varieties),
    seashore collections, and wireless apparatus all show that the
    appellation is fully merited. He chooses his hobbies and "rides"
    them entirely on his own initiative.

    J. S. Boy, age 8-2; mental age 11-4; I Q 138. Father was a
    lawyer, parents now dead. Is in high fourth grade. Leads his
    class. Attractive, healthy, normal-appearing lad. Full of good
    humor. Is loving and obedient, strongly attached to his foster
    mother (an aunt). Composes verses and fables for pastime. Here
    are a couple of verses composed before his eighth birthday. They
    are reproduced without change of spelling or punctuation:--

        Christmas

        Hurrah for Christmas
        And all it's joy's
        That come that day
        For girls and boy's.

        Flowers

        Flowers in the garden.
        That is all you see
        Who likes them best?
        That's the honey bee.

    J. S. ought to be in the fifth grade, instead of the fourth. He
    will easily be able to enter college by the age of 15 if he is
    allowed to make the progress which would be normal to a child of
    his intelligence. But it is too much to expect that the school
    will permit this.

    F. McA. Boy, age 10-3; mental age 14-6; I Q 142. Father a
    school principal. F. is leading his class of 24 pupils in the
    high seventh grade. Has received so many extra promotions only
    because his father insisted that the teachers allow him to try
    the next grade. The dire consequences which they predicted have
    never followed. F. is perfectly healthy and one of the most
    attractive lads the writer has ever seen. He has the normal play
    instincts, but when not at play he has the dignified bearing of
    a young prince, although without vanity. His vocabulary is 9000
    (14 years), and his ability is remarkably even in all
    directions. F. should easily enter college by the age of 15.

    E. M. Boy, age 6-11; mental age 10; I Q 145. Learned to read
    at age of 5 without instruction and shortly afterward had
    learned from geography maps the capitals of all the States of
    the Union. Started to school at 7½. Entered the first grade
    at 9 A.M. and had been promoted to the fourth grade by 3 P.M. of
    the same day! Has now attended school a half-year and is in the
    fifth grade, age 7 years, 8 months. Father is on the faculty of
    a university.

    E. M. is as superior in personal and moral traits as in
    intelligence. Responsible, sturdy, playful, full of humor,
    loving, obedient. Health is excellent. Has had no home
    instruction in school work. His progress has been perfectly
    natural.

The above list of "very superior" children includes only a few of those we have tested who
belong to this grade of intelligence. Every child in the list is so interesting that it is
hard to omit any. We have found all such children (with one or two exceptions not included
here) so superior to average children in all sorts of mental and moral traits that one is at
a loss to understand how the popular superstitions about the "queerness" of bright children
could have originated or survived. Nearly every child we have found with I Q above 140 is the
kind one feels, before the test is over, one would like to adopt. If the crime of kidnaping
could ever be forgiven it would be in the case of a child like one of these.

GENIUS AND "NEAR" GENIUS. Intelligence tests have not been in use long enough to enable us
to define genius definitely in terms of I Q. The following two cases are offered as among the
highest test records of which the writer has personal knowledge. It is doubtful whether more
than one child in 10,000 goes as high as either. One case has been reported, however, in which
the I Q was not far from 200. Such a record, if reliable, is certainly phenomenal.

    E. F. Russian boy, age 8-5; mental age 13; I Q approximately
    155. Mother is a university student apparently of very superior
    intelligence. E. F. has a sister almost as remarkable as
    himself. E. F. is in the sixth grade and at the head of his
    class. Although about four grades advanced beyond his
    chronological age he is still one grade retarded! He could
    easily carry seventh-grade work. In all probability E. F. could
    be made ready for college by the age of 12 years without injury
    to body or mind. His mother has taken the only sensible course;
    she has encouraged him without subjecting him to
    overstimulation.

    E. F. was selected for the test as probably one of the brightest
    children in a city of a third of a million population. He may
    not be the brightest in that city, but he is one of the three or
    four most intelligent the writer has found after a good deal of
    searching. He is probably equaled by not more than one in
    several thousand unselected children. How impatiently one waits
    to see the fruit of such a budding genius!
    Vocabulary 7000 (12 years). This test was not made by the
    writer, but by one of his graduate students. The record included
    the verbatim responses, so that it was easy to verify the
    scoring. There can be no doubt as to the substantial accuracy
    of the test. This I Q of 160 is the highest one in the Stanford
    University records. B. F. has excellent health, normal play
    interests, and is a favorite among his playfellows. Parents had
    not thought of him as especially remarkable. He is only in the
    third grade, and is therefore about three grades below his
    mental age.

It is especially noteworthy that not one of the children we have described with I Q above 130
has ever had any unusual amount or kind of home instruction. In most cases the parents were
not aware of their very great superiority. Nor can we give the credit to the school or its
methods. The school has in most cases been a deterrent to their progress, rather than a help.
These children have been taught in classes with average and inferior children, like those described
in the first part of this chapter. Their high I Q is only an index of their extraordinary cerebral
endowment. This endowment is for life. There is not the remotest probability that any of these
children will deteriorate to the average level of intelligence with the onset of maturity.
Such an event would be no less a miracle (barring insanity) than the development of an imbecile
into a successful lawyer or physician.

IS THE I Q OFTEN MISLEADING? Do the cases described in this chapter give a reliable picture
as to what one may expect of the various I Q levels? Does the I Q furnish anything like a reliable
index of an individual's general educational possibilities and of his social worth? Are there
not "feeble-minded geniuses," and are there not children of exceptionally high I Q who are
nevertheless fools?

We have no hesitation in saying that there is not one case in fifty in which there is any serious
contradiction between the I Q and the child's performances in and out of school. We cannot
deny the existence of "feeble-minded geniuses," but after a good deal of search we have not
found one. Occasionally, of course, one finds a feeble-minded person who is an expert penman,
who draws skillfully, who plays a musical instrument tolerably well, or who handles number
combinations with unusual rapidity; but these are not geniuses; they are not authors, artists,
musicians, or mathematicians.

As for exceptionally intelligent children who appear feeble-minded, we have found but one case,
a boy of 10 years with an I Q of about 125. This boy, whom we have tested several times and
whose development we have followed for five years, was once diagnosed by a physician as feeble-minded.
His behavior among other persons than his familiar associates is such as to give this impression.
Nothing less than an entire chapter would be adequate for a description of this case, which
is in reality one of disturbed emotional and social development with superior intelligence.

It should be emphasized, however, that what we have said about the significance of various
I Q's holds only for the I Q's secured by the use of the Stanford revision. As we have shown
elsewhere (p. 62 ff.) the I Q yielded by other versions of the Binet tests are often so inaccurate
as to be misleading.

We have not found a single child who tested between 70 and 80 I Q by the Stanford revision
who was able to do satisfactory school work in the grade where he belonged by chronological
age. Such children are usually from two to three grades retarded by the age of 12 years. Those
who test between 96 and 105 are almost never more than one grade above or below where they
belong by chronological age, and even the small displacement of one year is usually determined
by illness, age of beginning school, etc.

CHAPTER VII

RELIABILITY OF THE BINET-SIMON METHOD

GENERAL VALUE OF THE METHOD. In a former chapter we have noted certain imperfections of the
scale devised by Binet and Simon; namely, that many of the tests were not correctly located,
that the choice of tests was in a few cases unsatisfactory, that the directions for giving
and scoring the tests were sometimes too indefinite, and that the upper and lower ranges of
the scale especially stood in need of extensions and corrections. All of these faults have
been quite generally admitted. The method itself, however, after being put to the test by psychologists
of all countries and of all faiths, by the skeptical as well as the friendly, has amply demonstrated
its value. The agreement on this point is as complete as it is regarding the scale's imperfections.

The following quotations from prominent psychologists who have studied the method will serve
to show how it is regarded by those most entitled to an opinion:--

    There can be no question about the fact that the Binet-Simon
    tests do not make half as frequent or half as great errors in
    the mental ages (of feeble-minded children) as are included in
    gradings based on careful, prolonged general observation by
    experienced observers.[30]

    [30] Dr. F. Kuhlmann: "The Binet-Simon Tests of Intelligence in Grading
    Feeble-Minded Children," in Journal of Psycho-Asthenics (1912),
    p. 189.

    All of the different authors who have made these researches
    (with Binet's method) are in a general way unanimous in
    recognizing that the principle of the scale is extremely
    fortunate, and all believe that it offers the basis of a most
    useful method for the examination of intelligence.[31]

    [31] Dr. Otto Bobertag: "L'échelle métrique de l'intelligence," in
    L'Année Psychologique (1912), p. 272.

    It serves as a relatively simple and speedy method of securing,
    by means accessible to every one, a true insight into the
    average level of ability of a child between 3 and 15 years of
    age.[32]

    [32] Dr. Ernest Meumann: Experimentelle Pädagogik (1913), vol. II,
    p. 277.

    That, despite the differences in race and language, despite the
    divergences in school organization and in methods of
    instruction, there should be so decided agreement in the
    reactions of the children--is, in my opinion, the best
    vindication of the principle of the tests that one could
    imagine, because this agreement demonstrates that the tests do
    actually reach and discover the general developmental conditions
    of intelligence (so far as these are operative in
    public-school children of the present cultural epoch), and not
    mere fragments of knowledge and attainments acquired by
    chance.[33]

    [33] Dr. W. Stern: The Psychological Methods of Testing Intelligence.
    Translated by Whipple (1913), p. 49.

    It is without doubt the most satisfactory and accurate method of
    determining a child's intelligence that we have, and so far
    superior to everything else which has been proposed that as yet
    there is nothing else to be considered.[34]

    [34] Dr. H. H. Goddard: "The Binet Measuring Scale of
    Intelligence; What it is and How it is to be Used," in The
    Training School Bulletin (1912).

The value of the method lies both in the swiftness and the accuracy with which it works. One
who knows how to apply the tests correctly and who is experienced in the psychological interpretation
of responses can in forty minutes arrive at a more accurate judgment as to a subject's intelligence
than would be possible without the tests after months or even years of close observation. The
reasons for this have already been set forth.[35] The difference is something like that between
measuring a person's height with a yardstick and estimating it by guess. That this is not an
unfair statement of the case is well shown by the following candid confession by a psychologist
who tested 200 juvenile delinquents brought before Judge Lindsey's court:--

[35] See this volume, p. 24 ff.

    As a matter of interest I estimated the mental ages of 150 of my
    subjects before testing them. In 54 of the estimates the error
    was not more than one year in either direction; 70 of the
    subjects were estimated too high, the average error being
    2 years and 7 months; 26 of the subjects were estimated too low,
    the average error being 2 years and 2 months. These figures
    would seem to imply that an estimate with nothing to support it
    is wholly unreliable, more especially as many of the estimates
    were four or five years wide of the mark.[36]

    [36] C. S. Bluemel: "Binet Tests on 200 Delinquents," in The Training
    School Bulletin (1915), p. 192. (Italics inserted.)

Criticisms of the Binet method have also been frequently voiced, but chiefly by persons who
have had little experience with it or by those whose scientific training hardly justifies an
opinion. It cannot be too strongly emphasized that eminence in law, medicine, education, or
any other profession does not of itself enable any one to pass judgment on the validity of
a psychological method.

DEPENDENCE OF THE SCALE'S RELIABILITY ON THE TRAINING OF THE EXAMINER. On this point two radically
different opinions have been urged. On the one hand, some have insisted that the results of
a test made by other than a thoroughly trained psychologist are absolutely worthless. At the
opposite extreme are a few who seem to think that any teacher or physician can secure perfectly
valid results after a few hours' acquaintance with the tests.

The dispute is one which cannot be settled by the assertion of opinion, and, unfortunately,
thoroughgoing investigations have not yet been made as to the frequency and extent of errors
made by untrained or partially trained examiners. The only study of this kind which has so
far been reported is the following:--[37]

[37] Samuel C. Kohs: "The Binet Test and the Training of Teachers," in The Training School
Bulletin (1914), pp. 113-17.

Dr. Kohs gives the results of tests made by 58 inexperienced teachers who were taking a summer
course in the Training School at Vineland. The class met three times a week for instruction
in the use of the Binet scale. During the first week the students listened to three lectures
by Dr. Goddard. The second week was given over to demonstration testing. Each student saw four
children tested, and attended two discussion periods of an hour each. During the third, fourth,
and fifth weeks each student tested one child per week, and observed the testing of two others.
The student was allowed to carry the test through in his own way, but received criticism after
it was finished. Twice a week Dr. Goddard spent an hour with the class, discussing experimental
procedure. The subjects tested were feeble-minded children whose exact mental ages were already
known, and for this reason it was possible to check up the accuracy of each student's work.

Kohs's table of results for the trial testing of the 174 children showed:--

  (1) That 50 per cent of the work was as exact as any one in the
      laboratory could make it;

  (2) That in an additional 38 per cent the results were within
      three fifths of a year of being exact;

  (3) That nearly 90 per cent of the work of the summer students was
      sufficiently accurate for all practical purposes;

  (4) That the records improved during the brief training so that
      during the third week only one test missed the real mental age
      by as much as a year.

Since hardly any of these students had had any previous experience with the Binet tests, Dr. Kohs
seems to be entirely justified in his conclusion that it is possible, in the brief period of
six weeks, to teach people to use the tests with a reasonable degree of accuracy.

What shall we say of the teacher or of the physician who has not even had this amount of instruction?
The writer's experience forces him to agree with Binet and with Dr. Goddard, that any one with
intelligence enough to be a teacher, and who is willing to devote conscientious study to the
mastery of the technique, can use the scale accurately enough to get a better idea of a child's
mental endowment than he could possibly get in any other way. It is necessary, however, for
the untrained person to recognize his own lack of experience, and in no case would it be justifiable
to base important action or scientific conclusions upon the results of the inexpert examiner.
As Binet himself repeatedly insisted, the method is not absolutely mechanical, and cannot be
made so by elaboration of instructions.

It is sometimes held that the examination and classification of backward children for special
instruction should be carried out by the school physicians. The fact is, however, that there
is nothing in the physician's training to give him any advantage over the ordinary teacher
in the use of the Binet tests. Because of her more intimate knowledge of children and because
of her superior tact and adaptability, the average teacher is perhaps better equipped than
the average physician to give intelligence tests.

Finally, it should be emphasized that whatever the previous training or experience of the examiner
may have been, his ability to adjust to the child's personality and his willingness to follow
conscientiously the directions for giving the tests are important factors in his equipment.

INFLUENCE OF THE SUBJECT'S ATTITUDE. One continually meets such queries as, "How do you know
the subject did his best?" "Possibly the child was nervous or frightened," or, "Perhaps incorrect
answers were purposely given." All such objections may be disposed of by saying that the competent
examiner can easily control the experiment in such a way that embarrassment is soon replaced
by self-confidence, and in such a way that effort is kept at its maximum. As for mischievous
deception, it would be a poor clinicist who could not recognize and deal with the little that
is likely to arise.

Cautions regarding embarrassment, fatigue, fright, illness, etc. are given in Chapter IX. Most
of the errors which have been reported along this line are such as can nearly always be avoided
by ordinary prudence, coupled with a little power of observation.[38] We must not charge the
mistakes of untrained and indiscreet examiners against the validity of the method itself.

[38] See, for example, the rather ludicrous "errors" of the Binet method reported in The Psychological
Clinic for 1915, pp. 140 ff. and 167 ff.

It is possibly true that even if the examiner is tactful and prudent an unfavorable attitude
on the part of the subject may occasionally affect the results of a test to some extent, but
it ought not seriously to invalidate one examination out of five hundred. The greatest danger
is in the case of a young subject who has been recently arrested and brought before a court.
Even here a little common sense and scientific insight should enable one to guard against a
mistaken diagnosis.

THE INFLUENCE OF COACHING. It might be supposed that after the intelligence scale had been
used with a few pupils in a given school all of their fellows would soon be apprised of the
nature of the tests, and so learn the correct responses. Experience shows, however, that there
is little likelihood of such influence except in the case of a small minority of the tests.
Experiments in the psychology of testimony have demonstrated that children's ability to report
upon a complex set of experiences is astonishingly weak. In testing with the Stanford revision
a child is ordinarily given from twenty-four to thirty different tests, many of which are made
up of three or more items. Of the total forty to fifty items the child is ordinarily able to
report but few, and these not always correctly.

Such tests as memory for sentences and digits, drawing the square and diamond, reproducing
the designs from memory, comparing weights and lines, describing and interpreting pictures,
æsthetic comparison, vocabulary, dissected sentences, fables, reading for memories, finding
differences and similarities, arithmetical reasoning, and the form-board test, are hardly subject
to report at all. While almost any of the other tests might, theoretically, be communicated,
there is little danger that many of them will be. It is assumed, of course, that the examiner
will take proper precautions to prevent any of his blanks or other materials from falling into
the hands of those who are to be examined.

The following tests are the ones most subject to the influence of coaching: Ball and field,
giving date, naming sixty words, finding rhymes, changing hands of clock, comprehension of
physical relations, "induction test," and "ingenuity test."

In several instances we have interviewed children an hour or two after they had taken the examination,
in order to find out how many of the tests they could recall. A boy of 4 years, after repeated
questioning, could only say: "He showed me some pictures. He had a knife and a penny. He told
me to shut the door." A girl of 3 years could recall nothing whatever that was intelligible.

An 8-year-old boy said: "He made me tie a knot. He asked me about a ship and an auto. He wanted
me to count backwards. He made me say over some things, numbers and things."

A boy of 12 years said: "He told me to say all the words I could think of. He said some foolish
things and asked what was foolish [he could not repeat a single absurdity]. I had to put some
blocks together. I had to do some problems in arithmetic [he could not repeat a single problem].
He read some fables to me. [Asked about the fables he was able to recall only part of one,
that of the fox and the crow.] He showed me the picture of a field and wanted to know how to
find a ball."

It is evident from the above samples of report that the danger of coaching increases considerably
with the age of the children concerned. With young subjects the danger is hardly present at
all; with children of the upper-grammar grades, in the high school, and most of all in prisons
and reformatories, it must be taken into account. Alternative tests may sometimes be used to
advantage when there is evidence of coaching on any of the regular tests. It would be desirable
to have two or three additional scales which could be used interchangeably with the Binet-Simon.

RELIABILITY OF REPEATED TESTS. Will the same tests give consistent results when used repeatedly
with the same subject? In general we may say that they do. Something depends, however, on the
age and intelligence of the subject and on the time interval between the examinations.

Goddard proves that feeble-minded individuals whose intelligence has reached its full development
continue to test at exactly the same mental age by the Binet scale, year after year. In their
case, familiarity with the tests does not in the least improve the responses. At each retesting
the responses given at previous examinations are repeated with only the most trivial variations.
Of 352 feeble-minded children tested at Vineland, three years in succession, 109 gave absolutely
no variation, 232 showed a variation of not more than two fifths of a year, while 22 gained
as much as one year in the three tests. The latter, presumably, were younger children whose
intelligence was still developing.

Goddard has also tested 464 public-school children for three successive years. Approximately
half of these showed normal progress or more in mental age, while most of the remainder showed
somewhat less than normal progress.

Bobertag's retesting of 83 normal children after an interval of a year gave results entirely
in harmony with those of Goddard. The reapplication of the tests showed absolutely no influence
of familiarity, the correlation of the two tests being almost perfect (.95). Those who tested
"at age" in the first test had advanced, on the average, exactly one year. Those who tested
plus in the first test advanced in the twelve months about a year and a quarter, as we should
expect those to do whose mental development is accelerated. Correspondingly, those who tested
minus at the first test advanced only about three fourths of a year in mental age during the
interval.[39]

[39] Otto Bobertag: "Ueber Intelligenz Prüfungen," in Zeitsch. f. Angew. Psychol. (1912), p. 521 ff.

Our own results with a mixed group of normal, superior, dull and feeble-minded children agree
fully with the above findings. In this case the two tests were separated by an interval of
two to four years, and the correlation between their results was practically perfect. The average
difference between the I Q obtained in the second test and that obtained in the first was only
4 per cent, and the greatest difference found was only 8 per cent.[40]

[40] See The Stanford Revision and Extension of the Binet-Simon Scale for Measuring Intelligence.
(Warwick and York, 1916.)

The repetition of the test at shorter intervals will perhaps affect the result somewhat more,
but the influence is much less than one might expect. The writer has tested, at intervals of
only a few days to a few weeks, 14 backward children of 12 to 18 years, and 8 normal children
of 5 to 13 years. The backward children showed an average improvement in the second test of
about two months in mental age, the normal children an average improvement of little more than
three months. No child varied in the second test more than half a year from the mental age
first secured. On the whole, normal children profit more from the experience of a previous
test than do the backward and feeble-minded.

Berry tested 45 normal children and 50 defectives with the Binet 1908 and 1911 scales at brief
intervals. The author does not state which scale was applied first, but the mental ages secured
by the two scales were practically the same when allowance was made for the slightly greater
difficulty of the 1911 series of tests.[41]

[41] Charles Scott Berry: "A Comparison of the Binet Tests of 1908 and 1911," in Journal of
Educational Psychology (1912), pp. 444-51.

We may conclude, therefore, that while it would probably be desirable to have one or more additional
scales for alternative use in testing the same children at very brief intervals, the same scale
may be used for repeated tests at intervals of a year or more with little danger of serious
inaccuracy. Moreover, results like those set forth above are important evidence as to the validity
of the test method.

INFLUENCE OF SOCIAL AND EDUCATIONAL ADVANTAGES. The criticism has often been made that the
responses to many of the tests are so much subject to the influence of school and home environment
as seriously to invalidate the scale as a whole. Some of the tests most often named in this
connection are the following: Giving age and sex; naming common objects, colors, and coins;
giving the value of stamps; giving date; naming the months of the year and the days of the
week; distinguishing forenoon and afternoon; counting; making change; reading for memories;
naming sixty words; giving definitions; finding rhymes; and constructing a sentence containing
three given words.

It has in fact been found wherever comparisons have been made that children of superior social
status yield a higher average mental age than children of the laboring classes. The results
of Decroly and Degand and of Meumann, Stern, and Binet himself may be referred to in this connection.
In the case of the Stanford investigation, also, it was found that when the unselected school
children were grouped in three classes according to social status (superior, average, and inferior),
the average I Q for the superior social group was 107, and that of the inferior social group
93. This is equivalent to a difference of one year in mental age with 7-year-olds, and to a
difference of two years with 14-year-olds.

However, the common opinion that the child from a cultured home does better in tests solely
by reason of his superior home advantages is an entirely gratuitous assumption. Practically
all of the investigations which have been made of the influence of nature and nurture on mental
performance agree in attributing far more to original endowment than to environments. Common
observation would itself suggest that the social class to which the family belongs depends
less on chance than on the parents' native qualities of intellect and character.

The results of five separate and distinct lines of inquiry based on the Stanford data agree
in supporting the conclusion that the children of successful and cultured parents test higher
than children from wretched and ignorant homes for the simple reason that their heredity is
better. The results of this investigation are set forth in full elsewhere.[42]

[42] See The Stanford Revision and Extension of the Binet-Simon Measuring Scale of Intelligence.
(Warwick and York, 1916)

It would, of course, be going too far to deny all possibility of environmental conditions affecting
the result of an intelligence test. Certainly no one would expect that a child reared in a
cage and denied all intercourse with other human beings could by any system of mental measurement
test up to the level of normal children. There is, however, no reason to believe that ordinary
differences in social environment (apart from heredity), differences such as those obtaining
among unselected children attending approximately the same general type of school in a civilized
community, affects to any great extent the validity of the scale.

A crucial experiment would be to take a large number of very young children of the lower classes
and, after placing them in the most favorable environment obtainable, to compare their later
mental development with that of children born into the best homes. No extensive study of this
kind has been made, but the writer has tested twenty orphanage children who, for the most part,
had come from very inferior homes. They had been in a well-conducted orphanage for from two
to several years, and had enjoyed during that time the advantages of an excellent village school.
Nevertheless, all but three tested below average, ranging from 75 to 90 I Q.

The impotence of school instruction to neutralize individual differences in native endowment
will be evident to any one who follows the school career of backward children. The children
who are seriously retarded in school are not normal, and cannot be made normal by any refinement
of educational method. As a rule, the longer the inferior child attends school, the more evident
his inferiority becomes. It would hardly be reasonable, therefore, to expect that a little
incidental instruction in the home would weigh very heavily against these same native differences
in endowment. Cases like the following show conclusively that it does not:--

    X is the son of unusually intelligent and well-educated parents.
    The home is everything one would expect of people of scholarly
    pursuits and cultivated tastes. But X has always been
    irresponsible, troublesome, childish, and queer. He learned to
    walk at 2 years, to talk at 3, and has always been delicate and
    nervous. When brought for examination he was 8 years old. He had
    twice attempted school work, but could accomplish nothing and
    was withdrawn. His play-life was not normal, and other children,
    younger than himself, abused and tormented him. The Binet tests
    gave an I Q of approximately 75; that is, the retardation
    amounted to about two years. The child was examined again three
    years later. At that time, after attending school two years, he
    had recently completed the first grade. This time the I Q was
    73. Strange to say, the mother is encouraged and hopeful because
    she sees that her boy is learning to read. She does not seem to
    realize that at his age he ought to be within three years of
    entering high school.

    The forty-minute test had told more about the mental ability of
    this boy than the intelligent mother had been able to learn in
    eleven years of daily and hourly observation. For X is
    feeble-minded; he will never complete the grammar school; he
    will never be an efficient worker or a responsible citizen.

    Let us change the picture. Z is a bright-eyed, dark-skinned girl
    of 9 years. She is dark-skinned because her father is a mixture
    of Indian and Spanish. The mother is of Irish descent. With her
    strangely mated parents and two brothers she lives in a dirty,
    cramped, and poorly furnished house in the country. The parents
    are illiterate, and the brothers are retarded and dull, though
    not feeble-minded.

