About a dozen miles from Nikolsk there dwelt a widow, Madame Korobotchka by name, who lived
on her late husband's estate, and had suffered more than her neighbours by the prevalent serf
mortality. Late one evening, when a violent storm was raging without, a stranger, who had been
surprised in the storm, demanded the shelter of Madame Korobotchka's château till the morning;
and as hospitality is a sacred duty in Russia, his demand was not only granted, but in a few
minutes the stranger was seated as her vis-à-vis at the best repast her impoverished condition
could afford.

'You appear to have a nice property here, matouchka,' said the stranger, by way of opening
a conversation. 'How many peasants have you?'

'Peasants, batiouchka! At present, about eighty; but these are awful times. This year, we have
had a frightful loss of them. Providence have pity on us!'

'Nevertheless, your men look well enough, and----But, pardon me--allow me to inquire to whom
I am indebted for this hospitality? I am quite confused--arrived so suddenly and so late--I'----

'My name is Korobotchka--my paternal name Nastasie Petrovna.'

'Nastasie Petrovna! Beautiful name.'

'And you, sir?' inquired Nastasie. And then added, palpitating with terror: 'Are you--surely
not--are you--an assessor?'

'O no!' was the reply. 'My name is Tchitchikof. I am no assessor; I travel on purely private
business.'

'I see: you have come to buy. How annoying! I've just sold all my honey to those thieves of
merchants.'

'It is of no consequence. I do not buy honey.'

'Indeed! hemp, then? Dear me, and I have next to none.'

'Never mind, matouchka,' said Tchitchikof. 'My business in these parts is different. You were
mentioning that you have had many deaths here?'

'Alas, yes! eighteen souls,' said Nastasie, sighing; 'and such fine fellows: and the worst
is, I shall have to pay for them. The assessor arrives, you must pay what he demands--pay to
a soul. Eighteen die--it is all one--you pay the same. They are frightful, they are ruinous,
these deaths!'

'Ah, Nastasie,' said Tchitchikof, 'it is the will of God: we must not murmur against Providence!
But tell me--will you let me have them?'

'Let you have what?'

'Your dead souls.'

'How can I let you have them?'

'Nothing easier. Sell them to me: I will give you money for them.'

'How! what! Do you want to disinter them?'

'Disinter them! what nonsense; no!' cried Tchitchikof. 'You hand them over to me by a regular
conveyance, and I pay you whatever we agree upon for them.'

'And what will you do with them?' asked Nastasie in great surprise.

'That is my business,' said Tchitchikof.

'But you see they are dead.'

'And who, in the name of goodness, said they were living?' cried he. 'It's a misfortune for
you that they are dead, isn't it? You pay the tax for them, don't you?--and that'll half-ruin
you, you say. Well, I clear you of the tax for these eighteen dead ones--do you understand?--not
only clear you of the tax, but give fifteen rubles into the bargain. Is that clear, or is it not?'

'No--yes--I can't tell what to say. You see, I have never sold dead peasants before, and'-----

'It would be queer if you had,' cried Tchitchikof. 'Who'd buy them, do you think? It's my humour,
my whim, to have them. I gain nothing by them--how can I?--and you gain everything. Cannot
you see that?'

'Yes--but--really I don't know what to say. What puzzles me is, that they are dead.'

'She hasn't the brains of a bullock,' exclaimed Tchitchikof indignantly. 'Listen, matouchka.
Pay attention. You pay for them as if they were living: that will ruin you.'

'Ah, that is true indeed, batiouchka. In three months, I must pay one hundred and fifty rubles,
and bribe the assessor to boot.'

'Well, then, I save you all that trouble. I pay for these eighteen--I, not you. When you sign
the contract, I hand over the money. Do you understand now?'

As Nastasie's cupidity excelled her stupidity, she did begin to understand; and after a little
more hesitation and explanation, Tchitchikof drew up a formal conveyance of the eighteen souls,
precisely as though they were bodies and souls, inserting their names, however, as a guarantee
against his claiming any of Nastasie's living stock. Nastasie signed it, Tchitchikof paid the
money, and, after a good night's rest, departed for Nikolsk, with the title-deed of the dead
souls safely in his possession.

Of course this new freak of Tchitchikof's was soon noised abroad, and in the eyes of the Nikolskians
proved two things:--1st, That he was unmistakably mad, or philanthropic to a high degree; 2d,
That there was now a prospect of gaining something by said madness or philanthropy. Accordingly,
all the serf-owners made it their business to drop in upon Tchitchikof in a purely casual manner;
and contrived, after more or less higgling, to depart with a larger quantity of the current
coin of Russia in their possession than they possessed on first seeking the interview. In a
few days, Tchitchikof found himself possessed of 2000 souls, at the moderate cost of 19,500
rubles. Dead souls were getting quite a scarce article; and, on the true principles of supply
and demand, some enterprising Nikolskians were about to import some defunct souls from a distance,
when suddenly, one morning, the host of the Eagle announced, that at dead of the previous night,
Tchitchikof had departed, bag and baggage and souls.

This sudden departure created a great sensation. All the old theories about Tchitchikof revived;
and the general opinion seemed to be, that it was all a deep-laid scheme of some irresponsible
man in authority, the end whereof was to be suffering in some shape or other to the good people
of Nikolsk; until the inspector of the hospital, the Nikolsk Socrates, proved clearly, by unassailable
argumentation, that Tchitchikof was mad; that his exit was in exact keeping with his conduct
during his sojourn; and that they might repose in the peace of easy consciences, proud that
they had made the most of his insanity.

Now for the dénouement. At St Petersburg is or was a bank established by a paternal government
for this most laudable purpose: what with deaths, taxes, and the natural extravagance that
seems to accompany the possession of land in all countries, the Russian landowners are often
embarrassed, and were driven, before this bank was established, to seek assistance from usurious
Jews, the end of which was frequently total ruin, and a Hebraicising of the race of landowners,
not pleasant to a Russian and a Christian czar. Therefore this bank was established to lend
money to distressed members of the landed interest; compelled by its charter to lend 200 rubles
per soul, at a given interest and time, to every landowner who should deposit his title-deeds
with the bank. On a certain day very soon after Tchitchikof's abrupt exit from Nikolsk, a solicitor
applies at this bank for a loan of 400,000 rubles on the security of 2000 souls. The title-deeds
are examined--found correct; the money is paid; and in a few days afterwards M. Tchitchikof
and the money are both out of the jurisdiction of the czar.

The time for repayment arrives. The bank hears nothing of M. Tchitchikof. A letter is sent
to Nikolsk: no reply. Another of a threatening nature: still no reply. Finally, a special agent
is despatched, and finds neither Tchitchikof nor security; but gradually collects the particulars
of his visit, as narrated above, and returns to report progress, or no progress, to his superiors.
There is nothing for it, one would think, but to write off the 400,000 rubles as a clear loss,
and think no more of it. But a paternal government knows better than that. It adjudges that
the Nikolskians are virtually accessaries to the fraud; apportions the loan among the sellers
of the souls, and compels repayment. So that the Nikolskians have to conclude, in reflecting
on M. Tchitchikof, not without acerbity and a certain uncharitableness of spirit, that if he
were a friend of his species, he limited his species to himself; and if he were mad, there
was a very clear and profitable method in his madness.

Meantime the principal actor in this little Russian episode, as the Baron von Rabenstein, captivates
the hearts of our English ladies at the ball-room, and empties the pockets of our English gentlemen
at the rouge et noir table in the fashionable German watering-place of Lugundtrugbad. And without
disparaging his patriotism, or natural love of country, we believe we speak advisedly when
we state, that he has not the slightest idea of returning, within anything like a limited period,
to the territories of his autocratic majesty.

SPELLING-BOOK VERSUS HORN-BOOK.

Nothing is considered a more shocking mark of defective education than false spelling, or bad
spelling, or misspelling--all which terms are used to express one's spelling a word in some
way which the critic does not approve; that is, does not consider the right way. But this is
plainly assuming that there is but one right way. Begging his pardon, is he quite certain that
there must be true and false, good and bad, right and wrong ways of spelling every word in
every language, or even in our own? It seems very doubtful. At all events, we must, I think,
tether the critic to his own particular period, and not let him range up and down at his pleasure,
condemning the past and legislating for the future.

No doubt there is at this time a common and usual way of spelling most words, which may claim
to be called the right way, or orthography. It is equally certain, that for any individual
writer to depart from that way, is anything but a mark of wisdom. At the same time, it would
not be difficult to specify a considerable number of words, of which the spelling has only
recently been made what it is, and about which, even now, doubts may be raised.

