We were in haste but there was no hurrying postillions on those mountain roads. We nooned at
some nameless change-house and were glad to make the thirty-six miles to Libarium by dusk.
The next day was consumed in covering the thirty-five miles to Dertona. From there on we travelled,
in general down hill, and so quicker, but not much quicker, so that a third day entire was
needed for making the fifty-one miles to Placentia.

Placentia, a second time, was unlucky for us. It might have been worse, for we did not again
encounter Gratillus, or anyone else who might have recognized me. But I made a fool of myself.
I am not going to tell what happened; Agathemer never reproached me for my folly, not even
in our bitterest misery; but I reproached myself daily for nearly three years; I am still ashamed
of myself and I do not want to set down my idiotic behavior.

Let it suffice, that, through no fault of Agathemer's, but wholly through my fault, we were
suspected, interrogated, arrested, stripped, our brand- marks and scourge-scars observed and
ourselves haled before a magistrate. To him Agathemer told the same tale he had told to Tarrutenus
Spinellus. It might have served had we been dealing with a man of like temper, for travellers
from Aneona for Aquileia regularly passed through Placentia turning there from northwest along
the road from Aneona to northeast along the road to Aquileia.

But Stabilius Norbanus was a very different kind of man.

"Your story may be true," he said, "but it impresses me as an ingenious lie. If I believed
it I'd not send men like you, with their records written in welts on their backs, with any
convoy, no matter how strict, on the long journey to Aquileia, on which you'd have countless
opportunities of escape. I do not believe your tale. Yet I'll pay this much attention to it:
I'll write to Vedius Aquileiensis and ask him if he owned two slaves answering your descriptions
and lost them through unexplained disappearance or known crimping by Dalmatian pirates at about
the time you indicate.

"Meantime I'll commit you to an ergastulum [Footnote: See Note H.] where you'll be herded with
your kind, all safely chained, so that no escape is possible, and all doing some good to the
state by some sort of productive labor. A winter at the flour-mills will do you two good."

Our winter at the mills may have benefited us, but it was certainly, with its successor at
similar mills, one of the two most wretched winters of my life. And Agathemer, I think, suffered
every bit as acutely as I. We were not chained, except for a few days and about twice as many
more nights; as soon as the manager of the ergastulum felt that he knew us he let us go unchained
like the rest of his charges.

This was because of the structure of the ergastulum. It was located in the cellars of one of
the six or more granaries of Placentia, which has, near each city gate, an extensive public
store-house. The granary under which we were immured was that near the Cremona gate. Above
ground it was a series of rectangles about courtyards each just big enough to accommodate four
carts, all unloading or loading at once. It was everywhere of four stories of bin-rooms, all
built of coarse hard-faced rubble concrete. The cellars were very extensive, and not all on
one level, being cunningly planned to be everywhere about the same depth underground. Where
their floor-levels altered the two were joined by short flights of three, four or five stone
steps, under a vaulted doorway, in the thick partition walls.

Each cellar-floor was about four yards below the ground level so that a tall man, standing
on a tall man's shoulders, could barely reach with his outstretched fingers the tip of the
sill of one of the low windows. These windows, each about a yard high and two yards broad,
were heavily barred with gratings of round iron bars as thick as a man's wrist, set too close
together for a boy's head to pass between them, and each two bars hot- welded at each intersection,
so that each grating was practically one piece of wrought iron, made before the granary was
built and with the ends of each bar set deep in the flinty old rubble concrete. The inmates
need not be chained, as no escape was possible through the windows, though raw night air, rain,
snow at times and the icy winter blasts came in on us through them.

Similarly no escape was possible up the one entrance to the cellars, which was through an inner
courtyard, from which led down a stone stair with four sets of heavy doors; one at the bottom,
one at each end of a landing lighted by a heavily barred window, and one at the top. Between
the inner and outer courtyard were two sets of heavier doors and two equally heavy were at
the street entrance of the outer courtyard. On the stair-landing was the chained-up porter-accountant
seated under the window on a backless stool by a small, heavy accountant's table on which stood
a tall clepsydra by his big account-book. Checking the hours by the clepsydra, he entered the
name of every human being passing, up or down that stair, even the name of the manager every
time he came in or went out. By him always stood a wild Scythian, armed with a spear, girt
with a sabre, and with a short bow and a quiver of short arrows hanging over his back. Similar
Scythians guarded the doorways, a pair of them to each door. The slide by which the grain was
lowered into the ergastulum, the other slide by which the flour, coarse siftings and bran were
hauled up, were similarly guarded. Escape was made so difficult by these precautions that,
while I was there, no one escaped out of the three hundred wretches confined in the ergastulum.

There we suffered sleepless nights in our hard bunks, under worn and tattered quilts, tormented
by every sort of vermin. Swarming with vermin we toiled through the days, from the first hint
of light to its last glimmer, shivering in our ragged tunics, our bare feet numb on the chilly
pavements. We were cold, hungry, underfed on horribly revolting food, reviled, abused, beaten
and always smarting from old welts or new weals of the whip-lashes.

It was all a nightmare: the toil, the lashings, if our monotonous walk around our mill, eight
men to a mill, two to each bar, did not suit the notions of the room-overseer; the dampness,
the cold, the vermin, the pain of our unhealed bruises, the scanty food and its disgusting
uneatableness.

The food seemed the worst feature of our misery. So, in fact, it appears to have seemed to
our despicable companions. Certainly, of the food they complained more than of the toil, the
cold, the vermin, the malignity of the overseers or even of the barbarity of the Scythian guards.
Anyhow their fury at the quality of their food brought to me and Agathemer an alleviation of
our misery. For some hotheaded wretches, goaded beyond endurance, jerked the bars of their
mill from their sockets and with them felled, beat to death and even brained the cook and his
two assistants.

After their corpses had been removed, the floor swabbed up and the murderers turned over to
the gloating Scythians to be done to death by impalement, Scythian fashion, with all the tortures
Scythian ferocity could devise, the manager went from cellar to cellar, all through the ergastulum,
enquiring if any prisoner could cook. No one volunteered, and, when he questioned more than
a few, everyone denied any knowledge of cookery.

A second time he made the tour of his domain, promising any cook a warm tunic, a bunk with
a thick mattress and two heavy quilts, all the food he could eat and two helpers; the helpers
to have similar indulgences. On this second round, in our cellar, a Lydian, nearer to being
fat than any prisoner in the ergastulum, admitted that he could make and bake bread, but vowed
that he could not do anything else connected with cooking. Spurred on by his confession and
tempted by the offers of better clothing and bedding and more food, also by the memories of
Agathemer's cookery the winter before, I blurted out that Agathemer could not make bread, but
could do everything else needed in cookery. Agathemer, after one reproachful glance at me,
admitted that he was a cook of a sort, but declared that he was almost as bad a cook as the
wretch just murdered. The overseer bade him go to the kitchen and told him he might select
a helper; the baker would have been the other helper. As helper Agathemer, naturally, selected me.

After that we suffered less. The slaves acclaimed Agathemer's cooking; for, if their rations
were still scanty by order of the watchful manager, at least their food was edible. Far from
being ultimately killed, like our predecessors, and continually threatened and reviled, we
were blessed by our fellow-slaves. We slept better, in spite of the vermin, on our grass- stuffed
mattresses, under our foul quilts, we shivered less in our thicker tunics. We were not too
tired to discuss, at times, the oddities of our vicissitudes, to congratulate each other on
being, at least, alive, on my not being suspected of being what I actually was, and, above
all, on the safety of our old, blackened, greasy, worthless-looking, amulet-bags, with their
precious contents. To be reduced to carrying food to three hundred of the vilest rascals alive
was a horrible fate for a man who had, two years before, been a wealthy nobleman, but it was
far better than death as a suspected conspirator. And Agathemer was hopeful of our future,
of survival, of escape, of comfort somewhere after he had sold another emerald, ruby, or opal.
Nothing could, for any length of time, dim or cloud the light of Agathemer's buoyancy of disposition.

BOOK III

DIVERSITIES

CHAPTER XXII

THE MUTINEERS

Our promotion from the mills to the kitchen took place early in March of the year when Manius
Acilius Glabrio, after an interval of thirty-four years since his first consulship, was consul
for the second time and had as nominal associate Commodus, preening himself, for the fifth
time, on the highest office in the Republic, which he had done little to deserve, and while
he held it, did less to justify himself in possessing, since he left most of the duties of
the consulship to Glabrio, as he left most of the Principate to Perennis, his Prefect of the
Praetorium. All of this, of course, we learnt later in the year; for, inside our prison, we
knew nothing of what went on in Placentia, let alone of what went on in Italy and in Rome itself.

We had been cooking for more than three months, when, about the middle of June, our attention
in the cellars was distracted from doling out food, as that of the wretches we served was distracted
from eating their scanty rations, by an unusual uproar in the street outside of our windows.
We could descry, in the morning sunlight, military trappings, tattered cloaks, ragged tunics,
dingy kilt-straps, sheenless helmets, unkempt beards, and brawny arms in the crowds which packed
the narrow streets. The mob seemed made up of rough frontier soldiery, and we marvelled at
the presence of such men in Italy.

The uproar increased and we heard it not only from the streets but from the courtyards; we
could not make out any words, but the tone of the tumultuous growls was menacing and imperative.
After no long interval the doors at the foot of the one stair burst open and there entered
to us three centurions, indubitably from distant frontier garrisons, accompanied by six or
seven optiones [Footnote: See Note F.] and a dozen or more legionaries. The privates and corporals
stood silent while one of the three sergeants addressed us:

"No one shall be compelled to join us. Every man of you shall have his unforced choice. All
who join us shall be free. Such as prefer to remain where they are sit down! All who select
to join us stand up!"

If any man sat down I did not see him. Through the door we flowed without jostling or crowding,
for at the first appearance of a tendency to push forward the sergeant's big voice bellowed
a warning and order reigned. Up the stair we poured, passing on the landing the mute, motionless
porter- accountant and his Scythian guard, cowed immobile between two burly frontier centurions;
out into the courtyard we streamed, more and more following till the courtyard was packed.
The whole movement was made in silence, without a cheer or yell, for, like the porter and the
Scythians, the most unconscionable villains in our ergastulum quailed before the truculence
of the frontier sergeants.

In the outer court, at the suggestion of one of those same centurions, every man of us drank
his fill at the well-curb, pairs of the legionaries taking turns at hauling up the buckets
and watering us, much as if we had been thirsty workhorses. After they had made sure that none
had missed a chance to quench his thirst, they roughly marshalled us into some semblance of
order and out into the street we trooped, where we found ourselves between two detachments
of frontier soldiers, one filling the street ahead of us from house-wall to house-wall, the
other similarly blocking the street behind us. Between them we were marched to the market-
square, where we had plenty of room, for we had it all to ourselves, the soldiery having cleared
it and a squad of them blocking the entrance of each street leading into it, so that the townsfolk
were kept out and we herded among the frontier soldiery.

Their centurions, to the number of eighteen, stood together on the stone platform from which
orators were accustomed to address or harangue such crowds as might assemble in the market-square.
Before it we packed ourselves as closely as we could, eager to hear. About us idled the soldiery
not occupied in guarding the approach to the square.

One of the sergeants made a speech to us, explaining our liberation and their presence in Placentia.
He called us "comrades" and began his harangue with a long and virulent denunciation of Perennis,
the Prefect of the Palace. Perennis, he declared, had been a slave of the vilest origin and
had won his freedom and the favor of the Palace authorities and of the Emperor not by merit
but by rank favoritism. He maintained that Perennis, as Prefect of the Palace, had gained such
an ascendancy over Commodus that besides his proper duties as guardian of the Emperor's personal
safety, surely a charge sufficiently heavy to burden any one man and sufficiently honorable
to satisfy any reasonable man, his master had been enticed into entrusting to Perennis the
management of the entire Empire, so that he alone controlled promotions in and appointments
to the navy, army and treasury services. In this capacity, as sole minister and representative
of the sovereign, Perennis had enriched himself by taking bribes from all from whom he could
extort bribes. By his venality he had gone far towards ruining the navy and army, which were
by now more than half officered by hopeless incompetents who had bought their appointments.
As a result the legionaries garrisoning the lines along the Euphrates, the Carpathians, the
Danube, the Rhine and the Wall, since they were badly led, had suffered undeserved mishandling
from the barbarians attacking them; and even the garrisons of mountain districts like Armenia,
Pisidia, and Lusitania had been mauled by the bands of outlaws. He instanced the rebellion
of Maternus as a result of the incompetence and venality of Perennis.

Worse than this, he said, Perennis was plotting the Emperor's assassination and the elevation
to the Principate of one of his two sons. This project of his, which he was furthering by astute
secret machinations, had come to the knowledge of a loyal member of the Emperor's retinue.
He had written of it to a brother of his, Centurion [Footnote: See Note D.] of the Thirteenth
Legion, entitled "Victorious" and quartered on the Wall, along the northern frontier of Britain,
towards the Caledonian Highlands. This letter had reached the quarters of the Thirteenth Legion
late in September. Its recipient had at once communicated to his fellow-sergeants the horrible
intimation which it contained. They had resolved to do all in their power to save their Prince
by forestalling and foiling the treacherous Perennis. They had called a meeting of their garrison
and disclosed their information to their men. The legionaries acclaimed their decision. Deputations
set out east and west along the Wall and roused the other cohorts of the Thirteenth Legion
and those of the Twenty-Seventh. From the Wall messengers galloped south to the garrisons throughout
Britain. In an incredibly short time, despite the approach and onset of winter, they apprised
every garrison in the island. Messengers from every garrison reached every garrison. So rapidly
was mutual comprehension and unanimity established, so secretly did they operate, that on the
Nones of January all the garrisons in Britain simultaneously mutinied, overpowered their unsuspecting
officers, disclosed to them the reasons for their sedition, and invited them to join them.
Of all the officers on the island only two hesitated to agree with their men. These, after
some expostulation, were killed. The rest resumed their duties, if competent, or were relegated
to civilian life, if adjudged incompetent.

The three most prominent legions in Britain, the Sixth, Thirteenth and Twentieth, each entitled,
because of prowess displayed in past campaigns, to the appellation of "Victorious," selected
the equivalent of a cohort apiece to unite into a deputation representing the soldiery of Britain
collectively, to proceed to Rome, reveal to the Emperor his danger, save him, foil Perennis,
and see to it that he was put to death. In pursuance of this plan the six centuries chosen
by the Thirteenth Legion, about five hundred men, had set out southward from the Wall on the
day before the Ides of January. Accomplishing the march of a hundred and thirty-five miles
to Eburacum, in spite of deep snow and heavy snow-storms, in fourteen days, there they foregathered
with the main body of the Sixth Legion and were joined by their six selected centuries. The
twelve, some thousand picked men, accomplished the march of eighty-five miles to Deva in nine
days, though hampered by terrible weather. There they were joined by the delegates of the Twentieth
Legion. Together the fifteen hundred deputies made the march of two hundred and eighty miles
to Ritupis by way of Londinium, in twenty-eight days. At Ritupis they took part in the festival
of Isis, by which navigation was declared open for the year and navigation blessed. Next day,
on the day before the Nones of March, they had sailed for Gaul and made the crossing in ten
hours, without any hindrance from headwinds or bad weather.

From Gessoriacum they had tramped across Gaul, inducing to join them such kindred spirits as
they encountered among the squads of recent levies being drilled at each large town preparatory
to being forwarded to reinforce the frontier garrisons. These inexperienced recruits they had
organized into centuries under sergeants elected by the recruits themselves from among themselves,
which elective centurions had handily learnt their novel duties from instructions given by
one or two veterans detailed to aid in drilling each new century. Before they reached Vapincum
they had associated with them fresh comrades equalling themselves in number, equipped from
town arsenals. With these they had crossed into Italy through the Cottian Alps.

At Segusio they had been told that, under the misrule of Perennis, the ergastula of Italy were
filled, not half with runaway slaves, petty thieves, rascals, ruffians and outlaws, but mainly
with honest fellows who had committed no crime, but had been secretly arrested and consigned
to their prisons merely because they had incurred the displeasure of Perennis or of one of
his henchmen, or had been suspected, however vaguely, of actions, words or even of unspoken
opinions distasteful to him or to anyone powerful through him. Acting on that information they
had been setting free the inmates of ergastula in cities through which they had passed, such
as Turin and Milan, and had formed from these victims two fresh centuries. They proposed that
we join them and march with them to Rome to inform and rescue our Emperor and foil and kill
Perennis.

Of course the liberated riffraff accepted this suggestion with enthusiasm and without a dissenting
voice. We were divided into squads of convenient size and marched off to the near-by bathing
establishments. In that to which Agathemer and I were led, we, with the rest of our squad,
were told by the sergeant superintending us to strip. Our worn, tattered and lousy garments
were turned over to the bath-attendants to be steamed and then disposed of as they might. We
were thoroughly steamed and scrubbed, so that every man of us was freed from every sort of
vermin. During our bath the centurion, in charge of us unobtrusively inspected us individually
and collectively. In the dressing-room of the bathing establishments, after we had been steamed,
scrubbed, baked, and dried, we were clad in military tunics fetched from the town arsenal or
its store-houses. Also we were provided with military boots of the coarsest and cheapest materials,
made after the pattern usual for frontier regiments.

Outside the bath the watchful sergeant divided us into two squads, a larger and a smaller,
the smaller made up of those who, like Agathemer and me, bore brands, and scourge-marks. In
the market-square we were again herded together, surrounded by the British legionaries and
now ourselves divided into those like me and Agathemer, who were marked as runaway slaves and
the larger number who showed no marks of scourge or brand. From among the unmarked the frontier
centurions picked out thirty whom they judged likely material for sergeants like themselves.
These thirty they bade select from among themselves three. Then they set the three, an Umbrian
and a Ligurian outlaw, and a Dalmatian pirate, along the front of the stone platform and asked
us whether we would accept those three as our centurions. Two speakers, one a Venetian and
the other an Insubrian Gaul, objected to the pirate. In his place we were bidden to choose
some other from the twenty-seven already selected by the sergeants. A second Umbrian outlaw
was selected.

Then the centurions bade the newly-elected three to choose each one man in rotation, until
they had made up for each the nucleus of a century from the unmarked men.

After the three new centuries were thus constituted, they asked them to decide whether they
would accept as comrades and associates the residue of the inmates of our ergastulum who were
marked plainly as runaway slaves. They voted overwhelmingly to accept us. Then the three new
sergeants proceeded to choose us also into their centuries. The choosing was interrupted by
a Ravenna Gaul, who called the attention of the assembly to the fact that Agathemer had been
cook to the ergastulum and I his helper; similarly to the baker and his assistant. After some
discussion it was unanimously voted that the baker and his helper be treated as any others
of the liberated rascals, that the three new centurions draw lots which should have Agathemer
for cook to his century and me for his helper, and that the other two centuries appoint cooks
by lot unless cooks and helpers volunteered. Four of the brand-marked rabble at once volunteered.

After the last man had been selected and the British centurions had marshalled, inspected and
approved the three new centuries thus constituted, we were marched off to the town arsenal
and there equipped with corselets, strap-kilts, greaves; cloaks, helmets, shields, swords and
spears; only Agathemer, I, and the four other cooks and helpers, were given no spears, shields,
helmets or body-armour, only swords, jackets and caps.

Then, full-fledged tumultary legionaries, we were marshalled as well as greenhorns could be
ranked and we marched from the market-place the length of the street leading to the Fidentia
Gate. Outside it we found the semblance of a camping-ground and tents ready for us to set up.
Up we set them, we new recruits, clumsily, under the jeers of the old-timers, to the tune of
taunts and curses from the disgusted veteran centurions.

When the camp was set up a fire was made for each century and we cooks and helpers fell to
our duties, with a squad of privates to cut wood, feed the fires, fetch water and do any other
rough preparatory work, such as butchering a sheep or a goat, killing, picking and cleaning
fowls, and what not. For this welcome, if clumsy, assistance we had to thank one of the British
centurions, who admonished our newly-elected Umbrian sergeant that camp-cookery called for
any needed number of assistant helpers to the chief cook if the men were to be fed properly
and promptly.

The town officials had sent out to the camp a generous provision of wheat, barley, lentils,
pulse, sheep, goats, fowls, cheese, oil, salt and wine. I did not learn how the volunteer cooks
fared, but the barley-stew, seasoned with minced fowls, which Agathemer concocted, was acclaimed
by our century.

That night, in our tent, Agathemer and I, talking Greek and whispering, discussed our situation.
After two fulfillments, the prophesy of the Aemilian Sibyl seemed in a fair way to be fulfilled
a third time; we were headed for Rome.

To Rome we went. We had, in that first consultation, in many similar consultations later, planned
to escape and hoped to escape. But we were too carefully watched. Whether we were suspected
because of our scourge- marks and brand-marks, or were prized as cooks, or whether there was
some other reason, we could not conjecture. Certainly we were sedulously guarded on all marches,
and kept strictly within, each camp, though we were free to wander about each camp as we pleased.

We had planned to escape in or near Parma, Mutina, Bononia, or Faventia, any of which towns
Agathemer judged a favorable locality for marketing a gem from our amulet-bags. But in these,
as everywhere else, our guards gave us no chance of escape.

When not busy cooking I found myself greatly interested in the amazing company among which
I was cast. In my rambles about our camp, when all were full-fed and groups sat or lay chatting
about the slackening camp- fires, I became acquainted with most of the eighteen centurions
from the legions quartered in Britain, and had talks, sometimes even long talks, with more
than half of them. These bluff, burly frontier sergeants, like their corporals and men, treated
all their volunteer associates as welcome comrades, even welted and branded runaway slaves
acting as cooks. From them I heard again and again the story of discontent, conspiracy, mutiny,
insurrection and attempt at protest about rectification of the evils they believed to exist,
which tale we had all heard outlined by the sergeant-orator in the Forum of Placentia.

Among the eighteen centurions there was no sergeant-major nor any centurion of the upper rank.
The highest in army rank was Sextius Baculus of Isca, a native of Britain and lineally descended,
through an original colonist of Isca, from the celebrated sergeant-major of the Divine Julius.
He had been twelfth in rank in the Sixth Legion, being second centurion of its second cohort.
Not one of his seventeen associates had ranked so high: the next highest being Publius Cordatus,
of Lindum, who had been second sergeant of the fourth cohort in the Twentieth Legion.

The totality of my mental impressions of what I heard from these two and other members of this
incredible deputation of insurgent mutineers and of what I saw of the doings of the whole deputation,
was vague and confused. From the confusion emerged a predominating sense of their many inconsistencies
and of the haphazard irresponsibility and inconsequence of their states of mind and actions.
They were, indeed, entirely consistent in one respect. Unlike Maternus and his men, not one
of them blamed Commodus for anything, not even for having appointed Perennis to his high office
and then having permitted him to arrogate to himself all the functions of the government of
the Republic and Empire. One and all they excused the Emperor and expressed for him enthusiastic
loyalty: one and all they blamed not only the Prefect's mismanagement but also his own appointment
on Perennis. Consistent as they were in holding these opinions or in having such feelings,
the notions were inconsistent in themselves.

So likewise was their often expressed and manifestly sincere intention to forestall the consummation
of the alleged conspiracy and save the Emperor inconsistent with their slow progress from Britain
towards Rome. Never having been in Britain and knowing little of it from such reports as I
had heard, I could not controvert their assertion that the state of the roads and weather there
had made impossible greater speed than they had achieved from their quarters to their port,
yet I suspected that men really systematically in earnest might have accomplished in twenty
days marches which had occupied them for fifty-one days. I was certain that it was nothing
short of ridiculous for legionaries in hard fighting condition and well fed to consume one
hundred and one days in marching from their landing-port on the coast of Gaul to Placentia:
ten miles a day was despicable marching even for lazy and soft-muscled recruits; any legionaries
should make fifteen, miles at day under any conditions, earnest men keyed up to hurry should
have made twenty and might often march twenty-five miles between camps. These blatherskites
were on fire with high resolve, by their talk, yet had loafed along for a thousand miles, camping
early, sleeping long after sunrise, resting at midday and gorging themselves at leisurely meals.
All this was amazing.

Equally astonishing was the condition of supineness, of all governmental officials in Gaul,
local and Imperial, as their tale revealed it. Neither the Prefect of the Rhine, nor any one
of the Procurators of Gaul, had, as far as their story indicated, made any effort to arrest
them, turn them back, stop them, check them, hinder them or even have them expostulated with.
As far as I could infer from all I heard neither had the governing body of any city or town.
For all they were interfered with by any official they might have been full-time veterans,
honorably discharged, marching homeward under accredited officers provided with diplomas properly
made out, signed, sealed and stamped. Everywhere they had been fed at public expense, lodged
free or provided with camping-grounds and tents; their pack-animals had been replaced if worn
out, and everything they needed had been provided on their asking for it or even before they
made any request. I could only infer that they had inspired fear by their numbers and truculence
and that each town or district had striven to keep them in a good humor and to get rid of them
as soon as possible by entertaining them lavishly and speeding them along their chosen way.

As they told of their own behavior there had been no consistency or system or method in their
additions to their company. By their own account they had enticed men to join them or had ignored
likely recruits in the most haphazard fashion, purely as the humor struck them. The like was
true of their emptyings of ergastula in Italy. At Turin, as well as I could gather from my
chats with this or that centurion or soldier or liberated slave, they had set free the inmates
of the ergastulum by the Segusio Gate and had then turned aside to that by the Vercellae Gate,
but had ignored the larger ergastulum by the Milan Gate; though they had marched out of Turin,
necessarily, by that gate. Similarly at Milan, they had emptied two ergastula and ignored the
rest; as at Placentia, where they had expended all their time and energy on the first ergastulum
they happened on inside the Milan Gate and on ours, and then had ignored or forgotten the four
or five others, equally large and equally well filled.

On our progress to Rome I saw similar inconsistencies in their behavior. They never so much
as entered Fidentia, but marched round it, acquiescent to the gentle suggestion of a trembling
and incoherent alderman, quaking with fear and barely able to enunciate some disjointed sentences.
At Parma they emptied two ergastula and never so much as approached the others, repeating this
inconsistency at Mutina and Bononia. Outside of Faventia something, I never learned what, enraged
a knot of the veterans, so that their fury communicated itself to all the soldiery from Britain
and inflamed their associates, Gallic and Italian. Whereupon we burst the Bononia Gate of Faventia,
flocked into the town, sacked some of the shops, left a score of corpses in the market-place
and some in the streets near it, set fire to a block of buildings, and burst out of the Ariminum
Gate, tumultuous and excited, but without so much as trying the outer doors of any ergastulum.

Yet, after this riotous performance, we did no damage at Ariminum, not even entering the town,
not even enquiring if it had an ergastulum, as it must have had.

Similarly at Pisaurum, at Fanum Fortunae, at Forum Sempronii, though these were small towns
and could not have resisted us, we camped outside, accepted gracefully the tents and food provided
for us and made no move to maltreat anyone or do any looting. But at Nuceria, at Spolitum and
at Narnia we entered the towns and liberated the inmates of two of the ergastula, in each,
though we never so much as threatened Interamnia.

Looking back over these proceedings I explain them to myself approximately as follows: the
eighteen centurions from Britain treated each other as if they all felt on terms of complete
mutual equality, none ever assumed any rights of superiority, seniority, precedence, or authority,
none was ever invested with any right of permanent or temporary leadership. If some whim prompted
any one of the eighteen to take the lead in emptying an ergastulum or breaking in a town gate,
or sacking a shop, not one of his fellow-sergeants demurred or expostulated or opposed him;
they all concurred in any suggestion of any one of them. And the soldiers followed their centurions
with, apparently, implicit confidence in them, or a blind instinct of deference. So of submission
to the request of any town decurion, that they stay outside: mostly, they were acquiescent.
But if something irritated a sergeant, or even a soldier, the entire deputation flamed into
fury and burst gates, sacked shops and even fired buildings until their rage spent itself,
after which they were civil and kindly to all townsmen, whether officials, citizens, slaves
or women and children. I never could detect any reason for any action or inaction of theirs.

CHAPTER XXIII

THE EMPEROR

The liberations of public slaves from ergastula in Turin, Milan, Placentia, Parma, Mutina,
Bononia, Nuceria, Spolitum and Narnia resulted in the formation of eighteen tumultuary centuries,
which, between Narnia and Ocriculum, during a long noon-halt, were formed into the semblance
of three cohorts, thus we approached Rome as nine cohorts: three of the deputies from Britain;
three more of the recruits from Gaul, presumably like the British legionaries, loyal patriots,
bent on foiling Perennis, and saving their beloved Emperor; and three more composed of the
contents of a dozen or more ergastula, opened as the whim took the veteran sergeants, and assumed
to contain not pilferers, runaways or evil-doers, but innocent victims of the malignity of
the understrappers of that unspeakable Perennis.

As we drew near Rome Agathemer and I discussed our situation and prospects with increasing
alarm. After we left Narnia the watch on us was not so close and we might have escaped. But
we had seen a score of attempts at escape, by various rascals, foiled and ending in the butchery
of the would-be fugitives. While escape was possible the risk was very great. Also, Agathemer
argued, we were too near to Rome to be safe if we got clear away. Between dread of death if
caught and fear of we knew not what if we escaped, we stuck to our cookery. Mixed with our
projects for bettering our prospects we talked much of our amazement at the treatment which
the deputation and its associates had met in Italy. Manifestly the townsfolk and their officials
were not only overawed, but helpless. If there had been no Rome, no Republic, no Praetorians,
no Prefect of the Palace, no central authority whatever we could not have been more completely
free from hindrance, coercion or question, Yet Agathemer and I could not but conjecture that
the Senate, Perennis and Commodus had been promptly and minutely informed of all our doings,
of our progress, of our approach; and had taken measures to deal with us and our instigators.
We felt panicky.

Spouting long tirades about their loyalty to the Emperor, their hatred of Perennis and their
eagerness to foil one and save the other, our irresponsible frontier centurions let their men
and us loiter southward through Cisalpine Gaul and Umbria as they had loitered on the other
side of the Alps, seldom marching more than ten miles a day. So that we left Ocriculum on the
tenth day before the Kalends of August and stopped overnight at each change-station.

We had had fair weather all the way from Placentia, except a heavy rain at Ariminum and showers
in the mountains between Forum Sempronii and Nuceria. When day dawned on us at Rostrata Villa,
on the eighth day before the Kalends of August, it dawned cloudy, but not threatening. After
the usual camp breakfast of porridge and wine, we fell in, by now fairly decent marchers, and
set off for Rubrae. But before we had marched a mile, the low clouds soaked us with such a
downpour as I had seldom seen of a July morning near Rome. So heavy and so unrelenting was
the rain that we were glad to halt at the change-house at the twentieth mile-stone, where the
road from Capena to Veii crosses the Flaminian Highway and where there is a prosperous village
as large as many a small town. There we found quarters and food ready for us and were well
entertained. Ad Vicesimum, as the place is called, is only four miles nearer Rome than Villa
Rostrata.

