    Than this nothing has better served, it has served all,
    Served the fluent-tongued and subtle-sensed Greek, and long ere the
          Greek,
    Served in building the buildings that last longer than any,
    Served the Hebrew, the Persian, the most ancient Hindustanee,
    Served the mound-raiser on the Mississippi, served those whose relics
          remain in Central America,
    Served Albic temples in woods or on plains, with unhewn pillars and the
          druids,
    Served the artificial clefts, vast, high, silent, on the snow-cover'd
          hills of Scandinavia,
    Served those who time out of mind made on the granite walls rough
          sketches of the sun, moon, stars, ships, ocean waves,
    Served the paths of the irruptions of the Goths, served the pastoral
          tribes and nomads,
    Served the long distant Kelt, served the hardy pirates of the Baltic,
    Served before any of those the venerable and harmless men of Ethiopia,
    Served the making of helms for the galleys of pleasure and the
          making of those for war,
    Served all great works on land and all great works on the sea,
    For the mediæval ages and before the mediæval ages,
    Served not the living only then as now, but served the dead.

    8

    I see the European headsman,
    He stands mask'd, clothed in red, with huge legs and strong naked arms,
    And leans on a ponderous axe.

    (Whom have you slaughter'd lately European headsman?
    Whose is that blood upon you so wet and sticky?)

    I see the clear sunsets of the martyrs,
    I see from the scaffolds the descending ghosts,
    Ghosts of dead lords, uncrown'd ladies, impeach'd ministers, rejected
          kings,
    Rivals, traitors, poisoners, disgraced chieftains and the rest.

    I see those who in any land have died for the good cause,
    The seed is spare, nevertheless the crop shall never run out
    (Mind you O foreign kings, O priests, the crop shall never run out).

    I see the blood wash'd entirely away from the axe,
    Both blade and helve are clean,
    They spirt no more the blood of European nobles, they clasp no more the
          necks of queens.

    I see the headsman withdraw and become useless,
    I see the scaffold untrodden and mouldy, I see no longer any axe
          upon it,
    I see the mighty and friendly emblem of the power of my own race, the
          newest, largest race.

    9

    (America! I do not vaunt my love for you,
    I have what I have.)

    The axe leaps!
    The solid forest gives fluid utterances,
    They tumble forth, they rise and form,
    Hut, tent, landing, survey,
    Flail, plough, pick, crowbar, spade,
    Shingle, rail, prop, wainscot, jamb, lath, panel, gable,
    Citadel, ceiling, saloon, academy, organ, exhibition-house, library,
    Cornice, trellis, pilaster, balcony, window, turret, porch,
    Hoe, rake, pitchfork, pencil, wagon, staff, saw, jack-plane, mallet,
          wedge, rounce,
    Chair, tub, hoop, table, wicket, vane, sash, floor,
    Work-box, chest, string'd instrument, boat frame, and what not,
    Capitols of States, and capitol of the nation of States,
    Long stately rows in avenues, hospitals for orphans or for the poor or
          sick,
    Manhattan steamboats and clippers taking the measure of all seas.

    The shapes arise!
    Shapes of the using of axes anyhow, and the users and all that
          neighbours them,
    Cutters down of wood and haulers of it to the Penobscot or Kennebec,
    Dwellers in cabins among the Californian mountains or by the little
          lakes, or on the Columbia,
    Dwellers south on the banks of the Gila or Rio Grande, friendly
          gatherings, the characters and fun,
    Dwellers along the St. Lawrence, or north in Kanada, or down by the
          Yellowstone, dwellers on coasts and off coasts,
    Seal-fishers, whalers, arctic seamen breaking passages through the ice.

    The shapes arise!
    Shapes of factories, arsenals, foundries, markets,
    Shapes of the two-threaded tracks of railroads,
    Shapes of the sleepers of bridges, vast frameworks, girders, arches,
    Shapes of the fleets of barges, tows, lake and canal craft, river
          craft,
    Ship-yards and dry-docks along the Eastern and Western seas, and in
          many a bay and by-place,
    The live-oak kelsons, the pine planks, the spars, the hackmatack-roots
          for knees,
    The ships themselves on their ways, the tiers of scaffolds, the workmen
          busy outside and inside,
    The tools lying around, the great auger and little auger, the adze,
          bolt, line, square, gouge, and bead-plane.

    10

    The shapes arise!
    The shape measur'd, saw'd, jack'd, join'd, stain'd,
    The coffin-shape for the dead to lie within in his shroud,
    The shape got out in posts, in the bedstead posts, in the posts of the
          bride's bed,
    The shape of the little trough, the shape of the rockers beneath,
          the shape of the babe's cradle,
    The shape of the floor-planks, the floor-planks for dancers' feet,
    The shape of the planks of the family home, the home of the friendly
          parents and children,
    The shape of the roof of the home of the happy young man and woman, the
          roof over the well-married young man and woman,
    The roof over the supper joyously cook'd by the chaste wife, and
          joyously eaten by the chaste husband, content after his day's
          work.

    The shapes arise!
    The shape of the prisoner's place in the court-room, and of him or her
          seated in the place,
    The shape of the liquor-bar lean'd against by the young rum-drinker
          and the old rum-drinker,
    The shape of the shamed and angry stairs trod by sneaking footsteps,
    The shape of the sly settee, and the adulterous unwholesome couple,
    The shape of the gambling-board with its devilish winnings and losings,
    The shape of the step-ladder for the convicted and sentenced
          murderer, the murderer with haggard face and pinion'd arms,
    The sheriff at hand with his deputies, the silent and white-lipp'd
          crowd, the dangling of the rope.

    The shapes arise!
    Shapes of doors giving many exits and entrances,
    The door passing the dissever'd friend flush'd and in haste,
    The door that admits good news and bad news,
    The door whence the son left home confident and puff'd up,
    The door he enter'd again from a long and scandalous absence, diseas'd,
          broken down, without innocence, without means.

    11

    Her shape arises,
    She less guarded than ever, yet more guarded than ever,
    The gross and soil'd she moves among do not make her gross and soil'd,
    She knows the thoughts as she passes, nothing is conceal'd from her,
    She is none the less considerate or friendly therefor,
    She is the best belov'd, it is without exception, she has no reason
          to fear and she does not fear,
    Oaths, quarrels, hiccupp'd songs, smutty expressions, are idle to
          her as she passes,
    She is silent, she is possess'd of herself, they do not offend her,
    She receives them as the laws of Nature receive them, she is strong,
    She too is a law of Nature--there is no law stronger than she is.

    12

    The main shapes arise!
    Shapes of Democracy total, result of centuries,
    Shapes ever projecting other shapes,
    Shapes of turbulent manly cities,
    Shapes of the friends and home-givers of the whole earth,
    Shapes bracing the earth and braced with the whole earth.

GIVE ME THE SPLENDID SILENT SUN

    1

    Give me the splendid silent sun with all his beams full-dazzling,
    Give me juicy autumnal fruit ripe and red from the orchard,
    Give me a field where the unmow'd grass grows,
    Give me an arbour, give me the trellis'd grape,
    Give me fresh corn and wheat, give me serene-moving animals teaching
          content,
    Give me nights perfectly quiet as on high plateaus west of the
          Mississippi, and I looking up at the stars,
    Give me odorous at sunrise a garden of beautiful flowers where I can
          walk undisturb'd,
    Give me for marriage a sweet-breath'd woman of whom I should never
          tire,
    Give me a perfect child, give me away aside from the noise of the
          world a rural domestic life,
    Give me to warble spontaneous songs recluse by myself, for my own ears
          only,
    Give me solitude, give me Nature, give me again O Nature your primal
          sanities!

    These demanding to have them (tired with ceaseless excitement, and
          rack'd by the war-strife),
    These to procure incessantly asking, rising in cries from my heart,
    While yet incessantly asking still I adhere to my city,
    Day upon day and year upon year O city, walking your streets,
    Where you hold me enchain'd a certain time refusing to give me up,
    Yet giving to make me glutted, enrich'd of soul, you give me forever
          faces
    (O I see what I sought to escape, confronting, reversing my cries,
    I see my own soul trampling down what it ask'd for).

    2

    Keep your splendid silent sun,
    Keep your woods, O Nature, and the quiet places by the woods,
    Keep your fields of clover and timothy, and your corn-fields and
          orchards,
    Keep the blossoming buckwheat fields where the Ninth-month bees hum;
    Give me faces and streets--give me these phantoms incessant and endless
          along the trottoirs!
    Give me interminable eyes--give me women--give me comrades and
          lovers by the thousand!
    Let me see new ones every day--let me hold new ones by the hand
          every day!
    Give me such shows--give me the streets of Manhattan!
    Give me Broadway, with the soldiers marching--give me the sound of the
          trumpets and drums!
    (The soldiers in companies or regiments--some starting away, flushed
          and reckless,
    Some, their time up, returning with thinn'd ranks, young, yet very old,
          worn, marching, noticing nothing)
    Give me the shores and wharves heavy-fringed with black ships!
    O such for me! O an intense life, full to repletion and varied!
    The life of the theatre, bar-room, huge hotel, for me!
    The saloon of the steamer! the crowded excursion for me! the torchlight
          procession!
    The dense brigade bound for the war, with high piled military wagons
          following;
    People, endless, streaming, with strong voices, passions, pageants,
    Manhattan streets with their powerful throbs, with beating drums as
          now,
    The endless and noisy chorus, the rustle and clank of muskets (even the
          sight of the wounded),
    Manhattan crowds, with their turbulent musical chorus!
    Manhattan faces and eyes forever for me.

FACES

    The old face of the mother of many children,
    Whist! I am fully content.

    Lull'd and late is the smoke of the First-day morning,
    It hangs low over the rows of trees by the fences,
    It hangs thin by the sassafras and wild-cherry and cat-brier under
          them.

    I saw the rich ladies in full dress at the soiree,
    I heard what the singers were singing so long,
    Heard who sprang in crimson youth from the white froth and the
          water-blue.

    Behold a woman!
    She looks out from her quaker cap, her face is clearer and more
          beautiful than the sky.

    She sits in an armchair under the shaded porch of the farmhouse,
    The sun just shines on her old white head.

    Her ample gown is of cream-hued linen,
    Her grandsons raised the flax, and her granddaughters spun it with the
          distaff and the wheel.

    The melodious character of the earth,
    The finish beyond which philosophy cannot go and does not wish to go,
    The justified mother of men.

O MAGNET-SOUTH

    O magnet-South! O glistening perfumed South! my South!
    O quick mettle, rich blood, impulse and love! good and evil! O all
          dear to me!
    O dear to me my birth-things--all moving things and the trees where
          I was born--the grains, plants, rivers,
    Dear to me my own slow sluggish rivers where they flow, distant,
          over flats of silvery sands or through swamps,
    Dear to me the Roanoke, the Savannah, the Altamahaw, the Pedee, the
          Tombigbee, the Santee, the Coosa, and the Sabine,
    O pensive, far away wandering, I return with my soul to haunt their
          banks again,
    Again in Florida I float on transparent lakes, I float on the
          Okeechobee, I cross the hummock-land or through pleasant
          openings or dense forests,
    I see the parrots in the woods, I see the papaw-tree and the blossoming
          titi;
    Again, sailing in my coaster on deck, I coast off Georgia, I coast
          up the Carolinas,
    I see where the live-oak is growing, I see where the yellow-pine, the
          scented bay-tree, the lemon and orange, the cypress, the graceful
          palmetto,
    I pass rude sea-headlands and enter Pamlico sound through an inlet, and
          dart my vision inland;
    O the cotton plant! the growing fields of rice, sugar, hemp!
    The cactus guarded with thorns, the laurel-tree with large white
          flowers,
    The range afar, the richness and barrenness, the old woods charged with
          mistletoe and trailing moss,
    The piney odour and the gloom, the awful natural stillness (here in
          these dense swamps the freebooter carries his gun, and the
          fugitive has his conceal'd hut);
    O the strange fascination of these half-known half-impassable swamps,
          infested by reptiles, resounding with the bellow of the
          alligator, the sad noises of the night-owl and the wild-cat,
          and the whirr of the rattlesnake,
    The mocking-bird, the American mimic, singing all the forenoon, singing
          through the moon-lit night,
    The humming-bird, the wild turkey, the raccoon, the opossum;
    A Kentucky corn-field, the tall, graceful, long-leav'd corn, slender,
          flapping, bright green, with tassels, with beautiful ears each
          well-sheath'd in its husk;
    O my heart! O tender and fierce pangs, I can stand them not, I will
          depart;
    O to be a Virginian where I grew up! O to be a Carolinian!
    O longings irrepressible! O I will go back to old Tennessee and never
          wander more.

BY BROAD POTOMAC'S SHORE

    By broad Potomac's shore, again old tongue
    (Still uttering, still ejaculating, canst never cease this babble?)
    Again old heart so gay, again to you, your sense, the full flush spring
          returning,
    Again the freshness and the odours, again Virginia's summer sky,
          pellucid blue and silver,
    Again the forenoon purple of the hills,
    Again the deathless grass, so noiseless soft and green,
    Again the blood-red roses blooming.

    Perfume this book of mine O blood-red roses!
    Lave subtly with your waters every line Potomac!
    Give me of you O spring, before I close, to put between its pages!
    O forenoon purple of the hills, before I close, of you!
    O deathless grass, of you!

OUR OLD FEUILLAGE!

    Always our old feuillage!
    Whoever you are! how can I but offer you divine leaves, that you
          also be eligible as I am?
    How can I but as here chanting, invite you for yourself to collect
          bouquets of the incomparable feuillage of these States?

A BROADWAY PAGEANT

    1

    Over the Western sea hither from Niphon come,
    Courteous, the swart-cheek'd two-sworded envoys,
    Leaning back in their open barouches, bare-headed, impassive,
    Ride to-day through Manhattan.

    Libertad! I do not know whether others behold what I behold,
    In the procession along with the nobles of Niphon, the errand-bearers,
    Bringing up the rear, hovering above, around, or in the ranks marching,
    But I will sing you a song of what I behold Libertad.

    When million-footed Manhattan unpent descends to her pavements,
    When the thunder-cracking guns arouse me with the proud roar I love,
    When the round-mouth'd guns out of the smoke and smell I love spit
          their salutes,
    When the fire-flashing guns have fully alerted me, and heaven-clouds
          canopy my city with a delicate thin haze,
    When gorgeous the countless straight stems, the forests at the wharves,
          thicken with colours,
    When every ship richly drest carries her flag at the peak,
    When pennants trail and street-festoons hang from the windows,
    When Broadway is entirely given up to foot-passengers and
          foot-standers, when the mass is densest,
    When the façades of the houses are alive with people, when eyes gaze
          riveted tens of thousands at a time,
    When the guests from the islands advance, when the pageant moves
          forward visible,
    When the summons is made, when the answer that waited thousands of
          years answers,
    I too arising, answering, descend to the pavements, merge with the
          crowd, and gaze with them.

    2

    Superb-faced Manhattan!
    Comrade Americanos! to us, then at last the Orient comes.

    To us, my city,
    Where our tall-topt marble and iron beauties range on opposite
          sides, to walk in the space between,
    To-day our Antipodes comes.

    The Originatress comes,
    The nest of languages, the bequeather of poems, the race of eld,
    Florid with blood, pensive, rapt with musings, hot with passion,
    Sultry with perfume, with ample and flowing garments,
    With sunburnt visage, with intense soul and glittering eyes,
    The race of Brahma comes.

    See my cantabile! these and more are flashing to us from the
          procession,
    As it moves changing, a kaleidoscope divine it moves changing before
          us.

    For not the envoys nor the tann'd Japanee from his island only,
    Lithe and silent the Hindoo appears, the Asiatic continent itself
          appears, the past, the dead,
    The murky night-morning of wonder and fable inscrutable,
    The envelop'd mysteries, the old and unknown hive-bees,
    The north, the sweltering south, eastern Assyria, the Hebrews, the
          ancient of ancients,
    Vast desolated cities, the gliding present, all of these and more
          are in the pageant-procession.

    Geography, the world, is in it,
    The Great Sea, the brood of islands, Polynesia, the coast beyond,
    The coast you henceforth are facing--you Libertad! from your Western
          golden shores,
    The countries there with their populations, the millions en-masse are
          curiously here,
    The swarming market-places, the temples with idols ranged along the
          sides or at the end, bonze, brahmin, and llama,
    Mandarin, farmer, merchant, mechanic, and fisherman,
    The singing-girl and the dancing-girl, the ecstatic persons, the
          secluded emperors,
    Confucius himself, the great poets and heroes, the warriors, the
          castes, all,
    Trooping up, crowding from all directions, from the Altay mountains,
    From Thibet, from the four winding and far-flowing rivers of China,
    From the southern peninsulas and the demi-continental islands, from
          Malaysia,
    These and whatever belongs to them palpable show forth to me, and are
          seiz'd by me,
    And I am seiz'd by them, and friendlily held by them,
    Till as here them all I chant, Libertad! for themselves and for you.

    For I too raising my voice join the ranks of this pageant,
    I am the chanter, I chant aloud over the pageant,
    I chant the world on my Western sea,
    I chant copious the islands beyond, thick as stars in the sky,
    I chant the new empire grander than any before, as in a vision it
          comes to me,
    I chant America the mistress, I chant a greater supremacy,
    I chant projected a thousand blooming cities yet in time on those
          groups of sea-islands,
    My sail-ships and steam-ships threading the archipelagoes,
    My stars and stripes fluttering in the wind,
    Commerce opening, the sleep of ages having done its work, races reborn,
          refresh'd,
    Lives, works resumed--the object I know not--but the old, the Asiatic
          renew'd as it must be,
    Commencing from this day surrounded by the world.

    3

    And you Libertad of the world!
    You shall sit in the middle well-pois'd thousands and thousands of
          years,
    As to-day from one side the nobles of Asia come to you,
    As to-morrow from the other side the queen of England sends her
          eldest son to you.

    The sign is reversing, the orb is enclosed,
    The ring is circled, the journey is done,
    The box-lid is but perceptibly open'd, nevertheless the perfume pours
          copiously out of the whole box.

    Young Libertad! with the venerable Asia, the all-mother,
    Be considerate with her now and ever hot Libertad, for you are all,
    Bend your proud neck to the long-off mother now sending messages
          over the archipelagoes to you,
    Bend your proud neck low for once, young Libertad.

    Were the children straying westward so long? so wide the tramping?
    Were the precedent dim ages debouching westward from Paradise so long?
    Were the centuries steadily footing it that way, all the while
          unknown, for you, for reasons?

    They are justified, they are accomplish'd, they shall now be turn'd the
          other way also, to travel toward you thence,
    They shall now also march obediently eastward for your sake Libertad.

THE PRAIRIE STATES

    A newer garden of creation, no primal solitude,
    Dense, joyous, modern, populous millions, cities and farms,
    With iron interlaced, composite, tied, many in one,
    By all the world contributed--freedom's and law's and thrift's society,
    The crown and teeming paradise, so far, of time's accumulations,
    To justify the past.

IV

POEMS OF DEMOCRACY

TO FOREIGN LANDS

    I heard that you ask'd for something to prove this puzzle the New
          World,
    And to define America, her athletic Democracy,
    Therefore I send you my poems that you behold in them what you wanted.

TO THEE OLD CAUSE

    To thee old cause!
    Thou peerless, passionate, good cause,
    Thou stern, remorseless, sweet idea,
    Deathless throughout the ages, races, lands,
    After a strange sad war, great war for thee
    (I think all war through time was really fought, and ever will be
          really fought, for thee),
    These chants for thee, the eternal march of thee.

    (A war O soldiers not for itself alone,
    Far, far more stood silently waiting behind, now to advance in this
          book.)

    Thou orb of many orbs!
    Thou seething principle! thou well-kept, latent germ! thou centre!
    Around the idea of thee the war revolving,
    With all its angry and vehement play of causes
    (With vast results to come for thrice a thousand years),
    These recitatives for thee,--my book and the war are one,
    Merged in its spirit I and mine, as the contest hinged on thee,
    As a wheel on its axis turns, this book unwitting to itself,
    Around the idea of thee.

FOR YOU O DEMOCRACY

    Come, I will make the continent indissoluble,
    I will make the most splendid race the sun ever shone upon,
    I will make divine magnetic lands,
            With the love of comrades,
              With the life-long love of comrades.

    I will plant companionship thick as trees along all the rivers of
          America, and along the shores of the great lakes, and all over
          the prairies,
    I will make inseparable cities with their arms about each other's
          necks,
            By the love of comrades,
              By the manly love of comrades.

    For you these from me, O Democracy, to serve you ma femme!
    For you, for you I am trilling these songs.

THOU MOTHER WITH THY EQUAL BROOD

    1

    Thou Mother with thy equal brood,
    Thou varied chain of different States, yet one identity only,
    A special song before I go I'd sing o'er all the rest,
    For thee, the future.

    I'd sow a seed for thee of endless Nationality,
    I'd fashion thy ensemble including body and soul,
    I'd show away ahead thy real Union, and how it may be accomplish'd.

    The paths to the house I seek to make,
    But leave to those to come the house itself.

    Belief I sing, and preparation;
    As Life and Nature are not great with reference to the present only,
    But greater still from what is yet to come,
    Out of that formula for thee I sing.

    2

    As a strong bird on pinions free,
    Joyous, the amplest spaces heavenward cleaving,
    Such be the thought I'd think of thee America,
    Such be the recitative I'd bring for thee.

    The conceits of the poets of other lands I'd bring thee not,
    Nor the compliments that have served their turn so long,
    Nor rhyme, nor the classics, nor perfume of foreign court or indoor
          library;
    But an odour I'd bring as from forests of pine in Maine, or breath
          of an Illinois prairie,
    With open airs of Virginia or Georgia or Tennessee, or from Texas
          uplands, or Florida's glades,
    Or the Saguenay's black stream, or the wide blue spread of Huron,
    With presentment of Yellowstone's scenes, or Yosemite,
    And murmuring under, pervading all, I'd bring the rustling sea-sound,
    That endlessly sounds from the two Great Seas of the world.

    And for thy subtler sense subtler refrains dread Mother,
    Preludes of intellect tallying these and thee, mind-formulas fitted for
          thee, real and sane and large as these and thee,
    Thou! mounting higher, diving deeper than we knew, thou transcendental
          Union!
    By thee fact to be justified, blended with thought,
    Thought of man justified, blended with God,
    Through thy idea, lo, the immortal reality!
    Through thy reality, lo, the immortal idea!

    3

    Brain of the New World, what a task is thine,
    To formulate the Modern--out of the peerless grandeur of the modern,
    Out of thyself, comprising science, to recast poems, churches, art
    (Recast, maybe discard them, end them--maybe their work is done, who
          knows?),
    By vision, hand, conception, on the background of the mighty past, the
          dead,
    To limn with absolute faith the mighty living present.

    And yet thou living present brain, heir of the dead, the Old World
          brain,
    Thou that lay folded like an unborn babe within its folds so long,
    Thou carefully prepared by it so long--haply thou but unfoldest it,
          only maturest it,
    It to eventuate in thee--the essence of the bygone time contain'd in
          thee,
    Its poems, churches, arts, unwitting to themselves, destined with
          reference to thee;
    Thou but the apples, long, long, long a-growing,
    The fruit of all the Old ripening to-day in thee.

    4

    Sail, sail thy best, ship of Democracy,
    Of value is thy freight, 'tis not the Present only,
    The Past is also stored in thee,
    Thou holdest not the venture of thyself alone, not of the Western
          continent alone,
    Earth's résumé entire floats on thy keel O ship, is steadied by thy
          spars,
    With thee Time voyages in trust, the antecedent nations sink or swim
          with thee,
    With all their ancient struggles, martyrs, heroes, epics, wars, thou
          bear'st the other continents,
    Theirs, theirs as much as thine, the destination-port triumphant;
    Steer then with good strong hand and wary eye O helmsman, thou carriest
          great companions,
    Venerable priestly Asia sails this day with thee,
    And royal feudal Europe sails with thee.

    5

    Beautiful world of new superber birth that rises to my eyes,
    Like a limitless golden cloud filling the western sky,
    Emblem of general maternity lifted above all,
    Sacred shape of the bearer of daughters and sons,
    Out of thy teeming womb thy giant babes in ceaseless procession
          issuing,
    Acceding from such gestation, taking and giving continual strength and
          life,
    World of the real--world of the twain in one,
    World of the soul, born by the world of the real alone, led to
          identity, body, by it alone,
    Yet in beginning only, incalculable masses of composite precious
          materials,
    By history's cycles forwarded, by every nation, language, hither sent,
    Ready, collected here, a freer, vast, electric world, to be constructed
          here
    (The true New World, the world of orbic science, morals, literatures to
          come),
    Thou wonder world yet undefined, unform'd, neither do I define thee,
    How can I pierce the impenetrable blank of the future?
    I feel thy ominous greatness evil as well as good,
    I watch thee advancing, absorbing the present, transcending the past,
    I see thy light lighting, and thy shadow shadowing, as if the entire
          globe,
    But I do not undertake to define thee, hardly to comprehend thee,
    I but thee name, thee prophesy, as now,
    I merely thee ejaculate!

