FRANCEZKA

  by
  MOLLY ELLIOT SEAWELL

  Author of
  The Sprightly Romance of Marsac, The
  History of the Lady Betty Stair, etc.

  Illustrated by
  HARRISON FISHER

  New York
  GROSSET & DUNLAP
  Publishers

  Copyright 1902
  The Bowen-Merrill Company
  October

CONTENTS

  Chapter                                                         Page
        I In the Heart of Paris                                      1
       II The Little Actress                                        17
      III The Rescue                                                30
       IV In Beauty's Quarrel                                       40
        V The Elder Brother                                         49
       VI On the Balcony                                            62
      VII An Ugly Duchess                                           72
     VIII Our City of Refuge                                        86
       IX A Crimson Mantle                                          98
        X A Pilgrim and a Wayfarer                                 110
       XI A Lost Cause                                             132
      XII Only the Sunny Hours                                     142
     XIII His Grace and Peggy                                      157
      XIV The Drenched Hen                                         173
       XV The Lost Sheep                                           187
      XVI The Setting of a Star                                    200
     XVII An Impatient Lover                                       216
    XVIII A Vindictive Rogue                                       229
      XIX The Happiest Man Alive                                   242
       XX Forging the Chain                                        253
      XXI The Service of a Friend                                  270
     XXII Her Best Beloved                                         282
    XXIII A Loving Quest                                           297
     XXIV Confident To-morrows                                     307
      XXV A Discomfited Bishop                                     319
     XXVI Come and Rejoice                                         335
    XXVII A Royal Recompense                                       350
   XXVIII A Campaign of Pleasure                                   368
     XXIX As Having No Past                                        383
      XXX The Boar Hunt                                            395
     XXXI The Bitterness of Doubt                                  410
    XXXII In Snuff-Colored Clothes                                 423
   XXXIII A Devil's Imp                                            433
    XXXIV A Garret in Prague                                       448
     XXXV Would You Leave Me Now                                   458

CHAPTER I

IN THE HEART OF PARIS

I maintain that my master, Maurice, Count of Saxe, Marshal-general of France, Duke of Courland
and Semigallia, Knight of the Most Noble Order of Merit, Knight of the Most Noble Order of
the White Eagle, Knight of St. Louis, Knight of St. Stanislaus, and of many other noble Orders--I
maintain him, I say, to be the greatest man, the bravest man, the finest man, the handsomest
man, the man most dreaded by his foes, the most loved by his friends, the most incomparable
with the ladies, the first soldier of all time--in short, the most superb, the most terrible
and the most admirable man who ever lived--and I can prove it.

There are fractious men everywhere who dispute the plainest facts. With these unfortunates
I am willing to argue for a time, but if they grow impudent about Alexander the Great, or Julius
Cæsar, or any of those men who have made a noise in the world, I bring against them one invincible
argument--my sword. I am no great lover of the pistol. My sword is enough, and it never misses
fire. I am the most peaceable creature alive, and never but twice did I lose my temper over
the matter of Count Saxe's greatness. Once was when a bragging rascal of a pseudo-nobleman
from the marches of Brandenburg dared to call this greatness into question, and with offensive
words. I gave him his choice of taking a hundred kicks in the stomach or having his ears cut
off. He chose the latter, and I sliced one of them off; he begged so hard for the other one
that I let it stay on his head.

The second time was with young Gaston Cheverny, who afterward became a devoted adherent of
my master--and whose strange story will be told in these pages. I will say, however, it is
pretty generally understood when Babache, captain of Count Saxe's body-guard of Uhlans, sometimes
known as the Clear-the-way-boys, or the Storm-alongs, and also as the Devil's Own, is in the
neighborhood, that Count Saxe is the greatest man that ever lived.

I am supposed to be a Tatar prince, by birth, that is; but in truth the only claim I have to
either the race or the title is, that I am very ugly. God could have made an uglier man than
I am, because He is omnipotent, but I am sure He never did. I accept my ugliness. I can say
as the actor at the Théâtre Français said, when the audience hissed him on account of his ugliness--it
will be a great deal easier for people to get used to my face than for me to change it.

As to my birthplace, I was born in the Marais, in the cursed town of Paris, and my father was
a notary in a small way. So was the father of Monsieur François Marie Arouet, who now calls
himself Voltaire--and Count Saxe always swore I could write tragedies and national epics as
well as Arouet had I but tried. Especially, as I ever wrote, with the greatest readiness imaginable,
a much better hand than Arouet, or Voltaire, or whatever his name is--we knew the fellow well
in Paris. But I never laid claim to more than what the English call mother-wit, the Spanish
call freckled grammar, and the French call, being born with one's shirt on. It was, however,
my readiness with the pen that first won for me the highest fortune that could befall a man--the
patronage, the friendship and the affection of Maurice, Count of Saxe.

I did not turn my hand to writing for money, and paying my court to the great, as Arouet did;
but being left penniless and an orphan at fourteen, and his Majesty's recruiting officers coming
after me, I went to serve as a foot soldier in Flanders. I carried a musket for twelve years.
Of those years I like neither to speak nor to think. At the end of that time came what I supposed
would be the end of Babache: standing up before a file of soldiers, to be shot down and to
die like a dog, for theft. I was innocent--that I swore on the holy Gospels, and call God to
witness--but the money, two crowns, was found on me; and I could not tell how it got there,
except that I had been carousing in bad company. Count Saxe being very strict against marauding,
I was tried and condemned to be shot.

The whole business, trial and all, was over in a day, and on a summer morning I was led out
to be shot on a bastion of the walls of Mons. It was a very beautiful morning, I remember,
and also that the buglers, playing the dirge, played horribly out of time, as they always do
at military executions. As I was on my way to die, Count Saxe, with a half dozen officers galloping
after him, met the procession. I raised my dull eyes and looked him in the face--a thing I
would not have done, except that a man who has but a quarter of an hour to live need not be
bashful about anything. Count Saxe asked about my case, and the officer in charge said I was
to die for stealing two crowns--and that I had been a good soldier. Count Saxe rode up close to me.

"What a fool you were to risk your life for a couple of crowns," he said.

"I risk it every day," I replied, "for a couple of sous. But I am innocent."

"Give him his life," said Count Saxe.

The buglers changed their tune from a dirge to a lively marching air; the drummer beat a couple
of ruffles on his drum, and we faced about--I think the honest soldiers who were going to shoot
me felt almost as glad as I. Men have to be driven and threatened with punishment to keep them
from shirking when it is necessary to shoot a comrade, and there would certainly be a mutiny
every time, except that a certain number of muskets have no ball cartridges in them--and every
fellow thinks that he has got an empty cartridge.

That same day I wrote a letter to Count Saxe, expressing, as well as I knew how, my thanks
for my life. I took it myself to his quarters--and as good luck would have it, while I was
begging a pert young aide to give the letter to Count Saxe, the count himself came out of his
tent. He read the letter--asked me if I wrote it--and not believing me, told me to come into
his tent, sit down at his table, and write at his dictation. I did so, and I have written every
line to which his name is signed since, except his love letters. Writing is, in itself, no
great accomplishment. Monsieur Voltaire himself has said that a man may have a great deal of
esprit and yet write like a cat. Still less important is spelling.

My master would not in his youth give attention to writing and spelling, having more important
things to learn, and he had an early quarrel with grammar, which was never made up. Nevertheless,
he has written the best book about war yet published--that is to say, he dictated it to me.
And the French Academy elected him a member; but he made merry at the expense of the Academicians,
saying as he knew not how to spell, much less to write, a seat in the Academy would become
him about as well as a ring would become a cat. Also, that if the Academy elected him, it should
also elect Marshal Villars, who could neither read nor write; but that I, Babache, was better
fitted for an Academician than either.

It is certain, however, that no lady ever refused to accept a love letter from Count Saxe because
it was ill spelled and ill written--for that part of his correspondence he attended to strictly
himself. I know that certain things concerning the ladies have been urged against him. I know
he has been described as "a glorious devil, loving beauty only"--but all I know concerning
Count Saxe and the ladies is, the women mobbed him and sent him thousands of love letters.
It may be said that I know more than I will admit. Not so. And it may also be said that I could
have known all if I had wished. Well, so might I have known astronomy, if I had possessed a
taste for the science. But I never liked it. I ever felt small enough anyhow without considering
those myriads of suns and worlds which make one feel considerably less than nothing.

One thing I do know about Count Saxe and one lady, in particular; if he had been willing to
marry that ugly Duchess of Courland, Anna Iwanowna, now Czarina of Russia, he would have been
Duke of Courland de facto as well as de jure; he would have become "cousin" to the Kings of
France and Spain; he would have been "most Illustrious" to the Emperor, and "most Illustrious,
most Mighty," to the King of Poland, and what is more, he would have had the right of coining
money.

But Count Saxe never put any compulsion on himself in affairs of the heart. And I say this;
that with the only two ladies concerning whose relations with him I was familiar--for he was
as secretive with me as I could wish about such things--I never knew a man more blameless.
And these two ladies were both of them singularly beautiful and charming. One of them was an
actress--Mademoiselle Adrienne Lecouvreur, and the other one was Mademoiselle Francezka Capello--that
star-like creature whose beauty, whose riches, whose airy high spirit, whose strange, brilliant
story, laid her open to peculiar dangers. Yet, toward Mademoiselle Capello, Count Saxe behaved
with the most delicate chivalry during the whole of her eventful life. And he forwarded the
love of Mademoiselle Capello and Gaston Cheverny with the noblest disinterestedness.

Count Saxe had a taste not common among soldiers. He liked to hear sermons read--good sermons,
that is, by the great guns of the pulpit, like Bossuet. I often read them to him, and have
been compelled to chastise several persons who thought this matter food for mirth.

It seems to me sometimes as if I had never known but one man and one woman in my life--Count
Saxe and Francezka Capello; they alone reached the ideal heights, in my mind--for a Tatar prince
and the son of a poor notary has his ideals, just the same as a duke and the son of a duke--and
the fact that I was a private soldier before I became a Tatar prince and a captain of Uhlans
has nothing to do with the matter. It may be that Mademoiselle Capello, who had a combination
of Scotch and Spanish pride, won me with the most delicate flattery in the world by honoring
me with her regard--and Babache, the Tatar, was often smiled on, when dukes and marquises were
scowled at, terribly. Of course, I knew that the very difference in our rank made this possible;
and I had a cross eye which stood as a sentinel in my face, to warn Love away.

Only in my dreams, did I breathe of love to Mademoiselle Capello; and in those soft and splendid
visions in the mysterious night and under the earnest stars which seemed then so near and so
kind, Francezka often smiled upon me--nay, even kissed me.

But it was only a dream. At all times, though, I was hers, soul and body, with a doglike devotion--and
in the end, I was given to her, in a singular manner, by Count Saxe. She lavished upon me,
from the beginning, many kind and familiar speeches and acts; and I would have died rather
than throw away, by so much as one word of folly, the treasure of her confidence and friendship.
I took with thankfulness what she gave me--and was not such a fool as to ask for more.

The very first time I saw Mademoiselle Capello was unforgettable for more reasons than one.
It was the first and most serious of those adventures into which her spirit, her talents and
her beauty were perpetually leading her--and it might have been her destruction.

One afternoon about six o'clock in the first days of May, 1726, I was passing along the tangle
of streets back of the Quai des Theatines, when I noticed in the walled garden of the great
Hôtel Kirkpatrick one of those cheap, open-air theaters of which the Parisians of the humbler
classes are so fond. The place itself was retired enough, and only accessible from the maze
of back streets of which I spoke. There was a wide, grassy space in the garden where the theater
was set, with its rude appliances. On one side, quite screening it from the formal gardens
of the hôtel, was an ancient lilac hedge, a forest of bloom and perfume, in those first days
of May. There were great clumps of guelder-roses on each side, and syringas, which had grown
to be trees, and looked like fountains of white blossoms.

It was so very sweet and peaceful--it being quite deserted at the time--that I stood, looking
through the open grille of the huge gateway, and felt the scent of the lilacs and syringas
getting into my blood, as the earth scents and earth sights will; for we are all the children
of Nature, the mighty mother, whether we be born with only the tiles between us and the stars,
or whether our cradle be the ground itself, and in our mother's bosom shall we sleep at last;
so that is why the green earth is never strange to us, nor any of its sweetness unfamiliar.

