Proserpine seems to have been contented in her underground kingdom, where she ruled with Pluto.
It was supposed to be below the volcanic grounds in southern Italy, near Lake Avernus.  The
entrance to it was guarded by a three-headed dog, named Cerberus, and the way to it was barred
by the River Styx.  Every evening Mercury brought all the spirits of the people who had died
during the day to the shore of the Styx, and if their funeral rites had been properly performed,
and they had a little coin on the tongue to pay the fare, Charon, the ferryman, took them across;
but if their corpses were in the sea, or on battle-fields, unburied, the poor shades had to
flit about vainly begging to be ferried over.  After they had crossed, they were judged by
three judges, and if they had been wicked, were sent over the river of fire to be tormented
by the three Furies, Alecto, Megara, and Tisiphone, who had snakes as scourges and in their
hair.  If they had been brave and virtuous, they were allowed to live among beautiful trees
and flowers in the Elysian fields, where Pluto reigned; but they seem always to have longed
after the life they had lost; and these Greek notions of bliss seem sad besides what we know
to be the truth.  Here, too, lived the three Fates, always spinning the threads of men’s lives;
Clotho held the distaff, Lachesis drew out the thread, and Atropos with her shears cut it off
when the man was to die. And, though Jupiter was mighty, nothing could happen but by Fate,
which was stronger than he.

                       [Picture: Mars and Victory]

CHAP. III.—THE PEOPLING OF GREECE.

                   [Picture: Decorative chapter header]

You remember the Titans who rebelled against Jupiter.  There was one who was noble, and wise,
and kind, who did not rebel, and kept his brother from doing so.  His name was Prometheus,
which means Forethought; his brother’s was Epimetheus, or Afterthought; their father was Iapetus.
When all the other Titans had been buried under the rocks, Jupiter bade Prometheus mould men
out of the mud, and call on the winds of heaven to breathe life into them.  Then Prometheus
loved the beings he had made, and taught them to build houses, and tame the animals, and row
and sail on the sea, and study the stars.  But Zeus was afraid they would be too mighty, and
would not give them fire.  Then Prometheus climbed the skies, and brought fire down for them
in a hollow reed.

                        [Picture: Mount Parnassus]

The gods were jealous, and thought it time to stop this.  So Jupiter bade Vulcan mould a woman
out of clay, and Pallas to adorn her with all charms and gifts, so that she was called Pandora,
or All Gifts; and they gave her a casket, into which they had put all pains, and griefs, and
woes, and ills, and nothing good in it but hope; and they sent her down to visit the two Titan
brothers.  Prometheus knew that Jupiter hated them, and he had warned Epimetheus not to take
any gift that came from Olympus; but he was gone from home when Pandora came; and when Epimetheus
saw how lovely she was, and heard her sweet voice, he was won over to trust her, and to open
the box.  Then out flew all the evils and miseries that were stored in it, and began to torment
poor mankind with war, and sickness, and thirst, and hunger, and nothing good was left but
hope at the bottom of the box.  And by-and-by there came spirits, called Prayers, but they
were lame, coming after evil, because people are so apt not to begin to pray till harm has
befallen them.

[Picture: Pandora] The gods undertook also to accept sacrifices, claiming a share in whatever
animal man slew.  Prometheus guarded his people here by putting the flesh of a bullock on one
side, and the bones and inward parts covered with the fat on the other, and bidding Jupiter
choose which should be his.  The fat looked as if the heap it covered were the best, and Jupiter
chose that, and was forced to abide by his choice; so that, whenever a beast was killed for
food, the bones and fat were burnt on the altar, and man had the flesh.  All this made Jupiter
so angry, that, as Prometheus was immortal and could not be killed, he chained the great, good
Titan to a rock on Mount Caucasus, and sent an eagle continually to rend his side and tear
out his liver as fast as it grew again; but Prometheus, in all his agony, kept hope, for he
knew that deliverance would come to him; and, in the meantime, he was still the comforter and
counsellor of all who found their way to him.

Men grew very wicked, owing to the evils in Pandora’s box, and Jupiter resolved to drown them
all with a flood; but Prometheus, knowing it beforehand, told his mortal son Deucalion to build
a ship and store it with all sorts of food.  In it Deucalion and his wife Pyrrha floated about
for nine days till all men had been drowned, and as the waters went down the ship rested on
Mount Parnassus, and Deucalion and Pyrrha came out and offered sacrifices to Jupiter.  He was
appeased, and sent Mercury down to ask what he should grant them.  Their prayer was that the
earth might be filled again with people, upon which the god bade them walk up the hill and
throw behind them the bones of their grandmother.  Now Earth was said to be the mother of the
Titans, so the bones of their grandmother were the rocks, so as they went they picked up stones
and threw them over their shoulders.  All those that Deucalion threw rose up as men, and all
those that Pyrrha threw became women, and thus the earth was alive again with human beings.
No one can fail to see what far older histories must have been brought in the minds of the
Greeks, and have been altered into these tales, which have much beauty in themselves.  The
story of the flood seems to have been mixed up with some small later inundation which only
affected Greece.

The proper old name of Greece was Hellas, and the people whom we call Greeks called themselves
Hellênes. {29}  Learned men know that they, like all the people of Europe, and also the Persians
and Hindoos, sprang from one great family of the sons of Japhet, called Arians.  A tribe called
Pelasgi came first, and lived in Asia Minor, Greece, and Italy; and after them came the Hellênes,
who were much quicker and cleverer than the Pelasgi, and became their masters in most of Greece.
So that the people we call Greeks were a mixture of the two, and they were divided into three
lesser tribes—the Æolians, Dorians, and Ionians.

               [Picture: The World according to the Greeks]

Now, having told you that bit of truth, I will go back to what the Greeks thought.  They said
that Deucalion had a son whose name was Hellên, and that he again had three sons, called Æolus,
Dorus, and Xuthus.  Æolus was the father of the Æolian Greeks, and some in after times thought
that he was the same with the god called Æolus, who was thought to live in the Lipari Islands;
and these keep guard over the spirits of the winds—Boreas, the rough, lively north wind; Auster,
the rainy south wind; Eurus, the bitter east; and Zephyr, the gentle west.  He kept them in
a cave, and let one out according to the way the wind was wanted to blow, or if there was to
be a storm he sent out two at once to struggle, and fight, and roar together, and lash up Neptune’s
world, the sea.  The Æolians did chiefly live in the islands and at Corinth.  One of the sons
of Æolus turned out very badly, and cheated Jupiter.  His name was Sisyphus, and he was punished
in Tartarus—Pluto’s world below—by having always to roll a stone up a mountain so steep that
it was sure to come down upon him again.

Dorus was, of course, the father of the Dorians; and Xuthus had a son, called Iôn, who was
the father of the Ionians.  But, besides all these, there was a story of two brothers, named
Ægyptus and Danaus, one of whom settled in Egypt, and the other in Argos.  One had fifty sons
and the other fifty daughters, and Ægyptus decreed that they should all marry; but Danaus and
his daughters hated their cousins, and the father gave each bride a dagger, with which she
stabbed her bridegroom.  Only one had pity, and though the other forty-nine were not punished
here, yet, when they died and went to Tartarus, they did not escape, but were obliged to be
for ever trying to carry water in bottomless vessels.  The people of Argos called themselves
Danai, and no doubt some of them came from Egypt.

One more story, and a very strange one, tells of the peopling of Greece. A fair lady, named
Europa, was playing in the meadows on the Phœnician coast, when a great white bull came to
her, let his horns be wreathed with flowers, lay down, and invited her to mount his back; but
no sooner had she done so, than he rose and trotted down with her to the sea, and swam with
her out of sight.  He took her, in fact, to the island of Crete, where her son Minos was so
good and just a king, that, when he died, Pluto appointed him and two others to be judges of
the spirits of the dead.  Europe was called after Europa, as the loss of her led settlers there
from Asia.  Europa’s family grieved for her, and her father, mother, and brother went everywhere
in search of her.  Cadmus was the name of her brother, and he and his mother went far and wide,
till the mother died, and Cadmus went to Delphi—the place thought to be the centre of the earth—where
Apollo had slain the serpent Python, and where he had a temple and cavern in which every question
could be answered. Such places of divination were called oracles, and Cadmus was here told
to cease from seeking his sister, and to follow a cow till she fell down with fatigue, and
to build a city on that spot.  The poor cow went till she came into Bœotia, and there fell.
Cadmus meant to offer her up, and went to fetch water from a fountain near, but as he stooped
a fierce dragon rushed on him.  He had a hard fight to kill it, but Pallas shone out in her
beauty on him, and bade him sow its teeth in the ground.  He did so, and they sprung up as
warriors, who at once began to fight, and killed one another, all but five, who made friends,
and helped Cadmus to build the famous city called Thebes.  It is strange, after so wild a story
as this, to be told that Cadmus first taught writing in Greece, and brought the alphabet of
sixteen letters.  The Greek alphabet was really learnt from the Phœnicians, and most likely
the whole is a curious story of some settlement of that eastern people in Greece.  Most likely
they brought in the worship of the wine-god, Bacchus (Dionysos), for he was called Cadmus’s
grandson.  An orphan at first, he was brought up by the nymphs and Mercury, and then became
a great conqueror, going to India, and Egypt, and everywhere, carrying the vine and teaching
the use of wine.  He was attended by an old fat man, named Silenus, and by creatures, called
Fauns and Satyrs, like men with goats’ ears and legs; his crown was of ivy, and his chariot
was drawn by leopards, and he was at last raised to Olympus.  His feasts were called orgies;
he-goats were sacrificed at them, and songs were sung, after which there was much drinking,
and people danced holding sticks wreathed with vine and ivy leaves.  The women who danced were
called Bacchanals.  The better sort of Greeks at first would not adopt these shameful rites.
There were horrid stories of women who refused them going mad and leaping into the sea, and
the Bacchanals used to fall upon and destroy all who resisted them.

                        [Picture: Man in chariot]

CHAP. IV.—THE HERO PERSEUS.

