FALSE FRIENDS

THE SAILOR'S RESOLVE

1884

FALSE FRIENDS

     "Thorns and snares are in the way of the froward."--PROV. xxii. 5.

"Philip, your conduct has distressed me exceedingly," said Lady Grange, laying her hand on
the arm of her son, as they entered together the elegant apartment which had been fitted up
as her boudoir. "You could not but know my feelings towards those two men--I will not call
them gentlemen--whose company you have again forced upon me. You must be aware that your father
has shut the door of this house against them."

"My father has shut the door against better men than they are," said the youth carelessly;
"witness my own uncles Henry and George."

The lip of the lady quivered, the indignant colour rose even to her temples; she attempted
to speak, but her voice failed her, and she turned aside to hide her emotion.

"Well, mother, I did not mean to vex you," said Philip, who was rather weak in purpose than
hardened in evil; "it was a shame to bring Jones and Wildrake here, but--but you see I couldn't
help it." And he played uneasily with his gold-headed riding-whip, while his eye avoided meeting
that of his mother.

"They have acquired some strange influence, some mysterious hold over you," answered the lady.
"It cannot be," she added anxiously, "that you have broken your promise,--that they have drawn
you again to the gaming-table,--that you are involved in debt to these men?"

Philip whistled an air and sauntered up to the window.

Lady Grange pressed her hand over her eyes, and a sigh, a very heavy sigh, burst from her bosom.
Philip heard, and turned impatiently round.

"There's no use in making the worst of matters," said he; "what's done can't be helped; and
my debts, such as they are, won't ruin a rich man like my father."

"It is not that which I fear," said the mother faintly, with a terrible consciousness that
her son,--her hope, her pride, the delight of her heart,--had entered on a course which, if
persevered in, must end in his ruin both of body and soul. "I tremble at the thought of the
misery which you are bringing on yourself. These men are making you their victim: they are
blinding your eyes; they are throwing a net around you, and you have not the resolution to
break from the snare."

"They are very pleasant, jovial fellows!" cried Philip, trying to hide under an appearance
of careless gaiety the real annoyance which he felt at the words of his mother.

"I've asked them to dine here to-day and--"

"I shall not appear at the table," said Lady Grange, drawing herself up with dignity; "and
if your father should arrive--"

"Oh! he won't arrive to-night; he never travels so late."

"But, Philip," said the lady earnestly again laying her cold hand on his arm. She was interrupted
by her wayward and undutiful son.

"Mother, there's no use in saying anything more on the subject; it only worries you, and puts
me out of temper. I can't, and I won't be uncivil to my friends;" and turning hastily round,
Philip quitted the apartment.

"Friends!" faintly echoed Lady Grange, as she saw the door close behind her misguided son.
"Oh!" she exclaimed, throwing herself on a sofa, and burying her face, "was there ever a mother--ever
a woman so unhappy as I am!"

Her cup was indeed very bitter; it was one which the luxuries that surrounded her had not the
least power to sweeten. Her husband was a man possessing many noble qualities both of head
and heart; but the fatal love of gold, like those petrifying springs which change living twigs
to dead stone, had made him hardened, quarrelsome, and worldly. It had drawn him away from
the worship of his God; for there is deep truth in the declaration of the apostle, that the
covetous man is an idolater. It was this miserable love of gold which had induced Sir Gilbert
to break with the family of his wife, and separate her from those to whom her loving heart
still clung with the fondest affection. Lady Grange yearned for a sight of her early home;
but gold had raised a barrier between her and the companions of her childhood. And what had
the possession of gold done for the man who made it his idol? It had put snares in the path
of his only son; it had made the weak-minded but head-strong youth be entrapped by the wicked
for the sake of his wealth, as the ermine is hunted down for its rich fur. It had given to
himself heavy responsibilities, for which he would have to answer at the bar of Heaven; for
from him unto whom much has been given, much at the last day will be required.

Yes, Lady Grange was very miserable. And how did she endeavour to lighten the burden of her
misery? Was it by counting over her jewels,--looking at the costly and beautiful things which
adorned her dwelling,--thinking of her carriages and horses and glittering plate, or the number
of her rich and titled friends? No; she sought comfort where Widow Green had sought it when
her child lay dangerously ill, and there was neither a loaf on her shelf nor a penny in her
purse. The rich lady did what the poor one had done,--she fell on her knees and with tears
poured out her heart to the merciful Father of all. She told him her sorrows, she told him
her fears; she asked him for that help which she so much required. Her case was a harder one
than the widow's. A visit from the clergyman, a present from a benevolent friend, God's blessing
on a simple remedy, had soon changed Mrs. Green's sorrow into joy. The anguish of Lady Grange
lay deeper; her faith was more sorely tried; her fears were not for the bodies but the souls
of those whom she loved;--and where is the mortal who can give us a cure for the disease of sin?

While his mother was weeping and praying, Philip was revelling and drinking. Fast were the
bottles pushed round, and often were the glasses refilled. The stately banqueting-room resounded
with laughter and merriment; and as the evening advanced, with boisterous song. It was late
before the young men quitted the table; and then, heated with wine, they threw the window wide
open, to let the freshness of the night air cool their fevered temples.

Beautiful looked the park in the calm moonlight. Not a breath stirred the branches of the trees,
their dark shadows lay motionless on the green sward: perfect silence and stillness reigned
around. But the holy quietness of nature was rudely disturbed by the voices of the revellers.

With the conversation that passed I shall not soil my pages. The window opened into a broad
stone balcony, and seating themselves upon its parapet, the young men exchanged stories and
jests. After many sallies of so-called wit, Wildrake rallied Philip on the quantity of wine
which he had taken, and betted that he could not walk steadily from the one end of the balcony
to the other. Philip, with that insane pride which can plume itself on being mighty to mingle
strong drink, maintained that his head was as clear and his faculties as perfect as though
he had tasted nothing but water; and declared that he could walk round the edge of the parapet
with as steady a step as he would tread the gravel-path in the morning!

Wildrake laughed, and dared him to do it: Jones betted ten to one that he could not.

"Done!" cried Philip, and sprang up on the parapet in a moment.

"Come down again!" called out Wildrake, who had enough of sense left to perceive the folly
and danger of the wager.

Philip did not appear to hear him. Attempting to balance himself by his arms, with a slow and
unsteady step he began to make his way along the lofty and narrow edge.

The two young men held their breath. To one who with unsteady feet walks the slippery margin
of temptation, the higher his position, the greater his danger; the loftier his elevation,
the more perilous a fall!

"He will never get to the end!" said Jones, watching with some anxiety the movements of his
companion.

The words had scarcely escaped his lips when they received a startling fulfilment. Philip had
not proceeded half way along the parapet when a slight sound in the garden below him attracted
his attention. He glanced down for a moment; and there, in the cold, clear moonlight, gazing
sternly upon him, he beheld his father! The sudden start of surprise which he gave threw the
youth off his balance,--he staggered back, lost his footing, stretched out his hands wildly
to save himself, and fell with a loud cry to the ground!

All was now confusion and terror. There were the rushing of footsteps hither and thither, voices
calling, bells loudly ringing, and, above all, the voice of a mother's anguish, piercing to
the soul! Jones and Wildrake hurried off to the stables, saddled their horses themselves, and
dashed off at full speed to summon a surgeon, glad of any excuse to make their escape from
the place.

The unfortunate Philip was raised from the ground, and carried into the house. His groans showed
the severity of his sufferings. The slightest motion was to him torture, and an hour of intense
suspense ensued before the arrival of the surgeon. Lady Grange made a painful effort to be
calm. She thought of everything, did all that she could do for the relief of her son, and even
strove to speak words of comfort and hope to her husband, who appeared almost stupified by
his sorrow. Prayer was still her support--prayer, silent, but almost unceasing.

The surgeon arrived,--the injuries received by the sufferer were examined, though it was long
before Philip, unaccustomed to pain and incapable of self-control, would permit necessary measures
to be taken. His resistance greatly added to his sufferings. He had sustained a compound fracture
of his leg, besides numerous bruises and contusions. The broken bone had to be set, and the
pale mother stood by, longing, in the fervour of her unselfish love, that she could endure
the agony in the place of her son. The pampered child of luxury shrank sensitively from pain,
and the thought that he had brought all his misery upon himself by his folly and disobedience
rendered it yet more intolerable. When the surgeon had at length done his work, Lady Grange
retired with him to another apartment, and, struggling to command her choking voice, asked
him the question on the reply to which all her earthly happiness seemed to hang,--whether he
had hope that the life of her boy might be spared.

"I have every hope", said the surgeon, cheerfully, "if we can keep down the fever." Then, for
the first time since she had seen her son lie bleeding before her, the mother found the relief
of tears.

Through the long night she quitted not the sufferer's pillow, bathing his fevered brow, relieving
his thirst, whispering comfort to his troubled spirit. Soon after daybreak Philip sank into
a quiet, refreshing sleep; and Lady Grange, feeling as if a mountain's weight had been lifted
from her heart, hurried to carry the good news to her husband.

She found him in the spacious saloon, pacing restlessly to and fro. His brow was knit, his
lips compressed; his disordered dress and haggard countenance showed that he, too, had watched
the live-long night.

"He sleeps at last, Gilbert, thank God!" Her face brightened as she spoke; but there was no
corresponding look of joy on that of her husband.

"Gilbert, the doctor assures me that there is every prospect of our dear boy's restoration!"

"And to what is he to be restored?" said the father gloomily; "to poverty--misery--ruin!"

Lady Grange stood mute with surprise scarcely believing the evidence of her senses almost deeming
that the words must have been uttered in a dream. But it was no dream, but one of those strange,
stern realities which we meet with in life. Her husband indeed stood before her a ruined man!
A commercial crash, like those which have so often reduced the rich to poverty, coming almost
as suddenly as the earthquake which shakes the natural world, had overthrown all his fortune!
The riches in which he had trusted had taken to themselves wings and flown away.

Here was another startling shock, but Lady Grange felt it far less than the first. It seemed
to her that if her son were only spared to her, she could bear cheerfully any other trial.
When riches had increased, she had not set her heart upon them; she had endeavoured to spend
them as a good steward of God and to lay up treasure in that blessed place where there is no
danger of its ever being lost. Sir Gilbert was far more crushed than his wife was by this misfortune.
He saw his idol broken before his eyes, and where was he to turn for comfort? Everything upon
which his eye rested was a source of pain to him; for must he not part with all, leave all
in which his heart had delighted, all in which his soul had taken pride? He forgot that poverty
was only forestalling by a few years the inevitable work of death!

The day passed wearily away. Philip suffered much pain, was weak and low, and bitterly conscious
how well he had earned the misery which he was called on to endure. It was a mercy that he
was experiencing, before it was too late, that thorns and snares are in the way of the froward.
He liked his mother to read the Bible to him, just a few verses at a time, as he had strength
to bear it; and in this occupation she herself found the comfort which she needed. Sir Gilbert,
full of his own troubles, scarcely ever entered the apartment of his son.

Towards evening a servant came softly into the sick-room, bringing a sealed letter for her
lady. There was no post-mark upon it, and the girl informed her mistress that the gentleman
who had brought it was waiting in the garden for a reply. The first glance at the hand-writing,
at the well-known seal, brought colour to the cheek of the lady. But it was a hand-writing
which she had been forbidden to read; it was a seal which she must not break! She motioned
to the maid to take her place beside the invalid who happened at that moment to be sleeping
and with a quick step and a throbbing heart she hurried away to find her husband.

He was in his study, his arms resting on his open desk, and his head bowed down upon them.
Bills and papers, scattered in profusion on the table, showed what had been the nature of the
occupation which he had not had the courage to finish. He started from his posture of despair
as his wife laid a gentle touch on his shoulder; and, without uttering a word, she placed the
unopened letter in his hand.

My reader shall have the privilege of looking over Sir Gilbert's shoulder, and perusing the
contents of that letter:--

     "Dearest Sister,--We have heard of your trials, and warmly
     sympathize in your sorrow. Let Sir Gilbert know that we have placed
     at his banker's, after having settled it upon you, double the sum
     which caused our unhappy differences. Let the past be forgotten;
     let us again meet as those should meet who have gathered together
     round the same hearth, mourned over the same grave, and shared joys
     and sorrows together, as it is our anxious desire to do now. I
     shall be my own messenger, and shall wait in person to receive your
     reply.--Your ever attached brother,

     "HENRY LATOUR."

A few minutes more and Lady Grange was in the arms of her brother; while Sir Gilbert was silently
grasping the hand of one whom, but for misfortune, he would never have known as a friend.

All the neighbourhood pitied the gentle lady, the benefactress of the poor, when she dismissed
her servants, sold her jewels, and quitted her beautiful home to seek a humbler shelter. Amongst
the hundreds who crowded to the public auction of the magnificent furniture and plate, which
had been the admiration of all who had seen them, many thought with compassion of the late
owners, reduced to such sudden poverty, though the generosity of the lady's family had saved
them from want or dependence.

And yet truly, never since her marriage had Lady Grange been less an object of compassion.

Her son was slowly but surely recovering, and his preservation from meeting sudden death unprepared
was to her a source of unutterable thankfulness. Her own family appeared to regard her with
even more tender affection than if no coldness had ever arisen between them; and their love
was to her beyond price. Even Sir Gilbert's harsh, worldly character, was somewhat softened
by trials, and by the unmerited kindness which he met with from those whom, in his prosperity,
he had slighted and shunned. Lady Grange felt that her prayers had been answered indeed, though
in a way very different from what she had hoped or expected. The chain by which her son had
been gradually drawn down towards rum, by those who sought his company for the sake of his
money, had been suddenly snapped by the loss of his fortune. The weak youth was left to the
guidance of those to whom his welfare was really dear. Philip, obliged to rouse himself from
his indolence, and exert himself to earn his living, became a far wiser and more estimable
man than he would ever have been as the heir to a fortune; and he never forgot the lesson which
pain, weakness, and shame had taught him,--that the way of evil is also the way of sorrow.
Thorns and snares are in the way of the froward.

    Who Wisdom's path forsakes,
      Leaves all true joy behind:
    He who the peace of others breaks,
      No peace himself shall find.
    Flowers above and thorns below,
    Little pleasure, lasting woe,--
    Such is the fate that sinners know!

    The drunkard gaily sings
      Above his foaming glass;
    But shame and pain the revel brings,
      Ere many hours can pass.
    Flowers above and thorns below,
    Little pleasure, lasting woe,--
    Such is the fate that sinners know!

    The thief may count his gains;--
      If he the sum could see
    Of future punishment and pains,
      Sad would his reckoning be!
    Flowers above and thorns below,
    Little pleasure, lasting woe,--
    Such is the fate that sinners know!

    The Sabbath-breaker spurns
      What Wisdom did ordain:
    God's rest to Satan's use he turns,--
      A blessing to a bane.
    Flowers above and thorns below,
    Little pleasure, lasting woe,--
    Such is the fate which sinners know!

    O Lord, to thee we pray;
      Do thou our faith increase;
    Help us to walk in Wisdom's way,--
      The only way of peace:
    For flowers above and thorns below,
    Little pleasure, lasting woe,--
    Such is the fate which sinners know!

THE SAILOR'S RESOLVE. 22.

The old sailor Jonas sat before the fire with his pipe in his mouth, looking steadfastly into
the glowing coals. Not that, following a favourite practice of his little niece, he was making
out red-hot castles and flaming buildings in the grate, or that his thoughts were in any way
connected with the embers: he was doing what it would be well if we all sometimes did,--looking
into himself, and reflecting on what had happened in relation to his own conduct.

"So," thought he, "here am I, an honest old fellow,--I may say it, with all my faults; and
one who shrinks from falsehood more than from fire; and I find that I, with my bearish temper,
am actually driving those about me into it--teaching them to be crafty, tricky, and cowardly!
I knew well enough that my gruffness plagued others, but I never saw how it tempted others
until now; tempted them to meanness, I would say, for I have found a thousand times that an
angry man stirreth up strife, and that a short word may begin a long quarrel. I am afraid that
I have not thought enough on this matter. I've looked on bad temper as a very little sin, and
I begin to suspect that it is a great one, both in God's eyes and in the consequences that
it brings. Let me see if I can reckon up its evils! It makes those miserable whom one would
wish to make happy; it often, like an adverse gale, forces them to back, instead of steering
straight for the port. It dishonours one's profession, lowers one's flag, makes the world mock
at the religion which can leave a man as rough and rugged as a heathen savage. It's directly
contrary to the Word of God,--it's wide as east from west of the example set before us! Yes,
a furious temper is a very evil thing; I'd give my other leg to be rid of mine!" and in the
warmth of his self-reproach the sailor struck his wooden one against the hearth with such violence
as to make Alie start in terror that some fierce explosion was about to follow.

"Well, I've made up my mind as to its being an evil--a great evil," continued Jonas, in his
quiet meditation; "the next question is, how is the evil to be got rid of? There's the pinch!
It clings to one like one's skin. It's one's nature,--how can one fight against nature? And
yet, I take it, it's the very business of faith to conquer our evil nature. As I read somewhere,
any dead dog can float with the stream; it's the living dog that swims against it. I mind the
trouble I had about the wicked habit of swearing, when first I took to trying to serve God
and leave off my evil courses. Bad words came to my mouth as natural as the very air that I
breathed. What did I do to cure myself of that evil? Why, I resolved again and again, and found
that my resolutions were always snapping like a rotten cable in a storm; and I was driven from
my anchorage so often, that I almost began to despair. Then I prayed hard to be helped; and
I said to myself, 'God helps those who help themselves, and maybe if I determine to do something
that I should be sorry to do every time that an oath comes from my mouth, it would assist me
to remember my duty.' I resolved to break my pipe the first time that I swore; and I've never
uttered an oath from that day to this, not even in my most towering passions! Now I'll try
the same cure again; not to punish a sin, but to prevent it. If I fly into a fury, I'll break
my pipe! There Jonas Colter, I give you fair warning!" and the old sailor smiled grimly to
himself, and stirred the fire with an air of satisfaction.

Not one rough word did Jonas utter that evening; indeed he was remarkably silent, for the simplest
way of saying nothing evil, he thought, was to say nothing at all. Jonas looked with much pleasure
at his pipe when he put it on the mantle-piece for the night. "You've weathered this day, old
friend," said he; "we'll be on the look out against squalls to-morrow."

The next morning Jonas occupied himself in his own room with his phials, and his nephew and
niece were engaged in the kitchen in preparing for the Sunday school, which their mother made,
them regularly attend. The door was open between the two rooms and as the place was not large,
Jonas heard every word that passed between Johnny and Alie almost as well as if he had been
close beside them.

Johnny. I say, Alie--

Alie. Please, Johnny, let me learn this quietly. If I do not know it my teacher will be vexed.
My work being behind-hand yesterday has put me quite back with my tasks. You know that I cannot
learn so fast as you do.

Johnny. Oh! you've plenty of time. I want you to do something for me. Do you know that I have
lost my new ball?

Alie. Why, I saw you take it out of your pocket yesterday, just after we crossed the stile
on our way back from the farm.

Johnny. That's it! I took it out of my pocket, and I never put it in again. I want you to go
directly and look for the ball. That stile is only three fields off, you know. You must look
carefully along the path all the way; and lose no time, or some one else may pick it up.

Alie. Pray, Johnny, don't ask me to go into the fields.

Johnny. I tell you, you have plenty of time for your lessons.

Alie. It is not that, but--

Johnny. Speak out, will you?

Alie. You know--there are--cows!

Johnny burst into a loud, coarse laugh of derision. "You miserable little coward!" he cried;
"I'd like to see one chasing you round the meadow! How you'd scamper! how you'd scream! rare
fun it would be,--ha! ha! ha!"

"Rare fun would it be, sir!" exclaimed an indignant voice, as Jonas stumped from the next room,
and, seizing his nephew by the collar of his jacket, gave him a hearty shake; "rare fun would
it be,--and what do you call this? You dare twit your sister with cowardice!--you who sneaked
off yesterday like a fox because you had not the spirit to look an old man in the face!--you
who bully the weak and cringe to the strong!--you who have the manners of a bear with the heart
of a pigeon!" Every sentence was accompanied by a violent shake, which almost took the breath
from the boy; and Jonas, red with passion, concluded his speech by flinging Johnny from him
with such force that, but for the wall against which he staggered, he must have fallen to the
ground.

The next minute Jonas walked up to the mantle-piece, and exclaiming, in a tone of vexation,
"Run aground again!" took his pipe, snapped it in two, and flung the pieces into the fire!
He then stumped back to his room, slamming the door behind him.

"The old fury!" muttered the panting Johnny between his clenched teeth, looking fiercely towards
his uncle's room.

"To break his own pipe!" exclaimed Alie. "I never knew him do anything like that before, however
angry he might be!"

Johnny took down his cap from its peg, and, in as ill humour as can well be imagined, went
out to search for his ball. He took what revenge he could on his formidable uncle, while amusing
himself that afternoon by looking over his "Robinson Crusoe." Johnny was fond of his pencil,
though he had never learned to draw; and the margins of his books were often adorned with grim
heads or odd figures by his hand. There was a picture in "Robinson Crusoe" representing a party
of cannibals, as hideous as fancy could represent them, dancing around their fire. Johnny diverted
his mind and gratified his malice by doing his best so to alter the foremost figure as to make
him appear with a wooden leg, while he drew on his head a straw hat, unmistakably like that
of the old sailor, and touched up the features so as to give a dim resemblance to his face.
To prevent a doubt as to the meaning of the sketch, Johnny scribbled on the side of the picture,--

    "In search of fierce savages no one need roam;
    The fiercest and ugliest, you'll find him at home!"

He secretly showed the picture to Alie.

"O Johnny! how naughty! What would uncle say if he saw it?"

"We might look out for squalls indeed! but uncle never by any chance looks at a book of that sort."

"I think that you had better rub out the pencilling as fast as you can," said Alie.

"Catch me rubbing it out!" cried Johnny; "it's the best sketch that ever I drew, and as like
the old savage as it can stare!"

Late in the evening their mother returned from Brampton, where she had been nursing a sick
lady. Right glad were Johnny and Alie to see her sooner than they had ventured to expect. She
brought them a few oranges, to show her remembrance of them. Nor was the old sailor forgotten;
carefully she drew from her bag and presented to him a new pipe.

The children glanced at each other. Jonas took the pipe with a curious expression on his face,
which his sister was at a loss to understand.

"Thank'ee kindly," he said; "I see it'll be a case of--

    "'If ye try and don't succeed,
    Try, try, try again.'"

What he meant was a riddle to every one else present, although not to the reader.

The "try" was very successful on that evening and the following day. Never had Johnny and Alie
found their uncle so agreeable. His manner almost approached to gentleness,--it was a calm
after a storm.

"Uncle is so very good and kind," said Alie to her brother, as they walked home from afternoon
service, "that I wonder how you can bear to have that naughty picture still in your book. He
is not in the least like a cannibal, and it seems quite wrong to laugh at him so."

"I'll rub it all out one of these days," replied Johnny; "but I must show it first to Peter
Crane. He says that I never hit on a likeness: if he sees that, he'll never say so again!"

The next morning Jonas occupied himself with gathering wild flowers and herbs in the fields.
He carried them into his little room, where Johnny heard him whistling "Old Tom Bowling," like
one at peace with himself and all the world.

Presently Jonas called to the boy to bring him a knife from the kitchen; a request made in
an unusually courteous tone of voice, and with which, of course, Johnny immediately complied.

He found Jonas busy drying his plants, by laying them neatly between the pages of a book, preparatory
to pressing them down. What was the terror of Johnny when he perceived that the book whose
pages Jonas was turning over for this purpose was no other than his "Robinson Crusoe"!

"Oh! if I could only get it out of his hands before he comes to that horrid picture! Oh! what
shall I do? what shall I do?" thought the bewildered Johnny. "Uncle, I was reading that book,"
at last he mustered courage to say aloud.

"You may read it again to-morrow," was the quiet reply of Jonas.

"Perhaps he will not look at that picture," reflected Johnny. "I wish that I could see exactly
which part of the book he is at! He looks too quiet a great deal for any mischief to have been
done yet! Dear! dear! I would give anything to have that 'Robinson Crusoe' at the bottom of
the sea! I do think that my uncle's face is growing very red!--yes! the veins on his forehead
are swelling! Depend on't he's turned over to those unlucky cannibals, and will be ready to
eat me like one of them! I'd better make off before the thunder-clap comes!"

"Going to sheer off again, Master Johnny?" said the old sailor, in a very peculiar tone of
voice, looking up from the open book on which his finger now rested.

"I've a little business," stammered out Johnny.

"Yes, a little business with me, which you'd better square before you hoist sail. Why, when
you made such a good figure of this savage, did you not clap jacket and boots on this little
cannibal beside him, and make a pair of 'em 'at home'? I suspect you and I are both in the
same boat as far as regards our tempers, my lad!"

Johnny felt it utterly impossible to utter a word in reply.

"I'm afraid," pursued the seaman, closing the book, "that we've both had a bit too much of
the savage about us,--too much of the dancing round the fire. But mark me, Jack,--we learn
even in that book that a savage, a cannibal may be tamed; and we learn from something far better,
that principle,--the noblest principle which can govern either the young or the old,--may,
ay, and must, put out the fire of fierce anger in our hearts, and change us from wild beasts
to men! So I've said my say," added Jonas with a smile; "and in token of my first victory over
my old foe, come here, my boy, and give us your hand!"

"O uncle, I am so sorry!" exclaimed Johnny, with moistened eyes, as he felt the kindly grasp
of the old man.

"Sorry are you? and what were you on Saturday when I shook you as a cat shakes a rat?"

"Why, uncle, I own that I was angry."

"Sorry now, and angry then? So it's clear that the mild way has the best effect, to say nothing
of the example." And Jonas fell into a fit of musing.

All was fair weather and sunshine in the home on that day, and on many days after. Jonas had,
indeed, a hard struggle to subdue his temper, and often felt fierce anger rising in his heart,
and ready to boil over in words of passion or acts of violence; but Jonas, as he had endeavoured
faithfully to serve his Queen, while he fought under her flag, brought the same earnest and
brave sense of duty to bear on the trials of daily life. He never again forgot his resolution,
and every day that passed made the restraint which he laid upon himself less painful and irksome
to him.

If the conscience of any of my readers should tell him that, by his unruly temper, he is marring
the peace of his family, oh! let him not neglect the evil as a small one, but, like the poor
old sailor in my story, resolutely struggle against it.

    There is sin in commencing strife;
      Sin in the thoughtless jest
        Or angry burst,
        Which awakens first
      The ire in a brother's breast!

    There is sin in stirring up strife,
      In fanning the smouldering flame,
        By scornful eye,
        Or proud reply,
      Or anger-stirring name.

    There is sin in keeping up strife,
      Dark, soul-destroying sin.
        Who cherishes hate
        May seek heaven's gate,
      But never can enter in.

    For peace is the Christian's joy,
      And love is the Christian's life;
        He's bound for a home
        Where hate cannot come,
      Nor the shadow of sin or strife!

