Martin Family (Vol. ii., p. 392.).--CLERICUS asks for information touching the family of Martin,
"in or near Wivenhoe, Essex." There is a large house in the village, said to have been the
seat of Matthew Martin, Esq., member for Colchester in the second parliaments of George I.
and II. He died in 1749. He had been a commander in the service of the East India Company.
Only one party of the name now lives in the neighbourhood, but whether he is of the family
or not I cannot say. He is described as "Edward Martin, Master, Royal Navy."

A.A.

Swords used in Dress (Vol. i. 415.; vol. ii. 110. 213. 388.).--Might it not have happened that
swords went out of fashion after the middle of the last century, and were revived towards its
close? In old prints from 1700 to 1720, they appear to have been universally worn; later they
are not so general. In 1776-90, they appear again. My grandmother (born in 1760) well remembers
her brother, of nearly her own age, wearing a sword, say about 1780. Some of Fielding's heroes
wore "hangers."

A.A.

Clerical Costume (Vol. ii., pp. 22. 189.).--The use of scarlet cloth is popularly recommended
in Berks and in Devon as a cure for the rheumatism. It should be wrapped round the "ailing" limb.

H.G.T.

Tristan d'Acunha (Vol. ii., p. 358.).--The latest and best description of this isle is to be
found in A Narrative of a Nine Months' Residence in New Zealand, together with a Journal of
a Residence in Tristan d'Acunha. By A. Earle. Longmans, 1832.

GOMER.

Swearing by Swans (Vol. ii., pp. 392. 451.).--Though I can give no reason why the birds of
Juno should have been invoked as witnesses to an oath, the Query about them has suggested to
me what may perhaps appear rather an irrelevant little note.

Cooper, in his Raven's Nest, makes Mr. Aristobulus Brag use the provincialism "I swanny;" "by
which," observes the author, "I suppose he meant--I swear!" Of course, this has nothing to
do with swearing by swans, more than sounding like it; argument of sound being very different
from sound argument. Mr. Cooper does not seem to have given a thought to the analysis of the
phrase, which is no oath, merely an innocent asseveration. "I's-a-warrant-ye" (perhaps when
resolved to its ungrammatical elements, "I is a warranty to ye") proceeds through "I's-a-warnd-ye,"
"I's-warn-ye" (all English provincialisms,) to its remote transatlantic ultimatum of debasement
in "I swanny."

G.J. CAYLEY.

Mildew in Books (Vol. ii., p. 103).--In reply to B., who inquires for a prevention for mildew
in books, I send the following receipt, which I have copied from a book containing many others:--"Take
a feather dipt in spirits of wine, and lightly wash over the backs and covers. To prevent mould,
put a little into writing ink."

Another to take mildew out of linen.--"Mix powdered starch and soft soap with half the quantity
of bay salt; mix it with vinegar, and lay it on both sides with a painter's brush. Then let
it lie in the open air till the spots are out."

J.R.

"Swinging Tureen," (Vol. i., pp. 246. 307.

  Herrick, cited in Ellis' Brand, ed. 1849, vol. i. p. 26.

By the way, is not the "lanycoll" (so called, I presume, from the froth like wool (lana) at
the neck (collum) of the vessel), mentioned in the old ballad of "King Edward and the Shepherd"
(Hartshorne's Met. Tales, p. 54.), the same beverage as "lamb's-wool?"

H.G.T.

Totness Church (Vol. ii., pp. 376. 452.).--My thanks are due to your correspondent S.S.S. for
kindly furnishing information as to the singular arched passage mentioned in a former note,
which drew my attention as a casual visitor, and which {30} certainly appears to be the "iter
processionale" referred to in the will of William Ryder. Any information as to the subject
of the good woman's tradition would be very acceptable. Perhaps S.S.S. will allow me, in return
for his satisfactory explanation of the "dark passage" in question, to over a very luminous
passage in confirmation of his view of Goldsmith's.

H.G.T.

Lights on the Altar (Vol. ii., p. 495.).--In the 42nd canon of those enacted under King Edgar
(Thorpe's Ancient Laws and Institutes of England, vol. ii. pp. 252-3.) we find:--

    "Let there be always burning lights in the church when mass is
    singing."

And in the 14th of the canons of Ælfric (pp. 348-9. of the same volume):--

    "Acoluthus he is called, who bears the candle or taper in God's
    ministries when the Gospel is read, or when the housel is hallowed at
    the altar: not to dispel, as it were, the dim darkness, but, with that
    light, to announce bliss, in honour of Christ who is our light."

C.W.G.

Time when Herodotus wrote (Vol. ii., p. 405.).--The passage quoted by your correspondent A.W.H.
affords, I think, a reasonable argument to prove that Herodotus did not commence his work until
an advanced age; most probably between the ages of seventy and seventy-seven years. Moreover,
there are various other reasons to justify the same conclusion; all which A.W.H. will find
stated in Dr. Smith's Dictionary of Greek and Roman Biography and Mythology, vol. ii. I believe
A.W.H. is correct in his supposition that the passage has not been noticed before.

T.H. KERSLEY, A.B.

King William's College.

Adur (Vol. ii., p. 108.).--The connexion of the Welsh ydwr with the Greek [Greek: hydor] is
remarkable. Can any of your readers tell me whether there be not an older Welsh word for water?
There are, I know, two sets of Welsh numerals, of which the later contains many Greek words,
but the older are entirely different. Is not cader akin to [Greek: kathedra], and glas to [Greek:
glaukos]?

J.W.H.

The Word "Alarm" (Vol. ii., pp. 151. 183.).--I send you an instance of the accurate use of
the word "alarm" which may be interesting. In an account of the attempt made on the 29th of
Oct. 1795, to assassinate Geo. III., the Earl of Onslow (as cited in Maunder's Universal Biog.
p. 321.) uses the following expression:--

    "His Majesty showed, and, I am persuaded, felt, no alarm; much less did
    he fear."

Is not this a good instance of the true difference of meaning in these two words, which are
now loosely used as if strictly synonymous?

H.G.T.

The Conquest (Vol. ii., p 440).--W.L. is informed that I have before me several old parchment
documents or title-deeds, in which the words "post conquestum" are used merely to express (as
part of their dates) the year after the accession of those kings respectively in whose reigns
those documents were made.

P.H.F.

Land Holland (Vol. ii., p. 267. 345.).--J.B.C. does not say in what part of England he finds
this term used. Holland, in Lincolnshire, is by Ingulph called Hoiland, a name which has been
thought to mean hedgeland, in allusion to the sea-walls or hedges by which it was preserved
from inundation. Other etymologies have also been proposed. (See Gough's Camden, "Lincolnshire.")
In Norfolk, however, the term olland is used, Forby tells us, for "arable land which has been
laid down in grass more than two years, q.d. old-land." In a Norfolk paper of few months since,
in an advertisement of a ploughing match, I observe a prize is offered "To the ploughman, with
good character, who shall plough a certain quantity of olland within the least time, in the
best manner."

C.W.G.

       *       *       *       *       *

MISCELLANEOUS.

NOTES ON BOOKS, SALES, CATALOGUES, ETC.

