It is found under these conditions that the natural speed made by the eye in passing the 9-cm.
opening ON is very well approximated by the pendulum if the latter is allowed to fall through
23.5° of its arc, the complete swing being therefore 47°. The middle point of the pendulum
is then found to move from O to N in 110[sigma][19]. If the eye sweeps from O to N in the same
time, it will be moving at an angular velocity of 1° in 11.98[sigma] (since the 9 cm. are 9°
11' of eye-movement). This rate is much less than that found by Dodge and Cline (op. cit.,
p. 155), who give the time for an eye-movement of 40° as 99.9[sigma], which is an average of
only 2.49[sigma] to the degree. Voluntary eye-movements, like other voluntary movements, can
of course be slow or fast according to conditions. After the pendulum has been swinging for
some time, so that its amplitude of movement has fallen below the initial 47° and therewith
its speed past the middle point has been diminished, the eye in its movements back and forth
between the fixation-points can still catch the after-image of i perfectly distinct and not
at all horizontally elongated, as it would have to be if eye and pendulum had not moved just
together. It appears from this that certain motives are able to retard the rate of voluntary
movements of the eye, even when the distance traversed is constant.

   [19] The speed of the pendulum is measured by attaching a
   tuning-fork of known vibration-rate to the pendulum, and
   letting it write on smoked paper as the pendulum swings past
   the 9-cm. opening.

The experiment is now as follows. The room is darkened. Card T is dropped into groove z, while
I is put in groove y and swings with the pendulum. One eye alone is used.

Case 1. The eye is fixed in the direction EA. The pendulum is allowed to swing through its
47°. The resulting visual image is shown in Fig. 7:1. Its shape is of course like T, Fig. 6,
but the part H is less bright than the rest because it is exposed a shorter time, owing to
the narrowness of the handle of the dumb-bell, which swings by and mediates the exposure. Sheets
of milk-glass are now dropped into the back groove of BB, until the light is so tempered that
part H (Fig. 7:1) is barely but unmistakably visible as luminous. The intensity actually used
by the writer, relative to that of EE, is fairly shown in the figure. (See Plate III.)

It is clear, if the eye were now to move with the pendulum, that the same amount of light would
reach the retina, but that it would be concentrated on a horizontally narrower area. And if
the eye moves exactly with the pendulum, the visual image will be no longer like 1 but like
2 (Fig. 7). We do not as yet know how the intensities of e, e and h will relatively appear.
To ascertain this we must put card I into groove x, and let card T swing with the pendulum
in groove y. If the eye is again fixed in the direction EA (Fig. 5), the retina receives exactly
the same stimulation that it would have received before the cards were shifted if it had moved
exactly at the rate of the pendulum. In the experiments described, the handle h of this image
(Fig. 7:2) curiously enough appears of the same brightness as the two ends e, e, although,
as we know, it is stimulated for a briefer interval. Nor can any difference between e, e and
h be detected in the time of disappearance of their after-images. These conditions are therefore
generous. The danger is that h of the figure, the only part of the stimulation which could
possibly quite elapse during the movement, is still too bright to do so.

Case 2. The cards are replaced in their first positions, T in groove z, I in groove y which
swings. The subject is now asked to make voluntary eye-sweeps from P to P' and back, timing
his moment of starting so as to bring his axis of vision on to the near side of opening ON
at approximately the same time as the pendulum brings I on the same point. This is a delicate
matter and requires practice. Even then it would be impossible, if the subject were not allowed
to get the rhythm of the pendulum before passing judgment on the after-images. The pendulum
used gives a slight click at each end of its swing, and from the rhythm of this the subject
is soon able to time the innervation of his eye so that the exposure coincides with the middle
of the eye-movement.

It is true that with every swing the pendulum moves more slowly past ON, and the period of
exposure is lengthened. This, however, only tends to make the retinal image brighter, so that
its disappearance during an anæsthesia would be so much the less likely. The pendulum may therefore
be allowed to 'run down' until its swing is too slow for the eye to move with it, that is,
too slow for a distinct, non-elongated image of i to be caught in transit on the retina.

With these eye-movements, the possible appearances are of two classes, according to the localization
of the after-image. The image is localized either at A (Fig. 5), or at the final fixation-point
(P or P', according to the direction of the movement). Localized at A, the image may be seen
in either of two shapes. First, it may be identical with 1, Fig. 7. It is seen somewhat peripherally,
judgment of indirect vision, and is correctly localized at A. When the subject's eye is watched,
it is found that in this case it moved either too soon or too late, so that when the exposure
was made, the eye was resting quietly on one of the fixation-points and so naturally received
the same image as in case 1, except that now it lies in indirect vision, the eye being directed
not toward A (as in case 1) but towards either P or P'.

Second, the image correctly localized may be like 2 (Fig. 7), and then it is seen to move past
the opening ON. The handle h looks as bright as e, e. This appearance once obtained generally
recurs with each successive swing of the pendulum, and scrutiny of the subject's eye shows
it to be moving, not by separate voluntary innervations from P to P' and then from P' to P,
but continuously back and forth with the swing of the pendulum, much as the eye of a child
passively follows a moving candle. This movement is purely reflex,[20] governed probably by
cerebellar centers. It seems to consist in a rapid succession of small reflex innervations,
and is very different from the type of movement in which one definite innervation carries the
eye through its 42°, and which yielded the phenomena with the perimeter. A subject under the
spell of this reflex must be exercised in innervating his eye to move from P to P' and back
in single, rapid leaps. For this, the pendulum is to be motionless and the eye is not to be
stimulated during its movement.

   [20] Exner, Sigmund, Zeitschrift f. Psychologie u. Physiologie
   der Sinnesorgane, 1896, XII., S. 318. 'Entwurf zu einer
   physiologischen Erklärung der psychischen Erscheinungen,'
   Leipzig u. Wien, 1894, S. 128. Mach, Ernst, 'Beiträge zur
   Analyse der Empfindungen,' Jena, 1900, S. 98.

These two cases in which the image is localized midway between P and P' interest us no further.
Localized on the final fixation-point, the image is always felt to flash out suddenly in situ,
just as in the case of the 'correctly localized' after-image streaks in the experiments with
the perimeter. The image appears in one of four shapes, Fig. 7: 2 or 3, 4 or 5.

First, the plain or elongated outline of the dumb-bell appears with its handle on the final
fixation-point (2 or 3). The image is plain and undistorted if the eye moves at just the rate
of the pendulum, elongated if the eye moves more rapidly or more slowly. The point that concerns
us is that the image appears with its handle. Two precautions must here be observed.

The eye does not perhaps move through its whole 42°, but stops instead just when the exposure
is complete, that is, stops on either O or N and considerably short of P or P'. It then follows
that the exposure is given at the very last part of the movement, so that the after-image of
even the handle h has not had time to subside. The experiment is planned so that the after-image
of h shall totally elapse during that part of the movement which occurs after the exposure,
that is, while the eye is completing its sweep of 42°, from O to P, or else from N to P'. If
the arc is curtailed at point O or N, the handle of the dumb-bell will of course appear. The
fact can always be ascertained by asking the subject to notice very carefully where the image
is localized. If the eye does in fact stop short at O or N, the image will be there localized,
although the subject may have thoughtlessly said before that it was at P or P', the points
he had nominally had in mind.

But the image 2 or 3 may indeed be localized quite over the final fixation-point. In this case
the light is to be looked to. It is too bright, as it probably was in the case of Dodge's experiments.
It must be further reduced; and with the eye at rest, the control (case I) must be repeated.
In the experiments here described it was always found possible so to reduce the light that
the distinct, entire image of the dumb-bell (2, Fig. 7) never appeared localized on the final
fixation-point, although in the control, H, of Fig. 7:1, was always distinctly visible.

With these two precautions taken, the image on the final fixation-point is like either 3, 4,
or 5. Shape 5 very rarely appears, while the trained subject sees 4 and 3 each about one half
the times; and either may be seen for as many as fifteen times in succession.

Shape 4 is of course exactly the appearance which this experiment takes to be crucial evidence
of a moment of central anæsthesia, before the image is perceived and during which the stimulation
of the handle h completely elapses. Eight subjects saw this phenomenon distinctly and, after
some training in timing their eye-movements, habitually. The first appearance of the handleless
image was always a decided surprise to the subject (as also to the writer), and with some eagerness
each hastened to verify the phenomenon by new trials.

The two ends (e, e) of the dumb-bell seem to be of the same intensity as in shape 2 when seen
in reflex movement. But there is no vestige whatsoever of a handle. Two of the subjects stated
that for them the place where the handle should have been, appeared of a velvety blackness
more intense than the rest of the background. The writer was not able to make this observation.
It coincides interestingly with that of von Kries,[21] who reports as to the phases of fading
after-images, that between the disappearance of the primary image and the appearance of the
'ghost,' a moment of the most intense blackness intervenes. The experiments with the pendulum,
however, brought out no ghost.

   [21] Von Kries, J., Zeitschr. f. Psych, u. Physiol. d.
   Sinnesorgane, 1896, XII., S. 88.

We must now enquire why in about half the cases shape 3 is still seen, whereas shape 5 occurs
very rarely. Some of the subjects, among whom is the writer, never saw 5 at all. We should
expect that with the intensity of H sufficiently reduced 4 and 5 would appear with equal frequency,
whereas 3 would be seen no oftener than 2; shape 5 appearing when the eye did not, and 4 when
it did, move at just the rate of the pendulum. It is certain that when 4 is seen, the eye has
caught just the rate of the pendulum, and that for 3 or 5 it has moved at some other rate.
We have seen above (p. 27) that to move with the pendulum the eye must already move decidedly
more slowly than Dodge and Cline find the eye generally to move. Nothing so reliable in regard
to the rate of voluntary eye-movements as these measurements of Dodge and Cline had been published
at the time when the experiments on anæsthesia were carried on, and it is perhaps regrettable
that in the 'empirical' approximation of the natural rate of the eye through 40° the pendulum
was set to move so slowly.

In any case it is highly probable that whenever the eye did not move at just the rate of the
pendulum, it moved more rapidly rather than more slowly. The image is thus horizontally elongated,
by an amount which varies from the least possible up to 9 cm. (the width of the opening in
T), or even more. And while the last of the movement (O to P, or N to P'), in which the stimulation
of H' is supposed to subside, is indeed executed, it may yet be done so rapidly that after
all H' cannot subside, not even although it is now less intense by being horizontally spread
out (that is, less concentrated than the vanished h of shape 4). This explanation is rendered
more probable by the very rare appearance of shape 5, which must certainly emerge if ever the
eye were to move more slowly than the pendulum.

The critical fact is, however, that shape 4 does appear to a trained subject in about one half
the trials--a very satisfactory ratio when one considers the difficulty of timing the beginning
of the movement and its rate exactly to the pendulum.

Lastly, in some cases no image appears at all. This was at first a source of perplexity, until
it was discovered that the image of the dumb-bell, made specially small so as to be contained
within the area of distinct vision, could also be contained on the blind-spot. With the pendulum
at rest the eye could be so fixed as to see not even the slight halo which diffuses in the
eye and seems to lie about the dumb-bell. It may well occur, then, that in a movement the image
happens to fall on the blind-spot and not on the fovea. That this accounts for the cases where
no image appears, is proved by the fact that if both eyes are used, some image is always seen.
A binocular image under normal convergence can of course not fall on both blind-spots. It may
be further said that the shape 4 appears as well when both eyes are used as with only one.
The experiment may indeed as well be carried on with both eyes.

Some objections must be answered. It may be said that the image of h happens to fall on the
blind-spot, e and e being above and below the same. This is impossible, since the entire image
and its halo as well may lie within the blind-spot. If now h is to be on the blind-spot, at
least one of the end-circles e, e will be there also, whereas shape 4 shows both end-circles
of the dumb-bell with perfect distinctness.

Again, it cannot properly be urged that during the movement the attention was distracted so
as not to 'notice' the handle. The shape of a dumb-bell was specially chosen for the image
so that the weaker part of the stimulation should lie between two points which should be clearly
noticed. Indeed, if anything, one might expect this central, connecting link in the image to
be apperceptively filled in, even when it did not come to consciousness as immediate sensation.
And it remains to ask what it is which should distract the attention.

In this connection the appearance under reflex eye-movement compares interestingly with that
under voluntary. If the wall WONW (Fig. 5) is taken from before the pendulum, and the eye allowed
to move reflexly with the swinging dumb-bell, the entire image is seen at each exposure, the
handle seeming no less bright than the end-circles. Moreover, as the dumb-bell opening swings
past the place of exposure and the image fades, although the handle must fade more quickly
than the ends, yet this is not discernible, and the entire image disappears without having
at any time presented the handleless appearance.

B. Another test for this anæsthesia during movement is offered in the following experiment.
It is clear that, just as a light-stimulation is not perceived if the whole retinal process
begins and ends during a movement, so also a particular phase of it should not be perceived
if that phase can be given complete within the time of the movement. The same pendulum which
was used in the previous experiment makes such a thing possible. If in place of the perforated
dumb-bell the pendulum exposes two pieces of glass of nearly complementary colors, one after
the other coming opposite the place of exposure, the sensations will fuse or will not fuse
according as the pendulum swings rapidly or slowly. But now a mean rate of succession can be
found such as to let the first color be seen pure before the second is exposed, and then to
show the second fused with the after-image of the first. Under some conditions the second will
persist after the first has faded, and will then itself be seen pure. Thus there may be three
phases in consciousness. If the first color exposed is green and the second red, the phases
of sensation will be green, white, and perhaps red. These phases are felt to be not simultaneous
but successive. A modification of this method is used in the following experiment. (See Fig.
8, Plate IV.)

T and I here correspond to the cards T and I of Fig. 6. T consists of a rectangular opening,
9×5 cm., which contains three pieces of glass, two pieces of green at the ends, each 2.8 cm.
wide and 7 cm. high, and a piece of red glass in the middle 3.4 cm. wide and only 1.5 cm. high,
the space above and below this width being filled with opaque material. The shape of the image
is determined as before by the hole in I, which now, instead of being a dumb-bell, is merely
a rectangular hole 2 cm. wide and 5 cm. high. Exactly as before, T is fixed in the background
and I swings with the pendulum, the eye moving with it.

The speed of the pendulum must be determined, such that if I lies in the front groove (Fig.
5, x) and the eye is at rest, the image will clearly show two phases of color when T swings
past on the pendulum. With T and I as described above, a very slow pendulum shows the image
green, red (narrow), and green, in succession. A very fast pendulum shows only a horizontal
straw-yellow band on a green field (Fig. 8:5). There is but one phase and no feeling of succession.
Between these two rates is one which shows two phases--the first a green field with a horizontal,
reddish-orange band (Fig. 8:3), the second quickly following, in which the band is straw-yellow
(5). It might be expected that this first phase would be preceded by an entirely green phase,
since green is at first exposed. Such is however not the case. The straw-yellow of the last
phase is of course the fusion-color of the red and green glasses. It would be gray but that
the two colors are not perfectly complementary. Since the arrangement of colors in T is bilaterally
symmetrical, the successive phases are the same in whichever direction the pendulum swings.

It is desirable to employ the maximum rate of pendulum which will give the two phases. For
this the illumination should be very moderate, since the brighter it is, the slower must be
the pendulum. With the degree of illumination used in the experiments described, it was found
that the pendulum must fall from a height of only 9.5° of its arc: a total swing of 19°. The
opening of T, which is 9 cm. wide, then swings past the middle point of I in 275[sigma].

Now when the eye moves it must move at this rate. If the eye is 56 cm. distant from the opening,
as in the previous case, the 9 cm. of exposure are 9° 11' of eye-movement, and we saw above
that 9° 11' in 110[sigma] is a very slow rate of movement, according to the best measurements.
Now it is impossible for the eye to move so slowly as 9° 11' in 275[sigma]. If, however, the
eye is brought nearer to the opening, it is clear that the 9 cm. of exposure become more than
9° 11' of eye-movement. Therefore the eye and the fixation-points are so placed that EA (Fig.
5) = 26 cm. and PP' = 18 cm. The total eye-movement is thus 38° 11', of which the nine-centimeter
distance of exposure is 19° 38'. Now the eye is found to move very well through 19° 38' in
275[sigma], although, again, this is much more than a proportionate part of the total time
(99.9[sigma]) given by Dodge and Cline for a movement of the eye through 40°. The eye is in
this case also moving slowly. As before, it is permissible to let the pendulum run down till
it swings too slowly for the eye to move with it; since any lessened speed of the pendulum
only makes the reddish-orange phase more prominent.

As in the experiment with the dumb-bell, we have also here three cases: the control, the case
of the eye moving, and again a control.

Case 1. T swings with the pendulum. I is placed in the front groove, and the eye looks straight
forward without moving. The pendulum falls from 9.5° at one side, and the illumination is so
adjusted that the phase in which the band is reddish-orange, is unmistakably perceived before
that in which it is straw-yellow. The appearance must be 3 followed by 5 (Fig. 8).

Case 2. T is fixed in the background, I on the pendulum, and the phenomena are observed with
the eye moving.

Case 3. A repetition of case 1, to make sure that no different adaptation or fatigue condition
of the eye has come in to modify the appearance of the two successive phases as at first seen.

The possible appearances to the moving eye are closely analogous to those in the dumb-bell
experiment. If the eye moves too soon or too late, so that it is at rest during the exposure,
the image is like T itself (Fig. 8) but somewhat fainter and localized midway between the points
P and P'. If the eye moves reflexly at the rate of the pendulum, the image is of the shape
i and shows the two phases (3 followed by 5). It is localized in the middle and appears to
move across the nine-centimeter opening.

A difficulty is met here which was not found in the case of the dumb-bell. The eye is very
liable to come to a full stop on one of the colored surfaces, and then to move quickly on again
to the final fixation-point. And this happens contrary to the intention of the subject, and
indeed usually without his knowledge. This stopping is undoubtedly a reflex process, in which
the cerebellar mechanism which tends to hold the fixation on any bright object, asserts itself
over the voluntary movement and arrests the eye on the not moving red or green surface as the
exposure takes place. A comparable phenomenon was found sometimes in the experiment with the
dumb-bell, where an eye-movement commenced as voluntary would end as a reflex following of
the pendulum. In the present experiment, until the subject is well trained, the stopping of
the eye must be watched by a second person who looks directly at the eye-ball of the subject
during each movement. The appearances are very varied when the eye stops, but the typical one
is shown in Fig. 8:1. The red strip AB is seldom longer and often shorter than in the figure.
That part of it which is superposed on the green seldom shows the orange phase, being almost
always of a pure straw-yellow. The localization of these images is variable. All observations
made during movements in which the eye stops, are of course to be excluded.

If now the eye does not stop midway, and the image is not localized in the center, the appearance
is like either 2, 4, or 5, and is localized over the final fixation-point. 2 is in all probability
the case of the eye moving very much faster than the pendulum, so that if the movement is from
left to right, the right-hand side of the image is the part first exposed (by the uncovering
of the left-hand side of T), which is carried ahead by the too swift eye-movement and projected
in perception on the right of the later portion. 3 is the case of the eye moving at very nearly
but not quite the rate of the pendulum. The image which should appear 2 cm. wide (like the
opening i) appears about 3 cm. wide. The middle band is regularly straw-yellow, extremely seldom
reddish, and if we could be sure that the eye moves more slowly than the pendulum, so that
the succession of the stimuli is even slower than in the control, and the red phase is surely
given, this appearance (3) would be good evidence of anæsthesia during which the reddish-orange
phase elapses. It is more likely, however, that the eye is moving faster than the pendulum,
but whether or not so inconsiderably faster as still to let the disappearance of the reddish
phase be significant of anæsthesia, is not certain until one shall have made some possible
but tedious measurements of the apparent width of the after-image. Both here and in the following
case the feeling of succession, noticeable between the two phases when the eye is at rest,
has disappeared with the sensation of redness.

The cases in which 5 is seen are, however, indisputably significant. The image is apparently
of just the height and width of i, and there is not the slightest trace of the reddish-orange
phase. The image flashes out over the final fixation-point, green and straw-yellow, just as
the end-circles of the dumb-bell appeared without their handle. The rate of succession of the
stimuli, green--red--green, on the retina, is identical with that rate which showed the two
phases to the resting eye: for the pendulum is here moving at the very same rate, and the eye
is moving exactly with the pendulum, as is shown by the absence of any horizontal elongation
of the image seen. The trained subject seldom sees any other images than 4 and 5, and these
with about equal frequency, although either is often seen in ten or fifteen consecutive trials.
As in the cases of the falsely localized images and of the handleless dumb-bell, movements
of both eyes, as well as of the head but not the eyes, yield the same phenomena. It is interesting
again to compare the appearance under reflex movement. If at any time during the experiments
the eye is allowed to follow the pendulum reflexly, the image is at once and invariably seen
to pass through its two phases as it swings past the nine-centimeter opening.

The frequent and unmistakable appearance of this band of straw-yellow on a non-elongated green
field without the previous phase in which the band is reddish-orange, although this latter
was unmistakable when the same stimulation was given to the eye at rest, is authenticated by
eight subjects. This appearance, together with that of the handleless dumb-bell, is submitted
as a demonstration that during voluntary movements of the eyes, and probably of the head as
well, there is a moment in which stimulations are not transmitted from the retina to the cerebral
cortex, that is, a moment of central anæsthesia. The reason for saying 'and probably of the
head as well,' is that although the phenomena described are gotten equally well from movements
of the head, yet it is not perfectly certain that when the head moves the eyes do not also
move slightly within the head, even when the attempt is made to keep them fixed.

Most of the criticisms which apply to this last experiment apply to that with the dumb-bell
and have already been answered. There is one however which, while applying to that other, more
particularly applies here. It would be, that these after-images are too brief and indistinct
to be carefully observed, so that judgments as to their shape, size, and color are not valid
evidence. This is a perfectly sensible criticism, and a person thoroughly convinced of its
force should repeat the experiments and decide for himself what reliance he will place on the
judgments he is able to make. The writer and those of the subjects who are most trained in
optical experiments find the judgments so simple and easily made as not to be open to doubt.

In the first place, it should be remembered that only those cases are counted in which the
movement was so timed that the image was seen in direct vision, that is, was given on or very
near the fovea. In such cases a nice discrimination of the shape and color of the images is
easily possible.

Secondly, the judgments are in no case quantitative, that is, they in no case depend on an
estimate of the absolute size of any part of the image. At most the proportions are estimated.
In the case of the dumb-bell the question is, Has the figure a handle? The other question,
Are the end-circles horizontally elongated? has not to be answered with mathematical accuracy.
It is enough if the end-circles are approximately round, or indeed are narrower than 9 cm.
horizontally, for at even that low degree of concentration the handle was still visible to
the resting eye. Again, in the experiment with the color-phases, only two questions are essential
to identify the appearance 5: Does the horizontal yellow band extend quite to both edges of
the image? and, Is there certainly no trace of red or orange to be seen? The first question
does not require a quantitative judgment, but merely one as to whether there is any green visible
to the right or left of the yellow strip. Both are therefore strictly questions of quality.
And the two are sufficient to identify appearance 5, for if no red or orange is visible, images
1, 2, and 3 are excluded; and if no green lies to the right or left of the yellow band, image
4 is excluded. Thus if one is to make the somewhat superficial distinction between qualitative
and quantitative judgments, the judgments here required are qualitative. Moreover, the subjects
make these judgments unhesitatingly.

Finally, the method of making judgments on after-images is not new in psychology. Lamansky's
well-known determination of the rate of eye-movements[22] depends on the possibility of counting
accurately the number of dots in a row of after-images. A very much bolder assumption is made
by Guillery[23] in another measurement of the rate of eye-movements. A trapezoidal image was
generated on the moving retina, and the after-image of this was projected on to a plane bearing
a scale of lines inclining at various angles. On this the degree of inclination of one side
of the after-image was read off, and thence the speed of the eye-movement was calculated. In
spite of the boldness of this method, a careful reading of Guillery's first article cited above
will leave no doubt as to its reliability, and the accuracy of discrimination possible on these
after-images.

   [23] Guillery, (Pflüger's) Archiv f. d. ges. Physiologie, 1898,
   LXXI., S. 607; and 1898, LXXIII., S. 87.

As to judgments on the color and color-phases of after-images, there is ample precedent in
the researches of von Helmholtz, Hering, Hess, von Kries, Hamaker, and Munk. It is therefore
justifiable to assume the possibility of making accurately the four simple judgments of shape
and color described above, which are essential to the two proofs of anæsthesia.

V. SUMMARY AND COROLLARIES OF THE EXPERIMENTS, AND A PARTIAL, PHYSIOLOGICAL INTERPRETATION
OF THE CENTRAL ANÆSTHESIA.

We have now to sum up the facts given by the experiments. The fact of central anæsthesia during
voluntary movement is supported by two experimental proofs, aside from a number of random observations
which seem to require this anæsthesia for their explanation. The first proof is that if an
image of the shape of a dumb-bell is given to the retina during an eye-movement, and in such
a way that the handle of the image, while positively above the threshold of perception, is
yet of brief enough duration to fade completely before the end of the movement, it then happens
that both ends of the dumb-bell are seen but the handle not at all. The fact of its having
been properly given to the retina is made certain by the presence of the now disconnected ends.

The second proof is that, similarly, if during an eye-movement two stimulations of different
colors are given to the retina, superposed and at such intensity and rate of succession as
would show to the resting eye two successive phases of color (in the case taken, reddish-orange
and straw-yellow), it then happens that the first phase, which runs its course and is supplanted
by the second before the movement is over, is not perceived at all. The first phase was certainly
given, because the conditions of the experiment require the orange to be given if the straw-yellow
is, since the straw-yellow which is seen can be produced only by the addition of green to the
orange which is not seen.

These two phenomena seem inevitably to demonstrate a moment during which a process on the retina,
of sufficient duration and intensity ordinarily to determine a corresponding conscious state,
is nevertheless prevented from doing so. One inclines to imagine a retraction of dendrites,
which breaks the connection between the central end of the optic nerve and the occipital centers
of vision.

The fact of anæsthesia demonstrated, other phenomena are now available with further information.
From the phenomena of the 'falsely localized' images it follows that at least in voluntary
eye-movements of considerable arc (30° or more), the anæsthesia commences appreciably later
than the movement. The falsely localized streak is not generated before the eye moves, but
is yet seen before the correctly localized streak, as is shown by the relative intensities
of the two. The anæsthesia must intervene between the two appearances. The conjecture of Schwarz,
that the fainter streak is but a second appearance of the stronger, is undoubtedly right.

We know too that the anæsthesia depends on a mechanism central of the retina, for stimulations
are received during movement but not transmitted to consciousness till afterward. This would
be further shown if it should be found that movements of the head, no less than those of the
eyes, condition the anæsthesia. As before said, it is not certain that the eyes do not move
slightly in the head while the head moves. The movement of the eyes must then be very slight,
and the anæsthesia correspondingly either brief or discontinuous. Whereas, the phenomena are
the same when the head moves 90° as when the eyes move that amount. It seems probable, then,
that voluntary movements of the head do equally condition the anæsthesia.

We have seen, too, that in reflex eye-or head-movements no anæsthesia is so far to be demonstrated.
The closeness with which the eye follows the unexpected gyrations of a slowly waving rush-light,
proves that the reflex movement is produced by a succession of brief impulses (probably from
the cerebellum), each one of which carries the eye through only a very short distance. It is
an interesting question, whether there is an instant of anæsthesia for each one of these involuntary
innervations--an instant too brief to be revealed by the experimental conditions employed above.
The seeming continuity of the sensation during reflex movement would of course not argue against
such successive instants of anæsthesia, since no discontinuity of vision during voluntary movement
is noticeable, although a relatively long moment of anæsthesia actually intervenes.

But decidedly the most interesting detail about the anæsthesia is that shown by the extreme
liability of the eye to stop reflexly on the red or the green light, in the second experiment
with the pendulum. Suppose the eye to be moving from P to P' (Fig. 5); the anæsthesia, although
beginning later than the movement, is present when the eye reaches O, while it is between O
and N, that is, during the anæsthetic moment, that the eye is reflexly caught and held by the
light. This proves again that the anæsthesia is not retinal, but it proves very much more;
namely, that the retinal stimulation is transmitted to those lower centers which mediate reflex
movements, at the very instant during which it is cut off from the higher, conscious centers.
The great frequency with which the eye would stop midway in its movements, both in the second
pendulum-experiment and in the repetition of Dodge's perimeter-test, was very annoying at the
time, and the observation cannot be questioned. The fact of the habitual reflex regulation
of voluntary movements is otherwise undisputed. Exner[24] mentions a variety of similar instances.
Also, with the moving dumb-bell, as has been mentioned, the eye having begun a voluntary sweep
would often be caught by the moving image and carried on thereafter reflexly with the pendulum.
These observations hang together, and prove a connection between the retina and the reflex
centers even while that between the retina and the conscious centers is cut off.

But shall we suppose that the 'connection' between the retina and the conscious centers is
cut off during the central anæsthesia? All that the facts prove is that the centers are at
that time not conscious. It would be at present an unwarrantable assumption to make, that these
centers are therefore disconnected from the retina, at the optic thalami, the superior quadrigeminal
bodies, or wheresoever. On broad psychological grounds the action-theory of Münsterberg[25]
has proposed the hypothesis that cerebral centers fail to mediate consciousness not merely
when no stimulations are transmitted to them, but rather when the stimulations transmitted
are not able to pass through and out. The stimulation arouses consciousness when it finds a
ready discharge. And indeed, in this particular case, while we have no other grounds for supposing
stimulations to the visual centers to be cut off, we do have other grounds for supposing that
egress from these cells would be impeded.

   [25] Münsterberg, Hugo, 'Grundzüge der Psychologie,' Leipzig,
   1900, S. 525-561.

The occipital centers which mediate sensations of color are of course most closely associated
with those other centers (probably the parietal) which receive sensations from the eye-muscles
and which, therefore, mediate sensations which furnish space and position to the sensations
of mere color. Now it is these occipital centers, mediators of light-sensations merely, which
the experiments have shown most specially to be anæsthetic. The discharge of such centers means
particularly the passage of excitations on to the parietal localization-centers. There are
doubtless other outlets, but these are the chief group. The movements, for instance, which
activity of these cells produces, are first of all eye-movements, which have to be directly
produced (according to our present psychophysical conceptions) by discharges from the centers
of eye-muscle sensation. The principal direction of discharge, then, from the color-centers
is toward the localization-centers.

Now the experiment with falsely and correctly localized after-images proves that before the
anæsthesia all localization is with reference to the point of departure, while afterwards it
is with reference to the final fixation-point. The transition is abrupt. During the anæsthesia,
then, the mechanism of localization is suffering a readjustment. It is proved that during this
interval of readjustment in the centers of eye-muscle sensation the way is closed to oncoming
discharges from the color-centers; but it is certain that any such discharge, during this complicated
process of readjustment, would take the localization-centres by surprise, as it were, and might
conceivably result in untoward eye-movements highly prejudicial to the safety of the individual
as a whole. The much more probable event is the following:

Although Schwarz suggests that the moment between seeing the false and seeing the correct after-image
is the moment that consciousness is taken up with 'innervation-feelings' of the eye-movement,
this is impossible, since the innervation-feelings (using the word in the only permissible
sense of remembered muscle-sensations) must precede the movement, whereas even the first-seen,
falsely localized streak is not generated till the movement commences. But we do have to suppose
that during the visual anæsthesia, muscle-sensations of present movement are streaming to consciousness,
to form the basis of the new post-motum localization. And these would have to go to those very
centers mentioned above, the localization-centers or eye-muscle sensation centers. One may
well suppose that these incoming currents so raise the tension of these centers that for the
moment no discharge can take place thither from other parts of the brain, among which are the
centers for color-sensations. The word 'tension' is of course a figure, but it expresses the
familiar idea that centers which are in process of receiving peripheral stimulations, radiate
that energy to other parts of the brain (according to the neural dispositions), and probably
do not for the time being receive communications therefrom, since those other parts are now
less strongly excited. It is, therefore, most probable that during the incoming of the eye-muscle
sensations the centers for color are in fact not able to discharge through their usual channels
toward the localization-centers, since the tension in that direction is too high. If, now,
their other channels of discharge are too few or too little used to come into question, the
action-theory would find in this a simple explanation of the visual anæsthesia.

The fact that the anæsthesia commences appreciably later than the movement so far favors this
interpretation. For if the anæsthesia is conditioned by high tension in the localization-centers,
due to incoming sensations from the eye-muscles, it could not possibly commence synchronously
with the movement. For, first the sensory end-organs in the eye-muscles (or perhaps in the
ligaments, surfaces of the eye-sockets, etc.) have their latent period; then the stimulation
has to travel to the brain; and lastly it probably has to initiate there a summation-process
equivalent to another latent period. These three processes would account very readily for what
we may call the latent period of the anæsthesia, as observed in the experiments. It is true
that this latent period was observed only in long eye-and head-movements, but the experiments
were not delicate enough in this particular to bring out the finer points.

Finally, the conditioning of anæsthesia by movements of the head, if really proved, would rather
corroborate this interpretation. For of course the position of the head on the shoulders is
as important for localization of the retinal picture as the position of the eyes in the head,
so that sensations of head-movements must be equally represented in the localization centers;
and head movements would equally raise the tension on those centers against discharge-currents
from the color-centers.

The conclusion from the foregoing experiments is that voluntary movements of the eyes condition
a momentary, visual, central anæsthesia.

       *       *       *       *       *

TACTUAL ILLUSIONS.

BY CHARLES H. RIEBER.

I.

Many profound researches have been published upon the subject of optical illusions, but in
the field of tactual illusions no equally extensive and serious work has been accomplished.
The reason for this apparent neglect of the illusions of touch is obviously the fact that the
studies in the optical illusions are generally thought to yield more important results for
psychology than corresponding studies in the field of touch. Then, too, the optical studies
are more attractive by reason of the comparative ease and certainty with which the statistics
are gathered there. An optical illusion is discovered in a single instance of the phenomenon.
We are aware of the illusion almost immediately. But in the case of most of the illusions of
touch, a large number of experiments is often necessary in order to reveal any approximately
constant error in the judgments. Nevertheless, it seems to me that the factors that influence
our judgments of visual space, though their effects are nearly always immediately apparent,
are of no more vital significance for the final explanation of the origin of our notion of
space than the disturbing factors in our estimations of tactual space whose effects are not
so open to direct observation.

The present investigation has for its main object a critical examination of the tactual illusions
that correspond to some of the well-known optical illusions, in the hope of segregating some
of the various disturbing factors that enter into our very complex judgments of tactual space.
The investigation has unavoidably extended into a number of near-lying problems in the psychology
of touch, but the final object of my paper will be to offer a more decisive answer than has
hitherto been given to the question, Are the optical illusions also tactual illusions, or are
they reversed for touch?

Those who have given their attention to illusions of sight and touch are rather unequally divided
in their views as to whether the geometrical optical illusions undergo a reversal in the field
of touch, the majority inclining to the belief that they are reversed. And yet there are not
wanting warm adherents of the opposite view. A comparison of the two classes of illusions,
with this question in view, appears therefore in the present state of divergent opinion to
be a needed contribution to experimental psychology. Such an experimental study, if it succeeds
in finding the solution to this debate, ought to throw some further light upon the question
of the origin of our idea of space, as well as upon the subject of illusions of sense in general.
For, on the one hand, if touch and sight function alike in our judgment of space, we should
expect that like peripheral disturbances in the two senses would cause like central errors
in judgment, and every tactual analogue of an optical illusion should be found to correspond
both in the direction of the error and, to a certain extent, quantitatively with the optical
illusion. But if, on the other hand, they are in their origin and in their developed state
really disparate senses, each guided by a different psychological principle, the illusion in
the one sense might well be the reverse of the corresponding illusion in the other sense. Therefore,
if the results of an empirical study should furnish evidence that the illusions are reversed
in passing from one field to the other, we should be obliged to conclude that we are here in
the presence of what psychologists have been content to call the 'unanalyzable fact' that the
two senses function differently under the same objective conditions. But if, on the contrary,
it should turn out that the illusions are not reversed for the two senses, then the theory
of the ultimate uniformity of the psychical laws will have received an important defence.

These experiments were carried on in the Harvard Psychological Laboratory during the greater
part of the years 1898-1901. In all, fifteen subjects coöperated in the work at different times.

The experimental work in the direction of a comparison of the optical illusions with the tactual
illusions, to the time of the present investigation, has been carried on chiefly with the familiar
optical illusion of the overestimation of filled space. If the distance between two points
be divided into two equal parts by a point midway between them, and the one of the halves be
filled with intermediate points, the filled half will, to the eye, appear longer than the open
half. James[1] says that one may easily prove that with the skin we underestimate a filled
space, 'by taking a visiting card, and cutting one edge of it into a saw-toothed pattern, and
from the opposite edge cutting out all but two corners, and then comparing the feelings aroused
by the two edges when held against the skin.' He then remarks, 'the skin seems to obey a different
law here from the eye.' This experiment has often been repeated and verified. The most extensive
work on the problem, however, is that by Parrish.[2] It is doubtless principally on the results
of Parrish's experiments that several authors of text-books in psychology have based their
assertions that a filled space is underestimated by the skin. The opposite conclusion, namely,
that the illusion is not reversed for the skin, has been maintained by Thiéry,[3] and Dresslar.[4]
Thiéry does not, so far as I know, state the statistics on which he bases his view. Dresslar's
experiments, as Parrish has correctly observed, do not deal with the proper analogue of the
optical illusion for filled space. The work of Dresslar will be criticised in detail when we
come to the illusions for active touch.

   [1] James, William: 'Principles of Psychology,' New York, 1893,
   Vol. II., p. 141.

   [2] Parrish, C.S.: Amer. Journ. of Psy., 1895, Vol. VI., p.
   514.

   [3] Thiéry, A.: Philos. Studien, 1896, Bd. XII., S. 121.

   [4] Dresslar, F.B.: Amer. Journ. of Psy., 1894, Vol. VI., p.
   332.

At the beginning of the present investigation, the preponderance of testimony was found to
be in favor of the view that filled space is underestimated by the skin; and this view is invariably
accompanied by the conclusion, which seems quite properly to follow from it, that the skin
and the eye do not function alike in our perception of space. I began my work, however, in
the belief that there was lurking somewhere in the earlier experiments a radical error or oversight.
I may say here, parenthetically, that I see no reason why experimental psychologists should
so often be reluctant to admit that they begin certain investigations with preconceptions in
favor of the theory which they ultimately defend by the results of their experiments. The conclusions
of a critical research are in no wise vitiated because those conclusions were the working hypotheses
with which the investigator entered upon his inquiry. I say frankly, therefore, that although
my experiments developed many surprises as they advanced, I began them in the belief that the
optical illusions are not reversed for touch. The uniformity of the law of sense perception
is prejudiced if two senses, when affected by the same objective conditions, should report
to consciousness diametrically opposite interpretations of these same objective facts. I may
say at once, in advance of the evidence upon which I base the assertion, that the belief with
which I began the experiments has been crystallized into a firm conviction, namely, that neither
the illusion for open or filled spaces, nor any other optical illusion, is genuinely reversed
for touch.

II.

I began my work on the problem in question by attempting to verify with similar apparatus the
results of some of the previous investigations, in the hope of discovering just where the suspected
error lay. It is unnecessary for me to give in detail the results of these preliminary series,
which were quite in agreement with the general results of Parrish's experiments. Distances
of six centimeters filled with points varying in number and position were, on the whole, underestimated
in comparison with equal distances without intermediate point stimulations. So, too, the card
with saw-toothed notches was judged shorter than the card of equal length with all but the
end points cut out.

After this preliminary verification of the previous results, I was convinced that to pass from
these comparatively meager statistics, gathered under limited conditions in a very special
case, to the general statement that the optical illusion is reversed in the field of touch,
is an altogether unwarranted procedure. When one reads the summarized conclusions of these
previous investigators, one finds it there assumed or even openly asserted that the objective
conditions of the tactual illusion are precisely the same as those of the optical illusion.
But I contend that it is not the real analogue of the optical illusion with which these experiments
have been concerned. The objective conditions are not the same in both. Although something
that is very much like the optical illusion is reversed, yet I shall attempt to prove in this
part of my paper, first, that the former experiments have not been made with the real counterpart
of the optical illusion; second, that the optical illusion can be quite exactly reproduced
on the skin; third, that where the objective conditions are the same, the filled cutaneous
space is overestimated, and the illusion thus exists in the same sense for both sight and touch.

Let me first call attention to some obvious criticisms on Parrish's experiments. They were
all made with one distance, namely, 6.4 centimeters; and on only one region, the forearm. Furthermore,
in these experiments no attempt was made to control the factor of pressure by any mechanical
device. The experimenter relied entirely on the facility acquired by practice to give a uniform
pressure to the stimuli. The number of judgments is also relatively small. Again, the open
and filled spaces were always given successively. This, of course, involves the comparison
of a present impression with the memory of a somewhat remote past impression, which difficulty
can not be completely obviated by simply reversing the order of presentation. In the optical
illusion, the two spaces are presented simultaneously, and they lie adjacent to each other.
It is still a debated question whether this illusion would exist at all if the two spaces were
not given simultaneously and adjacent. Münsterberg[5] says of the optical illusion for the
open and filled spaces, "I have the decided impression that the illusion does not arise from
the fact of our comparing one half with the other, but from the fact that we grasp the line
as a whole. As soon as an interval is inserted, so that the perception of the whole line as
constituted of two halves vanishes, the illusion also disappears." This is an important consideration,
to which I shall return again.

   [5] Münsterberg, H.: 'Beiträge zur Exper. Psy.,' Freiburg i.B.,
   1889, Heft II., S. 171.

Now, in my experiments, I endeavored to guard against all of these objections. In the first
place, I made a far greater number of tests. Then my apparatus enabled me, firstly, to use
a very wide range of distances. Where the points are set in a solid block, the experiments
with long distances are practically impossible. Secondly, the apparatus enabled me to control
accurately the pressure of each point. Thirdly, the contacts could be made simultaneously or
successively with much precision. This apparatus (Fig. 1) was planned and made in the Harvard
Laboratory, and was employed not only in our study of this particular illusion, but also for
the investigation of a number of allied problems.

Two æsthesiometers, A and B, were arranged in a framework, so that uniform stimulations could
be given on both arms. The æsthesiometers were raised or lowered by means of the crank, C,
and the cams, D and E. The contacts were made either simultaneously or successively, with any
interval between them according to the position of the cams on the crank. The height of the
æsthesiometer could be conveniently adjusted by the pins F and H. The shape of the cams was
such that the descent of the æsthesiometer was as uniform as the ascent, so that the contacts
were not made by a drop motion unless that was desired. The sliding rules, of which there were
several forms and lengths, could be easily detached from the upright rods at K and L. Each
of the points by which the contacts were made moved easily along the sliding rule, and could
be also raised or lowered for accommodation to the unevenness of the surface of the skin. These
latter were the most valuable two features of the apparatus. There were two sets of points,
one of hard rubber, the other of metal. This enabled me to take into account, to a certain
extent, the factor of temperature. A wide range of apparent differences in temperature was
secured by employing these two stimuli of such widely different conductivity. Then, as each
point was independent of the rest in its movements, its weight could also be changed without
affecting the rest.

In the first series of experiments I endeavored to reproduce for touch the optical illusion
in its exact form. There the open and the filled spaces are adjacent to each other, and are
presented simultaneously for passive functioning of the eye, which is what concerns us here
in our search for the analogue of passive touch. This was by no means an easy task, for obviously
the open and the filled spaces in this position on the skin could not be compared directly,
owing to the lack of uniformity in the sensibility of different portions of the skin. At first,
equivalents had to be established between two collinear open spaces for the particular region
of the skin tested. Three points were taken in a line, and one of the end points was moved
until the two adjacent open spaces were pronounced equal. Then one of the spaces was filled,
and the process of finding another open space equivalent to this filled space was repeated
as before. This finding of two equivalent open spaces was repeated at frequent intervals. It
was found unsafe to determine an equivalent at the beginning of each sitting to be used throughout
the hour.

Two sets of experiments were made with the illusion in this form. In one the contacts were
made simultaneously; the results of this series are given in Table I. In the second set of
experiments the central point which divided the open from the filled space touched the skin
first, and then the others in various orders. The object of this was to prevent fusion of the
points, and, therefore, to enable the subject to pronounce his judgments more rapidly and confidently.
A record of these judgments is given in Table II. In both of these series the filled space
was always taken near the wrist and the open space in a straight line toward the elbow, on
the volar side of the arm. At present, I shall not undertake to give a complete interpretation
of the results of these two tables, but simply call attention to two manifest tendencies in
the figures. First, it will be seen that the short filled distance of four centimeters is underestimated,
but that the long filled distance is overestimated. Second, in Table II., which represents
the judgments when the contacts were made successively, the tendency to underestimate the short
distance is less, and at the same time we notice a more pronounced overestimation of the longer
filled distances. I shall give a further explanation of these results in connection with later
tables.

TABLE I.

           4 cm.               6 cm.               8 cm.
     Filled.  Open.       Filled.  Open.       Filled.  Open.

  F.   5.3     4.7         7.8     7.6          9.3     10.5
  F.   5.7     4.4         6.5     7.3          9.2     11.7
  F.   6.0     5.6         8.2     7.3          8.7     10.8
       ---     ---         ---     ---          ---     ----
  Av.  5.7     4.9         7.5     7.4          9.1     11.0

  R.   5.7     5.1         6.7     6.8          9.3     10.2
  R.   5.4     5.4         7.2     7.1          8.5     10.7
  R.   4.6     4.2         8.1     8.1          9.1     11.4
       ---     ---         ---     ---          ---     ----
  Av.  5.2     4.9         7.3     7.3          9.0     10.8

  K.   5.6     5.1         6.8     6.7          8.1      9.6
  K.   5.0     5.1         7.3     7.5          8.2     11.2
  K.   4.9     4.9         8.2     8.1         10.1     10.1
       ---     ---         ---     ---         ----     ----
  Av.  5.2     5.0         7.4     7.4          8.8     10.3

TABLE II.

  F.   5.1     5.0         8.0     8.3          9.2     10.3
  F.   5.8     4.7         7.2     7.9          8.7     10.9
  F.   5.6     5.5         6.9     9.1          9.1     11.1
       ---     ---         ---     ---          ---     ----
  Av.  5.5     5.1         7.4     8.4          9.0     10.8

  R.   6.0     4.8         8.2     7.5          9.4     10.6
  R.   5.7     5.4         6.5     7.4         10.1      9.4
  R.   5.0     5.2         7.7     7.8          8.6     11.2
       ---     ---         ---     ---         ----     ----
  Av.  5.6     5.1         7.5     7.6          9.4     10.4

  K.   4.8     4.8         8.2     8.3          8.1      9.8
  K.   5.1     5.3         7.1     7.7         10.0     10.8
  K.   4.7     5.0         8.1     8.6          8.6      9.4
       ---     ---         ---     ---         ----     ----
  Av.  4.9     5.0         7.8     8.2          8.9     10.0

    The first two numbers in the first line signify that when an
    open distance of 4 cm. was taken, an adjacent open distance of
    4.7 cm. was judged equal; but when the adjacent space was
    filled, 5.3 cm. was judged equal. Each number in the column of
    filled distances represents an average of five judgments. All
    of the contacts in Table I. were made simultaneously; in Table
    II. they were made successively.

In the next series of experiments the illusion was approached from an entirely different point
of view. The two points representing the open space were given on one arm, and the filled space
on a symmetrical part of the other arm. I was now able to use a much wider range of distances,
and made many variations in the weights of the points and the number that were taken for the
filled distance.

However, before I began this second series, in which one of the chief variations was to be
in the weights of the different points, I made a brief preliminary series of experiments to
determine in a general way the influence of pressure on judgments of point distances. Only
three distances were employed, four, six and twelve centimeters, and three weights, twelve,
twenty and forty grams. Table III. shows that, for three men who were to serve as subjects
in the main experiments that are to follow, an increase in the weight of the points was almost
always accompanied by an increase in the apparent distance.

TABLE III.

  Distances.    4 cm.             6 cm.            12 cm.

   Weights
   (Grams).  12   20   40     12   20   40     12    20    40

  R.        3.9  3.2  3.0    6.2  5.6  5.3    11.4  10.4   9.3
  F.        4.3  4.0  3.6    6.1  5.3  5.5    12.3  11.6  10.8
  B.        4.1  3.6  3.1    6.0  5.7  5.8    12.0  10.2   9.4
  P.        4.3  4.1  3.7    5.9  5.6  5.6    13.1  11.9  10.7

    In the standard distances the points were each weighted to 6
    grams. The first three figures signify that a two-point
    distance of 4 cm., each point weighing 6 grams, was judged
    equal to 3.9 cm. when each point weighed 12 grams. 3.2 cm.
    when each point weighed 20 grams, etc. Each figure is the
    average of five judgments.

Now the application of this principle in my criticism of Parrish's experiments, and as anticipating
the direction which the following experiments will take, is this: if we take a block such as
Parrish used, with only two points in it, and weight it with forty grams in applying it to
the skin, it is plain that each point will receive one half of the whole pressure, or twenty
grams. But if we put a pressure of forty grams upon a block of eight points, each point will
receive only one eighth of the forty, or five grams. Thus, in the case of the filled space,
the end points, which play the most important part in the judgment of the distance, have each
only five grams' pressure, while the points in the open space have each twenty grams. We should,
therefore, naturally expect that the open space would be overestimated, because of the decided
increase of pressure at these significant points. Parrish should have subjected the blocks,
not to the same pressure, but to a pressure proportional to the number of points in each block.
With my apparatus, I was easily able to prove the correctness of my position here. It will
be seen in Tables IV. to VIII. that, when the sum of the weights of the two end points in the
open space was only just equal to the sum of the weights of all the points in the filled space,
the filled space was underestimated just as Parrish has reported. But when the points were
all of the same weight, both in the filled and the open space, the filled space was judged
longer in all but the very short distances. For this latter exception I shall offer an explanation
presently.

Having now given an account of the results of this digression into experiments to determine
the influence of pressure upon point distances, I shall pass to the second series of experiments
on the illusion in question. In this series, as has been already stated, the filled space was
taken on one arm and the open on the other, and then the process was reversed in order to eliminate
any error arising from a lack of symmetry between the two regions. Without, for the present,
going into a detailed explanation of the statistics of this second series of experiments, which
are recorded in Tables IV., V., VI., VII. and VIII., I may summarize the salient results into
these general conclusions: First, the short filled distance is underestimated; second, this
underestimation of the filled space gradually decreases until in the case of the filled distance
of 18 cm. the judgments pass over into pronounced overestimations; third, an increase in the
number of points of contact in the shorter distances increases the underestimation, while an
increase in the number of points in the longer distance increases the overestimation; fourth,
an increase of pressure causes an invariable increase in the apparent length of space. If a
general average were made of the results given in Tables IV., V., VI., VII. and VIII., there
would be a preponderance of evidence for the conclusion that the filled spaces are overestimated.
But we cannot ignore the marked tendencies in the opposite direction for the long and the short
distances. These anomalous results, which, it will be remembered, were also found in our first
series, call for explanation. Several hypotheses were framed to explain these fluctuations
in the illusion, and then some shorter series of experiments were made in different directions
with as large a number of variations in the conditions as possible, in the hope of discovering
the disturbing factors.

TABLE IV.¹

  4 Centimeters.

             A           B              D            E
        less = gr.  less = gr.     less = gr.   less = gr.
  R. (a)  7  2  1     8  1  1        6  2  2      5  1  4
     (b)  7  3  0     7  1  2        6  2  2      6  1  3
  F. (a)  6  3  1     7  1  2        7  0  3      6  0  4
     (b)  7  0  3     9  1  0        6  1  3      5  2  3
          -------    --------       --------     --------
         27  8  5    31  4  5       25  5 10     22  4 14

    ¹In columns A, B, and C the filled spaces were made up
    of 4, 5 and 6 points, respectively. The total weight of the
    filled space in A, B and C was always just equal to the
    weight of the two points in the open space, 20 gr. In (a)
    the filled distance was given on the right arm first, in (b)
    on the left arm. It will be observed that this reversal made
    practically no difference in the judgments and therefore was
    sometimes omitted. In D the filled space consisted of four
    points, but here the weight of each point was 10 gr., making a
    total weight of 40 gr. for the filled space, as against 20 gr.
    for the open space. In E the weight of each was 20 gr.,
    making the total weight of the filled space 80 gr.

TABLE V.

  6 Centimeters.

              A          B          C          D          E
         less = gr. less = gr. less = gr. less = gr. less = gr.
  R. (a)  10  8  2   12  0  8   14  6  0   9   6  5   8  2  10
  F. (a)  12  4  4   12  6  2   12  4  4   8   3  9   6  3  11
  K. (a)  10  2  8   12  6  2   14  2  4   6   4 10   7  2  11
          --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
          32 14 14   36 12 12   40 12  8  23  13 24  21  7  32

TABLE VI.

  8 Centimeters.

              A          B          C          D          E
         less = gr. less = gr. less = gr. less = gr. less = gr.

  12 Centimeters.

              A          B          C          D          E
         less = gr. less = gr. less = gr. less = gr. less =  gr.
  R. (a)  3  6  16   8  3  14  10  8  7    6  3  16   3  4   18
  F. (a)  5  7  13  10  5  10   9  6 10    6  4  15   5  1   19
  K. (a)  8  2  15   8  4  13  13  9  3    3  7  15   3  0   22
          --------   --------   -------    --------   ---------
         16 15  44  26 12  37  32 23 20   15 14  46  11  5   59

TABLE VIII.

  18 Centimeters.

              A          B          C          D          E
         less = gr. less = gr. less = gr. less = gr. less = gr.
  R. (a)   2  0  23   0  0  25   4  4  17   3  1  21   0  1  24
     (b)   3  1  21   1  0  24   5  3  17   1  6  18   0  2  23
  F. (a)   1  4  20   3  0  22   8  6  11   0  5  20   2  0  23
     (b)   2  3  20   2  1  22   6  7  12   1  4  20   0  3  22
  K. (a)   4  2  19   4  0  21   2  7  16   0  7  18   0  0  25
     (b)   1  0  24   2  6  17   8  0  17   2  6  17   1  0  24
           --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
          13 10 127  12  7 131  33 27  90   7 29 114   3  6 141

TABLES IV.-VIII.

The first line in column A (Table IV.) signifies that out of 10 judgments, comparing an open
space 4 cm., total weight 20 gr., with a filled space of 4 points, total weight also 20 gr.,
the filled space was judged less 7 times, equal 2 times, and greater once.

III.

The results of the investigation, thus far, point to the conclusion that short filled spaces
are underestimated, that long spaces are overestimated, and that between the two there lies
what might be called an 'indifference zone.' This unexpected outcome explains, I think, the
divergent opinions of the earlier investigators of this problem. Each theory is right in what
it affirms, but wrong in what it implicitly or openly denies.

I next set out to determine as precisely as possible how far the factor of fusion, or what
Parrish has called irradiation, enters into the judgments. It was evident from the beginning
of this whole investigation that fusion or displacement of the points was very common. The
term 'irradiation' is, however, too specific a term to describe a process that works in these
two opposite directions. The primary concern of these next experiments was, therefore, to devise
means for preventing fusion among the points before the subject pronounced his judgment. With
our apparatus we were able to make a number of experiments that show, in an interesting way,
the results that follow when the sensations are not permitted to fuse. It is only the shorter
distances that concern us here. The longer distances have already been shown to follow the
law of optical illusion, that is, that filled space is overestimated. The object of the present
experiments is to bring the shorter distances under the same law, by showing, first, that the
objective conditions as they have existed in our experiments thus far are not parallel to those
which we find in the optical illusion. Second, that when the objective conditions are the same,
the illusion for the shorter distances follows the law just stated.

In repeating some of the experiments reported in Tables IV.-VIII. with varying conditions,
I first tried the plan of using metallic points at the ends of the spaces. Thus, by an apparent
difference in the temperature between the end points and the filling, the sensations from the
end points, which play the most important part in the judgment of the length, were to a certain
extent kept from fusing with the rest. The figures in Table II. have already shown what may
be expected when the points are kept from fusing. Here, also, a marked tendency in the direction
of apparent lengthening of the distance was at once observed. These short filled distances,
which had before been underestimated, were now overestimated. The same results follow when
metallic points are alternated with hard rubber points in the filling itself.

This changing of the apparent temperature of the end points has, it must be admitted, introduced
another factor; and it might be objected that it was not so much the prevention of fusion as
the change in the temperature that caused the judgments to drift towards overestimation. I
have statistics to show that this observation is in a way just. Extremes in temperature, whether
hot or cold, are interpreted as an increase in the amount of space. This conclusion has also
been reported from a number of other laboratories. My contention at this point is simply that
there are certain conditions under which these distances will be overestimated and that these
are the very conditions which bring the phenomenon into closer correspondence with the optical
illusion, both as to the stimuli and the subjective experience. Then, aside from this, such
an objection will be seen to be quite irrelevant if we bear in mind that when the end points
in the filled distance were replaced by metallic points, metallic points were also employed
in the open distance. The temperature factor, therefore, entered into both spaces alike. By
approaching the problem from still another point of view, I obtained even more conclusive evidence
that it is the fusion of the end points with the adjacent points in the short distances that
leads to the underestimation of these. I have several series in which the end points were prevented
from fusing into the filling, by raising or lowering them in the apparatus, so that they came
in contact with the skin just after or before the intermediate points. When the contacts were
arranged in this way, the tendency to underestimate the filled spaces was very much lessened,
and with some subjects the tendency passed over into a decided overestimation. This, it will
be seen, is a confirmation of the results in Table II.

I have already stated that the two series of experiments reported in Section II. throughout
point to the conclusion that an increase of pressure is taken to mean an increase in the distance.
I now carried on some further experiments with short filled distances, making variations in
the place at which the pressure was increased. I found a maximum tendency to underestimate
when the central points in the filled space were weighted more than the end points. A strong
drift in the opposite direction was noticed when the end points were heavier than the intermediate
ones. It is not so much the pressure as a whole, as the place at which it is applied, that
causes the variations in the judgments of length. In these experiments the total weights of
the points were the same in both cases. An increase of the weight on the end points with an
equivalent diminution of the weights on the intervening points gave the end points greater
distinctness apparently and rendered them less likely to disappear from the judgments.

At this stage in the inquiry as to the cause of the underestimation of short distances, I began
some auxiliary experiments on the problem of the localization of cutaneous impressions, which
I hoped would throw light on the way in which the fusion or displacement that I have just described
takes place. These studies in the localization of touch sensations were made partly with a
modification of the Jastrow æsthesiometer and partly with an attachment to the apparatus before
described (Fig. 1). In the first case, the arm upon which the impressions were given was screened
from the subject's view, and he made a record of his judgments on a drawing of the arm. The
criticism made by Pillsbury[6] upon this method of recording the judgments in the localization
of touch sensations will not apply to my experiments, for I was concerned only with the relative,
not with the absolute position of the points. In the case of the other experiments, a card
with a single line of numbered points was placed as nearly as possible over the line along
which the contacts had been made on the arm. The subject then named those points on the card
which seemed directly over the points which had been touched.

   [6] Pillsbury, W.B.: Amer. Journ. of Psy., 1895, Vol. VII., p.
   42.

The results from these two methods were practically the same. But the second method, although
it obviously permitted the determination of the displacements in one dimension only, was in
the end regarded as the more reliable method. With this apparatus I could be more certain that
the contacts were made simultaneously, which was soon seen to be of the utmost importance for
these particular experiments. Then, too, by means of this æsthesiometer, all movement of the
points after the contact was made was prevented. This also was an advantage in the use of this
apparatus, here and elsewhere, which can hardly be overestimated. With any æsthesiometer that
is operated directly by the hand, it is impossible to avoid imparting a slight motion to the
points and thus changing altogether the character of the impression. The importance of this
consideration for my work was brought forcibly to my attention in this way. One of the results
of these tests was that when two simultaneous contacts are made differing in weight, if only
one is recognized it is invariably located in the region of the contact with the heavier point.
But now if, while the points were in contact with the skin and before the judgment was pronounced,
I gave the lighter point a slight jar, its presence and location were thereby revealed to the
subject. Then, too, it was found to be an advantage that the judgments were thus confined to
the longitudinal displacement only; for, as I have before insisted, it was the relative, not
the absolute position that I wished to determine, since my object in all these experiments
in localization was to determine what connection, if any, exists between judgments upon cutaneous
distances made indirectly by means of localization, and judgments that are pronounced directly
upon the subjective experience of the distance.

In the first of these experiments, in which two points of different weight were used, the points
were always taken safely outside of the threshold for the discrimination between two points
in the particular region of the skin operated on. An inspection of the results shown in Figs.
2 and 3 will indicate the marked tendency of the heavier point to attract the lighter. In Figs.
2 and 3 the heavy curves were plotted from judgments where both heavy and light points were
given together. The dotted curve represents the localization of each point when given alone.
The height of the curves at any particular point is determined by the number of times a contact
was judged to be directly under that point. The fact that the curves are higher over the heavy
points shows that, when two points were taken as one, this one was localized in the vicinity
of the heavier point. When points were near the threshold for any region, it will be observed
that the two points were attracted to each other. But when the points were altogether outside
the threshold, they seemed strangely to have repelled each other. As this problem lay somewhat
away from my main interest here, I did not undertake to investigate this peculiar fluctuation
exhaustively. My chief purpose was satisfied when I found that the lighter point is displaced
toward the heavier, in short distances. A further explanation of these figures will be given
in connection with similar figures in the next section.

This attraction of the heavier for the lighter points is, I think, a sufficient explanation
for the variations in judgments upon filled distances where changes are made in the place at
which the pressure is applied. I furthermore believe that an extension of this principle offers
an explanation for the underestimation of cutaneous line-distances, which has been frequently
reported from various laboratories. Such a straight line gives a subjective impression of being
heavier at the center. I found that if the line is slightly concave at the center, so as to
give the ends greater prominence and thereby leave the subjective impression that the line
is uniform throughout its entire length, the line will be overestimated in comparison with
a point distance. Out of one hundred judgments on the relative length of two hard-rubber lines
of 5 cm. when pressed against the skin, one of which was slightly concave, the concave line
was overestimated eighty-four times. For sight, a line in which the shaded part is concentrated
at the center appears longer than an objectively equal line with the shading massed towards
the ends.

IV.

In the last section, I gave an account of some experiments in the localization of touch sensations
which were designed to show how, under varying pressure, the points in the filled distance
are displaced or fused and disappear entirely from the judgment. Our earliest experiments,
it will be remembered, yielded unmistakable evidence that short, filled distances were underestimated;
while all of the secondary experiments reported in the last section have pointed to the conclusion
that even these shorter distances will follow the law of the longer distances and be overestimated
under certain objective conditions, which conditions are also more nearly parallel with those
which we find in the optical illusion. I wish now to give the results of another and longer
set of experiments in the localization of a manifold of touch sensations as we find them in
this same illusion for filled space, by which I hope to prove a direct relation between the
function of localization and the spatial functioning proper.

These experiments were made with the same apparatus and method that were used in the previous
study in localization; but instead of two points of different weights, four points of uniform
weight were employed. This series, therefore, will show from quite another point of view that
the fusion which takes place, even where there is no difference in the weight, is a very significant
factor in judgments of distance on the skin.

I need hardly say that here, and in all my other experiments, the subjects were kept as far
as possible in complete ignorance of the object of the experiment. This and the other recognized
laboratory precautions were carefully observed throughout this work. Four distances were used,
4, 8, 12 and 16 cm. At frequent intervals throughout the tests the contact was made with only
one of the points instead of four. In this way there came to light again the interesting fact
which we have already seen in the last section, which is of great significance for my theory--that
the end points are located differently when given alone than when they are presented simultaneously
with the other points. I give a graphic representation of the results obtained from a large
number of judgments in Figs. 4, 5 and 6. These experiments with filled spaces, like the earlier
experiments, were made on the volar side of the forearm beginning near the wrist. In each distance
four points were used, equally distributed over the space. The shaded curve, as in the previous
figures, represents the results of the attempts to localize the points when all four were given
simultaneously. In the dotted curves, the end points were given alone. The height of the curve
at any place is determined by the number of times a point was located immediately underneath
that particular part of the curve. In Fig. 4 the curve which was determined by the localization
of the four points when given simultaneously, shows by its shape how the points appear massed
towards the center. In Fig. 5 the curve AB shows, by its crests at A and B, that the end points
tended to free themselves from the rest in the judgments. But if the distance AB be taken to
represent the average of the judgments upon the filled space 1, 2, 3, 4, it will be seen to
be shorter than what may be regarded as the average of the judgments upon the corresponding
open space, namely, the distance A'B', determined by the localizations of the end points alone.
The comparative regularity of the curve indicates that the subject was unable to discriminate
among the points of the filling with any degree of certainty. The localizations were scattered
quite uniformly along the line. In these short distances the subject often judged four points
as two, or even one.

Turning to Fig. 6, we notice that the tendency is now to locate the end points in the filled
distance outside of the localization of these same points when given without the intermediate
points. It will also be seen from the irregularities in these two longer curves that there
is now a clear-cut tendency to single out the individual points. The fact that the curves here
are again higher over point 4 simply signifies that at this, the wrist end, the failure to
discover the presence of the points was less frequent than towards the elbow. But this does
not disturb the relation of the two series of judgments. As I have before said, the first two
sets of experiments described in Section II. showed that the shorter filled distances are underestimated,
while the longer distances are overestimated, and that between the two there is somewhat of
an 'indifferent zone.' In those experiments the judgments were made directly on the cutaneous
distances themselves. In the experiments the results of which are plotted in these curves,
the judgment of distances is indirectly reached through the function of localization. But it
will be observed that the results are substantially the same. The longer distances are overestimated
and the shorter distances underestimated. The curves in Figs. 4, 5 and 6 were plotted on the
combined results for two subjects. But before the combination was made the two main tendencies
which I have just mentioned were observed to be the same for both subjects.

It will be remembered also that in these experiments, where the judgment of distance was based
directly on the cutaneous impression, the underestimation of the short, filled distance was
lessened and even turned into an overestimation, by giving greater distinctness to the end
points, in allowing them to come in contact with the skin just before or just after the filling.
The results here are again the same as before. The tendency to underestimate is lessened by
this device. Whenever, then, a filled space is made up of points which are distinctly perceived
as discrete--and this is shown in the longer curves by the comparative accuracy with which
the points are located--these spaces are overestimated.

In all of these experiments on localization, the judgments were given with open eyes, by naming
the visual points under which the tactual points seemed to lie. I have already spoken of the
other method which I also employed. This consisted in marking points on paper which seemed
to correspond in number and position to the points on the skin. During this process the eyes
were kept closed. This may appear to be a very crude way of getting at the illusion, but from
a large number of judgments which show a surprising consistency I received the emphatic confirmation
of my previous conclusion, that filled spaces were overestimated. These experiments were valuable
also from the fact that here the cutaneous space was estimated by the muscle sense, or active
touch, as it is called.

In the experiments so far described the filling in of the closed space was always made by means
of stationary points. I shall now give a brief account of some experiments which I regard as
very important for the theory that I shall advance later. Here the filling was made by means
of a point drawn over the skin from one end of a two-point distance to the other.

These experiments were made on four different parts of the skin--the forehead, the back of
the hand, the abdomen, and the leg between the knee and the thigh. I here forsook the plan
which I had followed almost exclusively hitherto, that of comparing the cutaneous distances
with each other directly. The judgments now were secured indirectly through the medium of visual
distances. There was placed before the subject a gray card, upon which were put a series of
two-point distances ranging from 2 to 20 cm. The two-point distances were given on the skin,
and the subject then selected from the optical distances the one that appeared equal to the
cutaneous distance. This process furnished the judgments on open spaces. For the filled spaces,
immediately after the two-point distance was given a blunt stylus was drawn from one point
to the other, and the subject then again selected the optical distance which seemed equal to
this distance filled by the moving point.

The results from these experiments point very plainly in one direction. I have therefore thought
it unnecessary to go into any further detail with them than to state that for all subjects
and for all regions of the skin the filled spaces were overestimated. This overestimation varied
also with the rate of speed at which the stylus was moved. The overestimation is greatest where
the motion is slowest.

Vierordt[7] found the same result in his studies on the time sense, that is, that the more
rapid the movement, the shorter the distance seems. But lines drawn on the skin are, according
to him, underestimated in comparison with open two-point distances. Fechner[8] also reported
that a line drawn on the skin is judged shorter than the distance between two points which
are merely touched. It will be noticed, however, that my experiments differed from those of
Vierordt and Fechner in one essential respect. This difference, I think, is sufficient to explain
the different results. In my experiments the two-point distance was held on the skin, while
the stylus was moved from one point to the other. In their experiments the line was drawn without
the points. This of course changes the objective conditions. In simply drawing a line on the
skin the subject rapidly loses sight of the starting point of the movement. It follows, as
it were, the moving point, and hence the entire distance is underestimated. I made a small
number of tests of this kind, and found that the line seemed shorter than the point distance
as Fechner and Vierordt declared. But when the point distance is kept on the skin while the
stylus is being drawn, the filling is allowed its full effect in the judgment, inasmuch as
the end points are perceived as stationary landmarks. The subjects at first found some difficulty
in withholding their judgments until the movement was completed. Some subjects declared that
they frequently made a preliminary judgment before the filling was inserted, but that when
the moving point approached the end point, they had distinctly the experience that the distance
was widening. In these experiments I used five sorts of motion, quick and heavy, quick and
light, slow and heavy, slow and light, and interrupted. I made no attempt to determine either
the exact amount of pressure or the exact rate. I aimed simply at securing pronounced extremes.
The slow rate was approximately 3, and the fast approximately 15 cm. per second.

   [7] 'Zeitsinn,' Tübingen, 1858.

   [8] Fechner, G. Th., 'Elem. d. Psychophysik,' Leipzig, 1889; 2.
   Theil, S. 328.

I have already said that these filled spaces were invariably overestimated and that the slower
the movement, the greater, in general, is the overestimation. In addition to the facts just
stated I found also, what Hall and Donaldson[9] discovered, that an increase in the pressure
of a moving point diminishes the apparent distance.

   [9] Hall, G. St., and Donaldson, H.H., 'Motor Sensations on the
   Skin,' Mind, 1885, X., p. 557.

Nichols,[10] however, says that heavy movements seem longer and light ones shorter.

   [10] Op. citat., p. 98.

V.

There are several important matters which might properly have been mentioned in an earlier
part of this paper, in connection with the experiments to which they relate, but which I have
designedly omitted, in order not to disturb the continuity in the development of the central
object of the research. The first of these is the question of the influence of visualization
on the judgments of cutaneous distances. This is in many ways a most important question, and
confronts one who is making studies in tactual space everywhere. The reader may have already
noticed that I have said but little about the factor of visualization in any of my experiments,
and may have regarded it as a serious omission. It might be offered as a criticism of my work
that the fact that I found the tactual illusions to exist in the same sense as the optical
illusions was perhaps due to the failure to exclude visualization. All of the subjects declare
that they were unable to shut out the influence of visualizing entirely. Some of the subjects
who were very good visualizers found the habit especially insistent. I think, however, that
not even in these latter cases does this factor at all vitiate my conclusions.

It will be remembered that the experiments up to this time fall into two groups, first, those
in which the judgments on the cutaneous distances were reached by direct comparisons of the
sensations themselves; and secondly, those in which the sensations were first localized and
then the judgment of the distance read from these localizations. Visualizing, therefore, entered
very differently into the two groups. In the first instance all of the judgments were made
with the eyes closed, while all of the localizations were made with the eyes open. I was uncertain
through the whole of the first group of experiments as to just how much disturbance was being
caused in the estimation of the distance by visualizing. I therefore made a series of experiments
to determine what effect was produced upon the illusion if in the one set of judgments one
purposely visualized and in the other excluded visualizing as far as possible. In my own case
I found that after some practice I could give very consistent judgments, in which I felt that
I had abstracted from the visualized image of the arm almost entirely. I did not examine these
results until the close of the series, and then found that the illusion was greater for those
judgments in which visualization was excluded; that is, the filled space seemed much larger
when the judgment was made without the help of visualization. It is evident, therefore, that
the tactual illusion is influenced rather in a negative direction by visualization.

In the second group of experiments, where the judgments were obtained through the localization
of the points, it would seem, at first sight, that the judgments must have been very largely
influenced by the direct vision used in localizing the points. The subject, as will be remembered,
looked down at a card of numbered points and named those which were directly over the contacts
beneath. Here it should seem that the optical illusion of the overestimation of filled spaces,
filled with points on the card, would be directly transmitted to the sensation on the skin
underneath. Such criticism on this method of getting at the illusion has already been made
orally to me. But this is obviously a mistaken objection. The points on the card make a filled
space, which of course appears larger, but as the points expand, the numbers which are attached
to them expand likewise, and the optical illusion has plainly no influence whatever upon the
tactual illusion.

A really serious objection to this indirect method of approaching the illusion is, that the
character of the cutaneous sensation is never so distinctly perceived when the eyes are open
as when they are closed. Several subjects often found it necessary to close their eyes first,
in order to get a clear perception of the locality of the points; they then opened their eyes,
to name the visual points directly above. Some subjects even complained that when they opened
their eyes they lost track of the exact location of the touch points, which they seemed to
have when their eyes were closed. The tactual impression seems to be lost in the presence of
active vision.

On the whole, then, I feel quite sure in concluding that the overestimation of the filled cutaneous
spaces is not traceable to the influence of visualization. Parrish has explained all sporadic
cases of overestimation as due to the optical illusion carried over in visualization. I have
already shown that in my experiments visualization has really the opposite effect. In Parrish's
experiments the overestimation occurred in the case of those collections of points which were
so arranged as to allow the greatest differentiation among the points, and especially where
the end-points were more or less distinct from the rest. This, according to my theory, is precisely
what one would expect.

Those who have made quantitative studies in the optical illusion, especially in this particular
illusion for open and filled spaces, have observed and commented on the instability of the
illusion. Auerbach[11] says, in his investigation of the quantitative variations of the illusion,
that concentration of attention diminishes the illusion. In the Zöllner figure, for instance,
I have been able to notice the illusion fluctuate through a wide range, without eye-movements
and without definitely attending to any point, during the fluctuation of the attention. My
experiments with the tactual illusion have led me to the conclusion that it fluctuates even
more than the optical illusion. Any deliberation in the judgment causes the apparent size of
the filled space to shrink. The judgments that are given most rapidly and naïvely exhibit the
strongest tendency to overestimation; and yet these judgments are so consistent as to exclude
them from the category of guesses.

   [11] Auerbach, F., Zeitsch. f. Psych. u. Phys. d.
   Sinnesorgane, 1874, Bd. VII., S. 152.

In most of my experiments, however, I did not insist on rapid and naïve judgments; but by a
close observation of the subject as he was about to make a judgment I could tell quite plainly
which judgments were spontaneous and which were deliberate. By keeping track of these with
a system of marks, I was able to collect them in the end into groups representing fairly well
the different degrees of attention. The illusion is always greatest for the group of spontaneous
judgments, which points to the conclusion that all illusions, tactual as well as visual, are
very largely a function of attention.

In Section II. I told of my attempt to reproduce the optical illusion upon the skin in the
same form in which we find it for sight, namely, by presenting the open and filled spaces simultaneously,
so that they might be held in a unitary grasp of consciousness and the judgment pronounced
on the relative length of these parts of a whole. However, as I have already said, the filled
space appears longer, not only when given simultaneously, but also when given successively
with the open space. In the case of the optical illusion I am not so sure that the illusion
does not exist if the two spaces are not presented simultaneously and adjacent, as Münsterberg
asserts. Although, to be sure, for me the illusion is not so strong when an interval is allowed
between the two spaces, I was interested to know whether this was true also in the case of
a touch illusion. My previous tables did not enable me to compare the quantitative extent of
the illusion for successive and simultaneous presentation. But I found in two series which
had this point directly in view, one with the subject F and one in which G served as subject,
that the illusion was emphatically stronger when the open and filled spaces were presented
simultaneously and adjacent. In this instance, the illusion was doubtless a combination of
two illusions--a shrinking of the open space, on the one hand, and a lengthening of the filled
space on the other hand. Binet says, in his studies on the well-known Müller-Lyer illusion,
that he believes the illusion, in its highest effects at any rate, to be due to a double contrast
illusion.

This distortion of contrasted distances I have found in more than one case in this investigation--not
only in the case of distances in which there is a qualitative difference, but also in the case
of two open distances. In one experiment, in which open distances on the skin were compared
with optical point distances, a distance of 10 cm. was given fifty times in connection with
a distance of 15 cm., and fifty times in connection with a distance of 5 cm. In the former
instance the distance of 10 cm. was underestimated, and in the other it was overestimated.

The general conclusion of the entire investigation thus far may be summed up in the statement:
Wherever the objective conditions are the same in the two senses, the illusion exists in the
same direction for both sight and touch.

VI.

Thus far all of my experiments were made with passive touch. I intend now to pursue this problem
of the relation between the illusions of sight and touch into the region of active touch. I
have yielded somewhat to the current fashion in thus separating the passive from the active
touch in this discussion. I have already said that I believe it would be better not to make
this distinction so pronounced. Here again I have concerned myself primarily with only one
illusion, the illusion which deals with open and filled spaces. This is the illusion to which
Dresslar[12] devoted a considerable portion of his essay on the 'Psychology of Touch,' and
which he erroneously thought to be the counterpart of the optical illusion for open and filled
spaces. One of the earliest notices of this illusion is that given by James,[13] who says,
"Divide a line on paper into two equal halves, puncture the extremities, and make punctures
all along one of the halves; then, with the finger-tip on the opposite side of the paper, follow
the line of punctures; the empty half will seem much longer than the punctured half."

   [12] Dresslar, F.B., Am. Journ. of Psy., 1894, VI., p. 313.

   [13] James, W., 'Principles of Psychology,' New York, 1893,
   II., p. 250.

James has given no detailed account of his experiments. He does not tell us how many tests
were made, nor how long the lines were, nor whether the illusion was the same when the open
half was presented first. Dresslar took these important questions into consideration, and arrived
at a conclusion directly opposite to that of James, namely, that the filled half of the line
appears larger than the open half. Dresslar's conclusion is, therefore, that sight and touch
function alike. I have already said that I think that Parrish was entirely right in saying
that this is not the analogue of the familiar optical illusion. Nevertheless, I felt sure that
it would be quite worth the while to make a more extensive study than that which Dresslar has
reported. Others besides James and Dresslar have experimented with this illusion. As in the
case of the illusion for passive touch, there are not wanting champions of both opinions as
to the direction in which this illusion lies.

I may say in advance of the account of my experiments, that I have here also found a ground
of reconciliation for these two divergent opinions. Just as in the case of the illusion for
passive touch, there are here also certain conditions under which the filled space seems longer,
and other conditions under which it appears shorter than the open space. I feel warranted,
therefore, in giving in some detail my research on this illusion, which again has been an extended
one. I think that the results of this study are equally important with those for passive touch,
because of the further light which they throw on the way in which our touch sense functions
in the perception of the geometrical illusions. Dresslar's experiments, like those of James,
were made with cards in which one half was filled with punctures. The number of punctures in
each centimeter varied with the different cards. Dresslar's conclusion was not only that the
filled space is overestimated, but also that the overestimation varies, in a general way, with
the number of punctures in the filling. Up to a certain point, the more holes there are in
the card, the longer the space appears.

I had at the onset of the present experiment the same feeling about Dresslar's work that I
had about Parrish's work, which I have already criticised, namely, that a large number of experiments,
in which many variations were introduced, would bring to light facts that would explain the
variety of opinion that had hitherto been expressed. I was confident, however, that what was
most needed was a quantitative determination of the illusion. Then, too, inasmuch as the illusion,
whatever direction it takes, is certainly due to some sort of qualitative differences in the
two kinds of touch sensations, those from the punctured, and those from the smooth half, it
seemed especially desirable to introduce as many changes into the nature of the filling as
possible. The punctured cards I found very unsatisfactory, because they rapidly wear off, and
thus change the quality of the sensations, even from judgment to judgment.

The first piece of apparatus that I used in the investigation of the illusion for open and
filled space with active touch is shown in Fig. 7. A thimble A, in which the finger was carried,
moved freely along the rod B. The filled spaces were produced by rows of tacks on the roller
C. By turning the roller, different kinds of fillings were brought into contact with the finger-tip.
The paper D, on which the judgments were recorded by the subject, could be slowly advanced
under the roller E. Underneath the thimble carrier there was a pin so arranged that, by a slight
depression of the finger, a mark was made on the record paper beneath. A typical judgment was
made as follows; the subject inserted his finger in the thimble, slightly depressed the carrier
to record the starting points, then brought his finger-tip into contact with the first point
in the filled space. The subject was, of course, all the while ignorant of the length or character
of the filling over which he was about to pass. The finger-tip was then drawn along the points,
and out over the smooth surface of the roller, until the open space passed over was judged
equal to the filled space. Another slight depression of the finger registered the judgment
on the paper below. The paper was then moved forward by turning the roller E, and, if desired,
a different row of pins was put in place for judgment by revolving the roller C. The dividing
line between the open and filled spaces was continuously recorded on the paper from below by
a pin not shown in the illustration.

The rollers, of which I had three, were easily removed or turned about, so that the open space
was presented first. In one of the distances on each roller both spaces were unfilled. This
was used at frequent intervals in each series and served somewhat the same purpose as reversing
the order in which the open and filled spaces were presented. With some subjects this was the
only safe way of securing accurate results. The absolute distances measured off were not always
a sure criterion as to whether the filled space was under-or overestimated. For example, one
rather erratic subject, who was, however, very constant in his erratic judgments, as an average
of fifty judgments declared a filled space of 4 cm. to be equal to an open space of 3.7 cm.
This would seem, on the surface, to mean that the filled space had been underestimated. But
with these fifty judgments there were alternated judgments on two open spaces, in which the
first open space was judged equal to the second open space of 3.2 cm. From this it is obvious
that the effect of the filling was to cause an overestimation--not underestimation as seemed
at first sight to be the case.

In another instance, this same subject judged a filled space of 12.0 cm. to be equal to an
open space of 12.9 cm., which would seem to indicate an overestimation of the filled space.
But an average of the judgments on two open spaces that were given in alternation shows that
an equivalence was set up between the two at 13.7 cm. for the second open space. This would
show that the filling of a space really produced an underestimation.

The same results were obtained from other subjects. In my experiments on the illusion for passive
touch, I pointed out that it is unsafe to draw any conclusion from a judgment of comparison
between open and filled cutaneous spaces, unless we had previously determined what might be
called a standard judgment of comparison between two open spaces. The parts of our muscular
space are quite as unsymmetrical as the parts of our skin space. The difficulties arising from
this lack of symmetry can best be eliminated by introducing at frequent intervals judgments
on two open spaces. As I shall try to show later, the psychological character of the judgment
is entirely changed by reversing the order in which the spaces are presented, and we cannot
in this way eliminate the errors due to fluctuations of the attention.

The apparatus which I used in these first experiments possesses several manifest advantages.
Chief among these was the rapidity with which large numbers of judgments could be gathered
and automatically recorded. Then, in long distances, when the open space was presented first,
the subject found no difficulty in striking the first point of the filled space. Dresslar mentioned
this as one reason why in his experiments he could not safely use long distances. His subjects
complained of an anxious straining of the attention in their efforts to meet the first point
of the filled space.

There are two defects manifest in this apparatus. In the first place, the other tactual sensations
that arise from contact with the thimble and from the friction with the carrier moving along
the sliding rod cannot be disregarded as unimportant factors in the judgments. Secondly, there
is obviously a difference between a judgment that is made by the subject's stopping when he
reaches a point which seems to him to measure off equal spaces, and a judgment that is made
by sweeping the finger over a card, as in Dresslar's experiments, with a uniform motion, and
then, after the movement has ceased, pronouncing judgment upon the relative lengths of the
two spaces. In the former case the subject moves his finger uniformly until he approaches the
region of equality, and then slackens his speed and slowly comes to a standstill. This of course
changes the character of the judgments. Both of these defects I remedied in another apparatus
which will be described later. For my present purpose I may disregard these objections, as
they affect alike all the judgments.

In making the tests for the first series, the subject removed his finger after each judgment,
so that the position of the apparatus could be changed and the subject made to enter upon the
new judgment without knowing either the approximate length or the nature of the filling of
this new test. With this apparatus no attempt was made to discover the effects of introducing
changes in the rate of speed. The only requirement was that the motion should be uniform. This
does not mean that I disregarded the factor of speed. On the contrary, this time element I
consider as of the highest consequence in the whole of the present investigation. But I soon
discovered, in these experiments, that the subjects themselves varied the rate of speed from
judgment to judgment over a wide range of rates. There was no difficulty in keeping track of
these variations, by recording the judgments under three groups, fast, slow and medium. But
I found that I could do this more conveniently with another apparatus, and will tell at a later
place of the results of introducing a time element. In these first experiments the subject
was allowed to use any rate of speed which was convenient to him.

TABLE IX.

       Subjects      P      R      F      Rr
             2=     3.8    3.6    2.9     2.8
             3=     4.1    4.1    4.2     3.9
             4=     4.7    5.1    4.3     4.3
  Filled     5=     5.2    5.6    5.8     6.0
  Spaces.    6=     6.0    6.3    6.4     5.2
             7=     6.8    6.5    6.6     7.0
             8=     7.5    7.6    7.2     7.4
             9=     8.3    8.1    8.2     8.6
            10=     8.9    9.1    8.7     8.5

TABLE X.

       Subjects      P      R      F      Rr
             2=     4.0    3.8    3.2     2.6
             3=     4.3    4.2    4.4     3.6
             4=     4.6    5.6    4.6     4.8
  Filled     5=     5.4    6.1    5.6     5.7
  Spaces.    6=     6.2    6.4    6.8     6.9
             7=     7.3    6.8    7.9     7.2
             8=     7.8    7.4    7.3     7.8
             9=     8.6    8.0    7.9     8.9
            10=     9.3    9.1    8.9     8.5

TABLES IX. AND X.

    First line reads: 'When the finger-tip was drawn over a filled
    distance of 2 cm., the subject P measured off 3.8 on the
    open surface, the subject R 3.6, etc.' Each number is the
    average of five judgments. In Table IX. the points were set at
    regular intervals. In Table X. the filling was made irregular
    by having some points rougher than the others and set at
    different intervals.

I can give here only a very brief summary of the results with this apparatus. In Tables IX.
and X. I give a few of the figures which will show the tendency of the experiments. In these
tests a different length and a different filling were given for each judgment. The result of
the experiments of this group is, first, that the shorter filled spaces are judged longer and
the longer spaces shorter than they really were. Second, that an increase in the number of
points in the filled space causes no perceptible change in the apparent length. Third, that
when the filling is so arranged as to produce a tactual rhythm by changing the position or
size of every third point, the apparent length of the space is increased. It will be noticed,
also, that this is just the reverse of the result that was obtained for passive touch. These
facts, which were completely borne out by several other experiments with different apparatus
which I shall describe later, furnish again a reason why different investigators have hitherto
reported the illusion to exist, now in one direction, now in the other. Dresslar drew the conclusion
from his experiments that the filled spaces are always overestimated, but at the same time
his figures show an increasing tendency towards an underestimation of the filled spaces as
the distances increased in length. I shall later, in connection with similar results from other
experiments on this illusion, endeavor to explain these anomalous facts.

In section IV. I mentioned the fact that I found the illusion for passive touch to be subject
to large fluctuations. This is true also of the illusion for active touch. When the finger-tip
is drawn over the filled, and then out over the open space, the limits between which the stopping
point varies is a much wider range than when the finger-tip is drawn over two open spaces.
In the latter case I found the variation to follow Weber's Law in a general way. At first I
thought these erratic judgments were mere guesses on the part of the subject; but I soon discovered
a certain consistency in the midst of these extreme fluctuations. To show what I mean, I have
plotted some diagrams based on a few of the results for three subjects. These diagrams are
found in Fig. 8. It will be observed that the curve which represents the collection of stopping
points is shorter and higher where the judgments were on two open spaces. This shows plainly
a greater accuracy in the judgments than when the judgments were on a filled and an open space,
where the curves are seen to be longer and flatter. This fluctuation in the illusion becomes
important in the theoretical part of my discussion, and, at the risk of apparently emphasizing
unduly an insignificant matter, I have given in Fig. 9 an exact copy of a sheet of judgments
as it came from the apparatus. This shows plainly how the illusion wears away with practice,
when one distance is given several times in succession. The subject was allowed to give his
judgment on the same distance ten times before passing to another. A glance at the diagram
will show how pronounced the illusion is at first, and how it then disappears, and the judgment
settles down to a uniform degree of accuracy. It will be seen that the short filled space is
at first overestimated, and then, with the succeeding judgments, this overestimation is gradually
reduced. In the case of the longer filled distances (which could not be conveniently reproduced
here) the spaces were at first underestimated, and then this underestimation slowly decreased.

None of the qualitative studies that have hitherto been made on this illusion have brought
to light this significant wearing away of the illusion.

VII.

I have already spoken of the defects of the apparatus with which the experiments of the previous
chapter were made. I shall now give an account of some experiments that were made with an apparatus
designed to overcome these difficulties. This is shown in Fig. 10. The block C was clamped
to a table, while the block A could be moved back and forth by the lever B, in order to bring
up different lengths of filled space for judgment. For each judgment the subject brought his
finger back to the strip D, and by moving his finger up along the edge of this strip he always
came into contact with the first point of the new distance. The lever was not used in the present
experiment; but in later experiments, where the points were moved under the finger tip, which
was held stationary, this lever was very useful in producing different rates of speed. In one
series of experiments with this apparatus the filled spaces were presented first, and in another
series the open spaces were presented first. In the previous experiments, so far as I have
reported them, the filled spaces were always presented first.

In order to enable the subject to make proper connections with the first point in the filled
space, when the open space was presented first, a slight depression was put in the smooth surface.
This depression amounted merely to the suggestion of a groove, but it sufficed to guide the finger.

The general results of the first series of experiments with this apparatus were similar to
those already given, but were based on a very much larger number of judgments. They show at
once that the short filled spaces are overestimated, while the longer spaces are underestimated.
The uniformity of this law has seemed to me one of the most significant results of this entire
investigation. In the results already reported from the experiments with the former apparatus,
I have mentioned the fact that the judgments upon the distances fluctuate more widely when
one is filled and the other open, than when both are open. This fluctuation appeared again
in a pronounced way in the present experiments. I now set about to discover the cause of this
variation, which was so evidently outside of the limits of Weber's law.

TABLE XI.

                                I.                        II.
        Subjects.     R.      B.      A.        R.      B.       A.
             2=      3.1     3.2     3.7       2.7     2.5      3.1
             3=      4.5     4.4     4.1       4.1     4.0      3.6
             4=      5.3     5.0     4.3       4.2     4.6      4.6
             5=      6.0     5.1     5.8       5.9     5.2      4.3
             6=      6.8     5.6     6.2       6.9     5.3      6.0
             7=      7.4     7.2     6.9       7.6     7.3      6.8
             8=      8.1     8.4     7.3       8.3     9.7      7.8
             9=      9.3     9.0     8.5       9.5     8.9      8.7
  Filled    10=     10.1    10.0     8.1      10.3    10.0      9.2
  Spaces.   11=     10.5     9.3     9.7      10.6     8.7      9.6
            12=     11.7    10.6    10.6      11.8     9.7     10.2
            13=     12.3    10.9    10.9      11.1    10.2      9.6
            14=     12.2    11.5    12.2      10.4     9.6     11.3
            15=     13.6    12.3    11.9      13.1    10.1      9.6
            16=     14.1    13.5    14.1      12.3    13.2     13.3
            17=     14.9    12.9    14.6      14.1    12.6     13.7
            18=     15.0    15.3    14.9      15.0    15.3     13.8
            19=     15.2    14.6    15.2      14.1    13.9     14.2
            20=     17.1    16.5    15.7      16.1    16.4     14.7

    The first line of group I. reads: 'When the finger-tip was
    passed over a filled space of 2 cm., the subject R measured
    off 3.1 cm. on the open space, the subject B 3.2 cm., and
    the subject A 3.7.' In group II., the numbers represent the
    distance measured off when both spaces were unfilled.

In my search for the cause of the variations reported previously I first tried the plan of
obliging the subject to attend more closely to the filled space as his finger was drawn over
it. In order to do this, I held a piece of fine wire across the line of the filled space, and
after the subject had measured off the equal open space he was asked to tell whether or not
he had crossed the wire. The wire was so fine that considerable attention was necessary to
detect it. In some of the experiments the wire was inserted early in the filled space, and
in some near the end. When it was put in near the beginning, it was interesting to notice,
as illustrating the amount of attention that was being given to the effort of finding the wire,
that the subject, as soon as he had discovered it, would increase his speed, relax the attention,
and continue the rest of the journey more easily.

The general effect of this forcing of the attention was to increase the apparent length of
the filled space. This conclusion was reached by comparing these results with those in which
there was no compelled attention. When the obstacle was inserted early, the space was judged
shorter than when it came at the end of the filled space. This shows very plainly the effect
of continued concentration of attention, when that attention is directed intensely to the spot
immediately under the finger-tip. When the attention was focalized in this way, the subject
lost sight of the space as a whole. It rapidly faded out of memory behind the moving finger-tip.
But when this concentration of attention was not required, the subject was able to hold together
in consciousness the entire collection of discrete points, and he overestimated the space occupied
by them. It must be remembered here that I mean that the filled space with the focalized attention
was judged shorter than the filled space without such concentration of attention, but both
of these spaces were judged shorter than the adjacent open space. This latter fact I shall
attempt to explain later. Many other simple devices were employed to oblige the subject to
fix his attention on the space as it was traversed by the finger. The results were always the
same: the greater the amount of attention, the longer the distance seemed.

In another experiment, I tried the plan of tapping a bell as the subject was passing over the
filled space and asking him, after he had measured off the equivalent open space, whether the
sound had occurred in the first half or in the second half of the filled space.

When the finger-tip was drawn over two adjacent open spaces, and during the first a bell was
tapped continuously, this kind of filled space was underestimated if the distance was long
and overestimated if the distance was short. So, too, if a disagreeable odor was held to the
nostrils while the finger-tip was being drawn over one of the two adjacent open spaces, the
space thus filled by the sensations of smell followed the law already stated. But if an agreeable
perfume was used, the distance always seemed shorter than when an unpleasant odor was given.

In all of these experiments with spaces filled by means of other than tactual sensations, I
always compared the judgment on the filled and open spaces with judgments on two open spaces,
in order to guard against any error due to unsymmetrical, subjective conditions for the two
spaces. It is difficult to have the subject so seat himself before the apparatus as to avoid
the errors arising from tension and flexion. In one experiment, a piece of plush was used for
the filled space and the finger drawn over it against the nap. This filled space was judged
longer than a piece of silk of equal length. The sensations from the plush were very unpleasant.
One subject said, even, that they made him shudder. This was of course precisely what was wanted
for the experiment. It showed that the affective tone of the sensation within the filled space
was a most important factor in producing an illusory judgment of distance.

The overestimation of these filled spaces is evidently due in a large measure to æsthetic motives.
The space that is filled with agreeable sensations is judged shorter than one which is filled
with disagreeable sensations. In other words, the illusions in judgments on cutaneous space
are not so much dependent on the quality of sensations that we get from the outer world through
these channels, as from the amount of inner activity that we set over against these bare sense-perceptions.

I have already spoken of the defects of this method of measuring off equivalent distances as
a means of getting at the quantitative amount of the illusion. The results that have come to
light thus far have, however, amply justified the method. I had no difficulty, however, in
adapting my apparatus to the other way of getting the judgments. I had a short curved piece
of wire inserted in the handle, which could be held across the line traversed, and thus the
end of the open space could be marked out. Different lengths were presented to the subject
as before, but now the subject passed his finger in a uniform motion over the spaces, after
which he pronounced the judgment 'greater,' 'equal,' or 'less.' The general result of these
experiments was not different from those already given. The short, filled spaces were overestimated,
while the longer ones were underestimated. The only difference was found to be that now the
transition from one direction to the other was at a more distant point. It was, of course,
more difficult to convert these qualitative results into a quantitative determination of the
illusion.

Before passing to the experiments in which the open spaces were presented first, I wish to
offer an explanation for the divergent tendencies that were exhibited through all the experiments
of the last two sections, namely, that the short filled spaces are overestimated and the long
spaces underestimated. Let us take two typical judgments, one in which a filled space of 3
cm. is judged equal to an open space of 4.2 cm., and then one in which the filled space is
9 cm., and is judged equal to an open space of 7.4 cm. In the case of the shorter distance,
because of its shortness, after the finger leaves it, it is held in a present state of consciousness
for some moments, and does not suffer the foreshortening that comes from pastness. This is,
however, only a part of the reason for its overestimation. After the finger-tip has left the
filled space, and while it is traversing the first part of the open space, there is a dearth
of sensations. The tactual sensations are meager and faint, and muscular tensions have not
yet had time to arise. It is not until the finger has passed over several centimeters of the
distance, that the surprise of its barrenness sets up the organic sensations of muscular strain.
One subject remarked naïvely at the end of some experiments of this kind, that the process
of judging was an easy and comfortable affair so long as he was passing over the filled space,
but when he set out upon the open space he had to pay far more strict attention to the experiment.

By a careful introspection of the processes in my own case, I came to the conclusion that it
is certainly a combination of these two illusions that causes the overestimation of the short
filled distances. In the case of the long distances, the underestimation of the filled space
is, I think, again due to a combination of two illusions. When the finger-tip leaves the filled
space, part of it, because of its length, has already, as it were, left the specious present,
and has suffered the foreshortening effect of being relegated to the past. And, on the other
hand, after the short distance of the open space has been traversed the sensations of muscular
strain become very pronounced, and cause a premature judgment of equality.

One subject, who was very accurate in his judgments, and for whom the illusion hardly existed,
said, when asked to explain his method of judging, that after leaving the filled space he exerted
a little more pressure with his finger as he passed over the open space, so as to get the same
quantity of tactual sensations in both instances. The muscular tension that was set up when
the subject had passed out over the open space a short way was very plainly noticeable in some
subjects, who were seen at this time to hold their breath.

I have thus far continually spoken of the space containing the tacks as being the filled space,
and the smooth surface as the open space. But now we see that in reality the name should be
reversed, especially for the longer distances. The smooth surface is, after the first few centimeters,
very emphatically filled with sensations arising from the organism which, as I have already
intimated, are of the most vital importance in our spatial judgments. Now, according to the
most generally accepted psychological theories, it is these organic sensations which are the
means whereby we measure time, and our spatial judgments are, in the last analysis, I will
not for the present say dependent on, but at any rate fundamentally related to our time judgments.

VIII.

In the last section I attempted to explain the overestimation of short filled spaces, and the
underestimation of long filled spaces by active touch, as the result of a double illusion arising
from the differences in the manner and amount of attention given to the two kinds of spaces
when they are held in immediate contrast. This explanation was of course purely theoretical.
I have thus far offered no experiments to show that this double illusion of lengthening, on
the one hand, and shortening, on the other, does actually exist. I next made some simple experiments
which seemed to prove conclusively that the phenomenon does not exist, or at least not in so
important a way, when the time factor is not permitted to enter.

In these new experiments the filled and the open spaces were compared separately with optical
distances. After the finger-tip was drawn over the filled path, judgment was given on it at
once by comparing it directly with an optical distance. In this way the foreshortening effect
of time was excluded. In all these experiments it was seen that the filled space was judged
longer when the judgment was pronounced on it at once than when an interval of time was allowed,
either by drawing the finger-tip out over the open space, as in the previous experiment, or
by requiring the subject to withhold his judgment until a certain signal was given. Any postponement
of the judgment resulted in the disappearance of a certain amount of the illusion. The judgments
that were made rapidly and without deliberation were subject to the strongest illusion. I have
already spoken of the unanimous testimony which all who have made quantitative studies in the
corresponding optical illusions have given in this matter of the diminution of the illusion
with the lapse of time. The judgments that were made without deliberation always exhibited
the strongest tendency to illusion.

I have already said that the illusion for passive touch was greatest when the two spaces were
presented simultaneously and adjacent. Dresslar has mentioned in his studies on the 'Psychology
of Touch,' that the time factor cannot enter into an explanation of this illusion; but the
experiments of which I have just spoken seem to point plainly to a very intimate relation between
this illusion and the illusions in our judgments of time. We have here presented on a diminutive
scale the illusions which we see in our daily experience in comparing past with present stretches
of time. It is a well-known psychological experience that a filled time appears short in passing,
but long in retrospect, while an empty time appears long in passing, but short in retrospect.
Now this illusion of the open and filled space, for the finger-tip, is at every point similar
to the illusion to which our time judgment is subject. If we pronounce judgment on a filled
space or filled time while we are still actually living in it, it seems shorter than it really
is, because, while we pay attention to the discrete sensations of external origin, we lose
sight of the sensations of internal origin, which are the sole means whereby we measure lapse
of time, and we consequently underestimate such stretches of time or space. But when the sensations
from the outer world which enter into such filled spaces or times exist only in memory, the
time-measuring sensations of internal origin are allowed their full effect; and such spaces
and times seem much longer than when we are actually passing through them.

I dwell on this illusion at a length which may seem out of proportion to its importance. My
object has been to show how widely different are the objective conditions here from what they
are in the optical illusion which has so often been called the analogue of this. James[14]
has said of this tactual illusion: 'This seems to bring things back to the unanalyzable laws,
by reason of which our feeling of size is determined differently in the skin and in the retina
even when the objective conditions are the same.' I think that my experiments have shown that
the objective conditions are not the same; that they differ in that most essential of all factors,
namely, the time element. Something very nearly the analogue of the optical illusion is secured
when we take very short open and filled tactual spaces, and move over them very rapidly. Here
the illusion exists in the same direction as it does for sight, as has already been stated.
On the other hand, a phenomenon more nearly parallel to the tactual illusion, as reported in
the experiments of James and Dresslar, is found if we take long optical distances, and traverse
the open and filled spaces continuously, without having both parts of the line entirely in
the field of view at any one moment. I made a few experiments with the optical illusion in
this form. The filled and open spaces were viewed by the subject through a slot which was passed
over them. These experiments all pointed in the direction of an underestimation of a filled
space. Everywhere in this illusion, then, where the objective conditions were at all similar
for sight and touch, the resulting illusion exists in the same direction for both senses.

   [14] James, William, 'Principles of Psychology,' New York, II.,
   p. 250.

Throughout the previous experiments with the illusion for active touch we saw the direct influence
of the factor of time. I have yet one set of experiments to report, which seems to me to prove
beyond the possibility of a doubt the correctness of my position. These experiments were made
with the apparatus shown in Fig. 10. The subjects proceeded precisely as before. The finger-tip
was passed over the filled space, and then out over the open space, until an equivalent distance
was measured off. But while the subject was drawing his fingers over the spaces, the block
A was moved in either direction by means of the lever B. The subjects were all the while kept
ignorant of the fact that the block was being moved. They all expressed great surprise on being
told, after the experiments were over, that the block had been moved under the finger-tip through
such long distances without their being able to detect it. The block always remained stationary
as the finger passed over one space, but was moved either with or against the finger as it
passed over the other space.

TABLE XII.

     A      B       C       D        E
     4     7.1     2.6     2.4      6.5
     5     8.3     3.1     3.3      8.7
     6     8.2     3.3     4.1      9.2
     7     9.7     3.6     3.7     10.1
     8    10.5     3.7     4.5     10.6
     9    12.4     4.8     5.1     11.5
    10    13.1     4.7     5.3     13.2
    11    13.3     5.3     6.1     14.6
    12    13.7     6.9     7.2     12.7
    13    14.6     7.5     8.1     13.2
    14    15.3     8.2     9.4     15.6
    15    15.7     8.7    10.3     14.9

    Column A contains the filled spaces, columns B, C, D,
     E the open spaces that were judged equal. In B the block
    was moved with the finger, and in C against the finger as it
    traversed the filled space, and in D and E the block was
    moved with and against the finger respectively as it passed
    over the open space. The block was always moved approximately
    one-half the distance of the filled space.

I have given some of the results for one subject in Table XII. These results show at a glance
how potent a factor the time element is. The quantity of tactual sensations received by the
finger-tip enters into the judgment of space to no appreciable extent. With one subject, after
he had passed his finger over a filled space of 10 cm. the block was moved so as almost to
keep pace with the finger as it passed over the open space. In this way the subject was forced
to judge a filled space of 10 cm. equal to only 2 cm. of the open space. And when the block
was moved in the opposite direction he was made to judge a distance of 10 cm. equal to an open
distance of 16 cm.

The criticism may be made on these experiments that the subject has not in reality been obliged
to rely entirely upon the time sense, but that he has equated the two spaces as the basis of
equivalent muscle or joint sensation, which might be considered independent of the sensations
which yield the notion of time. I made some experiments, however, to prove that this criticism
would not be well founded. By arranging the apparatus so that the finger-tip could be held
stationary, and the block with the open and filled spaces moved back and forth under it, the
measurement by joint and muscle sensations was eliminated.

It will be observed that no uniform motion could be secured by simply manipulating the lever
with the hand. But uniformity of motion was not necessary for the results at which I aimed
here. Dresslar has laid great stress on the desirability of having uniform motion in his similar
experiments. But this, it seems to me, is precisely what is not wanted. With my apparatus,
I was able to give widely different rates of speed to the block as it passed under the finger-tip.
By giving a slow rate for the filled space and a much more rapid rate for the open space, I
found again that the subject relied hardly at all on the touch sensations that came from the
finger-tip, but almost entirely on the consciousness of the amount of time consumed in passing
over the spaces. The judgments were made as in the previous experiments with this apparatus.
When the subject reached the point in the open space which he judged equal to the filled space,
he slightly depressed his finger and stopped the moving block. In this way, the subject was
deprived of any assistance from arm-movements in his judgments, and was obliged to rely on
the tactual impressions received at the finger-tip, or on his time sense. That these tactual
sensations played here also a very minor part in the judgment of the distance was shown by
the fact that these sensations could be doubled or trebled by doubling or trebling the amount
of space traversed, without perceptibly changing the judgment, provided the rate of speed was
increased proportionately. Spaces that required the same amount of time in traversing were
judged equal.

In all these experiments the filled space was presented first. When the open space was presented
first, the results for four out of five subjects were just reversed. For short distances the
filled space was underestimated, for long distances the filled space was overestimated. A very
plausible explanation for these anomalous results is again to be found in the influence of
the time factor. The open space seemed longer while it was being traversed, but rapidly foreshortened
after it was left for the filled space. While on the other hand, if the judgment was pronounced
while the subject was still in the midst of the filled space, it seemed shorter than it really
was. The combination of these two illusions is plainly again responsible for the underestimation
of the short filled spaces. The same double illusion may be taken to explain the opposite tendency
for the longer distances.

IX.

The one generalization that I have thus far drawn from the investigation--namely, that the
optical illusions are not reversed in passing from the field of touch, and that we therefore
have a safe warrant for the conclusion that sight and touch do function alike--has contained
no implicit or expressed assertion as to the origin of our notion of space. I have now reached
the point where I must venture an explanation of the illusion itself.

The favorite hypothesis for the explanation of the geometrical optical illusions is the movement
theory. The most generally accepted explanation of the illusion with whose tactual counterpart
this paper is concerned, is that given by Wundt.[15] Wundt's explanation rests on variation
in eye movements. When the eye passes over broken distances, the movement is made more difficult
by reason of the frequent stoppages. The fact that the space which is filled with only one
point in the middle is underestimated, is explained by Wundt on the theory that the eye has
here the tendency to fix on the middle point and to estimate the distance by taking in the
whole space at once without moving from this middle point. A different explanation for this
illusion is offered by Helmholtz.[16] He makes use of the æsthetic factor of contrasts. Wundt
insists that the fact that this illusion is still present when there are no actual eye movements
does not demonstrate that the illusion is not to be referred to a motor origin. He says, "If
a phenomenon is perceived with the moving eye only, the influence of movement on it is undoubtedly
true. But an inference cannot be drawn in the opposite direction, that movement is without
influence on the phenomenon that persists when there is no movement."[17]

   [15] Wundt., W., 'Physiolog. Psych.,' 4te Aufl., Leipzig, 1893,
   Bd. II., S. 144.

   [16] v. Helmholtz, H., 'Handbuch d. Physiol. Optik,' 2te Aufl.,
   Hamburg u. Leipzig, 1896, S. 705.

   [17] Wundt, W., op. citat., S. 139.

Satisfactorily as the movement hypothesis explains this and other optical illusions, it yet
falls short of furnishing an entirely adequate explanation. It seems to me certain that several
causes exist to produce this illusion, and also the illusion that is often associated with
it, the well-known Müller-Lyer illusion. But in what degree each is present has not yet been
determined by any of the quantitative studies in this particular illusion. I made a number
of tests of the optical illusion, with these results: that the illusion is strongest when the
attention is fixed at about the middle of the open space, that there is scarcely any illusion
left when the attention is fixed on the middle of the filled space. It is stronger when the
outer end-point of the open space is fixated than when the outer end of the filled space is
fixated. For the moving eye, I find the illusion to be much stronger when the eye passes over
the filled space first, and then over the open space, than when the process is reversed.

Now, the movement hypothesis does not, it seems to me, sufficiently explain all the fluctuations
in the illusion. My experiments with the tactual illusion justify the belief that the movement
theory is even less adequate to explain all of the variations there, unless the movement hypothesis
is given a wider and richer interpretation than is ordinarily given to it. In the explanation
of the tactual illusion which I have here been studying two other important factors must be
taken into consideration. These I shall call, for the sake of convenience, the æsthetic factor
and the time factor. These factors should not, however, be regarded as independent of the factor
of movement. That term should be made wide enough to include these within its meaning. The
importance of the time factor in the illusion for passive touch I have already briefly mentioned.
I have also, in several places in the course of my experiments, called attention to the importance
of the æsthetic element in our space judgments. I wish now to consider these two factors more
in detail.

The foregoing discussion has pointed to the view that the space-perceiving and the localizing
functions of the skin have a deep-lying common origin in the motor sensations. My experiments
show that, even in the highly differentiated form in which we find them in their ordinary functioning,
they plainly reveal their common origin. A formula, then, for expressing the judgments of distance
by means of the resting skin might be put in this way. Let P and P' represent any two points
on the skin, and let L and L' represent the local signs of these points, and M and M' the muscle
sensations which give rise to these local signs. Then M-M' will represent the distance between
P and P', whether that distance be judged directly in terms of the localizing function of the
skin or in terms of its space-perceiving function. This would be the formula for a normal judgment.
In an illusory judgment, the temporal and æsthetic factors enter as disturbing elements. Now,
the point which I insist on here is that the judgments of the extent of the voluntary movements,
represented in the formula by M and M', do not depend alone on the sensations from the moving
parts or other sensations of objective origin, as Dresslar would say, nor alone on the intention
or impulse or innervation as Loeb and others claim, but on the sum of all the sensory elements
that enter, both those of external and those of internal origin. And, furthermore, these sensations
of external origin are important in judgments of space, only in so far as they are referred
to sensations of internal origin. Delabarre says, "Movements are judged equal when their sensory
elements are judged equal. These sensory elements need not all have their source in the moving
parts. All sensations which are added from other parts of the body and which are not recognized
as coming from these distant sources, are mingled with the elements from the moving member,
and influence the judgment."[18] The importance of these sensations of inner origin was shown
in many of the experiments in sections VI. to VIII. In the instance where the finger-tip was
drawn over an open and a filled space, in the filled half the sensations were largely of external
origin, while in the open half they were of internal origin. The result was that the spaces
filled with sensations of internal origin were always overestimated.

The failure to recognize the importance of these inwardly initiated sensations is the chief
defect in Dresslar's reasoning. He has endeavored to make our judgments in the illusion in
question depend entirely on the sensations of external origin. He insists also that the illusion
varies according to the variations in quantity of these external sensations. Now my experiments
have shown, I think, very clearly that it is not the numerical or quantitative extent of the
objective sensations which disturbs the judgment of distance, but the sensation of inner origin
which we set over against these outer sensations. The piece of plush, because of the disagreeable
sensations which it gives, is judged shorter than the space filled with closely crowded tacks.
Dresslar seems to have overlooked entirely the fact that the feelings and emotions can be sources
of illusions in the amount of movement, and hence in our judgments of space. The importance
of this element has been pointed out by Münsterberg[19] in his studies of movement.

   [18] Delabarre, E.B., 'Ueber Bewegungsempfindungen,' Inaug.
   Dissert., Freiburg, 1891.

   [19] Münsterberg, H., 'Beiträge zur Experimentellen Psychol.,'
   Freiburg i. B., 1892, Heft 4.

Dresslar says again, "The explanations heretofore given, wholly based on the differences in
the time the eye uses in passing over the two spaces, must stop short of the real truth." My
experiments, however, as I have already indicated, go to prove quite the contrary. In short,
I do not think we have any means of distinguishing our tactual judgments of time from our similar
judgments of space. When the subject is asked to measure off equal spaces, he certainly uses
time as means, because when he is asked to measure off equal times he registers precisely the
same illusion that he makes in his judgments of spatial distances. The fact that objectively
equal times were used by Dresslar in his experiments is no reason for supposing that the subject
also regarded these times as equal. What I have here asserted of active touch is true also
of the resting skin. When a stylus is drawn over the skin, the subject's answer to the question,
How long is the distance? is subject to precisely the same illusion as his answer to the question,
How long is the time?

I can by a simple illustration show more plainly what I mean by the statement that the blending
of the inner and outer sensations is necessary for the perception of space. I shall use the
sense of sight for the illustration, although precisely the same reasoning would apply to the
sense of touch. Suppose that I sat in an entirely passive position and gazed at a spot on an
otherwise blank piece of paper before me. I am perfectly passive so far as motion on my part
is concerned. I may be engaged in any manner of speculation or be in the midst of the so-called
active attention to the spot; but I must be and for the present remain motionless. Now, while
I am in this condition of passivity, suppose the spot be made to move slowly to one side by
some force external to myself. I am immovable all the while, and yet am conscious of this movement
of the spot from the first position, which I call A, to the new position, A', where it stops.
The sensation which I now have is qualitatively different from the sensation which I had from
the spot in its original position. My world of experience thus far has been a purely qualitative
one. I might go on to eternity having experiences of the same kind, and never dream of space,
or geometry, nor should I have the unique experience of a geometrical illusion, either optical
or tactual. Now suppose I set up the bodily movements of the eyes or the head, or of the whole
body, which are necessary to follow the path of that point, until I overtake it and once more
restore the quality of the original sensation. This circle, completed by the two processes
of external activity and restoration by internal activity, forms a group of sensations which
constitutes the ultimate atom in our spatial experience. I have my first spatial experience
when I have the thrill of satisfaction that comes from overtaking again, by means of my own
inner activity, a sensation that has escaped me through an activity not my own. A being incapable
of motion, in a world of flux, would not have the spatial experience that we have. A being
incapable of motion could not make the distinction between an outer change that can be corrected
by an internal change, and an outer change that cannot so be restored. Such an external change
incapable of restoration by internal activity we should have if the spot on the paper changed
by a chemical process from black to red.

Now such a space theory is plainly not to be confused with the theory that makes the reversibility
of the spatial series its primary property. It is evident that we can have a series of sensations
which may be reversed and yet not give the notion of space. But we should always have space-perception
if one half of the circular process above described comes from an outer activity, and the other
half from an inner activity. This way of describing the reversibility of the spatial series
makes it less possible to urge against it the objections that Stumpf[20] has formulated against
Bain's genetic space-theory. Stumpf's famous criticism applies not only to Bain, but also to
the other English empiricists and to Wundt. Bain says: "When with the hand we grasp something
moving and move with it, we have a sensation of one unchanged contact and pressure, and the
sensation is imbedded in a movement. This is one experience. When we move the hand over a fixed
surface, we have with the feelings of movement a succession of feelings of touch; if the surface
is a variable one, the sensations are constantly changing, so that we can be under no mistake
as to our passing through a series of tactual impressions. This is another experience, and
differs from the first not in the sense of power, but in the tactile accompaniment. The difference,
however, is of vital importance. In the one case, we have an object moving and measuring time
and continuous, in the other case we have coëxistence in space. The coëxistence is still further
made apparent by our reversing the movement, and thereby meeting the tactile series in the
inverse order. Moreover, the serial order is unchanged by the rapidity of our movements."[21]

   [20] Stumpf, K., 'Ueber d. psycholog. Ursprung d.
   Raumvorstellung,' Leipzig, 1873, S. 54.

   [21] Bain, A., 'The Senses and the Intellect,' 3d ed., New
   York, 1886, p. 183.

Stumpf maintained in his exhaustive criticism of this theory, first, that there are cases where
all of the elements which Bain requires for the perception of space are present, and yet we
have no presentation of space. Secondly, there are cases where not all of these elements are
present, and where we have nevertheless space presentation. It is the first objection that
concerns me here. Stumpf gives as an example, under his first objection, the singing of a series
of tones, C, G, E, F. We have here the muscle sensations from the larynx, and the series of
the tone-sensations which are, Stumpf claims, reversed when the muscle-sensations are reversed,
etc. According to Stumpf, these are all the elements that are required by Bain, and yet we
have no perception of space thereby. Henri[22] has pointed out two objections to Stumpf's criticism
of Bain's theory. He says that Bain assumes, what Stumpf does not recognize, that the muscle
sensations must contain three elements--resistance, time, and velocity--before they can lead
to space perceptions. These three elements are not to be found in the muscle sensations of
the larynx as we find them in the sensations that come from the eye or arm muscles. In addition
to this, Henri claims that Bain's theory demands a still further condition. If we wish to touch
two objects, A and B, with the same member, we can get a spatial experience from the process
only if we insert between the touching of A and the touching of B a continual series of tactual
sensations. In Stumpf's instance of the singing of tones, this has been overlooked. We can
go from the tone C to the tone F without inserting between the two a continuous series of musical
sensations.

   [22] Henri, V., 'Ueber d. Raumwahrnehmungen d. Tastsinnes,'
   Berlin, 1898, S. 190.

I think that all such objections to the genetic space theories are avoided by formulating a
theory in the manner in which I have just stated. When one says that there must be an outer
activity producing a displacement of sensation, and then an inner activity retaining that sensation,
it is plain that the singing of a series of tones ascending and then descending would not be
a case in point.

       *       *       *       *       *

TACTUAL TIME ESTIMATION.

BY KNIGHT DUNLAP.

I. GENERAL NATURE OF THE WORK.

The experiments comprised in this investigation were made during the year 1900-1901 and the
early part of the year 1901-1902. They were planned as the beginning of an attempt at the analysis
of the estimation of time intervals defined by tactual stimulations. The only published work
in this quarter of the field so far is that of Vierordt,[1] who investigated only the constant
error of time judgment, using both auditory and tactual stimulations, and that of Meumann,[2]
who in his last published contribution to the literature of the time sense gives the results
of his experiments with 'filled' and 'empty' tactual intervals. The stimuli employed by Meumann
were, however, not purely tactual, but electrical.

   [1] Vierordt: 'Der Zeitsinn,' Tübingen, 1868.

   [2] Meumann, E.: 'Beiträge zur Psychologie des
   Zeitbewusstseins,' III., Phil. Studien, XII., S. 195-204.

The limitation of time intervals by tactual stimulations offers, however, a rich field of variations,
which promise assistance in the analytical problem of the psychology of time. The variations
may be those of locality, area, intensity, rigidity, form, consecutiveness, and so on, in addition
to the old comparisons of filled and empty intervals, intervals of varying length, and intervals
separated by a pause and those not so separated.

To begin with, we have selected the conditions which are mechanically the simplest, namely,
the comparison of two empty time intervals, both given objectively with no pause between them.
We have employed the most easily accessible dermal areas, namely, that of the fingers of one
or both hands, and introduced the mechanically simplest variations, namely, in locality stimulated
and intensity of stimulation.

It was known from the results of nearly all who have studied the time sense experimentally,
that there is in general a constant error of over- or underestimation of time intervals of
moderate length, and from the results of Meumann,[3] that variations in intensity of limiting
stimulation influenced the estimation decidedly, but apparently according to no exact law.
The problem first at hand was then to see if variations introduced in tactual stimulations
produce any regularity of effect, and if they throw any new light on the phenomena of the constant
error.

   [3] Meumaun, E.: 'Beiträge zur Psychologie des Zeitsinns,' II.,
   Phil. Studien, IX., S. 264.

The stimulations employed were light blows from the cork tip of a hammer actuated by an electric
current. These instruments, of which there were two, exactly alike in construction, were similar
in principle to the acoustical hammers employed by Estel and Mehner. Each consisted essentially
of a lever about ten inches in length, pivoted near one extremity, and having fastened to it
near the pivot an armature so acted upon by an electromagnet as to depress the lever during
the passage of an electric current. The lever was returned to its original position by a spring
as soon as the current through the electromagnet ceased. A clamp at the farther extremity held
a small wooden rod with a cork tip, at right angles to the pivot, and the depression of the
lever brought this tip into contact with the dermal surface in proximity with which it had
been placed. The rod was easily removable, so that one bearing a different tip could be substituted
when desired. The whole instrument was mounted on a compact base attached to a short rod, by
which it could be fastened in any desired position in an ordinary laboratory clamp.

During the course of most of the experiments the current was controlled by a pendulum beating
half seconds and making a mercury contact at the lowest point of its arc. A condenser in parallel
with the contact obviated the spark and consequent noise of the current interruption. A key,
inserted in the circuit through the mercury cup and tapping instrument, allowed it to be opened
or closed as desired, so that an interval of any number of half seconds could be interposed
between successive stimulations.

In the first work, a modification of the method of right and wrong cases was followed, and
found satisfactory. A series of intervals, ranging from one which was on the whole distinctly
perceptible as longer than the standard to one on the whole distinctly shorter, was represented
by a series of cards. Two such series were shuffled together, and the intervals given in the
order so determined. Thus, when the pile of cards had been gone through, two complete series
had been given, but in an order which the subject was confident was perfectly irregular. As
he also knew that in a given series there were more than one occurrence of each compared interval
(he was not informed that there were exactly two of each), every possible influence favored
the formation each time of a perfectly fresh judgment without reference to preceding judgments.
The only fear was lest certain sequences of compared intervals (e.g., a long compared interval
in one test followed by a short one in the next), might produce unreliable results; but careful
examination of the data, in which the order of the interval was always noted, fails to show
any influence of such a factor.

To be more explicit with regard to the conditions of judgment; two intervals were presented
to the subject in immediate succession. That is, the second stimulation marked the end of the
first interval and the beginning of the second. The first interval was always the standard,
while the second, or compared interval, varied in length, as determined by the series of cards,
and the subject was requested to judge whether it was equal to, or longer or shorter than the
standard interval.

In all of the work under Group 1, and the first work under Group 2, the standard interval employed
was 5.0 seconds. This interval was selected because the minimum variation possible with the
pendulum apparatus (½ sec.) was too great for the satisfactory operation of a shorter standard,
and it was not deemed advisable to keep the subject's attention on the strain for a longer
interval, since 5.0 sec. satisfied all the requirements of the experiment.

In all work here reported, the cork tip on the tapping instrument was circular in form, and
1 mm. in diameter. In all, except one experiment of the second group, the areas stimulated
were on the backs of the fingers, just above the nails. In the one exception a spot on the
forearm was used in conjunction with the middle finger.

In Groups 1 and 2 the intensity of stroke used was just sufficient to give a sharp and distinct
stimulation. The intensity of the stimulation was not of a high degree of constancy from day
to day, on account of variations in the electric contacts, but within each test of three stimulations
the intensity was constant enough.

In experiments under Group 3 two intensities of strokes were employed, one somewhat stronger
than the stroke employed in the other experiments, and one somewhat weaker--just strong enough
to be perceived easily. The introduction of the two into the same test was effected by the
use of an auxiliary loop in the circuit, containing a rheostat, so that the depression of the
first key completed the circuit as usual, or the second key completed it through the rheostat.

At each test the subject was warned to prepare for the first stimulation by a signal preceding
it at an exact interval. In experiments with the pendulum apparatus the signal was the spoken
word 'now,' and the preparatory interval one second. Later, experiments were undertaken with
preparatory intervals of one second and 1-4/5 seconds, to find if the estimation differed perceptibly
in one case from that in the other. No difference was found, and in work thereafter each subject
was allowed the preparatory interval which made the conditions subjectively most satisfactory
to him.

Ample time for rest was allowed the subject after each test in a series, two (sometimes three)
series of twenty to twenty-four tests being all that were usually taken in the course of the
hour. Attention to the interval was not especially fatiguing and was sustained without difficulty
after a few trials.

Further details will be treated as they come up in the consideration of the work by groups,
into which the experiment naturally falls.

II. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS.

1. The first group of experiments was undertaken to find the direction of the constant error
for the 5.0 sec. standard, the extent to which different subjects agree and the effects of
practice. The tests were therefore made with three taps of equal intensity on a single dermal
area. The subject sat in a comfortable position before a table upon which his arm rested. His
hand lay palm down on a felt cushion and the tapping instrument was adjusted immediately over
it, in position to stimulate a spot on the back of the finger, just above the nail. A few tests
were given on the first finger and a few on the second alternately throughout the experiments,
in order to avoid the numbing effect of continual tapping on one spot. The records for each
of the two fingers were however kept separately and showed no disagreement.

The detailed results for one subject (Mr,) are given in Table I. The first column, under CT,
gives the values of the different compared intervals employed. The next three columns, under
S, E and L, give the number of judgments of shorter, equal and longer, respectively. The fifth
column, under W, gives the number of errors for each compared interval, the judgments of equal
being divided equally between the categories of longer and shorter.

In all the succeeding discussion the standard interval will be represented by ST, the compared
interval by CT. ET is that CT which the subject judges equal to ST.

TABLE I.

      ST=5.0 SEC. SUBJECT Mr. 60 SERIES.

    CT       S       E       L       W
    4.         58         1         1         1.5
    4.5        45        11         4         9.5
    5.         32        13        15        21.5
    5.5        19        16        25        27
    6.          5         4        51         7
    6.5         1         2        57         2

We can calculate the value of the average ET if we assume that the distribution of wrong judgments
is in general in accordance with the law of error curve. We see by inspection of the first
three columns that this value lies between 5.0 and 5.5, and hence the 32 cases of S for CT
5.0 must be considered correct, or the principle of the error curve will not apply.

The method of computation may be derived in the following way: If we take the origin so that
the maximum of the error curve falls on the Y axis, the equation of the curve becomes

      y = ke^{-[gamma]²x²}

and, assuming two points (x{1} y{1}) and (x{2} y{2}) on the curve, we deduce the formula

                   ±D \/ log k/y{1}
  x{1} = ---------------------------------

            \/ log k/y{1} ± \/ log k/y{2}

where D = x{1} ± x{2}, and k = value of y when x = 0.

x{1} and x{2} must, however, not be great, since the condition that the curve with which we
are dealing shall approximate the form denoted by the equation is more nearly fulfilled by
those portions of the curve lying nearest to the Y axis.

Now since for any ordinates, y{1} and y{2} which we may select from the table, we know the
value of x{1} ± x{2}, we can compute the value of x{1}, which conversely gives us the amount
to be added to or subtracted from a given term in the series of CT's to produce the value of
the average ET. This latter value, we find, by computing by the formula given above, using
the four terms whose values lie nearest to the Y axis, is 5.25 secs.

In Table II are given similar computations for each of the nine subjects employed, and from
this it will be seen that in every case the standard is overestimated.

TABLE II. ST= 5.0 SECS.

    Subject.      Average ET.   No. of Series.
     A.            5.75           50
     B.            5.13           40
     Hs.           5.26          100
     P.            5.77           38
     Mn.           6.19           50
     Mr.           5.25           60
     R.            5.63           24
     Sh.           5.34          100
     Sn.           5.57           50

This overestimation of the 5.0 sec. standard agrees with the results of some of the experimenters
on auditory time and apparently conflicts with the results of others. Mach[4] found no constant
error. Höring[5] found that intervals over 0.5 sec. were overestimated. Vierordt,[6] Kollert,[7]
Estel[8] and Glass,[9] found small intervals overestimated and long ones underestimated, the
indifference point being placed at about 3.0 by Vierordt, 0.7 by Kollert and Estel and 0.8
by Glass. Mehner[10] found underestimation from 0.7 to 5.0 and overestimation above 5.0. Schumann[11]
found in one set of experiments overestimation from 0.64 to 2.75 and from 3.5 to 5.0, and underestimation
from 2.75 to 3.5. Stevens[12] found underestimation of small intervals and overestimation of
longer ones, placing the indifference point between 0.53 and 0.87.

   [4] Mach, E.: 'Untersuchungen über den Zeitsinn des Ohres,'
   Sitzungsber. d. Wiener Akad., Math.-Nat. Kl., Bd. 51, Abth.
   2.

   [5] Höring: 'Versuche über das Unterscheidungsvermögen des
   Hörsinnes für Zeitgrössen,' Tübingen, 1864.

   [6] Vierordt: op. cit.

   [7] Kollert, J.: 'Untersuchungen über den Zeitsinn,' Phil.
   Studien, I., S. 79.

   [8] Estel, V.: 'Neue Versuche über den Zeitsinn,' Phil.
   Studien, II., S. 39.

   [9] Glass R.: 'Kritisches und Experimentelles über den
   Zeitsinn,' Phil. Studien, IV., S. 423.

   [10] Mehner, Max: 'Zum Lehre vom Zeitsinn,' Phil. Studien,
   II., S. 546.

   [11] Schumann, F.: 'Ueber die Schätzung kleiner Zeitgrössen,'
   Zeitsch. f. Psych., IV., S. 48.

   [12] Stevens, L.T.: 'On the Time Sense,' Mind, XI., p. 393.

The overestimation, however, is of no great significance, for data will be introduced a little
later which show definitely that the underestimation or overestimation of a given standard
is determined, among other factors, by the intensity of the stimulation employed. The apparently
anomalous results obtained in the early investigations are in part probably explicable on this
basis.

As regards the results of practice, the data obtained from the two subjects on whom the greatest
number of tests was made (Hs and Sh) is sufficiently explicit. The errors for each successive
group of 25 series for these two subjects are given in Table III.

TABLE III.

       ST = 5.0 SECONDS.

              SUBJECT Hs.             SUBJECT Sh.     2.5  2.5  1.5  2.5       0.     .5  0.    .5
    4.5    6.0  3.0  3.5  7.0       5.0   3.5  2.0   .5
    5.    14.0 11.0 11.0 11.0       8.5  11.5  4.0  7.0
    5.5   11.5 11.5  6.0 12.5      11.0  16.0 14.0 15.0
    6.    12.0  9.0  6.5  6.0       3.5   2.0  1.5  1.0
    6.5    4.0  3.5  4.0  3.5       4.0    .5  0.   0.

No influence arising from practice is discoverable from this table, and we may safely conclude
that this hypothetical factor may be disregarded, although among the experimenters on auditory
time Mehner[13] thought results gotten without a maximum of practice are worthless, while Meumann[14]
thinks that unpracticed and hence unsophisticated subjects are most apt to give unbiased results,
as with more experience they tend to fall into ruts and exaggerate their mistakes. The only
stipulation we feel it necessary to make in this connection is that the subject be given enough
preliminary tests to make him thoroughly familiar with the conditions of the experiment.

   [13] op. cit., S. 558, S. 595.

   [14] op. cit. (II.), S. 284.

2. The second group of experiments introduced the factor of a difference between the stimulation
marking the end of an interval and that marking the beginning, in the form of a change in locality
stimulated, from one finger to the other, either on the same hand or on the other hand. Two
classes of series were given, in one of which the change was introduced in the standard interval,
and in the other class in the compared interval.

In the first of these experiments, which are typical of the whole group, both of the subject's
hands were employed, and a tapping instrument was arranged above the middle finger of each,
as above the one hand in the preceding experiment, the distance between middle fingers being
fifteen inches. The taps were given either two on the right hand and the third on the left,
or one on the right and the second and third on the left, the two orders being designated as
RRL and RLL respectively. The subject was always informed of the order in which the stimulations
were to be given, so that any element of surprise which might arise from it was eliminated.
Occasionally, however, through a lapse of memory, the subject expected the wrong order, in
which case the disturbance caused by surprise was usually so great as to prevent any estimation.

The two types of series were taken under as similar conditions as possible, four (or in some
cases five) tests being taken from each series alternately. Other conditions were the same
as in the preceding work. The results for the six subjects employed are given in Table IV.

TABLE IV.

         ST= 5.0 SECS. TWO HANDS. 15 INCHES.

    Subject.         Average RT.               No. of Series.
                   RRL.       RLL.*    (Table II.)
    Hs.     4.92       6.55       (5.26)        50
    Sh.     5.29       5.28       (5.34)        50
    Mr.     5.02       6.23       (5.25)        60
    Mn.     5.71       6.71       (6.19)        24
     A.     5.34       5.89       (5.75)        28
    Sn.     5.62       6.43       (5.47)        60

From Table IV. it is apparent at a glance that the new condition involved introduces a marked
change in the time judgment. Comparison with Table II. shows that in the cases of all except
Sh and Sn the variation RRL shortens the standard subjectively, and that RLL lengthens it;
that is, a local change tends to lengthen the interval in which it occurs. In the case of Sh
neither introduces any change of consequence, while in the case of Sn both values are higher
than we might expect, although the difference between them is in conformity with the rest of
the results shown in the table.

Another set of experiments was made on subject Mr, using taps on the middle finger of the left
hand and a spot on the forearm fifteen inches from it; giving in one case two taps on the finger
and the third on the arm, and in the other one tap on the finger and the second and third on
the arm; designating the orders as FFA and FAA respectively. Sixty series were taken, and the
values found for the average ET were 4.52 secs, for FFA and 6.24 secs, for FAA, ST being 5.0
secs. This shows 0.5 sec. more difference than the experiment with two hands.

Next, experiments were made on two subjects, with conditions the same as in the work corresponding
to Table IV., except that the distance between the fingers stimulated was only five inches.
The results of this work are given in Table V.

TABLE V.

       ST= 5.0 SECS. TWO HANDS. 5 INCHES.

    Subject  RRL.      RLL.    No. of Series.
    Sh.    5.32      5.32         60
    Hs.    4.40      6.80         60

It will be noticed that Hs shows a slightly wider divergence than before, while Sh pursues
the even tenor of his way as usual.

Series were next obtained by employing the first and second fingers on one hand in exactly
the same way as the middle fingers of the two hands were previously employed, the orders of
stimulation being 1, 1, 2, and 1, 2, 2. The results of sixty series on Subject Hs give the
values of average ET as 4.8 secs. for 1, 1, 2, and 6.23 sees, for 1, 2, 2, ST being 5.0 secs.,
showing less divergence than in the preceding work.

These experiments were all made during the first year's work. They show that in most cases
a change in the locality stimulated influences the estimation of the time interval, but since
the details of that influence do not appear so definitely as might be desired, the ground was
gone over again in a little different way at the beginning of the present year.

A somewhat more serviceable instrument for time measurements was employed, consisting of a
disc provided with four rows of sockets in which pegs were inserted at appropriate angular
intervals, so that their contact with fixed levers during the revolution of the disc closed
an electric circuit at predetermined time intervals. The disc was rotated at a uniform speed
by an electric motor.

Experiments were made by stimulation of the following localities: (1) First and third fingers
of right hand; (2) first and second fingers of right hand; (3) first fingers of both hands,
close together, but just escaping contact; (4) first fingers of both hands, fifteen inches
apart; (5) first fingers of both hands, thirty inches apart; (6) two positions on middle finger
of right hand, on same transverse line.

A standard of two seconds was adopted as being easier for the subject and more expeditious,
and since qualitative and not quantitative results were desired, only one CT was used in each
case, thus permitting the investigation to cover in a number of weeks ground which would otherwise
have required a much longer period. The subjects were, however, only informed that the objective
variations were very small, and not that they were in most cases zero. Tests of the two types
complementary to each other (e.g., RRL and RRL) were in each case taken alternately in groups
of five, as in previous work.

TABLE VI.

  ST= 2.0 SECS.

  Subject W.

     (1) CT=2.0           (3) CT=2.2           (5) CT=2.0
      113  133           RRL     RLL          RRL       RLL
    S   3    3             9      20            5        21
    E  18   19            25      16           18        14
    L  24   28            16      14           17        15

  Subject P.

     (1) CT=2.0          (3)CT={1.6            (5) CT={1.6
                               {2.4                   {2.4
      113  133         RRL(1.6)  RLL(2.4)    RRL(1.6)  RLL(2.4)
    S   2   16           12       16           15        10
    E  38   32           32       21           26        19
    L  10    2            6       15           14        21

  Subject B.

     (1) CT=2.0          (2) CT=2.0           (6) CT=2.0
      113  133          112      122          aab        abb
    S   4   21            5       20            7         6
    E  23   19           22       24           40        38
    L  23   10           23        6            3         6

  Subject Hy.

     (1) CT=2.0          (2) CT=2.4          (1a) CT=2.0
      113  133          112       122         113       133
    S  12   46           17        40          17        31
    E   9    2           14         8           9         7
    L  29    2           19         2          14         2

    In the series designated as (1a) the conditions were the same
    as in (1), except that the subject abstracted as much as
    possible from the tactual nature of the stimulations and the
    position of the fingers. This was undertaken upon the
    suggestion of the subject that it would be possible to perform
    the abstraction, and was not repeated on any other subject.

The results are given in Table VI., where the numerals in the headings indicate the localities
and changes of stimulation, in accordance with the preceding scheme, and 'S', 'E' and 'L' designate
the number of judgments of shorter, equal and longer respectively.

It will be observed that in several cases a CT was introduced in one class which was different
from the CT used in the other classes with the same subject. This was not entirely arbitrary.
It was found with subject W, for example, that the use of CT = 2.0 in (3) produced judgments
of shorter almost entirely in both types. Therefore a CT was found, by trial, which produced
a diversity of judgments. The comparison of the different classes is not so obvious under these
conditions as it otherwise would be, but is still possible.

The comparison gives results which at first appear quite irregular. These are shown in Table
VII. below, where the headings (1)--(3), etc., indicate the classes compared, and in the lines
beneath them '+' indicates that the interval under consideration is estimated as relatively
greater (more overestimated or less underestimated) in the second of the two classes than in
the first,--indicating the opposite effect. Results for the first interval are given in the
line denoted 'first,' and for the second interval in the line denoted 'second.' Thus, the plus
sign under (1)--(3) in the first line for subject P indicates that the variation RLL caused
the first interval to be overestimated to a greater extent than did the variation 133.

TABLE VII.

        SUBJECT P.       SUBJECT W.      SUBJECT B.  SUBJECT Hy.
     (1)--(3) (3)--(4)  (1)--(3) (3)--(5)  (2)--(1) (6)--(2)  (2)--(1)
First.   +        -         +        -         -        +         -
Sec.     +        +         -        +         +        +         +

The comparisons of (6) and (2), and (1) and (3) confirm the provisional deduction from Table
IV., that the introduction of a local change in an interval lengthens it subjectively, but
the comparisons of (3) and (5), (3) and (4), and (2) and (1) show apparently that while the
amount of the local change influences the lengthening of the interval, it does not vary directly
with this latter in all cases, but inversely in the first interval and directly in the second.
This is in itself sufficient to demonstrate that the chief factors of the influence of locality-change
upon the time interval are connected with the spatial localization of the areas stimulated,
but a further consideration strengthens the conclusion and disposes of the apparent anomaly.
It will be noticed that in general the decrease in the comparative length of the first interval
produced by increasing the spatial change is less than the increase in the comparative length
of the second interval produced by a corresponding change. In other words, the disparity between
the results for the two types of test is greater, the greater the spatial distance introduced.

The results seem to point to the existence of two distinct factors in the so-called 'constant
error' in these cases: first, what we may call the bare constant error, or simply the constant
error, which appears when the conditions of stimulation are objectively the same as regards
both intervals, and which we must suppose to be present in all other cases; and second, the
particular lengthening effect which a change in locality produces upon the interval in which
it occurs. These two factors may work in conjunction or in opposition, according to conditions.
The bare constant error does not remain exactly the same at all times for any individual and
is probably less regular in tactual time than in auditory or in optical time, according to
the irregularity actually found and for reasons which will be assigned later.

3. The third group of experiments introduced the factor of variation in intensity of stimulation.
By the introduction of a loop in the circuit, containing a rheostat, two strengths of current
and consequently of stimulus intensity were obtained, either of which could be employed as
desired. One intensity, designated as W, was just strong enough to be perceived distinctly.
The other intensity, designated as S, was somewhat stronger than the intensity used in the
preceding work.

In the first instance, sixty series were taken from Subject B, with the conditions the same
as in the experiments of Group 1, except that two types of series were taken; the first two
stimulations being strong and the third one weak in the first type (SSW), and the order being
reversed in the second type (WSS). The results gave values of ET of 5.27 secs. for SSW and
5.9 secs. for WSS.

In order to get comprehensive qualitative results as rapidly as possible, a three-second standard
was adopted in the succeeding work and only one compared interval, also three seconds, was
given, although the subject was ignorant of that fact--the method being thus similar to that
adopted later for the final experiments of Group 2, described above. Six types of tests were
given, the order of stimulation in the different types being SSS, WWW, SSW, WWS, SWW and WSS,
the subject always knowing which order to expect. For each of the six types one hundred tests
were made on one subject and one hundred and five on another, in sets of five tests of each
type, the sets being taken in varied order, so that possible contrast effect should be avoided.
The results were practically the same, however, in whatever order the sets were taken, no contrast
effect being discernible.

The total number of judgments of CT, longer, equal, and shorter, is given in Table VIII. The
experiments on each subject consumed a number of experiment hours, scattered through several
weeks, but the relative proportions of judgments on different days was in both cases similar
to the total proportions.

TABLE VIII.

    ST=CT= 3.0 SECS.

          Subject R, 100.             Subject P, 105.
          L    E    S     d             L    E    S     d
    SSS   32   56   12   + 20     SSS   16   67   22   -  9
    WWW   11   53   36   - 25     WWW   19   72   14   +  5
    SSW    6   27   67   - 61     SSW   17   56   32   - 15
    WWS   57   36    7   + 50     WWS   37   61    7   + 30
    WSS   10   45   45   - 35     WSS    9   69   27   - 18
    SWW    3   31   66   - 63     SWW    3   64   33   - 25

By the above table the absolute intensity of the stimulus is clearly shown to be an important
factor in determining the constant error of judgment, since in both cases the change from SSS
to WWW changed the sign of the constant error, although in opposite directions. But the effect
of the relative intensity is more obscure. To discover more readily whether the introduction
of a stronger or weaker stimulation promises a definite effect upon the estimation of the interval
which precedes or follows it, the results are so arranged in Table IX. that reading downward
in any pair shows the effect of a decrease in the intensity of (1) the first, (2) the second,
(3) the third, and (4) all three stimulations.

TABLE IX.

                  Subject R.        Subject P.

    (1) SSS     + 20                -  6
        WSS     - 35  - 55          - 18    - 12

        SWW     - 63                - 25
        WWW     - 25  - 38          +  5    + 30

    (2) SSW     - 61                - 15
        SWW     - 63  -  2          - 25    + 10

        WSS     - 35                - 18
        WWS     + 50  + 85          + 30    - 48

    (3) SSS     + 20                -  6
        SSW     - 61  - 81          - 15    -  7

        WWS     + 50                + 30
        WWW     - 25  - 75          +  5    - 25

    (4) SSS     + 20                -  6
        WWW     - 15  - 35          +  5    + 11

There seems at first sight to be no uniformity about these results. Decreasing the first stimulation
in the first case increases, in the second case diminishes, the comparative length of the first
interval. We get a similar result in the decreasing of the second stimulation. In the case
of the third stimulation only does the decrease produce a uniform result. If, however, we neglect
the first pair of (3), we observe that in the other cases the effect of a difference between
the two stimulations is to lengthen the interval which they limit. The fact that both subjects
make the same exception is, however, striking and suggestive of doubt. These results were obtained
in the first year's work, and to test their validity the experiment was repeated at the beginning
of the present year on three subjects, fifty series being taken from each, with the results
given in Table X.

TABLE X.

ST = 3.0 secs. = CT.

         Subject Mm.          Subject A.          Subject D.

         S   E   L     d        S   E   L     d       S   E   L     d
  SSS   24  13  13  - 11        7  30  13  +  6      10  31   9  -  1
  WSS   33   9   8  - 25       20  24   6  - 14      17  27   6  - 11
  SSW   19  15  16  -  3       23  16  11  - 12      10  31   9* -  1
  WWW   19  12  19     0       13  26  11  -  2       1  40   9  +  8
  SWW   18  30   2  - 16       23  21   6* - 17       7  38   5  -  2
  WWS   13  16  21  +  8       12  30   8  -  4      15  25  10  -  5

Analysis of this table shows that in every case a difference between the intensities of the
first and second taps lengthens the first interval in comparative estimation. In the case of
subject Mm a difference in the intensities of the second and third taps lengthens the second
interval subjectively. But in the cases of the other two subjects the difference shortens the
interval in varying degrees.

The intensity difference established for the purposes of these experiments was not great, being
less than that established for the work on the first two subjects, and therefore the fact that
these results are less decided than those of the first work was not unexpected. The results
are, however, very clear, and show that the lengthening effect of a difference in intensity
of the stimulations limiting an interval has its general application only to the first interval,
being sometimes reversed in the second. From the combined results we find, further, that a
uniform change in the intensity of three stimulations is capable of reversing the direction
of the constant error, an intensity change in a given direction changing the error from positive
to negative for some subjects, and from negative to positive for others.

III. INTERPRETATION OF RESULTS.

We may say provisionally that the change from a tactual stimulation of one kind to a tactual
stimulation of another kind tends to lengthen subjectively the interval which the two limit.
If we apply the same generalization to the other sensorial realms, we discover that it agrees
with the general results obtained by Meumann[15] in investigating the effects of intensity
changes upon auditory time, and also with the results obtained by Schumann[16] in investigations
with stimulations addressed alternately to one ear and to the other. Meumann reports also that
the change from stimulation of one sense to stimulation of another subjectively lengthens the
corresponding interval.

   [15] op. cit. (II.), S. 289-297.

   [16] op. cit., S. 67.

What, then, are the factors, introduced by the change, which produce this lengthening effect?
The results of introspection on the part of some of the subjects of our experiments furnish
the clue which may enable us to construct a working hypothesis.

Many of the subjects visualize a time line in the form of a curve. In each case of this kind
the introduction of a change, either in intensity or location, if large enough to produce an
effect on the time estimation, produced a distortion on the part of the curve corresponding
to the interval affected. All of the subjects employed in the experiments of Group 2 were distinctly
conscious of the change in attention from one point to another, as the two were stimulated
successively, and three of them, Hy, Hs and P, thought of something passing from one point
to the other, the representation being described as partly muscular and partly visual. Subjects
Mr and B visualized the two hands, and consciously transferred the attention from one part
of the visual image to the other. Subject Mr had a constant tendency to make eye movements
in the direction of the change. Subject P detected these eye movements a few times, but subject
B was never conscious of anything of the kind.

All of the subjects except R were conscious of more or less of a strain, which varied during
the intervals, and was by some felt to be largely a tension of the chest and other muscles,
while others felt it rather indefinitely as a 'strain of attention.' The characteristics of
this tension feeling were almost always different in the second interval from those in the
first, the tension being usually felt to be more constant in the second interval. In experiments
of the third group a higher degree of tension was felt in awaiting a light tap than in awaiting
a heavy one.

Evidently, in all these cases, the effect of a difference between two stimulations was to introduce
certain changes in sensation during the interval which they limited, owing to the fact that
the subject expected the difference to occur. Thus in the third group of experiments there
were, very likely, in all cases changes from sensations of high tension to sensations of lower,
or vice versa. It is probable that, in the experiments of the second group, there were also
changes in muscular sensations, partly those of eye muscles, partly of chest and arm muscles,
introduced by the change of attention from one point to another. At any rate, it is certain
that there were certain sensation changes produced during the intervals by changes of locality.

If, then, we assume that the introduction of additional sensation change into an interval lengthens
it, we are led to the conclusion that psychological time (as distinguished from metaphysical,
mathematical, or transcendental time) is perceived simply as the quantum of change in the sensation
content. That this is a true conclusion is seemingly supported by the fact that when we wish
to make our estimate correspond as closely as possible with external measurements, we exclude
from the content, to the best of our ability, the general complex of external sensations, which
vary with extreme irregularity; and confine the attention to the more uniformly varying bodily
sensations. We perhaps go even further, and inhibit certain bodily sensations, corresponding
to activity of the more peripherally located muscles, that the attention may be confined to
certain others. But attention to a dermal stimulation is precisely the condition which would
tend to some extent to prevent this inhibition. For this reason we might well expect to find
the error in estimation more variable, the 'constant error' in general greater, and the specific
effects of variations which would affect the peripheral muscles, more marked in 'tactual' time
than in either 'auditory' or 'optical' time. Certainly all these factors appear surprisingly
large in these experiments.

It is not possible to ascertain to how great an extent subject Sh inhibited the more external
sensations, but certainly if he succeeded to an unusual degree in so doing, that fact would
explain the absence of effect of stimulation difference in his case.

Explanation has still to be offered for the variable effect of intensity difference upon the
second interval. According to all subjects except Sn, there is a radical difference in attitude
in the two intervals. In the first interval the subject is merely observant, but in the second
he is more or less reproductive. That is, he measures off a length which seems equal to the
standard, and if the stimulation does not come at that point he is prepared to judge the interval
as 'longer,' even before the third stimulation is given. In cases, then, where the judgment
with equal intensities would be 'longer,' we might expect that the actual strengthening or
weakening of the final tap would make no difference, and that it would make very little difference
in other cases. But even here the expectation of the intensity is an important factor in determining
tension changes, although naturally much less so than in the first interval. So we should still
expect the lengthening of the second interval.

We must remember, however, that, as we noticed in discussing the experiments of Group 2, there
is complicated with the lengthening effect of a change the bare constant error, which appears
even when the three stimulations are similar in all respects except temporal location. Compare
WWW with SSS, and we find that with all five subjects the constant error is decidedly changed,
being even reversed in direction with three of the subjects.

Now, what determines the direction of the constant error, where there is no pause between the
intervals? Three subjects reported that at times there seemed to be a slight loss of time after
the second stimulation, owing to the readjustment called for by the change of attitude referred
to above, so that the second interval was begun, not really at the second stimulation, but
a certain period after it. This fact, if we assume it to be such, and also assume that it is
present to a certain degree in all observations of this kind, explains the apparent overestimation
of the first interval. Opposed to the factor of loss of time there is the factor of perspective,
by which an interval, or part of an interval, seems less in quantity as it recedes into the
past. The joint effect of these two factors determines the constant error in any case where
no pause is introduced between ST and CT. It is then perfectly obvious that, as the perspective
factor is decreased by diminishing the intervals compared, the constant error must receive
positive increments, i.e., become algebraically greater; which corresponds exactly with the
results obtained by Vierordt, Kollert, Estel, and Glass, that under ordinary conditions long
standard intervals are comparatively underestimated, and short ones overestimated.

On the other hand, if with a given interval we vary the loss of time, we also vary the constant
error. We have seen that a change in the intensity of the stimulations, although the relative
intensity of the three remains constant, produces this variation of the constant error; and
the individual differences of subjects with regard to sensibility, power of attention and inhibition,
and preferences for certain intensities, lead us to the conclusion that for certain subjects
certain intensities of stimulation make the transition from the receptive attitude to the reproductive
easiest, and, therefore, most rapid.

Now finally, as regards the apparent failure of the change in SSW to lengthen the second interval,
for which we are seeking to account; the comparatively great loss of time occurring where the
change of attitude would naturally be most difficult (that is, where it is complicated with
a change of attention from a strong stimulation to the higher key of a weak stimulation) is
sufficient to explain why with most subjects the lengthening effect upon the second interval
is more than neutralized. The individual differences mentioned in the preceding paragraph as
affecting the relation of the two factors determining the constant error, enter here of course
to modify the judgments and cause disagreement among the results for different subjects.

Briefly stated, the most important points upon which this discussion hinges are thus the following:
We have shown--

    1. That the introduction of either a local difference or a
    difference of intensity in the tactual stimulations limiting
    an interval has, in general, the effect of causing the
    interval to appear longer than it otherwise would appear.

    2. That the apparent exceptions to the above rule are, (a)
    that the increase of the local difference in the first
    interval, the stimulated areas remaining unchanged, produces a
    slight decrease in the subjective lengthening of the
    interval, and (b) that in certain cases a difference in
    intensity of the stimulations limiting the second interval
    apparently causes the interval to seem shorter than it
    otherwise would.

    3. That the 'constant error' of time judgment is dependent
    upon the intensity of the stimulations employed, although the
    three stimulations limiting the two intervals remain of equal
    intensity.

To harmonize these results we have found it necessary to assume:

    1. That the length of a time interval is perceived as the
    amount of change in the sensation-complex corresponding to
    that interval.

    2. That the so-called 'constant error' of time estimation is
    determined by two mutually opposing factors, of which the
    first is the loss of time occasioned by the change of
    attitude at the division between the two intervals, and the
    second is the diminishing effect of perspective.

    It is evident, however, that this last assumption applies only
    to the conditions under which the results were obtained,
    namely, the comparison of two intervals marked off by three
    brief stimulations.

       *       *       *       *       *

PERCEPTION OF NUMBER THROUGH TOUCH.

BY J. FRANKLIN MESSENGER.

The investigation which I am now reporting began as a study of the fusion of touch sensations
when more than two contacts were possible. As the work proceeded new questions came up and
the inquiry broadened so much that it seemed more appropriate to call it a study in the perception
of number.

The experiments are intended to have reference chiefly to three questions: the space-threshold,
fusion of touch sensations, and the perception of number. I shall deny the validity of a threshold,
and deny that there is fusion, and then offer a theory which attempts to explain the phenomena
connected with the determination of a threshold and the problem of fusion and diffusion of
touch sensations.

The first apparatus used for the research was made as follows: Two uprights were fastened to
a table. These supported a cross-bar about ten inches from the table. To this bar was fastened
a row of steel springs which could be pressed down in the manner of piano keys. To each of
these springs was fastened a thread which held a bullet. The bullets, which were wrapped in
silk to obviate temperature sensations, were thus suspended just above the fingers, two over
each finger. Each thread passed through a small ring which was held just a little above the
fingers. These rings could be moved in any direction to accommodate the bullet to the position
of the finger. Any number of the bullets could be let down at once. The main object at first
was to learn something about the fusion of sensations when more than two contacts were given.

Special attention was given to the relation of the errors made when the fingers were near together
to those made when the fingers were spread. For this purpose a series of experiments was made
with the fingers close together, and then the series was repeated with the fingers spread as
far as possible without the subject's feeling any strain. Each subject was experimented on
one hour a week for about three months. The same kind of stimulation was given when the fingers
were near together as was given when they were spread. The figures given below represent the
average percentage of errors for four subjects.

Of the total number of answers given by all subjects when the fingers were close together,
70 per cent. were wrong. An answer was called wrong whenever the subject failed to judge the
number correctly. In making out the figures I did not take into account the nature of the errors.
Whether involving too many or too few the answer was called wrong. Counting up the number of
wrong answers when the fingers were spread, I found that 28 per cent. of the total number of
answers were wrong. This means simply that when the fingers were near together there were more
than twice as many errors as there were when they were spread, in spite of the fact that each
finger was stimulated in the same way in each case.

A similar experiment was tried using the two middle fingers only. In this case not more than
four contacts could be made at once, and hence we should expect a smaller number of errors,
but we should expect still to find more of them when the fingers are near together than when
they are spread. I found that 49 per cent. of the answers were wrong when the fingers were
near together and 20 per cent. were wrong when they were spread. It happens that this ratio
is approximately the same as the former one, but I do not regard this fact as very significant.
I state only that it is easier to judge in one case than in the other; how much easier may
depend on various factors.

To carry the point still further I took only two bullets, one over the second phalanx of each
middle finger. When the fingers were spread the two were never felt as one. When the fingers
were together they were often felt as one.

The next step was to investigate the effect of bringing together the fingers of opposite hands.
I asked the subject to clasp his hands in such a way that the second phalanges would be about
even. I could not use the same apparatus conveniently with the hands in this position, but
in order to have the contacts as similar as possible to those I had been using, I took four
of the same kind of bullets and fastened them to the ends of two æsthesiometers. This enabled
me to give four contacts at once. However, only two were necessary to show that contacts on
fingers of opposite hands could be made to 'fuse' by putting the fingers together. If two contacts
are given on contiguous fingers, they are quite as likely to be perceived as one when the fingers
are fingers of opposite hands, as when they are contiguous fingers of the same hand.

These results seem to show that one of the important elements of fusion is the actual space
relations of the points stimulated. The reports of the subjects also showed that generally
and perhaps always they located the points in space and then remembered what finger occupied
that place. It was not uncommon for a subject to report a contact on each of two adjacent fingers
and one in between where he had no finger. A moment's reflection would usually tell him it
must be an illusion, but the sensation of this illusory finger was as definite as that of any
of his real fingers. In such cases the subject seemed to perceive the relation of the points
to each other, but failed to connect them with the right fingers. For instance, if contacts
were made on the first, second and third fingers, the first might be located on the first finger,
the third on the second finger, and then the second would be located in between.

So far my attention had been given almost entirely to fusion, but the tendency on the part
of all subjects to report more contacts than were actually given was so noticeable that I concluded
that diffusion was nearly as common as fusion and about as easy to produce. It also seemed
that the element of weight might play some part, but just what effect it had I was uncertain.
I felt, too, that knowledge of the apparatus gained through sight was giving the subjects too
much help. The subjects saw the apparatus every day and knew partly what to expect, even though
the eyes were closed when the contacts were made. A more efficient apparatus seemed necessary,
and, therefore, before taking up the work again in 1900, I made a new apparatus.

Not wishing the subjects to know anything about the nature of the machine or what could be
done with it, I enclosed it in a box with an opening in one end large enough to allow the subject's
hand to pass through, and a door in the other end through which I could operate. On the inside
were movable wooden levers, adjustable to hands of different width. These were fastened by
pivotal connection at the proximal end. At the outer end of each of these was an upright strip
with a slot, through which was passed another strip which extended back over the hand. This
latter strip could be raised or lowered by means of adjusting screws in the upright strip.
On the horizontal strip were pieces of wood made so as to slide back and forth. Through holes
in these pieces plungers were passed. At the bottom of each plunger was a small square piece
of wood held and adjusted by screws. From this piece was suspended a small thimble filled with
shot and paraffine. The thimbles were all equally weighted. Through a hole in the plunger ran
a thread holding a piece of lead of exactly the weight of the thimble. By touching a pin at
the top this weight could be dropped into the thimble, thus doubling its weight. A screw at
the top of the piece through which the plunger passed regulated the stop of the plunger. This
apparatus had three important advantages. It was entirely out of sight, it admitted of rapid
and accurate adjustment, and it allowed the weights to be doubled quickly and without conspicuous
effort.

For the purpose of studying the influence of weight on the judgments of number I began a series
of experiments to train the subjects to judge one, two, three, or four contacts at once. For
this the bare metal thimbles were used, because it was found that when they were covered with
chamois skin the touch was so soft that the subjects could not perceive more than one or two
with any degree of accuracy, and I thought it would take entirely too long to train them to
perceive four. The metal thimbles, of course, gave some temperature sensation, but the subject
needed the help and it seemed best to use the more distinct metal contacts.

In this work I had seven subjects, all of whom had had some experience in a laboratory, most
of them several years. Each one took part one hour a week. The work was intended merely for
training, but a few records were taken each day to see how the subjects progressed. The object
was to train them to perceive one, two, three, and four correctly, and not only to distinguish
four from three but to distinguish four from more than four. Hence five, six, seven, and eight
at a time were often given. When the subject had learned to do this fairly well the plan was
to give him one, two, three, and four in order, then to double the weight of the four and give
them again to see if he would interpret the additional weight as increase in number. This was
done and the results were entirely negative. The subjects either noticed no difference at all
or else merely noticed that the second four were a little more distinct than the first.

The next step was to give a number of light contacts to be compared with the same number of
heavy ones--the subject, not trying to tell the exact number but only which group contained
the greater number. A difference was sometimes noticed, and the subject, thinking that the
only variations possible were variations of number and position, often interpreted the difference
as difference in number; but the light weights were as often called more as were the heavy ones.

So far as the primary object of this part of the experiment is concerned the results are negative,
but incidentally the process of training brought out some facts of a more positive nature.
It was early noticed that some groups of four were much more readily recognized than others,
and that some of them were either judged correctly or underestimated while others were either
judged correctly or overestimated. For convenience the fingers were indicated by the letters
A B C D, A being the index finger. The thumb was not used. Two weights were over each finger.
The one near the base was called 1, the one toward the end 2. Thus A12 B1 C2 means two contacts
on the index finger, one near the base of the second finger, and one near the end of the third
finger. The possible arrangements of four may be divided into three types: (1) Two weights
on each of two fingers, as A12 B12, C12 D12, etc., (2) four in a line across the fingers, A1
B1 C1 D1 or A2 B2 C2 D2, (3) unsymmetrical arrangements, as A1 B2 C1 D2, etc. Arrangements
of the first type were practically never overestimated. B12 C12 was overestimated once and
B12 D12 was overestimated once, but these two isolated cases need hardly be taken into account.
Arrangements of the second type were but rarely overestimated--A2 B2 C2 D2 practically never,
A1 B1 C1 D1 a few times. Once the latter was called eight. Apparently the subject perceived
the line across the hand and thought there were two weights on each finger instead of one.
Arrangements of the third type were practically never underestimated, but were overestimated
in 68 per cent. of the cases.

These facts in themselves are suggestive, but equally so was the behavior of the subject while
making the answers. It would have hardly done to ask the person if certain combinations were
hard to judge, for the question would serve as a suggestion to him; but it was easy to tell
when a combination was difficult without asking questions. When a symmetrical arrangement was
given, the subject was usually composed and answered without much hesitation. When an unsymmetrical
arrangement was given he often hesitated and knit his brows or perhaps used an exclamation
of perplexity before answering, and after giving his answer he often fidgeted in his chair,
drew a long breath, or in some way indicated that he had put forth more effort than usual.
It might be expected that the same attitude would be taken when six or eight contacts were
made at once, but in these cases the subject was likely either to fail to recognize that a
large number was given or, if he did, he seemed to feel that it was too large for him to perceive
at all and would guess at it as well as he could. But when only four were given, in a zigzag
arrangement, he seemed to feel that he ought to be able to judge the number but to find it
hard to do so, and knowing from experience that the larger the number the harder it is to judge
he seemed to reason conversely that the more effort it takes to judge the more points there
are, and hence he would overestimate the number.

The comments of the subjects are of especial value. One subject (Mr. Dunlap) reports that he
easily loses the sense of location of his fingers, and the spaces in between them seem to belong
to him as much as do his fingers themselves. When given one touch at a time and told to raise
the finger touched he can do so readily, but he says he does not know which finger it is until
he moves it. He feels as if he willed to move the place touched without reference to the finger
occupying it. He sometimes hesitates in telling which finger it is, and sometimes he finds
out when he moves a finger that it is not the one he thought it was.

Another subject (Dr. MacDougall) says that his fingers seem to him like a continuous surface,
the same as the back of his hand. He usually named the outside points first. When asked about
the order in which he named them, he said he named the most distinct ones first. Once he reported
that he felt six things, but that two of them were in the same places as two others, and hence
he concluded there were but four. This feeling in a less careful observer might lead to overestimation
of number and be called diffusion, but all cases of overestimation cannot be explained that
way, for it does not explain why certain combinations are so much more likely to lead to it
than others.

In one subject (Mr. Swift) there was a marked tendency to locate points on the same fingers.
He made many mistakes about fingers B and C even when he reported the number correctly. When
B and D were touched at the same time he would often call it C and D, and when C and D were
given immediately afterward he seemed to notice no difference. With various combinations he
would report C when B was given, although C had not been touched at the same time. If B and
C were touched at the same time he could perceive them well enough.

The next part of the research was an attempt to discover whether a person can perceive any
difference between one point and two points which feel like one. A simple little experiment
was tried with the æsthesiometer. The subjects did not know what was being used, and were asked
to compare the relative size of two objects placed on the back of the hand in succession. One
of these objects was one knob of the æsthesiometer and the other was two knobs near enough
together to lie within the threshold. The distance of the points was varied from 10 to 15 mm.
Part of the time the one was given first and part of the time both were given together. The
one, whether given first or second, was always given about midway between the points touched
by the two. If the subject is not told to look for some specific difference he will not notice
any difference between the two knobs and the one, and he will say they are alike; but if he
is told to give particular attention to the size there seems to be a slight tendency to perceive
a difference. The subjects seem to feel very uncertain about their answers, and it looks very
much like guess-work, but something caused the guesses to go more in one direction than in
the other.

  Two were called less than one .... 16% of the times given.
   "    "     "      equal to   .... 48%    "         "
   "    "     "    greater than .... 36%    "         "

Approximately half of the time two were called equal to one, and if there had been no difference
in the sensations half of the remaining judgments should have been that two was smaller than
one, but two were called larger than one more than twice as many times as one was called larger
than two. There was such uniformity in the reports of the different subjects that no one varied
much from this average ratio.

This experiment seems to indicate a very slight power of discrimination of stimulations within
the threshold. In striking contrast to this is the power to perceive variations of distance
between two points outside the threshold. To test this the æsthesiometer was spread enough
to bring the points outside the threshold. The back of the hand was then stimulated with the
two points and then the distance varied slightly, the hand touched and the subject asked to
tell which time the points were farther apart. A difference of 2 mm. was usually noticed, and
one of from 3 to 5 mm. was noticed always very clearly.

I wondered then what would be the result if small cards set parallel to each other were used
in place of the knobs of the æsthesiometer. I made an æsthesiometer with cards 4 mm. long in
place of knobs. These cards could be set at any angle to each other. I set them at first 10
mm. apart and parallel to each other and asked the subjects to compare the contact made by
them with a contact by one card of the same size. The point touched by the one card was always
between the points touched by the two cards, and the one card was put down so that its edge
would run in the same direction as the edges of the other cards. The result of this was that:

  Two were called less,  14 per cent.
   "    "     "   equal, 36   "   "
   "    "     " greater, 50   "   "

I then increased the distance of the two cards to 15 mm., the other conditions remaining the
same, and found that:

  Two were called less,  11 per cent.
   "    "     "   equal, 50   "   "
   "    "     " greater, 39   "   "

It will be noticed that the ratio in this last series is not materially different from the
ratio found when the two knobs of the æsthesiometer were compared with one knob. The ratio
found when the distance was 10 mm., however, is somewhat different. At that distance two were
called greater half of the time, while at 15 mm. two were called equal to one half of the time.
The explanation of the difference, I think, is found in the comments of one of my subjects.
I did not ask them to tell in what way one object was larger than the other--whether longer
or larger all around or what--but simply to answer 'equal,' 'greater,' or 'less.' One subject,
however, frequently added more to his answers. He would often say 'larger crosswise' or 'larger
lengthwise' of his hand. And a good deal of the time he reported two larger than one, not in
the direction in which it really was larger, but the other way. It seems to me that when the
two cards were only 10 mm. apart the effect was somewhat as it would be if a solid object 4
mm. wide and 10 mm. long had been placed on the hand. Such an object would be recognized as
having greater mass than a line 4 mm. long. But when the distance is 15 mm. the impression
is less like that of a solid body but still not ordinarily like two objects.

In connection with the subject of diffusion the Vexirfehler is of interest. An attempt was
made to develop the Vexirfehler with the æsthesiometer. Various methods were tried, but the
following was most successful. I would tell the subject that I was going to use the æsthesiometer
and ask him to close his eyes and answer simply 'one' or 'two.' He would naturally expect that
he would be given part of the time one, and part of the time two. I carefully avoided any suggestion
other than that which could be given by the æsthesiometer itself. I would begin on the back
of the hand near the wrist with the points as near the threshold as they could be and still
be felt as two. At each successive putting down of the instrument I would bring the points
a little nearer together and a little lower down on the hand. By the time a dozen or more stimulations
had been given I would be working down near the knuckles, and the points would be right together.
From that on I would use only one point. It might be necessary to repeat this a few times before
the illusion would persist. A great deal seems to depend on the skill of the operator. It would
be noticed that the first impression was of two points, and that each stimulation was so nearly
like the one immediately preceding that no difference could be noticed. The subject has been
led to call a thing two which ordinarily he would call one, and apparently he loses the distinction
between the sensation of one and the sensation of two. After going through the procedure just
mentioned I put one knob of the æsthesiometer down one hundred times in succession, and one
subject (Mr. Meakin) called it two seventy-seven times and called it one twenty-three times.
Four of the times that he called it one he expressed doubt about his answer and said it might
be two, but as he was not certain he called it one. Another subject (Mr. George) called it
two sixty-two times and one thirty-eight times. A third subject (Dr. Hylan) called it two seventy-seven
times and one twenty-three times. At the end of the series he was told what had been done and
he said that most of his sensations of two were perfectly distinct and he believed that he
was more likely to call what seemed somewhat like two one, than to call what seemed somewhat
like one two. With the fourth subject (Mr. Dunlap) I was unable to do what I had done with
the others. I could get him to call one two for four or five times, but the idea of two would
not persist through a series of any length. He would call it two when two points very close
together were used. I could bring the knobs within two or three millimeters of each other and
he would report two, but when only one point was used he would find out after a very few stimulations
were given that it was only one. After I had given up the attempt I told him what I had been
trying to do and he gave what seems to me a very satisfactory explanation of his own case.
He says the early sensations keep coming up in his mind, and when he feels like calling a sensation
two he remembers how the first sensation felt and sees that this one is not like that, and
hence he calls it one. I pass now to a brief discussion of what these experiments suggest.

It has long been known that two points near together on the skin are often perceived as one.
It has been held that in order to be felt as two they must be far enough apart to have a spatial
character, and hence the distance necessary for two points to be perceived has been called
the 'space-threshold.' This threshold is usually determined either by the method of minimal
changes or by the method of right and wrong cases.

If, in determining a threshold by the method of minimal changes--on the back of the hand, for
example, we assume that we can begin the ascending series and find that two are perceived as
one always until the distance of twenty millimeters is reached, and that in the descending
series two are perceived as two until the distance of ten millimeters is reached, we might
then say that the threshold is somewhere between ten and twenty millimeters. But if the results
were always the same and always as simple as this, still we could not say that there is any
probability in regard to the answer which would be received if two contacts 12, 15, or 18 millimeters
apart were given by themselves. All we should know is that if they form part of an ascending
series the answer will be 'one,' if part of a descending series 'two.'

The method of right and wrong cases is also subject to serious objections. There is no lower
limit, for no matter how close together two points are they are often called two. If there
is any upper limit at all, it is so great that it is entirely useless. It might be argued that
by this method a distance could be found at which a given percentage of answers would be correct.
This is quite true, but of what value is it? It enables one to obtain what one arbitrarily
calls a threshold, but it can go no further than that. When the experiment changes the conditions
change. The space may remain the same, but it is only one of the elements which assist in forming
the judgment, and its importance is very much overestimated when it is made the basis for determining
the threshold.

Different observers have found that subjects sometimes describe a sensation as 'more than one,
but less than two.' I had a subject who habitually described this feeling as 'one and a half.'
This does not mean that he has one and a half sensations. That is obviously impossible. It
must mean that the sensation seems just as much like two as it does like one, and he therefore
describes it as half way between. If we could discover any law governing this feeling of half-way-between-ness,
that might well indicate the threshold. But such feelings are not common. Sensations which
seem between one and two usually call forth the answer 'doubtful,' and have a negative rather
than a positive character. This negative character cannot be due to the stimulus; it must be
due to the fluctuating attitudes of the subject. However, if the doubtful cases could be classed
with the 'more than one but less than two' cases and a law be found governing them, we might
have a threshold mark. But such a law has not been formulated, and if it had been an analysis
of the 'doubtful' cases would invalidate it. For, since we cannot have half of a sensation
or half of a place as we might have half of an area, the subject regards each stimulation as
produced by one or by two points as the case may be. Occasionally he is stimulated in such
a way that he can regard the object as two or as one with equal ease. In order to describe
this feeling he is likely to use one or the other of the methods just mentioned.

We might say that when the sum of conditions is such that the subject perceives two points,
the points are above the threshold, and when the subject perceives one point when two are given
they are below the threshold. This might answer the purpose very well if it were not for the
Vexirfehler. According to this definition, when the Vexirfehler appears we should have to say
that one point is above the threshold for twoness, which is a queer contradiction, to say the
least. It follows that all of the elaborate and painstaking experiments to determine a threshold
are useless. That is, the threshold determinations do not lead us beyond the determinations
themselves.

In order to explain the fact that a person sometimes fails to distinguish between one point
and two points near together, it has been suggested that the sensations fuse. This, I suppose,
means either that the peripheral processes coalesce and go to the center as a single neural
process, or that the process produced by each stimulus goes separately to the brain and there
the two set up a single activity. Somewhat definite 'sensory circles,' even, were once believed in.

If the only fact we had to explain was that two points are often thought to be one when they
are near together, 'fusion' might be a good hypothesis, but we have other facts to consider.
If this one is explained by fusion, then the mistaking of one point for two must be due to
diffusion of sensations. Even that might be admissible if the Vexirfehler were the only phenomenon
of this class which we met. But it is also true that several contacts are often judged to be
more than they actually are, and that hypothesis will not explain why certain arrangements
of the stimulating objects are more likely to bring about that result than others. Still more
conclusive evidence against fusion, it seems to me, is found in the fact that two points, one
on each hand, may be perceived as one when the hands are brought together. Another argument
against fusion is the fact that two points pressed lightly may be perceived as one, and when
the pressure is increased they are perceived as two. Strong pressures should fuse better than
weak ones, and therefore fusion would imply the opposite results. Brückner[1] has found that
two sensations, each too weak to be perceived by itself, may be perceived when the two are
given simultaneously and sufficiently near together. This reënforcement of sensations he attributes
to fusion. But we have a similar phenomenon in vision when a group of small dots is perceived,
though each dot by itself is imperceptible. No one, I think, would say this is due to fusion.
It does not seem to me that we need to regard reënforcement as an indication of fusion.

   [1] Brückner, A.: 'Die Raumschwelle bei Simultanreizung,'
   Zeitschrift für Psychologie, 1901, Bd. 26, S. 33.

My contention is that the effects sometimes attributed to fusion and diffusion of sensations
are not two different kinds of phenomena, but are identical in character and are to be explained
in the same way.

Turning now to the explanation of the special experiments, we may begin with the Vexirfehler.[2]
It seems to me that the Vexirfehler is a very simple phenomenon. When a person is stimulated
with two objects near together he attends first to one and then to the other and calls it two;
then when he is stimulated with one object he attends to it, and expecting another one near
by he hunts for it and hits upon the same one he felt before but fails to remember that it
is the same one, and hence thinks it is another and says he has felt two objects. Observers
agree that the expectation of two tends to bring out the Vexirfehler. This is quite natural.
A person who expects two and receives one immediately looks about for the other without waiting
to fixate the first, and therefore when he finds it again he is less likely to recognize it
and more likely to think it another point and to call it two. Some observers[3] have found
that the apparent distance of the two points when the Vexirfehler appears never much exceeds
the threshold distance. Furthermore, there being no distinct line of demarcation between one
and two, there must be many sensations which are just about as much like one as they are like
two, and hence they must be lumped off with one or the other group. To the mathematician one
and two are far apart in the series because he has fractions in between, but we perceive only
in terms of whole numbers; hence all sensations which might more accurately be represented
by fractions must be classed with the nearest whole number. A sensation is due to a combination
of factors. In case of the Vexirfehler one of these factors, viz., the stimulating object,
is such as to suggest one, but some of the other conditions--expectation, preceding sensation,
perhaps blood pressure, etc.--suggest two, so that the sensation as a whole suggests one-plus,
if we may describe it that way, and hence the inference that the sensation was produced by
two objects.

   [2] Tawney, Guy A.: 'Ueber die Wahrnehmung zweier Punkte
   mittelst des Tastsinnes mit Rücksicht auf die Frage der Uebung
   und die Entstehung der Vexirfehler,' Philos. Stud., 1897, Bd.
   XIII., S. 163.

   [3] See Nichols: 'Number and Space,' p. 161. Henri, V., and
   Tawney, G.: Philos. Stud., Bd. XI., S. 400.

This, it seems to me, may account for the appearance of the Vexirfehler, but why should not
the subject discover his error by studying the sensation more carefully? He cannot attend to
two things at once, nor can he attend to one thing continuously, even for a few seconds. What
we may call continuous attention is only a succession of attentive impulses. If he could attend
to the one object continuously and at the same time hunt for the other, I see no reason why
he should not discover that there is only one. But if he can have only one sensation at a time,
then all he can do is to associate that particular sensation with some idea. In the case before
us he associates it with the idea of the number two. He cannot conceive of two objects unless
he conceives them as located in two different places. Sometimes a person does find that the
two objects of his perception are both in the same place, and when he does so he concludes
at once that there is but one object. At other times he cannot locate them so accurately, and
he has no way of finding out the difference, and since he has associated the sensation with
the idea of two he still continues to call it two. If he is asked to locate the points on paper
he fills out the figure just as he fills out the blind-spot, and he can draw them in just the
same way that he can draw lines which he thinks he sees with the blind-spot, but which really
he only infers.

Any sensation, whether produced by one or by many objects, is one, but there may be a difference
in the quality of a sensation produced by one object and that of a sensation produced by more
than one object. If this difference is clear and distinct, the person assigns to each sensation
the number he has associated with it. He gives it the name two when it has the quality he has
associated with that idea. But the qualities of a sensation from which the number of objects
producing it is inferred are not always clear and distinct. The quality of the sensation must
not be confused with any quality of the object. If we had to depend entirely on the sense of
touch and always remained passive and received sensations only when we were touched by something,
there is no reason why we should not associate the idea of one with the sensation produced
by two objects and the idea of two with that produced by one object--assuming that we could
have any idea of number under such circumstances. The quality of a sensation from which number
is inferred depends on several factors. The number itself is determined by the attitude of
the subject, but the attitude is determined largely by association. A number of facts show
this. When a person is being experimented on, it is very easy to confuse him and make him forget
how two feel and how one feels. I have often had a subject tell me that he had forgotten and
ask me to give him two distinctly that he might see how it felt. In other words, he had forgotten
how to associate his ideas and sensations. In developing the Vexirfehler I found it much better,
after sufficient training had been given, not to give two at all, for it only helped the subject
to perceive the difference between two and one by contrast. But when one was given continually
he had no such means of contrast, and having associated the idea of two with a sensation he
continued to do so. The one subject with whom I did not succeed in developing the Vexirfehler
to any great extent perceived the difference by comparing the sensation with one he had had
some time before. I could get him, for a few times, to answer two when only one was given,
but he would soon discover the difference, and he said he did it by comparing it with a sensation
which he had had some time before and which he knew was two. By this means he was able to make
correct associations when otherwise he would not have done so. It has been discovered that
when a subject is being touched part of the time with two and part of the time with one, and
the time it takes him to make his judgments is being recorded, he will recognize two more quickly
than he will one if there is a larger number of twos in the series than there is of ones. I
do not see how this could be if the sensation of two is any more complex than that of one.
But if both sensations are units and all the subject needs to do is to associate the sensation
with an idea, then we should expect that the association he had made most frequently would
be made the most quickly.

If the feeling of twoness or of oneness is anything but an inference, why is it that a person
can perceive two objects on two fingers which are some distance apart, but perceives the same
two objects as one when the fingers are brought near together and touched in the same way?
It is difficult to see how bringing the fingers together could make a sensation any less complex,
but it would naturally lead a person to infer one object, because of his previous associations.
He has learned to call that one which seems to occupy one place. If two contacts are made in
succession he will perceive them as two because they are separated for him by the time interval
and he can perceive that they occupy different places.

When two exactly similar contacts are given and are perceived as one, we cannot be sure whether
the subject feels only one of the contacts and does not feel the other at all, or feels both
contacts and thinks they are in the same place, which is only another way of saying he feels
both as one. It is true that when asked to locate the point he often locates it between the
two points actually touched, but even this he might do if he felt but one of the points. To
test the matter of errors of localization I have made a few experiments in the Columbia University
laboratory. In order to be sure that the subject felt both contacts I took two brass rods about
four inches long, sharpened one end and rounded off the other. The subject sat with the palm
of his right hand on the back of his left and his fingers interlaced. I stimulated the back
of his fingers on the second phalanges with the sharp end of one rod and the blunt end of the
other and asked him to tell whether the sharp point was to the right or to the left of the
other. I will not give the results in detail here, but only wish to mention a few things for
the purpose of illustrating the point in question. Many of the answers were wrong. Frequently
the subject would say both were on the same finger, when really they were on fingers of opposite
hands, which, however, in this position were adjacent fingers. Sometimes when this happened
I would ask him which finger they were on, and after he had answered I would leave the point
on the finger on which he said both points were and move the other point over to the same finger,
then move it back to its original position, then again over to the finger on which the other
point was resting, and so on, several times. The subject would tell me that I was raising one
point and putting it down again in the same place all of the time. Often a subject would tell
me he felt both points on the same finger, but that he could not tell to which hand the finger
belonged. When two or more fingers intervened between the fingers touched no subject ever had
any difficulty in telling which was the sharp and which the blunt point, but when adjacent
fingers were touched it was very common for the subject to say he could not tell which was
which. This cannot be because there is more difference in the quality of the contacts in one
case than in the other. If they were on the same finger it might be said that they were stimulating
the same general area, but since one is on one hand and one on the other this is impossible.
The subject does not think the two points are in the same place, because he feels two qualities
and hence he infers two things, and he knows two things cannot be in the same place at the
same time. If the two contacts were of the same quality probably they would be perceived as
one on account of the absence of difference, for the absence of difference is precisely the
quality of oneness.

These facts, together with those mentioned before, seem to me to indicate that errors of localization
are largely responsible for judgments which seem to be due to fusion or diffusion of sensations.
But they are responsible only in this way, they prevent the correction of the first impression.
I do not mean that a person never changes his judgment after having once made it, but a change
of judgment is not necessarily a correction. Often it is just the contrary. But where a wrong
judgment is made and cannot be corrected inability to localize is a prominent factor. This,
however, is only a secondary factor in the perception of number. The cardinal point seems to
me the following:

Any touch sensation, no matter by how many objects it is produced, is one, and number is an
inference based on a temporal series of sensations. It may be that we can learn by association
to infer number immediately from the quality of a sensation, but that means only that we recognize
the sensation as one we have had before and have found it convenient to separate into parts
and regard one part after the other, and we remember into how many parts we separated it. This
separating into parts is a time process. What we shall regard as one is a mere matter of convenience.
Continuity sometimes affords a convenient basis for unity and sometimes it does not. There
is no standard of oneness in the objective world. We separate things as far as convenience
or time permits and then stop and call that one which our own attitude has determined shall be one.

That we do associate a sensation with whatever idea we have previously connected it with, even
though that idea be that of the number of objects producing it, is clearly shown by some experiments
which I performed in the laboratory of Columbia University. I took three little round pieces
of wood and set them in the form of a triangle. I asked the subject to pass his right hand
through a screen and told him I wanted to train him to perceive one, two, three and four contacts
at a time on the back of his hand, and that I would tell him always how many I gave him until
he learned to do it. When it came to three I gave him two points near the knuckles and one
toward the wrist and told him that was three. Then I turned the instrument around and gave
him one point near the knuckles and two toward the wrist and told him that was four. As soon
as he was sure he distinguished all of the points I stopped telling him and asked him to answer
the number. I had four subjects, and each one learned very soon to recognize the four contacts
when three were given in the manner mentioned above. I then repeated the same thing on the
left hand, except that I did not tell him anything, but merely asked him to answer the number
of contacts he felt. In every case the idea of four was so firmly associated with that particular
kind of a sensation that it was still called four when given on the hand which had not been
trained. I gave each subject a diagram of his hand and asked him to indicate the position of
the points when three were given and when four were given. This was done without difficulty.
Two subjects said they perceived the four contacts more distinctly than the three, and two
said they perceived the three more distinctly than the four.

It seems very evident that the sensation produced by three contacts is no more complex when
interpreted as four than when interpreted as three. If that is true, then it must also be evident
that the sensation produced by one contact is no more complex when interpreted as two than
when interpreted as one. The converse should also be true, that the sensation produced by two
contacts is no less complex when interpreted as one than when interpreted as two. Difference
in number does not indicate difference in complexity. The sensation of four is not made up
of four sensations of one. It is a unit as much as the sensation of one is.

There remains but one point to be elaborated. If number is not a quality of objects, but is
merely a matter of attitude of the subject, we should not expect to find a very clear-cut line
of demarcation between the different numbers except with regard to those things which we constantly
consider in terms of number. Some of our associations are so firmly established and so uniform
that we are likely to regard them as necessary. It is not so with our associations of number
and touch sensations. We have there only a vague, general notion of what the sensation of one
or two is, because usually it does not make much difference to us, yet some sensations are
so well established in our minds that we call them one, two or four as the case may be without
hesitation. Other sensations are not so, and it is difficult to tell to which class they belong.
Just so it is easy to tell a pure yellow color from a pure orange, yet they shade into each
other, so that it is impossible to tell where one leaves off and the other begins. If we could
speak of a one-two sensation as we speak of a yellow-orange color we might be better able to
describe our sensations. It would, indeed, be convenient if we could call a sensation which
seems like one with a suggestion of two about it a two-one sensation, and one that seems nearly
like two but yet suggests one a one-two sensation. Since we cannot do this, we must do the
best we can and describe a sensation in terms of the number it most strongly suggests. Subjects
very often, as has been mentioned before, describe a sensation as 'more than one but less than
two,' but when pressed for an answer will say whichever number it most resembles. A person
would do the same thing if he were shown spectral colors from orange to yellow and told to
name each one either orange or yellow. At one end he would be sure to say orange and at the
other yellow, but in the middle of the series his answers would likely depend upon the order
in which the colors were shown, just as in determining the threshold for the perception of
two points by the method of minimal changes the answers in the ascending series are not the
same as those in the descending series. The experiments have shown that the sensation produced
by two points, even when they are called one, is not the same as that produced by only one
point, but the difference is not great enough to suggest a different number.

If the difference between one and two were determined by the distance, then the substitution
of lines for knobs of the æsthesiometer ought to make no difference. And if the sensations
produced by two objects fuse when near together, then the sensations produced by lines ought
to fuse as easily as those produced by knobs.

In regard to the higher numbers difficulties will arise unless we take the same point of view
and say that number is an inference from a sensation which is in itself a unit. It has been
shown that four points across the ends of the fingers will be called four or less, and that
four points, one on the end of each alternate finger and one at the base of each of the others,
will be called four or more--usually more. In either case each contact is on a separate finger,
and it is hardly reasonable to suppose there is no diffusion when they are in a straight row,
but that when they are in irregular shape there is diffusion. It is more probable that the
subject regards the sensation produced by the irregular arrangement as a novelty, and tries
to separate it into parts. He finds both proximal and distal ends of his fingers concerned.
He may discover that the area covered extends from his index to his little finger. He naturally
infers, judging from past experience, that it would take a good many points to do that, and
hence he overestimates the number. When a novel arrangement was given, such as moving some
of the weights back on the wrist and scattering others over the fingers, very little idea of
number could be gotten, yet they were certainly far enough apart to be felt one by one if a
person could ever feel them that way, and the number was not so great as to be entirely unrecognizable.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SUBJECTIVE HORIZON.

BY ROBERT MACDOUGALL.

I.

The general nature of the factors which enter into the orientation of the main axes of our
bodies, under normal and abnormal conditions, has been of much interest to the psychologist
in connection with the problem of the development of space and movement perception. The special
points of attack in this general investigation have comprised, firstly, the separation of resident,
or organic, from transient, or objective, factors; secondly, the determination of the special
organic factors which enter into the mechanism of judgment and their several values; and thirdly,
within this latter field, the resolution of the problem of a special mechanism of spatial orientation,
the organ of the static sense.

The special problem with which we are here concerned relates to the group of factors upon which
depends one's judgment that any specified object within the visual field lies within the horizontal
plane of the eyes, or above or below that plane, and the several functions and values of these
components. The method of procedure has been suggested by the results of preceding investigations
in this general field.

The first aim of the experiments was to separate the factors of resident and transient sensation,
and to determine the part played by the presence of a diversified visual field. To do so it
was necessary to ascertain, for each member of the experimental group, the location of the
subjective visual horizon, and the range of uncertainty in the observer's location of points
within that plane. Twelve observers in all took part in the investigation. In the first set
of experiments no attempt was made to change the ordinary surroundings of the observer, except
in a single point, namely, the provision that there should be no extended object within range
of the subject's vision having horizontal lines on a level with his eyes.

The arrangements for experimentation were as follows: A black wooden screen, six inches wide
and seven feet high, was mounted between two vertical standards at right angles to the axis
of vision of the observer. Vertically along the center of this screen and over pulleys at its
top and bottom passed a silk cord carrying a disc of white cardboard, 1 cm. in diameter, which
rested against the black surface of the screen. From the double pulley at the bottom of the
frame the two ends of the cord passed outward to the observer, who, by pulling one or the other,
could adjust the disc to any desired position. On the opposite side of the screen from the
observer was mounted a vertical scale graduated in millimeters, over which passed a light index-point
attached to the silk cord, by means of which the position of the cardboard disc in front was
read off. The observer was seated in an adjustable chair with chin and head rests, and a lateral
sighting-tube by which the position of the eyeball could be vertically and horizontally aligned.
The distance from the center of the eyeball to the surface of the screen opposite was so arranged
that, neglecting the radial deflection, a displacement of 1 mm. in either direction was equal
to a departure of one minute of arc from the plane of the eyes' horizon.

The observer sat with the light at his back, and by manipulation of the cords adjusted the
position of the white disc freely up and down the screen until its center was judged to be
on a level with the eye. Its position was then read off the vertical scale by the conductor
(who sat hidden by an interposed screen), and the error of judgment was recorded in degrees
and fractions as a positive (upward) or negative (downward) displacement. The disc was then
displaced alternately upward and downward, and the judgment repeated. From the time of signalling
that the point had been located until this displacement the observer sat with closed eyes.
These determinations were made in series of ten, and the individual averages are in general
based upon five such series, which included regularly the results of sittings on different
days. In some cases twice this number of judgments were taken, and on a few occasions less.
The number of judgments is attached to each series of figures in the tables. In that which
follows the individual values and their general averages are given as minutes of arc for (a)
the constant error or position of the subjective horizon, (b) the average deviation from the
objective horizon, and (c) the mean variation of the series of judgments.

TABLE I.

  Observer.      Constant Error.   Average Deviation.  Mean Variation.
      A  (100)         -19.74         38.78             10.67
      C   (90)         -18.18         23.89             10.82
      D  (100)         -19.84         33.98              7.95
      E   (50)         - 4.28         72.84              6.90
      F  (100)         +46.29         46.29              2.05
      G   (50)         +14.96         35.40              8.40
      H   (50)         -27.22         27.46              5.78
      I   (50)         + 6.62         53.34              7.45
      K   (50)         + 1.08         30.26              6.59
      L   (20)         -56.70         56.70             10.39

  Average:                -7.70         41.89              7.69

The average subjective horizon shows a negative displacement, the exceptional minority being
large. No special facts could be connected with this characteristic, either in method of judgment
or in the past habits of the reactor. The average constant error is less than an eighth of
a degree, and in neither direction does the extreme reach the magnitude of a single degree
of arc. Since the mean variation is likewise relatively small, there is indicated in one's
ordinary judgments of this kind a highly refined sense of bodily orientation in space.

II.

In order to separate the resident organic factors from those presented by the fixed relations
of the external world, an adaptation of the mechanism was made for the purpose of carrying
on the observations in a darkened room. For the cardboard disc was substituted a light carriage,
riding upon rigid parallel vertical wires and bearing a miniature ground-glass bulb enclosing
an incandescent electric light of 0.5 c.p. This was encased in a chamber with blackened surfaces,
having at its center an aperture one centimeter in diameter, which was covered with white tissue
paper. The subdued illumination of this disc presented as nearly as possible the appearance
of that used in the preceding series of experiments. No other object than this spot of moving
light was visible to the observer. Adjustment and record were made as before. The results for
the same set of observers as in the preceding case are given in the following table:

TABLE II.

  Subject.       Constant Error.  Average Deviation.  Mean Variation.
      A   (50)    - 52.76          55.16               30.08
      C   (30)    -  7.40          42.00               35.31
      D   (50)    - 14.24          38.60               30.98
      E   (50)    - 43.12          86.44               30.19
      F  (100)    -  2.01          72.33               20.27
      G  (100)    - 21.89          47.47               32.83
      H   (50)    -  1.62          59.10               29.95
      I   (50)    - 32.76          41.60               24.40
      K   (50)    - 61.70         100.02               52.44
      L   (40)    -128.70         128.90               27.83

   Average:         - 36.62          67.16               31.43

Changes in two directions may be looked for in the results as the experimental conditions are
thus varied. The first is a decrease in the certainty of judgment due to the simple elimination
of certain factors upon which the judgment depends. The second is the appearance of definite
types of error due to the withdrawal of certain correctives of organic tendencies which distort
the judgment in specific directions. The loss in accuracy is great; the mean variation increases
from 7.69 to 31.43, or more than 400 per cent. This large increase must not, however, be understood
as indicating a simple reduction in the observer's capacity to locate points in the horizontal
plane of the eyes. The two series are not directly comparable; for in the case of the lighted
room, since the whole visual background remained unchanged, each determination must be conceived
to influence the succeeding judgment, which becomes really a correction of the preceding. To
make the two series strictly parallel the scenery should have been completely changed after
each act of judgment. Nevertheless, a very large increase of uncertainty may fairly be granted
in passing from a field of visual objects to a single illuminated point in an otherwise dark
field. It is probable that this change is largely due to the elimination of those elements
of sensation depending upon the relation of the sagittal axis to the plane against which the
object is viewed.

The change presented by the constant error can here be interpreted only speculatively. I believe
it is a frequently noted fact that the lights in a distant house or other familiar illuminated
object on land, and especially the signal lights on a vessel at sea appear higher than their
respective positions by day, to the degree at times of creating the illusion that they hang
suspended above the earth or water. This falls in with the experimental results set forth in
the preceding table. It cannot be attributed to an uncomplicated tendency of the eyes of a
person seated in such a position to seek a lower direction than the objective horizon, when
freed from the corrective restraint of a visual field, as will be seen when the results of
judgments made in complete darkness are cited, in which case the direction of displacement
is reversed. The single illuminated spot which appears in the surrounding region of darkness,
and upon which the eye of the observer is directed as he makes his judgment, in the former
case restricts unconscious wanderings of the eye, and sets up a process of continuous and effortful
fixation which accompanies each act of determination. I attribute the depression of the eyes
to this process of binocular adjustment. The experience of strain in the act of fixation increases
and decreases with the distance of the object regarded. In a condition of rest the axes of
vision of the eyes tend to become parallel; and from this point onward the intensity of the
effort accompanying the process of fixation increases until, when the object has passed the
near-point of vision, binocular adjustment is no longer possible. In the general distribution
of objects in the visual field the nearer, for the human being, is characteristically the lower,
the more distant the higher, as one looks in succession from the things at his feet to the
horizon and vice versa. We should, therefore, expect to find, when the eyes are free to move
in independence of a determinate visual field, that increased convergence is accompanied by
a depression of the line of sight, decreased convergence by an elevation of it. Here such freedom
was permitted, and though the fixed distance of the point of regard eliminated all large fluctuations
in convergence, yet all the secondary characteristics of intense convergence were present.
Those concerned in the experiment report that the whole process of visual adjustment had increased
in difficulty, and that the sense of effort was distinctly greater. To this sharp rise in the
general sense of strain, in coöperation with the absence of a corrective field of objects,
I attribute the large negative displacement of the subjective horizon in this series of experiments.

III.

In the next set of experiments the room was made completely dark. The method of experimentation
was adapted to these new conditions by substituting for the wooden screen one of black-surfaced
cardboard, which was perforated at vertical distances of five millimeters by narrow horizontal
slits and circular holes alternately, making a scale which was distinctly readable at the distance
of the observer. Opposite the end of one of these slits an additional hole was punched, constituting
a fixed point from which distances were reckoned on the scale. As the whole screen was movable
vertically and the observer knew that displacements were made from time to time, the succession
of judgments afforded no objective criterion of the range of variation in the series of determinations,
nor of the relation of any individual reaction to the preceding. The method of experimentation
was as follows: The observer sat as before facing the screen, the direction of which was given
at the beginning of each series by a momentary illumination of the scale. In the darkness which
followed the observer brought the direction of sight, with open eyes, as satisfactorily as
might be into the plane of the horizontal, when, upon a simple signal, the perforated scale
was instantly and noiselessly illuminated by the pressure of an electrical button, and the
location of the point of regard was read off the vertical scale by the observer himself, in
terms of its distance from the fixed point of origin described above. The individual and general
averages for this set of experiments are given in the following table:

TABLE III.

  Observer.       Constant Error.  Average Deviation.  Mean Variation.
      A   (50)        +  7.75         20.07             19.45
      C     "         + 14.41         25.05              2.94
      D     "         + 14.42         34.54             29.16
      E     "         +108.97        108.97             23.13
      F     "         -  5.12         23.00              2.02
      G     "         + 20.72         34.80             10.23
      H     "         + 35.07         53.60             33.95
      I     "         + 25.52         30.68             22.49
      K     "         -  8.50         40.65             21.07

  Average:              + 23.69         41.26             17.16

The point at which the eyes rest when seeking the plane of the horizon in total darkness is
above its actual position, the positive displacement involved being of relatively large amount.

In addition to the removal of the whole diversified visual field there has now been eliminated
the final point of regard toward which, in the preceding set of experiments, the sight was
strained; and the factor of refined visual adjustment ceases longer to play a part in the phenomenon.
The result of this release is manifested in a tendency of the eyes to turn unconsciously upward.
This is their natural position when closed in sleep. But this upward roll is not an uncomplicated
movement. There takes place at the same time a relaxation of binocular convergence, which in
sleep may be replaced by a slight divergence. This tendency of the axes of vision to diverge
as the eyes are raised is undoubtedly connected biologically with the distribution of distances
in the higher and lower parts of the field of vision, of which mention has already been made.
Its persistence is taken advantage of in the artificial device of assisting the process of
stereoscopic vision without instruments by holding the figures to be viewed slightly above
the primary position, so that the eyes must be raised in order to look at them and their convergence
thereby decreased. It is by the concomitance of these two variables that the phenomena of both
this and the preceding series of experiments are to be explained. In the present case the elimination
of a fixed point of regard is followed by a release of the mechanism of convergence, with a
consequent approximation to parallelism in the axes of vision and its concomitant elevation
of the line of sight.

The second fact to be noted is the reduction in amount of the mean variation. The series of
values under the three sets of experimental conditions hitherto described is as follows: I.
7'.69; II. 31'.42; III. 17'.16. This increase of regularity I take to be due, as in the case
of the lighted room, to the presence of a factor of constancy which is not strictly an element
in the judgment of horizontality. This is a system of sensory data, which in the former case
were transient--the vision of familiar objects; and in the latter resident--the recognition
of specific experiences of strain in the mechanism of the eye. The latter sensations exist
under all three sets of conditions, but they are of secondary importance in those cases which
include the presence of an objective point of regard, while in the case of judgments made in
total darkness the observer depends solely upon resident experiences. Attention is thus directed
specifically toward these immediate sensational elements of judgment, and there arises a tendency
to reproduce the preceding set of eye-strains, instead of determining the horizon plane afresh
at each act of judgment upon more general data of body position.

If the act of judgment be based chiefly upon sensory data connected with the reinstatement
of the preceding set of strains, progressions should appear in these series of judgments, provided
a constant factor of error be incorporated in the process. This deflection should be most marked
under conditions of complete darkness, least in the midst of full illumination. Such a progression
would be shown at once by the distribution of positive and negative values of the individual
judgments about the indifference point of constant error. As instances of its occurrence all
cases have been counted in which the first half of the series of ten judgments was uniformly
of one sign (four to six being counted as half) and the second half of the opposite sign. The
percentages of cases in which the series presented such a progression are as follows: In diffused
light, 7.6%; in darkness, point of regard illuminated, 18.3%; in complete darkness, 26.1%.
The element of constant error upon which such progressions depend is the tendency of the eye
to come to rest under determinate mechanical conditions of equilibrium of muscular strain.

The relation of the successive judgments of a series to the reinstatement of specific eye-strains
and to the presence of an error of constant tendency becomes clearer when the distribution
of those series which show progression is analyzed simultaneously with reference to conditions
of light and darkness and to binocular and monocular vision respectively. Their quantitative
relations are presented in the following table:

TABLE IV.

  Illumination.   Per Cent. Showing Progress.  Binocular.  Monocular.

  In light.                 7.6 %                 50 %        50 %
  In darkness.             18.3                   34.2        65.8

Among judgments made in daylight those series which present progression are equally distributed
between binocular and monocular vision. When, however, the determinations are of a luminous
point in an otherwise dark field, the preponderance in monocular vision of the tendency to
a progression becomes pronounced. That this is not a progressive rectification of the judgment,
is made evident by the distribution of the directions of change in the several experimental
conditions shown in the following table:

TABLE V.
                                Light.                 Darkness.
  Direction of Change.  Binocular.   Monocular.  Binocular.  Monocular.
  Upward.                  50 %         100 %      38.4 %      65.0 %
  Downward.                50            00.0      61.6        35.0
  Const. Err.              -7.70        +11.66    -36.62       -3.38

When the visual field is illuminated the occurrence of progression in binocular vision is accidental,
the percentages being equally distributed between upward and downward directions. In monocular
vision, on the contrary, the movement is uniformly upward and involves a progressive increase
in error. When the illuminated point is exposed in an otherwise dark field the progression
is preponderatingly downward in binocular vision and upward in vision with the single eye.
The relation of these changes to phenomena of convergence, and the tendency to upward rotation
in the eyeball has already been stated. There is indicated, then, in these figures the complication
of the process of relocating the ideal horizon by reference to the sense of general body position
with tendencies to reinstate simply the set of eye-muscle strains which accompanied the preceding
judgment, and the progressive distortion of the latter by a factor of constant error due to
the mechanical conditions of muscular equilibrium in the resting eye.

IV.

The influence of this factor is also exhibited when judgments made with both eyes are compared
with those made under conditions of monocular vision. The latter experiments were carried on
in alternate series with those already described. The figures are given in the following tables:

TABLE VI.

  JUDGMENTS MADE IN DIFFUSED LIGHT.

    Observer.  Constant Error.   Average Deviation.   Mean Variation.
    A (50)     - 28.46                29.04               8.87
    C  "       +  7.54                14.86               8.01
    D  "       + 39.32                43.28              13.83
    E  "       + 50.46                65.26               9.86
    F  "       + 62.30                62.30               1.60
    G  "          0.00                45.28               9.66
    H  "       + 22.92                79.12               5.07
    I  "       + 14.36                51.96               8.02
    K  "       +  9.26                38.10               9.55
    L  "       - 61.10                61.10               6.36
    Average:     + 11.66                49.03               8.18

TABLE VII.

  JUDGMENTS IN ILLUMINATED POINT.

    Observer.  Constant Error.    Average Deviation.   Mean Variation.
    A (50)     - 38.42                 51.96                32.64
    C (30)     - 29.03                 41.23                35.75
    D (20)     - 30.87                 34.07                17.24
    E (50)     + 65.30                 75.86                29.98
    F  "       + 50.74                 50.74                 5.89
    G  "       + 66.38                 88.10                44.98
    H  "       + 65.40                 80.76                42.93
    I  "       -  0.02                 80.22                47.53
    K  "       - 44.60                 52.56                32.93
    L  "       - 71.06                 73.30                31.86
    Average:     - 3.38                  62.88                32.17

The plane of vision in judgments made with the right eye alone is deflected upward from the
true horizon to a greater degree than it is depressed below it in those made with binocular
vision, the respective values of the constant errors being -7'.70 and +11'.66, a difference
of 19'.36. When the field of vision is darkened except for the single illuminated disc, a similar
reversion of sign takes place in the constant error. With binocular vision the plane of the
subjective horizon is deflected downward through 36'.62 of arc; with monocular vision it is
elevated 3'.38, a difference of 40'.00, or greater than in the case of judgments made in the
lighted room by 20'.64. This increase is to be expected in consequence of the elimination of
those corrective criteria which the figured visual field presents. The two eyes do not, of
course, function separately in such a case, and the difference in the two sets of results is
undoubtedly due to the influence of movements in the closed eye upon that which is open; or
rather, to the difference in binocular functioning caused by shutting off the visual field
from one eye. The former expression is justified in so far as we conceive that the tendency
of the closed eye to turn slightly upward in its socket affects also the direction of regard
in the open eye by attracting toward itself its plane of vision. But if, as has been pointed
out, this elevation of the line of sight in the closed eye is accompanied by a characteristic
change in the process of binocular convergence, the result cannot be interpreted as a simple
sympathetic response in the open eye to changes taking place in that which is closed, but is
the consequence of a release of convergence strain secondarily due to this act of closing the eye.

Several points of comparison between judgments made with binocular and with monocular vision
remain to be stated. In general, the process of location is more uncertain when one eye only
is used than when both are employed, but this loss in accuracy is very slight and in many cases
disappears. The loss in accuracy is perhaps also indicated by the range of variation in the
two cases, its limits being for binocular vision +46'.29 to -56'.70, and for monocular +62'.30
to -61'.10, an increase of 20'.41. In the darkened room similar relations are presented. The
mean variations are as follows: binocular vision, 31'.42; monocular, 32'.17. Its limits in
individual judgments are: binocular, -1'.62 to -128'.70, monocular, +66'.38 to -71'.06, an
increase of 10'.36. In all ways, then, the difference in accuracy between the two forms of
judgment is extremely small, and the conclusion may be drawn that those significant factors
of judgment which are independent of the figuration of the visual field are not connected with
the stereoscopic functioning of the two eyes, but such as are afforded by adjustment in the
single eye and its results.

VI.

The experimental conditions were next complicated by the introduction of abnormal positions
of the eyes, head and whole body. The results of tipping the chin sharply upward or downward
and keeping it so fixed during the process of location are given in the following table, which
is complete for only three observers:

TABLE VIII.

  Observer.             Upward Rotation.           Downward Rotation.
                     C.E.     A.D.     M.V.      C.E.     A.D.     M.V.
  L (50)         +43.98    43.98     5.62     +28.32   28.32    5.02
  K (50)         -33.72    33.72    71.33     +19.49   19.49   55.22
  L (20)         -39.10    45.90    33.60     -68.65   69.25   25.20
  Average:         - 9.61    41.20    36.85     -19.94   39.02   28.48
  Normal:          -64.14    67.08    33.51

The results of rotating the whole body backward through forty-five and ninety degrees are given
in the following table:

TABLE IX.

  Observer.              Rotation of 45°.           Rotation of 90°.
                     C.E.     A.D.     M.V.      C.E.     A.D.     M.V.
  B (30)        +  4.10    24.57    18.56
  D (30)        +291.03   291.03    61.86
  G (50)        +266.78   266.78    22.83    +200.16  200.16   11.00
  F (60)        +116.45   116.45    17.14    - 36.06   36.30    6.29
  J (20)        +174.30   174.63    30.94
  Average:        +170.53   174.69    30.66

The errors which appear in these tables are not consistently of the type presented in the well-known
rotation of visual planes subjectively determined under conditions of abnormal relations of
the head or body in space. When the head is rotated upward on its lateral horizontal axis the
average location of the subjective horizon, though still depressed below the true objective,
is higher than when rotation takes place in the opposite direction. When the whole body is
rotated backward through 45° a positive displacement of large amount takes place in the case
of all observers. When the rotation extends to 90°, the body now reclining horizontally but
with the head supported in a raised position to allow of free vision, an upward displacement
occurs in the case of one of the two observers, and in that of the other a displacement in
the opposite direction. When change of position takes place in the head only, the mean variation
is decidedly greater if the rotation be upward than if it be downward, its value in the former
case being above, in the latter below that of the normal. When the whole body is rotated backward
through 45° the mean variation is but slightly greater than under normal conditions; when the
rotation is through 90° it is much less. A part of this reduction is probably due to training.
In general, it may be said that the disturbance of the normal body relations affects the location
of the subjective horizon, but the specific nature and extent of this influence is left obscure
by these experiments. The ordinary movements of eyes and head are largely independent of one
another, and even when closed the movements of the eyes do not always symmetrically follow
those of the head. The variations in the two processes have been measured by Münsterberg and
Campbell[1] in reference to a single condition, namely, the relation of attention to and interest
in the objects observed to the direction of sight in the closed eyes after movement of the
head. But apart from the influence of such secondary elements of ideational origin, there is
reason to believe that the mere movement of the head from its normal position on the shoulders
up or down, to one side or the other, is accompanied by compensatory motion of the eyes in
an opposite direction, which tends to keep the axis of vision nearer to the primary position.
When the chin is elevated or depressed, this negative reflex adjustment is more pronounced
and constant than when the movement is from side to side. In the majority of cases the retrograde
movement of the eyes does not equal the head movement in extent, especially if the latter be
extreme.

   [1] Münsterberg, H., and Campbell, W.W.: PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
   I., 1894, p. 441.

The origin of such compensatory reactions is connected with the permanent relations of the
whole bodily organism to the important objects which surround it. The relations of the body
to the landscape are fairly fixed. The objects which it is important to watch lie in a belt
which is roughly on a horizontal plane with the observing eye. They move or are moved about
over the surface of the ground and do not undergo any large vertical displacement. It is of
high importance, therefore, that the eye should be capable of continuous observation of such
objects through facile response to the stimulus of their visual appearance and movements, in
independence of the orientation of the head. There are no such determinate spatial relations
between body position and the world of important visual objects in the case of those animals
which are immersed in a free medium; and in the organization of the fish and the bird, therefore,
one should not expect the development of such free sensory reflexes of the eye in independence
of head movements as we know to be characteristic of the higher land vertebrates. In both of
the former types the eye is fixed in its socket, movements of the whole head or body becoming
the mechanism of adjustment to new objects of observation. In the adjustment of the human eye
the reflex determination through sensory stimuli is so facile as to counteract all ordinary
movements of the head, the gaze remaining fixed upon the object through a series of minute
and rapidly repeated sensory reflexes. When the eyes are closed and no such visual stimuli
are presented, similar reflexes take place in response to the movements of the head, mediated
possibly by sensations connected with changes in position of the planes of the semicircular canals.

VII.

If eye-strain be a significant element in the process of determining the subjective horizon,
the induction of a new center of muscular equilibrium by training the eyes to become accustomed
to unusual positions should result in the appearance of characteristic errors of displacement.
In the case of two observers, A and H, the eyes were sharply raised or lowered for eight seconds
before giving judgment as to the position of the illuminated spot, which was exposed at the
moment when the eyes were brought back to the primary position. The effect of any such vertical
rotation is to stretch the antagonistic set of muscles. It follows that when the eye is rotated
in the contrary direction the condition of equilibrium appears sooner than in normal vision.
In the case of both observers the subjective horizon was located higher when judgment was made
after keeping the eyes raised, and lower when the line of sight had been depressed. In the
case of only one observer was a quantitative estimation of the error made, as follows: With
preliminary raising of the eyes the location was +36'.4; with preliminary lowering, -11'.4.

When the illuminated button is exposed in a darkened room and is fixated by the observer, it
undergoes a variety of changes in apparent position due to unconscious shifting of the point
of regard, the change in local relations of the retinal stimulation being erroneously attributed
to movements in the object. These movements were not of frequent enough occurrence to form
the basis of conclusions as to the position at which the eyes tended to come to a state of
rest. The number reported was forty-two, and the movement observed was rather a wandering than
an approximation toward a definite position of equilibrium. The spot very rarely presented
the appearance of sidewise floating, but this may have been the result of a preconception on
the part of the observer rather than an indication of a lessened liability to movements in
a horizontal plane. Objective movements in the latter direction the observer knew to be impossible,
while vertical displacements were expected. Any violent movement of the head or eyes dispelled
the impression of floating at once. The phenomenon appeared only when the illuminated spot
had been fixated for an appreciable period of time. Its occurrence appears to be due to a fatigue
process in consequence of which the mechanism becomes insensible to slight changes resulting
from releases among the tensions upon which constant fixation depends. When the insensitiveness
of fatigue is avoided by a slow continuous change in the position of the illuminated spot,
no such wandering of the eye from its original point of regard occurs, and the spot does not
float. The rate at which such objective movements may take place without awareness on the part
of the observer is surprisingly great. Here the fatigue due to sustained fixation is obviated
by the series of rapid and slight sensory reflexes which take place; these have the effect
of keeping unchanged the retinal relations of the image cast by the illuminated spot, and being
undiscriminated in the consciousness of the observer the position of the point of regard is
apprehended by him as stationary. The biological importance of such facile and unconscious
adjustment of the mechanism of vision to the moving object needs no emphasis; but the relation
of these obscure movements of the eyes to the process of determining the plane of the subjective
horizon should be pointed out. The sense of horizontality in the axes of vision is a transient
experience, inner conviction being at its highest in the first moments of perception and declining
so characteristically from this maximum that in almost every case the individual judgment long
dwelt upon is unsatisfactory to the observer. This change I conceive to be a secondary phenomenon
due to the appearance of the visual wanderings already described.

VIII.

The influence of sensory reflexes in the eye upon the process of visual orientation was next
taken up in connection with two specific types of stimulation. At top and bottom of the vertical
screen were arranged dark lanterns consisting of electric bulbs enclosed in blackened boxes,
the fronts of which were covered with a series of sheets of white tissue-paper, by which the
light was decentralized and reduced in intensity, and of blue glass, by which the yellow quality
of the light was neutralized. Either of these lanterns could be illuminated at will by the
pressure of a button. All other experimental conditions remained unchanged. The observers were
directed to pay no special regard to these lights, and the reports show that in almost every
case they had no conscious relation to the judgment. The results are presented in the following
table:

TABLE X.

                       Light Below.               Light Above.
  Observer.  Const.Err.  Av.Dev.  M.Var.  Const.Err.  Av.Dev.  M.Var.
  C (40)      +156.37  156.37    19.67   +169.85    169.85   19.22
  D (20)      + 39.30   43.30    17.95   + 46.65     47.35   15.41
  F (30)      + 19.47   19.47     8.83   + 58.37     58.37    7.83
  G (50)      + 66.11  112.76    14.65   +117.86    117.86   13.10
  H (30)      -147.63  147.63    21.07   -105.30    105.30   30.31
  J (20)      +  1.90   31.95    22.33   + 44.40     44.40   20.55
  Average:      + 22.59   85.28    17.42   + 55.30     90.52   17.74

The eye is uniformly attracted toward the light and the location of the disk correspondingly
elevated or depressed. The amount of displacement which appears is relatively large. It will
be found to vary with the intensity, extent and distance of the illuminated surfaces introduced.
There can be little doubt that the practical judgments of life are likewise affected by the
distribution of light intensities, and possibly also of significant objects, above and below
the horizon belt. Every brilliant object attracts the eye toward itself; and the horizon beneath
a low sun or moon will be found to be located higher than in a clouded sky. The upper half
of the ordinary field of view--the clear sky--is undiversified and unimportant; the lower half
is full of objects and has significance. We should probably be right in attributing to these
characteristic differences a share in the production of the negative error of judgment which
appears in judgments made in daylight. The introduction of such supplementary stimuli appears
to have little effect upon the regularity of the series of judgments, the values of the mean
variations being relatively low: 17'.42 with light below, 17'.74 with it above.

IX.

In the final series of experiments the influence of limiting visual planes upon the determination
of the subjective horizon was taken up. It had been noticed by Dr. Münsterberg in the course
of travel in hill country that a curious negative displacement of the subjective horizon took
place when one looked across a downward slope to a distant cliff, the altitude (in relation
to the observer's own standpoint) of specific points on the wall of rock being largely overestimated.
Attributing the illusion to a reconstruction of the sensory data upon an erroneous interpretation
of the objective relations of the temporary plane of the landscape, Dr. Münsterberg later made
a series of rough experiments by stretching an inclined cord from the eye downward to a lower
point on an opposite wall and estimating the height above its termination of that point which
appeared to be on a level with the observing eye. He found an illusion present similar to the
case of an extended slope of country.

The first experiments of this group repeated those just described. The previous mechanical
conditions were varied only by the introduction of a slender cord which was stretched from
just below the eyes to the bottom of the vertical screen. Full results were obtained from only
two observers, which are given in the following table:

TABLE XI.

   Observer.   Const. Err.  Av. Dev. Mean Var.  Exp. Conds.

  C  (30)        +123.92   123.92    11.94  Cord present and
  G  (30)         +66.47    66.47    15.56  consciously referred to.
  C  (30)        +126.90   126.90     6.31  Cord not present.
  G  (30)         +83.20    83.20     6.31
  C  (30)        +126.93   126.93     6.39  Cord present but not
  G  (30)         +86.63    86.63     9.40  consciously referred to.

  Averages.  I      +95.19    95.19    13.75
     "      II     +105.05   105.05     6.31
     "     III     +106.78   106.78     7.89

The effect of introducing such an objective plane of reference is twofold: the mean variation
is increased, and the plane of the subjective horizon is displaced downwards. First, then,
it acts as a simple factor of disturbance; it distracts from those habitual adjustments upon
which the accuracy of the judgment depends. Secondly, it enters as a source of constant error
into the determination of the subjective horizon, which is attracted toward this new objective
plane. In the third section of the table are given the results of judgments made in the presence
of such a plane but without conscious reference to it.[2] The figures here are of intermediate
value in the case of the mean variation and of slightly greater value than the first in that
of the constant error. In other words, the introduction of such a plane cannot be wholly overlooked,
though it may be greatly abstracted from.

[2] In the preceding experiments the cord was definitely to be taken into account in making
the judgment. The method of so doing was by running the eye back and forth over the cord preliminary
to determining the location of the point.

The single cord was next replaced by a plane of blackened wood six inches wide and extending
from the observer to the vertical screen. This strip was arranged in two ways: first, from
the observer's chin to the bottom of the screen, and secondly, from the feet of the observer
to a point on the screen a short distance below the plane of the objective horizon. The individual
and average results are given in the following table:

TABLE XII.

   Observer.          Descending Plane.       Ascending Plane.

   A. (10)       +18.80  18.80   5.24     +35.10   35.10  8.27
   E. (20)       +79.30  79.30  11.56    +131.67  131.67 12.07
   H. (10)       -37.50  37.50  16.80     -46.90   46.90  7.90
   K. (30)       +71.40  71.40  12.85     +48.05   48.05  5.11
  Average:         +33.00  51.75  11.61     +41.95   65.43  8.34

The introduction of a descending plane lowers the apparent horizon; that of an ascending plane
elevates it. The general disturbance of judgment appears distinctly greater in the case of
a downward than in that of an upward incline.

The results of a third variation of the experimental conditions may be presented at once. In
it the location of the subjective horizon under normal conditions was compared with the results
of adjustments made when the screen bearing the white disc was rotated backward from the observer
through an angle of varying magnitude. The averages for each of the two subjects are as follows:

TABLE XIII.

 Observer          Const. Err.  Av. Dev.  Mean Var.  Rotation.
   F    (20)       +130.50      130.50      3.20      20°
    "       "        +115.50      115.50      1.10      50°
   J    (20)       +443.10      443.10      9.47      45°

These experiments were carried on in the presence of the definitely figured visual field of
the lighted room, and the observers were conscious of taking these permanent features into
account as correctives in making their judgments. Before proceeding, this defect was remedied
as far as possible by enclosing the apparatus of experimentation, including the observer, between
two walls of black fabric. Nothing was to be seen but these two walls, and the inclined plane
which terminated the observer's view. The position of the screen remained constant at an inclination
of 45°. The upper bounding lines of the enclosing walls, on the contrary, were adjusted in
three different relations to the plane of the gravity horizon. In the first arrangement these
lines were horizontal; in the second the ends next to the observer were depressed five degrees;
while in the final arrangement these ends were elevated through a like angular distance.

The inclined position of the screen was of course observed by every reactor, but of the changes
in the enclosing walls no subject was informed, and none discerned them on any occasion. Each
observer was questioned as to alterations in the experimental conditions after the use of each
arrangement, and at the close of the whole series inquiry was made of each as to the planes
of the upper boundaries of the walls. On various occasions, but not customarily, the observer
was aware of a change of some kind in the whole set of conditions, but the particular feature
altered was not suspected. The results for all three arrangements are given in the following
table; of the sections of this table the third is incomplete, full results having been reached
in the cases of only three observers:

TABLE XV.

                    Ascending Planes.             Descending Planes.  M. V.
  C (50)       -  8.02    11.82     9.47   - 48.14     48.14     9.52
  F (50)       + 78.88    78.88     2.89   + 25.54     25.54     1.98
  G (50)       - 22.56    24.64     6.58   -101.20    101.20     7.39
  H (50)       - 83.84    83.84    11.78   -230.20    230.20    11.88
  J (50)       +315.64   315.64    18.16   +120.12    120.12     9.01
  Average:       + 55.96   102.96     9.78    -44.98    104.84     7.96

                                Horizontal Planes.
  Observer.       Const. Err.    Av. Dev.    Mean Var.
  C   (50)       - 27.86         27.86       9.58
  G   (50)       - 73.84         73.84       7.59
  J   (50)       +243.72        243.72      18.52

For every individual observer, the position of the disc on the screen has been affected by
each change in the direction of these visible lines. In every case, also, its location when
these boundaries lay in a horizontal plane was intermediate between the other two. The importance
of such relations in the objects of the visual field as factors in our ordinary determination
of the subjective horizon is made evident by these experimental results. They become construction
lines having assumed permanence in the world of visual-motor experience. The conception of
unchanging spatial relations in the fundamental lines of perspective vision receives constant
reinforcement from the facts of daily experience. The influence of the above-described changes
in experimental conditions is mediated through their effect upon the location of the focus
of the limiting and perspective lines of vision. As the plane of the upper boundaries of the
enclosing walls was elevated and depressed the intersection of the two systems of lines was
correspondingly raised and lowered, and in dependence upon the location of this imaginary point
the determination of the position of the white disc was made, and the plane of perspective
positively or negatively rotated.

Why such perspective lines should enter into the process of judgment it is not difficult to
infer. The plane of perspective for human beings is characteristically horizontal, in consequence
of the distribution of important objects within the field of visual perception. Roughly, the
belt of the earth's horizon contains the loci of all human perspective planes. Both natural
and artificial arrangements of lines converge there. The systems of visual objects on the earth
and in the sky are there broken sharply off in virtue of their practically vast differences
in quality and significance for the observer. The latter perspective probably never extends
downward illusorily to points on the earth's surface; and the former system of objects is carried
continuously upward to skyey points only on relatively rare occasions, as when one mistakes
clouds for mountains or the upper edge of a fog-belt on the horizon for the rim of sea and
sky. The point of convergence of the fundamental lines of perspective thus becomes assimilated
with the idea of the visual horizon, as that concept has fused with the notion of a subjective
horizon. There can be little doubt that the disposition of such lines enters constantly into
our bodily orientation in space along with sensations arising from the general body position
and from those organs more specially concerned with the static sense.

Upon the misinterpretation of such objective planes depends the illusion of underestimation
of the height or incline of a hill one is breasting, and of the converse overestimation of
one seen across a descending slope or intervening valley. The latter illusion is especially
striking, and in driving over forest roads (in which case the correction of a wider range of
view is excluded) the stretch of level ground at the foot of a hill one is descending is constantly
mistaken for an opposing rise. This illusion is put into picturesque words by Stevenson when
he describes the world, seen from the summit of a mountain upon which one stands, as rising
about him on every side as toward the rim of a great cup. The fitness of the image may be proved
by climbing the nearest hill. In all such cases a reconstruction of the sensory data of judgment
takes place, in which the most significant factor is the plane determined by the positions
of the observing eye and the perspective focus. In these judgments of spatial relationship,
as they follow one another from moment to moment, this plane becomes a temporary subjective
horizon, and according as it is positively or negatively rotated do corresponding illusions
of perception appear.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ILLUSION OF RESOLUTION-STRIPES ON THE COLOR-WHEEL.

BY EDWIN B. HOLT.

If a small rod is passed slowly before a rotating disc composed of two differently colored
sectors, the rod appears to leave behind it on the disc a number of parallel bands of about
the width of the rod and of about the colors, alternately arranged, of the two sectors. These
appear not to move, but gradually to fade away.

This phenomenon was first observed by Münsterberg, and by him shown to Jastrow,[1] who, with
Moorehouse, has printed a study, without, however, offering an adequate explanation of it.

   [1] Jastrow, J., and Moorehouse, G.W.: 'A Novel Optical
   Illusion,' Amer. Jour. of Psychology, 1891, IV., p. 201.

I. APPARATUS FOR PRODUCING THE ILLUSION.

Any form of color-wheel may be used, but preferably one which is driven by electricity or clock-work,
so that a fairly constant speed is assured. Several pairs of paper discs are needed, of the
ordinary interpenetrating kind which permit a ready readjustment of the ratios between the
two sectors, as follows: one pair consisting of a white and a black disc, one of a light-and
a dark-colored disc (light green and dark red have been found admirably suited to the purpose),
and a pair of discs distinctly different in color, but equal in luminosity.

The rod should be black and not more than a quarter of an inch broad. It may be passed before
the rotating disc by hand. For the sake of more careful study, however, the rod should be moved
at a constant rate by some mechanical device, such as the pendulum and works of a Maelzel metronome
removed from their case. The pendulum is fixed just in front of the color-disc. A further commendable
simplification of the conditions consists in arranging the pendulum and disc to move concentrically,
and attaching to the pendulum an isosceles-triangular shield, so cut that it forms a true radial
sector of the disc behind it. All the colored bands of the illusion then appear as radial sectors.
The radial shields should be made in several sizes (from 3 to 50 degrees of arc) in black,
but the smallest size should also be prepared in colors matching the several discs. Such a
disposition, then, presents a disc of fused color, rotating at a uniform rate, and in front
of this a radial sector oscillating from side to side concentrically with the disc, and likewise
at a uniform rate. Several variations of this apparatus will be described as the need and purpose
of them become clear.

II. PREVIOUS DISCUSSION OF THE ILLUSION.

Although Jastrow and Moorehouse (op. cit.) have published a somewhat detailed study of these
illusion-bands, and cleared up certain points, they have not explained them. Indeed, no explanation
of the bands has as yet been given. The authors mentioned (ibid., p. 204) write of producing
the illusion by another method. "This consists in sliding two half discs of the same color
over one another leaving an open sector of any desired size up to 180 degrees and rotating
this against a background of a markedly different color, in other words we substitute for the
disc composed of a large amount of one color, which for brevity we may call the 'majority color,'
and a small amount of another, the 'minority color,' one in which the second color is in the
background and is viewed through an opening in the first. With such an arrangement we find
that we get the series of bands both when the wire is passed in front of the disc and when
passed in back between disc and background; and further experimentation shows that the time
relations of the two are the same. (There is, of course, no essential difference between the
two methods when the wire is passed in front of the disc.)" That is true, but it is to be borne
in mind that there is a difference when the wire is passed behind the disc, as these authors
themselves state (loc. cit., note):--"The time-relations in the two cases are the same, but
the color-phenomena considerably different." However, "these facts enable us to formulate our
first generalization, viz., that for all purposes here relevant [i.e., to a study of the time-relations]
the seeing of a wire now against one background and then immediately against another is the
same as its now appearing and then disappearing; a rapid succession of changed appearances
is equivalent to a rapid alternation of appearance and disappearance. Why this is so we are
unable to say," etc. These authors now take the first step toward explaining the illusion.
In their words (op. cit., p. 205), "the suggestion is natural that we are dealing with the
phenomena of after-images.... If this is the true explanation of the fact that several rods
are seen, then we should, with different rotation rates of disc and rod, see as many rods as
multiplied by the time of one rotation of the disc would yield a constant, i.e., the time of
an after image of the kind under consideration." For two subjects, J.J. and G.M., the following
tabulation was made.

                                                         J.J.       G.M.
Av. time of rot. of disc when 2 images of rod were seen .0812 sec. .0750 sec.
  "       "        "       "  3    "       "    "    "  .0571  "   .0505  "
  "       "        "       "  4    "       "    "    "  .0450  "   .0357  "
  "       "        "       "  5    "       "    "    "  .0350  "   .0293  "
  "       "        "       "  6    "       "    "    "  .0302  "   .0262  "

"Multiplying the number of rods by the rotation rate we get for J.J. an average time of after
image of .1740 sec. (a little over 1/6 sec.) with an average deviation of .0057 (3.2%); for
G.M. .1492 (a little over 1/7 sec.) with an average deviation of .0036 (2.6%). An independent
test of the time of after-image of J.J. and G.M. by observing when a black dot on a rotating
white disc just failed to form a ring resulted in showing in every instance a longer time for
the former than for the latter." That this constant product of the number of 'rods' seen by
the time of one rotation of the disc equals the duration of after-image of the rod is established,
then, only by inference. More indubitable, since directly measured on two subjects, is the
statement that that person will see more 'rods' whose after-image persists longer. This result
the present writer fully confirms. What relation the 'constant product' bears to the duration
of after-image will be spoken of later. But aside from all measurement, a little consideration
of the conditions obtaining when the rod is passed behind the disc will convince any observer
that the bands are indeed after-images somehow dependent on the rod. We may account it established
that the bands are after-images.

From this beginning one might have expected to find in the paper of Jastrow and Moorehouse
a complete explanation of the illusion. On other points, however, these authors are less explicit.
The changes in width of the bands corresponding to different sizes of the sectors and different
rates of movement for the rod and disc, are not explained, nor yet, what is more important,
the color-phenomena. In particular the fact needs to be explained, that the moving rod analyzes
the apparently homogeneous color of the disc; or, as Jastrow and Moorehouse state it (op. cit.,
p. 202): "If two rotating discs were presented to us, the one pure white in color, and the
other of ideally perfect spectral colors in proper proportion, so as to give a precisely similar
white, we could not distinguish between the two; but by simply passing a rod in front of them
and observing in the one case but not in the other the parallel rows of colored bands, we could
at once pronounce the former to be composite, and the latter simple. In the indefinitely brief
moment during which the rod interrupts the vision of the disc, the eye obtains an impression
sufficient to analyze to some extent into its elements this rapid mixture of stimuli." The
very question is as to how the eye obtains the 'impression sufficient to analyze' the mixture.

It may be shown at this point that the mistake of these authors lies in their recognition of
but one set of bands, namely (ibid., p. 201), 'bands of a color similar to that present in
greater proportion' on the disc. But, on the other hand, it is to be emphasized that those
bands are separated from one another, not by the fused color of the disc, as one should infer
from the article, but by other bands, which are, for their part, of a color similar to that
present in lesser proportion. Thus, bands of the two colors alternate; and either color of
band is with equal ease to be distinguished from the fused color of the main portion of the disc.

Why our authors make this mistake is also clear. They first studied the illusion with the smaller
sector of the disc open, and the rod moving behind it; and since in this case the bands are
separated by strips not of the minority but of the fused color, and are of about the width
of the rod itself, these authors came to recognize bands of but one sort, and to call these
'images of the rod.' But now, with the rod moving in front of the disc, there appear bands
of two colors alternately disposed, and neither of these colors is the fused color of the disc.
Rather are these two colors approximately the majority and minority colors of the disc as seen
at rest. Thus, the recognition of but one set of bands and the conclusion (ibid., p. 208) that
'the bands originate during the vision of the minority color,' are wholly erroneous. The bands
originate as well during the vision of the majority color, and, as will later be shown, the
process is continuous. Moreover the 'images of the rod' are of the most diverse widths. In
fact, we shall find that the width of the rod is but one of several factors which determine
the width of its 'images,' the bands.

Prejudiced by the same error is the following statement (ibid., p. 208): "With the majority
color darker than the minority color the bands are darker than the resulting mixture, and lighter
when the majority color is the lighter." If this is to be true, one must read for 'the bands,'
'the narrower bands.'

Another observation found in this article must be criticised. It is asserted that difference
of shade between the two sectors of the disc, as well as difference of color, is essential
to the illusion. To support this, four cases are given: two in which the sectors were so similar
in luminosity as to bring out the illusion but faintly; two in which like luminosities yielded
no illusion at all. The present writer agrees that if the two sectors are closely similar in
luminosity, the illusion is fainter. He also selected a red and a green so near each other
in brightness that when a rod 4 mm. broad (which is the largest rod that Jastrow and Moorehouse
mention having used) was passed by hand before the disc, no trace of a band could be seen.
The pendulum, however, bearing a shield considerably wider than 4 mm. (say of 15 degrees) and
moving before the very same red and green shades, mixed in the same proportions, yielded the
illusion with the utmost clearness. Colors of like luminosities yield the illusion less strikingly,
nevertheless they yield it.

Again (op. cit., p. 205), these authors say: "It has been already observed that the distance
between the bands diminishes as the rotation rate and the rate of movement of the rod increases."
But what had been said before is (ibid., p. 203) that 'the bands are separated by smaller and
smaller spaces as the rate of movement of the rod becomes slower and slower'; and this is equivalent
to saying that the distance between the bands diminishes as the rate of movement of the rod
decreases. The statements are contradictory. But there is no doubt as to which is the wrong
one--it is the first. What these authors have called 'distance between the bands' has here
been shown to be itself a band. Now, no point about this illusion can be more readily observed
than that the widths of both kinds of band vary directly with the speed of the rod, inversely,
however (as Jastrow and Moorehouse have noted), with the speed of the disc.

Perhaps least satisfactory of all is their statement (ibid., p. 206) that "A brief acquaintance
with the illusion sufficed to convince us that its appearance was due to contrast of some form,
though the precise nature of this contrast is the most difficult point of all." The present
discussion undertakes to explain with considerable minuteness every factor of the illusion,
yet the writer does not see how in any essential sense contrast could be said to be involved.

With the other observations of these authors, as that the general effect of an increase in
the width of the interrupting rod was to render the illusion less distinct and the bands wider,
etc., the observations of the present writer fully coincide. These will systematically be given
later, and we may now drop the discussion of this paper.

The only other mention to be found of these resolution-bands is one by Sanford,[2] who says,
apparently merely reiterating the results of Jastrow and Moorehouse, that the illusion is probably
produced by the sudden appearance, by contrast, of the rod as the lighter sector passes behind
it, and by its relative disappearance as the dark sector comes behind. He thus compares the
appearance of several rods to the appearance of several dots in intermittent illumination of
the strobic wheel. If this were the correct explanation, the bands could not be seen when both
sectors were equal in luminosity; for if both were dark, the rod could never appear, and if
both were light, it could never disappear. The bands can, however, be seen, as was stated above,
when both the sectors are light or both are dark. Furthermore, this explanation would make
the bands to be of the same color as the rod. But they are of other colors. Therefore Sanford's
explanation cannot be admitted.

   [2] Sanford, E.C.: 'A Course in Experimental Psychology,'
   Boston, 1898, Part I., p. 167.

And finally, the suggestions toward explanation, whether of Sanford, or of Jastrow and Moorehouse,
are once for all disproved by the observation that if the moving rod is fairly broad (say three
quarters of an inch) and moves slowly, the bands are seen nowhere so well as on the rod itself.
One sees the rod vaguely through the bands, as could scarcely happen if the bands were images
of the rod, or contrast-effects of the rod against the sectors.

The case when the rod is broad and moves slowly is to be accounted a special case. The following
observations, up to No. 8, were made with a narrow rod about five degrees in width (narrower
will do), moved by a metronome at less than sixty beats per minute.

III. OUTLINE OF THE FACTS OBSERVED.

A careful study of the illusion yields the following points:

1. If the two sectors of the disc are unequal in arc, the bands are unequal in width, and the
narrower bands correspond in color to the larger sector. Equal sectors give equally broad bands.

2. The faster the rod moves, the broader become the bands, but not in like proportions; broad
bands widen relatively more than narrow ones; equal bands widen equally. As the bands widen
out it necessarily follows that the alternate bands come to be farther apart.

3. The width of the bands increases if the speed of the revolving disc decreases, but varies
directly, as was before noted, with the speed of the pendulating rod.

4. Adjacent bands are not sharply separated from each other, the transition from one color
to the other being gradual. The sharpest definition is obtained when the rod is very narrow.
It is appropriate to name the regions where one band shades over into the next 'transition-bands.'
These transition-bands, then, partake of the colors of both the sectors on the disc. It is
extremely difficult to distinguish in observation between vagueness of the illusion due to
feebleness in the after-image depending on faint illumination, dark-colored discs or lack of
the desirable difference in luminosity between the sectors (cf. p. 171) and the indefiniteness
which is due to broad transition-bands existing between the (relatively) pure-color bands.
Thus much, however, seems certain (Jastrow and Moorehouse have reported the same, op. cit.,
p. 203): the wider the rod, the wider the transition-bands. It is to be noticed, moreover,
that, for rather swift movements of the rod, the bands are more sharply defined if this movement
is contrary to that of the disc than if it is in like direction with that of the disc. That
is, the transition-bands are broader when rod and disc move in the same, than when in opposite
directions.

5. The total number of bands seen (the two colors being alternately arranged and with transition-bands
between) at any one time is approximately constant, howsoever the widths of the sectors and
the width and rate of the rod may vary. But the number of bands is inversely proportional,
as Jastrow and Moorehouse have shown (see above, p. 169), to the time of rotation of the disc;
that is, the faster the disc, the more bands. Wherefore, if the bands are broad (No. 2), they
extend over a large part of the disc; but if narrow, they cover only a small strip lying immediately
behind the rod.

6. The colors of the bands approximate those of the two sectors; the transition-bands present
the adjacent 'pure colors' merging into each other. But all the bands are modified in favor
of the color of the moving rod. If, now, the rod is itself the same in color as one of the
sectors, the bands which should have been of the other color are not to be distinguished from
the fused color of the disc when no rod moves before it.

7. The bands are more strikingly visible when the two sectors differ considerably in luminosity.
But Jastrow's observation, that a difference in luminosity is necessary, could not be confirmed.
Rather, on the contrary, sectors of the closest obtainable luminosity still yielded the illusion,
although faintly.

8. A broad but slowly moving rod shows the bands overlying itself. Other bands can be seen
left behind it on the disc.

9. But a case of a rod which is broad, or slowly-moving, or both, is a special complication
which involves several other and seemingly quite contradictory phenomena to those already noted.
Since these suffice to show the principles by which the illusion is to be explained, enumeration
of the special variations is deferred.

IV. THE GEOMETRICAL RELATIONS BETWEEN THE ROD AND THE SECTORS OF THE DISC.

It should seem that any attempt to explain the illusion-bands ought to begin with a consideration
of the purely geometrical relations holding between the slowly-moving rod and the swiftly-revolving
disc. First of all, then, it is evident that the rod lies in front of each sector successively.

Let Fig. 1 represent the upper portion of a color-wheel, with center at O, and with equal sectors
A and B, in front of which a rod P oscillates to right and left on the same axis as that of
the wheel. Let the disc rotate clockwise, and let P be observed in its rightward oscillation.
Since the disc moves faster than the rod, the front of the sector A will at some point come
up to and pass behind the rod P, say at p^{A}. P now hides a part of A and both are moving
in the same direction. Since the disc still moves the faster, the front of A will presently
emerge from behind P, then more and more of A will emerge, until finally no part of it is hidden
by P. If, now, P were merely a line (having no width) and were not moving, the last of A would
emerge just where its front edge had gone behind P, namely at p^{A}. But P has a certain width
and a certain rate of motion, so that A will wholly emerge from behind P at some point to the
right, say p^{B}. How far to the right this will be depends on the speed and width of A, and
on the speed and width of P.

Now, similarly, at p^{B} the sector B has come around and begins to pass behind P. It in turn
will emerge at some point to the right, say p^{C}. And so the process will continue. From p^{A}
to p^{B} the pendulum covers some part of the sector A; from p^{B} to p^{C} some part of sector
B; from p^{C} to P^{D} some part of A again, and so on.

If, now, the eye which watches this process is kept from moving, these relations will be reproduced
on the retina. For the retinal area corresponding to the triangle p^{A}Op^{B}, there will be
less stimulation from the sector A than there would have been if the pendulum had not partly
hidden it. That is, the triangle in question will not be seen of the fused color of A and B,
but will lose a part of its A-component. In the same way the triangle p^{B}OpC will lose a
part of its B-component; and so on alternately. And by as much as either component is lost,
by so much will the color of the intercepting pendulum (in this case, black) be present to
make up the deficiency.

We see, then, that the purely geometrical relations of disc and pendulum necessarily involve
for vision a certain banded appearance of the area which is swept by the pendulum, if the eye
is held at rest. We have now to ask, Are these the bands which we set out to study? Clearly
enough these geometrically inevitable bands can be exactly calculated, and their necessary
changes formulated for any given change in the speed or width of A, B, or P. If it can be shown
that they must always vary just as the bands we set out to study are observed to vary, it will
be certain that the bands of the illusion have no other cause than the interception of retinal
stimulation by the sectors of the disc, due to the purely geometrical relations between the
sectors and the pendulum which hides them.

And exactly this will be found to be the case. The widths of the bands of the illusion depend
on the speed and widths of the sectors and of the pendulum used; the colors and intensities
of the bands depend on the colors and intensities of the sectors (and of the pendulum); while
the total number of bands seen at one time depends on all these factors.

V. GEOMETRICAL DEDUCTION OF THE BANDS.

In the first place, it is to be noted that if the pendulum proceeds from left to right, for
instance, before the disc, that portion of the latter which lies in front of the advancing
rod will as yet not have been hidden by it, and will therefore be seen of the unmodified, fused
color. Only behind the pendulum, where rotating sectors have been hidden, can the bands appear.
And this accords with the first observation (p. 167), that "The rod appears to leave behind
it on the disc a number of parallel bands." It is as if the rod, as it passes, painted them
on the disc.

Clearly the bands are not formed simultaneously, but one after another as the pendulum passes
through successive positions. And of course the newest bands are those which lie immediately
behind the pendulum. It must now be asked, Why, if these bands are produced successively, are
they seen simultaneously? To this, Jastrow and Moorehouse have given the answer, "We are dealing
with the phenomena of after-images." The bands persist as after-images while new ones are being
generated. The very oldest, however, disappear pari-passu with the generation of the new. We
have already seen (p. 169) how well these authors have shown this, in proving that the number
of bands seen, multiplied by the rate of rotation of the disc, is a constant bearing some relation
to the duration of a retinal image of similar brightness to the bands. It is to be noted now,
however, that as soon as the rod has produced a band and passed on, the after-image of that
band on the retina is exposed to the same stimulation from the rotating disc as before, that
is, is exposed to the fused color; and this would tend to obliterate the after-images. Thus
the oldest bands would have to disappear more quickly than an unmolested after-image of the
same original brightness. We ought, then, to see somewhat fewer bands than the formula of Jastrow
and Moorehouse would indicate. In other words, we should find on applying the formula that
the 'duration of the after-image' must be decreased by a small amount before the numerical
relations would hold. Since Jastrow and Moorehouse did not determine the relation of the after-image
by an independent measurement, their work neither confirms nor refutes this conjecture.

What they failed to emphasize is that the real origin of the bands is not the intermittent
appearances of the rod opposite the lighter sector, as they seem to believe, but the successive
eclipse by the rod of each sector in turn.

If, in Fig. 2, we have a disc (composed of a green and a red sector) and a pendulum, moving
to the right, and if P represents the pendulum at the instant when the green sector AOB is
beginning to pass behind it, it follows that some other position farther to the right, as P',
will represent the pendulum just as the last part of the sector is passing out from behind
it. Some part at least of the sector has been hidden during the entire interval in which the
pendulum was passing from P to P'. Clearly the arc BA' measures the band BOA', in which the
green stimulation from the sector AOB is thus at least partially suppressed, that is, on which
a relatively red band is being produced. If the illusion really depends on the successive eclipse
of the sectors by the pendulum, as has been described, it will be possible to express BA',
that is, the width of a band, in terms of the widths and rates of movement of the two sectors
and of the pendulum. This expression will be an equation, and from this it will be possible
to derive the phenomena which the bands of the illusion actually present as the speeds of disc
and rod, and the widths of sectors and rod, are varied.

Now in Fig. 2 let the
  width of the band (i.e., the arc BA')       = Z
  speed of pendulum                             = r degrees per second;
  speed of disc                                 = r' degrees per second;
  width of sector AOB (i.e., the arc AB)      = s degrees of arc;
  width of pendulum (i.e., the arc BC)        = p degrees of arc;
  time in which the pendulum moves from P to P' = t seconds.

Now
                       arc CA'
                   t = -------;
                          r

but, since in the same time the green sector AOB moves from B to B',
we know also that
                       arc BB'
                   t = -------;
                         r'
then
                   arc CA'      arc BB'
                   -------  =   -------,
                      r           r'

or, omitting the word "arc" and clearing of fractions,

                   r'(CA') = r(BB').
But now
                   CA' = BA' - BC,
while
                   BA' = Z and BC = p;
therefore
                   CA' = Z-p.
Similarly
                   BB' = BA' + A'B' = Z + s.

Substituting for CA' and BB' their values, we get

                   r'(Z-p) = r(Z+s),
or
                   Z(r' - r) = rs + pr',
or
                   Z = rs + pr' / r' - r.

It is to be remembered that s is the width of the sector which undergoes eclipse, and that
it is the color of that same sector which is subtracted from the band Z in question. Therefore,
whether Z represents a green or a red band, s of the formula must refer to the oppositely colored
sector, i.e., the one which is at that time being hidden.

We have now to take cognizance of an item thus far neglected. When the green sector has reached
the position A'B', that is, is just emerging wholly from behind the pendulum, the front of
the red sector must already be in eclipse. The generation of a green band (red sector in eclipse)
will have commenced somewhat before the generation of the red band (green sector in eclipse)
has ended. For a moment the pendulum will lie over parts of both sectors, and while the red
band ends at point A', the green band will have already commenced at a point somewhat to the
left (and, indeed, to the left by a trifle more than the width of the pendulum). In other words,
the two bands overlap.

This area of overlapping may itself be accounted a band, since here the pendulum hides partly
red and partly green, and obviously the result for sensation will not be the same as for those
areas where red or green alone is hidden. We may call the overlapped area a 'transition-band,'
and we must then ask if it corresponds to the 'transition-bands' spoken of in the observations.

Now the formula obtained for Z includes two such transition-bands, one generated in the vicinity
of OB and one near OA'. To find the formula for a band produced while the pendulum conceals
solely one, the oppositely colored sector (we may call this a 'pure-color' band and let its
width = W), we must find the formula for the width (w) of a transition-band, multiply it by
two, and subtract the product from the value for Z already found.

The formula for an overlapping or transition-band can be readily found by considering it to
be a band formed by the passage behind P of a sector whose width is zero. Thus if, in the expression
for Z already found, we substitute zero for s, we shall get w; that is,

              o + pr'      pr'
          w = ------- =  ------
              r' - r     r' - r
Since
          W = Z - 2w,
we have
              rs + pr'       pr'
          W = -------- = 2 ------,
               r' - r      r' - r
or
              rs - pr'
          W = --------            (1)
               r' - r

Fig. 3 shows how to derive W directly (as Z was derived) from the geometrical relations of
pendulum and sectors. Let r, r', s, p, and t, be as before, but now let

    width of the band (i.e., the arc BA') = W;

that is, the band, instead of extending as before from where P begins to hide the green sector
to where P ceases to hide the same, is now to extend from the point at which P ceases to hide
any part of the red sector to the point where it just commences again to hide the same.

Then
                           W + p
                      t = ------- ,
                             r
and
                           W + s
                      t = ------- ,
                             r'

therefore
                 W + p      W + s
                ------- =  ------- ,
                   r          r'

              r'(W + p) = r(W + s) ,

             W (r' - r) = rs - pr' ,
and, again,
                          rs - pr'
                      W = -------- .
                           r' - r

Before asking if this pure-color band W can be identified with the bands observed in the illusion,
we have to remember that the value which we have found for W is true only if disc and pendulum
are moving in the same direction; whereas the illusion-bands are observed indifferently as
disc and pendulum move in the same or in opposite directions. Nor is any difference in their
width easily observable in the two cases, although it is to be borne in mind that there may
be a difference too small to be noticed unless some measuring device is used.

From Fig. 4 we can find the width of a pure-color band (W) when pendulum and disc move in opposite
directions. The letters are used as in the preceding case, and W will include no transition-band.

We have

           W + p
       t = -----,
             r
and
           s - W
       t = -----,
             r'

       r'(W + p) = r(s - W) ,

       W(r' + r) = rs - pr' ,

           rs - pr'
       W = -------- .           (2)
            r' + r

Now when pendulum and disc move in the same direction,

            rs - pr'
       W = --------- ,          (1)
            r' - r

so that to include both cases we may say that

           rs - pr'
       W = -------- .           (3)
            r' ± r

The width (W) of the transition-bands can be found, similarly, from the geometrical relations
between pendulum and disc, as shown in Figs. 5 and 6. In Fig. 5 rod and disc are moving in
the same direction, and

        w = BB'.

Now
             W - p
        t = ------- ,
              r'

             w
        t = --- ,
             r'

        r'(w-p) = rw ,

        w(r'-r) = pr' ,

                pr'
         w = ------- .          (4)
               r'-r

In Fig. 6 rod and disc are moving in opposite directions, and

         w = BB',

              p - w
         t = ------- ,
                r

              w
         t = --- ,
              r'

         r'(p - w) = rw ,

         w(r' + r) = pr' ,

                pr'
         w = -------- .
              r' + r            (5)

So that to include both cases (of movement in the same or in opposite directions), we have that

                pr'
         w = -------- .
              r' ± r            (6)

VI. APPLICATION OF THE FORMULAS TO THE BANDS OF THE ILLUSION.

Will these formulas, now, explain the phenomena which the bands of the illusion actually present
in respect to their width?

1.

In formula 3, W represents the width of a band, and s the width of the oppositely colored sector.
Therefore, if a disc is composed, for example, of a red and a green sector, then

                         rs(green) -  pr'
               W(red) = ------------------ ,
                              r' ± r
and
                         rs(red) -  pr'
             W(green) = ------------------ ,
                              r' ± r

therefore, by dividing,

              W(red)     rs(green) -  pr'
            --------- = ------------------- .
             W(green)      rs(red) -  pr'

From this last equation it is clear that unless s(green) = s(red), W(red) cannot equal W(green).
That is, if the two sectors are unequal in width, the bands are also unequal. This was the
first feature of the illusion above noted.

Again, if one sector is larger, the oppositely colored bands will be larger, that is, the light-colored
bands will be narrower; or, in other words, 'the narrower bands correspond in color to the
larger sector.'

Finally, if the sectors are equal, the bands must also be equal.

So far, then, the bands geometrically deduced present the same variations as the bands observed
in the illusion.

2. The speed of the rod or pendulum, in degrees per second, equals r. Now if W increases when
r increases, D{[tau]}W must be positive or greater than zero for all values of r which lie
in question.

Now
                     rs - pr'
                W = --------- ,
                      r' ± r
and
                      (r' ± r)s [±] (rs - pr')
      D{[tau]}W  = -------------------------- ,
                             (r ± r')

or reduced,
                      r'(s ± p)
                  = -----------
                      (r' ± r)²

Since r' (the speed of the disc) is always positive, and s is always greater than p (cf. p.
173), and since the denominator is a square and therefore positive, it follows that

                 D{[tau]}W > 0

or that W increases if r increases.

Furthermore, if W is a wide band, s is the wider sector. The rate of increase of W as r increases
is

                     r'(s ± p)
       D{[tau]}W = -----------
                     (r' ± r)²

which is larger if s is larger (s and r being always positive). That is, as r increases, 'broad
bands widen relatively more than narrow ones.'

3. This speed is r'. That the observed fact is equally true of the geometrical bands is clear
from inspection, since in

                    rs - pr'
               W = --------- ,
                     r' ± r

as r' decreases, the denominator of the right-hand member decreases while the numerator increases.

4. We now come to the transition-bands, where one color shades over into the other. It was
observed (p. 174, No. 4) that, "These partake of the colors of both the sectors on the disc.
The wider the rod the wider the transition-bands."

We have already seen (p. 180) that at intervals the pendulum conceals
a portion of both the sectors, so that at those points the color of
the band will be found not by deducting either color alone from the
fused color, but by deducting a small amount of both colors in
definite proportions. The locus of the positions where both colors are
to be thus deducted we have provisionally called (in the geometrical
section) 'transition-bands.' Just as for pure-color bands, this locus
is a radial sector, and we have found its width to be (formula 6, p.
184)
                       pr'
               W = --------- ,
                     r' ± r

Now, are these bands of bi-color deduction identical with the transition-bands observed in
the illusion? Since the total concealing capacity of the pendulum for any given speed is fixed,
less of either color can be deducted for a transition-band than is deducted of one color for
a pure-color band.

5. We next come to an observation (p. 174, No. 5) concerning the number of bands seen at any
one time. The 'geometrical deduction of the bands,' it is remembered, was concerned solely
with the amount of color which was to be deducted from the fused color of the disc. W and w
represented the widths of the areas whereon such deduction was to be made. In observation 5
we come on new considerations, i.e., as to the color from which the deduction is to be made,
and the fate of the momentarily hidden area which suffers deduction, after the pendulum has
passed on.

We shall best consider these matters in terms of a concept of which Marbe[3] has made admirable
use: the 'characteristic effect.' The Talbot-Plateau law states that when two or more periodically
alternating stimulations are given to the retina, there is a certain minimal rate of alternation
required to produce a just constant sensation. This minimal speed of succession is called the
critical period. Now, Marbe calls the effect on the retina of a light-stimulation which lasts
for the unit of time, the 'photo-chemical unit-effect.' And he says (op. cit., S. 387): "If
we call the unit of time 1[sigma], the sensation for each point on the retina in each unit
of time is a function of the simultaneous and the few immediately preceding unit-effects; this
is the characteristic effect."

   [3] 'Marbe, K.: 'Die stroboskopischen Erscheinungen,' Phil.
   Studien., 1898, XIV., S. 376.

We may now think of the illusion-bands as being so and so many different 'characteristic effects'
given simultaneously in so and so many contiguous positions on the retina. But so also may
we think of the geometrical interception-bands, and for these we can deduce a number of further
properties. So far the observed illusion-bands and the interception-bands have been found identical,
that is, in so far as their widths under various conditions are concerned. We have now to see
if they present further points of identity.

As to the characteristic effects incident to the interception-bands; in Fig. 7 (Plate V.),
let A'C' represent at a given moment M, the total circumference of a color-disc, A'B' represent
a green sector of 90°, and B'C' a red complementary sector of 270°. If the disc is supposed
to rotate from left to right, it is clear that a moment previous to M the two sectors and their
intersection B will have occupied a position slightly to the left. If distance perpendicularly
above A'C' is conceived to represent time previous to M, the corresponding previous positions
of the sectors will be represented by the oblique bands of the figure. The narrow bands (GG,
GG) are the loci of the successive positions of the green sector; the broader bands (RR, RR),
of the red sector.

In the figure, 0.25 mm. vertically = the unit of time = 1[sigma]. The successive stimulations
given to the retina by the disc A'C', say at a point A', during the interval preceding the
moment M will be

  green 10[sigma],
  red   30[sigma],
  green 10[sigma],
  red   30[sigma], etc.

Now a certain number of these stimulations which immediately precede M will determine the characteristic
effect, the fusion color, for the point A' at the moment M. We do not know the number of unit-stimulations
which contribute to this characteristic effect, nor do we need to, but it will be a constant,
and can be represented by a distance x = A'A above the line A'C'. Then A'A will represent the
total stimulus which determines the characteristic effect at A'. Stimuli earlier than A are
no longer represented in the after-image. AC is parallel to A'C', and the characteristic effect
for any point is found by drawing the perpendicular at that point between the two lines A'C and AC.

Just as the movement of the disc, so can that of the concealing pendulum be represented. The
only difference is that the pendulum is narrower, and moves more slowly. The slower rate is
represented by a steeper locus-band, PP', than those of the swifter sectors.

We are now able to consider geometrically deduced bands as 'characteristic effects,' and we
have a graphic representation of the color-deduction determined by the interception of the
pendulum. The deduction-value of the pendulum is the distance (xy) which it intercepts on a
line drawn perpendicular to A'C'.

Lines drawn perpendicular to A'C' through the points of intersection of the locus-band of the
pendulum with those of the sectors will give a 'plot' on A'C' of the deduction-bands. Thus
from 1 to 2 the deduction is red and the band green; from 2 to 3 the deduction is decreasingly
red and increasingly green, a transition-band; from 3 to 4 the deduction is green and the band
red; and so forth.

We are now prepared to continue our identification of these geometrical interception-bands
with the bands observed in the illusion. It is to be noted in passing that this graphic representation
of the interception-bands as characteristic effects (Fig. 7) is in every way consistent with
the previous equational treatment of the same bands. A little consideration of the figure will
show that variations of the widths and rates of sectors and pendulum will modify the widths
of the bands exactly as has been shown in the equations.

This is true, point for point, of the interception-bands of Fig. 7. It is clear that the number
of bands depends on the number of intersections of PP' with the several locus-bands RR, GG,
RR, etc. Since the two sectors are complementary, having a constant sum of 360°, their relative
widths will not affect the number of such intersections. Nor yet will the width of the rod
P affect it. As to the speed of P, if the locus-bands are parallel to the line A'C', that is,
of the disc moved infinitely rapidly, there would be the same number of intersections, no matter
what the rate of P, that is, whatever the obliqueness of PP'. But although the disc does not
rotate with infinite speed, it is still true that for a considerable range of values for the
speed of the pendulum the number of intersections is constant. The observations of Jastrow
and Moorehouse were probably made within such a range of values of r. For while their disc
varied in speed from 12 to 33 revolutions per second, that is, 4,320 to 11,880 degrees per
second, the rod was merely passed to and fro by hand through an excursion of six inches (J.
and M., op. cit., pp. 203-5), a method which could have given no speed of the rod comparable
to that of the disc. Indeed, their fastest speed for the rod, to calculate from certain of
their data, was less than 19 inches per second.

The present writer used about the same rates, except that for the disc no rate below 24 revolutions
per second was employed. This is about the rate which v. Helmholtz[4] gives as the slowest
which will yield fusion from a bi-sectored disc in good illumination. It is hard to imagine
how, amid the confusing flicker of a disc revolving but 12 times in the second, Jastrow succeeded
in taking any reliable observations at all of the bands. Now if, in Fig. 8 (Plate V.), 0.25
mm. on the base-line equals one degree, and in the vertical direction equals 1[sigma], the
locus-bands of the sectors (here equal to each other in width), make such an angle with A'C'
as represents the disc to be rotating exactly 36 times in a second. It will be seen that the
speed of the rod may vary from that shown by the locus P'P to that shown by P'A; and the speeds
represented are respectively 68.96 and 1,482.64 degrees per second; and throughout this range
of speeds the locus-band of P intercepts the loci of the sectors always the same number of
times. Thus, if the disc revolves 36 times a second, the pendulum may move anywhere from 69
to 1,483 degrees per second without changing the number of bands seen at a time.

   [4] v. Helmholtz, H.: 'Handbuch d. physiolog. Optik,' Hamburg
   u. Leipzig, 1896, S. 489.

And from the figure it will be seen that this is true whether the pendulum moves in the same
direction as the disc, or in the opposite direction. This range of speed is far greater than
the concentrically swinging metronome of the present writer would give. The rate of Jastrow's
rod, of 19 inches per second, cannot of course be exactly translated into degrees, but it probably
did not exceed the limit of 1,483. Therefore, although beyond certain wide limits the rate
of the pendulum will change the total number of deduction-bands seen, yet the observations
were, in all probability (and those of the present writer, surely), taken within the aforesaid
limits. So that as the observations have it, "The total number of bands seen at any one time
is approximately constant, howsoever ... the rate of the rod may vary." On this score, also,
the illusion-bands and the deduction-bands present no differences.

But outside of this range it can indeed be observed that the number of bands does vary with
the rate of the rod. If this rate (r) is increased beyond the limits of the previous observations,
it will approach the rate of the disc (r'). Let us increase r until r = r'. To observe the
resulting bands, we have but to attach the rod or pendulum to the front of the disc and let
both rotate together. No bands are seen, i.e., the number of bands has become zero. And this,
of course, is just what should have been expected from a consideration of the deduction-bands
in Fig. 8.

One other point in regard to the total number of bands seen: it was observed (page 174, No.
5) that, "The faster the disc, the more bands." This too would hold of the deduction-bands,
for the faster the disc and sectors move, the narrower and more nearly parallel to A'C' (Fig.
7) will be their locus-bands, and the more of these bands will be contained within the vertical
distance A'A (or C'C), which, it is remembered, represents the age of the oldest after-image
which still contributes to the characteristic effect. PP' will therefore intercept more loci
of sectors, and more deduction-bands will be generated.

6.

These items are equally true of the deduction-bands, since a deduction of a part of one of
the components from a fused color must leave an approximation to the other component. And clearly,
too, by as much as either color is deducted, by so much must the color of the pendulum itself
be added. So that, if the pendulum is like one of the sectors in color, whenever that sector
is hidden the deduction for concealment will exactly equal the added allowance for the color
of the pendulum, and there will be no bands of the other color distinguishable from the fused
color of the disc.

It is clear from Fig. 7 why a transition-band shades gradually from one pure-color band over
into the other. Let us consider the transition-band 2-3 (Fig. 7). Next it on the right is a
green band, on the left a red. Now at the right-hand edge of the transition-band it is seen
that the deduction is mostly red and very little green, a ratio which changes toward the left
to one of mostly green and very little red. Thus, next to the red band the transition-band
will be mostly red, and it will shade continuously over into green on the side adjacent to
the green band.

7. This is to be expected, since the greater the contrast, whether in regard to color, saturation,
or intensity, between the sectors, the greater will be such contrast between the two deductions,
and hence the greater will it be between the resulting bands. And, therefore, the bands will
be more strikingly distinguishable from each other, that is, 'visible.'

8. "A broad but slowly-moving rod shows the bands lying over itself. Other bands can also be
seen behind it on the disc."

In Fig. 9 (Plate V.) are shown the characteristic effects produced by a broad and slowly-moving
rod. Suppose it to be black. It can be so broad and move so slowly that for a space the characteristic
effect is largely black (Fig. 9 on both sides of x). Specially will this be true between x
and y, for here, while the pendulum contributes no more photo-chemical unit-effects, it will
contribute the newer one, and howsoever many unit-effects go to make up the characteristic
effect, the newer units are undoubtedly the more potent elements in determining this effect.
The old units have partly faded. One may say that the newest units are 'weighted.'

Black will predominate, then, on both sides of x, but specially between x and y. For a space,
then, the characteristic effect will contain enough black to yield a 'perception of the rod.'
The width of this region depends on the width and speed of the rod, but in Fig. 9 it will be
roughly coincident with xy, though somewhat behind (to the left of) it. The characteristic
will be either wholly black, as just at x, or else largely black with the yet contributory
after-images (shown in the triangle aby). Some bands will thus be seen overlying the rod (1-8),
and others lying back of it (9-16).

We have now reviewed all the phenomena so far enumerated of the illusion-bands, and for every
case we have identified these bands with the bands which must be generated on the retina by
the mere concealment of the rotating sectors by the moving rod. It has been more feasible thus
far to treat these deduction-bands as if possibly they were other than the bands of the illusion;
for although the former must certainly appear on the retina, yet it was not clear that the
illusion-bands did not involve additional and complicated retinal or central processes. The
showing that the two sets of bands have in every case identical properties, shows that they
are themselves identical. The illusion-bands are thus explained to be due merely to the successive
concealment of the sectors of the disc as each passes in turn behind the moving pendulum. The
only physiological phenomena involved in this explanation have been the persistence as after-images
of retinal stimulations, and the summation of these persisting images into characteristic effects--both
familiar phenomena.

From this point on it is permissible to simplify the point of view by accounting the deduction-bands
and the bands of the illusion fully identified, and by referring to them under either name
indifferently. Figs. 1 to 9, then, are diagrams of the bands which we actually observe on the
rotating disc. We have next briefly to consider a few special complications produced by a greater
breadth or slower movement of the rod, or by both together. These conditions are called 'complicating'
not arbitrarily, but because in fact they yield the bands in confusing form. If the rod is
broad, the bands appear to overlap; and if the rod moves back and forth, at first rapidly but
with decreasing speed, periods of mere confusion occur which defy description; but the bands
of the minor color may be broader or may be narrower than those of the other color.

VII. FURTHER COMPLICATIONS OF THE ILLUSION.

9. If the rod is broad and moves slowly, the narrower bands are like colored, not with the
broader, as before, but with the narrower sector.

The conditions are shown in Fig. 9. From 1 to 2 the deduction is increasingly green, and yet
the remainder of the characteristic effect is also mostly green at 1, decreasingly so to the
right, and at 2 is preponderantly red; and so on to 8; while a like consideration necessitates
bands from x to 16. All the bands are in a sense transition-bands, but 1-2 will be mostly green,
2-3 mostly red, and so forth. Clearly the widths of the bands will be here proportional to
the widths of the like-colored sectors, and not as before to the oppositely colored.

It may reasonably be objected that there should be here no bands at all, since the same considerations
would give an increasingly red band from B' to A', whereas by hypothesis the disc rotates so
fast as to give an entirely uniform color. It is true that when the characteristic effect is
A' A entire, the fusion-color is so well established as to assimilate a fresh stimulus of either
of the component colors, without itself being modified. But on the area from 1 to 16 the case
is different, for here the fusion-color is less well established, a part of the essential colored
units having been replaced by black, the color of the rod; and black is no stimulation. So
that the same increment of component color, before ineffective, is now able to modify the enfeebled
fusion-color.

Observation confirms this interpretation, in that band y-1 is not red, but merely the fusion-color
slightly darkened by an increment of black. Furthermore, if the rod is broad and slow in motion,
but white instead of black, no bands can be seen overlying the rod. For here the small successive
increments which would otherwise produce the bands 1-2, 2-3, etc., have no effect on the remainder
of the fusion-color plus the relatively intense increment of white.

It may be said here that the bands 1-2, 2-3, etc., are less intense than the bands x-9, 9-10,
etc., because there the recent or weighted unit-effects are black, while here they are the
respective colors. Also the bands grow dimmer from x-9 to 15-16, that is, as they become older,
for the small increment of one color which would give band 15-16 is almost wholly overridden
by the larger and fresher mass of stimulation which makes for mere fusion. This last is true
of the bands always, whatever the rate or width of the rod.

10. In general, equal sectors give equal bands, but if one sector is considerably more intense
than the other, the bands of the brighter color will, for a broad and swiftly-moving rod, be
the broader. The brighter sector, though equal in width to the other, contributes more toward
determining the fusion-color; and this fact is represented by an intrusion of the stronger
color into the transition-bands, at the expense of the weaker. For in these, even the decreased
amount of the stronger color, on the side next a strong-color band, is yet more potent than
the increased amount of the feebler color. In order to observe this fact one must have the
rod broad, so as to give a broad transition-band on which the encroachment of the stronger
color may be evident. The process is the same with a narrow rod and narrow transition-bands,
but, being more limited in extent, it is less easily observed. The rod must also move rapidly,
for otherwise the bands overlap and become obscure, as will be seen in the next paragraph.

11. If the disc consists of a broad and narrow sector, and if the rod is broad and moves at
first rapidly but more slowly with each new stroke, there are seen at first broad, faint bands
of the minority-color, and narrow bands of the majority-color. The former grow continuously
more intense as the rod moves more slowly, and grow narrower in width down to zero; whereupon
the other bands seem to overlap, the overlapped part being doubly deep in color, while the
non-overlapped part has come to be more nearly the color of the minor sector. The overlapped
portion grows in width. As the rate of the rod now further decreases, a confused state ensues
which cannot be described. When, finally, the rod is moving very slowly, the phenomena described
above in paragraph 9 occur.

The successive changes in appearance as the rod moves more and more slowly, are due to the
factors previously mentioned, and to one other which follows necessarily from the given conditions
but has not yet been considered. This is the last new principle in the illusion which we shall
have to take up. Just as the transition-bands are regions where two pure-color bands overlap,
so, when the rod is broad and moves slowly, other overlappings occur to produce more complicated
arrangements.

These can be more compactly shown by diagram than by words. Fig. 10, a, b and c (Plate VI.),
show successively slower speeds of the rod, while all the other factors are the same. In practice
the tendency is to perceive the transition-bands as parts of the broad faint band of the minor
color, which lies between them. It can be seen, then, how the narrow major-color bands grow
only slightly wider (Fig. 10, a, b) until they overlap (c); how the broad minor-color bands
grow very narrow and more intense in color, there being always more of the major color deducted
(in b they are reduced exactly to zero, z, z, z). In c the major-color bands overlap (o, o,
o) to give a narrow but doubly intense major-color band since, although with one major, two
minor locus-bands are deducted. The other bands also overlap to give complicated combinations
between the o-bands. These mixed bands will be, in part at least, minor-color bands (q, q,
q), since, although a minor locus-band is here deducted, yet nearly two major locus-bands are
also taken, leaving the minor color to predominate. This corresponds with the observation above,
that, '... the non-overlapped part has come to be more nearly the color of the minor sector.'

A slightly slower speed of the rod would give an irreducible confusion of bands, since the
order in which they overlap becomes very complicated. Finally, when the rod comes to move very
slowly, as in Fig. 9, the appearance suffers no further change, except for a gradual narrowing
of all the bands, up to the moment when the rod comes to rest.

It is clear that this last principle adduced, of the multiple overlapping of bands when the
rod is broad and moves slowly, can give for varying speeds of the rod the greatest variety
of combinations of the bands. Among these is to be included that of no bands at all, as will
be understood from Fig. 11 (Plate VII). And in fact, a little practice will enable the observer
so to adjust the rate of the (broad) rod to that of the disc that no bands are observable.
But care must be taken here that the eye is rigidly fixated and not attracted into movement
by the rod, since of course if the eye moves with the rod, no bands can be seen, whatever the
rate of movement may be.

Thus, all the phenomena of these illusion-bands have been explained as the result solely of
the hiding by the rod of successive sectors of the disc. The only physiological principles
involved are those (1) of the duration of after-images, and (2) of their summation into a characteristic
effect. It may have seemed to the reader tedious and unnecessary so minutely to study the bands,
especially the details last mentioned; yet it was necessary to show how all the possible observable
phenomena arise from the purely geometrical fact that sectors are successively hidden. Otherwise
the assertions of previous students of the illusion, that more intricate physiological processes
are involved, could not have been refuted. The present writer does not assert that no processes
like contrast, induction, etc., come into play to modify somewhat the saturation, etc., of
the colors in the bands. It must be here as in every other case of vision. But it is now demonstrated
that these remoter physiological processes contribute nothing essential to the illusion. For
these could be dispensed with and the illusion would still remain.

If any reader still suspects that more is involved than the persistence of after-images, and
their summation into a characteristic effect, he will find it interesting to study the illusion
with a camera. The 'physiological' functions referred to belong as well to the dry-plate as
to the retina, while the former exhibits, presumably, neither contrast nor induction. The illusion-bands
can be easily photographed in a strong light, if white and black sectors are used in place
of colored ones. It is best to arrange the other variable factors so as to make the transition-bands
as narrow as possible (p. 174, No. 4). The writer has two negatives which show the bands very
well, although so delicately that it is not feasible to try to reproduce them.

VIII. SOME CONVENIENT DEVICES FOR EXHIBITING THE ILLUSION.

The influence of the width of sector is prettily shown by a special disc like that shown in
Fig. 12 (Plate VII.), where the colors are dark-red and light-green, the shaded being the darker
sector. A narrow rod passed before such a disc by hand at a moderate rate will give over the
outer ring equally wide green and red bands; but on the inner rings the red bands grow narrower,
the green broader.

The fact that the bands are not 'images of the rod' can be shown by another disc (Fig. 13,
Plate VII.). In all three rings the lighter (green) sector is 60° wide, but disposed on the
disc as shown. The bands are broken into zigzags. The parts over the outer ring lag behind
those over the middle, and these behind those over the inner ring--'behind,' that is, farther
behind the rod.

Another effective variation is to use rods alike in color with one or the other of the sectors.
Here it is clear that when the rod hides the oppositely-colored sector, the deduction of that
color is replaced (not by black, as happens if the rod is black) but by the very color which
is already characteristic of that band. But when the rod hides the sector of its own color,
the deduction is replaced by the very same color. Thus, bands like colored with the rod gain
in depth of tone, while the other pure-color bands present simply the fusion-color.

IX. A STROBOSCOPE WHICH DEPENDS ON THE SAME PRINCIPLE.

