The guests had arrived plenty early, an' whenever Barbie would stumble on to a bunch of 'em
she would head up an' get right rompy again. We had about a ton o' stuff cooked, 'cause we
was tol'able thoroughly experienced on the neighbors. Folks out our way ain't nowise uppity
about such matters. All you need to do is to hint that a little celebration is goin' to be
pulled off an' you can count on their presence; an' if so be 'at you've forgot anybody's invite,
why like as not they'll hear about it anyway an' be on hand in plenty o' time. The weddin'
was scheduled for Wednesday evenin' at eight thirty; but by Sunday the house was full an' the
grounds looked like an Injun camp-meetin'.

Jabez, intended to give Barbie the full penalty; none o' your squires for him, nothin' but
Friar Tuck, who was one o' these here Episcolopian preachers what sport a full regalia an'
a book o' tactics calculated to meet any complication a human bein' is apt to veer into. Some
say they're just Roman Catholics, gone Republican, an' some say that they're the ones who started
the first strike--I don't know much about it myself.

He hadn't arrived by seven o'clock, but we didn't worry none; he might have had to come fifty
miles, an' he never had any time to waste.

We'd had a sort o' light supper at four o'clock, an' it was intended to have the weddin' feast
after the performance was finished. It was just eight o'clock when Friar Tuck swung off his
pony an' as many of the crowd as could gathered in the big dinin' room an' waited for the words
to be said. Spidier Kelley came an' told me that he had locked the woman in the office, an'
that she was behavin' herself reasonable, so I knew 'at the finish wasn't far off. The tables
an' chairs had been taken out, the intention bein' to dance in the store-room after the ceremony,
an' while the dancin' was goin' on to set the banquet in the dinin' room. Oh, it was all planned
out like a theater show: Jabez had a full orchestra too, three fiddlers, a guitarist, an' a
fifer; an' they began to play solemn music, like they allus do at a wedding. It's a toss-up
which is the most touchin', a weddin' or a funeral,--a feller's takin' a mighty long shot at
either one.

The whole crowd was on edge, but myself was strained to the breakin' point. Just as the old
clock struck the half hour the orchestra pealed forth a march, an' they all came struttin'
in, slow an' stately an' top-heavy, accordin' to the city way. Jabez was in a brand-new suit
o' black store clothes, an' had a mighty proud look on his face; he was wearin' gloves too.
Barbie was a-leanin' on his arm, an' she was wearin' a dress 'at would 'a' made some o' the
queens crane their necks a bit, I reckon. Hawthorn had his nerve with him, an' wore a low-necked
vest an' a droop-tailed coat. I had my own rig like this hid away in the stallion stable; so
it didn't jar me none; but some o' the boys had a hard time chokin' back their grins. It was
the first weddin' I had ever seen where the groom hadn't wore a silk handkerchief around his neck.

They all met in front o' Friar Tuck, who was standin' under a tissha paper bell with about
four miles o' ribbon tied to it. I couldn't see Barbie's face on account o' the veil she was
wearin'; but she held her head high, an' I knew she was ready to take all the jumps without
balkin'. The Friar had one o' these voices 'at never seem to say an idle word, an' the room
got as still as though it was a trial for life; which ain't so mighty far off the mark, that
bein' the usual sentence, an' out our way we don't count it game to get pardoned out for a
new trial.

I was on pins an' needles durin' the openin', but Friar Tuck boomed along until he arrived
at the part where it sez "If any man knows just cause why this here couple should not be joined
together in holy wedlock let him make his kick right now, or forever after hold his peace."
The room was as still as the grave, an' I had just taken a full breath, so that I could make
a clean throw, when a deep voice at the back of the room sez: "I think that I know a cause.
I don't believe the girl is doin' this of her own free will."

We all whirled around, an' there stood Silver Dick. Dusty he was an' travel-stained; but as
he loomed up, straight an' tall, he certainly did look like a man. His beard was gone, his
face was pale with a sort of unnatural whiteness, an' he was ganted down in weight a little;
but all the same he put up a great front as he stood with his hands on his hips, his head thrown
back, an' a grim smile on his face. Quick as a flash the ol' man, who had half expected this,
pulls a gun out of his pocket an' drops it on Dick, while the crowd politely splits apart to
give 'em a fair show. Barbie had settled back, an' I caught her in my arms an' held her a moment;
but all the time my eyes were on Dick as though I'd been charmed.

Never in my life have I seen such a figger of a man as him, as he stood there alone an' unfriended.
His hat was tilted back a bit, an' his short wavey hair rippled across his forehead, his mustache
had been shaved off and his lips somehow reminded me of the muzzle of a gun, they was that
firm; while his eyes--man, he had the greatest eyes in the world. Blue steel they was, but
never for a moment free from some hidden fire. When he smiled they danced; when he frowned
they blazed; but to-night the' was a new darin' in 'em,--a confidence, a purpose, an' a strength
that defied Death himself.

He had changed a heap since we'd seen him last. His face was as smooth as a woman's, his hands
were white, an' his clothes looked like picture clothes out of a book. He didn't speak for
some time, an' then he said: "Is your gun broke, Mr. Judson, or do you think it would be only
the square thing to talk things over first? I think I can interest you. I am not armed; perhaps
you would be more comfortable if you lowered your gun until you were ready to shoot."

The' was a sting in his slow, sarcastic tone, an' a scowl came over Jabez' face; but he lowered
his gun just the same. I didn't want to soften any toward Dick so I had to keep grittin' my
teeth as I watched him, 'cause bluffin' a man like Cast Steel, armed an' ready, was a stirrin'
sight, an' Dick looked as if he had the backin' of an army.

"Mr. Judson," sez Dick, "when I left here your daughter was promised to marry me, an' I promised
to write as often as possible; but after I started in to clean up my record I was denied the
privilege of writin'. I am here now, with my record clean; the' ain't no spot on this earth
where I don't feel free to go--an' now I claim her hand."

"Claim her hand, do ya?" sez Jabez, with a wicked leer. "Well, you allus was better at claimin'
than at gettin'. I don't want to sadden my daughter's weddin' night, but if you ain't minded
to go your way peaceable I'll have to spoil ya."

"Barbie," sez Dick, an' his voice was meller as a flute, "don't ya love me no more?"

She raised her head an' looked at him, but she couldn't speak, so she only nodded her head.

"Will ya marry me?" sez Dick, an' we all waited a long time for the answer.

Once or twice she tried it, before her voice finally got back to her, "Dick," she sez, "I waited
for ya a long time, an' I never heard from you; so I thought 'at you had either forgot me or
else you were--were no longer living; an'--oh, Dick, you have no idee how hard it has been
for me. You can't imagine how often I refused, nor what a lonely life I was forced to live;
but I've never ceased to love you, an' I allus told 'em so. Now I am half married to another
man; an' I don't see what we can do."

"Well, I see what we can do!" blurts out Jabez, raisin' his gun again. "We can go right on
with this ceremony. You have give your word, an' the word of a Judson is bindin'. As for you,
you sneakin' card-sharp, I'll give you just ten to state your intentions."

Jabez started to count slow an' steady with his left forefinger, while he held his gun above
his right shoulder ready for the drop. His face was white an' his eyes blazed like live coals.
The' was no time to waste now; Dick had a card up his sleeve, an' this was his chance to take
the trick, or he'd spoil my own game. The room was so still it hurt you to breathe. Somebody
sneezed, an' it sounded like a boiler explosion.

"Judson," sez Dick, an' he was smilin' now; but it was the chillin' smile I had first seen
durin' the card game. It wasn't a pleasant smile. "Judson, I did not cheat durin' that game,
an' I never did cheat, although gamblin was my business. You have become a fanatic on the subject
o' truth, an' I propose to tell you some. You are a bully; you have bullied this girl in order
to make her consent; and you are a coward, a miserable coward. Any man afraid of his own past
is a coward; and your past stands back of you like a ghost, doggin' your steps awake, an' hauntin'
your dreams 'sleep. You preach the truth; but your entire life is one black--"

"Stop!" yells Jabez, holdin' his hand over his heart, but gettin' the drop on Dick, although
his face looked like the face of a man long dead. "Say another word an' a bullet will drive
it back through your teeth."

"All right," sez Dick, still smilin' his cruel, hard smile; "but you have only counted up to
five, an' you gave me ten. You're surely honest enough to stick to your own agreement. Begin
to count now, while I start the tale about Jack Whitman an' the Creole Belle--"

When Dick mentioned the name o' Jack Whitman both o' Jabez' arms fell to his side; an' when
Dick spoke o' the Creole Belle his legs shut together like a pocket knife; an' he crumpled
down on a little padded bench they had fixed up to kneel on. His face was gray, an' his eyes
had a scum over 'em, while his mouth hung open like the mouth of a man dyin' of old age. Barbie
gave a low, waverin' call: "Oh, what have you done, oh, Dick! Daddy, Daddy; what's the matter Dad?"

She jumped to his side, an' after tearin' off her veil she knelt at his feet; but he drew his
hands feebly away, an' refused to touch her; while a look of sorrow--sorrow an' pain an' shame,
swept across his old gray face, an' his lips trembled so 'at he couldn't talk.

I glanced at Silver Dick; he stood there with his lips set tight, his eyes cold an' hard, an'
I knew 'at he was ready to make his kill, cost what it would.

"Oh, Daddy," pleaded Barbie, "don't look this way. Tell me what it is all about. Don't turn
away from me, Dad; I don't care what it is, or whether it is true or false--I am ready to forgive
you, an' to love you. Look at me. Daddy. I care more for you than for any one else in the whole
world.

"Yes," she sez, standin' up an' flashin' a look into Dick's eyes as fierce as they had ever
shot themselves. "Yes, an' if you think to win me by strikin' down my old Dad, why--we have
both been mistaken, an' I despise you!"

Silver looked as though she had struck him in the face with a whip; the hot blood swept up
to his hair, an' then left him ghastly white again; while she put her hand on the ol' man's
shoulder an' looked like an eagle protectin' her brood. I looked around for Hawthorn, who had
become entirely forgotten. Gee! how I envied him his chance just then; but there he stood,
lookin' like a white rabbit bein' tried for murder. The girl looked at him too, gave him one
long scornful look; then she looked back at Silver, standin' all alone like the statue of a
king; an' then she looked up at me. "Happy," she sez, "you never failed me yet. Clear this
room--clear it of every one but just ourselves."

"Clear the room," I yells. "Come, friends, this is the time to step lively. You can go into
the store-room an' dance if you want to, but the weddin' has been postponed."

They filed out in good order, all except Dick, Friar Tuck, an' Hawthorn. Hawthorn stood leanin'
again the wall, lookin' at Dick as though he was seein' a ghost. I tapped him on the shoulder.
"Git!" I sez, "your number didn't win nothin'." He gives a start, then down on the floor he
flops with his eyes turned in an' his mouth frothin' a little. Friar Tuck straightened him
out an' began to rub his hands; an' I turned to Dick.

"Now, it's your turn to go," I sez. "I'd advise you to go clear to England, where you'll find
good news."

He came toward me as if he didn't see me, an' when he reached me he said: "You better go along
too, Happy. I want to talk to them alone."

"Jim," I said, usin' the old name, "I don't want to do you harm. This game is up; you'd better
go along peaceable."

He looked at me a moment in surprise, an' then his face got haughty, an' he put out his hand
to push me aside. I took him by the arm an' swung him over against the wall. At first he couldn't
seem to understand that I was in ear-nest, an' then his hand shot to hip an' breast; but he
had spoke the truth, he wasn't armed. I had him covered, an' he sneered into my face without
speakin'. I walled over an' examined him, but he didn't have even a knife. I didn't have the
heart to drive him forth like a dog, so I sez, too low for the rest to hear: "Jim, I know the
double life you've been leadin'; but you can't break Barbie's heart. You're a married man,
an' I know it."

"You lie," he sez, clear an' cold. It was just the word I needed.

I crossed the room an' laid my gun on a chair, an' then I turned to him. "We're equal now,"
sez I. "The winner gets the gun."

He wasn't as strong as I was, quite; an' he was some out o' condition; but he had had trainin'
more than me, an' for a few minutes he stood me off; an' then as he struck at me I grabbed
his wrist, his left wrist, with my right hand, shot it in close to his body, an' clamped it
behind his back; while I got his throat with my left. Slowly I brought him to his knees, my
fingers all the time workin' deeper into his throat, while his right kept jabbin' me till it
made me grunt. No one tried to interfere at first; but then he got too weak to strike. Barbie
said sharply, "Happy Hawkins, stop that at once!"

"I'll stop as soon as he promisses to go without further trouble," sez I.

She got up an' came across the room to us like a flash, an' seized the wrist that held Jim's
throat. "Let him alone, Happy," she said fiercely.

I gave him a little push that sent him to the floor, an' then I picked up my gun. Jim rose
to his feet; but the starch was purty well taken out of him, an' of course this touched her
heart, she bein' a woman. "Are you hurt, Dick?" she sez sympathetic. "Yes, I'm hurt," he snaps
back, glarin' at me; "not at what he's done, but at his lies."

"It's no lie," sez I.

"What was it?" asked Barbie--of Jim. He didn't answer for a minute, an' when he did his voice
shook; but he looked into her eyes as he answered: "He said I was married."

Barbie drew away with a sharp gasp an' looked at him in horror; then she looked at me with
her face all drawn up with anguish. "I tried to prepare you for this three weeks ago, Barbie,"
I sez, "an' you--you know what you threw in my face."

"Oh, Happy, Happy," she whispered, "it's not true, it's not true--say it's not true!"

"It is true, Barbie," sez I, an' she gave a scream.

"It is not true," sez Dick, an' she glanced from one to the other.

"I can prove it at once," sez I; "she's here to-night."

"Who?" asked Dick with a start.

"The wife you left in Laramie," sez I.

"Good God, you haven't brought her here, have you!" shouted Dick, an' Barbie a queer, heart-broken
little laugh. "It's true, it's true," she sez. "You have convicted yourself, and it's true.
Happy,"--she went on speakin' to me,--"of all the men I have ever known you are the only one
that has been always true to me. You said that you would never marry me unless I asked you
to--prove to me that this man is already married, an' I'll marry you. I'll get down on my knees
an' beg you to marry me. The world seems full of wolves an' I want a man I can trust."

She was wild, an' the look in her eyes frightened me; but she came over an' put her hand on
my arm, an' said: "Prove it, prove it, an' then let us go away together!"

"She's out in the office," sez I. "Shall I bring her in here?"

"No," sez Dick. "Happy, for heaven's sake don't do anything hasty."

"Bring her in, bring her in at once!" sez Barbie. "This is my wedding-day, an' my father wanted
it to be the talk of the whole state. Bring her in!"

Just as I reached the door it opened, an' the strange woman came in with old Melisse, who was
makin' queer throaty noises like a dog. Her veil was raised, an' I stepped back in surprise.
She was an elderly woman with gray hair, white at the temples, an' dark eyes that rested for
a moment on Dick, for a longer second on Barbie, an' then stopped when they met the starin'
eyes of of Cast Steel, who had staggered to his feet.

He stood there with his hands clutchin' the side of his head, an' his lips movin' rapidly,
but not a sound comin' through 'em, an' then his knees gave way beneath him, an' Friar Tuck
eased him back to the little padded bench. The hands of the strange woman were clasped on her
breast; but even when the rest of us started for Jabez she didn't move.

CHAPTER TWENTY-NINE

THE FINAL RECKONING

It hurts me inside to see anything plumb beaten. I've hunted a lot, an' I'm as keen on the
trail as a terrier dog an' durin the fight I don't have no disturbin shudders; but after I've
won an' I see the light of joy an' hope an' freedom fadin' out of eyes that have been so bright
an' fearless, the' 's allus somethin' 'at swells inside o' my breast an' makes me half sorry
'at all fights can't end in a draw. The' 's one kind of nature which I never yet was able to
figger out, an' that's the nature that can rub it in on a fallen foe.

Poor old Jabez, I'd judged him an' I'd judges him harsh; but when I saw him go to pieces there
on the padded bench I just seemed to go to pieces with him. When I saw the strength leave him
like the steam from an engine as the flood reaches its fire-box; when I saw the hands that
thought they was strong enough to shape the future danglin' between his crooked knees, an'
the eyes that had never before asked mercy lookin' up glazed an' pitiful, why, it felt to me
as if I was just tryin' to send the strength out of my own body into his. Poor ol' Jabez, he
was cast steel to the finish, no spring, just simply rigid an' stiff, till at last he broke.

But runnin' the universe is no job for a human; every man would choose to look his best when
he's to meet the one woman; but if Jabez had still been standin' like a rock an' lookin' out
at the world through eagle-eyes the woman at the door wouldn't never have spoke to him. When
she saw him tired an' broken an' heart-sick of life itself, the mother in her finally tore
out all the wrongs o' the past, an' she crossed the room an' took one of his hands an' said,
"George, you mustn't give up, you mustn't give up now."

Barbie was holdin' his other hand, an' the ol' man looked first from one to the other while
big tears gathered in his open eyes an' rolled slowly down his cheeks. I tell you it was a
touchy sight, an' I was sweatin' like a fish when ol' Friar Tuck tip-toed over an' put one
hand on my shoulder an' the other on Jim's, an' said: "They'll get along better without us,
boys. Let's just step outside till they call us."

Oh, I tell you that Friar Tuck was a sky-pilot for true! We sneaked stealthily to the door,
passin' ol' Melisse on the way. She was huddled up on the floor prayin' in Spanish, an' Friar
Tuck rested his hand on her head a second, an' then we went out into the night air--I can taste
my first breath of it yet.

He went over to see how the crowd was doin' in the storeroom, sayin' that he thought he'd get
some eatin'-things under way to sort of ease the strain--he knew a human all right, the Friar
did. Jim an' I walked out together under the stars, an' I told him my side of it; an' he told
me that he had met Jack Whitman when he was runnin' a gamblin' place close to the New Mexico
line. Whitman ran it on the square an' he had saved Jim a lot o' money one night, an' then
afterwards Jim had helped to stand off a hold-up gang, an' a strong feelin' had grew up between
'em. Whitman had told part of the story, but made out that Barbie's mother was his own sister.
When she had left Jabez an' the child--I don't know, myself, just why she left him. It started
when she found out how he had lied to Whitman an' mighty near killed him; but just all that
happened, before she burned out her brand and skipped, I don't know to this day, but they was
both purty high-headed an' nervy in their youth, an' I've often suspected that Jabez' conscience
didn't get to workin' smooth until after he was left alone with the child on his hands. It
sometimes happens that way.

Well, anyhow, when she had left him she had gone to the southern part of California, where
she'd got a job teachin' school. Whitman had located her, an' when her health gave out he had
sent her money without lettin' her know where it came from. Whitman had follered minin' till
his wife died, an' then he got to speculatin' in stocks, finally gettin' cleaned out full an'
proper, an' then he started to gamblin' in earnest. It was from him that Jim had picked up
most of his idees about business an' gamblin'. When Whitman himself had died he had turned
Barbie's mother over to Jim.

She was livin' on a ranch in northern Colorado at this time, on account of her health. When
Jim got cleaned out by the cattle crowd, an' opened his joint in Laramie, he brought her over
to keep house an' be company for him. He pertended to be the son of a wild uncle she'd had,
an' he fixed up a believable tale to go with it. All the while he'd been at the Diamond Dot
he had supposed that she was Whitman's sister--she went by her maiden name of Miss Garrison,
an' she had never told him her full story, simply hintin' enough at times to let him know that
she had gone through the mill.

He had never pieced things together until I had sent him my letter, an' then he guessed how
it was, an' puttin' what I told him onto what she an' Whitman had told him, he saw it all.
He didn't know what had made her leave Judson, or rather Jordan; but he said he was positive
it was his fault, as she was some the finest woman he had ever met, exceptin' of course her
own daughter.

We talked it all over there in the starlight, until ol' Melisse came an' called us in. I didn't
want to go; I was tryin' to cut myself out of the game entirely an' forget that I even existed;
for the' was a cry in my heart that wouldn't hush, an' I wanted to be alone; but when Jim insisted
I braced up an' went in.

Ol' Jabez looked a heap better, but still shaky; his wife had a tender half sad smile on her
face, while Barbie was radiant with the joy she had waited for so long; she had kept her father,
she had found her mother, an' she was about to meet--her lover. I saw the Sioux Injuns doin'
the dance once, where they tie thongs through their breast muscles an' circle around a pole.
Every now an' again they'd fling back their full weight on the thongs, an' their faces would
light with savage joy. That was the kind of joy I felt when I saw Barbie's face.

Her mother smiled into Jim's eyes when he came in, an' Jabez stood up an' held out his hand.
"Do you want to marry her?" he said.

"That's the only wish I have," sez Jim.

"Then she's yours, an' I thank God she's got a true man," sez Jabez, puttin' Barbie's hand
into Jim's. I turned my face away.

The first thing I knew I felt a hand on my shoulder an' another hand taken' hold of mine. I
turned an' looked down into Barbie's face, but I couldn't bear the light in her eyes. I turned
my face away again--an' my lips were tremblin', the blasted traitors.

But she turned me around until my eyes looked down into hers, an' they were swimmin' in tears.
Her little soft hand clasped my big rough one, tight an' warm, an' her voice was husky as she
whispered, "You--you won't care much, will you, Happy?"

"No, Barbie," I sez between my set teeth, "not much"; an' by God, I smiled.

"An', Happy," she went on, "my home will allus be your home, an' anything that is mine is yours;
but my heart ain't mine, ol' pal; an' so--an' so we can't help it."

"No," I sez, an' I was back in the saddle again this time. "No, little gel, we can't help it;
but we can allus make the best of it; so I vote that we don't disappoint the crowd; but go
on an' have a weddin'."

She backed away from me a little, while her face took the color of a rose, an' her eyes went
to the floor; an' then I turned to Jabez an' said: "Jabez, I've took a mighty sight off you
in my time without ever puttin' up one little squeal; but if you send this gang away to-night
without a weddin', why, I quit you for good."

The' was all so wrought up that I was about the steadiest in the room; an' in about two minutes
I had 'em lined up, an' the crowd back in place an' Friar Tuck in full regimentals under the
tissha paper bell.

Before we could begin, however. Jabez mounted on a chair an' said in a new, soft voice: "Friends,
in all my life I never told but one black lie. I may have spoken falsely through ignorance,
or to spare sorrow to my child; but I never fought through the temptation but once, an' got
whipped by it. I told one black lie, an' it was the blackest one ever told, I reckon. It brought
me my money an' my wife; an' my load of shame an' sin an' contempt--it lost me the best friend
I ever had, an' it led to my losin' my wife for most o' my journey. All my life I've tried
to live down that lie an' to fill every man I met with a reverence for the truth, an' that's
what makes me so blame ashamed of the way I've treated Dick. I ought to have seen quicker'n
anybody else the kind of a fight he was a-makin', an' pitched in an' helped him instead of
findin' him guilty, on the first suspicion, an' tryin' to make his life as sour as mine has
been. But"--here Jabez put his arm about Barbie's shoulder, an' looked down on her a moment--"it
was all on account o' this little girl."

Then we all gave a cheer an' Friar Tuck tied the knot, after which every one opened the sluice-gates
o' their hearts an' let the sociability gush forth in a torrent. I stuck around until the dancin'
began, an' then I flopped myself on a hoss an' rode, an' rode, an' rode. The air was cool an'
crisp as it swept over my face; but it was a long time before it took the fever out of my blood.
Finally I circled back to of Monody's grave an' got off an' sat there till the sun came up,
fresh an' strong. Ol' Monody had taken the burden 'at had been handed to him, an' had borne
it along to a mighty fire finish; an' it made me ashamed of myself, so I got to my feet, gave
myself a shake, an' rode back to the ranch house.

CHAPTER THIRTY

THE AFTERGLOW

I didn't look for anybody to be about that early after the night that outfit had put in; but
just before I reached the corral I saw Barbie an' Jim ridin' slowly toward the stable. They
was ridin' close together an' lookin' into each other's eyes, an' I'm glad to say that even
that soon I felt nothin' but joy in the sight. A little farther on I spied Jabez an' his wife
standin' on a knoll, lookin' at the sunshine, an' before I reached the house I saw two others
swingin' up the trail on a lope. In a minute I made out Bill Hammersly an' Jessamie. For just
one second I did feel a little bit out o' the world; but by the time they rode up I was able
to welcome 'em with a joke.

"We lost our way," sez Bill. "Is it too late?"

"It's never too late," sez I. "But I'm right down sorry that you didn't arrive last evenin'.
We had about as stirrin' a weddin' here as ever you see."

"Who was it that Barbie married?" asked Jessamie.

Just then Jim an' Barbie came around the corner o' the house, an' I sez: "Mr. an' Mrs. Bill
Hammersly, allow me to make you introduced to the Earl o' Clarenden an' his bride."

They was totally devoid of remarks for some time. Jim was the first to speak, an' he seemed
a trifle put out. "What do you mean by such nonsense, Happy?" sez he. Then they all looked
at him on account of him usin' the tone he had. I turned to Barbie an' sez easily: "I was tellin'
Bill down at Frisco about a month ago that I rather doubted if Jim here would take the job;
but if so be that he wants it, it's open for him. If not, that Hawthorn thing has the next chance."

I stepped back a few paces after this an' let 'em talk it out. Jim was the most flabbergasted
of any, Barbie looked a little bit frightened; but Jessamie sez: "If Happy Hawkins sez 'at
you're the Earl of Clarenden, why you might as well give up. He has inside information on every
given subject, an' things don't never happen until he's had his finger in it somewhere." Jessamie
allus was a good feller.

An' that's the way it turned out. Jim an' Barbie went back to Clarenden on their honeymoon,
an' Barbie's taken the lead over there the same as she'd do anywhere. I stayed right at the
Diamond Dot 'cause Jabez didn't seem able to get along without me; an' I hit work harder than
ever. Now I oversee the Diamond Dot, Jim's place down in the Pan Handle, which is full stocked
an' runnin' easy with the ex-governor's backin', an' also the ol' Colonel Scott ranch which
Bill and Jessamie fell heir to.

Jim an' Barbie an' the children come back every summer; Bill an' Jessamie an' their outfit
hop in on me most any time, Ches an' his bunch drop in for a week or so now an' again, an'
if I ever do get lonesome I just sneak my full-dress uniform out o' the hay an' go down to
Frisco for a little easin' off o' the guy-ropes. Oh, I haven't had to petition to congress
to have my name changed; I'm Happy. I'm happier than any human ever had a right to be, an'
life never drags none--at least not in the daytimes. The' 's dozens o' boys named after me,
an' only the recordin' angel knows how many dogs an' ponies. Take it as a big gatherin', an'
if any one yells, "Happy, you rascal, get out o' here," Why the' 's a general stampede.

Barbie's allus extra kind to me, as if she still felt that the' was somethin' left for me to
forgive her; but my goodness, the' ain't a thing. It wasn't her fault--she couldn't never have
loved me--not in the only way I wanted her to. And it ain't my fault--I couldn't help but love
her, an' the' was only one way that I could love her, an' that was world without end. I'm not
sorry I loved her; why, the' ain't nothin' in life I'd take for this love of mine--and it is
mine. The' ain't nothin' can ever take it away from me, the' ain't nothin' can ever put a limit
to it; an' though it has burned in my heart like fire, I reckon the worst it has ever done
was to burn up the natural-born evil I started out with. I ain't mean-hearted nor jealous--I
can't even understand it.

I can easy see how a feller would kill a man for ill-treatin' the woman he loved; but I can't
see how he could marry a girl who didn't love him with all her heart. An' Jim, he's been square.
They're happy, an' I stand afar off watchin' 'em; an' some way when I'm out in the starlight--when
it seems that I ain't lyin' on the earth at all, but floatin' slow an' easy like an eagle restin'
on his wings--I seem to share in their love, an' I don't seem to grow old.

I don't reckon I ever will grow old, 'cause love is--love is--some way MY love is like the
starlight itself; an' the starlight don't scorch an' weaken an' pester like the sun; it soothes
an' softens an' lifts a man up where it's calm an' steady and--and pure.

The longer I live the fonder I grow o' the stars. It don't take as much sleep for me now as
it used to, an' I never was dopey; so the' 's mighty few nights 'at I don't have a little visit
with 'em. I know now 'at they keep whirlin' an' circlin' away up there; but they never deceive
a body. You can allus keep track of 'm, an' when the seasons change an' you can't see 'em for
a while, you know 'at they're tendin' to their duties just the same; an' somehow it kind o'
holds a man to the trail when the trail is gettin' rougher than he thinks he can stand.

I've got a heap o' friends, men an' women of all kinds; an' when they come to me ragin' an'
bitter, I just take 'em out an' show 'em the stars; tell 'em the ones who are about to go on
a long journey, but who will come back again when they're due, an' not a minute late. The'
's something about the stars 'at allus seems to take the wickedness out of a human. I've had
'em come to me--men an' women both--with murder in their hearts; but after we've visited a
while with the stars they either sigh or sob--but they allus go away clean an' rested.

It's a funny notion; but sometimes I feet like as if I'd like to be a star myself; away up
above the worry an' selfishness of the world, an' helpin' to bring peace an content to those
who look up to me. It's a funny notion--especially for a feller what's follered the trail I have.

Me an' the preachers lock horns purty often; but they're all right, most of 'em, when you treat
'em like humans an' make 'em play fair. One of 'em happened out here on a visit, to sort o'
rest up, an' he called me some kind of a Persian name an' read me a little book called The
Other Wise Man. I reckon I know that book, all except the big names, by heart; an' if one of
my stars would ever cut out o' the herd an' go off, slow an' stately on a new trail, why I'd
foller that star--God knows I'd foller; an'--I wouldn't let on to no one else except you--but,
way down, deep in my heart, I'm hopin' that sometime I'll get the chance.