Outside--or rather up above--a cold drizzle adds to the general discomfort, "pineapples" drop
promiscuously about, but one can hear them coming, save when barrages are about, and the roar
of gun and bursting shell drowns all else.  One nearly got me this morning.  I just ducked
in time as it burst on the parapet behind where I was standing--a splinter caught my tin hat,
but bounded off.  In spite of all, this has been a cheery day.  One learns to laugh at Fritz's
efforts to kill one, and at the appalling waste of money he spends in misplaced shells; one
laughs still more when they fall in his own lines from his own guns, and frantic cries of distress
and protest, in the form of colored rockets, fill the air.  LIFE, even with all its letters
capitals, has its humors.  Dire rumors of the postponement of our longed-for rest--but what
is rumor, after all?

Half of another weary night has passed.  I took a morning in bed (five hours, only disturbed
twice) and so raised my sleep average to nearly four hours a day.

How unreal it seems to be writing with a loaded revolver by one's paper, and a respirator on
one's chest.  I bet the Huns are sorry that they ever invented gas.  You make too much of what
I did on Monday, it was nothing wonderful, and had I had time to think, I should probably have
funked it.  Instinct and training and the excitement of the moment--that is all, just my duty.
I did see a brave act that morning, and one that required real pluck, not excitement.  I must
see a specialist about the injury as soon as I can get an appointment.  Still smiling.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

A long wooden box five feet by three feet "in the cold, dark underground."  Here we move and
sleep and have our being, under one of the famous battlefields of Europe, a captured German
dugout, with German shells bumping on the roof from time to time.  Had I but the ability I
could paint you a word-picture that might bring to you the wonder of last night's events in
their grandeur and their grimness.  As it is I must do what little I can.

A long straying column along a road as darkness fell; turning westward one saw the splendor
of a blood-red sunset where the crimson melted to gold, the gold to green, so often called
blue.  Against this the silhouetted outlines of slag-heaps and pits and houses, now ruined,
now whole.  By the roadside little huts some three feet square built by their owners, who gathered
around little blazing fires now that their day's work was done.  The low drone of homing planes
filled the air as one by one they swooped down to earth, or rose on some perilous mission,
while bursting shrapnel added golden balls of fire to the firmament of heaven, now a deep,
deep blue.  To north, to east, to south, yellow-green flashes of guns stabbed the darkness,
and the redder glare of bursting shells came ever and anon.  Across an open heath, along a
road pitted with shell-holes to the skeleton of a shell-smashed town like some ghostly sentinel
to the gates of war. Here the sweet smell of a September evening was every now and then rendered
hideous by pungent odors through the dead town, where the smell of gas still clung to houses
and issued up from cellars.  Now trenches lay along the road, and the golden harvest moon turned
to silver and flooded the scene, casting long, strange shadows on the ground.  A deepening
roar, followed by the whizzing scream of shells as hidden batteries poured death into the German
lines.  A whistle, a roar, a thud, a sudden check, and on as a couple of shells spattered the
road ahead.  "Halt, off-load the limbers"--on to a crater where our guides awaited us.  Here
the chalk molds and craters of the shattered German lines along which we walked looked like
miniature snow-clad mountains in the moonlight.  Destruction everywhere, but a destruction
that was grand while it was dreadful.  And so to dug-outs, and the night-time "hate" and gas--a
doze, and the wonderful dawn of a perfect daybreak.  Exploration of trenches, broken by pauses
to look at aërial combats far up in the blue, where planes looked like bits of silver dust
whirled about by the breeze.  Interest covered and crushed every other emotion, and though
many of the things that lie about seem loathsome in cold-blooded language, I found nothing
of loathing there. Now a human skull with matted ginger hair, but with the top bashed in, now
a hand or arm sticking up from some badly-buried body or shell-smashed grave, and everywhere
the appalling waste of war--spades, shovels, German clothes, armor, ammunition scattered in
a chaos beyond words.

Crash! bang! boom! and like rabbits to earth once more; we have been spotted, and whiz-bangs
fall--a dozen wasted German shells.

Packed like sardines we lie and try to snatch some moments' sleep. With revolvers by our sides,
and respirators on our chests, we live in the perpetual night of underground, coming to the
surface to work or see a little of God's sunshine or explore, as shells permit and the spirit
moves us.  Time as a measure has ceased to be and our watches serve just as checks on our movements.
I love life, and oh, how I hate it too!

G. B. MANWARING.

  A CAROL FROM FLANDERS

  1914

  In Flanders on the Christmas morn
    The trenchéd foemen lay,
  The German and the Briton born--
    And it was Christmas Day.

  The red sun rose on fields accurst,
    The gray fog fled away;
  But neither cared to fire the first,
    For it was Christmas Day.

  They called from each to each across
    The hideous disarray
  (For terrible had been their loss):
    "O, this is Christmas Day!"

  Their rifles all they set aside,
    One impulse to obey;
  'Twas just the men on either side,
    Just men--and Christmas Day.

  They dug the graves for all their dead
    And over them did pray;
  And Englishman and German said:
    "How strange a Christmas Day!"

  Between the trenches then they met,
    Shook hands, and e'en did play
  At games on which their hearts are set
    On happy Christmas Day.

  Not all the Emperors and Kings,
    Financiers, and they
  Who rule us could prevent these things
    For it was Christmas Day.

  O ye who read this truthful rime
    From Flanders, kneel and say:
  God speed the time when every day
    Shall be as Christmas Day.

  FREDERICK NIVEN.

THE MINER AND THE TIGER

On an October day in 1866, David Lloyd George, then a little lad of three years, came with
his mother and younger brother to live with his uncle, Richard Lloyd, for his father had died
leaving the family penniless.  His uncle, a shoemaker and preacher, was educated though poor.
In the picturesque little village of Llanystumdwy on the coast of Wales, Lloyd George grew
up,--a leader among his mates, not only in his studies but in mischief as well.  He was a good
thinker and liked to debate with his uncle, and to be in his uncle's shop in the evening when
the men of the village gathered to talk over questions of business and politics.  As he grew
older, he took part in their conversation and was acknowledged by them to have a good mind.

When he had finished his ordinary schooling, after which most boys were put to work, his mother
and his uncle agreed that the lad ought to receive a good education; that such a capable boy
should not all his life be obliged to work by the day at farming.  But his mother was penniless,
and his uncle had only a few hundred pounds which he had saved to care for himself in his old
age.  But, though he was often stern with the boy, he loved him, and decided to spend all that
he had for his education.  He could not know then that he was helping a boy who would be the
greatest man in England at a later day.

Eagerly Lloyd George entered upon his work at the university, studying especially the subject
of law.  At graduation time, funds were too low to pay for the official robe which was accustomed
to be worn in the profession.  But Lloyd George left college and worked in an office until
he had acquired the needed sum.  Then he went back home and opened a law office.

He knew that his home people needed his help, for they were farmers who were continually being
taxed or having portions of their land taken from them unjustly by the rich landowners.  He
knew, too, that the laborers in the Welsh mining districts were unfairly treated.  Lloyd George
undoubtedly had heard the men talk over their troubles in his uncle's shop.  Now he was prepared
to defend them, and soon had many clients, for they learned that he could not only sympathize
with them, but could plead their cases well.  Because he so strongly championed the rights
of the miners, and because he himself lived for so long in the mining district, Lloyd George
came to be called "The Miner."

More and more, renowned lawyers of the country began to hear of him. He carried cases to the
high court of London where he won great admiration.  Always he fought for the poor and downtrodden
people.  He began to speak everywhere--on street corners, in the market places, and in public
buildings, with such feeling and force that even those who opposed him admired him.  They liked
his quick wit and good humor, and his honest, direct way of looking at things.

In the year 1890 he obtained a seat in the House of Commons.  His reputation grew, as through
one act after another he sought to make life easier and fairer for the nation's poor.  His
advance, step by step, to higher seats in the government was met with constant opposition from
the rich lords and magistrates.  But there was in him an almost unbelievable power for overcoming
all obstacles.  He was keen to see what was the right thing to be done, then went straight
after it, making a new way, if necessary,--breaking down all barriers by means of his own wonderfully
skillful schemes.  Thus his policy came to be known as one of "make or break."  Often the men
who opposed him most bitterly at first were afterward his stanchest friends and supporters.
No other premier, elected at the beginning of the World War, succeeded in holding the position
until the end.

He served in many capacities, proving invaluable in all.  It became natural for officials or
people anywhere, having difficult problems at hand, to send for Lloyd George to settle them.
Once 200,000 miners of Wales struck and refused to work again until certain conditions were
granted by their employers.  Lloyd George had really nothing to do with the case.  But the
labor officials spent a long time trying to arrive at some agreement, and failed completely.
At last they sent for Lloyd George to assist them.  He traveled down from London to the miners'
camp and in one day reached a settlement and left the men in good humor back at their work again.

He was impatient at delay and slowness of action.  So when the British soldiers went into the
trenches to fight, he determined that they should have as many and as good guns and shells
as the enemy.  He decided that the government should have all the money it needed to back the
great war; for building ships, airplanes, and countless other necessities.

With his characteristic straightforward manner, he brought the problems before the people,
and thrilled and stirred them mightily by his powerful, searching speeches.  He thus secured
all that was desired. At the close of the war, he was the chief power in England and whatever
he willed was done.

Yet Lloyd George was a warm-hearted Welshman who loved the people. Even in war time, he was
a jovial, home-loving man.  At the royal house, at 11 Downing Street, he lived in sweet companionship
with his wife and two daughters, Olwen and Megan--one a young lady, the other a little girl
of twelve years.  His two sons fought in France.  Nor did he forget his aged uncle now past
ninety, who staked all that he had for the boy's education.  As Premier of England, Lloyd George
gladly welcomed him to his royal home.  No other name in the past few years, save that of President
Wilson, has been so often and so affectionately upon the lips of people in every land as has
the name of David Lloyd George.  He is a hero worthy of any boy's admiration and emulation.
He has made some glorious pages in English history.  At the peace table, in all his kindliness
and power, he determined to see justice meted out to poor, unfortunate people in all lands.

Georges Clemenceau, Premier of France, is another who stands for justice and liberty.  He has
upheld these virtues with such fierce determination that he has come to be known in France
as the "Old Tiger."

His father in the days of Napoleon III was a leader of the revolution and aided in the attempts
to establish a republic in place of the kingdom.  He was thrown into prison, but his son, Georges
Clemenceau, became an even greater worker in the cause of freedom.  As a young man he, too,
was cast into prison because in the midst of an imperial celebration, he shouted on the streets
of Paris "Vive la République." After he was released, he realized that he would be treated
practically as an exile, and so he came to America.  Here for a few years he was instructor
in French in a school for girls.  After marrying one of his students, he returned with her
to France.

Through his writings and speeches, he became widely known in Paris for his democratic ideas
upon all public questions.  At one time a young military officer, Captain Dreyfus, was about
to be condemned for high treason.  Clemenceau believed him innocent, and proved that the trial
was unjust.  By his newspaper editorials, he so aroused the people of Paris--those of society
as well as the working classes and university students--that a new trial was finally secured
for the prisoner.  The whole nation was interested in the Dreyfus case, and the youth of France
especially hailed Clemenceau as a leader of justice.

He was first made premier in 1906, at the age of sixty-six.  He served for three years and
then again retired to private life.  Often his voice alone was raised in objection to laws
or regulations which to him seemed unfair.  Even when no one shared his ideas, however, he
forced the government and the people to listen to him, such a keen and stirring debater was
he.  For years he continued, as an editor of a newspaper, to struggle for justice for the common
people.  So unpopular was the "Old Tiger" with his cries of freedom for all, that he had to
"tear and claw and bite" his way into society and to power in the government.

When the World War came, his daily paper, the Free Man, told the dangers and weaknesses of
the government war measures.  Like Lloyd George in England, he dared to propose new and gigantic
means for winning the victory.  He wrote much to keep high the courage of the French soldiers
and the people, defending the just and righteous cause of their country.  It is said that in
the first three years of the war, he wrote over a thousand such editorials.

Then came the great crisis, when the Huns were planning a final drive that should win them
the victory.  Some one must be chosen who should be able to prepare the armies to strike hard
at the enemy.  Clemenceau was the man chosen.  On October 17, 1917, he was once more made Premier
of France, though he was now seventy-eight years old.  But his eyes flashed keener, and his
mind was more clever and daring than ever in his youth.  The man who even in the titles of
his newspapers,--Labor, Justice, Dawn, the Free Man,--had for years been shouting for liberty,
now had a share in the command of the forces of the Allies which were to win the fierce struggle
for democracy.

In the spring of 1918, when the French feared that they must lose the war, it was Clemenceau
who cheered them and urged them on and on in their efforts to win, until at length he gave
them the most cheering message of all, "Hold the line, for America comes!"

Overcoming all obstacles, he led the nation to victory.  Down into the trenches he went, risking
his life in the very front lines, that he might go among his soldiers to cheer them, and to
let them know that he did not send his men where he would not go himself.

His behavior toward his would-be assassin, on February 19, 1919, was in itself a striking example
of his daring, fighting spirit.  As he rode home in his car from the Peace Conference, a man
aimed and fired at him.  Instantly Premier Clemenceau pushed open the door of his car, and,
while the man continued firing, sprang upon him and grappled with him until the police reached
the spot and seized the offender.  Five bullets had been shot, only one of which lodged itself
in the "Old Tiger's" shoulder, and did no great harm.

Even those who opposed Clemenceau's political policies, strongly denounced the attempt upon
his life, which had been made by a supposed Russian socialist.  Thus this keen, jovial, loyal
defender of liberty has come into the love of all his people.

An unnamed poilu sent Premier Clemenceau his Croix de Guerre, with the following letter:--

"You have not been given the Croix de Guerre.  Here is mine, bearing only two stars.  You merit
two palms."

Clemenceau is reported to have wept when he read the letter.

It gave him untold pleasure to serve as the nation's host during the visit of President Wilson--with
whom, as representative of the great republic of the United States, he should further help
to establish freedom throughout the world.

THE LOST BATTALION

On December 24, 1918, Lieutenant Colonel Charles W. Whittlesey of Pittsfield, Massachusetts,
was presented in the presence of 20,000 people on Boston Common by Major General Edwards with
the congressional Medal of Honor, the highest tribute of valor the United States awards.

General Edwards presented the medal with these words: "Your heroic act thrilled the entire
American Expeditionary Force.  It was a piece of stout-hearted work that reflected credit upon
the part of yourself and of the men who were serving under you.  It sustained the best traditions
of American arms and valor.  It is a great pleasure to have the presentation assigned to me;
I regard it as a sacred duty."

Lieutenant Colonel Whittlesey smiled, and straightening up to his full stature of six feet
and four inches, simply said, "I thank you, General."

The medal was given to reward his courage and determination when with his "lost battalion"
he was surrounded by the Germans in the Argonne forest.

On the fourth day of suffering in the cold and rain without food or blankets, when their ammunition
was almost gone, an American who had been taken prisoner by the Germans was sent to Major Whittlesey--his
promotion to Lieutenant Colonel came later--with a written message saying, "Americans, you
are surrounded on all sides.  Surrender in the name of humanity.  You will be well treated."

Major Whittlesey's exclamation when he had read the message was very brief and very forceful.
It made the Germans understand without further parley that the Americans would never surrender.
Major Whittlesey's men cheered his reply.  Not one of them, cold, hungry, and almost exhausted,
thought for a moment of surrendering.

Several days before on the morning of September 26, they had entered the Argonne forest, as
a part of the line of American attack.  At five-thirty in the morning, they had gone "over
the top" in a very heavy fog and behind their creeping barrage toward the German trenches.
They had to force their passage through trees, shrubs, vines, and undergrowth grown all together
so that it was almost impossible to advance and yet keep in touch with one another as they
were ordered to do.

They reached the first German trenches which were named the Ludwig. The Huns named their trenches
so as to identify them readily in orders and upon the maps.  These trenches were empty and
they went on to a row of fancy concrete and iron dugouts, called by the Germans Karlsruhe,
where they made their headquarters for the night.

The next day they met stubborn resistance from artillery and nests of machine guns, but they
were able to make progress.  In the first mile they passed over twelve abandoned trench systems.

As they went forward they left men behind at regular intervals to keep them in touch with the
regimental headquarters.  Along this line of men, stationed near enough together to communicate
easily with each other, orders, ammunition, and rations could be passed.

The Germans knew their plan and as the battalion in the next days gradually got ahead of the
main American line and out of touch with it on the flanks, the Huns pushed through, killed
part of the men on the line of communication, and surrounded it, placing machine-gun nests
in the rear.

When Major Whittlesey discovered their predicament, he directed his adjutant, Lieutenant Arthur
McKeogh, with two men to make an attempt to get back to regimental headquarters and inform
the colonel of the situation.  Lieutenant McKeogh has told the story of his success.  It is
intensely exciting and makes one shiver at the horror of men, who have no personal enmity but
might be friends, killing one another, and also makes one thrill with pride and admiration
for the courage that dares even to death--not the quick death of the glorious charge, but the
slow death of thirst, exhaustion, and fatigue.  It shows us the worst and the best of war,
and that the worst is too great a price to pay for the best.  Lieutenant McKeogh writes in
an article in Collier's:--

I took Munson and Herschowitz, and on hands and knees, with drawn revolvers, we began a detour
of the nests.  I was keeping my direction by compass every foot of the way.  We had been going
a scant ten minutes when shots from a light Maxim and rifles broke out in front.  I thought
we had been spotted, but after a wait, when we started again, we crawled within a few feet
of the real target, now lifeless; he was in khaki and apparently he had strayed from his outfit.
During our wait we saw a boche passing through the trees.  From the crackling of the brush
there seemed to be others.  With my lips I made the words "Don't fire" to my runners, and then
covered him, in case he saw us. He went by.  Realizing that we might have something of a time
of it getting through, I motioned the runners to my side, read the messages to them in whispers
and had them repeat.  Then scooping out a little hole in the sodden leaves under my chin, I
buried the messages, with several others from my map case, in fine pieces.  Next I impressed
upon them that our mission was not to fight unless forced to it, but to get back to the regiment,
all of us, if possible; one, certainly. Consequently we would separate when it became necessary.

Half an hour's traveling brought us to a broad clearing, cleaving the forest as far as I could
see, on a true north-south line.  Our direction was south, and the trail down the center of
the clearing meant real progress, although I knew trails to be dangerous.  We were not long
upon it, when suddenly, out of a side trail, two German officers appeared, fifty yards ahead.

The one in advance shouted something with "Kamerad" in it.  But at the same time he was leveling
his pistol at me, and I needed no interpreter.

We darted off the trail behind a bush at its edge.  The boches fired into the bush as they
came.  We stretched out and waited.  In front of me a bough ran low and parallel to the ground;
upon it I rested my pistol, directing it upon the trail through the thin leaves underneath.

Presently Herr Offizier came creeping along, bent to the waist and peering through the bush.
We looked squarely into each other's eyes as we fired, less than ten feet separating us.  Being
settled and ready for him, my gun had about a second the better of his.  I aimed at his mouth,
allowing for the rise of the bullet from the "kick."  As he fired I actually felt the concussion
against my face, we were so close; then a hot, sharp pain in my right forearm, as if some one
had suddenly pushed a white-hot knife blade along under the elbow when I hadn't been looking.

Munson and Herschowitz fired too, and there seemed to be shots from the second boche.  My own
particular duelist dropped back limp after my first shot, although I got off four in quick
succession.

Now we made for the thick of the woods.  My resolution was to stick to them though they should
be thick as fish glue.  Under good cover Munson dressed my wound.  My fingers had begun stiffening
up a bit, and I worked them to keep the trigger finger in good trim, thinking at the time what
a ludicrous shot I'd be with the left hand.  A thought for soldiers in training: Are you ambidextrous?
I've never fired a shot with the left.

The wound itself was a puzzler.  Almost at once the arm swelled until it seemed that a duck
egg had been inserted under the flesh.  But, feeling around it, there was no hard substance
beneath.  The sleeve showed two holes within three inches of each other where the cartridge
had gone in and out.  What probably happened was that my shot had diverted his aim and his
bullet had passed under my crooked elbow and armpit, merely searing the forearm in a caressing
sort of way.  The blood was negligible.  Altogether, it was a "cushy blighty," as the Tommy
puts it.  We reloaded our revolvers to wait for nightfall.  There was a bit of stale bread
in the bottom of my gas mask, forgotten until now.  I split it into three parts, about two
mouthfuls for each, and dug out some half-soaked cigarettes.

"We'll have a smoke, Jack" (military rank is forgotten sometimes), "if it's the last," I said,
and he agreed with a wan sort of smile. Herschowitz whispered that he didn't smoke, and dropped
asleep as the words left his mouth.

None of us had water.  And we were very thirsty.  The boys had white, sticky saliva in the
corners of their mouths, and, from the feel of mine, I knew that I had too.

To the inevitable monody of machine guns, we dozed until dusk came. Then with compass and revolver,
one in each hand, I started again upon the eternal crawl.  My arm had grown in circumference
until the sleeve was tight upon it.  Crawling added nothing to its comfort, for to do the crawfish
stroke the elbows are pushed out ahead and upon them as anchors the rest of the body is then
drawn up.  As yet it was not necessary to go so carefully.  But when, after hours, we came
to a clearing as grateful as I was for the chance of unhampered movement, I dropped to hands
and knees.  Ten minutes of thus shinning passed without event.  Then suddenly a boche voice
called out, a little to our front: "Bist du Deutsch?"  That much German I understood.  We flattened.
As it happened, we were at the foot of a tree at the base of which grew brush.  We lay motionless.
Again the voice, with its demand in intonation.

Then the bolt of a rifle clicked clearly and the owner of the voice fired.  The flash was clear
against the night.  From the right and left of the flash, and close to it, came other flashes.
The bullets whined harmlessly above us.

Was this a small, mobile party?  If so, they would be slinking about. But during half an hour
of their intermittent firing the position of the flashes never changed.  That looked like funk
holes!  And if it was a case of funk holes, by all the nasty little elves of tough luck, we
had stumbled right into a German position!

By watching the direction of the flashes I tried to determine their front.  Cupping my hand
over the radio-lighted dial of my compass, I studied it in connection with their bursts of
fire.  They seemed to be firing north.  But north was our own battalion front, and theirs,
according to the military logic of things, south, unless--unless they had swung in from our
flank behind us and had dug in facing our rear!

No amount of juggling of the compass could satisfactorily account for the position of those
bodies.  So I settled down to waiting tactics. Clearly, it's wise to let your enemy think you
have moved off while he is most on the alert for your movement.  After that he relaxes vigilance,
and you stand a better chance of getting away without foreign substances under the skin.

I whispered--oh, very softly--that we would stay here for some time. Possibly an hour.  And
then I fell asleep!

Munson woke me by gently pounding on my thigh.  I don't remember the time.  Must have been
around midnight.  The funk holes were quiet now, and we wormed away in a new direction without
drawing fire.  I recollect seeing the shiny hobnails and the horseshoe of steel on the runners'
boots as I crawled back past them to take the lead.  I wondered at what distance they were visible.

Occasionally my helmet would come afoul of a vine or small branch; and then like cathedral
bells to my overstrained ears the edge of the helmet would make a little ringing sound.  I
berated myself for ever having removed its burlap camouflage, though it gathered all the sand
in the world to deposit in my hair.

Once I heard Munson struggling to restrain a cough.  We froze to the ground while he sputtered
as softly as he could.  And I was to know later what mental as well as physical torture the
sensation is.  For hours it seemed, painstakingly, inch by inch, we wormed our way out of those
funk holes.  Out, as I thought.  But it was deeper into them that we went!

I was congratulating myself on leaving the hotbed, as I headed for a bush, when, just at the
fringe of it, and almost out of its very leaves, came another demand in German.

This was a moment for quick action.  It was time for the message to go back by three individuals
on different routes.  I heard the safety lock of a rifle snapped back.  He would fire the next
minute.  Springing up, I shouted: "Separate!" to the boys, and ran as fast as I could, helter-skelter
down the side of a gradual slope.  I was making no effort at stooping now.  Speed was my salvation,
if anything was.

Rifles barked all around.  For a moment or two I heard the runners crashing through the brush.
Several shots hummed past me, but I was too preoccupied to notice them much.  I knew I'd have
to get cover soon--before they saw and dropped me.  Just ahead, in dark outline, I spotted
what seemed to be a providential bit of cover.  I made for it full tilt, the sloping ground
quickening my pace.

I hurled myself at it, legs first and spread apart, so as to land in a sitting position.  It
was so that I did land--right astride the shoulders of a boche.  I had selected a German funk
hole for cover!

As I landed, a second boche who like the first had been squatted down rose to his feet, slowly,
it seemed, alongside me.  We were both bereft of speech from the surprise; the fellow under
me was incapable of locomotion as well, for while I felt him squirm a bit he stayed put.

My mind was racing like an overfed gas engine.

"What," I thought, "is the convention when one tumbles in upon a pair of Fritzes without the
formality of being announced?"

I knew I had to gain time until the muscular paralysis from the surprise had passed.  Subconsciously
I must have been thinking that if only I could speak to him in his native tongue he might believe
for the moment that I was one of his own.

I cudgeled my brain for a German expression.  Then I remembered a masseuse, a very German woman,
who has called at my home for years to dress my sister's hair.  What was it she used to say
so much?  What was it?  Ah, I knew!

"Was ist los?" I said triumphantly to my vis-a-vis as he rose to his feet.

Amusingly enough, I didn't actually know at the time that it meant "What's the matter?"  I
had an idea it was a liberal translation of "Who's looney now?"  And that seemed pat enough
for the occasion.

"Was ist los?" Fritz repeated with a strong, rising inflection on the "los."  And at that he
drew his overcoat, which apparently had been thrown across his shoulders, high above his head
and down over it, as if he were cold.  I can see the silhouette of that coat against the stars
now.  Of course I could have been in the hole no longer than fifteen seconds, but it seemed
hours, and every move is deep limned upon my memory.

As he lowered the coat, his hands holding the collar at his cheeks, my wits became somewhat
normal again.  "You idiot!" I said to myself. "You've got a revolver in your right hand."

Sharply I brought the muzzle against his left breast and fired twice. Then, crooking my elbow,
I reached down, sunk the muzzle into the back of the man under me, and again fired twice. 
I recall spreading my legs for fear of injuring myself.  His body crumpled under me.

The first one had fallen backward, supported by the side of the funk hole.  His hands seemed
to be reaching blindly for something in his belt now.  Both their rifles lay extended over
the little parapet.  He might be trying to get at his trench knife.  So I fired again, and
without waiting to see the effect of the shot, sprang up and ran wildly down the slope.

My breath was coming in gasps.  I thought it was all up, for the whole camp--a bivouac of a
company it surely was--went into an uproar of shouts and shots and flashes.

"Amerikaner!" I heard several times.

I don't know how far I ran.  Not far.  For I was expecting to be hit at any moment.  Again
I found a low-growing bush.  And again half-anticipating finding myself with the enemy, I sprawled
in under it.  My breath was burning my throat.  I was horribly thirsty.  And my heart was pounding
like a pile driver--and every bit as loud.

Little by little I squirmed in under the branches.  Voices came from half a dozen directions.
Some were drawing toward me.  About fifteen yards to my right front, shots came steadily from
what I knew to be another funk hole.  I thought of the shiny hobnails on the runners' boots,
and drew my legs up closer.  My watch gleamed like a group of flares, and I twisted its face
to the under side of my wrist.

The voices were very close now.  It seemed to be a little party, beating the bushes for me.
I saw one fellow's head and shoulders against the sky line.  My first thought was of my gun.
I knew there was but a single cartridge left.  Softly I opened the clips on my cartridge pouch
and reloaded.

I didn't like lying face down.  It was too inviting to a shot in the back.  I wanted to roll
over and be prepared when they came upon me, to sit up into some sort of firing position. 
But my white face (and I'll wager it was unwontedly white!) might show up in the dark.  So
I clawed my fingers into the ground in the hope that I could apply some camouflage in the form
of mud.  But mud is perverse; it lies yards deep when you don't want it, and is miles away
when you do.  The ground was wet enough from the rains--so was I, for that matter!--but with
spongy, dead leaves.  I tried smearing some over the backs of my hands, but when I extended
one to get the effect it was as lily-white as milady's; whereat I hastily tucked it back under
my gas mask, worn at the "alert" upon my chest.

The searchers, meantime, were snaking around among the bushes.  Their conversation was as audible
as it was meaningless to me--now to my left, next close up, then withdrawing to my right.

All this time the "li'l .45" was ready if they got so near that discovery would be inevitable.
I hadn't given up hope by any means, but I did let myself picture several boches taking my
maps and message books (one of them full of carbon copies) into some dugout.  Such odd little
thoughts as how long it would take them to find a boche who could read English occurred to
me.  And from that I was whisked back to a Forty-second Street barber whose English was excellent
and who had told me of his service in the German army.  Many such reservists must have returned
to the Fatherland.  I wondered, too, if, in the anticipated exchange of shots, having wounded
me, they would kill me outright in reprisal for my killing their two comrades.

Oh, it was a cheerful line of speculation!  I was deep in it when, above the regular shots
of the fellow in the funk hole nearest me, came a rattle of pistol explosions some distance
away.  "One of the runners," I thought.  "Hope he was as lucky as I."  Munson told me later
that he had run into a boche near a railway track and had dropped him.

The chap in the near-by funk hole began to amuse me now.  He kept up his shots at fifteen-second
intervals for half an hour.  I'm inclined to believe those Jerries were more frightened than
we.  May have thought it was a surprise attack in force.  This fellow, for instance, was firing,
I knew, at nothing in the world but atmosphere.  And in his own mind he may have been bumping
off a lot of Yanks lying in wait for the word to charge at his front--wherever in blazes his
front was!

I got to feeling rather snug about the nervousness of this outfit.  And pride cometh also before
a cough.  After three days of intermittent rain, without overcoat, I had acquired a cold. 
And now my throat tickled and my nose itched, and I was headed straight for a healthy bark.
I sunk my teeth around my forearm--the good one--and let go.  It was pretty well smothered
and attracted no attention, for the fellow with all the superfluous ammunition remained quiet.

Seemingly secure from discovery, I was in no great rush to decide on future plans.  But some
sort of campaign had to be laid out, for dawn was not many hours away.  I think it was about
two-thirty, and before light I had to be out of those environs, if ever I was to get out. 
But at the moment it would have been suicidal to move.  The night had become so quiet that
I hardly dared raise my head for fear the edge of the helmet would scrape against something.
Once, when my head dropped from sleepiness, the helmet brought up against the muzzle of my
gun. It sounded like the crack of Doomsday to me.

I studied my compass to prevent drowsing.  I was satisfied that whatever way I crawled--farther
away from or closer to more funk holes--it would be a matter of pure guesswork, so I determined
to hit out south when move I did.  The sky was sown with stars.  As I looked at them I thought
of all the untroubled people they were shining upon; saw the theatre crowds on Broadway.  "Old
stars," I thought, "I wonder if ever I'll see you again."  And then smiled at myself for finding
time to wax sentimental when practical matters should be engaging me! Next I deplored my luck
that there should be stars at all on this night.  Wind and rain were what I wanted.  Under
their cover I stood a fair chance at weaseling off.

