The Italian criminal and his American offspring have a sincere contempt for American criminal
law. They are used by experience or tradition to arbitrary police methods and prosecutions
unhampered by Anglo-Saxon rules of evidence. When the Italian crook is actually brought to
the bar of justice at home, that he will "go" is generally a foregone conclusion. There need
be no complainant in Italy. The government is the whole thing there. But, in America, if the
criminal can "reach" the complaining witness or "call him off" he has nothing to worry about.
This he knows he can easily do through the terror of the Camorra. And thus he knows that the
chances he takes are comparatively small, including that of conviction if he is ever tried
by a jury of his American peers, who are loath to find a man guilty whose language and motives
they are unable to understand. All this the young Camorrist is perfectly aware of and gambles on.

One of the unique phenomena of the Mala Vita in America is the class of Italians who are known
as "men of honor." These are native Italians who have been convicted of crime in their own
country and have either made their escape or served their terms. Some of these may have been
counterfeiters at home. They come to America either as stokers, sailors, stewards, or stowaways,
and, while they can not get passports, it is surprising how lax the authorities are in permitting
their escape. The spirit of the Italian law is willing enough, but its fleshly enforcement
is curiously weak. Those who have money enough manage to reach France or Holland and come over
first or second-class. The main fact is that they get here--law or no law. Once they arrive
in America, they realize their opportunities and actually start in to turn over a new leaf.
They work hard; they become honest. They may have been Camorrists or Mafiusi at home, but they
are so no longer. They are "on the level," and stay so; only--they are "men of honor." And
what is the meaning of that? Simply that they keep their mouths, eyes, and ears shut so far
as the Mala Vita is concerned. They are not against it. They might even assist it passively.
Many of these erstwhile criminals pay through the nose for respectability--the Camorrist after
his kind, the Mafius' after his kind. Sometimes the banker who is paying to a Camorrist is
blackmailed by a Mafius'. He straightway complains to his own bad man, who goes to the "butter-in"
and says in effect: "Here! What are you doing? Don't you know So-and-So is under my protection?"

"Oh!" answers the Mafius'. "Is he? Well, if that is so, I'll leave him alone--as long as he
is paying for protection by somebody."

The reader will observe how the silence of "the man of honor" is not remotely associated with
the Omerta. As a rule, however, the "men of honor" form a privileged and negatively righteous
class, and are let strictly alone by virtue of their evil past.

The number of south Italians who now occupy positions of respectability in New York and who
have criminal records on the other side would astound even their compatriots. Even several
well-known business men, bankers, journalists, and others have been convicted of something
or other in Italy. Occasionally they have been sent to jail; more often they have been convicted
in their absence--condannati in contumacia--and dare not return to their native land. Sometimes
the offences have been serious, others have been merely technical. At least one popular Italian
banker in New York has been convicted of murder--but the matter was arranged at home so that
he treats it in a humourous vein. Two other bankers are fugitives from justice, and at least
one editor.

