THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. 12, No. 323.] SATURDAY, JULY 19, 1828. [PRICE 2d.

London is at length destined to become a seat of learning; or rather, a seminary as well as
a focus and mart of literature:

Instruction, manners, mysteries, and trades.

One college is almost completed within her radius, and will be opened in a few weeks; whilst
munificent subscriptions are pouring in from all quarters of the empire, towards the endowment
of a second. We have hitherto been silent spectators of these grand strides in the intellectual
advancement of our country; but we have not, on that account, been less sensible of the important
benefits which they are calculated to work in her social scheme, and in

    The nurture of her youth, her dearest pledge.

We are not of those who would (even were Newton's theory practicable) compress the world into
a nutshell, or neglect "aught toward the general good;" and one of our respected correspondents,
who doubtless participates in these cosmopolitan sentiments, has furnished us with the original
of the above view of COLOMBIA COLLEGE; seeing that this, like the universities of our own country,
is equally important to "Prince Posterity," and accordingly we proceed with our correspondent's
description.

Colombia College, in the city of New York (of the principal building of which the annexed sketch
is a correct representation) may be ranked among the chief seminaries of learning in America.
It was principally founded by the voluntary contributions of the inhabitants of the province,
assisted by the general assembly and corporation of Trinity Church, in 1754; at which time
it was called King's College.

A royal charter, and grant of money, was obtained, incorporating a number of gentlemen therein
mentioned, by the name of "The Governors of the College of the province of New York, in the
City of New York;" and granting to them and their successors for ever, among various other
rights and privileges, the power of conferring such degrees as are usually conferred {34} by
the English universities. The president and members to be of the church of England, and the
form of prayer used to be collected from the Liturgy of the church of England.

Since the revolution, the legislature passed an act, constituting twenty-one gentlemen, (of
whom were the governor and lieutenant-governor for the time being,) a body corporate and politic,
by the name of "the Regents of the University of the state of New York." They were entrusted
with the care of the literature of the state, and a power to grant charters for erecting colleges
and academies throughout the state.

It received the name of Colombia College in 1787; when by an act of the legislature, it was
placed under the care of twenty-four gentlemen, styled, "the trustees of the Colombian College,"
who possessed the same powers as those of King's College.

In 1813, the College of Physicians and the Medical School were united; and the academical and
medical departments are together styled "The University of New York." It is now well endowed
and liberally patronized by the legislature of the state. The College consists of two handsome
stone edifices, but the view given is but one-third of the originally intended structure, and
contains a chapel, hall, library of 5,000 volumes, museum, anatomical theatre, and school for
experimental philosophy.

The Medical College is a large, brick building, containing an anatomical museum, chemical laboratory,
mineralogical cabinet, museum of natural history, and a botanical garden, and nine medical
professors. Every student pays to each professor from 15 to 25 dollars per course.

