A righteous cause will not only stand unshaken through trials and discomfiture, but it will
draw strength from the very setbacks which it may suffer.  A wrongful cause can only stand
as long as it is buoyed up by success.

The German people were sustained by a sheer obsession akin to the old-time belief in the potent
spell of "the black arts" that their military masters were invulnerable and invincible, that
by some power--good or evil, they did not care which--they had been made so, and that the world
was bound to fall before them.

The nation was immensely strong only as long as that obsession remained unshaken.  With its
destruction by a series of defeats which were incapable of being explained as "strategic retreats,"
their morale crumbled and finally collapsed, because it was not sustained, as that of the Allies
was sustained in the darkest days of the war, by the faith that they were fighting for all
that men hold most sacred.

To those who were acquainted with German mentality and psychology, it had been manifest all
along that when the end foreordained did come, it would come with catastrophic suddenness.

WHERE THE TIDE TURNED

It is the general impression that the tide of victory set in with Marshal Foch's splendid movement
against the German flank on July 18th. That movement, it is true, started the irresistible
sweep of the wave which was destined to engulf and destroy the hideous power of Prussianism.
But the tide which gathered and drove forward the waters out of which that wave arose, had
turned before.  It turned with and through the supreme valor of our marines and other American
troops in the first battle at Château-Thierry and at Belleau Wood, in the first week of June.

The American force engaged was small, measured by the standard of numbers to which we have
become accustomed in this war, but the story of their fighting will remain immortal and in
its psychological and strategic consequences the action will take rank, I believe, among the
decisive battles of the war.

I am not speaking from hearsay.  I was in France during the week preceding that battle, the
most anxious and gloomy period, probably, of the entire war.  What I am about to relate is
based either on authoritative information gathered on the spot, or on my own observations.
In telling it, nothing is farther from my thoughts than to wish to take away one tittle from
the immortal glory which belongs to the Allied armies, nor from the undying gratitude which
we owe to the nations who for four heart-breaking years, with superb heroism, fought the battle
of civilization--our battle from the very beginning, no less than theirs--and bore untold sacrifices
with never faltering spirit.

JUST BEFORE THE TIDE TURNED

On the 27th of last May the Germans broke through the French position at the Chemin des Dames,
a position which had been considered by the Allies as almost impregnable.  They overthrew the
French as they had overthrown the British two months earlier.  Day by day they came nearer
to Paris, until only thirty-nine miles separated them from their goal. A few days more at the
same rate of advance, and Paris was within range of the German guns of terrific destructive
power.  Paris, the nerve center of the French railroad system and the seat of many French war
industries, not only, but the very heart of France, far more to the French people in its meaning
and traditions than merely the capital of the country; Paris in imminent danger of ruthless
bombardment like Rheims, in possible danger even of conquest by the brutal invader, drunk with
lust and with victory!  As one Frenchman expressed it to me: "We felt in our faces the very
breath of the approaching beast."

And whilst the Hunnish hordes came nearer and nearer, and the very roar of the battle could
be dimly and ominously heard from time to time in Paris, there were air raids over the city
practically every night, and the shells from the long-range monster guns installed some sixty
or seventy miles distant fell on its houses, places, and streets almost every day.

They were not afraid, these superb men and women of France.  They do not know the meaning of
fear in defense of their beloved soil and their sacred ideals.  There was no outward manifestation
even of excitement or apprehension.  Calmly and resolutely they faced what destiny might bring.
But there was deep gloom in their hearts and dire forebodings.

They had fought and dared and suffered and sacrificed for well-nigh four years.  They had buried
a million of their sons, brothers, and fathers.  They were bleeding from a million wounds and
more.  They said: "We will fight on to our last drop of blood, but alas! our physical strength
is ebbing.  The enemy is more numerous by far than we.  Where can we look for aid?  The British
have just suffered grave defeat.  The Italians have their own soil to defend after the disaster
of last autumn.  Our troops are in retreat.  The Americans are not ready and they are untried
as yet in the fierce ordeal of modern warfare.  The Germans know well that in three months
or six months the Americans will be ready and strong in numbers.  That is why they are throwing
every ounce of their formidable power against us now.  The Hun is at the gate now.  Immeasurable
consequences are at stake now.  It is a question of days, not of weeks or months.  Where can
we look for aid now?"

And out of their nooks and corners and hiding places crawled forth the slimy brood of the Bolshevik-Socialists,
of the Boloists, Caillauxists, and pacifists, and they hissed into the ears of the people,
"Make peace!  Victory has become impossible.  Why go on shedding rivers of blood uselessly?
The Germans will give you an honorable, even a generous peace.  Save Paris!  Make peace!"

The holy wrath of France crushed those serpents whenever their heads became visible.  Clemenceau,
the embodiment of the dauntless spirit of France, stood forth the very soul of patriotic ardor
and indomitable courage.  But the serpents were there, crawling hidden in the grass, ever hissing,
"Make peace!"

And then, suddenly out of the gloom flashed the lightning of a new sword, sharp and mighty,
a sword which had never been drawn except for freedom, a sword which had never known defeat--the
sword of America!

THE TURNING OF THE TIDE

A division of marines and other American troops were rushed to the front as a desperate measure
to try and stop a gap where flesh and blood, even when animated by French heroism, seemed incapable
of further resistance.  They came in trucks, in cattle cars, by any conceivable kind of conveyance,
crowded together like sardines.  They had had little food, and less sleep, for days.

When they arrived, the situation had become such that the French command advised, indeed ordered,
them to retire.  But they and their brave general would not hear of it.  They disembarked almost
upon the field of battle and rushed forward, with little care for orthodox battle order, without
awaiting the arrival of their artillery, which had been unable to keep up with their rapid
passage to that front.

They stormed ahead, right through the midst of a retreating French division, yelling like wild
Indians, ardent, young, irresistible in their fury of battle.  Some of the Frenchmen called
out a well-meant warning: "Don't go in this direction.  There are the boches with machine guns."
They shouted back:

"That's where we want to go.  That's where we have come three thousand miles to go."  And they
did go, into the very teeth of the deadly machine guns.  In defiance of all precedent they
stormed, with rifle and bayonet in frontal attack, against massed machine guns.

They threw themselves upon the victory-flushed Huns to whom this unconventional kind of fierce
onset came as a complete and disconcerting surprise.  They fought like demons, with utterly
reckless bravery.  They paid the price, alas! in heavy losses, but for what they paid they
took compensation in over-full measure.

They formed of themselves a spearhead at the point nearest Paris, against which the enemy's
onslaught shattered itself and broke.  They stopped the Hun, they beat him back, they broke
the spell of his advance.  They started victory on its march.

A new and unspent and mighty force had come into the fray.  And the Hun knew it to his cost
and the French knew it to their unbounded joy.  The French turned.  Side by side the Americans
and the French stood, and on that part of the front the Germans never advanced another inch
from that day.  They held for a while, and then set in the beginning of the great defeat.

I was in Paris when the news of the American achievement reached the population.  They knew
full well what it meant.  The danger was still present, but the crisis was over.  The boche
could not break through. He could and would be stopped and ultimately thrown back, out of France,
out of Belgium, across the Rhine and beyond!

The aid for which the sorely beset people of France had been praying, had arrived.  The Americans
had come, young, strong, daring, eager to fight, capable of standing up against and stopping
and beating back German shock troops specially selected and trained, and spurred on by the
belief in their own irresistibility and the exhaustion of their opponents.  The full wave of
the hideous instruments of warfare which the devilish ingenuity of the Germans had invented,
liquid fire, monstrous shells, various kinds of gases including the horrible mustard gas, had
struck the Americans squarely and fully, and they had stood and fought on and won.

The French, so calm in their trials, so restrained in their own victories, gave full vent to
their joy and enthusiasm at the splendid fighting and success of the Americans.  The talk of
them was everywhere in Paris.  Hundreds of thousands of American soldiers already in France,
thousands coming upon every steamer, millions more to come if needed--and they had shown the
great stuff they were made of!  All gloom vanished, overnight.  The full magnificence of the
French fighting morale shone out again--both behind the lines and at the front.  "Ils ne passeront
pas!"  "On les aura." [1]

And the Bolshevik-Socialists, Boloists, weak-kneed pacifists, and that whole noisome tribe
slunk back into their holes and corners and hiding places, and never emerged again.

And, as the people of Paris and the poilus at the front correctly interpreted the meaning of
that battle in those early days of June, so did the supreme military genius of Marshal Foch
interpret it.  He knew what the new great fighting force could do which had come under his
orders, and he knew what he meant to do and could do with it.  It is an eloquent fact that
when six weeks later he struck his great master stroke which was to lead ultimately to the
utter defeat and collapse of the enemy, American troops formed the larger portion of an attacking
force which, being thrown against a particularly vital position, was meant to deal and did
deal the most staggering blow to the enemy; and other American troops were allotted the place
which from the paramount responsibility attaching to it, may be termed the place of honor,
in the center of the line, in immediate defense of the approaches to Paris.

They made good there--officers and men alike.  They made good everywhere, from Cantigny to
Sedan.  They made good on land, on the seas, and in the air; worthy comrades of the war-seasoned
heroes of France and Great Britain, worthy defenders of American honor, eager artisans of American
glory.  When for the first time the American army went into action as a separate unit under
the direct command of its great chief, General Pershing, Marshal Foch allotted them ten days
for the accomplishment of the task set for them, i.e., the ejection of the German army from
the strongly fortified St. Mihiel salient, which the enemy had held for four years.  They did
it in thirty hours, and made a complete and perfect job of it.

I have had the privilege of seeing these splendid boys of ours, in all situations and circumstances,
from their camps in America to the front in France--the boys and their equally splendid leaders.
The sacred inspiration of what I have thus seen will stay with me to my last day.

I confess I find it hard to speak of them without a catch in my throat and moisture in my eyes.
I see them before me now in the fair land of France--brave, strong, ardent; keen and quick-witted;
kindly and clean and modest and wholly free from boasting; good-humored and good-natured; willingly
submissive to unaccustomed discipline; uncomplainingly enduring all manner of hardships and
discomforts; utterly contemptuous of danger, daring to a fault, holding life cheap for the
honor and glory of America.  What true American can think of them or picture them without having
his heart overflow with grateful and affectionate pride?

As I observed our army "over there," I felt that in them, in the mass of them, representing
as they do all sections and callings of America, there had returned the ancient spirit of knighthood.
I measure my words.  I am not exaggerating.  If I had to find one single word with which to
characterize our boys, I should select the adjective "knightly."

A French officer who commanded a body of French troops, fighting fiercely and almost hopelessly
in Belleau Wood near Château-Thierry (since then officially designated by the French Government
as the Wood of the Marine Brigade), told me that when they had arrived almost at the point
of total exhaustion, suddenly the Americans appeared rushing to the rescue.  One of the American
officers hurried up to him, saluted and said in execrably pronounced French just six words:
"Vous--fatigués, vous--partir, notre job."  "You--tired, you--get away, our job." And right
nobly did they do their job!

[1] "They shall not pass!"  "We will get them."

*******************

Almost every soldier who goes into battle leaves a letter to be read in the event of his death.
Sturgis ("Spud") Pishon, a former famous college athlete, serving in the American air forces
in Italy, before his fatal flight wrote this letter, so full of the strength and simplicity
of a great soldier:

"What little I have to give to my country I give without reservation. If there ever was a righteous
cause it is ours, and I am proud to have worked and died for it.

"Pray God this war will be over soon and that it will be the last war.

"I leave you with a smile on my lips and a heart full of love for you all.  God bless you and
keep you."

STURGIS.

A BOY OF PERUGIA

In the year 1500, Raphael was a boy of eighteen in Perugia working and studying with the master
painter Perugino.  Did the city itself, free on its hill top, looking afar over undulating
mountains and great valleys, implant in the sensitive soul of Raphael a love of beauty and
a vision that made him become one of the greatest painters of the world?  Perugia can never
be forgotten, for the boy Raphael once lived, worked, and studied there.

In the year 1915 Enzo Valentini was a boy of eighteen in Perugia.  He was a high school boy
and his father was mayor of the city.  One of his teachers says he was an unusually brilliant
scholar, with remarkable artistic gifts.  Did the city and its beautiful surroundings open
his soul to the vision of love and tenderness for his "little mother" and of the duty that
called him while but a boy in the high school to serve and, if need be, die for his country?

When Italy entered the war, he gave up his studies, dropped his pen and his brushes, volunteered
as a private, and was soon fighting with his countrymen in the Alps.

Certainly his soul was responsive to beauty in nature; for in the midst of war and war's alarms,
he found peace of spirit in the wonderful Alpine country.  He writes, "The longer I am here,
the more I love the mountains.  The spell they weave does not come so quickly as that of the
sea, but I think it is deeper and more enduring.  Every passing moment, every cloud, every
morning mist clothes the mountains in a beauty so great that even the coarsest of our brave
soldiers stop to admire it.  It may be for only an instant but this is enough to prove that
the soul never forgets its heavenly birth even though it be the soul of an uneducated peasant,
imprisoned in the roughest shell.  The days pass one after another calmly, serenely.  It seems
as if the autumn ought never to end.  The divine and solemn peace of the nights is beyond the
power of words to express, especially now that the moon is shedding its magic silver over all.
There are hours in the day when everything is so filled and covered with light and when the
silence is so impressive that at moments the light seems to be gone letting the silence blaze
forth in the wonderful harmony of nature."

Enzo Valentini loved nature, loved his native land, and loved his mother.  She understood him
and knew that because of his love for her he was willing to die for Italy and the mothers of
Italy.  Shortly before his death he wrote her this beautiful letter:--

"Little mother, in a very few days I am leaving for the front lines. For your dear sake I am
writing this farewell which you will read only if I am killed.  Let it be my good-by to father,
to my brothers, and to all those in the world who cared for me.

"My heart in its love and gratitude to you has always brought its holiest thoughts to you;
and now it is to you that I make known my last wishes.

"Many have loved me.  To each of them give some little thing of mine in remembrance of me,
after you have laid aside all those that you care for most.  I wish that all who have loved
me should possess something of the friend that is gone to rise like a flame above the clouds,
above the flesh, into the sun, into the very soul of the universe.

"Try, if you can, not to weep for me too much.  Believe that even though I do not come back
to you, I am not dead.  My body, the less important part of me, suffers and dies; but not I
myself--I, the soul, cannot die, because I come from God and must return to God.  I was made
for happiness and through suffering I must return to the everlasting happiness.  If I have
been for a short time a prisoner in the body, I am not the less eternal.  My death is freedom,
the beginning of the real life, the return to the Infinite.

"Therefore do not mourn for me.  If you consider the immortal beauty of the ideals for which
my soul is willingly sacrificing my body, you will not mourn.  But if your mother heart must
weep, let the tears flow; a mother's tears are forever sacred.  God will take account of them;
they will be the stars of a crown.

"Be strong, little mother.  From the great beyond, your son says farewell to you, to father,
to brothers, to all who have loved him--your son, who has given his body in the fight against
those who would put out the light of the world."

So read the "little mother" of Enzo Valentini after the assault upon Sano di Mezzodi.  When
his platoon charged he was the first to dash from the trench giving courage to all who hesitated.
Together they made the mountains ring with the old Italian war cry, "Savoia!  Italia!"

Enzo Valentini fell pierced by five pieces of shrapnel.  They carried him back to a grotto
where the surgeons dressed his wounds.

