The personal relations of the Emperor to his people, and in especial to the vast burghertum,
are precisely those to be expected from his traditional and constitutional relations. He is
not popular, but he is widely and sincerely respected. His preference for the army, intelligible
though it is, and the cleavage that separates Government and people, explain to some extent
the want of popularity, using that word in its "popular" sense; while the consciousness of
all the nation owes to his "goodwill," his initiative and energy, his conscientiousness in
all directions, is quite sufficient to account for the respect. It is, in truth, in part at
least, the respect which excludes the popularity. No one is ever likely to be popular, anywhere,
who is constantly endeavouring to teach people how to live and what to think, and at the same
time seems to have no social weaknesses to reconcile him with those--no small number--who are
fond of cakes and ale. Some of the Emperor's acts and speeches have postponed, if not precluded,
eventual popularity--his breach with Bismarck, for example, the whole "personal regiment,"
and speeches like that at Potsdam in 1891, when he told his recruits that if he had to order
them to shoot down their brothers, or even their parents, they must obey without a murmur.
Speeches of this last kind live long in public memory. In his dealings with his people the
Emperor is neither arrogant--"high-nosed" is the elegant German expression: "arrogant" is no
German word, Prince Bülow would doubtless say-- towards his subjects, nor are they cringing
towards him, though this statement does not exclude the excusable embarrassment an ordinary
mortal may be expected to feel in the presence of a monarch. The Emperor himself desires no
"tail-wagging" from his subjects, and though there is something of the autocrat in him, there
is nothing of the despot.

Certainly for the present, Germans, with rare exceptions, are satisfied with him. They are
prospering under him. The shoe pinches here and there, and if it pinches too hard they will
cry out and perhaps do more than cry out. They do not consider the Emperor perfect, but they
forgive his errors, and particularly the errors of his impetuous youth, even though on three
or four occasions they brought the country into danger. Monarchy has been defined as a State
in which the attention of the nation is concentrated on one person doing interesting things:
a republic, as a State in which the attention is divided between many who are all doing uninteresting
things: Germans find their Emperor interesting, and that is a stage on the road to popularity.

The imperial ego, which is quite consistent with the German view of monarchical rule and conformity
with the Rechtstaat, is specially advertised by the pictures and statues of the Emperor which
are to be found all over Germany, to the apparent exclusion of the pictures and statues of
national and local men of distinction. The Emperor's picture almost monopolizes the walls of
every public and municipal office, every railway-station refreshment-room, every shop, every
restaurant throughout the Empire. Wherever it turns the eye is confronted by the portrait or
bust of the Emperor, and if it is not his portrait or bust, it is the portrait or bust of one
or other of his ancestors. An exception should be made in the case of Bismarck, the reproduction
of whose rugged features, shaggy eyebrows, and bulky frame are not infrequent; statues and
portraits, too, of Moltke and Roon, though much more rarely met with than those of Bismarck,
are to be seen, while those of Goethe, Schiller, Kant, Lessing, Wagner, or other German "Immortal,"
are still rarer. Only once, or perhaps twice, in all Germany is there to be found a public
statue of Heine--for Heine was a Jew and said many unpleasant, because true, things about his
country. The travelling foreigner in Germany after a while begins to wonder if he is not in
some far Eastern country where ancestor-worship obtains, and where one tremendous personality
overshadows, obscures, and obliterates all the rest. In truth, however, this is not the lesson
of the imperial images for the foreigner. They teach him that he is in a country with a system
of government and views of the State different from his own, that the Empire is ruled in a
military, not a civic spirit, and that the counterfeit presentment of the Emperor, always in
dazzling uniform, is the sign of the national acceptance of system, views, and spirit.

A similar lesson is taught by the Emperor's speeches. In England the King rarely speaks in
public, and then with well-calculated brevity and reserve. In five words he will open a museum
and with a sentence unveil a monument. The Emperor's speeches fill four stout volumes--and
he is only fifty-four. The speeches deal with every sort of topic, and have been delivered
in all parts of the Empire--now to Parliament, now to his assembled generals, now at the celebration
of some national or individual jubilee, now at the dedication of a building or the opening
of a bridge. The style is always clear and logical, in this respect contrasting favourably
with the German style of twenty years ago, when the language wriggled from clause to clause
in vermiform articulations until the thought found final expression in a mob of participles
and infinitives. Metaphors abound in the speeches, some of them slightly far-fetched, but others
of uncommon beauty, appropriateness, and pith. There is no brilliant employment of words, but
not seldom one comes across such terse and happy phrases as the famous "We stand under the
star of commerce," "Our future lies on the water," "We demand a place in the sun."

On the English reader the speeches will be apt to pall, unless he is thoroughly saturated with
Prussian historic, military, and romantic lore and can place himself mentally in the position
of the Emperor. The tone, never quite detached from consciousness of the imperial ego, hardly
ever descends to the level of familiar conversation nor rises to heights of eloquence that
carry away the hearer. With three or four exceptions, there is no argumentation in the speeches,
for they are not meant to persuade or convince, but to enjoin and command. They do not contain
any of the important and interesting facts and figures of which, nevertheless, the Emperor's
mind must be full, and they are wanting in wit and humour, though nature has endowed the Emperor
with both.

On the other hand, it should be remembered that they are the speeches of an Emperor, not of
a statesman. The speeches have no political timeliness or object save that of rousing and directing
imperial spirit among the people by appeals to their imagination and patriotism. Had the Emperor
been actuated by the spirit of a Minister or statesman, he would have been far more alive to
the fact than he appears to have been, that every word he uttered would instantly find an echo
in the Parliament, Press, and Stock Exchange of all other countries.

The Emperor's fundamental mistakes, as disclosed by his speeches, appear to an Englishman to
have been in assuming when they were made that the Empire was in a less advanced stage of consolidation
and settlement than it in fact was, and in underrating the intelligence, knowledge, and patriotism
of his people. From this point of view his early speeches in particular sound jejune or superfluous.
What would the Englishman say to a king who began his reign by a series of homilies on Alfred
the Great or Elizabeth or Queen Victoria; by using strong language about the Labour party or
the Fabian Society; by appeals to throne and altar; by describing to Parliament the chief duties
of the monarch; by recommending the London County Council to build plenty of churches; by calling
journalists "hunger-candidates"; by frequent references to the battles of Waterloo and Trafalgar?
Yet, mutatis mutandis, this is not so very unlike what the young Emperor did, and not for a
year or two, but for several years after his accession. To an Englishman such addresses would
appear rather ill-timed academic declamation.

Yet there was much, and perhaps is still much, to account for, if not quite justify, the Emperor's
rhetoric. The peculiarity of Germany's monarchic system placed, and places, the monarch in
a patriarchal position not very different from that of Moses towards the Israelites--a leader,
preacher, and prophet. Again, the Empire, when the Emperor came to the throne, was not a homogeneous
nation inspired by a centuries-old national spirit, but suffered, as it still in a measure
suffers, from the particularism of the various kingdoms and States composing it: in other words,
from too local a patriotism and stagnation of the imperial idea. Thirdly, the Empire had no
navy, while an Empire to-day without a navy is at a tremendous and dangerous disadvantage in
world-politics, and the mere conception that a navy was indispensable had to be created in
a country lying in the heart of Europe and with only one short coast-line.

The Englishman is as loyal to his King as the German is to his Emperor, and England, as little
as Germany, is disposed to change from monarchy to republicanism. But the Englishman's political
and social governor, guide, and executive is not the King, but the Parliament; because while
in the King he has a worthy representative of the nation's historical development and dignity,
in the Parliament he sees a powerful and immediate reflection of himself, his own wishes, and
his own judgments. Moreover, with the spread of democratic ideas, the position of a monarch
anywhere in the civilized world to-day is not what it was fifty years ago. The general progress
in education since then; the drawing together of the nations by common commercial and financial
interests; the incessant activity of writers and publishers; the circulation and power of the
Press--themselves almost threatening to become a despotism--such facts as these tend to change
the relations between kings and peoples. Monarchs and men are changing places; the ruler becomes
the subject, the subject ruler; it is the people who govern, and the monarch obeys the people's
will.

Such is not the view of the German Emperor nor of the German people. To both the monarch is
no "shadow-king," as both are fond of calling the King of England, but an Emperor of flesh
and blood, commissioned to take the leading part in decisions binding on the nation, responsible
to no one but the Almighty, and the sole bestower of State honours. There are, it is true,
three factors of imperial government constitutionally--the Emperor, the Federal Council, and
the Imperial Parliament; but while the Council has only very indirect relations with the people,
the Parliament, a consultative body for legislation, is not the depositary of power or authority,
or an assembly to which either the Emperor, or the Council, or the Imperial Chancellor is responsible.
It must be admitted that, while such is the constitutional theory, the actual practice is to
a considerable extent different. The Emperor is no absolute monarch, even in the domain of
foreign affairs, as he is often said to be, but is influenced and guided, certainly of late
years, both by the Federal Council and by public opinion, the power of which latter has greatly
augmented in recent times. Whether the Reichstag really represents public opinion in the Empire
is a moot-point in Germany itself. It can hardly be denied that it does so, at least in financial
matters, since with regard to them it has all the powers, or almost all, possessed by the English
House of Commons in this respect. Where its powers fail, it is said, is in regard to administration;
for though it deliberates on and passes legislation, it is left by the Constitution to the
Emperor and his Ministers to issue instructions as to how legislation is to be carried into
effect. The result is to throw excessive power over public comfort and convenience into the
hands of the official class of all degrees, which naturally employs it to maintain its own
dignity and privileged position.

Towards one class of the population, and that a highly important and exceptional one, the Emperor's
attitude of unprejudiced goodwill has never varied. Israelites form only a small proportion--about
1 per cent.--of the whole people, and are to be found in very large numbers only in Berlin
and Frankfurt; but to their financial and commercial ability Germany owes a debt one may almost
describe as incalculable. There is a strong national prejudice against them in all parts of
the Empire, as there probably is in all countries, and it must be admitted that the manners
and customs of the lower-class Jew, his unpleasant and insistent curiosity, his intrusiveness
where he is not desired, his want of cleanliness, his sharpness at a bargain, his oily bearing
to those he wishes to propitiate and his ruthless sweating of the worker in all fields when
in his power, are all disagreeable personal qualities. There is also, as a concomitant of the
nation's growth in wealth of every sort, and mostly perhaps to be found in the capital a class
of Jewish parvenu, remarkable for snobbishness, ostentation, and affectation.

But one must distinguish; and of a large percentage of the educated class of Jew in Germany
it would be difficult to speak too highly. Germans may be the "salt of the earth," as the Emperor
once told them they were, but Jewish talent can with quite as much, perhaps more, justice be
called the salt of German prosperity. And not alone in the region of finance and commerce.
Some of the best intellect, most of the leading enterprise in Germany, in all important directions,
is Jewish. Many of her ablest newspaper proprietors and editors are Jews. Many of her finest
actors and actresses are Jews and Jewesses. Many of her cleverest lawyers, doctors, and artists
are Jews. The career of Herr Albert Ballin, the Jewish director of the Hamburg-Amerika line,
the Emperor's friend, to whom Germany owes a great deal of her mercantile marine expansion,
is a long romance illustrative of Jewish organizing power and success.

The Emperor's friendship for Herr Ballin is obviously not entirely disinterested, but the interest
at the root of it is an imperial one. In this spirit he cultivates to-day, as he has done since
he took over the Empire, the society of all his subjects, German or Jew, who either by their
talents or through their wealth can contribute to the success of the mighty task which occupies
his waking thoughts, and for all one knows, his sleeping thoughts--his dreams--as well. Accordingly,
the wealthy German is quite aware that if he is to be reckoned among the Emperor's friends
he must be prepared to pay for the privilege, since the Emperor is neither slow nor shy about
using his influence in order to make the more fortunate members of the community put their
hands deeply into their pockets for national purposes. A little time ago he invited a number
of merchant princes and captains of industry, as American papers invariably call wealthy Germans,
to a Bier-abend at the palace. When the score or so of guests were seated, he announced that
he was collecting subscriptions for some public object--the national airship fund, perhaps--and
sent a sheet of paper to Herr Friedlander Fuld, the "coal-king" of Germany, to head the list.
Herr Fuld wrote down £5,000, and the paper was taken back to the Emperor. "Oh, this will never
do, lieber Fuld," he exclaimed, on seeing the amount. "At this rate people will be putting
down their names for £50. You must at least double it." And Herr Fuld had to do so. A few weeks
afterwards there was another invitation to the palace, and the same sort of scene took place.
A little later still Herr Fuld got a third invitation, and as an imperial invitation is equivalent
to a command, he had to go. When he arrived he noticed his fellow-industrials looking uneasy,
not to say sad. The Emperor noticed it too, for his first words were: "Dear gentlemen, to-night
the beer costs nothing."

Throughout the reign Germany has made it her constant policy to cultivate friendly relations
with the United States. Chancellor von Bülow, in 1899, apropos of Samoa, said in the Reichstag:
"We can confidently say that in no other country has America during the last hundred years
found better understanding and more just recognition than in Germany." This is true of the
educated classes, professional, professorial, and scientific; but the ordinary European German,
who does not know and understand America, still displays no particular love for the ordinary
American. At the same time he probably prefers him to the people of any other nation. American
outspokenness in politics, for example, must be refreshing to minds penned within the limits
of the Rechtstaat. He sees in them, too, millionaires, or at least people who come from a country
where money is so abundant that, as many country-people still think, you have only to stoop
to pick it up. When it comes to business, however, he is a little afraid of their somewhat
too sanguine enterprise, and is given to suspect that a "bluff" of some sort is behind the
simplest business proposition. Much of this, of course, is due to ignorance heightened by yellow
journalism, for as a rule only the vastly interesting, but mostly untrue, "stories" regarding
Germany printed in the yellow press come back to the Fatherland.

The German, again, is made uneasy by what he thinks the hasty manners of the Americans; he
considers them uncivil. So, let it be admitted, they sometimes appear to be to people of other
nationalities; but then as a rule Americans who jar on European nerves will be found to hail
from places where life, to use the American expression, is "woolly," or too strenuous to allow
of the delicacies of real refinement. The ordinary idea of the German in Germany, held by the
stay-at-home American, is a vague species of dislike, founded on the conviction that the American,
not the German, is the salt of the earth; that the German regard for tradition makes them a
slow and slowly moving race; and that the Emperor as War Lord--for he is almost solely known
to him in that capacity--must be ever desirous of war, in particular wishes to seize a coaling-station
or even a country, in South America, and, generally speaking, set at naught the Monroe doctrine.
The Governments on both sides, of course, know and understand each other better. In November,
1906, Prince Bülow publicly thanked America for her attitude at Algeciras, implying that it
was due to her representative's conciliatory and reconciliatory conduct that the Conference
did not end in a fiasco. "This," said the Chancellor, "was the second great service to the
world rendered by America; the other," he added, "being the bringing about of peace between
Russia and Japan."

A great deal of the increased intercourse between the two countries is due to the personal
endeavours of the Emperor. What his motives are may be conjectured with fair accuracy from
a general knowledge of his "up-to-date" character, the commercial policy of his Empire, and
the events of recent years. He has a whole-hearted admiration for the American character and
genius, so akin in many ways to his own character and genius; and if he refuses to recommend
for Germans similar institutions to those in States, federated in a manner somewhat analogous
to that of the kingdoms and States composing his own Empire, it is not from want of liberality
of mind, but because they are wholly opposed to Prussian tradition, because his people do not
demand them, and because he honestly believes that in respect of topographical situation, climate,
historical development, and race feelings and sentiment, the safeguards and requirements of
Germany are widely different from those of America.

As a young man he naturally had very little to do with America or Americans, though among his
schoolboy playmates was a young American, Poulteney Bigelow, who afterwards wrote an excellent
appreciation of the fine traits in the Emperor's character. At the same time the Emperor himself
has stated that the country always interested him, and recent visitors bear out the statement
fully. In 1889, a year after his accession, he expressed his admiration for America, when receiving
the American Ambassador, Mr. Phelps. "From my youth on," the Emperor said,

     "I have had a great admiration for that powerful and
     progressive commonwealth which you are called on to
     represent, and the study of its history in peace and war has
     had for me at all times a special interest. Among the many
     distinguished characteristics of your people, which draw to
     them the attention of the whole world, are their
     enterprising spirit, their love of order, and their talent
     for invention. The predominant sentiment of both peoples is
     that of affinity and tested friendship, and the future can
     only strengthen the heartiness of their relations."

More than twenty years have elapsed since the words were uttered, and the prediction has been
fulfilled.

Scores of anecdotes, it need hardly be said, are current in connexion with the Emperor and
American friends. One of them is that of an American, Mr. Frank Wyberg, the husband of a lady
who, with her children, used often to visit Mr. and Mrs. Armour on their yacht Uttowana at
Kiel, there met the Emperor, and was invariably kindly greeted by him. Mr. Wyberg was summoned
with his friend, General Miles, to an audience of the Emperor in Berlin. Before going to the
palace Mr. Wyberg went to a well-known picture-dealer in the city and bought a small but artistic
painting costing about £1,000. He had the picture neatly done up, and carried it off under
his arm to the hotel where he was to meet General Miles. As they were leaving for the palace
the General asked Mr. Wyberg what he was carrying. "Oh, only a trifle for the Kaiser!" was
the reply. The General was horrified, and tried to dissuade his friend from bringing the picture,
telling him that the proper procedure was to ask through the Foreign Office or the American
Embassy for the Emperor's gracious acceptance of it. Otherwise the Emperor would be annoyed,
he would think badly of American manners, and so on. Mr. Wyberg, however, was not to be deterred,
and insisted that it would be "all right." While waiting in the reception-room for the Emperor,
Mr. Wyberg unwrapped the picture and placed it leaning against the wall on a piano. By and
by the Emperor came in, and almost the first thing he said, after shaking hands, was to ask
what the presence of the picture meant. Mr. Wyberg explained that it was a mark of gratitude
for the kindness the Emperor had shown his wife and children at Kiel. The Emperor smiled, said
it was a very kind thought, and willingly accepted the gift. The story has a sequel. A day
or two after a Court official called at the hotel, to get from General Miles Mr. Wyberg's initials,
and after another few days had passed reappeared with a bulky parcel. On being opened the parcel
was found to consist of a large silver loving-cup, with Mr. Wyberg's name chased upon it, and
underneath the words, "From Wilhelm II."

Another anecdote refers to an American naval attaché, a favourite of the Emperor's. Dinner
at the palace was over, and the attaché, wishing to keep a memento of the occasion, took his
large menu card and concealed it, as he thought, between his waistcoat and his shirt. Unfortunately,
when taking leave of the Emperor, the card slipped down and part of it became visible. The
Emperor's quick eye immediately noticed it. "Hallo! H----," he exclaimed; "look out, your dickey's
coming down!" The story shows the Emperor's acquaintance with English slang as well as his
geniality.

The Emperor seems to take pleasure in displaying himself to Americans in as republican a light
as possible, and when he desires the company of an American friend, stands on no sort of ceremony.
The American's telephone bell may ring at any hour of the day or evening, and a voice is heard--"Here
royal palace. His Majesty wishes to ask if the Herr So-and-So will come to the palace this
evening for dinner." On one occasion this happened to Professor Burgess. The telephone at the
Hotel Adlon in Berlin rang up from Potsdam about six in the afternoon, and there was so little
time for the Professor to catch his train that he was forced to finish his dressing en route.
Or the invitation may be for "a glass of beer" after dinner, about nine o'clock.

If it is a dinner invitation, the guest, in evening clothes, with his white tie doubtless a
trifle more carefully adjusted than usual, drives or walks to the palace. He enters a gate
on the south side facing the statue of Frederick the Great, and under the archway finds a doorway
with a staircase leading immediately to the royal apartments on the first floor. In an ante-room
are other guests, a couple of Ministers, the Rector Magnificus of the university, and perhaps
a "Roosevelt" or "exchange" professor; and if the party is not one of men only, such as the
Emperor is fond of arranging, and the Empress is expected, the wives also of the invited guests.
Without previous notice the Emperor enters, an American lover of slang might almost say "blows
in," with quick steps and a bustling air that instantly fills the room with life and energy,
and showing a cheery smile of welcome on his face. The guests are standing round in a half
or three-quarter circle, and the Emperor goes from one to the other, shaking hands and delivering
himself of a sentence or two, either in the form of a question or remark, and then passing
on. When it is not a bachelors' party, the Empress comes in later with her ladies. A servant
in the royal livery of red and gold, on a signal from the Emperor, throws open a door leading
to the dining-room, and the Emperor and Empress enter first. The guests take their places according
to the cards on the table. If it is a men's party of, say, four guests, the Emperor will seat
them on his right and left and immediately opposite, with an adjutant or two as makeweights
and in case he should want to send for plans or books. On these occasions he is usually in
the dark blue uniform of a Prussian infantry general, with an order or two blazing on his breast.
He sits very upright, and starts and keeps going the conversation with such skill and verve
that soon every one, even the shyest, is drawn into it. There is plenty of argument and divergence
of view. If the Emperor is convinced that he is right, he will, as has more than once occurred,
jestingly offer to back his opinion with a wager. "I'll bet you"--he will exclaim, with all
the energy of an English schoolboy. He enjoys a joke or witticism immensely, and leans back
in his chair as he joins in the hearty peal about him. When cigars or cigarettes are handed
round, he will take an occasional puff at one of the three or four cigarettes he allows himself
during the evening, or sip at a glass of orangeade placed before him and filled from time to
time. When he feels disposed he rises, and having shaken hands with his guests, now standing
about him, retires into his workroom. A few moments later the guests disperse.

Conversation, both in England and Germany, sometimes turns on the question whether or not the
Emperor will be known to future generations as William "the Great." It is agreed on all sides
that he will not take a place among the mediocrities or sink into oblivion. We have, though
only negatively and indirectly, his own view of the matter, if, that is, it may be deduced
from the fact that he has more than once tried to attach this epitheton ornans to the memory
of his grandfather. At Hamburg in 1891 he desired a statue to the Emperor William I to bear
the inscription "William the Great." The cool common sense of the cautious Hamburgers refused
to anticipate the decision of posterity and placed on the pedestal the simple words "William
the First." In deference to the Emperor's well-known wishes, if not at his request, the Hamburg-Amerika
line of steamers christened one of their ocean greyhounds Wilhelm der Grosse. The mere fact
that people discuss the question in his lifetime is of happy augury for the Emperor. Perhaps
some other epithet will be found for him. "Puffing Billy" is one of his titles among English
officers, taken from the name given locally to Stephenson's first locomotive. But history has
many ranks in her peerage and many epithets at her disposal--great, good, fair, lionhearted,
silent--that the Emperor will not have--and a host more. Maybe the greatest rulers were those
whom history, as though in despair of finding a single term with which to do them justice,
has refrained from decorating. Timur, Akbar, Attila, Julius Cæsar, Elizabeth, Victoria, Napoleon
have no epithets, and need none. However, it is clear that a verdict on the Emperor's deserts
is premature. Suppose him at the bar of history. The case is still proceeding, the evidence
is not complete, counsel have not been heard, and--most obvious defect of any--the jury has
not been impanelled.

More than half a century has passed since the Emperor was born. How time flies!

     "Alas, alas, O Postumus, Postumus,
     The years glide by and are lost to us, lost to us."

But not the memories they enshrine. It is, let us imagine, the night of the Emperor's Jubilee,
and he lies in the old Schloss, still awake, reflecting on the past. What a multitude of happenings,
gay and grave, throng to his recollection, what a glorious and crowded canvas unrolls itself
before his mental vision! The toy steamer on the Havel; the games in the palace corridors,
with the grim features of the Great Elector betrayed, one is tempted to think, into a half-smile
as he watches the innocent gaiety of the romping children from the old wainscoted walls; the
irksome but disciplinary hours in the Cassel schoolroom; the youthful escapades with those
carefree Borussian comrades at the university on the broad bosom of Father Rhine; the excursions
and picnics among the Seven Hills; the visits to England, its crowded and bustling capital,
its country seats with their pleasant lawns and stately oaks; the war-ships in the Solent,
with their black mass and frowning guns, as they towered, like Milton's Leviathan, above his head.

What a good time it was, and how rich in manifold and picturesque impressions!

It was the Lohengrin period, when, filled with the ardour and imaginativeness of high-souled
youth, the future Emperor was dimly thinking of all he would do in the days to come for the
happiness and prosperity of his people, nay, of all mankind.

Another tableau presents itself. Life has now become real and the Emperor's soldiering days
have begun--never to conclude! His regiment is his world; parades and drills, the orderly-room
and the barrack square occupy his time; and would seem monotonous and hard but for the little
Eden with its Eve close beside them.

The Emperor turns uneasily, for his thoughts recur to the painful circumstances of his accession;
but calmness soon succeeds as the curtain rises on the splendid panorama of the reign. He sees
himself, a young and hitherto unknown actor, leaving the wings and taking the very centre of
the stage, while the vast audience sits silent and attentive, as yet hardly grasping the significance
of his words and gestures, emphatic though they are. And then he recalls the years of Sturm
und Drang, the growth of Empire in spite of grudging rivals and of fellow-countrymen as yet
not wholly conscious of their destinies, which one can now see constituted a whole drama in
themselves, fraught with great consequences to the world.

But we are keeping the Emperor awake when he should be left to well-deserved repose. He has
doubtless half forgotten it all; the Bismarck episode is one of those

     "... old, unhappy, far-off things
     And battles long ago"

of which the poet sings. One unquiet political care excepted, all the rest must be pleasant
for him to remember--the rising with the dawn, the hurried little breakfast with the Empress,
the pawing horses of the adjutants and escort in the courtyard of the palace; the constant
travelling in and far beyond the Empire; the incessant speech-making, with its appeals to the
past and its promises, nobly realized, of "splendid days" in the future--its calls to the people
to arms, to the sea, to the workshop, to school, to church, to anything praiseworthy, provided
only it was action for the common good; the dockyards in Kiel and Danzig, with their noise
of "busy hammers closing rivets up"; the ever-swelling trade statistics; and the proud feeling
that at last his country was coming into her own.

Even the sensation the Emperor caused from time to time in other countries must have had a
certain charm for him--endless telegrams, endless scathing editorials, endless movement and
excitement. There is no fun like work, they say. The Emperor worked hard and enjoyed working.
It was the "personal regiment," maybe, and it could not last for ever; but while it did it
was doubtless very gratifying, and, notwithstanding all his critics say, magnificently successful.

Those strenuous times are long over, and if strenuous times have yet to come they will find
the Emperor alert and knowing better how to deal with them. He has, one may be sure, no thoughts
of well-earned rest or dignified repose--he probably never will, with his strong conception
of duty and his interest in the fortunes of his Empire. Still, he is a good deal changed. Time
has taught him more than his early tutor, worthy Dr. Hinzpeter, ever taught him; and if his
spring was boisterous, and his summer gusty and uncertain, a mellow autumn gives promise of
a hale and kindly winter.

INDEX

Abdul Aziz, 259.

Absolutism, 2, 295, 368 seq.

Accession, date, I; period, 69 seq.

Achilleion, 317.

Aegir, Song to, 224.

Agadir, 264 seq.

Alexandra, Queen, 327.

Algeciras Conference, 261 seq.;
  Act of, 262.

Alsace-Lorraine, 84 seq.

America,
  art exhibition, 222;
  Germany and, 238;
  Frederick the Great and, 242;
  squadron at Kiel, 244;
  commercial relations with, 331, 380 seq.

Anarchism, 42 seq.

Anglo-French Agreement, 1904, 259 seq.

Anglo-German Agreement,
  1890, 140;
  1904, 335;
  relations, 4-7, 243, 282, 335 seq.

Anglo-Japanese Agreement, 201.

Anti-Semites, 178.

Arbitration, compulsory, 340.

Aristocracy, German, 114.

Armament, limitation of, 340.

Army,
  accession speech to, 69;
  importance of, 71;
  true character of, 285;
  Emperor and, 294.

Art, Emperor on, 202, 205 seq.;
  speech to sculptors, 207;
  German ideals, 218.

Attempt on,
  Emperor, 202;
  on William I, 42.

Augusta, Empress, wife of William I, 43, 45.

Auguste, Victoria, present Empress, 37 seq.

"Babel und Bibel," 246.

Baghdad railway, 200.

Balkans, 339.

Ballin, 367.

Battenberg affair, 55.

Bebel, August, 58, 90, 359. See Social Democracy

Bennigsen, von, 13.

Berlin palace (Schloss), 114.

Bethmann Hollweg, 322 seq.

Biedermeier time, 167.

Bismarck, 13;
  Empress Fred. and, 44;
  William I and, 43 seq.;
  on Divine Right, 60 seq.;
  on foreign policy, 76;
  resignation, 104,133;
  Emperor and, 49, 131;
  "blood and iron" speech, 128;
  Emperor's account of quarrel with, 135;
  journey to Vienna, 141;
  death, 143.

"Bloc" party, 281, 288, 322.

Boer war, German policy and, 156, 303.

Bonn, Emperor at, 29; address at, 203.

Borussia, 30, 36, 203.

Bosnia and Herzegovina, 329.

Boulanger, 52, 76.

Boxer troubles, 46, 194 seq.

Brandon, 338.

"Brilliant second" speech, 279.

Brooks, Sydney, 361.

Bülow, Prince von, 47;
  succeeds Hohenlohe, 187;
  fainting fit, 322;
  resignation, 322.

Burgess, Prof., 241.

Butler, Dr. Nicholas Murray, 272.

Byzantinism, 121 seq.

Cadinen, 334.

Camarilla, 277

Caprivi, von, 141;
  treaties, 141, 152 seq.;
  chancellorship, 151.

Caroline Islands, 151.

Casablanca, 264.

Centrum, 3, 280.

Chamberlain, Mr., 158, 258.

Chamberlain, Stewart, 348.

Chancellor, "responsibility," 289 seq.

China,
  relations with, 193;
  Boxer indemnity, 197.

Chun, Prince, 197 seq.

Churchill, Winston, 337.

Colonial development, 148 seq.

Commercial treaties, 152; American, 331.

Conscription, 191.

Constitution, German and British compared, 57.

Corps, student, 30 seq.

Crefeld, 278.

Crown Prince, 14, 18;
  income, 112;
  marriage, 270;
  Indian tour, 328;
  at English coronation, 339;
  in aeroplane, 359.

Court,
  comparison with English, 109;
  nobility, 113.

Cowes, 75.

Daily Telegraph,
  interview, 302 seq.;
  text of, 304;
  Bülow and, 311 seq.;
  Emperor's undertaking, 310.

Delcassé, 261, 282.

Delitzsch, Prof., 246.

Dewey, Admiral, 170.

Dictator Paragraph, 86.

Diedrich, Admiral, 170.

Dingley tariff, 331.

Disarmament, 317.

Divine Right, 331 seq.

Dreibund, see Triple Alliance.

Dreyfus case, 178.

Dual Alliance.
  (Germany and Austria), 79;
  (Russia and France), 141.

Duel, see Mensur.

Dynasty, see Hohenzollern.

Education, Emperor on, 98 seq.

Edward VII,
  at Kiel, 253;
  visits Berlin, 323;
  funeral, 327.

Elector, Great, 64, 72.

Emperor,
  birth, 12;
  marriage, 37;
  brothers and sisters, 18;
  offspring, 40;
  first visit England, 20;
  at Bonn, 29;
  on Art, 207;
  and theatre, 355;
  on religion, 246;
  character, 363 seq.;
  and people, 368, 372.

Empress,
  present, marriage, 37;
  character, 39.

Farmer, Emperor as, 334.

Finance reform, 321.

Fleet, English, at Kiel, 253;
  American, 244. See Navy.

Flora bust, 324 seq.

Foreign policy, in Orient, 199 seq.;
  Emperor's, 269.

France, and Germany, 51;
  Franco-German Agreement, 1911, 266.

Frankfort, treaty of, 153.

Frederick the Great,
  death, 120;
  tomb, 121;
  and navy, 167;
  statue, 242;
  Emperor and, 251.

Frederick III, 14;
  as Crown Prince, 45;
  last illness, 54.

Frederick, Empress, 15 seq.;
  Bismarck and, 44;
  death, 204.

Future, "Our future lies on the water," 203.

General Elections, 280, 333.

"Germans to the Front," 245.

Germany,
  "Greater," 146;
  to-day, 366;
  foreign policy, 199, 269.

George V, 174, 237, 339.

George, Lloyd, speech, 336.

Goluchowski, Count, 279.

Goschen, Lord, 160.

Government, dynastic not democratic, 56 seq.

Great Elector,
  Emperor and, 72;
  German navy and, 166.

Grey, Sir Edward, 338.

Grieg, composer, 225; death, 287.

Griscom, ambassador, 319.

Guelphs, 333.

Guildhall, speech at,
  1891, 75;
  1907, 283.

Hamburg-Amerika line, 367.

Hannover, 333.

Harvard University, 272.

Heine, 13, 374.

Heligoland, 150.

Henry, Prince, 18;
  sent Kiautschau, 165;
  visits America, 241.

Highcliffe Castle, 285.

Hill, Dr. D.J., 318 seq.

Hinzpeter, Dr., 287.

Hödel, attempt, 43.

Hohenlohe-Schillingsfürst, Prince, 47;
  character, 153;
  chancellor, 185;
  resigns, 187.

Hohenzollern, 2, 11, 17, 23, 41, 56, 72;
  Divine Right and, 62 seq., 332.

Iltis, gunboat, 195.

Italy, 261 seq.

Jameson raid,
  Emperor's telegram on, 154;
  date of, 159.

Jews, Emperor and, 378.

Journalists, attack on, 329.

Junker, 123.

Ketteler, von, murder of, 195.

Kiautschau, 145, 150.

Kiel, canal, 144;
  first regatta, do.;
  harbour, 168;
  American squadron at, 244;
  Edward VII at, 253.

Koenigsberg, speech at, 332.

Kruger, telegram, the, 154 seq.;
  European tour, 155.

Kulturkampf, Emperor and, 50.

Labourdonnais, 167.

Labour Party, 93.

Leoncavallo, 253.

Liberalism, Emperor and, 126.

Liman, Dr. Paul, 62, 360.

Limitation of armaments, 340.

List, Prof., 168.

Lloyd George, speech, 336.

Louise, Queen, 41.

Luderitz, 149.

Mackenzie, Sir Morell, 16, 54.

Madrid Convention, 263.

Magna Charta, Germany's, 1.

Mahan, Captain, 164.

Manila, 170.

Marakesch, 264.

Marble Palace, 118.

"March Days," 128 seq.

Mensur, 29 seq.

Menzel,
  painter, 179;
  death, 255.

Moabit riots, 329.

Mommsen, Emperor and, 251.

Monroe doctrine, 240.

Morocco, 255 seq.

Navy, German,
  First Navy Law, 145;
  Prince William and, 163;
  early history of, 166;
  auctioned, 168;
  early proposals, 169 seq.;
  legislative stages, 171;
  Grey's proposal, 317.

New Palace, Potsdam, 116.

Nobiling, attempt, 42, 90. "November Storm," 289 seq.

Open door, The, 257.

"Our future lies on the water," 203.

Oxford university, 284.

Palestine, 145;
  journey to, 176.

Panther, 264.

Parliament, introduction;
  parliamentary rule, 58;
  chancellor and, 291;
  Emperor and, 294;
  See Reichstag.

"Personal regiment," 289, 296, 371.

Peters, Carl, 149.

"Place in the sun," 204.

Polypus, removed, 250.

Potsdam, 199.

Prussia, at Emperor's birth, 12;
  Diet, 293;
  electoral reform in, 316.

Quinquennat, 152.

Raid, Jameson, 159.

Rationalism, 344, 369.

Reaction, 123.

Realpolitik, see Weltpolitik;
  in sport, 357.

Rechtstaat, 369 seq.

Reichstag, introduction, 280, 292 333, 377.

Reinsurance treaty, 133.

Religion, Emperor on, 246.

Rhodes, Cecil, 284.

Richard, Prof., 370.

"Roland von Berlin," 253.

Roosevelt, Alice, 241;
  president, 253;
  visits Berlin, 325 seq.;
  professorships, 272.

Russia and Germany, relations, 80.

Russo-Japanese war, 252.

Saladin, 177.

Samoa, 151.

Sans Souci, 119, 179.

Sardanapalus, 235.

Septennat, 53, 152.

Seymour, Admiral, 195.

Shimonoseki, treaty of, 193.

"Shining armour," 328.

Social Democracy, introduction;
  Emperor and, 87;
  history of, 89;
  programme, 91;
  causes of, 94.
  Socialist laws, 103, 279 seq.

Socialism, 92; See Social Democracy.

Sport, in Germany, 357.

"Star of commerce," phrase, 165.

State, German interpretation of, 292.

Stein, Dr. Adolf, 158.

Stoessel, General, 195, 253.

Stone, Melville, 242.

Suffragettes, Emperor and, 332.

Sultan, promise to, 145, 177.

Swinemunde despatch, 244.

Taku Forts, 195.

Tangier, 256, 259;
  Emperor's speech at, 260, 268.

Theatre, Emperor on, 230;
  Germans and the, 254.

"Times," the, 297, 299, 301, 324.

Tirpitz, von, Admiral, 338.

Tower, ambassador, 318.

Trade Unionism, 92 seq.

Transvaal, 156 seq.; 303.

Tree, Sir Beerbohm, 287.

Treitschke, von, on Divine Right, 59;
  on Bismarck, 125.

Trench, Captain, 338.

Triple Alliance, Emperor on, 77;
  history of, 78;
  provisions, 79;
  renewals, 38, 339.

"Urias Letter," 142.

Universities, England and Germany compared, 98.

"Unser Fritz," 14.

Venezuela, 158, 239.

Victoria Louise, Princess, 333.

Victoria, Queen, 167;
  death, 201.

"Von Gottes Gnaden," 56 seq.;.
  doctrine to-day, 68.

Waldersee, Countess, 45;
  Count, 46, 196.

Weihaiwei, 194.

Weltpolitik, 51, 144;
  Bülow on, 147;
  open door and, 201;
  foreign policy and, 201, 192, 201, 203.

William I,
  career, 42;
  character, 43;
  death, 54;
  parliament and, 294.

Williams, George Valentine, 232.

Wyberg, Frank, 383.

Zeppelin, Count, 358.