Skrymir asked whether they might not be friends, and Thor agreeing, the giant opened his bag
and took out something to eat. Thor and his companions also made their morning meal, but eat
in another place. Then Skrymir, proposing that they should put their provisions together, and
Thor assenting to it, put all into one bag, and laying it on his shoulder marched before them,
with huge strides, during the whole day. At night he found a place where Thor and his companions
might rest under an oak. There, he said, he would lie down and sleep.

"You take the bag," said he, "and make your supper."

He was soon asleep, and, strange as it may seem, when Thor tried to open the bag he could not
untie a single knot nor loose the string. Enraged at this he seized his hammer, swayed it in
both his hands, took a step forward, and hurled it at the giant's head. This awoke the giant,
who asked him if a leaf had not fallen on his head, and whether they had finished their supper.
Thor said they were just about to lie down to sleep, and went to lie under another oak-tree.
About midnight, observing that Skrymir was snoring so loudly that the forest re-echoed the
din, Thor grasped his hammer and hurled it with such force at him that it sank up to the handle
in his head.

"What is the matter?" asked he, awakening. "Did an acorn fall on my head? How are you going
on, Thor?"

Thor departed at once, saying that it was only midnight and that he hoped to get some more
sleep yet. He resolved, however, to have a third blow at the giant, hoping that with this he
might settle everything. Seizing his hammer, he, with all his force, threw it at the giant's
cheek, into which it buried itself up to the handle. Skrymir, awaking, put his hand to his
cheek, and said--

"Are there any birds perched on this tree? I thought some moss fell upon me. How! art thou
awake, Thor? It is time, is it not, for us to get up and dress ourselves? You have not far,
however, to go before you arrive at the city Utgard. I have heard you whispering together that
I am a very tall fellow, but there you will see many larger than me. Let me advise you then
when you get there not to take too much upon yourselves, for the men of Utgard-Loki will not
bear much from such little folk as you. I believe your best way would even be to turn back
again, but if you are determined to proceed take the road that goes towards the east, as for
me mine now lies to the north."

After he had said this, he put his bag upon his shoulder and turned away into a forest; and
I could never hear that Thor wished him a good journey.

Proceeding on his way with his companions, Thor saw towards noon a city situated in the middle
of a vast plain. The wall of the city was so lofty that one could not look up to the top of
it without throwing one's head quite back upon the shoulder. On coming to the wall, they found
the gate-way closed with bars, which Thor never could have opened, but he and his companions
crept in between them, and thus entered the place. Before them was a large palace, and as the
door of it was open, they entered and found a number of men of enormous size, seated on benches.
Going on they came into the presence of the king, Utgard-Loki, whom they saluted with great
respect, but he, looking upon them for a time, at length cast a scornful glance at them, and
burst into laughter.

"It would take up too much time," said he, "to ask you concerning the long journey you have
made, but if I am not mistaken that little man there is Aku-Thor. You may," said he to Thor,
"be bigger than you seem to be. What are you and your companions skilled in that we may see
what they can do, for no one may remain here unless he understands some art and excels in it
all other men?"

"I," said Loki, "can eat quicker than any one else, and of that I am ready to give proof if
there is here any one who will compete with me."

"It must, indeed, be owned," replied the king, "that you are not wanting in dexterity, if you
are able to do what you say. Come, let us test it."

Then he ordered one of his followers who was sitting at the further end of the bench, and whose
name was Logi (Flame) to come forward, and try his skill with Loki. A great tub or trough full
of flesh meat was placed in the hall, and Loki having placed himself at one end of the trough,
and Logi having set himself at the other end, the two commenced to eat. Presently they met
in the middle of the trough, but Loki had only devoured the flesh of his portion, whereas the
other had devoured both flesh and bones. All the company therefore decided that Loki was beaten.

Then Utgard-Loki asked what the young man could do who accompanied Thor. Thjalfi said that
in running he would compete with any one. The king admitted that skill in running was something
very good, but he thought Thjalfi must exert himself to the utmost to win in the contest. He
rose and, accompanied by all the company, went to a plain where there was a good place for
the match, and then calling a young man named Hugi (Spirit or Thought), he ordered him to run
with Thjalfi. In the first race Hugi ran so fast away from Thjalfi that on his returning to
the starting-place he met him not far from it. Then said the king--

"If you are to win, Thjalfi, you must run faster, though I must own no man has ever come here
who was swifter of foot."

In the second trial, Thjalfi was a full bow-shot from the boundary when Hugi arrived at it.

"Very well do you run, Thjalfi," said Utgard-Loki; "but I do not think you will gain the prize.
However, the third trial will decide."

They ran a third time, but Hugi had already reached the goal before Thjalfi had got half-way.
Then all present cried out that there had been a sufficient trial of skill in that exercise.

Then Utgard-Loki asked Thor in what manner he would choose to give them a proof of the dexterity
for which he was so famous. Thor replied that he would contest the prize for drinking with
any one in the court. Utgard-Loki consented to the match, and going into the palace, ordered
his cup-bearer to bring the large horn out of which his followers were obliged to drink when
they had trespassed in any way against the customs of the court. Some men make two draughts
of it, but the most puny drinker of all can empty it in three."

Thor looked at the horn, which seemed very long, but was otherwise of no extraordinary size.

"You have drunk well," said Utgard-Loki; "but you need not boast. Had it been told me that
Asu-Thor could only drink so little, I should not have credited it. No doubt you will do better
at the second pull."

Without a word, Thor again set the horn to his lips and exerted himself to the utmost. When
he looked in it seemed to him that he had not drunk quite so much as before, but the horn could
now be carried without danger of spilling the liquor. Then Utgard-Loki said--

"Well, Thor, you should not spare yourself more than befits you in such drinking. If now you
mean to drink off the horn the third time it seems to me you must drink more than you have
done. You will never be reckoned so great a man amongst us as the Æsir make you out to be if
you cannot do better in other games than it appears to me you will do in this."

Thor, angry, put the horn to his mouth and drank the best he could and as long as he was able,
but when he looked into the horn the liquor was only a little lower. Then he gave the horn
to the cup-bearer, and would drink no more.

Then said Utgard-Loki--

"It is plain that you are not so mighty as we imagined. Will you try another game? It seems
to me there is little chance of your taking a prize hence."

"I will try more contests yet," answered Thor. "Such draughts as I have drunk would not have
seemed small to the Æsir. But what new game have you?"

Utgard-Loki answered--

"The lads here do a thing which is not much. They lift my cat up from the ground. I should
not have thought of proposing such a feat to Asu-Thor, had I not first seen that he is less
by far than we took him to be."

As he spoke there sprang upon the hall floor a very large grey cat. Thor went up to it and
put his hand under its middle and tried to lift it from the floor. The cat bent its back as
Thor raised his hands, and when Thor had exerted himself to the utmost the cat had only one
foot off the floor. Then Thor would make no further trial.

"I thought this game would go so," said Utgard-Loki. "The cat is large and Thor is little when
compared with our men."

"Little as you call me," answered Thor, "let any one come here and wrestle with me, for now
I am angry."

Utgard-Loki looked along the benches, and said--

"I see no man here who would not think it absurd to wrestle with you, but let some one call
here the old woman, my nurse, Elli, and let Thor wrestle with her, if he will. She has cast
to the ground many a man who seemed to me to be as strong as Thor."

Then came into the hall a toothless old woman, and Utgard-Loki told her to wrestle with Asu-Thor.
The story is not a long one. The harder Thor tightened his hold, the firmer the old woman stood.
Then she began to exert herself, Thor tottered, and at last, after a violent tussle, he fell
on one knee. On this Utgard-Loki told them to stop, adding that Thor could not desire any one
else to wrestle with him in the hall, and the night had closed in. He showed Thor and his companions
to seats, and they passed the night, faring well.

At daybreak the next morning, Thor and his companions rose, dressed themselves, and prepared
to leave at once. Then Utgard-Loki came to them and ordered a table to be set for them having
on it plenty of meat and drink. Afterwards he led them out of the city, and on parting asked
Thor how he thought his journey had prospered, and whether he had met with any stronger than
himself. Thor said he must own he had been much shamed.

"And," said he, "I know you will call me a man of little might, and I can badly bear that."

"Shall I tell you the truth?" said Utgard-Loki. "We are now out of the city, and while I live
and have my own way, you will never again enter it. By my word you had never come in had I
known before you had been so strong and would bring us so near to great misfortune. I have
deluded thee with vain shows; first in the forest, where I met you, and where you were unable
to untie the wallet because I had bound it with iron-thread so that you could not discover
where the knot could be loosened. After that you gave me three blows with your hammer. The
first blow, though the lightest, would have killed me had it fallen on me, but I put a rock
in my place which you did not see. In that rocky mountain you will find three dales, one of
which is very deep, those are the dints made by your hammer. In the other games, I have deceived
you with illusions. The first one was the match with Loki. He was hungry and eat fast, but
Logi was Flame, and he consumed not only the flesh but the trough with it. When Thjalfi contended
with Hugi in running, Hugi was my thought, and it was not possible for Thjalfi to excel that
in swiftness. When you drank of the horn and the liquor seemed to get lower so slowly, you
did, indeed, so well that had I not seen it, I should never have believed it. You did not see
that one end of the horn was in the sea, but when you come to the shore you will see how much
the sea has shrunk in consequence of your draughts, which have caused what is called the ebb.
Nor did you do a less wondrous thing when you lifted up the cat, and I can assure you all were
afraid when you raised one of its paws off the ground. The cat was the great Midgard serpent
which lies stretched round the whole earth, and when you raised it so high then did its length
barely suffice to enclose the earth between its head and tail. Your wrestling match with Elli
was, too, a great feat, for no one has there been yet, and no one shall there be whom old age
does not come and trip up, if he but await her coming. Now we must part, and let me say that
it will be better for both of us if you never more come to seek me, for I shall always defend
my city with tricks, so that you will never overcome me."

When Thor heard that he grasped his mace in a rage, and raised it to hurl it at Utgard-Loki,
but he had disappeared. Then Thor wanted to return to the city, but he could see nothing but
a wide fair plain. So he turned, and went on his way till he came to Thrudvang, resolving if
he had an opportunity to attack the Midgard serpent.

HOW THOR WENT A-FISHING.

Thor had not been long at home before he left it so hastily that he did not take his car, his
goats, or any follower with him. He left Midgard disguised as a young man, and when night was
coming on, arrived at the house of a giant, called Hymir. Thor stayed there as a guest for
the night, and when he saw in the morning that the giant rose, dressed himself, and prepared
to go out to sea-fishing in his boat, he begged him to let him go also. Hymir said he was too
little and young to be of much use.

"And besides," added he, "you will die of cold, if I go so far out and sit so long as I am
accustomed."

