PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 153.

NOVEMBER 14, 1917.

CHARIVARIA.

People are asking, "Can there be a hidden brain in the Foreign Office?"

       ***

A German posing as a Swiss, and stated by the police to be "a spy and a dangerous character,"
has been sentenced to six months' imprisonment. The matter will be further investigated pending
his escape.

       ***

Three men were charged at Old Street last week with attempting the "pot of tea" trick. The
trick apparently consists in finding a man with a pot of tea and giving him a sovereign to
go round the corner and buy a ham sandwich, the thief meanwhile offering to hold the pot of
tea. When the owner returns the tea has, of course, vanished.

       ***

The increased consumption of bread, says Sir ARTHUR YAPP, is due to the 9d. loaf. It would
just serve us right if bread cost 2s. 6d. a pound and there wasn't any, like everything else.

       ***

"It is all a matter of taste," says a correspondent of The Daily Mail, "but I think parsnips
are now at their best." They may be looking their best, but the taste remains the same.

       ***

Seventy tons of blackberries for the soldiers have been gathered by school-children in Buckinghamshire.
Arrangements have been made for converting this fruit into plum-and-apple jam.

       ***

"Home Ruler" was the occupation given by a Chertsey woman on her sugar-card application. The
FOOD CONTROLLER states that although this form of intimidation may work with the Government
it has no terrors for him.

       ***

The Russian Minister of Finance anticipates getting a revenue of forty million pounds from
a monopoly of tea. It is thought that he must have once been a grocer.

       ***

The Law Courts are to be made available as an air-raid shelter by day and night, and some of
our revue proprietors are already complaining of unfair competition.

       ***

Two survivors of the battle of Inkerman have been discovered at Brighton. Their inactivity
in the present crisis is most unfavourably commented on by many of the week-end visitors.

       ***

A dolphin nearly eight feet in length has been landed by a boy who was fishing at Southwold.
Its last words were that it hoped the public would understand that it had only heard of the
food shortage that morning.

       ***

Captain OTTO SVERDRUP, the Arctic explorer, has returned his German decorations. Upon hearing
this the KAISER at once gave orders for the North Pole to be folded up and put away.

       ***

A certain number of cold storage eggs at sixpence each are being released in Berlin and buyers
are urged to "fetch them promptly." In this connection several Iron Crosses have already been
awarded for acts of distinguished bravery by civilians.

       ***

One of the new toys for Christmas is a cat which will swim about in a bath. If only the household
cat could learn to swim it might be the means of saving several of its lives.

       ***

A correspondent would like to know whether the naval surgeon who recently described in The
Lancet how he raised "hypnotic blisters" by suggestion received his tuition from one of our
University riverside coaches.

       ***

We are asked to deny the rumour that Mr. JUSTICE DARLING, who last week cracked a joke which
was not understood by some American soldiers, has decided to do it all over again.

       ***

The power of music! An enterprising firm of manufacturers offers pensions to women who become
widows after the purchase of a piano on the instalment plan.

       ***

We understand that a Member of Parliament will shortly ask for a day to be set aside to inquire
into the conduct of Mr. PHILIP SNOWDEN, who is reported to have recently shown marked pro-British
tendencies.

       ***

In view of the attitude taken up by The Daily Express against Sir ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE, on the
question of "spooks," we understand that the celebrated author, who has long contemplated the
final death of Sherlock Holmes, has arranged that the famous detective shall one day be found
dead with a copy of The Daily Express in his hand.

       ***

A customer, we are told, may take his own buns into a public eating-house, but the proprietor
must register them. In view of the growing habit of pinching food, the pre-war custom of chaining
them to the umbrella-stand is no longer regarded as safe.

       *       *       *       *       *

 THE REV SULVANUS JONES WILL PREACH NEXT SUNDAY
MORNING ON WHAT'S WRONG WITH THE CHURCH?]

       *       *       *       *       *

INDIA MOVES.

DEAR MR. PUNCH,--The following is taken from a letter from the Quartermaster-General in India
to the General Officers Commanding Divisions and Independent Brigades:--

    "I am directed to point out that at present there appears to
    be considerable diversity of opinion regarding the number of
    buttons, and the method of placing the same on mattresses in
    use in hospitals.

    "I am therefore to request that in future all hospital mattresses
    should be made up with fifty-three buttons placed in fifteen rows
    of four and three alternately."

This should convince your readers that even India has at last grasped the idea of the War and
is getting a move on.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Mr. H. A. Barker, the bonesetter, performed a bloodless and
    successful operation yesterday upon Mr. Will Thorne's knee,
    which he fractured six years ago."--Sunday Paper.

If the case is correctly reported--which we doubt--it was very confiding of Mr. THORNE to go
to him again.

       *       *       *       *       *

MORE SORROWS OF THE SULTAN.

  Beersheba gone, and Gaza too!
    And lo! the British lion,
  After a pause to comb his mane,
  Is grimly padding off again,
    Tail up, en route for Zion.

  Yes, things are looking rather blue,
    Just as in Mesopotamy;
  My life-blood trickles in the sand;
  My veins run dry; I cannot stand
    Much more of this phlebotomy.

  In vain for WILLIAM'S help I cry,
    Sick as a mule with glanders;
  Too busy--selfish swine--is he
  With winning ground in Italy
    And losing it in Flanders.

  His missives urge me not to fly
    But use the utmost fury
  To hold these Christian dogs at bay
  And for his sake to block the way
    To his belovéd Jewry.

  "My feet," he wired, "have trod those scenes;
    Within the walls of Salem
  My sacred presence deigned to dwell,
  And I should hate these hounds of hell
    To be allowed to scale 'em.

  "So do your best to give them beans
    (You have some ammunition?),
  And at a less congested date
  I will arrive and consecrate
    Another German mission."

  That's how he wires, alternate days,
    But sends no troops to trammel
  The foe that follows as I bump
  Across Judæa on the hump
    Of my indifferent camel.

  Well, I have tried all means and ways,
    But seldom fail to foozle 'em;
  And now if WILLIAM makes no sign
  (This is his funeral more than mine)
    The giaours can have Jerusalem.

  O.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SUGAR FIEND.

"I will have a cup of tea," I said to the waitress, "China if possible; and please don't forget
the sugar."

"Yes, and what will you eat with I it?" she asked.

"What you please," I replied; "it is all horrible."

I do not take kindly to war-time teas. My idea of a tea is several cups of the best China,
with three large lumps of sugar in each, and half-a-dozen fancy-cakes with icing sugar all
over them and cream in the middle, and just a few cucumber sandwiches for the finish. (This
does sound humorous, no doubt, but I seek no credit for it. Humour used to depend upon a sense
of proportion. It now depends upon memory. The funniest man in England at the present moment
is the man who has the most accurate memory for the things he was doing in the early summer
of 1914).

The loss of the cakes I could bear stoically enough if they would leave my tea alone, or rather
if they would allow me a reasonable amount of sugar for it. However, we are an adaptable people
and there are ways in which even the sugar paper-dish menace can be met. My own plan, here
offered freely to all my fellow-sufferers, provides an admirable epitome of War and Peace.
The sugar allowance being about half what it ought to be, I take half of the cup unsweetened,
thus tasting the bitterness of war, and then I put in the sugar and bask in the sunshine of peace.

On this particular occasion peace was on the point of being declared when I found my attention
irresistibly compelled by the man sitting opposite to me, the only other occupant of my table.
At first I thought of asking him not to stare at me so rudely, and then I found that he was
not looking at me but over my shoulder at some object at the end of the room. I can resist
the appeal of three hundred people gazing into the sky at the same moment, but the intense
concentration of this man was too much for me. I turned round. Seeing nothing unusual I turned
back again, but it was too late. My sugar had gone! No trace of it anywhere, except in the
bubbles that winked suspiciously on the surface of the miscreant's tea.

His face did not belong to any of the known criminal types. It was a pale, dreamy, garden-suburb
sort of face--a face you couldn't possibly give in charge, except, perhaps, under the Military
Service Acts.

"Do you know," I said to him, "that you have just committed one of the most terrible offences
open to civilised mankind--a crime even worse (Heaven help me if I exaggerate) than trampling
on an allotment?"

"Oh, I'm sorry!" he replied, waking from his dream. "Did you want that sugar? You know, you
seemed to be getting on very well without it."

As I could not believe him to be beyond the reach of pity, I explained my method to him, describing
as harrowingly as I could the joy of those first few moments after the declaration of peace.
I suggested to him that he might sometimes find it useful himself, if ever he should be compelled
to sit at an unoccupied table. ("Touché," he murmured, raising his hat). "And now," I concluded,
"as I have told you my system, perhaps you will tell me yours--not for imitation, but for avoidance."

"There is very little to tell," he replied sorrowfully, "but it is tragic enough. All my life
I have been fond of sugar. Before the war I took always nine lumps to a cup of tea. (It was
my turn to raise my hat.) By a severe course of self-repression I have reduced it to seven,
but I cannot get below that. I have given up the attempt. There are a hundred cures for the
drink habit; there is not one for the sugar habit. As I cannot repress the desire, I have had
to put all my energy into getting hold of sugar. I noticed some time ago that at these restaurants
they give the sugar allowance to all customers who ask for tea or coffee, although perhaps
twenty per cent. of them do not take sugar at all. It is these people who supply me with the
extra sugar I need. In your case it was an honest mistake. I always wait to see if people are
proposing to use their sugar before I appropriate it."

"But if you only take from the willing," I inquired, "why do you not ask their permission?"

"I suppose I have given you the right to ask me that question," he replied with much dignity,
"but it is painful to me to have to answer it. I have not yet sunk so low that I have to beg
people for their cast-off sugar. I may come to it in the end, perhaps. At present the 'earnest
gaze' trick is generally sufficient, or, where it fails, a kick on the shin. But I hate cruelty."

"Physical cruelty," I suggested.

"No, any kind of cruelty. I have said that in your case I made a mistake. If I could repair
it I would."

"Well," I said, "here's something you can do towards it, although it's little enough." And
I handed him the ticket the waitress had written out for me. "And now I'll go and get a cup
of tea somewhere."

"One moment," he said, as I rose to go. "We may meet again."

"Never!" I said firmly.

"Ah, but we may, I have a number of disguises. Let me suggest something that will make another
mistake of this kind impossible."

"I am not going to give up my plan," I said.

"No, don't," he answered; "but why not drink the sugared half first?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Extract from an official letter received "Somewhere in France":--

    "It must be clearly understood that the numbers shown under the
    heading, 'Awaiting Leave' will be the number of all ranks who have
    not had leave to the United Kingdom since last arrival in this
    country, whether such arrival was their last return from Leave,
    or their last arrival in France."

And the Authorities are still wondering why the "Awaiting Leave" list tallied so exactly with
the daily strength.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MUD LARKS.

The ammunition columns on either flank provide us with plenty of amusement. They seem to live
by stealing each other's mules. My line-guards tell me that stealthy figures leading shadowy
donkeys are crossing to and fro all night long through my lines. The respective C.O.'s, an
Australian and an Irishman, drop in on us from time to time and warn us against each other.
I remain strictly neutral, and so far they have respected my neutrality. I have taken steps
toward this end by surrounding my horses with barbed wire and spring guns, tying bells on them
and doubling the guard.

Monk, the Australian, dropped in on us two or three days ago. "That darn Sinn Feiner is the
limit," said he; "lifted my best moke off me last night while I was up at the batteries. He'd
pinch BALAAM'S ass." We murmured condolences, but Monk waived them aside. "Oh, it's quite all
right. I wasn't born yesterday, or the day before for that matter. I'll make that merry Fenian
weep tears of blood before I've finished. Just you watch."

O'Dwyer, the merry Fenian, called next day.

"Give us a dhrink, brother-officers," said he, "I'm wake wid laughter."

We asked what had happened.

"Ye know that herrin'-gutted bush-ranger over yonder? He'd stale the milk out of your tea,
he would, be the same token. Well, last night he got vicious and took a crack at my lines.
I had rayson to suspect he'd be afther tryin' somethin' on, so I laid for him. I planted a
certain mule where he could stale it an' guarded the rest four deep. Begob, will ye believe
me, but he fell into the thrap head-first--the poor simple divil."

"But he got your mule," said Albert Edward, perplexed.

"Shure an' he did, you bet he did--he got old Lyddite."

Albert Edward and I were still puzzled.

"Very high explosive--hence name," O'Dwyer explained.

"Dear hearrts," he went on, "he's got my stunt mule, my family assassin! That long-ear has
twenty-three casualties to his credit, including a Brigadier. I have to twitch him to harness
him, side-line him to groom him, throw him to clip him, and dhrug him to get him shod. Perceive
the jest now? Esteemed comrade Monk is afther pinchin' an infallable packet o' sudden death,
an' he don't know it--yet."

"What's the next move?" I inquired.

"I'm going to lave him there. Mind you I don't want to lose the old moke altogether, because,
to tell the truth, I'm a biteen fond of him now that I know his thricks, but I figure Mr. Monk
will be a severely cured character inside a week, an' return the beastie himself with tears
an' apologies on vellum so long."

I met O'Dwyer again two days later on the mud track. He reined up his cob and begged a cigarette.

"Been havin' the fun o' the worrld down at the dressin'-station watchin' Monk's casualties
rollin' in," said he. "Terrible spectacle, 'nough to make a sthrong man weep. Mutual friend
Monk lookin' 'bout as genial as a wet hen. This is goin' to be a wondherful lesson to him.
See you later." He nudged his plump cob and ambled off, whistling merrily.

But it was Monk we saw later. He wormed his long corpse into "Mon Repos" and sat on Albert
Edward's bed laughing like a tickled hyena. "Funniest thing on earth," he spluttered. "A mule
strayed into my lines t'other night and refused to leave. It was a rotten beast, a holy terror;
it could kick a fly off its ears and bite a man in half. I don't mind admitting it played battledore
and what's-'is-name with my organisation for a day or two, but out of respect for O'Dwyer,
blackguard though he is, I ..."

"Oh, so it was O'Dwyer's mule?" Albert Edward cut in innocently.

Monk nodded hastily. "Yes, so it turned out. Well, out of respect for O'Dwyer I looked after
it as far as it would allow me, naturally expecting he'd come over and claim it--but he didn't.
On the fourth day, after it had made a light breakfast off a bombardier's ear and kicked a
gap in a farrier, I got absolutely fed up, turned the damn cannibal loose and gave it a cut
with a whip for godspeed. It made off due east, cavorting and snorting until it reached the
tank-track; there it stopped and picked a bit of grass. Presently along comes a tank, proceeding
to the fray, and gives the mule a poke in the rear. The mule lashes out, catching the tank
in the chest, and then goes on with his grazing without looking round, leaving the tank for
dead, as by all human standards it should have been, of course. But instead of being dead the
box of tricks ups and gives the donk another butt and moves on. That roused the mule properly.
He closed his eyes and laid into the tank for dear life; you could hear it clanging a mile away.

"After delivering two dozen of the best, the moke turned round to sniff the cold corpse, but
the corpse was still warm and smiling. Then the mule went mad and set about the tank in earnest.
He jabbed it in the eye, upper-cut it on the point, hooked it behind the ear, banged its slats,
planted his left on the mark and his right on the solar plexus, but still the tank sat up and
took nourishment.

"Then the donkey let a roar out of him and closed with it; tried the half-Nelson, the back
heel, the scissors, the roll, and the flying-mare; tried Westmoreland and Cumberland style,
collar and elbow, Cornish, Græco-Roman, scratch-as-scratch-can and Ju-jitsu. Nothing doing.
Then as a last despairing effort he tried to charge it over on its back and rip the hide off
it with his teeth.

"But the old tank gave a 'good-by ee' cough of its exhaust and rumbled off as if nothing had
happened, nothing at all. I have never seen such a look of surprise on any living creature's
face as was on that donk's. He sank down on his tail, gave a hissing gasp and rolled over stone
dead. Broken heart."

"Is that the end?" Albert Edward inquired.

"It is," said Monk; "and if you go outside and look half-right you'll see the bereaved Mr.
O'Dwyer, all got up in sack-cloth, cinders and crêpe rosettes, mooning over the deceased like
a dingo on an ash-heap." PATLANDER.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"FOR THE DURATION ..."

    "The forenoon service in the Parish Church will be at 11 o'clock
    instead of 11.15 on Sunday first, and will continue till further
    orders."--Scottish Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

AID FOR THE MILITARY POLICE.

    "The recruiting hut which is being erected in Trafalgar Square in
    connection with the campaign undertaken by the Ministry of Labour
    to recruit women for the Women's Army Auxiliary Cops will shortly
    be completed."--Sunday Pictorial.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "She was visited occasionally by a man of foreign appearance, who
    was believed to be her bother-in-law."--Ipswich Evening Star.

Probably one of those "strained relations" we so often read about.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "My Correspondent's bona fides are above suspicion."--"The
    Clubman" in "The Pall Matt Gazette."

One good fide deserves another, but of course the more the merrier.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

INVITATION.

  If you will come and stay with us you shall not want for ease;
  We'll swing you on a cobweb between the forest trees;
  And twenty little singing-birds upon a flowering thorn
  Shall hush you every evening and wake you every morn.

  If you will come and stay with us you need not miss your school;
  A learned toad shall teach you, high-perched upon his stool;
  And he will tell you many things that none but fairies know--
  The way the wind goes wandering and how the daisies grow.

  If you will come and stay with us you shall not lack, my dear,
  The finest fairy raiment, the best of fairy cheer;
  We'll send a million glow-worms out, and slender chains of light
  Shall make a shining pathway--then why not come to-night?

  R.F.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHRISTMAS FARE IN WAR-TIME.

    "Whatever the dinner be like, we can still have our fill of
    holly and mistletoe."--Star.

       *       *       *       *       *

IMITATION AIR-RAIDS.

Mr. Punch is glad to note that some real efforts are being made to meet the public needs in
this matter on nights when there is no attack by the enemy.

In particular the owners of certain large warehouses have come forward in a spirited manner
by giving directions for the banging of large folding-doors at suitable (irregular) hours.
Private individuals also, especially when returning home late at night, can do something in
the way of supplying entertainment for nervous residents in the neighbourhood. Much is expected,
too, of the large dairy companies, who, by their control of vast numbers of heavy milk-cans,
are in a peculiarly favoured position. By the manipulation of these vessels on a stone floor
a very complete imitation of a raid can be produced. A good deal, of course, can be done by
any ordinary householder. "I have had great fun," one correspondent writes, "with a very deliberate
and heavily-striking Dutch clock, which I have lately put against my party-wall. My neighbour's
family frequently jump up and run for the basement. When they get used to the thing I shall
give the other side a turn."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FIRE-DRILL.

Once a month, as laid down in "Orders for Auxiliary Hospitals for Officers," or some such document,
we practise fire-drill. This consists of escaping from upper windows by means of precarious
canvas chutes. The only people exempted from this ceremony are Mrs. Ropes--who watches with
great delight from a safe distance--and Sister, who stands sternly at the top to make sure
(a) that those patients who don't want to go down do go down, and (b) that those patients who
do want to go down don't go down more than once. No excuses are taken. The fixed ration is
one slither per chute per person.

We had this month's rehearsal last Tuesday. The patients were put through it first, Major Stanley--to
his great disgust--being chosen to lead the way and set his juniors an example. He was told
that it was possible, by sticking out his elbows, to go down as slowly as he liked; but he
must have done it wrong somehow, for he disappeared with startling suddenness the instant he
let go the window-sill, and almost simultaneously his boots shot out at the other end and doubled
Dutton the butler up so badly that he had to be taken away and reinflated.

Haynes, who came next, insisted on first making his dying speech from the window, for, as he
pointed out to Sister, when people allowed themselves to be inserted alive into machines of
this type there was every likelihood of their reappearing at the other end in the form of sausages.
Seymour handed Sister a bulky package labelled "WILL" before starting, and most of us managed
to be mildly humorous in some way or other.

Mrs. Ropes, on the lawn, enjoyed it all immensely; and so did Ansell, who was standing beside
her with an air of detachment. Sister's eagle eye singled him out.

"Come along, Mr. Ansell," she called. "I see you--your turn next. No shirking."

"I'm not in this, Sister," he answered loftily.

"Oh, indeed! And why not?"

"Because I sleep on the verandah. If there's a fire I simply get out of bed and step into the
garden."

"Oh, no, you don't," put in Seymour. "That would be entirely contrary to regulations. The official
method of escaping from burning buildings is down the official chute. In case of fire your
correct procedure will be to double smartly upstairs, commend your soul to Providence in a
soldier-like manner, and toboggan smartly down."

(Have I mentioned that Seymour is an Adjutant?)

"That's right, Captain Seymour," said Sister from above. "Bring him up under escort if necessary."

After the patients came Miss Ropes, and after her the domestic staff, beginning with the less
valuable members and working up gradually to Dutton and Cook. It was possible to trace the
progress of the younger and slighter maids by a swiftly-descending squeal, while that of the
more portly was visible as a leisurely protuberance. At last Cook was the only one left--Dutton
was not feeling quite up to performing the journey. She was a new cook, and very precious.
She had all the generous proportions of her profession, and with them went a placid temper
and a great sense of personal dignity.

"Oh, Cook," said Miss Ropes, "you needn't go down, you know, unless you want to."

There are times when official regulations must be sacrificed to diplomacy. But Cook was in
high good humour, and quite determined on doughty deeds. Miss Ropes said no more.

The task of getting a wide cook into a narrow canvas tube proved quite unexpectedly difficult;
and, when it was accomplished, so far from sticking out her elbows as brakes, she had to press
them close to her sides in order to move at all. With the aid of a friendly pressure applied
to the top of her head by Sister she got slowly under way. The chute bulged portentously. The
bulge travelled a few feet; then it stuck and became violently agitated. Sister clutched at
the top of the chute, while Dutton hung manfully on to the other end.

"Don't struggle," said Sister in a stern professional voice. "Keep your arms still, and you'll
come down all right." A muffled screaming and a dangerously increased agitation of the chute
was the only reply. Cook had quite lost her head and was having violent hysterics. Three or
four of us raced upstairs to aid Sister in keeping the top end of the apparatus from jerking
free, while several more went to the assistance of the flustered Dutton.

Cook ceased to struggle for a moment, but only through exhaustion; for when Sister seized the
opportunity to repeat her advice a fresh paroxysm came on, and everybody "stood to" at their
posts again. Miss Ropes conceived the idea of attaching a cord to Cook's armpits and hauling
her up again by main force. She dashed into the house, and found a demoralised kitchen-maid
calling incoherently for help down the telephone.

