Some of the species have nocturnal habits and are very timid, flying to their burrows the moment
they hear a noise. Other species quit their retreat equally by day and night, and these are
said not to be so rapid in their motions as the others. All the species walk quickly, but they
can neither leap, run, nor climb; so that, when pursued, they can only escape by hiding themselves
in their holes; if these be too far off, the poor hunted creatures dig a hole before they are
overtaken, and with their strong snout and fore claws in a few moments conceal themselves.
Sometimes, however, before they are quite concealed, they are caught by the tail, when they
struggle so powerfully that the tail often breaks short, and is left in the hands of the pursuers.
To prevent this the hunter tickles the animal with a stick, till it looses its hold, and allows
itself to be taken without further resistance. At other times, when pursued, and finding flight
ineffectual, the Armadillos withdraw the head under the edge of the buckler of the shoulders;
their legs, except the feet, are naturally hidden by the borders of the bucklers and the bands;
they then contract the body as far towards the shape of a ball as the stretching of the membrane
which unites the different movable pieces of the armour will permit.[8] Thus defended, they
frequently escape danger; but if near a precipice, the animal will sometimes roll itself over,
and in this case, says Molina, in his Natural History of Chili, it generally falls to the bottom
unhurt.

    [8] It should here be observed that the Three-banded Armadillo
    is remarkable for the faculty of rolling itself up more
    completely than the other species. It can, in so doing, totally
    conceal the head, the tail, and the fore feet, which none of the
    other species can completely effect.--Cuvier.

Armadillos were formerly thought to feed exclusively on vegetables; but they have since been
found to devour insects and flesh. The directions of their burrows evince that they search
after ant heaps, and the insects quickly disappear from near the hole of an Armadillo. The
largest species, the great black Armadillo, common in the forests of Paraguay, feeds on the
carcasses of animals; and the graves of the dead which are necessarily formed at a distance
from the usual places of sepulture, in countries where the great Armadillo is found, are protected
by strong double boards to prevent the animal from penetrating and devouring the body. It appears,
also, that it eats young birds, eggs, snakes, lizards, &c. The Indians are very fond of the
flesh of the Armadillo as food, especially when young; but, when old, it acquires a strong
musky flavour. Mr. Waterton, who tasted the flesh, considered it strong and rank. The shells
or crusts are applied to various useful purposes, and painted of different colours are made
into boxes, baskets, &c.

Cuvier remarks that that old mode of distinguishing the species of Armadillos by the number
of the bands is clearly objectionable, inasmuch as D'Azara has established that not only the
number of these bands varies, in the different individuals of the same species, but further,
that there are individuals of different species which have the same number of bands. Eight
species mentioned by D'Azara are admitted as distinct, but the whole number is very doubtful.

(The species represented in the Cut,[9] or, the Nine-banded, is the most common. In the Zoological
Gardens, in the Regent's Park, and in Surrey, are several specimens. They are usually kept
in cages, but on fine sunny days are let out upon the turf. Their general pace may here be
seen to advantage: it is a sort of quick shuffling walk, and they get over the ground easily,
notwithstanding the weight of their shelly covering.)

    [9] From a specimen figured in Dr. Shaw's Zoological Lectures,
    with plates, by Mrs. Griffith, vol. i.

In conclusion, it is interesting to remark that the whole series of these very singular animals
offers a notable example of one genus being confined to a particular country. We have observed
that they all belong to South America; nor do we find that in any parts of the old world, or,
indeed, in the great northern division of the new, any races of quadrupeds at all to resemble
them, or in any manner to be compared with them. They may be said to stand perfectly insulated;
they exhibit all the characters of a creation entirely distinct, and except as to the general
characters of mammiferous quadrupeds, perfectly of their own kind. There is no break in the
whole circle of them, no deviation or leaning towards any other organized form; so that the
boldest conjecture will hardly venture to guess at any other than a separate creation for these
animals, and a distinct allocation in South America. This peculiarity is rendered the more
striking by the facility with which it seems to endure removal, even to our latitudes; thereby
proving that its present confined identity with South America is not altogether the result
of its physical necessities.[10]

    [10] Popular Zoology. Comprising Memoirs and Anecdotes of the
    Animals of the Zoological Society's Menagerie. With many
    Engravings. 1832.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLIMATE OF CANADA.

From Sketches, by a Backwoodsman.

It never has been accountable to me, how the heat of the sun is regulated. There is no part
of Upper Canada that is not to the south of Penzance, yet there is no part of England where
the cold is so intense as in Canada; nay, there is no cold in England equal to the cold of
Virginia, which, were it on the European side of the hemisphere, would be looked upon as an
almost tropical climate. To explain to an European what the climate of Upper Canada is, we
would say, that in summer it is the climate of Italy, in winter that of Holland; but in either
case we should only be giving an illustration, for in both winter and summer it possesses peculiarities
which neither of these two climates possess. The summer heat of Upper Canada generally ranges
towards 80° Fahrenheit; but should the wind blow twenty-four hours steadily from the north,
it will fall to 40° during the night. The reason of this seems to be the enormous quantity
of forest over which that wind blows, and the leaves of the trees affording such an extensive
surface of evaporation. One remarkable peculiarity in the climate of Canada, when compared
with those to which we have likened it, is its dryness. Far from the ocean, the salt particles
that somehow or other exist in the atmosphere of sea-bounded countries are not to be found
here; roofs of tinned iron of fifty years' standing are as bright as the day they came out
of the shop; and you may leave a charge of powder in your gun for a month, and find, at the
end of it, that it goes off without hanging fire. The diseases of the body, too, that are produced
by a damp atmosphere, are uncommon here. It may be a matter of surprise to some to hear, that
pectoral and catarrhal complaints, which, from an association of ideas they may connect with
cold, are here hardly known. In the cathedral at Montreal, where from three to five thousand
people assemble every Sunday, you will seldom find the service interrupted by a cough, even
in the dead of winter and in hard frost; whereas, in Britain, from the days of Shakspeare,
even in a small country church, "coughing drowns the parson's saw." Pulmonary consumption,
too, the scourge alike of England and the sea-coast of America, is so rare in the northern
parts of New York and Pennsylvania, and the whole of Upper Canada, that in eight years' residence
I have not seen as many cases of the disease as I have in a day's visit to a provincial infirmary
at home. The only disease we are annoyed with here, that we are not accustomed to at home,
is the intermittent fever,--and that, though most abominably annoying, is not by any means
dangerous: indeed, one of the most annoying circumstances connected with it is, that, instead
of being sympathized with, you are only laughed at. Otherwise the climate is infinitely more
healthy than that of England. Indeed, it may be pronounced the most healthy country under the
sun, considering that whisky can be procured for about one shilling sterling per gallon. Though
the cold of a Canadian winter is great, it is neither distressing nor disagreeable. There is
no day during winter, except a rainy one, in which a man need be kept from his work. It is
a fact, though as startling as some of the dogmas of the Edinburgh school of political economy,
that the thermometer is no judge of warm or cold weather. Thus, with us in Canada, when it
is low, (say at zero,) there is not a breath of hair, and you can judge of the cold of the
morning by the smoke rising from the chimney of a cottage, and shooting up straight like the
steeple of a church, then gradually melting away in the beautiful clear blue of the morning
sky: yet in such weather it is impossible to go through a day's march in your great coat; whereas,
at home, when the wind blows from the north-east, though the thermometer stands at from 55°
to 60° you find a fire far from oppressive. The fact is, that a Canadian winter is by far the
pleasantest season of the year, for everybody is idle, and everybody is determined to enjoy
himself. Between the summer and winter of Canada, a season exists, called the Indian summer.
During this period, the atmosphere has a smoky, hazy effect, which is ascribed by the people
generally to the simultaneous burning of the prairies of the western part of the continent.
This explanation I take to be absurd; since, if it were so to be accounted for, the wind must
necessarily blow from that quarter, which is not in all instances the case. During this period,
which generally occupies two or three weeks of the month of November, the days are pleasant,
and with abundance of sunshine, and the nights present a cold, clear, black frost. When this
disappears, the rains commence, which always precede winter; for it is a proverb in the Lower
Province, among the French Canadians, that the ditches never freeze till they are full. Then
comes the regular winter, which, if rains and thaws do not interfere, is very pleasant; and
that is broken up by rains again, which last until the strong sun of the middle of May renders
everything dry and in good order. A satirical friend of mine gave a caricature account of the
climate of the province, when he said that, for two months of the spring and two months of
the autumn, you are up to your middle in mud; for four months of summer you are broiled by
the heat, choked by the dust, and devoured by the mosquitoes; and for the remaining four months,
if you get your nose above the snow, it is to have it bit off by the frost.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PUBLIC JOURNALS

       *       *       *       *       *

AN INCIDENT IN THE LIFE OF A RASCAL.

"His name is never heard."

Late one evening, a packet of letters, just arrived by the English mail, was handed to Mynheer
Von Kapell, a merchant of Hamburgh. His head clerk awaited, as usual, for any orders which
might arise from their contents; and was not a little surprised to observe the brow of his
wealthy employer suddenly clouded; again and again he perused the letter he held, at last audibly
giving vent to his feelings--

"Donder and blitzen!" he burst forth, "but this is a shock, who would have thought it? The
house of Bennett and Ford to be shaken thus! What is to be done?"

"Bennett and Ford failed!"' cried the astonished clerk.

"Failed! ten thousand devils! not so bad as that; but they are in deep distress, and have suffered
a heavy loss; but read, good Yansen! and let me have your advice."

The clerk read as follows:--

"London, August 21st.

"Most respected friend,

"Yours of the 5th inst. came safe to hand, and will meet prompt attention. We have to inform
you, with deep regret, that the son of the trustworthy cashier of this long-established house
has absconded, taking with him bills accepted by our firm, to a large amount, as per margin;
and a considerable sum in cash. We have been able to trace the misguided young man to a ship
bound for Holland, and we think it probable he may visit Hamburgh, (where our name is so well
known and, we trust, so highly respected) for the purpose of converting these bills into cash.
He is a tall, handsome youth, about five feet eleven inches, with dark hair and eyes; speaks
French and German well, and was dressed in deep mourning, in consequence of the recent death
of his mother. If you should be able to find him, we have to request you will use your utmost
endeavours to regain possession of the bills named in the margin; but, as we have a high respect
for the father of the unfortunate young man, we will further thank you to procure for him a
passage on board the first vessel sailing for Batavia, paying the expense of his voyage, and
giving him the sum of two hundred louis d'or, which you will place to our account current,
on condition that he does not attempt to revisit England till he receives permission so to do.

"We are, most respected friend,

"Your obedient servants,

"BENNETT, FORD, AND CO.

"Mynheer Von Kapell."

"My life on't," said Yansen, "'tis the very lad I saw this day, walking up and down in front
of the Exchange, who appeared half out of his wits; looking anxiously for some particular object,
yet shunning general observation: his person answers the description."

"That's fortunate," said the merchant, "you must devote the morrow to searching for him; bring
him to me if possible, and I'll do my utmost to serve my excellent friends, Bennett and Ford
of London."

Early next morning, Yansen went to the Exchange, and kept an anxious watch for many hours in
vain; he was returning hopeless, when he saw the identical youth coming out of the door of
a Jew money-changer; he brushed hastily past him, exclaiming, "The unconscionable scoundrel!
seventy per cent, for bills on the best house in England!"

Yansen approached him. "Young gentleman," said he, in a very mild tone, "you appear to have
met with some disappointment from that griping wretch, Levi. If you have any business to transact,
my house is close by; I shall be happy to treat with you."

"Willingly," replied the youth, "the sooner the better. I must leave Hamburgh at day-break."

The clerk led him to the house of the merchant, and entered it by a small side door, desiring
the young man to be seated, whilst he gave some directions. In a few minutes he reappeared,
bringing Von Kapell with him. The worthy Hamburgher having no talent for a roundabout way of
doing business, said bluntly, "So Mynheer! we are well met; it will be useless to attempt disguise
with me; look at this!" and he put into his hand the letter he had the night before received.

Overwhelmed with consternation, the young man fell at his feet.

"Oh heaven!" he cried, "I am lost for ever--my father, my indulgent, my honourable father,
is heart-broken and disgraced by my villany. My mother!" Here he became nearly inaudible, and
hid his face in his hands. "You," he continued, "are spared all participation in the agony
your wretched son is suffering."

"Boy, boy!" said the merchant, raising him, and quite melted at this show of penitence, "listen
to me! are the bills safe? if so, you may still hope."

