My folks was bought from a speculator drove come by. They come from Sanders in South Ca'lina.
Master Charlie Cannon bought a whole drove of us, both my grandparents on both sides. He had
five farms, big size farms. Saturday was ration day.

"Our master built us a church in our quarters and sont his preacher to preach to us. He was
a white preacher. Said he wanted his slaves to be Christians.

"I never went to school in my life. I was taught by the fireside to be obedient and not steal.

"We et outer trays hewed out of logs. Three of us would eat together. We had wooden spoons
the boys made whittling about in cold rainy weather. We all had gourds to drink outer. When
we had milk we'd get on our knees and turn up the tray, same way wid pot-liquor. They give
the grown up the meat and us pot-liquor.

"Pa was a blacksmith. He got a little work from other plantations. The third year of the surrender
he bought us a cow. The master was dead. He never went to war. He went in the black jack thickets.
His sons wasn't old enough to go to war. Pa seemed to like ole master. The overseer was white
looking like the master but I don't know if he was white man or nigger. Ole master wouldn't
let him whoop much as he pleased. Master held him off on whooping.

"When the master come to the quarters us children line up and sit and look at him. When he'd
go on off we'd hike out and play. He didn't care if we look at him.

"My pa was light about my color. Ma was dark. I heard them say she was part Creek (Indian).

"Folks was modester before the children than they are now. The children was sent to play or
git a bucket cool water from the spring. Everything we said wasn't smart like what children
say now. We was seen and not heard. Not seen too much or somebody be stepping 'side to pick
up a brush to nettle our legs. Then we'd run and holler both.

"Now and then a book come about and it was hid. Better not be caught looking at books.

"Times wasn't bad 'ceptin' them speculator droves and way they got worked too hard and frailed.
Some folks was treated very good, some killed.

"Folks getting mean now. They living in hopes and lazing about. They work some."

Interviewer: Bernice Bowden
Person Interviewed: Zenie Cauley
                    1000 Louisiana
                    Pine Bluff, Ark.
Age: 78
[-- 7 1938]

"I member when they freed the people.

"I was born in Bedie Kellog's yard and I know she said, 'Zenie, I hate to give you up, I'd
like to keep you.' But my mother said, 'No, ma'am, I can't give Zenie up.'

"We still stayed there on the place and I was settled and growed up when I left there.

"I'm old. I feels my age too. I may not look old but I feels it.

"Yes ma'am, I member when they carried us to church under bresh arbors. Old folks had rags
on their hair. Yes'm, I been here.

"My father was a Missionary Baptist preacher and he was a preacher. Didn't know 'A' from 'B'
but he was a preacher. Everbody knowed Jake Alsbrooks. He preached all over that country of
North Carolina. They'd be as many white folks as colored. They'd give him money and he never
called for a collection in his life. Why one Sunday they give him sixty-five dollars to help
buy a horse.

"Fore I left the old county, I member the boss man, Henry Grady, come by and tell my mother,
'I'm gwine to town now, have my dinner ready when I come back--kill a chicken.' She was one
of the cooks. Used to have us chillun pick dewberries and blackberries and bring em to the house.

"Yes, I done left there thirty-six years--will be this August.

"When we was small, my daddy would make horse collars, cotton baskets and mattresses at night
and work in the field in the daytime and preach on Sunday. He fell down in Bedie Kellog's lot
throwin' up shucks in the barn. He was standin' on the wagon and I guess he lost his balance.
They sent and got the best doctor in the country and he said he broke his nabel string. They
preached his funeral ever year for five years. Seemed like they just couldn't give him up.

"White folks told my mother if she wouldn't marry again and mess up Uncle Jake's chillun, they'd
help her, but she married that man and he beat us so I don't know how I can remember anything.
He wouldn't let us go to school. Had to work and just live like pigs.

"Oh, I used to be a tiger bout work, but I fell on the ice in 'twenty-nine and I ain't never
got over it. I said I just had a death shock.

"I never went to school but three months in my life. Didn't go long enough to learn anything.

"I was bout a mile from where I was born when I professed religion. My daddy had taught us
the right way. I tell you, in them days you couldn't join the church unless you had been changed.

"I come here when they was emigratin' the folks here to Arkansas."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Liney Chambers, Brinkley, Arkansas Age:

[TR: Some word pronunciation was marked in this interview. Letters
 surrounded by [] represent long vowels.]

"I was born in Tennessee close to Memphis. I remember seein' the Yankees. I was most too little
to be very scared of them. They had their guns but they didn't bother us. I was born a slave.
My mother cooked for Jane and Silas Wory. My mother's name was Caroline. My father's name was
John. An old bachelor named Jim Bledsoe owned him. When the war was over I don't remember what
happened. My mother moved away. She and my father didn't live together. I had one brother,
Proctor. I expect he is dead. He lived in California last I heard of him.

"They just expected freedom all I ever heard. I know they didn't expect the white folks to
give them no land cause the man what owned the land bought it hisself foe he bought the hands
whut he put on it. They thought they was ruined bad enouf when the hands left them. They kept
the land and that is about all there was left. Whut the Yankees didn't take they wasted and
set fire to it. They set fire to the rail fences so the stock would get out all they didn't
kill and take off. Both sides was mean. But it seemed like cause they was fightin' down here
on the Souths ground it was the wurst here. Now that's just the way I sees it. They done one
more thing too. They put any colored man in the front where he would get killed first and they
stayed sorter behind in the back lines. When they come along they try to get the colored men
to go with them and that's the way they got treated. I didn't know where anybody was made to
stay on after the war. They was lucky if they had a place to stay at. There wasn't anything
to do with if they stayed. Times was awful unsettled for a long time. People whut went to the
cities died. I don't know they caught diseases and changing the ways of eatin' and livin' I
guess whut done it. They died mighty fast for awhile. I knowed some of them and I heard 'em
talking.

"That period after the war was a hard time. It sho was harder than the depression. It lasted
a long time. Folks got a lots now besides what they put up with then. Seemed like they thought
if they be free they never have no work to do and jess have plenty to eat and wear. They found
it different and when it was cold they had no wood like they been used to. I don't believe
in the colored race being slaves cause of the color but the war didn't make times much better
for a long time. Some of them had a worse time. So many soon got sick and died. They died of
Consumption and fevers and nearly froze. Some near 'bout starved. The colored folks just scattered
'bout huntin' work after the war.

"I heard of the Ku Klux but I never seen one.

"I never voted. I don't believe in it.

"I never heard of any uprisings. I don't know nobody in that rebellion (Nat Turner).

"I used to sing to my children and in the field.

"I lived on the farm till I come to my daughters to live. I like it better then in town. We
homesteaded a place at Grunfield (Zint) and my sister bought it. We barely made a living and
never had money to lay up.

"I don't know what they'll (young generation) do. Things going so fast. I'm glad I lived when
I did. I think it's been the best time for p[o]r folks. Some now got too much and some not
got nothin'. That what I believe make times seem so hard."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Willie Buck Charleston, Jr., Biscoe,
Arkansas Age: 74

"I was born up here on the Biscoe place before Mr. Biscoe was heard of in this country. I'm
for the world like my daddy. He was light as I is. I'm jus' his size and make. There was three
of us boys. Dan was the oldest; he was my own brother, and Ed was my half-brother. My daddy
was a fellar of few words and long betwix' 'em. He was in the Old War (Civil War). He was shot
in his right ankle and never would let it be took out. Mother had been a cook. She and my grandmother
was sold in South Carolina and brought out here. Mother's name was Sallie Harry. Judging by
them being Harrys that might been who owned them before they was sold. She was about as light
as me. Mother died when I was a litter bit er of a fellar. Then me and Dan lived from house
to house. Grandma Harry and my Aunt Mat and Jesse Dove raised us. My daddy married right er
way ag'in.

"I recollect mighty little about the war. We lived back in the woods and swamps. I was afraid
of the soldiers. I seen them pass by. I was so little I can barely recollect seeing them and
hiding from them.

"When we lived over about Forrest City I seen the Ku Klux whoop Joe Saw and Bill Reed. It was
at night. They was tied to trees and whooped with a leather snake whoop. I couldn't say how
it come up but they sure poured it on them. There was a crowd come up during the acting. I
was scared to death then. After then I had mighty little use for dressed-up folks what go around
at night (Ku Klux). I can tell you no sich thing ever took place as I heard of at Biscoe. We
had our own two officers and white officers and we get along all the time tollerably well together."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Lewis Chase; Des Arc, Arkansas Age: 90?

"When de Civil War goin on I heard lots folks talking. I don't know what all they did say.
It was a war mong de white folks. Niggers had no say in it. Heap ob them went to wait on their
masters what went to fight. Niggers didn't know what the fight war bout. Yankey troops come
take everything we had made, take it to the Bluff (DeValls Bluff), waste it and eat it. He
claim to be friend to the black man an do him jes dater way. De niggers what had any sense
tall stuck to the white folks. Niggers what I knowed didn't spec nothin an they sho didn't
get nothin but freedom.

"I was sold. Yes mam I sho was. Jes put up on a platform and auctioned off. Sold right here
in Des Arc. Nom taint right. My old mistress [Mrs. Snibley] whoop me till I run off and they
took me back when they found out where I lef from. I stayed way bout two weeks.

"One man I sho was glad didn't get me cause he whoop me. N[o]'[o]m he didn't get me. I heard
him puttin up the prices and I sho hope he didn't get me.

"I don't know whar I come from. Old Missus Snibley kept my hat pulled down over my face so
I couldn't see de way to go back. I didn't want to come and I say I go right back. Whar I set,
right between old missus and master on de front seat ob de wagon and my ma set between missus
Snibley's two girls right behind us. I recken it was a covered wagon. The girls name was Florence
and Emma. Old master Snibley never whip me but old Missus sho did pile it on me. Noom I didn't
lack her. I run away. He died f[o] the war was over. I did leave her when de war was over.

"I saw a heap ob bushwhackers and carpet bagger but I nebber seed no Ku Klux. I heard battles
of the bushwhackers out at the Wattensaw bridge [Iron bridge]. I was scared might near all
de time for four years. Noom I didn't want no soldiers to get me.

"I recken I wo long britches when de war started cause when I pulled off dresses I woe long
britches. Never wo no short ones. Nigger boys and white boys too wore loose dresses till they
was four, five or six years old in them times. They put on britches when they big nough to
help at the field.

"I worked at the house and de field. I'se farmed all my life.

"I vote [HW: many] a time. I don't know what I vote. Noom I don't! I recken I votes Democrat,
I don't know. It don't do no good. Noom I ain't voted in a long time. I don't know nothin bout
votin. I never did.

"Noom I never owned no land, noom no home neither. I didn't need no home. The man I worked
for give me a house on his place. I work for another man and he give me a house on his land.
I owned a horse one time. I rode her.

"I don't know nuthin bout the young generation. I takes care bout myself. Dats all I'm able
to do now. Some ob dem work. Nom they don't work hard as I did. I works now hard as they do.
They ought to work. I don't know what going to become ob them. I can't help what they do.

"The times is hard fo old folks cause they ain't able to work and heap ob time they ain't no
work fo em to do.

"Noom I lived at Bells, Arkansas for I come to Hickory Plains and Des Arc. I don't know no
kin but my mother. She died durin the war. Noom not all de white folks good to the niggers.
Some mean. They whoop em. Some white folks good. Jes lak de niggers, deres some ob em mighty
good and some ob em mean.

"I works when I can get a little to do and de relief gives me a little.

"I am er hundred years old! Cause I knows I is. White folks all tell you I am."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Katherine Clay, Forrest City, Arkansas
Age: 69

"I was born in West Point, Mississippi. My folks' owners was Master Harris and Liddie Harris.
My parent's name was Sely Sikes. She was mother of seven children. Papa was name Owen Sikes.
He never was whooped. They had different owners. Both my grandparents was dead on both sides.
I never seen them.

"Mama said her owners wasn't good. Her riding boss put a scar on her back she took to her grave.
It was deep and a foot long. He wanted to whoop her naked. He had the colored men hold her
and he whooped her. She run off and when her owner come home she come to him at his house and
told him all about it. She had been in the woods about a week she reckon. She had a baby she
had left. The old mistress done had it brought to her. She was nursing it. She had a sicking
baby of her own. She kept that baby. Mama said her breast was way out and the doctor had to
come wait on her; it nearly ruined.

"Mama said her master was so mad he cursed the overseer, paid him, and give him ten minutes
to leave his place. He left in a hurry. That was her very first baby. She was raising a family,
so they put her a nurse at the house. She had been ploughing. She had big fine children. They
was proud of them. She raised a big family. She took care of all her and Miss Liddie's babies
and washed their hippins. Never no soap went on them she said reason she had that to do. Another
woman cooked and another woman washed.

"Mama said she was sold once, away from her mother but they let her have her four children.
She grieved for her old mama, 'fraid she would have a hard time. She sold for one thousand
dollars. She said that was half price but freedom was coming on. She never laid eyes on her
mama ag'in.

