"No man," says a writer in a daily paper, "can sit down and see a girl standing in a crowded
Tube train." This no doubt accounts for so many men closing their eyes whilst travelling.

       ***

Mr. DEVLIN, M.P., has communicated to the Press a scheme for solving the Irish problem. This
is regarded by Irish politicians generally as a dangerous precedent.

       ***

A defendant in a County Court case heard in London last week stated in his evidence that two
of his daughters were working and the other was a typist at the Peace Conference.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

COMMERCIAL CANDOUR.

From a placard in a shop-window:--

    "Do you buy Tea, or do you buy our Tea?"

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Should a customer cut his hair and shave at the same time,
    the price will be one shilling."--Advt. in "Daily Gleaner"
    (Jamaica).

Not a bit too much for such ambidexterity.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PRICE OF FREEDOM.

  I thought the cruel wound was whole
    Which left my inside so dyspeptic;
  That Time had salved this tortured soul,
    Time and Oblivion's antiseptic;
  That thirty years (the period since
    You showed a preference for Another)
  Had fairly schooled me not to wince
    At being treated like a brother.

  When last I saw the shape I wooed
    In coils of adipose embedded,
  Fondling its eldest offspring's brood
    (The image of the Thing you wedded),
  I placed my hand upon the seat
    Of those affections you had riven
  And gathered from its steady beat
    That your offence had been forgiven.

  And now, to my surprise and pain,
    Long past the stage of convalescence,
  The wound has broken out again
    With symptoms of pronounced putrescence;
  And, from the spot where once was laid
    Your likeness treasured in a locket,
  The trouble threatens to invade
    A tenderer place--my trouser pocket.

  For AUSTEN (such is rumour's tale),
    Faced with a rude financial deadlock,
  Is bent on mulcting every male
    Who shirks the privilege of wedlock;
  With such a hurt Time cannot deal,
    And Lethe here affords no tonic;
  Nothing but Death can hope to heal
    What looks as if it must be chronic.

  And yet a solace soothes my brow,
    Making my air a shade less gloomy:--
  Six shillings in the pound is now
    The figure out of which they do me;
  But, were we man and wife to-day
    (So close the Treasury loves to link 'em),
  A grievous super-tax they'd lay
    On our coagulated income.

  I dare not even try to guess
    What is the charge for being single;
  It may be more, it may be less
    Than if we twain had chanced to mingle;
  But though with thrice as heavy a fist
    They fall on bachelors to bleed 'em
  Yet, when I think of what I've missed,
    I'll gladly pay the cost of Freedom.

  O.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

TEA-CUP TWADDLE.

BY THEODOSIA.

(With acknowledgments to the kind of paper that wallows in this kind of thing.)

Fringe and tassels, tassels and fringe! That is the burden of what I have to say to you this
time; for indeed and indeed this is to be a fringe-and-tassel season, and you must cover yourself
all over with fringe and the rest of yourself with tassels, or else "to a nunnery go."

A propos, I popped into the dressing-room of the ever-delightful Miss Frillie Farrington at
the Incandescent the other evening and had the joy of seeing her put on that sweet ickle f'ock
she wears for the Jazz supper scene in Oh My! All the materials used are three yards of embroidered
chiffon, six yards of tinsel fringe and six dozen tinsel tassels; and anything so completely
swish and so immensely tra-la-la you simply never!

The Armistice Smile is quickly giving way to the Peace Face. For the Peace Face the eyes should
look calmly straight before one, and the lips should be gently closed, but not set in a hard
line. Everybody who is anybody is busy practising the Peace Face, as it is sure to be wanted
some day.

Was in a big squeeze the other night coining out of the Opera and overheard Lady Mary Clarges
remark to her pretty daughter, "What a crush!" Lady Mary has a big reputation for always saying
the right thing.

I don't know whether to laugh or cry when I tell you that spotted stockings have been seen
walking in the park! Oh, no, there wasn't anything spooky or séancy about it; the stockings
weren't walking all alone by themselves; they were on the--that's to say, they were worn by
a very well-known woman, whose stockings are sure to give the lead to multitudes of other stockings!

Am told that the "Back from France" fancy-dress dance at Widelands House, in honour of Captain
Lord Widelands, was a huge success. Winnie, Lady Widelands (grandmother of the hero of the
night) was enormously admired as a boy-scout.

I hear that there's been a great big noise at Middleshire Park. Lord Middleshire found that
Lady M. had asked LENIN and TROTSKY to join her house-party at Easter. Lady Middleshire, who
is one of the most beautiful and gifted of our young go-ahead hostesses, assured her husband
that she meant no harm and had no Bolshie leanings, but simply wanted to be even with Lady
Oldacres, who has secured the Eskimo Contortionists from the Palladrome for her Easter party.

I've received mountains of letters asking about sucking the thumb, as introduced by dainty
Miss Vanity Vaux in Draw it mild, Daisy. Only the tip of the thumb should be sucked; those
of you who put the whole thumb into your mouths must not complain if you see smiles exchanged
round you. Where the eyes are large and widely opened and the right cast of feature exists,
the thumb may be sucked by girls up to forty-five.

Passed the beautiful young Countess of Southshire walking near Belgrave Square yesterday. As
usual, she was parfaitement mise. Was sorry for her sake, but glad for my own, to hear her
sneeze twice, for she is considered to have easily the most musical sneeze in London. Talk
of sneezing, during the 'flu epidemic Madame Fallalerie has been giving a course of lessons,
"How to sneeze prettily" (twenty guineas the course), and her reception-rooms in Bond Street
have been simply packed.

Absolutely everybody seemed to be lunching at Kickshaw's yesterday! Lord and Lady Oldacres
were at a table with some of their children, which reminds me of the fact that family parties
are rather good form just now. It's not at all unusual to see husbands and wives together,
and children, both small and grown-up, are quite often with their parents.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. PUNCH'S "SPORPOT."

The sum of £91 11s. 0d. generously collected by various schools in South Africa for the "Sporpot"
(savings-box) fund, which was suggested in these pages by Mr. Punch's friend, the late Mr.
BERTRAM SMITH of Beattock, has been distributed amongst the Belgian refugees who have spent
four and a half years of exile at Beattock and have just left to return to their own country.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

MIXED BIOGRAPHY.

The achievement of a certain paper in identifying the late Mr. G.W.E. RUSSELL with Mr. GEORGE
RUSSELL ("Æ"), the Irish poet, is likely to encourage imitation. The following first attempts
have come under our notice:--

It is not generally known that the FOREIGN SECRETARY began life in a Sheffield steel factory.
By unremitting toil he became Master Cutler, having first served an apprenticeship as Chief
Secretary for Ireland. The inclusion of Mr. ARTHUR BALFOUR in the Coal Commission was particularly
happy, and no one will grudge him his well-earned title of Lord BALFOUR OF BURLEIGH.

Sir ANTHONY HOPE HAWKINS, better known as Mr. Justice HAWKINS, like his brother judge, Mr.
Justice GILBERT PARKER, combines a profound knowledge of law with a fine literary gift. His
well-known treatise on Habeas Corpus, entitled The Prisoner of Zenda, will be familiar to all
students.

During the absence of the gallant Colonel JOHN WARD at the Front, we understand that Mrs. WARD
has been seeing through the Press a new story, which is a return to the earlier manner of her
Robert Elsmere.

Sir GEORGE ASKWITH, as he will still be remembered long after his elevation to the peerage,
first struck the public imagination by his advice to the railwaymen, who, when they asked what
would happen if they persisted in striking, received the answer, "Wait and see."

London is becoming herself again. Among well-known persons noticed about yesterday were Mr.
MCKENNA, whose retirement from office presumably gives him more leisure for that sequel to
Sonia for which we are all waiting; Mr. J.W.H.T. DOUGLAS, Cricket Specialist of The Star; Sir
ERNEST SHACKLETON, on his way to his work at the Ministry of Labour; and Sir HARRY JOHNSON,
the famous African pugilist.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BETTER PART.

    [It is suggested that one result of army life will be a boom in
    big-game hunting and visits to the world's most inaccessible
    spots.]

  He may be correct, the observer who says
    Henceforth there'll be many a rover
  Ambitious to go, in American phrase,
    To the edge of beyond and some over;
  But I, for my part, harbour other designs;
    My wanderlust's wholly abated;
  With travel on even luxurious lines
    I'm more than sufficiently sated.

  Having roamed into Egypt, according to plan,
    Along with my fellows (a merry Co.),
  Having carried a pack from Beersheba to Dan
    And footslogged from Gaza to Jericho,
  I'll not seek a fresh inaccessible spot
    In order to slaughter a new brute;
  To me inaccessible's anywhere not
    To be found on a regular tube route.

  For barbarous jungles or desolate streams
    I don't give a tuppenny damlet;
  For, candidly, London revisited seems
    A very endurable hamlet;
  Though others may find her excitements too mild
    And sigh for things gladder or madder,
  I'm fully resolved that the call of the wild
    Shall find me as deaf as an adder.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Trouser maker wanted; constant."--Jewish Chronicle.

A very desirable quality in a composer of continuations.

       *       *       *       *       *

"STRANGE BIGAMY STORY.

    "MUNITIONER SAID TO HAVE POSED AS A WEALTHY MAN."

    Evening News.

The strange thing, of course, is that he should have needed to pose.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TRAGEDY OF THE SUPER-PATRIOT.

If you happen to be standing upon the platform of Ealing Common station at about nine o'clock
on a week-day morning you will see a poor shrunken figure with a hunted expression upon his
face come creeping down the stairs. And as the train comes in he will slink into a carriage
and hide himself behind his newspaper and great tears will come into his eyes as he reads the
correspondence column and thinks of the days when his own letters used to be published over
the signatures of "Volunteer," "Patriot," or "Special Constable of Two Years' Service." And
this sorry figure is Mr. Coaster, whose patriotism proved his undoing.

Before he lived in Ealing he had a little cottage at Ramstairs, on the Kentish coast. Every
morning he would travel up to the City, and every evening he would return to Ramstairs, not
to the carpet slippers and the comforts of home, but to the brassard and the rigorous routine
of the drill-hall.

And the little drill-hall was filled with the noise of war as the Men of Kent marched hither
and thither, lashed by the caustic tongue of the Territorial sergeant, with all the enthusiasm
of the early Saxons who flocked to HAROLD'S standard in order to repel the Danes.

For Mr. Coaster was as great a patriot as any of the old Saxons. In a burst of enthusiasm he
joined the Special Constables; in an explosion of wrath, following the bombardment of Scarborough,
he enlisted in the Kentish Fencibles, and in a wave of self-sacrifice he enrolled himself in
the Old Veterans' Fire Brigade. And he had badges upon each lapel of his coat and several dotted
all over his waistcoat.

He belonged to a noble company of patriots. All true Men of Kent who were past the fighting
age joined one or other of these institutions, but luckily not more than one.

On a certain fatal night a general alarm was given. In due course a notification of it was
conveyed to Ramstairs, and instantaneously the members of the Special Constabulary, the Kentish
Fencibles and the Veterans' Fire Brigade were summoned from their beds. Then did Mr. Coaster
realise his terrible position. Since he belonged to all three, to which of them should he now
report? After some agonising moments of doubt he hung up his three types of headgear upon the
hat-stand and, shutting his eyes, he twirled himself round twice and made a grab at them. His
hand touched the helmet of the Veterans' Fire Brigade. Fate had decided. Seizing his fireman's
axe he rushed off down the street.

The result of this was inevitable. He was dismissed with ignominy from the Special Constables
and was condemned to death, with a recommendation to mercy, by a court-martial of the Kentish
Fencibles. His old friends among the Men of Kent cut him dead; the tradesmen of his platoon
refused to serve him. He had to leave Ramstairs and he retired to Ealing. The catastrophe ruined
his health. But he still gets a little solace when, as he wipes the tears from his eyes after
reading the correspondence column of his penny paper, he sees upon his waistcoat the crossed
axes surmounted by a fire bucket, the emblem of the Veterans' Fire Brigade.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

PARADISE REGAINED.

    "Lady tired of her clothes wishes to sell them all very
    cheaply."--Pioneer (Allahabad).
       *       *       *       *       *

    A STAYER.

    "In this race County Cricket was left at least eight lengths and
    yet managed to cover up ground and was only beaten by half a
    week, greatest surprise to all those who noticed it."----Bombay
    Chronicle.

We gather that it was only noticed by a few spectators who happened to be staying on over the
week-end.

       *       *       *       *       *

From a publisher's advertisement of Mr. CHESTERTON'S works:--

    "A SHILLING FOR MY THOUGHTS, Fcap. 8vo. 2s. net."

Is "G.K.C." also among the profiteers?

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Private Frank Edwards, Canadian Forces, a native of Berwick, has
    been presented to the King as the oldest soldier on active service
    with the B.E.F. He enlisted as a private in the 50's and went
    right away to fight in France."--Edinbro' Evening News.

We calculate that he is entitled to at least fifty-nine blue chevrons and one red.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"CLEAR THE GALLERIES."

In response to the growth of dissatisfaction at the continued closing of certain picture galleries
and museums, either wholly or in part, the Government has appointed a special commission to
investigate the matter, under the presidency of Sir Tite Barnacle (fifth baronet). A report
of the first session follows, during which the cases for the public and culture, and for the
Government as against both, were fully stated.

