Hazel is leaning rather perilously over the banisters, trying to catch a glimpse of the old
woman coming slowly up the stairs far below.

"Yes--one. Don't come for it, I'm coming up. And pray, child, don't hang over those rickety
rails like that."

Miss Bright, or "Brightie," as Hazel Deane had grown affectionately to call her, is a heavy,
strongly-made woman of sixty-three years. She finds the stairs in this house in Union-square,
where she and Hazel lodge, rather trying; they are many and steep, so she pauses half-way to
recover breath. Looking up she sees Hazel, a white, dark-eyed face, and a form so slender that
even those unsafe rails could hardly give way under so slight a weight. "More than ever like
one of my Cape jasmine stars," thinks old Brightie. She has always mentally compared the girl
to one of those pure, white stars, which she used so specially to love, shining on their invisible
stems, amidst the dark green leaf-sprays at her sister's home. Oh, how the poor, lonely old
woman's heart had ached for that country home of her younger days, as she sat wearily at her
business of plain sewing day after day in her attic in Union-square!

And Hazel, looking down, saw her one friend in the world. A ray of sunlight streamed in through
the narrow staircase window on to Miss Bright. It makes the black cap which covers her whole
head, with strings flying back over her shoulders, look very rusty. It makes her old alpaca
gown, patched and repatched, and the little black silk apron that she wears, look more than
ever shiny. It strikes upon the large, old-fashioned white pearl buttons down the front of
her bodice, and upon the glasses of her spectacles, till she looks like some strange, black
creature staring all over with big, round eyes. To Hazel's affectionate mind, however, there
is nothing in the least ludicrous in the sight. She only notes the panting breath, and says,
with a touch of impatience in her anxiety--

"Why will you persist in toiling up and down those horrid stairs, instead of sending me, Brightie?
It is really very unkind of you."

When Brightie has delivered up Hazel's envelope, with its scrawled direction, she retires into
her own room, next door, and shuts herself in. She is filled with an unwonted excitement, for
she holds a second letter in her hand, and it is her own. The rarest thing it is for her to
have a letter, and the post-mark is "Firdorf," the very same beautiful country place for which
she had pined; there she and Janie, her only sister, had lived together, and Janie had died
there. The hands, aged with work and deprivation more than with time, shake as they break the
seal, the aged eyes grow dim again and again as they read.

It is fully three parts of an hour before Brightie has got through the letter--not that the
words are many or hard to understand; but rather that the hindrances are many. The glasses
of the large spectacles grow so misty from time to time that they require polishing. Then,
too, Miss Bright's mind exhibits foolish tendencies, refusing to grasp the meaning of the words,
and causing her to explain that she must be dreaming; and still further she is carried back
in mind to days long since vanished, and scenes long unvisited, and these detain her long.
But at last she rouses herself--has at length fairly accepted the astonishing good news her
letter contains, and, with it open in her hand, hastens off to communicate the same to her
young friend.

Hazel's door is locked, and Miss Bright has to wait a moment before it is unfastened. Hazel
has been crying, and the tears must have been both plentiful and bitter, for unmistakable traces
exist, in spite of hurried efforts to efface them. For once, though, Brightie is thoroughly
self-engrossed, and fails to notice even Hazel's face.

"I have such wonderful news, my dear!" she exclaims, the moment she is admitted into the room.

Hazel expresses her interest, and, with her loving smile and tender way, ensconces her friend
in the one attempt at an easy chair her room possesses, and then kneels beside her to listen.

"Well, my dear, you have heard me speak of my sister's house at Firdorf?"

"Of course! Often. Where you used to live, and the flowers were so lovely."

"Yes! and where the sweet white jasmine used to blossom, filling the air with its delicious
fragrance when we sat in the summer evenings beneath the trellis work, in front of the dear
old home."

As she speaks of the jasmine, old Miss Bright's hand is laid caressingly on Hazel's hair, and
her eyes--happily not too keen without her glasses, or they would detect the tear marks--rest
with softened look, full of tender memories, on the girl's sympathetic, upturned face.

"There were always we three there--I, and my sister and her boy. You have heard how the home
was broken up, how Tom ran away, and how we lost our money, and how Janie's spirit broke down
under it, till at length she gave up praying for Tom's return, and drooped and died?"

Miss Bright is making a long pause. Her large, rough face is heavy and sorrowful. She has quite
forgotten her good news for the moment, has forgotten her friend kneeling beside her, has forgotten
all save the memory of the sorrow which seemed to have terminated all of joy the world held
for her. Hazel steals a gentle arm round the bowed neck, and kisses the worn, absent face as
softly and soothingly as though it were some beautiful child's. The touch recalls the wandering
thoughts, Brightie clasps the hand that she is holding in her own more tightly, and goes on:--

"Well, to be sure, and I haven't told you the news after all, dearie! It is that Tom has come
back. He has made a great deal of money, and got quite reformed and come back. And he has bought
back the old house, and now has just found out my address and wants me to go down and live
with him; wants me to forgive him, he says, and let him be a comfort to me. I have, of course,
nothing to forgive, except for Janie's sake."

"Oh, Brightie, what good, good news it is! I am so very glad. You will at last have some rest,
and not be obliged to try your eyes over that fine sewing, and be taken proper care of, and
have all sorts of nice things. I am so glad! How soon can you go, dear?--to-morrow? I should
like you to go to-morrow."

Hazel began very bravely, went on unsteadily, and finally ended by laying her head down on
Brightie's broad shoulder, fairly sobbing.

"I should like you to go to-morrow! Why, Hazel, Hazel, my tender-hearted little pet, are you
crying, then? Because you are sure I am not going to-morrow? Neither to-morrow nor any other
time. Don't you know I could not leave you without a friend in this great, careless world?"

Brightie's words are news to herself as she speaks them. She had not considered the possibility
of such a thing before. Here was the longed-for home open to her, waiting to receive her again.
Her one relation, her own nephew, the same merry-faced Tom of old, dear days, writing to her
begging her to show her forgiveness and go to him to be cherished all the days of her life.
And all this must be foregone--renounced. She must give it all up, and when Tom comes in two
days, as he said he should, to fetch her, she must withstand his pleading and send him back
alone, and never see the sweet garden and fresh sea again.

It is one of the cruellest days of bitter March weather. Yet early in the day after the talk
with Brightie, Hazel goes out in spite of the cutting east wind. Wearily she drags herself
about, making one more effort to dispose of the manuscript of a story she has written, which
was ignominiously returned to her as useless this morning. Hour after hour she struggles on
in a kind of desperation, trying every possible chance of getting rid of her laborious production.
She is fully assured in her own mind that she will have no opportunity of getting out of doors,
even to try and dispose of it, after to-day for many days to come. Her growing illness makes
that certain. But all efforts are worse than useless. It is nearing seven o'clock, and growing
quite dark, when she reaches Union-square and stumbles up those endless stairs at length. For
the first two flights the stairs are comparatively broad and handsome, and they are thickly
carpeted; but above they grow narrow and bare and steep. As she begins to ascend, Hazel meets
a lady in a rich dress. There are preparations, too, in the lower rooms, which betoken the
commencement of some festivity. Hazel is heartsick and footsore, and these slight matters intensify
her loneliness and sadness, till as she enters her own dark, desolate room her swelling heart
finds vent in a stifled sob. There has been no scarcity of trouble in the five-and-twenty years
of Hazel Deane's life.

And now the trouble that weighs upon her this dreary night is the rejection all round of the
treasured writing, offered everywhere with diffidence and hope, received back always with mortification
and despair. It is now finally flung aside. Then there is the trouble of losing her friend--her
one friend, Miss Bright--for Hazel's delicate little body holds a resolute mind and strong
will, and she is determined her friend shall not forego the so long needed rest on her account.

The moon is looking in through the uncurtained window, looking into the cold, bare room, where
only two or three cinders glow a dull red in the grate. Beside it Hazel leans back in her chair,
musing bitterly on all the gladness gone out of her life. "I am one of those who have none
to love them," she thinks, and the tears gather in her eyes again.

She is quoting from Mr. Ruskin's "Queen's Gardens," the book which enabled her to bear patiently
a long delay at one of the publishers she had tried that day. She had found it lying upon the
table beside her as she waited, and picking it up, had become engrossed in it.

"And I am a woman, and I suppose, therefore, a queen--at least a possible queen," she muses--"a
pretty queen!"

(To be concluded.)

[1] Sesame and Lilies. By John Ruskin, LL.D. 1. Of King's Treasuries. 2. Of Queen's Gardens.

THE WEATHER AND HEALTH.

BY MEDICUS.

We have all heard tell of the "Clerk of the Weather." What a poor, ill-used, roundly-rated,
over-worked individual he must be! His whole life must be spent in an impossible endeavour
to please everybody. We may imagine the poor man going of a morning towards his office with
languid steps and weary, wondering all the while to himself what sort of weather he ought to
give the public to-day.

Arrived in front of his desk, he must stagger back with dismay at the piles on piles of letters
heaped thereon. To read them all is out of the question; so he sits down and draws one forth,
just as you would draw a card from the hand of someone who pretended to tell fortunes.

He opens the letter. It isn't a pleasant one by any means. There is a tone of growling impatience
in every line of it. How long, the writer, who is an invalid, wants to know, are these horrible
east winds going to prevail down in Devonshire? She has come here for her health's sake; she
has been here for three weeks, and all that time it has never ceased to blow, and she has never
ceased to cough and ache.

The clerk throws this epistle into the Balaam box and listlessly draws out another. "Don't
you think," the writer says, "that a blink of sunshine would be a blessing--and a drop or two
of warm rain to bring the fruit on, and the garden stuff? What is the good of having a Clerk
of the Weather at all if he cannot attend better to his duties?"

