VOL. I.--NO. 48.

       *       *       *       *       *

]

A CHILDREN'S PARADISE.

In one corner of the Bois de Boulogne is a pretty zoological garden known as the Jardin d'Acclimatation.
The Bois de Boulogne is the pleasure-ground of Paris, and is one of the most beautiful parks
in the world. It comprises about twenty-five hundred acres of majestic forests and open grassy
meadows, through which flow picturesque streams, tumbling over rocky cliffs in glistening cascades,
or spreading out into broad tranquil lakes, upon which float numbers of gay pleasure-boats
filled on sunny summer afternoons with crowds of happy children.

But the place where the children are happiest is the Jardin d'Acclimatation. There are no savage
beasts here to frighten the little ones with their roaring and growling. The lions and tigers
and hyenas are miles away, safe in their strong cages in the Jardin des Plantes, on the other
side of the big city of Paris; and in this charming spot are gathered only those members of
the great animal kingdom which in one way or another are useful to man.

The Jardin d'Acclimatation has been in existence about twenty-five years. In 1854 a society
was formed in Paris for the purpose of bringing to France, from all parts of the world, beasts,
birds, fishes, and other living things, which in their native countries were in any way serviceable,
and to make every effort to accustom them to the climate and soil of France. The city of Paris
ceded to the society a space of about forty acres in a quiet corner of the great park, and
the preparation of the ground for the reception of its strange inhabitants was begun at once.
The ponds were dug out and enlarged, the meadows were sodded with fresh, rich grass, spacious
stalls were built, and a big kennel for dogs, aviaries for birds, aquaria for fish, and a silk-worm
nursery, were all made ready. A large greenhouse was also erected for the cultivation of foreign
plants. Here the animals were not brought simply to be kept on exhibition, but they were made
as comfortable and as much at home as possible.

On pleasant afternoons troops of children with their mammas or nurses crowd the walks and avenues
of the Jardin d'Acclimatation. Here, in a comfortable airy kennel, are dogs from all parts
of the world, some of them great noble fellows, who allow the little folks to fondle and stroke
them. On a miniature mountain of artificial rock-work troops of goats and mouflons--a species
of mountain sheep--clamber about, as much at home as if in their far-away native mountains.
Under a group of fir-trees a lot of reindeer are taking an afternoon nap, lost in dreams of
their home in the distant North. Grazing peacefully on the broad meadows are antelopes, gazelles,
and all kinds of deer; and yaks from Tartary, llamas from the great South American plains,
Thibet oxen, and cattle of all kinds are browsing in their particular feeding grounds.

In a pretty sunny corner is a neat little chalet inclosed in a yard filled with fresh herbage.
A cozy little home indeed, and there, peering inquisitively through the open door, is one of
the owners of this mansion--a funny kangaroo, standing as firmly on its haunches as if it scorned
the idea of being classed among the quadrupeds.

What is whinnying and galloping about on that meadow? A whole crowd of ponies! Ponies from
Siam, from Java, shaggy little Shetlands, quaggas and dauws from Africa, all feeding and frolicking
together, and there, in the door of his stall, stands a sulky little zebra. He is a very bad-tempered
little animal, and evidently something has gone wrong, and he "won't play." In a neighboring
paddock is a gnu, the curious horned horse of South Africa. The children are uncertain whether
to call it a horse, a buffalo, or a deer, and the creature itself appears a little doubtful
as to which character it can rightfully assume.

One of the few animals kept in cages is the guepard, or hunting leopard. The guepard, a graceful,
spotted creature, is very useful to hunters in India. It is not a savage animal, and when taken
young is very easily trained to work for its master. It is led hooded to the chase, and only
when the game is near is the hood removed. The guepard then springs upon the prey, and holds
it fast until the hunter comes to dispatch it. The guepard in the Jardin d'Acclimatation is
very affectionate toward its keeper, and purrs like a big cat when he strokes its silky head,
but it is safer for children to keep their little hands away from it.

In pens provided with little ponds are intelligent seals and families of otters, with their
elegant fur coats always clean and in order; and down by the shore of the stream and the large
lake a loud chattering is made by the numerous web-footed creatures and long-legged waders.
Here are ducks from Barbary and the American tropics, wild-geese from every clime, and swimming
gracefully and silently in the clear water are swans--black, gray, and white--that glide up
to the summer-houses on the bank, and eat bread and cake from the children's hands.

Among the tall water-grasses at one end of the lake is a group of pelicans, motionless, their
long bills resting on their breasts. They look very gloomy, as if refusing to be comforted
for the loss of their native fishing grounds in the wild African swamps.

Promenading in a spacious park are whole troops of ostriches, their small heads lifted high
in the air, and their beautiful feathers blowing gracefully in the wind. Be careful, or they
will dart their long necks through the paling and steal all your luncheon, or perhaps even
the pretty locket from your chain, for anything from a piece of plum-cake to a cobble-stone
is food for this voracious bird. A poor soldier, whose sole possession was the cross of honor
which he wore on the breast of his coat, was once watching the ostriches in the Jardin d'Acclimatation,
when a bird suddenly darted at him, seized his cross in its beak, and swallowed it. The soldier
went to the superintendent of the garden and entered a bitter complaint; but the feathered
thief was not arrested, and the soldier never recovered his treasure.

What a rush and crowd of children on the avenue! No wonder, for there is a pretty barouche,
to which is harnessed a large ostrich, which marches up and down, drawing its load as easily
as if it were a span of goats or a Shetland pony, instead of a bird.

There are so many beautiful birds in the aviaries, so many odd fowls in the poultry-house,
and strange fish in the aquaria, that it is impossible to see them all in one day, and the
best thing to do now is to rest on a seat in the cool shade of the vast conservatory, among
strange and beautiful plants from all parts of the world. And on every holiday the happy children
say, "We will go to the Jardin d'Acclimatation, where there is so much to enjoy, and so much
to learn."

FRANK'S WAR WITH THE 'COONS.

BY GEORGE J. VARNEY.

Last month I spent several weeks at a farm within sight of the White Mountains. One morning
the boy Frank came in with a basket of sweet-corn on his arm, and a bad scowl on his countenance.

"What is the matter, Frank?" inquired his mother, coming from the pantry.

Indignation was personified in him, as he answered, "Them pigs has been in my corn."

"I hadn't heard that the pigs had been out. Did they do much harm?"

"Yes, they spoiled a peck of corn, sure; broke the ears half off, and some all off. Rubbed
'em all in the dirt, and only ate half the corn. Left 'most all one side. They didn't know
enough to pull the husks clear off."

Just then the hired man came in, and Frank repeated his complaint of the pigs.

"They hain't been out of their yard for a week, I know. I heard some 'coons yellin' over in
the woods back of the orchard last night. I guess them's the critters that's been in your corn
piece."

"S'pose they'll come again to-night?" inquired the boy, every trace of displeasure vanishing.

"Likely 's not. They 'most always do when they get a good bite, and don't get scared."

"I'll fix 'em to-night," said the boy, with a broad smile at the anticipated sport.

Twilight found Frank sitting patiently on a large pumpkin in the edge of his corn piece, gun
in hand, watching for the 'coons. An hour later his patience was gone, and the 'coons hadn't
come--at least he had no notice of their coming. As he started from his rolling seat a slight
sound in the midst of the corn put him on the alert. He walked softly along beside the outer
row, stopping frequently to listen, until he could distinctly hear the rustling of the corn
leaves, and even the sound of gnawing corn from the cob. His heart beat fast with excitement
as he became assured of the presence of a family of raccoons, and he held his gun ready to
pop over the first one that showed itself. There were slight sounds of rustling and gnawing
in several places, but they all ceased, one after another, as Frank came near. He listened,
but there was nothing to be heard. Then he went to the other side of the piece to cut off their
retreat from the woods. He came cautiously up between the corn rows to the midst of the piece,
but no 'coon was there.

"Pity they will eat their suppers in the dark," muttered Frank, to relieve his vexation at
the disappointment.

He returned slowly to the house, and went up to his room, where he sat down and read awhile.
After an hour or more he became too sleepy to read; so he laid aside his book, put out the
light, and popped into bed. Just as he was falling asleep he heard several cries over in the
woods. They were half whistle, half scream--a sort of squeal. He sprang up in bed to listen.
The cries ceased, and for several minutes all was silence. Then there arose a succession of
screams, much nearer, and in a different voice. It was interrupted and broken. It seemed something
between the squeal of a pig and the cry of a child.

Frank said to his father the next morning that "it sounded as if it was a young one, and the
mother was cuffing it and driving it back. At any rate, the last of the cries sounded as if
the little 'coon had turned, and was going away."

"Very likely," said his father; "the little 'coon was probably hungry for the rest of his supper,
and was going back to the corn sooner than the old 'coon thought was prudent."

Frank heard no more of the 'coons, and soon went to sleep, but in the morning he found that
more corn had been spoiled than in the first night. The 'coons had only run off to come back
again, and begin their depredations in a new place. He therefore came to the conclusion that
he must watch all night, and every night, if at all.

The hired man told how some boys where he worked once caught a 'coon by setting a trap at the
hole in a board fence near the corn piece. There was a wall beside the woods not far from Frank's
corn, and there were a plenty of holes in it, but which particular hole the 'coons came through
nobody could tell.

"I'll find out," said Frank. He went to a sand-bank with the wheelbarrow, and shovelled in
a load of sand. This he spread at the bottom of every large hole, and on the rocks at every
low place in the wall. In the morning he walked along there, and the foot-prints in the sand
showed where the path of the 'coons crossed the wall. There he set his steel-trap, and another
which he borrowed of a neighbor. In the morning he went over to see what had happened. One
trap was sprung, and held a few hairs; the other trap had disappeared. It didn't go off alone,
Frank thought; but it had a long stick fastened to its chain that would be sure to catch in
the bushes before it went far. He sprang over the wall, and peeped round among the knolls and
bushes. Suddenly, as he went around a clump of little spruces, a chain rattled, and a brownish-gray
creature, "'most as big as a bear," as Frank afterward said, sprang at him, with a sharp, snarling
growl, and mouth wide open. The sight was too much for Frank's nerves, and set them in such
a tremor that he ran away. When he came in sight of his corn he began to grow angry, and his
courage came up again. He now got him a larger stick than he had first carried, and set out
for the animal again. He had considered that, after all, it could be only a 'coon, though bears
had been heard of in the corn fields further north. Frank and the corn-eater now met again
face to face, and for a few seconds there was a lively battle, in which mingled the snarling
of the 'coon, the rattling of the chain, and the blows of the stick. At length the 'coon lay
still, and Frank stood guard over him with a broken stick. The next day he ate a slice of roast
'coon for dinner with great relish.

The traps were set again for the next night, but never a 'coon was in them in the morning.
The cunning fellows evidently considered the place too dangerous, and chose another entrance.
Anyway, the corn was still going away fast. Frank feared that he wouldn't have enough to fill
his contract with the canning factory unless the family in the house, or the other family in
the woods, left off eating. Something must be done. At length Frank bought a dog. He made a
nice kennel for him in the middle of the corn field, and tied him there at night. Just after
Frank had fallen into a sound sleep the dog woke him up with his barking. Frank went out, but
could find nothing. The dog woke him twice more that night, but he didn't trouble himself to
leave his bed again. In the morning he found that the 'coons had destroyed as much corn as
before, but it was all about the edges. The next night they ventured a little nearer the kennel.
The following night the dog was left in the kennel loose. Probably when the 'coons came he
made a charge upon them, and they turned upon him and drove him away, for he was only a little
young one. He took refuge in the wood-house, where he barked furiously for an hour or more,
and then in occasional brief spells all the night--whenever he woke enough to remember the
'coons. After this Frank gave up the defense of the corn, but began to gather it nightly as
fast as the ears were sufficiently full. At length he cut the corn and took it into the barn,
excepting a single bunch. About this bunch he sunk traps in the ground, and threw hay-seed
over them, and placed nice ears of sweet-corn beside them. The next morning he had another
'coon. The other trap was sprung also, but it held nothing but a little tuft of long gray fur.
That sly fellow had again sat down on the trencher. From this time the 'coons troubled Frank's
corn no more, having found other fields where there was more corn and fewer traps. Frank's
final conflict with the 'coons was late in the autumn, when the leaves were nearly gone from
the trees, and the ripe beech-nuts were beginning to drop. He had fired all his ammunition
away at gray squirrels the day before, except a little powder; but a meeting of crows in the
adjoining woods incited his sporting proclivities, and he loaded his gun, putting in peas for
shot, and started for the locality of the noisy birds. They cawed a little louder when they
discovered the intruder, then began in a straggling manner to fly away. So when Frank arrived
at the scene of the meeting it had adjourned. Looking about in the trees to see if by chance
a single crow might still be lingering, a slight movement in a tall maple met his eye.

"Biggest gray squirrel ever I saw," muttered the boy, raising his gun. The position was not
a good one for a shot, as the head, which had been thrust out over a large branch close to
the trunk was now withdrawn, so that only the end of the nose was visible. Close beside this
branch was another, and between the two a large surface of gray fur was exposed.

"I'll send him some peas for dinner," thought Frank, and fired. He heard the peas rattle against
the hard bark of the tree, but no gray squirrel came down or went up that he could see. When
the smoke cleared away, a black nose was thrust out over the branch, and two keen eyes were
visible, peering down at the sportsman, as much as to say, "I like peas for dinner, little
boy, but don't take 'em that way."

"That's no squirrel," thought Frank. "I believe it's a 'coon--sure as a gun. And I haven't
got a thing to shoot him with."

He thought of putting his knife into his gun for a bullet, but it proved too large. Then he
looked for some coarse gravel, but did not find any. Feeling in all his pockets, his fingers
clutched a board nail.

"Ah, that's the thing! We'll see, Mr. 'Coon, if you care any more for board nails than you
do for peas."

Loading his gun again, he dropped in the nail instead of a knife for a bullet. He took careful
aim again at the spot of fur between the branches, and fired. The 'coon was more than surprised
this time, and he certainly forgot to look before he leaped, or he never would have sprung
right out ten feet from the tree, with nothing between him and the ground, thirty or forty
feet below. He struck all rounded up in a bunch, like a big ball, bouncing up two or three
feet from the ground. Frank started toward the animal, thinking, "Well, that fall's knocked
the life out of him."

He never was more mistaken. When he stepped toward him, the 'coon got upon his feet at once,
and offered battle. Frank now used his gun in another manner, seizing it by the barrel, and
turning it into a war club. There ensued some lively dodging on the part of the 'coon; but
at length he was hit slightly, when he turned and ran for the nearest tree. This happened to
be a beech, in whose hard, smooth bark his claws would not hold. He slipped down, and as Frank
came up, turned and made a dash for the boy's legs. Frank met him with a blow of the gun on
the head, at which the 'coon dropped down, apparently lifeless. Another such blow would have
finished him; but Frank was unwilling to give it, for the last one had cracked his gun-stock.
So he shouldered the gun, took the 'coon up by the hinder legs, and started for home. Before
he got there the 'coon had come to his senses again, and made Frank pretty lively work to keep
his own legs safe. As soon as he could find a good stake Frank dropped his dangerous burden,
and before the 'coon could run away, he was stunned by a blow of the stake.

With this victory the war between Frank and the 'coons ended for the season. He had been obliged
to buy some corn of a neighbor in order to fill his contract with the canning factory; but
the 'coon-skins sold for enough to make up the money.

MUSIC AND MANNERS.

The boys at Mr. Morton's select school were not the only people in Laketon who were curious
about Paul Grayson. Although the men and women had daily duties like those of men and women
elsewhere, they found a great deal of time in which to think and talk about other people and
their affairs. So all the boys who attended the school were interrogated so often about their
new comrade, that they finally came to consider themselves as being in some way a part of the
mystery.

Mr. Morton, who had opened his school only several weeks before the appearance of Grayson,
was himself unknown at Laketon until that spring, when, after an unsuccessful attempt to be
made principal of the grammar school, he had hired the upper floor of what once had been a
store building, and opened a school on his own account. He had introduced himself by letters
that the school trustees, and Mr. Merivale, pastor of one of the village churches, considered
very good; but now that Grayson's appearance was explained only by the teacher's statement
that the boy was son of an old school friend who now was a widower, some of the trustees wished
they were able to remember the names and addresses appended to the letters that the new teacher
had presented. Sam Wardwell's father having learned from Mr. Morton where last he had taught,
went so far as to write to the wholesale merchants with whom he dealt, in New York, for the
name of some customer in Mr. Morton's former town; but even by making the most of this roundabout
method of inquiry he only learned that the teacher had been highly respected, although nothing
was known of his antecedents.

With one of the town theories on the subject of Mr. Morton and Paul Grayson the boys entirely
disagreed: this was that the teacher and the boy were father and son.

"I don't think grown people are so very smart, after all," said Sam Wardwell, one day, as the
boys who were not playing lounged in the shade of the school building and chatted. "They talk
about Grayson being Mr. Morton's son. Why, who ever saw Grayson look a bit afraid of the teacher?"

"Nobody," replied Ned Johnston, and no one contradicted him, although Bert Sharp suggested
that there were other boys in the world who were not afraid of their fathers--himself, for
instance.

"Then you ought to be," said Benny Mallow. Benny looked off at nothing in particular for a
moment, and then continued, "I wish I had a father to be afraid of."

There was a short silence after this, for as no other boy in the group had lost a father, no
one knew exactly what to say; besides, a big tear began to trickle down Benny's face, and all
the boys saw it, although Benny dropped his head as much as possible. Finally, however, Ned
Johnston stealthily patted Benny on the back, and then Sam Wardwell, taking a fine winter apple
from his pocket, broke it in two, and extended half of it, with the remark, "Halves, Benny."

Benny said, "Thank you," and seemed to take a great deal of comfort out of that piece of apple,
while the other boys, who knew how fond Sam was of all things good to eat, were so impressed
by his generosity that none of them asked for the core of the half that Sam was stowing away
for himself. Indeed, Ned Johnston was so affected that he at once agreed to a barter--often
proposed by Sam and as often declined--of his Centennial medal for a rather old bass-line with
a choice sinker.

Before the same hour of the next day, however, nearly every boy who attended Mr. Morton's school
was wicked enough to wish to be in just exactly Benny Mallow's position, so far as fathers
were concerned. This sudden change of feeling was not caused by anything that Laketon fathers
had done, but through fear of what they might do. As no two boys agreed upon a statement of
just how this difference of sentiment occurred, the author is obliged to tell the story in
his own words.

