It is, reasonably enough, conjectured from several corroborative circumstances, that the altar
above described is no less than 1,645 years old. One of these circumstances is its being similar
in some respects to two other Roman altars which were found in England some years back, one
of which is related to have been made in the year of Christ 161.

Near Sheffield. J.M. C----D.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER.

       *       *       *       *       *

SUNSET.

  Day sets in glory, and the glowing air
    Seems dreaming in delight; peace reigns around,
  Save where some beetle starteth here and there
    From the shut flowers that kiss the dewy ground--
  A burning ocean, stretching vast and far
    The parting banners of the king of light,
  Gleam round the temples of each living star
    That comes forth in beauty with the night:
  The west seems now like some illumined hall,
    Where beam a thousand torches in their pride,
  As if to light the joyous carnival
    Held by the bright sun and his dark-robed bride,
  Whose cloudy arms are round his bosom press'd,
  As with her thousand eyes she woos him to his rest.

The African, a Tale.

       *       *       *       *       *

BEES.

Alternations of torpor and animation cause greater exhaustion and loss of physical powers,
than would be occasioned by a continuance of uniform torpor. This we infer from the fact, that
in Russia, where the winters are uniformly cold, bees do not perish; and in the West Indies
where there is perpetual verdure, they are never exhausted.

       *       *       *       *       *

Major Rennell--clarum et venerabile nomen--now in his 87th year, possesses in full vigour,
for the happiness of himself and friends, all those intellectual faculties which have so eminently
distinguished his long and useful life; who, suffering little short of martyrdom, from the
frequent attacks of gout, still devotes hours and days to his favourite pursuit; uniting with
his studies all the playfulness and vivacity of youth.

Quarterly Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

WAR.

War! what miseries are heaped together in the sound!--What an accumulation of curses is breathed
in that one word. To us, happy in our insular position, we have, within existing memory, known
chiefly of war, its pomp and circumstance alone; the gay parade, the glancing arms, the bright
colours, the inspiring music--these are what we see of war in its outset;--glory, and praise,
and badges of honour, these are what appear to us as its result. The favourite son, the beloved
brother, he who, perhaps, is dearer still, returns to the home of his youth or of his heart,
having sown danger and reaped renown. Thus do we look on war. But ask the inhabitant of a country
which has been the seat of war, what is his opinion of it. He will tell you that he has seen
his country ravaged, his home violated, his family ---- But no! the tongue recoils from speaking
the horrors and atrocities of war thus brought into the bosom of a peaceful home. All the amenities
and charities of domestic life are outraged, are annihilated. All that is dearest to man; all
that tends to refine, to soften him--to make him a noble and a better being--all these are
trampled under foot by a brutal soldiery--all these are torn from his heart for ever! He will
tell you that he detests war so much that he almost despises its glories; and that he detests
it because he has known its evils, and felt how poorly and miserably they are compensated by
the fame which is given to the slaughterer and the destroyer, because he is such!

Tales of Passion.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NEWSPAPERS.

These square pieces of paper are the Agoras of modern life. The same skilful division of labour
which brings the fowl ready trussed to our doors from the market, brings also an abstract of the

               Votum, timor, ira, voluptas,
Gaudia, discursus,

which agitate the great metropolis, and even opinions, ready prepared, to the breakfast tables
of our remotest farms, ere the controversial warmth has had time to cool. In the centre of
this square, where you observe the larger character, a public orator, "vias et verba locans,"
takes his daily stand. One makes his speech in the morning, and another reserves his for the
evening; a third class, either disposed to take less trouble, or, finding it convenient to
construct their speeches from fragments of the daily orations, harangue once in two or three
days; while a fourth waylay the people in their road to visit the temples on our hebdomadal
festivals. But cast your eyes to another part of these our artificial forums, and observe the
number of small divisions which fill up the space. There are stalls of merchandize. The ancient
venders must have been noisy, and a frequent cause of annoyance to political speakers; but
here the hawkers of wet and dry goods, the hawkers of medicine, the hawkers of personal services,
the hawkers of husbands and wives, (for among us these articles are often cried up for sale,)
and lastly, the hawkers of religions, moral, and political wisdom, all cry out at once, without
tumult or confusion, yet so as to be heard in these days through the remotest corners of these
islands.... If a peculiarly bloody murder has been tried, or if some domestic intrigue has
produced a complicated love story, however offensive in its details, you will find our reading
crowd stationary in that quarter, to enjoy the tragic stimulants of terror and pity. We have
also a modest corner of the square appropriated to the use of our posts; but like Polydorus's
ghost, they generally utter doleful soliloquies, which no one will stop to hear.

London Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

BEAUTY.

It is vain to dispute about the matter; moralists may moralize, preachers may sermonize about
it as much as they please; still beauty is a most delightful thing,--and a really lovely woman
a most enchanting object to gaze on. I am aware of all that can be said about roses fading,
and cheeks withering, and lips growing thin and pale. No one, indeed, need be ignorant of every
change which can be rung upon this peal of bells, for every one must have heard them in every
possible, and impossible, variety of combination. Give time, and complexion will decay, and
lips and cheeks will shrink and grow wrinkled, sure enough. But it is needless to anticipate
the work of years, or to give credit to old Time for his conquests before he has won them.
The edge of his scythe does more execution than that of the conqueror's sword: we need not
add the work of fancy to his,--it is more than sufficiently sure and rapid already.

Tales of Passion.

       *       *       *       *       *

PRE-AUX-CLERCS.

In 1559, the most frequented promenade in Paris was the Pré-aux-Clercs, situated where a part
of the Faubourg St. Germain is at present. The students of the university were generally in
favour of the reformed religion, and not only made a profession of it, but publicly defended
its principles. They had been in the habit of meeting at this place for several years, and
the monks of the Abbey St. Victor having refused to let them assemble in the Pré-aux-Clercs,
a serious affair sprung out of the refusal, and several rencounters took place, in which blood
was shed; the students, being the most numerous, carried their point, the monks resigned the
field to them, and the Pré-aux-Clercs was more than ever frequented. It became the grand rendezvous
of all the Protestants, who would sing Marot's psalms during the summer evenings; and such
numbers giving confidence, many persons declared themselves Protestants, whose rank had hitherto
deterred them from such a step. Among such, the most eminent was Anthony of Bourbon, first
prince of the blood, and, in right of his wife, king of Navarre.

Browning's History of the Hugonots.

       *       *       *       *       *

LOVE.

When she learned the vocabulary, she did not find that admiration meant love; she did not find
that gratitude meant love; she did not find that habit meant love; she did not find that approbation
meant love; but in process of time she began to suspect that all these put together produced
a feeling very much like love.

Rank and Talent.

       *       *       *       *       *

HUGONOTS.

Various definitions of this epithet exist. Pasquier says it arose from their assembling at
Hugon's Tower, at Tours; he also mentions, that in 1540 he heard them called Tourangeaux. Some
have attributed the term to the commencement of their petitions, "Huc nos venimus." A more
probable reason is to be found in the name of a party at Geneva, called Eignots, a term derived
from the German, and signifying a sworn confederate. Voltaire and the Jesuit Maimbourg are
both of this opinion.

Browning's History of the Hugonots.

       *       *       *       *       *

A ROUT.

A great, large, noisy, tumultuous, promiscuous, crowding, crushing, perfumed, feathered, flowered,
painted, gabbling, sneering, idle, gossiping, rest-breaking, horse-killing, panel-breaking,
supper-scrambling evening-party is much better imagined than described, for the description
is not worth the time of writing or reading it.

Rank and Talent.

       *       *       *       *       *

PLEASURE.

  We are mad gamesters in this world below,
  All hopes on one uncertain die to throw;
  How vain is man's pursuit, with passion blind,
  To follow that which leaves us still behind!
  Go! clasp the shadow, make it all thine own,
  Place on the flying breeze thine airy throne;
  Weave the thin sunbeams of the morning sky;
  Catch the light April clouds before they fly;
  Chase the bright sun unto the fading west,
  And wake him early from his golden rest;
  Seeking th' impossible, let life be past,
  But never dream of pleasure that shall last.

The Ruined City.

       *       *       *       *       *

GERMAN LIFE.

One day (says a late adventurer,) that I was quartered in a farm-house, along with some of
our German dragoons, the owner came to complain to me that the soldiers had been killing his
fowls, and pointed out one man in particular as the principal offender. The fact being brought
home to the dragoon, he excused himself by saying, "One shiken come frighten my horse, and
I give him one kick, and he die." "Oh, but," said I, "the patron contends that you killed more
than one fowl." "Oh yes; that shiken moder see me kick that shiken, so she come fly in my face,
and I give her one kick, and she die." Of course I reported the culprit to his officer, by
whom he was punished as a notorious offender.

Twelve Years' Military Adventures.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HEIR.

Persons who are very rich, and have no legal heirs, may entertain themselves very much at the
expense of hungry expectants and lean legacy-hunters. Who has not seen a poor dog standing
on his hind legs, and bobbing up and down after a bone scarcely worth picking, with which some
mischief-loving varlet has tantalized the poor animal till all its limbs have ached? That poor
dog shadows out the legacy-hunter or possible heir.

Rank and Talent.

       *       *       *       *       *

The author of "The Journal of a Naturalist," just published, relates the following incident
that occurred a few years past at a lime-kiln, (on the old Bristol Road) because it manifests
how perfectly insensible the human frame may be to pains and afflictions in peculiar circumstances;
and that which would be torture if endured in general, may be experienced at other times without
any sense of suffering. A travelling man one winter's evening laid himself down upon the platform
of a lime-kiln, placing his feet, probably numbed with cold, upon the heap of stones newly
put on to burn through the night. Sleep overcame him in this situation; the fire gradually
rising and increasing until it ignited the stones upon which his feet were placed. Lulled by
the warmth, he still slept; and though the fire increased until it burned one foot (which probably
was extended over a vent hole) and part of the leg, above the ankle, entirely off, consuming
that part so effectually, that no fragment of it was ever discovered; the wretched being slept
on! and in this state was found by the kiln-man in the morning. Insensible to any pain, and
ignorant of his misfortune, he attempted to rise and pursue his journey, but missing his shoe,
requested to have it found; and when he was raised, putting his burnt limb to the ground to
support his body, the extremity of his leg-bone, the tibia, crumbled into fragments, having
been calcined into lime. Still he expressed no sense of pain, and probably experienced none,
from the gradual operation of the fire and his own torpidity during the hours his foot was
consuming. This poor drover survived his misfortunes in the hospital about a fortnight; but
the fire having extended to other parts of his body, recovery was hopeless.

       *       *       *       *       *

GAMING.

Gambling, the besetting sin of the indolent in many countries, is ruinously general throughout
South America. In England, and other European states, it is pretty much limited to the unemployed
of the upper classes, who furnish a never-ending supply of dupes to knavery. In South America
the passion taints all ages, both sexes, and every rank. The dregs of society yield to the
fascination as blindly as the high-born and wealthy of the old or of the new world. It speaks
much in favour of the revolution, that this vice is sensibly diminishing in Peru, and to the
unfortunate Monteagudo belongs the honour of having been the first to attempt its eradication.
A noted gambler was once as much an object of admiration in South America as a six-bottle man
was in England fifty years ago. The houses of the great were converted into nightly hells,
where the priesthood were amongst the most regular and adventurous attendants. Those places
are now more innocently enlivened by music and dancing. Buena Vista, a seat of the late Marquess
of Montemira, six leagues from Lima, was the Sunday rendezvous of every fashionable of the
capital who had a few doubloons to risk on the turn of a card. On one occasion, a fortunate
player, the celebrated Baquijano, was under the necessity of sending for a bullock car to convey
his winnings, amounting to above thirty thousand dollars: a mule thus laden with specie was
a common occurrence. Chorillos, a fishing town, three leagues south of Lima, is a fashionable
watering place for a limited season. Here immense sums are won and lost; but political and
literary coteries, formerly unknown, daily lessen the numbers of the votaries of fortune.

So strong was this ruling passion, that when the patriot army has been closely pursued by the
royalists, and pay has been issued to lighten the military chest, the officers, upon halting,
would spread their ponchos on the ground, and play until it was time to resume the march; and
this was frequently done even on the eve of a battle. Soldiers on piquet often gambled within
sight of an enemy's advanced post.

Memoirs of Gen. Miller.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NATURALIST.

       *       *       *       *       *

VOLCANIC ISLAND OF ST. CHRISTOPHER.

This island is entirely composed of volcanic matter, in some places alternating with submarine
productions. The principal mountain is situated at the western end of the island; it is an
exhausted volcano, called in books of navigation, charts, &c., Mount Misery. The summit of
this mountain is 3,711 feet above the sea; it appears to consist of large masses of volcanic
rocks, roasted stones, cinders, pumice, and iron-clay. The whole extent of land, to the sea-shore
on either side, may be considered as the base of this mountain, as it rises with a pretty steep
ascent towards it; but from the part which is generally considered the foot of the mountain,
it takes a sudden rise of an average angle of about 50 degrees. To the east, another chain
of mountains runs, of a similar formation, though of inferior height. On the summits of these
there are no remains that indicate their having ever possessed a crater: so that whether any
of them have originally been volcanoes, or whether they have been formed by an accumulation
of matter thrown out of Mount Misery, it is difficult to decide. That the low lands have been
thrown from the mouth of the volcano is evident, from the regular strata of volcanic substances
of which they consist; these too are interspersed with masses of volcanic rock, and other stones,
some of the lesser ones entirely roasted through, and some of the larger ones to certain depths
from their surfaces. Masses, also, of iron-clay, enclosing various pebbles, which have been
burnt into a kind of red brick, are abundantly found in many places. There is scarcely any
thing that can be called a path, or even a track, to the mouth of the crater of Mount Misery;
indeed, there are but few whose curiosity is sufficiently strong to induce them to undertake
this expedition. The common course for those who do, is to take a negro man as a guide, with
a cutlass, or large knife, to clear away the underwood, and form a kind of path as he goes
on. The ascent is very irregular, in some places being gentle, in others almost perpendicular;
in which case the hands are obliged to assist the operations of the feet. In wet weather, the
ascent of this mountain is extremely laborious, as a great part of it consists of clay, which
then becomes so slippery as to render the getting up almost impracticable. About half-way up
on the south side, and in a very pretty, romantic situation, there is a natural spring of remarkably
cool water. On the north side, at about the same height, there is a waterfall, which, though
small and insignificant in itself, has a pleasing appearance, as it rushes over the rocks,
and through the trees and shrubs. This mountain is thickly clothed with wood, which in many
places not only excludes the rays of the sun, but produces a sombre, gloomy appearance; this,
with the occasional plaintive coo of the mountain dove, (the only sound heard at this height,)
creates in the mind sensations of pleasing melancholy. In some parts an open space suddenly
appears, from whence the whole country below bursts unexpectedly upon the view, which has,
as may be supposed, an extremely fine effect. The thermometer, on the top of the mountain when
the writer visited it, stood at 65, being a difference of 15 degrees from the low lands, where
it stood at 80 degrees. The descent into the crater on the north and east sides is perfectly
perpendicular; on the south and west sides, it slopes at an average angle of not more than
18 or 20 degrees from the perpendicular; consequently, persons descending are often obliged
to let themselves down by clinging to projecting corners of rocks, or the branches and roots
of shrubs, which grow all the way down; nor is this mode of travelling particularly safe, for
should any of these give way, the consequence would probably be highly dangerous.