Nevertheless, the country became drier and drier, and the sun scorched the jungle unmercifully.
Even acacias could not be seen. Herds of antelopes appeared continually but in smaller numbers.
The donkey and the horses yet found sufficient food, as under the high, dry grass was hidden
in many places lower grass, greener and less dry. But the King, though he was not fastidious,
grew lean. When they chanced upon an acacia he broke it with his head, and nibbled diligently
its leaves and even the pods of the previous year. The caravan indeed came upon water every
day, but frequently it was so bad that it had to be filtered or else it was unfit even for
the elephant to drink. Afterwards it happened several times that the men, sent in advance,
returned under Kali's command, not finding a slough nor a stream hidden in the earth's fissures,
and Kali with troubled face would announce: "Madi apana" (no water).

Stas understood that this last journey would not be any easier than the previous ones and began
to worry about Nell, as changes were taking place in her. Her little face, instead of tanning
from the sun and wind, became each day paler and her eyes lost their usual luster. On the dry
plain, free from mosquitoes, she was not threatened with fever, but it was apparent that the
terrible heat was wasting the little maid's strength. The boy, with compassion and with fear,
now gazed at her little hands, which became as white as paper, and bitterly reproached himself
because, having lost so much time in the preparation and in drilling the negroes to shoot,
he had exposed her to a journey in a season of the year so parching.

Amid these fears day after day passed. The sun drank up the moisture and the life out of the
soil more and more greedily and unmercifully. The grass shriveled and dried up to such a degree
that it crumbled under the hoofs of the antelopes, and herds, rushing by, though not numerous,
raised clouds of dust. Nevertheless, the travelers chanced once more upon a little river, which
they recognized by a long row of trees growing on its banks. The negroes ran in a race towards
the trees and, reaching the bank, lay flat on it, dipping their heads and drinking so greedily
that they stopped only when a crocodile seized the hand of one of their number. Others rushed
to their companion's rescue and in one moment they pulled out of the water the loathsome lizard,
which, however, did not let go of the man's hand though his jaws were opened with spears and
knives. The matter was only terminated by the King who, placing his foot on him, crushed him
as easily as if he were a mouldy mushroom.

When the men finally quenched their thirst, Stas ordered the erection in the shallow water
of a round enclosure of high bamboos with only one entrance from the bank, in order that Nell
might bathe with perfect safety. And at the entrance he stationed the King. The bath greatly
refreshed the little maid and a rest restored her strength somewhat.

To the great joy of the whole caravan and Nell, "Bwana kubwa" decided to stop two days near
this water. At this news the men fell into excellent humor and at once forgot the toils they
had endured. After taking a nap and refreshments the negroes began to wander among the trees
above the river, looking for palms bearing wild dates and so-called "Job's tears," from which
necklaces are made. A few of them returned to the camp before sunset, carrying some square
objects which Stas recognized as his own kites.

One of these kites bore the number 7, which was evidence that it was sent out from Mount Linde,
as the children flew from that place a few score. Stas was hugely overjoyed at this sight and
it gave him renewed courage.

"I did not expect," he said to Nell, "that kites could fly such a distance. I was certain that
they would remain on the summits of Karamojo and I only let them fly prepared for any accident.
But now I see that the wind can carry them where it wants to and I have a hope that those which
we sent from the mountains surrounding Bassa-Narok, and now on the road, will fly as far as
the ocean."

"They surely will," Nell answered.

"God grant," the boy acquiesced, thinking of the dangers and hardships of the further journey.

The caravan started from the river on the third day, taking with them a great supply of water
in leather bags. Before nightfall they again entered upon a region grilled by the sun, in which
not even acacias grew, and the ground in some places was as bare as a threshing-floor. Sometimes
they met passion-flowers with trunks imbedded in the ground and resembling monstrous pumpkins
two yards in diameter. In these huge globes there shot out lianas as thin as string, which,
creeping over the ground, covered immense distances, forming a thicket so impenetrable that
it would be difficult even for mice to penetrate it. But notwithstanding the beautiful color
of these plants, resembling the European acanthus, there were so many thorns in them that neither
the King nor the horses could find any nourishment in them. Only the donkey nibbled them cautiously.

Sometimes in the course of several English miles they did not see anything except coarse, short
grass and low plants, like immortelles, which crumbled upon being touched. After a night's
bivouac, during the whole of the following day a living fire descended from heaven. The air
quivered as on the Libyan Desert. In the sky there was not even a cloudlet. The earth was so
flooded with light that everything appeared white, and not a sound, not even the buzz of insects,
interrupted this deadly stillness surfeited with an ill-omened luster.

The men were dripping with sweat. At times they deposited their packs of dried meats and shields
in one pile to find a little shade under them. Stas issued orders to save the water, but the
negroes are like children, who have no thought of the morrow. Finally it was necessary to surround
with a guard those who carried the supplies of water and to apportion the water to each one
separately. Kali attended to this very conscientiously, but this consumed a great deal of time
and delayed the march, and therefore the finding of some kind of watering-place. The Samburus
complained in addition that the Wahimas got more than their share to drink, and the Wahimas
that the Samburus were favored. These latter began to threaten to return, but Stas declared
to them that Faru would cut off their heads. He himself ordered the men armed with Remingtons
to go on guard and not let any one leave.

The next night was passed upon a level plain. They did not build a boma, or, as the Sudânese
say, a zareba, for there was nothing to build one with. The duties of sentinel were performed
by the King and Saba. This was sufficient, but the King, who received only a tenth of the water
he needed, trumpeted for it until sunrise, and Saba, with hanging tongue, turned his eyes towards
Stas and Nell in mute appeal for even one drop. The little maid wanted Stas to give him a mouthful
from a rubber flask left by Linde, which Stas carried with a string across his shoulder, but
he was saving this remnant for the little one in the dark hour; therefore he declined.

