Dick stood near the door, hat in hand, patiently waiting. One by one the members passed him;
two or three said "Good Evening;" one shook him by the hand; but something in their faces as
they looked at his clothing checked the words that rose to his lips, and the poor fellow waited,
his story untold. At last the minister came down the aisle, and greeting Dick, was about to
pass out with the others; this was too much, and in a choked voice the young man said, "Sir,
may I speak to you a moment?"

"If you'll be brief," replied the preacher, glancing at his watch. "I have an engagement soon."

Dick told his story in a few words. "I'm not begging, Sir," he added. "I thought some of the
church members might have work that I could do, or might know where I could find employment."

The minister seemed a little embarrassed; then beckoning to a few who still remained, "Brother
Godfrey, here's a man who wants work; do you know of anything?"

"Um, I'm sorry, but I do not," promptly replied the good deacon. "What can you do?" turning
to Dick. He made the usual answer and the officer of the church said again, "Find it rather
hard to strike anything in Boyd City I fear; so many tramps, you know. Been out of work long?"

"Yes sir, and out of food too."

"Too bad; too bad," said the deacon. And "Too bad; too bad," echoed the preacher, and the other
followers of the meek and lowly Jesus. "If we hear of anything we'll let you know. Where are
you stopping?"

"On the street," replied Dick, "when I am not moved on by the police."

"Um--Well--we'll leave word here at the church with the janitor if we learn of anything."

"Are you a Christian?" asked one good old mother in Israel.

"No," stammered poor confused Dick; "I guess not."

"Do you drink?"

"No mam."

"Well, don't get discouraged; look to God; he can help you; and we'll all pray for you. Come
and hear our Brother French preach; I am sure you will find the light. He is the best preacher
in the city. Everybody says so. Good-night."

The others had already gone. The sexton was turning out the lights, and a moment later Dick
found himself once more on the street, looking with a grim smile on his hunger-pinched features,
at the figure of the Christ, wrought in the costly stained glass window. "One of the least
of these," he muttered hoarsely to himself. Then the figure and the inscription slowly faded,
as one by one the lights went out, until at last it vanished and he seemed to hear his mother's
voice: "I ax ye fair--O Lord--take ker o' Dick--fer Jesus sake--Amen."

The door shut with a bang. A key grated in the heavy lock that guarded the treasures of the
church; and the footsteps of the church's humblest servant died away in the distance, as Dick
turned to move on again.

The city rumbled on with its business and its pleasure, its merriment and crime. Guardians
of the law protected the citizens by seeing to it that no ill-dressed persons sat too long
upon the depot benches, sheltered themselves from the bitter wind in the open hall-way, or
looked too hungrily in at the bakery windows.

On the avenue the homes grew hushed and still, with now and then a gleam of light from some
library or sitting-room window, accompanied by the tones of a piano or guitar,--or sound of
laughing voices. And the house of God stood silent, dark and cold, with the figure of the Christ
upon the window and the spire, like a giant hand, pointing upward.

CHAPTER III

"I declare to goodness, if that ain't the third tramp I've chased away from this house to-day!
I'll have father get a dog if this keeps up. They do pester a body pretty nigh to death." Mrs.
Wilson slammed the kitchen door and returned to her dish-washing. "The ide' of givin' good
victuals to them that's able to work--not much I won't--Let 'em do like I do." And the good
lady plied her dish-cloth with such energy that her daughter hastily removed the clean plates
and saucers from the table to avoid the necessity of drying them again.

"But this man wanted work, didn't he mother?" asked Clara, "And I heard you tell father at
dinner that you wanted someone to fix the cowshed and clean up the back yard."

"There you go again," angrily snapped the older woman, resting her wet hands upon her hips
and pausing in her labor, the better to emphasize her words; "Allus a criticisin' and a findin'
fault--Since you took up with that plagy church there aint been nothin' right."

"Forgive me mother, I didn't think," said the daughter, looking into the wrathful black eyes
of her parent.

"Didn't think," whined the woman, "You never think of nothin' but your blamed Young Folks'
Society or Sunday School. Your mother an' father and home aint good enough fer your saintship
now-a-days. I wish to goodness you'd never heard tell of that preacher; the whole set's a batch
of stingy hypocrites." She turned to her dish-washing again with a splash. "An' there's George
Udell, he aint going to keep hanging around forever, I can tell you; there's too many that'ud
jump at his offer, fer him to allus be a dancin' after you; an' when you git through with your
foolishness, you'll find him married and settled down with some other girl, an' what me and
your father'll do when we git too old to work, the Lord only knows. If you had half sense you'd
take him too quick."

Clara made no reply, but finishing her work in silence, hung up her apron and left the kitchen.

Later, when Mrs. Wilson went into the pleasant little sitting-room, where the flowers in the
window would bloom, and the pet canary would sing in spite of the habitual crossness of the
mistress of the house, she found her daughter attired for the street.

"Where are you going now?" she asked; "Some more foolishness, I'll be bound; you just take
them things off and stay to home; this here weather aint fit fer you to be trapsin round in.
You'll catch your death of cold; then I'll have to take care of you. I do believe, Clara Wilson,
you are the most ungratefulest girl I ever see."

"But mother, I just must go to the printing office this afternoon. Our society meets to-morrow
night and I must look after the printing of the constitution and by-laws."

"What office you goin' to?" asked the mother sharply.

"Why, George's, of course," said Clara; "You know I wouldn't go anywhere else."

"Oh well, get along then; I guess the weather won't hurt you; its clearin' off a little anyway.
I'll fix up a bit and you can bring George home to supper." And the old lady grew quite cheerful
as she watched the sturdy figure of her daughter making her way down the board walk and through
the front gate.

George Udell was a thriving job printer in Boyd City, and stood high in favor of the public
generally, and of the Wilson family in particular, as might be gathered from the conversation
of Clara's mother. "I tell you," she said, in her high-pitched tones, "George Udell is good
enough fer any gal. He don't put on as much style as some, an' aint much of a church man; but
when it comes to makin' money he's all there, an' that's the main thing now-a-days."

As for Clara, she was not insensible to the good points in Mr. Udell's character, of which
money-making was by no means the most important, for she had known him ever since the time,
when as a long, lank, awkward boy, he had brought her picture cards and bits of bright-colored
printing. She was a wee bit of a girl then, but somehow, her heart told her that her friend
was more honest than most boys, and, as she grew older, in spite of her religious convictions,
she had never been forced to change her mind.

But George Udell was not a Christian. Some said he was an infidel; at least he was not a member
of any church; and when approached on the subject, always insisted that he did not know what
he believed; and that he doubted very much if many church members knew more of their beliefs.
Furthermore; he had been heard upon several occasions to make slighting remarks about the church,
contrasting its present standing and work with the law of love and helpfulness as laid down
by the Master they professed to follow.

True, no one had ever heard him say that he did not believe in Christ or God. But what of that?
Had he not said that he did not believe in the church? And was not that enough to mark him
as an infidel?

Clara, in spite of her home training, was, as has been shown, a strong church member, a zealous
Christian, and an earnest worker for the cause of Christ. Being a practical girl, she admitted
that there were many faults in the church of today; and that Christians did not always live
up to their professions. But, bless you, you could not expect people to be perfect; and the
faults that existed in the church were there because all churches were not the same, which
really means, you of course understand-"all churches are not of my denomination." And so, in
spite of her regard for the printer, she could not bring herself to link her destiny with one
whose eternal future was so insecure, and whose life did not chord with that which was to her,
the one great keynote of the universe, the church. And then, too, does not the good book say:
"Be ye not unequally yoked with unbelievers." What could that mean if not, "Do not marry an
infidel?"

While Clara was thinking of all these things and making her way through the mud of Boyd City
streets, Udell, at the printing office, was having a particularly trying time. To begin with,
his one printer had gone off on a spree the Saturday before and failed to return. Then several
rush jobs had come in; he had tried in vain to get help; the boy had come late to the office,
and, altogether it seemed as though everything had happened that could happen to make things
uncomfortable.

Clara arrived on the scene just when the confusion was at its height; the room was littered
with scraps of paper and inky cloths; the famous printer's towel was lying on the desk; the
stove, with its hearth piled full of ashes, emitted smoke and coal gas freely; and the printer
was emptying the vials of his wrath upon the public in general, because all wanted their printing
done at the same instant; while the boy, with a comical look of fear upon his ink-stained face,
was dodging here and there, striving as best he could to avoid the threatening disaster.

The young girl's coming was like a burst of sunlight. In an instant the storm was past. The
boy's face resumed at once its usual expression of lofty indifference; the fire burned freely
in the stove; the towel was whisked into its proper corner; and she was greeted with the first
smile that had shown on the printer's face that day. "You're just in time," he cried gaily,
as he seated her in the cleanest corner of the office.

"I should think so," she answered, smiling, and glancing curiously about the room; "looks as
though you wanted a woman here."

"I do," declared George. "I've always wanted a woman; haven't I told you that often enough?"

"For shame, George Udell. I came here on business," Clara answered with glowing cheeks.

"Well, that's mighty important business for me," Udell answered. "You see--" but Clara interrupted
him.

"What's the matter here anyway?" she asked.

"Oh--nothing; only my man is off on a drunken spree, and everybody wants their stuff at the
same time. I worked until two o'clock last night; that's why I wasn't at your house; and I
must work tonight too. I'm--Yes, there's another;" as the telephone rang. "Hello!--Yes, this
is Udell's job office--We have the matter set up and will send you proof as soon as possible--I'm
sorry, but we are doing the best we can--Yes--all right--I'll get at it right away--three o'clock--can't
possibly get it out before"--bang! He hung up the receiver.

"I tell you this is making me thin. If you had half the influence at headquarters that you
profess to have, I wish you'd pray them to send me a printer."

"Why don't you get help?"

"Get help?--Get nothing! I tell you I've prayed, and threatened, and bribed, and promised,
as well as the best prayer-meeting church member you've got, and I can't get the sign of an
answer. Reckon the wire must be down," he added, a queer shadow of a smile twitching up the
corners of his mouth; "Y-e-s," as the phone rang again. "I wish that wire was down."

The girl noted the worn look on his rugged face, and when he had hung up the receiver again,
said: "I wish I could help you, George."

"You can, Clara,--you know you can," he answered quickly. "You can give me more help than the
ghost of Franklin himself. I don't mind the hard work, and the worry wouldn't amount to anything
if only--if only--" he stopped, as Clara shook her head.

"George, you know I have told you again and again--"

"But Clara," he broke in,--"I wouldn't in any way interfere with your church work. I'd even
go with you every Sunday, and you could pay the preacher as much as you liked. Don't you see,
dear, it couldn't possibly make any difference?"

"You don't understand, George," she answered, "and I can't make you see it; there's no use
talking, I can't, until you change your ideas about--"

The door opened and a weary, hungry, unshaven face looked in.--The door opened wider and a
figure came shuffling timidly toward the man and girl.

"What do you want?" said Udell, gruffly, a little put out at such an interruption.

"Are you the foreman of this office?" said the newcomer.

"Yes, I'm the boss."

"Do you need any help? I'm a printer."

"You a printer?" exclaimed Udell. "What's the matter?--No,"--he interrupted himself.-"Never
mind what the matter is. I don't care if you're wanted for horse stealing. Can you go to work
now?" The man nodded. Udell showed him to a case and placed copy before him. "There you are,
and the faster you work the better I'll pay you."

Again the other nodded, and without a word caught up a stick and reached for the type.

George turned back to Clara who had risen. "Don't go yet," he said.

"Oh, yes, I must; I have been here too long now; you have so much to do; I only wanted to get
that society printing." George handed her the package. "Who is he?" she whispered, with a look
toward the newcomer.

"Don't know; some bum I suppose; looks like he had been on a big spree. I only hope I can keep
him sober long enough to help me over this rush."

"You're wrong there," said the girl, moving toward the door, "He asked for work at our house
early this morning; that man is no drunkard, neither is he a common tramp."

"How do you know?"

"Same as I know you, by the looks," laughed Clara. "Go talk to him and find out. You see your
prayer was answered, even if you did pray like a church member. Who knows, perhaps the wire
is not down after all," and she was gone.

The printer turned to his work again with a lighter heart for this bit of brightness. Somehow
he felt that things would come out all right some day, and he would do the best he could to
be patient; and, for Clara's sake, while he could not be all she wished, he would make of himself
all that he could.

For a while, he was very busy with some work in the rear of the office; then remembering Clara's
strange words about the tramp, he went over to the case where the new man sat perched upon
his high stool. The stranger was working rapidly and doing good work. George noticed though,
that the hand which held the stick trembled; and that sometimes a letter dropped from the nervous
fingers. "What's the matter?" he asked, eyeing him keenly.

The man, without lifting his head, muttered, "Nothing."

"Are you sick?"

