Yesterday afternoon I was strolling down a certain fashionable street when a loud explosion
occurred in a near-by shop and a cloud of acrid grey smoke came rolling out. Being by nature
as inquisitive as a chipmunk I was on the point of shoving my head round the door-jamb to see
what was up when caution prompted me to turn round. Yes, there they were, of course, a tall,
thin youth winding away at a cine-camera like an Italian at a barrel-organ, and beside him
a heavy-weight Israelite, dancing a war-dance, waving bunches of typescript and howling at
me to stand clear. I had very near ruined a further mile or two of film.

I sprang out of range, and then, wishing to atone for my previous blunders and prove that I
really had no malevolent intentions towards a struggling industry, I went round and assisted
the caracoling producer in stemming the crowd. Among others I stemmed a pushful policeman.
I didn't notice he was a policeman until he was biting the dust, with my stick between his
legs. However an instantaneous application of palm-oil made it all right between us, and he
squatted half-stunned on the kerb, nursing his brow with one hand, my five bob with the other
and took no further interest in the proceedings. And very interesting they were, too.

Three masked men dashed out of the shop laden with booty and were pursued by a fourth, whom
they knocked on the head and left lying for dead on the pavement. Most realistic. The crowd,
led by me, cheered like mad. Then the thieves jumped into a waiting car and were whirled away.
That done, the photographer and his step-dancing friend leapt into a second car and were whirled
away also. Once more we cheered. I made a short speech to the effect that everything was all
right with the British Cinema business and, after leading a few more cheers for myself, came home.

"Well," you say, "all very jolly and so on, but what about it?"

There's this about it, old companion, just this, that I am very probably spending a meditative
winter in gaol. The charge is that I did aid and abet a peculiarly ingenious gang of desperadoes
to blow a jeweller's safe, knock the jeweller on the head and get safely away with the stuff.
I am even accused of obstructing the police. An inspector has been round to see me this morning
and he tells me there is practically no hope. He advises me, as between friends, to make a
clean breast of it, return the boodle, betray my accomplices, plead mental deficiency and trust
to the clemency of the Court. It's pretty rough, after making all arrangements for spending
a cheerful Christmas in Algiers, to have it changed to cold porridge in Parkhurst or Princetown.
Of the two I hope it'll be Parkhurst, for Princetown, so habitués tell me, is no place for
a growing lad when the wintry winds do blow.

Thine, de profundis PATLANDER.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

Rhymes of Unrest.

    There was a young miner of Ayr
    Who gave himself up to despair;
      For he said, "If we're paid
      On our 'get,' I'm afraid
    That I canna ca' canny no mair."

    "Strike while the iron is hot,"
      Said the wise old saw of old;
    But the miners say, "What rot!
      Strike while the weather's cold."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The art of decoration is alien to painting in this--that you must
    mix your colours with your brains."--Daily Paper.

We await a reply from the intellectuals of Chelsea.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "There is one building now being erected, within a few miles of
    Manchester as the cock crows."--Provincial Paper.

We are unfamiliar with this method of mensuration.

       *       *       *       *       *

ABOUT CONFERENCES.

WE may not have coal, but we can have conferences. A conference is the most typically English
thing that there is. The old Anglo-Saxons had them and called them moots. Why they called them
a silly name like that, when "conferences" would have done just as well, one can't imagine;
but they had their notions and stuck to them. They would have called Parliament a moot; in
fact they did. They called it a moot of wise men. Sarcastic beggars, these Anglo-Saxons!

The advantages of having a conference about everything are almost too numerous to explain.
For one thing, suppose Smith is coming to see you at 2.30 P.M. "It's no use his waiting now,"
you say. "I've got a conference at 3. Tell him to come back at 5.30." And when he comes back
at 5.30 of course the conference is still going on, so you don't have to see him at all.

There is nothing again that makes you feel so deliciously important as being at a conference.
You may be a leader of quite an insignificant body of workers, like the Nutcracker-Teeth Makers'
Union, but you rub shoulders at a conference with men whose names are a household word throughout
the whole of Great Britain, amongst those who have houses. The distinguished and the undistinguished
lay their heads together; the spat-wearing get their feet mixed with the non-spat-wearing;
though there is rather a fake, mind you, about this spat-wearing business, for it may simply
mean that the uppers are very badly worn, or that only that very bright pink pair of socks
came home from the wash this week, or even that there are no socks underneath at all.

But anyhow, at a conference, Tom, Dick and Harry hobnob with Bob, James and George, and all
are equal, except perhaps the chairman, who has two more pens in front of him and a much larger
ash-tray. Mr. BEVIN and Sir ERIC GEDDES smile affably across at each other, and the PRIME MINISTER
and Mr. CRAMP find out how much they have in common, such as love of poetry and pelargoniums.
The mine-owner offers the miners' representative a cigarette, and the miners' representative
says to the mine-owner, "Many thanks, old boy; but I'll have one of my own." And after it is
over they all go out and stand arm-in-arm in a long row to be photographed for the papers,
and are read next morning from left to right. It is the ambition of every properly constituted
Englishman to wake up some morning and find that his portrait is being read from left to right;
but how few succeed.

The total output of conferences in this country during one year has never been computed yet,
but it is supposed to exceed that of any country in the world, except Red India. If there were
to be a strike of conferents or conferees, whatever they are called, in England, it is impossible
to say what would happen. But it might be possible to lay down a datum line--a shilling extra
for the first million words above two hundred and fifty million per shift, and two shillings
more for every million words above that. Fortunately this will never be necessary, for people
who confer are so fond of conferences that they will never down chairs.

And no wonder. Only a very strong man can hew coal, and only a very reckless one can make a
speech, but almost anyone can confer if he has a large enough ash-tray; and there seems no
reason why more people shouldn't confer. Everybody is interested in conferences, whatever they
are about, and the British public ought to be admitted to this kind of thing. One is always
reading in the paper that the sound commonsense or the traditional sense of fair play of the
great British public will support the miners in any just claim; but this claim is not just
or just isn't, or something of that sort. But how do they know what the great British public
will feel about it? They aren't there, are they? There ought to be representatives of the G.B.P.
on all these conferences. They ought to be chosen from a rota, like jurymen. Very likely one
of them would have found out what a datum line is, anyway. There's a man who comes up in the
train with me in the morning who thinks he knows, but unfortunately he gets out at Croydon
so we haven't found out yet.

By having a lot more conferences and having a lot of representatives from the public on them
all, and paying them well for it, one could practically settle the unemployment problem for
the winter. If the Government can only be brought to see that this is the only statesmanlike
course, and the sole course consistent with the Anglo-Saxon sense of justice, and capable of
leading to a satisfactory Exploration of Avenues, Finding of Bridges and Discovery of Ways
Out, we may all achieve our life's ambition some day and open the morning paper to find that
we are being read at last from left to right. "Mr. ROBERT WILLIAMS, Mr. LLOYD GEORGE, Mr. J.
H. THOMAS, Lord RIDDELL," and so on and so on, till you come at last to "J. Smith, Esq., R.B.P.,"
smiling the widest of all. R.B.P.'s, I think, should wear a distinguishing mark--a single spat
perhaps. EVOE.

       *       *       *       *       *

MORE SECRET HISTORY.

    [According to a report in a daily paper, at the recent Peace
    Conference held at Spa, where the delegates were royally
    entertained in the matter of hotel accommodation, meals,
    etc., the cigar bill (which has been sent in to the League
    of Nations and sent out again) amounted to three thousand
    two hundred pounds. What the delegates could not smoke they
    seem to have taken away with them.]

    'TIS sweet in darkish times like these to see a
      Rent in the veil which keeps the public blind,
    And thus obtain a pretty shrewd idea
      Of what goes on behind;

    To note how quite an innocent report'll
      Reveal apparent trifles which befall,
    Proving that men whom we supposed immortal
      Are human after all.

    But here, while I can hardly call you blameful
      For smoking "free" cigars with so much zest,
    Frankly I feel 'twas little short of shameful
      To go and pinch the rest.

    I can forgive your huge hotel expenses;
      Your beef was rightly of a super-cut;
    A modicum of wine does whet the senses;
      But those cigars--tut, tut!

    For there's a finer aid to meditation,
      Much more appropriate, in my humble view,
    When Nation nestles cheek by jowl with Nation,
      And far, far cheaper too.

    So, if you'd really slay Bellona's bow-wows,
      Might I suggest your vicious ways should cease,
    And that in future you conduct your pow-wows
      Over the pipe of peace.

       *       *       *       *       *

An Affectionate Diminutive.

    "Lord Buxton, who retired this summer from the post of High
    Commissioner and Governor-General of South Africa, has been made an
    early."--Daily Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

A correspondent, referring to Mr. Punch's quotation (from an Australian paper) of the title
of a song, "It was a Lover and His Last," suggests "Ne suitor ultra crepidam."

       *       *       *       *       *

On the coal strike:--

    "We look to the Government to keep all doors open. We look to the
    public to keep cool."--Westminster Gazette.

The public should have no difficulty in doing its part if the Government do theirs.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CONSPIRATORS.

V.

MY DEAR CHARLES,--Let me remind you that the Bolshevist conspirator has to stir up conflagrations
in other countries without leaving his own. Passports and things are put in to make it more
difficult when he comes to getting his inflammable material and directions for use over the
frontier. So he has to invent a way over the obstacles.

The first prize is awarded to the following: Secret instructions are printed in Arabic and
the pages containing them are bound up in a five hundred page book in that language. The courier,
an Oriental, carries this book openly in his hand when he presents himself at the frontier.
It is ten to one that an innocent-looking book, thus carried, will not be suspected; a hundred
to one against there being an official capable of reading it; five hundred to three against
that official trying one of the guilty pages, if he is there and duly suspicious. Yet, with
a hundred and sixty-six thousand chances against it, our Little Man got hold of those instructions.

The Sherlock Holmes of fiction is a gaunt figure, with a hatchet face, spare of flesh. Our
Little Man is a chubby lad, standing about four foot ten in his stockinged feet, rubicund and
corpulent, and he wears a mackintosh with a very mackintoshy smell in all weathers. He never
did a day's work, and he never means to try, but he is a genius at getting it out of others.
Some say he is of Swiss origin, some say he is American, and some say that surely he must be
Chinese; he was never certain himself until Czecho-Slovak was invented, and he plumped for
that. He has the degree of Master of Arts; what arts I don't know; probably the black ones.
His inner knowledge of the human species seems to give him plenty to laugh at. He notices everything,
forgets nothing, and there is never a weakness in a man but he is on to it. He made up his
mind that those secret instructions were passing and set about to find how they passed and
what they were. He was too lazy to begin at the beginning, so he began at the end. He called
in person, as a commercial traveller, at the suspected office of destination, and in the short
time available ascertained that the door-keeper who turned him out was a patriotic and fervent
admirer of the wine of the country.

Our Little Man had no vulgar idea of getting the secret out of him by making him drunk. If
there was a secret it wouldn't be in the door-keeper. But he and that door-keeper got to drinking
together and the door-keeper did all the paying; the drinking and the paying went on by progressive
degrees till the door-keeper had no money and only a still almighty thirst left. The Little
Man left him with his thirst for a few days, until it became intolerable, and the door-keeper
insisted that something simply must be done about it. The Little Man regretted that he could
not give the necessary money to finance further orgies, but he would gladly advance it. Four
nights got the door-keeper well in his debt, and our Little Man then began to talk about repayment.
The door-keeper said he had no money; the Little Man said he must get it. Off whom? His employer.

How was the door-keeper to get his employer's money off him? By selling him a safe. Our Little
Man then divulged that he was in reality a commercial traveller in safes; if the door-keeper
would get his employer to buy one of his safes the Little Man would forgive him his debt by
way of commission. He felt sure that the Head of the Office had a weakness for precautions.
The door-keeper, now enthusiastic, said he should just think he had! The Little Man felt he
was getting warm. The door-keeper put the deal through and prevailed upon his master to instal
a really safe safe in the office, instead of the old one. You had only to look at it to see
it was impregnable by fire, water or the King's Enemies. But one set of keys stayed with the
Little Man.

The drinking (by both) and the paying (by the door-keeper) were resumed. When the debt was
again large enough the Little Man imposed new terms. This time he wanted to see the Head of
the Office himself, to put further deals through. The door-keeper thought deeply, but could
see no harm in this. The Little Man was thus introduced into the presence, and startled it
by pointing to the safe and offering to do burglar on it any night of the week. The Head was
manifestly concerned.

"We have here," said the Little Man, producing two formidable slabs of steel hinged together
and leaving room between them when locked for a wad of papers only--"we have here a special
strong box exactly suited for the storage of your bank-notes. Put them in this box, and the
box in the safe, and then you really are ahead of your enemies."

The Head bought. He gave the Little Man less money than he had spent on the strong box, and
the Little Man gave him less keys than he was entitled to. The drinking and the debt were resumed,
and, when it came to a question of settlement for the third time, the Little Man pointed out
to the door-keeper that, if he hadn't the money to repay, then he must steal it. He now divulged
that he was not really a broker, but a breaker of safes and strong boxes. He handed the door-keeper
a key of his employer's safe. In the safe would be found the strong box. In the strong box
would be found some notes of high value, unless he was very much mistaken.

So the door-keeper went and opened the safe and returned. And the Little Man opened the strong
box, and he was very much mistaken. There was never a note there; just half-a-dozen pages torn
out of a book printed in Arabic.

He was so angry that he gave the strong box one on the lid for itself, with the result that
he couldn't lock it again. However, he said he had a friend who could lock or unlock anything,
and he left the door-keeper drinking, for the first time at the Little Man's expense, while
he took off the box to be repaired by his friend. The latter happened to be in the next room
with a camera. The pages were photographed; the Little Man returned to the door-keeper with
the strong box, now capable of being re-locked; the door-keeper returned to the office and
put back the strong box, locked, into the safe, which he also locked, and was wiping the sweat
off his forehead and congratulating himself that no one was the worse, when he was startled
to find a policeman had been watching him all the time.

But he proved to be a very amenable policeman. He said he would take no action before he and
the door-keeper had had time to talk it over next day. By the time that talk came the photographs
had been developed, printed and translated. But the policeman did not wish to bore the door-keeper
with the tiresome details. To put it quite shortly the policeman thought it was a most excellent
crime, worthy of repetition at intervals.

Yours ever,        HENRY.

(To be continued.)

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW RHYMES FOR OLD CHILDREN.

THE ----.

    I NEVER know why it should be
    So rude to talk about the ----.
      What funny folk we are!
    I think we've got the jealous hump
    Because we see we'll never jump
      So skilfully and far.
    For, if one's nibbled by a gnat
    Or harvest-bugs or things like that,
      One seldom keeps it dark;
    One may enlarge upon the tale
    If one is gobbled by a whale
      Or swallowed by a shark;
    But if you speak about the bite
    Of this abandoned parasite
      You're very, very rash;
    So sure is it to raise a frown
    I dare not even write it down;
      I simply put a ----.
    None but an entomologist
    Will quite admit the things exist,
    And generally they insist
      On using other names;
    For, when at night Professors leap
    Out of their scientific sleep
    Because these little devils keep
      Playing their usual games,
    They never shout, "It seems to be
    A something, something, something ----!"
    (The word is never used, you see,
      Except by artisans);
    No, as they fling the bedclothes high
    They give a wild but cultured cry,
    "Confound it! Botheration! Hi!
      A Pulex irritans!" A. P. H.

       *       *       *       *       *

Our Ruthless Motorists.

