That unorganized, unpaid public service of public-spirited aristocratic and wealthy financial
and business people, the "governing class," which dominated the British Empire throughout the
nineteenth century, has, through the absence of definite class boundaries in England and the
readiness of each class to take its tone from the class above, that "Snobbishness" which is
so often heedlessly dismissed as altogether evil, given a unique quality to British thought
upon public questions and to British conceptions of Socialism. It has made the British mind
as a whole "administrative." As compared with the American mind, for example, the British is
State-conscious, the American State-blind. The American is no doubt intensely patriotic, but
the nation and the State to which his patriotism points is something overhead and comprehensive
like the sky, like a flag hoisted; something, indeed, that not only does not but must not interfere
with his ordinary business occupations. To have public spirit, to be aware of the State as
a whole and to have an administrative feeling towards it, is necessarily to be accessible to
constructive ideas--that is to say, to Socialistic ideas. In the history of thought in Victorian
Great Britain, one sees a constant conflict of this administrative disposition with the individualistic
commercialism of the aggressively trading and manufacturing class, the class that in America
reigns unchallenged to this day. In the latter country Individualism reigns unchallenged, it
is assumed; in the former it has fought an uphill fight against the traditions of Church and
State and has never absolutely prevailed. The political economists and Herbert Spencer were
its prophets, and they never at any time held the public mind in any invincible grip. Since
the eighties that grip has weakened more and more. Socialistic thought and legislation, therefore,
was going on in Great Britain through all the Victorian period. Nevertheless, it was the Fabian
Society that, in the eighties and through the intellectual impetus of at most four or five
personalities, really brought this obstinately administrative spirit in British affairs into
relation with Socialism as such.

The dominant intelligence of this group was Mr. Sidney Webb, and as I think of him thus coming
after Marx to develop the third phase of Socialism, I am struck by the contrast with the big-bearded
Socialist leaders of the earlier school and this small, active, unpretending figure with the
finely-shaped head, the little imperial under the lip, the glasses, the slightly lisping, insinuating
voice. He emerged as a Colonial Office clerk of conspicuous energy and capacity, and he was
already the leader and "idea factory" of the Fabian Society when he married Miss Beatrice Potter,
the daughter of a Conservative Member of Parliament, a girl friend of Herbert Spencer, and
already a brilliant student of sociological questions. Both he and she are devotees to social
service, living laborious, ordered, austere, incessant lives, making the employment of secretaries
their one extravagance, and alternations between research and affairs their change of occupation.
A new type of personality altogether they were in the Socialist movement, which had hitherto
been richer in eloquence than discipline. And during the past twenty years of the work of the
Fabian Society through their influence, one dominant question has prevailed. Assuming the truth
of the two main generalizations of Socialism, taking that statement of intention for granted,
how is the thing to be done? They put aside the glib assurances of the revolutionary Socialists
that everything would be all right when the People came to their own; and so earned for themselves
the undying resentment of all those who believe the world is to be effectually mended by a
liberal use of chest notes and red flags. They insisted that the administrative and economic
methods of the future must be a secular development of existing institutions, and inaugurated
a process of study--which has long passed beyond the range of the Fabian Society, broadening
out with the organized work of the New University of London, with its special School of Economics
and Political Science and of a growing volume of university study in England and America--to
the end that this "how?" should be answered....

The broad lines of the process of transition from the present state of affairs to the Socialist
state of the future as they are developed by administrative Socialism lie along the following
lines.

1. The peaceful and systematic taking over from private enterprise, by purchase or otherwise,
whether by the national or by the municipal authorities as may be most convenient, of the great
common services of land control, mining, transit, food supply, the drink trade, lighting, force
supply and the like.

2. Systematic expropriation of private owners by death-duties and increased taxation.

3. The building up of a great scientifically organized administrative machinery to carry on
these enlarging public functions.

4. A steady increase and expansion of public education, research, museums, libraries and all
such public services. The systematic promotion of measures for raising the school-leaving age,
for the public feeding of school children, for the provision of public baths, parks, playgrounds
and the like.

5. The systematic creation of a great service of public health to take over the disorganized
confusion of hospitals and other charities, sanitary authorities, officers of health and private
enterprise medical men.

6. The recognition of the claim of every citizen to welfare by measures for the support of
mothers and children and by the establishment of old-age pensions.

7. The systematic raising of the minimum standard of life by factory and other labour legislation,
and particularly by the establishment of a legal minimum wage....

These are the broad forms of the Fabian Socialist's answer to the question of how, with which
the revolutionary Socialists were confronted. The diligent student of Socialism will find all
these proposals worked out to a very practicable-looking pitch indeed in that Bible of Administrative
Socialism, the collected tracts of the Fabian Society,[21] and to that volume I must refer
him. The theory of the minimum standard and the minimum wage is explained, moreover, with the
utmost lucidity in that Socialist classic, Industrial Democracy, by Sidney and Beatrice Webb.
It is a theory that must needs be mastered by every intelligent Socialist, but it is well to
bear in mind that the method of the minimum wage is no integral part of the general Socialist
proposition, and that it still lies open to discussion and modification.

   [21] Fabian Tracts. (Fabian Society, 5s.)

§ 2.

Every movement has the defects of its virtues, and it is not, perhaps, very remarkable that
the Fabian Society of the eighties and nineties, having introduced the conception of the historical
continuity of institutions into the Propaganda of Socialism, did certainly for a time greatly
over-accentuate that conception and draw away attention from aspects that may be ultimately
more essential.

Beginning with the proposition that the institutions and formulæ of the future must necessarily
be developed from those of the present, that one cannot start de novo even after a revolution;
one may easily end in an attitude of excessive conservatism towards existing machinery. In
spite of the presence of such fine and original intelligences as Mr. (now Sir) Sydney Olivier
and Mr. Graham Wallas in the Fabian counsels, there can be no denial that for the first twenty
years of its career, Mr. Webb was the prevailing Fabian. Now his is a mind legal as well as
creative, and at times his legal side quite overcomes his constructive element; he is extraordinarily
fertile in expedients and skilful in adaptation, and with a real horror of open destruction.
This statement by no means exhausts him, but it does to a large extent convey the qualities
that were uppermost in the earlier years, at any rate, of his influence. It was another instance
of Socialism losing sight of itself, it was a process quite parallel at the other extreme with
the self-contradiction of the Anarchist-Socialist. Socialism as distinguished from mere Liberalism,
for example, is an organized plan for social reconstruction, while Liberalism relies upon certain
vague "principles"; Socialism declares that good intentions and doing what comes first to hand
will not suffice. Now Opportunism is essentially benevolent adventure and the doing of first-hand
things. Webb himself devoted immense industry and capacity to the London County Council--it
is impossible to measure the share he has had in securing such great public utilities as water
supply, traction and electric supply, for example, from complete exploitation by private profit
seekers, but certainly it is a huge one--and throughout England and presently in America, there
went on a collateral activity of Fabian Socialists. They worked like a ferment in municipal
politics, encouraging and developing local pride and local enterprise in public works. In the
case of large public bodies, working in suitable areas and commanding the services of men of
high quality, striking advances in Social organization were made, but in the case of smaller
bodies in unsuitable districts and with no attractions for people of gifts and training, the
influence of Fabianism did on the whole produce effects that have tended to discredit Socialism.
Aggressive, ignorant and untrained men and women, usually neither inspired by Socialist faith
nor clearly defining themselves as Socialists, persons too often of wavering purpose and doubtful
honesty, got themselves elected in a state of enthusiasm to undertake public functions and
challenge private enterprise under conditions that doomed them to waste and failure. This was
the case in endless parish councils and urban districts; it was also the case in many London
boroughs. It has to be admitted by Socialists with infinite regret that the common borough-council
Socialist is too often a lamentable misrepresentative of the Socialist idea.

The creation of the London Borough Councils found English Socialism unprepared. They were bodies
doomed by their nature to incapacity and waste. They represented neither natural communities
nor any practicable administrative unit of area. Their creation was the result of quite silly
political considerations. The slowness with which Socialists have realized that for the larger
duties that they wish to have done collectively, a new scheme of administration is necessary;
that bodies created to sweep the streets and admirably adapted to that duty may be conspicuously
not adapted to supply electric power or interfere with transit, is accountable for much disheartening
bungling. Instead of taking a clear line from the outset, and denouncing these glorified vestries
as useless, impossible and entirely unscientific organs, too many Socialists tried to claim
Bumble as their friend and use him as their tool. And Bumble turned out to be a very bad friend
and a very poor tool....

