The Everett Massacre

By Walker C. Smith

A History of the Class Struggle in the Lumber Industry

I. W. W. Publishing Bureau Chicago, Ill.

This book is dedicated to those loyal soldiers of the great class war who were murdered on
the steamer Verona at Everett, Washington, in the struggle for free speech and free assembly
and the right to organize:

     FELIX BARAN,
     HUGO GERLOT,
     GUSTAV JOHNSON,
     JOHN LOONEY,
     ABRAHAM RABINOWITZ,

and those unknown martyrs whose bodies were swept out to unmarked ocean graves on Sunday, November
Fifth, 1916.

PRINTED BY THE MEMBERS OF THE GENERAL RECRUITING UNION I. W. W.

PREFACE

In ten minutes of seething, roaring hell at the Everett dock on the afternoon of Sunday, November
5, 1916, there was more of the age-old superstition regarding the identity of interests between
capital and labor torn from the minds of the working people of the Pacific Northwest than could
have been cleared away by a thousand lecturers in a year. It is with regret that we view the
untimely passing of the seven or more Fellow Workers who were foully murdered on that fateful
day, but if the working class of the world can view beyond their mangled forms the hideous
brutality that was the cause of their deaths, they will not have died in vain.

This book is published with the hope that the tragedy at Everett may serve to set before the
working class so clear a view of capitalism in all its ruthless greed that another such affair
will be impossible.

C. E. PAYNE.

With grateful acknowledgments to C. E. Payne for valuable assistance in preparing the subject
matter, to Harry Feinberg in consultation, to Marie B. Smith in revising manuscript, and to
J. J. Kneisle for photographs.

EVERETT, NOVEMBER FIFTH

By Charles Ashleigh

["* * * and then the Fellow Worker died, singing 'Hold the Fort' * * *"--From the report of
a witness.]

         Song on his lips, he came;
           Song on his lips, he went;--
         This be the token we bear of him,--
           Soldier of Discontent!

     Out of the dark they came; out of the night
       Of poverty and injury and woe,--
     With flaming hope, their vision thrilled to light,--
       Song on their lips, and every heart aglow;

     They came, that none should trample Labor's right
       To speak, and voice her centuries of pain.
     Bare hands against the master's armored might!--
       A dream to match the tools of sordid gain!

     And then the decks went red; and the grey sea
       Was written crimsonly with ebbing life.
     The barricade spewed shots and mockery
       And curses, and the drunken lust of strife.

     Yet, the mad chorus from that devil's host,--
       Yea, all the tumult of that butcher throng,--
     Compound of bullets, booze and coward boast,--
       Could not out-shriek one dying worker's song!

The Everett Massacre

CHAPTER I.

THE LUMBER KINGDOM

Perhaps the real history of the rise of the lumber industry in the Pacific Northwest will never
be written. It will not be set down in these pages. A fragment--vividly illustrative of the
whole, yet only a fragment--is all that is reproduced herein. But if that true history be written,
it will tell no tales of "self-made men" who toiled in the woods and mills amid poverty and
privation and finally rose to fame and affluence by their own unaided effort. No Abraham Lincoln
will be there to brighten its tarnished pages. The story is a more sordid one and it has to
do with the theft of public lands; with the bribery and corruption of public officials; with
the destruction and "sabotage," if the term may be so misused, of the property of competitors;
with base treachery and double-dealing among associated employers; and with extortion and coercion
of the actual workers in the lumber industry by any and every means from the "robbersary" company
stores to the commission of deliberate murder.

No sooner had the larger battles among the lumber barons ended in the birth of the lumber trust
than there arose a still greater contest for control of the industry. Lumberjack engaged lumber
baron in a struggle for industrial supremacy; on the part of the former a semi-blind groping
toward the light of freedom and for the latter a conscious striving to retain a seat of privilege.
Nor can the full history of that struggle be written here, for the end is not yet, but no one
who has read the past rightly can doubt the ultimate outcome. That history, when finally written,
will recite tales of heroism and deeds of daring and unassuming acts of bravery on the part
of obscure toilers beside which the vaunted prowess of famous men will seem tawdry by comparison.
Today the perspective is lacking. Time alone will vindicate the rebellious workers in their
fight for freedom. From all this travail and pain is to be born an Industrial Democracy.

The lumber industry dominated the whole life of the Northwest. The lumber trust had absolute
sway in entire sections of the country and held the balance of power in many other places.
It controlled Governors, Legislatures and Courts; directed Mayors and City Councils; completely
owned Sheriffs and Deputies; and thru threats of foreclosure, blackmail, the blacklist and
the use of armed force it dominated the press and pulpit and terrorized many other elements
in each community. The sworn testimony in the greatest case in labor history bears out these
statements. Out of their own mouths were the lumber barons and their tools condemned. For,
let it be known, the great trial in Seattle, Wash., in the year 1917, was not a trial of Thomas
H. Tracy and his co-defendants. It was a trial of the lumber trust, a trial of so-called "law
and order," a trial of the existing method of production and exchange and the social relations
that spring from it,--and the verdict was that Capitalism is guilty of Murder in the First Degree.

To get even a glimpse into the deeper meaning of the case that developed from the conflict
at Everett, Wash., it is necessary to know something of the lives of the migratory workers,
something of the vital necessity of free speech to the working class and to all society for
that matter, and also something about the basis of the lumber industry and the foundation of
the city of Everett. The first two items very completely reveal themselves thru the medium
of the testimony given by the witnesses for the defense, while the other matters are covered
briefly here.

The plundering of public lands was a part of the policy of the lumber trust. Large holdings
were gathered together thru colonization schemes, whereby tracts of 160 acres were homesteaded
by individuals with money furnished by the lumber operators. Often this meant the mere loaning
of the individual's name, and in many instances the building of a home was nothing more than
the nailing together of three planks. Other rich timber lands were taken up as mineral claims
altho no trace of valuable ore existed within their confines. All this timber fell into the
hands of the lumber trust. In addition to this there were large companies who logged for years
on forty acre strips. This theft of timber on either side of a small holding is the basis of
many a fortune and the possessors of this stolen wealth can be distinguished today by their
extra loud cries for "law and order" when their employes in the woods and mills go on strike
to add a few more pennies a day to their beggarly pittance.

Altho cheaper than outright purchase from actual settlers, these methods of timber theft proved
themselves quite costly and the public outcry they occasioned was not to the liking of the
lumber barons. To facilitate the work of the lumber trust and at the same time placate the
public, nothing better than the Forest Reserve could possibly have been devised. The establishment
of the National Forest Reserves was one of the long steps taken in the United States in monopolizing
both the land and the timber of the country.

The first forest reserves were established February 22, 1898, when 22,000,000 acres were set
aside as National Forests. Within the next eight years practically all the public forest lands
in the United States that were of any considerable extent had been set off into these reserves,
and by 1913 there had been over 291,000 square miles included within their confines.[1] This
immense tract of country was withdrawn from the possibility of homestead entry at approximately
the time that the Mississippi Valley and the eastern slope of the Rocky Mountains had been
settled and brought under private ownership. Whether the purpose was to put the small sawmills
out of business can not be definitely stated, but the lumber trust has profited largely from
the establishment of the forest reserves.

So long as there was in the United States a large and open frontier to be had for the taking
there could be no very prolonged struggle against an owning class. It has been easier for those
having nothing to go but a little further and acquire property for themselves. But on coming
to what had been the frontier and finding a forest reserve with range riders and guards on
its boundaries to prevent trespassing; on looking back and seeing all land and opportunities
taken; on turning again to the forest reserve and finding a foreman of the lumber trust within
its borders offering wages in lieu of a home, it was inevitable that a conflict should occur.

With the capitalistic system of industry in operation, the conflict between the landless homeseekers
and the owners of the vast accumulations of capital would inevitably have taken place, but
this clash has come at least a generation earlier because of the establishment of the National
Forests than it otherwise would. The land now in reserves would furnish homes and comfortable
livings for ten million people, and have absorbed the surplus population for another generation.
It is also true that the establishment of the National Forests has been one of the vital factors
that made the continued existence of the lumber trust possible.

Prior to 1895 the shipments of lumber to the prairie states from west of the Rocky Mountains
were very small, and of no effect on the domination of the lumber industry by the trust. Also,
prior to that date but a small part of the valuable timber west of the Rocky Mountains had
been brought under private ownership. But about this time the pioneer settlers began swarming
over the Pacific Slope and taking the free government land as homesteads. As the timber land
was taken up, floods of lumber from the Pacific Coast met the lumber of the trust on the great
prairies. The lumber trust had looted the government land and the Indian reservations in the
middle states of their timber, and had almost full control of the prairie markets until the
lumber of the Pacific Slope began to arrive. In 1896 lumber from the Puget Sound was sold in
Dakota for $16.00 per thousand feet, and it kept coming in a constantly increasing volume and
of a better quality than the trust was shipping from the East. It was but natural that the
trust should seek a means to stifle the constantly increasing competition from the homesteads
of the West, and the means was found in the establishment of the National Forest Reserves.

While the greater portion of North America was yet a wilderness, the giving of vast tracts
of valuable land on the remote frontier to private individuals and companies could be accomplished.
But at this time such a procedure would have been impossible, tho it was imperative for the
life of the trust that the timber of the Pacific Slope should be withdrawn from the possibility
of homestead entry. In order to carry out this scheme it was necessary to raise a cry of "Benefit
to the Public" and make it appear that this new public policy was in the interest of future
generations. The cry was raised that the public domain was being used for private gain, that
the timber was being wastefully handled, that unnecessary amounts were being cut, that the
future generations would find themselves without timber, that the watersheds were being denuded
and that drought and floods would be the certain result, that the nation should receive a return
for the timber that was taken, together with many other specious pleas.

That the public domain was being used for private gain was in some instances true, but the
vast majority of the timber land was being taken as homesteads, and thus taking the timber
outside the control of the trust. That the timber was being wastefully handled was to some
extent true, but this was inevitable in the development of a new industry in a new country,
and so far as the Pacific Slope is concerned there is but little change from the methods of
twenty years ago. That unnecessary amounts were being cut was sometimes true, but this served
only to keep prices down, and from the standpoint of the trust was unpardonable on that account
alone. The market is being supplied now as formerly, and with as much as it will take. The
only means that has been used to restrict the amount cut has been to raise the price to about
double what it was in 1896. The denuding of the watersheds of the continent goes on today the
same as it did twenty-five years ago, the only consideration being whether there is a market
for the timber. Some reforesting has been done, and some protection has been established for
the prevention of fires, but these things have been much in the nature of an advertisement
since the government has taken charge of the forests, and was done automatically by the homesteaders
before the Reserves were established. There has never been any restriction in the amount of
timber that any company could buy, and the more it wanted, the better chance it had of getting
it. The nation is receiving some return from the sale of timber from the government land, but
it is in the nature of a division of the spoils from a raid on the homes of the landless.

When the Reserve were established, the Secretary of the Interior was empowered to "make rules
and regulations for the occupancy and the use of the forests and preserve them from destruction."
No attempt was made in the General Land Office to develop a technical forestry service. The
purpose of the administration was mainly protection against trespass and fire. The methods
of the administration were to see to it first that there were no trespassers. Fire protection
came later. When the Reserves were established, people who were at the time living within their
boundaries were compelled to submit the titles of their homesteads to the most rigid scrutiny,
and many people who had complied with the spirit of the law were dispossessed on mere technicalities,
while before the establishment of the Reserve system the spirit of the compliance with the
homestead law was mainly considered, and very seldom the technicality. And while the Forestry
Service was examining all titles to homesteads within the boundaries of the Reserve with the
utmost care, the large lumbering companies were given the best of consideration, and were allowed
all the timber they requested and a practically unlimited time to remove it.

The system of dealing with the lumber trust has been most liberal on the part of the government.
A company wanting several million feet of timber makes a request to the district office to
have the timber of a certain amount and on a certain tract offered for sale. The Forestry Service
makes an estimate of the minimum value of the timber as it stands in the tree and the amount
of timber requested within that tract is then offered for sale at a given time, the bids to
be sent in by mail and accompanied by certified checks. The bids must be at least as large
as the minimum price set by the Forestry Service, and highest bidder is awarded the timber,
on condition that he satisfies the Forestry Service that he is responsible and will conduct
the logging according to rules and regulations. The system seems fair, and open to all, until
the conditions are known.

But among the large lumber companies there has never been any real competition for the possession
of any certain tract of timber that was listed for sale by request. When one company has decided
on asking for the allotment of any certain tract of timber, other companies operating within
that forest seldom make bids on that tract. Any small company that is doing business in opposition
to the trust companies, and may desire to bid on an advertised tract, even tho its bid may
be greater than the bid of the trust company, will find its offer thrown out as being "not
according to the Government specifications," or the company is "not financially responsible,"
or some other suave explanation for refusing to award the tract to the competing company. On
the other hand, when a small company requests that some certain tract shall be listed for sale,
it very frequently happens that one of the large companies that is commonly understood to be
affiliated with the lumber trust will have a bid in for that tract that is slightly above that
of the non-trust company, and the timber is solemnly awarded to "the highest bidder."

When a company is awarded a tract of timber, the payment that is required is ten per cent of
the purchase price at the time of making the award, and the balance is to be paid when the
logs are on the landing, or practically when they can be turned into ready cash, thus requiring
but a comparatively small outlay of money to obtain the timber. When the award is made, it
is the policy of the Forestry Service to be on friendly terms with the customers, and the men
who scale the logs and supervise the cutting are the ones who come into direct contact with
the companies, and it is inevitable that to be on good terms with the foreman the supervision
and scaling must be "satisfactory." Forestry Service men who have not been congenial with the
foremen of the logging companies have been transferred to other places, and it is almost axiomatic
that three transfers is the same as a discharge. The little work that is required of the companies
in preventing fires is much more than offset by the fact that no homesteaders have small holdings
within the area of their operations, either to interfere with logging or to compete with their
small mills for the control of the lumber market.

That the forest lands of the nation were being denuded, and that this would cause droughts
and floods was a fact before the establishment of the Reserves, and the fact is still true.
Where a logging company operates, the rule is that it shall take all the timber on the tract
where it works, and then the forest guards are to burn the brush and refuse. A cleaner sweep
of the timber could not have been made under the old methods. The only difference in methods
is that where the forest guards now do the fire protecting for the lumber trust, the homesteaders
formerly did it for their own protection. In January, 1914, the Forestry Service issued a statement
that the policy of the Service for the Kaniksu Forest in Northern Idaho and Northeastern Washington
would be to have all that particular reserve logged off and then have the land thrown open
to settlement as homesteads. As the timber in that part of the country will but little more
than pay for the work of clearing the land ready for the plow, but is very profitable where
no clearing is required, it can be readily seen that the Forestry Service was being used as
a means of dividing the fruit--the apples to the lumber trust, the cores to the landless homeseekers.

One particular manner in which the Government protects the large lumber companies is in the
insurance against fire loss. When a tract has been awarded to a bidder it is understood that
he shall have all the timber allotted to him, and that he shall stand no loss by fire. Should
a tract of timber be burned before it can be logged, the government allots to the bidder another
tract of timber "of equal value and of equal accessibility," or an adjustment is made according
to the ease of logging and value of the timber. In this way the company has no expense for
insurance to bear, which even now with the fire protection that is given by the Forestry Service
is rated by insurance companies at about ten per cent. of the value of the timber for each year.

No taxes or interest are required on the timber that is purchased from the government. Another
feature that makes this timber cheaper than that of private holdings, is that to buy outright
would entail the expense of the first cost of the land and timber, the protection from fire,
the taxes and the interest on the investment. In addition to this there is always the possibility
that some homesteader would refuse to sell some valuable tract that was in a vital situation,
as holding the key to a large tract of timber that had no other outlet than across that tract.
There has been as yet no dispute with the government about an outlet for any timber purchased
on the Reserves; the contract for the timber always including the proviso that the logging
company shall have the right to make and use such roads as are "necessary," and the company
is the judge of what is necessary in that line.

The counties in which Reserves are situated receive no taxes from the government timber, or
from the timber that is cut from the Reserves until it is cut into lumber, but in lieu of this
they receive a sop in the form of "aid" in the construction of roads. In the aggregate this
aid looks large, but when compared with the amount of road work that the people who could make
their homes within what is now the Forest Reserves could do, it is pitifully small and very
much in the nature of the "charity" that is handed out to the poor of the cities. It is the
inevitable result of a system of government that finds itself compelled to keep watch and ward
over its imbecile children.

So in devious ways of fraud, graft, coercion, and outright theft, the bulk of the timber of
the Northwest has been acquired by the lumber trust at an average cost of less than twelve
cents a thousand feet. In the states of Washington and Oregon alone, the Northern Pacific and
the Southern Pacific railways, as allies of the Weyerhouser interests of St. Paul, own nearly
nine million acres of timber; the Weyerhouser group by itself dominating altogether more than
thirty million acres, or an area almost equal to that of the state of Wisconsin. The timber
owned by a relatively small group of individuals is sufficient to yield enough lumber to build
a six-room house for every one of the twenty million families in the United States.

Why then should conservation, or the threat of it, disturb the serenity of the lumber trust?
If the government permits the cutting of public timber it increases the value of the trust
holdings in multiplied ratio, and if the government withdraws from public entry any portion
of the public lands, creating Forest Reserves, it adds marvelously to the value of the trust
logs in the water booms. Even forest fires in one portion of these vast holdings serve but
to send skyward the values in the remaining parts, and by some strange freak of nature the
timber of trust competitors, like the "independent" and co-operative mills, seems to be more
inflammable than that of the "law-abiding" lumber trust. And so it happens that the government's
forest policy has added fabulous wealth and prestige and power to the rulers of the lumber kingdom.

But whether the timber lands were stolen illegally or acquired by methods entirely within the
law of the land, the exploitation of labor was, and is, none the less severe. The withholding
from Labor of any portion of its product in the form of profits--unpaid wages--and the private
ownership by individuals or small groups of persons, of timber lands and other forms of property
necessary to society as a whole, are principles utterly indefensible by any argument save that
of force. Such legally ordained robbery can be upheld only by armies, navies, militia, sheriffs
and deputies, police and detectives, private gunmen, and illegal mobs formed of, or created
by, the propertied classes. Alike in the stolen timber, the legally acquired timber, and in
the Government Forest Reserves, the propertyless lumberjacks are unmercifully exploited, and
any difference in the degree of exploitation does not arise because of the "humanity" of any
certain set of employers but simply because the cutting of timber in large quantities brings
about a greater productivity from each worker, generally accompanied with a decrease in wages
due to the displacement of men.

With the development of large scale logging operations there naturally came a development of
machinery in the industry. The use of water power, the horse, and sometimes the ox, gave way
to the use of the donkey engine. This grew from a crude affair, resembling an over-sized coffee
mill, to a machine with a hauling power equal to that of a small sized locomotive. Later on
came "high lead" logging and the Flying Machine, besides which the wonderful exploits of "Paul
Bunyan's old blue ox" are as nothing.

The overhead system was created as a result of the additional cost of hauling when the increased
demand for a larger output of logs forced the erection of more and more camps, each new camp
being further removed from the cities and towns. Today its use is almost universal as there
remains no timber close to the large cities, even the stumps having been removed to make room
for farming operations.

Roughly the method of operation is to leave a straight tall tree standing near the logging
track in felling timber. The machine proper is set right at the base of this tree, and about
ninety feet up its trunk a large chain is wrapped to allow the hanging of a block. From this
spar tree a cable, two inches in diameter, is stretched to another tree some distance in the
woods. On this cable is placed what is known as a bicycle or trolley. Various other lines run
back and forth thru this trolley to the engine. At the end of one of these lines an enormous
pair of hooks is suspended. These grasp the timber and convey it to the cars.

Ten to twenty thousand feet of logs a day was the output of the old bull or horse teams. The
donkey engine brought it to a point where from seventy-five to one hundred thousand could be
turned out, and the steam skidder doubled the output of the donkey. Ordinarily the crew for
one donkey engine consists of from thirteen to fifteen men, sometimes even as high as twenty-five,
but this number is reduced to nine or even lower with the introduction of the steam skidder.
Loggers claim that the high lead system kills and maims more men than the methods formerly
in vogue, but be that as it may, the fact stands out quite plainly that as compared with a
line horse donkey, operated with a crew of twenty-five men, the flying machine will produce
enough lumber to mean the displacement of one hundred men.

