AUTOBIOGRAPHY AND SELECTED ESSAYS

by

Thomas Henry Huxley

     Note: The notes at the end of the book were originally
     referenced by page number. I have instead inserted numbers
     within the text in the format [xx] and cross-referenced
     these to the appropriate notes.--D.L.

Edited, with introduction and notes by Ada L. F. Snell Associate Professor Of English Mount
Holyoke College

Riverside College Classics Copyright 1909

CONTENTS

PREFACE

INTRODUCTION

The Life of Huxley

Subject-matter, Structure, and Style of Essays

Suggested Studies

AUTOBIOGRAPHY

ON IMPROVING NATURAL KNOWLEDGE

A LIBERAL EDUCATION

ON A PIECE OF CHALK

THE PRINCIPAL SUBJECTS OF EDUCATION

THE METHOD OF SCIENTIFIC INVESTIGATION

ON THE PHYSICAL BASIS OF LIFE

ON CORAL AND CORAL REEFS

NOTES

PREFACE

The purpose of the following selections is to present to students of English a few of Huxley's
representative essays. Some of these selections are complete; others are extracts. In the latter
case, however, they are not extracts in the sense of being incomplete wholes, for each selection
given will be found to have, in Aristotle's phrase, "a beginning, a middle, and an end." That
they are complete in themselves, although only parts of whole essays, is due to the fact that
Huxley, in order to make succeeding material clear, often prepares the way with a long and
careful definition. Such is the nature of the extract A Liberal Education, in reality a definition
to make distinct and forcible his ideas on the shortcomings of English schools. Such a definition,
also, is The Method of Scientific Investigation.

The footnotes are those of the author. Other notes on the text have been included for the benefit
of schools inadequately equipped with reference books. It is hoped, however, that the notes
may be found not to be so numerous as to prevent the training of the student in a self-reliant
and scholarly use of dictionaries and reference books; it is hoped, also, that they may serve
to stimulate him to trace out for himself more completely any subject connected with the text
in which he may feel a peculiar interest. It should be recognized that notes are of value only
as they develop power to read intelligently. If unintelligently relied upon, they may even
foster indifference and lazy mental habits.

I wish to express my obligation to Miss Flora Bridges, whose careful reading of the manuscript
has been most helpful, and to Professor Clara F. Stevens, the head of the English Department
at Mount Holyoke College, whose very practical aid made this volume possible.

A. L. F. S.

INTRODUCTION

I -- THE LIFE OF HUXLEY

Of Huxley's life and of the forces which moulded his thought, the Autobiography gives some
account; but many facts which are significant are slighted, and necessarily the later events
of his life are omitted. To supplement the story as given by him is the purpose of this sketch.
The facts for this account are gathered entirely from the Life and Letters of Thomas Henry
Huxley, by his son. For a real acquaintance with Huxley, the student should consult this source
for himself; he will count the reading of the Life and Letters among the rare pleasures which
have come to him through books.

Thomas Henry Huxley was born on May 4, 1825. His autobiography gives a full account of his
parents, his early boyhood, and his education. Of formal education, Huxley had little; but
he had the richer schooling which nature and life give an eager mind. He read widely; he talked
often with older people; he was always investigating the why of things. He kept a journal in
which he noted thoughts gathered from books, and ideas on the causes of certain phenomena.
In this journal he frequently wrote what he had done and had set himself to do in the way of
increasing his knowledge. Self-conducted, also, was his later education at the Charing Cross
Hospital. Here, like Stevenson in his university days, Huxley seemed to be idle, but in reality,
he was always busy on his own private end. So constantly did he work over the microscope that
the window at which he sat came to be dubbed by his fellow students "The Sign of the Head and
Microscope." Moreover, in his regular courses at Charing Cross, he seems to have done work
sufficiently notable to be recognized by several prizes and a gold medal.

Of his life after the completion of his medical course, of his search for work, of his appointment
as assistant surgeon on board the Rattlesnake, and of his scientific work during the four years'
cruise, Huxley gives a vivid description in the autobiography. As a result of his investigations
on this voyage, he published various essays which quickly secured for him a position in the
scientific world as a naturalist of the first rank. A testimony of the value of this work was
his election to membership in the Royal Society.

Although Huxley had now, at the age of twenty-six, won distinction in science, he soon discovered
that it was not so easy to earn bread thereby. Nevertheless, to earn a living was most important
if he were to accomplish the two objects which he had in view. He wished, in the first place,
to marry Miss Henrietta Heathorn of Sydney, to whom he had become engaged when on the cruise
with the Rattlesnake; his second object was to follow science as a profession. The struggle
to find something connected with science which would pay was long and bitter; and only a resolute
determination to win kept Huxley from abandoning it altogether. Uniform ill-luck met him everywhere.
He has told in his autobiography of his troubles with the Admiralty in the endeavor to get
his papers published, and of his failure there. He applied for a position to teach science
in Toronto; being unsuccessful in this attempt, he applied successively for various professorships
in the United Kingdom, and in this he was likewise unsuccessful. Some of his friends urged
him to hold out, but others thought the fight an unequal one, and advised him to emigrate to
Australia. He himself was tempted to practice medicine in Sydney; but to give up his purpose
seemed to him like cowardice. On the other hand, to prolong the struggle indefinitely when
he might quickly earn a living in other ways seemed like selfishness and an injustice to the
woman to whom he had been for a long time engaged. Miss Heathorn, however, upheld him in his
determination to pursue science; and his sister also, he writes, cheered him by her advice
and encouragement to persist in the struggle. Something of the man's heroic temper may be gathered
from a letter which he wrote to Miss Heathorn when his affairs were darkest. "However painful
our separation may be," he says, "the spectacle of a man who had given up the cherished purpose
of his life . . . would, before long years were over our heads, be infinitely more painful."
He declares that he is hemmed in by all sorts of difficulties. "Nevertheless the path has shown
itself a fair one, neither more difficult nor less so than most paths in life in which a man
of energy may hope to do much if he believes in himself, and is at peace within." Thus relieved
in mind, he makes his decision in spite of adverse fate. "My course of life is taken, I will
not leave London--I WILL make myself a name and a position as well as an income by some kind
of pursuit connected with science which is the thing for which Nature has fitted me if she
has ever fitted any one for anything."

But suddenly the long wait, the faith in self, were justified, and the turning point came.
"There is always a Cape Horn in one's life that one either weathers or wrecks one's self on,"
he writes to his sister. "Thank God, I think I may say I have weathered mine--not without a
good deal of damage to spars and rigging though, for it blew deuced hard on the other side."
In 1854 a permanent lectureship was offered him at the Government School of Mines; also, a
lectureship at St. Thomas' Hospital; and he was asked to give various other lecture courses.
He thus found himself able to establish the home for which he had waited eight years. In July,
1855, he was married to Miss Heathorn.

The succeeding years from 1855 to 1860 were filled with various kinds of work connected with
science: original investigation, printing of monographs, and establishing of natural history
museums. His advice concerning local museums is interesting and characteristically expressed.
"It [the local museum if properly arranged] will tell both natives and strangers exactly what
they want to know, and possess great scientific interest and importance. Whereas the ordinary
lumber-room of clubs from New Zealand, Hindu idols, sharks' teeth, mangy monkeys, scorpions,
and conch shells--who shall describe the weary inutility of it? It is really worse than nothing,
because it leads the unwary to look for objects of science elsewhere than under their noses.
What they want to know is that their 'America is here,' as Wilhelm Meister has it." During
this period, also, he began his lectures to workingmen, calling them Peoples' Lectures. "POPULAR
lectures," he said, "I hold to be an abomination unto the Lord." Working-men attended these
lectures in great numbers, and to them Huxley seemed to be always able to speak at his best.
His purpose in giving these lectures should be expressed in his own words: "I want the working
class to understand that Science and her ways are great facts for them--that physical virtue
is the base of all other, and that they are to be clean and temperate and all the rest--not
because fellows in black and white ties tell them so, but because there are plain and patent
laws which they must obey 'under penalties.'"

Toward the close of 1859, Darwin's "Origin of Species" was published. It raised a great outcry
in England; and Huxley immediately came forward as chief defender of the faith therein set
forth. He took part in debates on this subject, the most famous of which was the one between
himself and Bishop Wilberforce at Oxford. The Bishop concluded his speech by turning to Huxley
and asking, "Was it through his grandfather or grandmother that he claimed descent from a monkey?"
Huxley, as is reported by an eye-witness, "slowly and deliberately arose. A slight tall figure,
stern and pale, very quiet and grave, he stood before us and spoke those tremendous words.
. . . He was not ashamed to have a monkey for an ancestor; but he would be ashamed to be connected
with a man who used great gifts to obscure the truth." Another story indicates the temper of
that time. Carlyle, whose writing had strongly influenced Huxley, and whom Huxley had come
to know, could not forgive him for his attitude toward evolution. One day, years after the
publication of Man's Place in Nature, Huxley, seeing Carlyle on the other side of the street,
a broken, pathetic figure, walked over and spoke to him. The old man merely remarked, "You're
Huxley, aren't you? the man that says we are all descended from monkeys," and passed on. Huxley,
however, saw nothing degrading to man's dignity in the theory of evolution. In a wonderfully
fine sentence he gives his own estimate of the theory as it affects man's future on earth.
"Thoughtful men once escaped from the blinding influences of traditional prejudices, will find
in the lowly stock whence man has sprung the best evidence of the splendour of his capacities;
and will discover, in his long progress through the past, a reasonable ground of faith in his
attainment of a nobler future." As a result of all these controversies on The Origin of Species
and of investigations to uphold Darwin's theory, Huxley wrote his first book, already mentioned,
Man's Place in Nature.

To read a list of the various kinds of work which Huxley was doing from 1870 to 1875 is to
be convinced of his abundant energy and many interests. At about this time Huxley executed
the plan which he had had in mind for a long time, the establishment of laboratories for the
use of students. His object was to furnish a more exact preliminary training. He complains
that the student who enters the medical school is "so habituated to learn only from books,
or oral teaching, that the attempt to learn from things and to get his knowledge at first hand
is something new and strange." To make this method of teaching successful in the schools, Huxley
gave practical instruction in laboratory work to school-masters.

"If I am to be remembered at all," Huxley once wrote, "I would rather it should be as a man
who did his best to help the people than by any other title." Certainly as much of his time
as could be spared from his regular work was given to help others. His lectures to workingmen
and school-masters have already been mentioned. In addition, he lectured to women on physiology
and to children on elementary science. In order to be of greater service to the children, Huxley,
in spite of delicate health, became a member of the London School Board. His immediate object
was "to temper book-learning with something of the direct knowledge of Nature." His other purposes
were to secure a better physical training for children and to give them a clearer understanding
of social and moral law. He did not believe, on the one hand, in overcrowding the curriculum,
but, on the other hand, he "felt that all education should be thrown open to all that each
man might know to what state in life he was called." Another statement of his purpose and beliefs
is given by Professor Gladstone, who says of his work on the board: "He resented the idea that
schools were to train either congregations for churches or hands for factories. He was on the
Board as a friend of children. What he sought to do for the child was for the child's sake,
that it might live a fuller, truer, worthier life."

The immense amount of work which Huxley did in these years told very seriously on his naturally
weak constitution. It became necessary for him finally for two successive years to stop work
altogether. In 1872 he went to the Mediterranean and to Egypt. This was a holiday full of interest
for a man like Huxley who looked upon the history of the world and man's place in the world
with a keen scientific mind. Added to this scientific bent of mind, moreover, Huxley had a
deep appreciation for the picturesque in nature and life. Bits of description indicate his
enjoyment in this vacation. He writes of his entrance to the Mediterranean, "It was a lovely
morning, and nothing could be grander than Ape Hill on one side and the Rock on the other,
looking like great lions or sphinxes on each side of a gateway." In Cairo, Huxley found much
to interest him in archaeology, geology, and the every-day life of the streets. At the end
of a month, he writes that he is very well and very grateful to Old Nile for all that he has
done for him, not the least "for a whole universe of new thoughts and pictures of life." The
trip, however, did no lasting good. In 1873 Huxley was again very ill, but was under such heavy
costs at this time that another vacation was impossible. At this moment, a critical one in
his life, some of his close scientific friends placed to his credit twenty-one hundred pounds
to enable him to take the much needed rest. Darwin wrote to Huxley concerning the gift: "In
doing this we are convinced that we act for the public interest." He assured Huxley that the
friends who gave this felt toward him as a brother. "I am sure that you will return this feeling
and will therefore be glad to give us the opportunity of aiding you in some degree, as this
will be a happiness to us to the last day of our lives." The gift made it possible for Huxley
to take another long vacation, part of which was spent with Sir Joseph Hooker, a noted English
botanist, visiting the volcanoes of Auvergne. After this trip he steadily improved in health,
with no other serious illness for ten years.

In 1876 Huxley was invited to visit America and to deliver the inaugural address at Johns Hopkins
University. In July of this year accordingly, in company with his wife, he crossed to New York.
Everywhere Huxley was received with enthusiasm, for his name was a very familiar one. Two quotations
from his address at Johns Hopkins are especially worthy of attention as a part of his message
to Americans. "It has been my fate to see great educational funds fossilise into mere bricks
and mortar in the petrifying springs of architecture, with nothing left to work them. A great
warrior is said to have made a desert and called it peace. Trustees have sometimes made a palace
and called it a university."

The second quotation is as follows:--

I cannot say that I am in the slightest degree impressed by your bigness or your material resources,
as such. Size is not grandeur, territory does not make a nation. The great issue, about which
hangs true sublimity, and the terror of overhanging fate, is, what are you going to do with
all these things? . . .

The one condition of success, your sole safeguard, is the moral worth and intellectual clearness
of the individual citizen. Education cannot give these, but it can cherish them and bring them
to the front in whatever station of society they are to be found, and the universities ought
to be, and may be, the fortresses of the higher life of the nation.

After the return from America, the same innumerable occupations were continued. It would be
impossible in short space even to enumerate all Huxley's various publications of the next ten
years. His work, however, changed gradually from scientific investigation to administrative
work, not the least important of which was the office of Inspector of Fisheries. A second important
office was the Presidency of the Royal Society. Of the work of this society Sir Joseph Hooker
writes: "The duties of the office are manifold and heavy; they include attendance at all the
meetings of the Fellows, and of the councils, committees, and sub-committees of the Society,
and especially the supervision of the printing and illustrating all papers on biological subjects
that are published in the Society's Transactions and Proceedings; the latter often involving
a protracted correspondence with the authors. To this must be added a share in the supervision
of the staff officers, of the library and correspondence, and the details of house-keeping."
All the work connected with this and many other offices bespeaks a life too hard-driven and
accounts fully for the continued ill-health which finally resulted in a complete break-down.

Huxley had always advocated that the age of sixty was the time for "official death," and had
looked forward to a peaceful "Indian summer." With this object in mind and troubled by increasing
ill-health, he began in 1885 to give up his work. But to live even in comparative idleness,
after so many years of activity, was difficult. "I am sure," he says, "that the habit of incessant
work into which we all drift is as bad in its way as dram-drinking. In time you cannot be comfortable
without stimulus." But continued bodily weakness told upon him to the extent that all work
became distasteful. An utter weariness with frequent spells of the blues took possession of
him; and the story of his life for some years is the story of the long pursuit of health in
England, Switzerland, and especially in Italy.

Although Huxley was wretchedly ill during this period, he wrote letters which are good to read
for their humor and for their pictures of foreign cities. Rome he writes of as an idle, afternoony
sort of place from which it is difficult to depart. He worked as eagerly over the historic
remains in Rome as he would over a collection of geological specimens. "I begin to understand
Old Rome pretty well and I am quite learned in the Catacombs, which suit me, as a kind of Christian
fossils out of which one can reconstruct the body of the primitive Church." Florence, for a
man with a conscience and ill-health, had too many picture galleries. "They are a sore burden
to the conscience if you don't go to see them, and an awful trial to the back and legs if you
do," he complained. He found Florence, nevertheless, a lovely place and full of most interesting
things to see and do. His letters with reference to himself also are vigorously and entertainingly
expressed. He writes in a characteristic way of his growing difficulty with his hearing. "It
irritates me not to hear; it irritates me still more to be spoken to as if I were deaf, and
the absurdity of being irritated on the last ground irritates me still more." And again he
writes in a more hopeful strain, "With fresh air and exercise and careful avoidance of cold
and night air I am to be all right again." He then adds: "I am not fond of coddling; but as
Paddy gave his pig the best corner in his cabin--because 'shure, he paid the rint'--I feel
bound to take care of myself as a household animal of value, to say nothing of other points."

Although he was never strong after this long illness, Huxley began in 1889 to be much better.
The first sign of returning vigor was the eagerness with which he entered into a controversy
with Gladstone. Huxley had always enjoyed a mental battle; and some of his fiercest tilts were
with Gladstone. He even found the cause of better health in this controversy, and was grateful
to the "Grand Old Man" for making home happy for him. From this time to his death, Huxley wrote
a number of articles on politics, science, and religion, many of which were published in the
volume called Controverted Questions. The main value of these essays lies in the fact that
Huxley calls upon men to give clear reasons for the faith which they claim as theirs, and makes,
as a friend wrote of him, hazy thinking and slovenly, half-formed conclusions seem the base
thing they really are.

The last years of Huxley's life were indeed the longed-for Indian summer. Away from the noise
of London at Eastbourne by the sea, he spent many happy hours with old-time friends and in
his garden, which was a great joy to him. His large family of sons and daughters and grandchildren
brought much cheer to his last days. Almost to the end he was working and writing for publication.
Three days before his death he wrote to his old friend, Hooker, that he didn't feel at all
like "sending in his checks" and hoped to recover. He died very quietly on June 29, 1895. That
he met death with the same calm faith and strength with which he had met life is indicated
by the lines which his wife wrote and which he requested to be his epitaph:--

Be not afraid, ye waiting hearts that weep; For still He giveth His beloved sleep, And if an
endless sleep He wills, so best.

To attempt an analysis of Huxley's character, unique and bafflingly complex as it is, is beyond
the scope of this sketch; but to give only the mere facts of his life is to do an injustice
to the vivid personality of the man as it is revealed in his letters. All his human interest
in people and things--pets, and flowers, and family--brightens many pages of the two ponderous
volumes. Now one reads of his grief over some backward-going plant, or over some garden tragedy,
as "A lovely clematis in full flower, which I had spent hours in nailing up, has just died
suddenly. I am more inconsolable than Jonah!" Now one is amused with a nonsense letter to one
of his children, and again with an account of a pet. "I wish you would write seriously to M----.
She is not behaving well to Oliver. I have seen handsomer kittens, but few more lively, and
energetically destructive. Just now he scratched away at something M---- says cost 13s. 6d.
a yard and reduced more or less of it to combings. M---- therefore excludes him from the dining-room
and all those opportunities of higher education which he would have in MY house." Frequently
one finds a description of some event, so vividly done that the mere reading of it seems like
a real experience. An account of Tennyson's burial in Westminster is a typical bit of description:--

Bright sunshine streamed through the windows of the nave, while the choir was in half gloom,
and as each shaft of light illuminated the flower-covered bier as it slowly travelled on, one
thought of the bright succession of his works between the darkness before and the darkness
after. I am glad to say that the Royal Society was represented by four of its chief officers,
and nine of the commonalty, including myself. Tennyson has a right to that, as the first poet
since Lucretius who has understood the drift of science.

No parts of the Life and Letters are more enjoyable than those concerning the "Happy Family,"
as a friend of Huxley's names his household. His family of seven children found their father
a most engaging friend and companion. He could tell them wonderful sea stories and animal stories
and could draw fascinating pictures. His son writes of how when he was ill with scarlet fever
he used to look forward to his father's home-coming. "The solitary days--for I was the first
victim in the family--were very long, and I looked forward with intense interest to one half-hour
after dinner, when he would come up and draw scenes from the history of a remarkable bull-terrier
and his family that went to the seaside in a most human and child-delighting manner. I have
seldom suffered a greater disappointment than when, one evening, I fell asleep just before
this fairy half-hour, and lost it out of my life."

The account of the comradeship between Huxley and his wife reads like a good old-time romance.
He was attracted to her at first by her "simplicity and directness united with an unusual degree
of cultivation," Huxley's son writes. On her he depended for advice in his work, and for companionship
at home and abroad when wandering in search of health in Italy and Switzerland. When he had
been separated from her for some time, he wrote, "Nobody, children or anyone else, can be to
me what you are. Ulysses preferred his old woman to immortality, and this absence has led me
to see that he was as wise in that as in other things." Again he writes, "Against all trouble
(and I have had my share) I weigh a wife-comrade 'trew and fest' in all emergencies."

The letters also give one a clear idea of the breadth of Huxley's interests, particularly of
his appreciation of the various forms of art. Huxley believed strongly in the arts as a refining
and helpful influence in education. He keenly enjoyed good music. Professor Hewes writes of
him that one breaking in upon him in the afternoon at South Kensington would not infrequently
be met "with a snatch of some melody of Bach's fugue." He also liked good pictures, and always
had among his friends well-known artists, as Alma-Tadema, Sir Frederick Leighton, and Burne-Jones.
He read poetry widely, and strongly advocated the teaching of poetry in English schools. As
to poetry, his own preferences are interesting. Wordsworth he considered too discursive; Shelley
was too diffuse; Keats, he liked for pure beauty, Browning for strength, and Tennyson for his
understanding of modern science; but most frequently of all he read Milton and Shakespeare.

As to Huxley's appearance, and as to the impression which his personality made upon others,
the description of a friend, Mr. G. W. Smalley, presents him with striking force. "The square
forehead, the square jaw, the tense lines of the mouth, the deep flashing dark eyes, the impression
of something more than strength he gave you, an impression of sincerity, of solid force, of
immovability, yet with the gentleness arising from the serene consciousness of his strength--all
this belonged to Huxley and to him alone. The first glance magnetized his audience. The eyes
were those of one accustomed to command, of one having authority, and not fearing on occasion
to use it. The hair swept carelessly away from the broad forehead and grew rather long behind,
yet the length did not suggest, as it often does, effeminacy. He was masculine in everything--look,
gesture, speech. Sparing of gesture, sparing of emphasis, careless of mere rhetorical or oratorical
art, he had nevertheless the secret of the highest art of all, whether in oratory or whatever
else--he had simplicity."

Simplicity, directness, sincerity,--all these qualities describe Huxley; but the one attribute
which distinguishes him above all others is love of truth. A love of truth, as the phrase characterizes
Huxley, would necessarily produce a scholarly habit of mind. It was the zealous search for
truth which determined his method of work. In science, Huxley would "take at second hand nothing
for which he vouched in teaching." Some one reproached him for wasting time verifying what
another had already done. "If that is his practice," he commented, "his work will never live."
The same motive made him a master of languages. To be able to read at first hand the writings
of other nations, he learned German, French, Italian, and Greek. One of the chief reasons for
learning to read Greek was to see for himself if Aristotle really did say that the heart had
only three chambers--an error, he discovered, not of Aristotle, but of the translator. It was,
moreover, the scholar in Huxley which made him impatient of narrow, half-formed, foggy conclusions.
His own work has all the breadth and freedom and universality of the scholar, but it has, also,
a quality equally distinctive of the scholar, namely, an infinite precision in the matter of
detail.

If love of truth made Huxley a scholar, it made him, also, a courageous fighter. Man's first
duty, as he saw it, was to seek the truth; his second was to teach it to others, and, if necessary,
to contend valiantly for it. To fail to teach what you honestly know to be true, because it
may harm your reputation, or even because it may give pain to others, is cowardice. "I am not
greatly concerned about any reputation," Huxley writes to his wife, "except that of being entirely
honest and straightforward." Regardless of warnings that the publication of Man's Place in
Nature would ruin his career, Huxley passed on to others what nature had revealed to him. He
was regardless, also, of the confusion and pain which his view would necessarily bring to those
who had been nourished in old traditions. To stand with a man or two and to do battle with
the world on the score of its old beliefs, has never been an easy task since the world began.
Certainly it required fearlessness and determination to wrestle with the prejudices against
science in the middle of the nineteenth century--how much may be gathered from the reading
of Darwin's Life and Letters. The attitude of the times toward science has already been indicated.
One may be allowed to give one more example from the reported address of a clergyman. "O ye
men of science, ye men of science, leave us our ancestors in paradise, and you may have yours
in Zoological gardens." The war was, for the most part, between the clergy and the men of science,
but it is necessary to remember that Huxley fought not against Christianity, but against dogma;
that he fought not against the past,--he had great reverence for the accomplishment of the
past,--but against unwillingness to accept the new truth of the present.

A scholar of the highest type and a fearless defender of true and honest thinking, Huxley certainly
was: but the quality which gives meaning to his work, which makes it live, is a certain human
quality due to the fact that Huxley was always keenly alive to the relation of science to the
problems of life. For this reason, he was not content with the mere acquirement of knowledge;
and for this reason, also, he could not quietly wait until the world should come to his way
of thinking. Much of the time, therefore, which he would otherwise naturally have spent in
research, he spent in contending for and in endeavoring to popularize the facts of science.
It was this desire to make his ideas prevail that led Huxley to work for a mastery of the technique
of speaking and writing. He hated both, but taught himself to do both well. The end of all
his infinite pains about his writing was not because style for its own sake is worth while,
but because he saw that the only way to win men to a consideration of his message was to make
it perfectly clear and attractive to them. Huxley's message to the people was that happiness,
usefulness, and even material prosperity depend upon an understanding of the laws of nature.
He also taught that a knowledge of the facts of science is the soundest basis for moral law;
that a clear sense of the penalties which Nature inflicts for disobedience of her laws must
eventually be the greatest force for the purification of life. If he was to be remembered,
therefore, he desired that he should be remembered primarily as one who had helped the people
"to think truly and to live rightly." Huxley's writing is, then, something more than a scholarly
exposition of abstruse matter; for it has been further devoted to the increasing of man's capacity
for usefulness, and to the betterment of his life here on earth.

II -- SUBJECT-MATTER, STRUCTURE, AND STYLE

From the point of view of subject-matter, structure, and style, Huxley's essays are admirably
adapted to the uses of the student in English. The themes of the essays are two, education
and science. In these two subjects Huxley earnestly sought to arouse interest and to impart
knowledge, because he believed that intelligence in these matters is essential for the advancement
of the race in strength and morality. Both subjects, therefore, should be valuable to the student.
In education, certainly, he should be interested, since it is his main occupation, if not his
chief concern. Essays like A Liberal Education and The Principal Subjects of Education may
suggest to him the meaning of all his work, and may suggest, also, the things which it would
be well for him to know; and, even more, a consideration of these subjects may arouse him to
a greater interest and responsibility than he usually assumes toward his own mental equipment.
Of greater interest probably will be the subjects which deal with nature; for the ways of nature
are more nearly within the range of his real concerns than are the wherefores of study. The
story of the formation of a piece of chalk, the substance which lies at the basis of all life,
the habits of sea animals, are all subjects the nature of which is akin to his own eager interest
in the world.

Undoubtedly the subjects about which Huxley writes will "appeal" to the student; but it is
in analysis that the real discipline lies. For analysis Huxley's essays are excellent. They
illustrate "the clear power of exposition," and such power is, as Huxley wrote to Tyndall,
the one quality the people want,--exposition "so clear that they may think they understand
even if they don't." Huxley obtains that perfect clearness in his own work by simple definition,
by keeping steadily before his audience his intention, and by making plain throughout his lecture
a well-defined organic structure. No X-ray machine is needful to make the skeleton visible;
it stands forth with the parts all nicely related and compactly joined. In reference to structure,
his son and biographer writes, "He loved to visualize his object clearly. The framework of
what he wished to say would always be drawn out first." Professor Ray Lankester also mentions
Huxley's love of form. "He deals with form not only as a mechanical engineer IN PARTIBUS (Huxley's
own description of himself), but also as an artist, a born lover of form, a character which
others recognize in him though he does not himself set it down in his analysis." Huxley's own
account of his efforts to shape his work is suggestive. "The fact is that I have a great love
and respect for my native tongue, and take great pains to use it properly. Sometimes I write
essays half-a-dozen times before I can get them into proper shape; and I believe I become more
fastidious as I grow older." And, indeed, there is a marked difference in firmness of structure
between the earlier essays, such as On the Educational Value of the Natural History Sciences,
written, as Huxley acknowledges, in great haste, and the later essays, such as A Liberal Education
and The Method of Scientific Investigation. To trace and to define this difference will be
most helpful to the student who is building up a knowledge of structure for his own use.

According to Huxley's biographer in the Life and Letters of Thomas Henry Huxley, the essays
which represent him at his best are those published in 1868. They are A Piece of Chalk, A Liberal
Education, and On the Physical Basis of Life. In connection with the comment on these essays
is the following quotation which gives one interesting information as to Huxley's method of
obtaining a clear style:--

This lecture on A Piece of Chalk together with two others delivered this year, seems to me
to mark the maturing of his style into that mastery of clear expression for which he deliberately
labored, the saying exactly what he meant, neither too much nor too little, without confusion
and without obscurity. Have something to say, and say it, was the Duke of Wellington's theory
of style; Huxley's was to say that which has to be said in such language that you can stand
cross-examination on each word. Be clear, though you may be convicted of error. If you are
clearly wrong, you will run up against a fact sometime and get set right. If you shuffle with
your subject, and study chiefly to use language which will give a loophole of escape either
way, there is no hope for you.

This was the secret of his lucidity. In no one could Buffon's aphorism on style find a better
illustration, Le style c'est l'homme meme. In him science and literature, too often divorced,
were closely united; and literature owes him a debt for importing into it so much of the highest
scientific habit of mind; for showing that truthfulness need not be bald, and that real power
lies more in exact accuracy than in luxuriance of diction.

Huxley's own theory as to how clearness is to be obtained gets at the root of the matter. "For
my part, I venture to doubt the wisdom of attempting to mould one's style by any other process
than that of striving after the clear and forcible expression of definite conceptions; in which
process the Glassian precept, first catch your definite conception, is probably the most difficult
to obey."

Perfect clearness, above every other quality of style, certainly is characteristic of Huxley;
but clearness alone does not make subject-matter literature. In addition to this quality, Huxley's
writing wins the reader by the racy diction, the homely illustration, the plain, honest phrasing.
All these and other qualities bring one into an intimate relationship with his subject. A man
of vast technical learning, he is still so interested in the relation of his facts to the problems
of men that he is always able to infuse life into the driest of subjects, in other words, to
HUMANIZE his knowledge; and in the estimation of Matthew Arnold, this is the true work of the
scholar, the highest mission of style.

III -- SUGGESTED STUDIES IN SUBJECT-MATTER, STRUCTURE, AND STYLE

Although fully realizing that the questions here given are only such as are generally used
everywhere by instructors in English, the editor has, nevertheless, included them with the
hope that some one may find them helpful.

The studies given include a few general questions and suggestions on subject-matter, structure,
and style. The questions on structure are based on an analysis of the whole composition and
of the paragraph; those on style are based on a study of sentences and words. Such a division
of material may seem unwarranted; for, it may be urged, firmness of structure depends, to a
certain extent, upon sentence-form and words; and clearness of style, to a large extent, upon
the form of the paragraph and whole composition. The two, certainly, cannot be in justice separated;
and especially is it true, more deeply true than the average student can be brought to believe,
that structure, "MIND, in style" as Pater phrases it, primarily determines not only clearness,
but also such qualities of style as reserve, refinement, and simple Doric beauty. Since, however,
structure is more obviously associated with the larger groups, and style with the smaller,
the questions have been arranged according to this division.

I. Suggestions for the Study of Subject-Matter.

1. To whom does Huxley address the essay?

2. Can you see any adaptation of his material to his audience?

3. How would A Piece of Chalk be differently presented if given before a science club?

4. Does Huxley make his subject interesting? If so, how does he accomplish this?

5. Is the personality of Huxley suggested by the essays? See Life and Letters, vol. ii, p. 293.

II. Suggestions for the Study of Structure.

A. Analysis of the whole composition.

1. State in one complete sentence the theme of the essay.

2. Analyze the essay for the logical development of the thought.

a. Questions on the Introduction.

In the introduction, how does the author approach his material?

Does he give the main points of the essay?

Does he give his reasons for writing?

Does he narrow his subject to one point of view?

Is the introduction a digression?

b. Questions on the Body.

Can you find large groups of thought?

Are these groups closely related to the theme and to each other?

Do you find any digressions?

Is the method used in developing the groups inductive or deductive?

Is the method different in different groups?

Are the groups arranged for good emphasis in the whole composition?

c. Questions on the Conclusion.

How does the author conclude the essay?

Does the conclusion sum up the points of the essay?

Are any new points suggested?

Is the thought of the whole essay stated?

Do you consider it a strong conclusion?

3. Make out an outline which shall picture the skeleton of the essay studied. In making the
outline express the topics in the form of complete statements, phrase the thought for clear
sequence, and be careful about such matters as spacing and punctuation.

B. Analysis of paragraph structure.

1. Can a paragraph be analyzed in the same manner as the whole composition?

2. Can you express the thought of each paragraph in a complete sentence?

3. Can you find different points presented in the paragraph developing the paragraph topic,
as the large groups of the whole composition develop the theme?

4. Are the paragraphs closely related, and how are they bound together?

5. Can any of the paragraphs be combined to advantage?

6. Read from Barrett Wendell's English Composition the chapter on paragraphs. Are Huxley's
paragraphs constructed in accordance with the principles given in this chapter?

7. Is the paragraph type varied? For paragraph types, see Scott and Denny's Paragraph Writing.

C. Comparative study of the structure of the essay.

1. Do you find any difference between Huxley's earlier and later essays as regards the structure
of the whole, or the structure of the paragraph?

2. Which essay seems to you to be most successful in structure?

3. Has the character of the audience any influence upon the structure of the essays?

4. Compare the structure of one of Huxley's essays with that of some other essay recently studied.

5. Has the nature of the material any influence upon the structure of the essay?

III. Suggestions for the Study of Style.

A. Exactly what do you mean by style?

B. Questions on sentence structure.

1. From any given essay, group together sentences which are long, short, loose, periodic, balanced,
simple, compound; note those peculiar, for any reason, to Huxley.

2. Stevenson says, "The one rule is to be infinitely various; to interest, to disappoint, to
surprise and still to gratify; to be ever changing, as it were, the stitch, and yet still to
give the effect of ingenious neatness."

Do Huxley's sentences conform to Stevenson's rule? Compare Huxley's sentences with Stevenson's
for variety in form. Is there any reason for the difference between the form of the two writers?

3. Does this quotation from Pater's essay on Style describe Huxley's sentences? "The blithe,
crisp sentence, decisive as a child's expression of its needs, may alternate with the long-contending,
victoriously intricate sentence; the sentence, born with the integrity of a single word, relieving
the sort of sentence in which, if you look closely, you can see contrivance, much adjustment,
to bring a highly qualified matter into compass at one view."

4. How do Huxley's sentences compare with those of Ruskin, or with those of any author recently
studied?

5. Are Huxley's sentences musical? How does an author make his sentences musical?

C. Questions on words.

1. Do you find evidence of exactness, a quality which Huxley said he labored for?

2. Are the words general or specific in character?

3. How does Huxley make his subject-matter attractive?

4. From what sources does Huxley derive his words? Are they every-day words, or more scholarly
in character?

5. Do you find any figures? Are these mainly ornamental or do they re-enforce the thought?

8. Are there many allusions and quotations? Can you easily recognize the source?

7. Pater says in his essay on Style that the literary artist "begets a vocabulary faithful
to the colouring of his own spirit, and in the strictest sense original." Do you find that
Huxley's vocabulary suggests the man?

8. Does Huxley seem to search for "the smooth, or winsome, or forcible word, as such, or quite
simply and honestly, for the word's adjustment to its meaning"?

9. Make out a list of the words and proper names in any given essay which are not familiar
to you; write out the explanation of these in the form of notes giving any information which
is interesting and relevant.

D. General questions on style.

1. How is Huxley's style adapted to the subject-matter?

2. Can you explain the difference in style of the different essays by the difference in purpose?

3. Compare Huxley's way of saying things with some other author's way of saying things.

4. Huxley says of his essays to workingmen, "I only wish I had had the sense to anticipate
the run these have had here and abroad, and I would have revised them properly. As they stand
they are terribly in the rough, from a literary point of view."

Do you find evidences of roughness?

THOMAS HENRY HUXLEY -- AUTOBIOGRAPHY [1]

And when I consider, in one view, the many things . . . which I have upon my hands, I feel
the burlesque of being employed in this manner at my time of life. But, in another view, and
taking in all circumstances, these things, as trifling as they may appear, no less than things
of greater importance, seem to be put upon me to do.--Bishop Butler to the Duchess of Somerset.

The "many things" to which the Duchess's correspondent here refers are the repairs and improvements
of the episcopal seat at Auckland. I doubt if the great apologist, greater in nothing than
in the simple dignity of his character, would have considered the writing an account of himself
as a thing which could be put upon him to do whatever circumstances might be taken in. But
the good bishop lived in an age when a man might write books and yet be permitted to keep his
private existence to himself; in the pre-Boswellian [2] epoch, when the germ of the photographer
lay concealed in the distant future, and the interviewer who pervades our age was an unforeseen,
indeed unimaginable, birth of time.

At present, the most convinced believer in the aphorism "Bene qui latuit, bene vixit,"[3] is
not always able to act up to it. An importunate person informs him that his portrait is about
to be published and will be accompanied by a biography which the importunate person proposes
to write. The sufferer knows what that means; either he undertakes to revise the "biography"
or he does not. In the former case, he makes himself responsible; in the latter, he allows
the publication of a mass of more or less fulsome inaccuracies for which he will be held responsible
by those who are familiar with the prevalent art of self-advertisement. On the whole, it may
be better to get over the "burlesque of being employed in this manner" and do the thing himself.

It was by reflections of this kind that, some years ago, I was led to write and permit the
publication of the subjoined sketch.

Within a few yards of the very spot [20] on which we are assembled, so the tradition runs,
that painful and deadly malady, the plague, appeared in the latter months of 1664; and, though
no new visitor, smote the people of England, and especially of her capital, with a violence
unknown before, in the course of the following year. The hand of a master has pictured what
happened in those dismal months; and in that truest of fictions, The History of the Plague
Year, Defoe [21] shows death, with every accompaniment of pain and terror, stalking through
the narrow streets of old London, and changing their busy hum into a silence broken only by
the wailing of the mourners of fifty thousand dead; by the woeful denunciations and mad prayers
of fanatics; and by the madder yells of despairing profligates.

But, about this time in 1666, the death-rate had sunk to nearly its ordinary amount; a case
of plague occurred only here and there, and the richer citizens who had flown from the pest
had returned to their dwellings. The remnant of the people began to toil at the accustomed
round of duty, or of pleasure; and the stream of city life bid fair to flow back along its
old bed, with renewed and uninterrupted vigour.

The newly kindled hope was deceitful. The great plague, indeed, returned no more; but what
it had done for the Londoners, the great fire, which broke out in the autumn of 1666, did for
London; and, in September of that year, a heap of ashes and the indestructible energy of the
people were all that remained of the glory of five-sixths of the city within the walls.

Our forefathers had their own ways of accounting for each of these calamities. They submitted
to the plague in humility and in penitence, for they believed it to be the judgment of God.
But, towards the fire they were furiously indignant, interpreting it as the effect of the malice
of man,--as the work of the Republicans, or of the Papists, according as their prepossessions
ran in favour of loyalty or of Puritanism.

It would, I fancy, have fared but ill with one who, standing where I now stand, in what was
then a thickly peopled and fashionable part of London, should have broached to our ancestors
the doctrine which I now propound to you--that all their hypotheses were alike wrong; that
the plague was no more, in their sense, Divine judgment, than the fire was the work of any
political, or of any religious sect; but that they were themselves the authors of both plague
and fire, and that they must look to themselves to prevent the recurrence of calamities, to
all appearance so peculiarly beyond the reach of human control--so evidently the result of
the wrath of God, or of the craft and subtlety of an enemy.

And one may picture to one's self how harmoniously the holy cursing of the Puritan of that
day would have chimed in with the unholy cursing and the crackling wit of the Rochesters and
Sedleys,[22] and with the revilings of the political fanatics, if my imaginary plain dealer
had gone on to say that, if the return of such misfortunes were ever rendered impossible, it
would not be in virtue of the victory of the faith of Laud,[23] or of that of Milton; and,
as little, by the triumph of republicanism, as by that of monarchy. But that the one thing
needful for compassing this end was, that the people of England should second the efforts of
an insignificant corporation, the establishment of which, a few years before the epoch of the
great plague and the great fire, had been as little noticed, as they were conspicuous.

Some twenty years before the outbreak of the plague a few calm and thoughtful students banded
themselves together for the purpose, as they phrased it, of "improving natural knowledge."
The ends they proposed to attain cannot be stated more clearly than in the words of one of
the founders of the organisation:--

"Our business was (precluding matters of theology and state affairs) to discourse and consider
of philosophical enquiries, and such as related thereunto:--as Physick, Anatomy, Geometry,
Astronomy, Navigation, Staticks, Magneticks, Chymicks, Mechanicks, and Natural Experiments;
with the state of these studies and their cultivation at home and abroad. We then discoursed
of the circulation of the blood, the valves in the veins, the venae lacteae, the lymphatic
vessels, the Copernican hypothesis, the nature of comets and new stars, the satellites of Jupiter,
the oval shape (as it then appeared) of Saturn, the spots on the sun and its turning on its
own axis, the inequalities and selenography [24] of the moon, the several phases of Venus and
Mercury, the improvement of telescopes and grinding of glasses for that purpose, the weight
of air, the possibility or impossibility of vacuities and nature's abhorrence thereof, the
Torricellian experiment [25] in quicksilver, the descent of heavy bodies and the degree of
acceleration therein, with divers other things of like nature, some of which were then but
new discoveries, and others not so generally known and embraced as now they are; with other
things appertaining to what hath been called the New Philosophy, which from the times of Galileo
at Florence, and Sir Francis Bacon [26] (Lord Verulam) in England, hath been much cultivated
in Italy, France, Germany, and other parts abroad, as well as with us in England."

The learned Dr. Wallis,[27] writing in 1696, narrates in these words, what happened half a
century before, or about 1645. The associates met at Oxford, in the rooms of Dr. Wilkins, who
was destined to become a bishop; and subsequently coming together in London, they attracted
the notice of the king. And it is a strange evidence of the taste for knowledge which the most
obviously worthless of the Stuarts shared with his father and grandfather, that Charles the
Second was not content with saying witty things about his philosophers, but did wise things
with regard to them. For he not only bestowed upon them such attention as he could spare from
his poodles and his mistresses, but, being in his usual state of impecuniosity, begged for
them of the Duke of Ormond; and, that step being without effect, gave them Chelsea College,
a charter, and a mace: crowning his favours in the best way they could be crowned, by burdening
them no further with royal patronage or state interference.

Thus it was that the half-dozen young men, studious of the "New Philosophy," [28] who met in
one another's lodgings in Oxford or in London, in the middle of the seventeenth century, grew
in numerical and in real strength, until, in its latter part, the "Royal Society for the Improvement
of Natural Knowledge" had already become famous, and had acquired a claim upon the veneration
of Englishmen, which it has ever since retained, as the principal focus of scientific activity
in our islands, and the chief champion of the cause it was formed to support.

It was by the aid of the Royal Society [29] that Newton [30] published his Principia. If all
the books in the world, except the Philosophical Transactions, [31] were destroyed, it is safe
to say that the foundations of physical science would remain unshaken, and that the vast intellectual
progress of the last two centuries would be largely, though incompletely, recorded. Nor have
any signs of halting or of decrepitude manifested themselves in our own times. As in Dr. Wallis's
days, so in these, "our business is, precluding theology and state affairs, to discourse and
consider of philosophical enquiries." But our "Mathematick" is one which Newton would have
to go to school to learn; our "Staticks, Mechanicks, Magneticks, Chymicks, and Natural Experiments"
constitute a mass of physical and chemical knowledge, a glimpse at which would compensate Galileo
[32] for the doings of a score of inquisitorial cardinals; our "Physick" and "Anatomy" have
embraced such infinite varieties of beings, have laid open such new worlds in time and space,
have grappled, not unsuccessfully, with such complex problems, that the eyes of Vesalius [33]
and of Harvey [34] might be dazzled by the sight of the tree that has grown out of their grain
of mustard seed.

The fact is perhaps rather too much, than too little, forced upon one's notice, nowadays, that
all this marvellous intellectual growth has a no less wonderful expression in practical life;
and that, in this respect, if in no other, the movement symbolised by the progress of the Royal
Society stands without a parallel in the history of mankind.

A series of volumes as bulky as the "Transactions of the Royal Society" might possibly be filled
with the subtle speculations [35] of the Schoolmen;[36] not improbably, the obtaining a mastery
over the products of mediaeval thought might necessitate an even greater expenditure of time
and of energy than the acquirement of the "New Philosophy"; but though such work engrossed
the best intellects of Europe for a longer time than has elapsed since the great fire, its
effects were "writ in water,"[37] so far as our social state is concerned.

On the other hand, if the noble first President of the Royal Society could revisit the upper
air and once more gladden his eyes with a sight of the familiar mace, he would find himself
in the midst of a material civilisation more different from that of his day, than that of the
seventeenth was from that of the first century. And if Lord Brouncker's [38] native sagacity
had not deserted his ghost, he would need no long reflection to discover that all these great
ships, these railways, these telegraphs, these factories, these printing-presses, without which
the whole fabric of modern English society would collapse into a mass of stagnant and starving
pauperism,--that all these pillars of our State are but the ripples and the bubbles upon the
surface of that great spiritual stream, the springs of which only, he and his fellows were
privileged to see; and seeing, to recognise as that which it behoved them above all things
to keep pure and undefiled.

It may not be too great a flight of imagination to conceive our noble revenant [39] not forgetful
of the great troubles of his own day, and anxious to know how often London had been burned
down since his time and how often the plague had carried off its thousands. He would have to
learn that, although London contains tenfold the inflammable matter that it did in 1666; though,
not content with filling our rooms with woodwork and light draperies, we must needs lead inflammable
and explosive gases into every corner of our streets and houses, we never allow even a street
to burn down. And if he asked how this had come about, we should have to explain that the improvement
of natural knowledge has furnished us with dozens of machines for throwing water upon fires,
any one of which would have furnished the ingenious Mr. Hooke, the first "curator and experimenter"
of the Royal Society, with ample materials for discourse before half a dozen meetings of that
body; and that, to say truth, except for the progress of natural knowledge, we should not have
been able to make even the tools by which these machines are constructed. And, further, it
would be necessary to add, that although severe fires sometimes occur and inflict great damage,
the loss is very generally compensated by societies, the operations of which have been rendered
possible only by the progress of natural knowledge in the direction of mathematics, and the
accumulation of wealth in virtue of other natural knowledge.

But the plague? My Lord Brouncker's observation would not, I fear, lead him to think that Englishmen
of the nineteenth century are purer in life, or more fervent in religious faith, than the generation
which could produce a Boyle,[40] an Evelyn,[41] and a Milton. He might find the mud of society
at the bottom, instead of at the top, but I fear that the sum total would be as deserving of
swift judgment as at the time of the Restoration.[42] And it would be our duty to explain once
more, and this time not without shame, that we have no reason to believe that it is the improvement
of our faith, nor that of our morals, which keeps the plague from our city; but, again, that
it is the improvement of our natural knowledge.

We have learned that pestilences will only take up their abode among those who have prepared
unswept and ungarnished residences for them. Their cities must have narrow, unwatered streets,
foul with accumulated garbage. Their houses must be ill-drained, ill-lighted, ill-ventilated.
Their subjects must be ill-washed, ill-fed, ill-clothed. The London of 1665 was such a city.
The cities of the East, where plague has an enduring dwelling, are such cities. We, in later
times, have learned somewhat of Nature, and partly obey her. Because of this partial improvement
of our natural knowledge and of that fractional obedience, we have no plague; because that
knowledge is still very imperfect and that obedience yet incomplete, typhoid is our companion
and cholera our visitor. But it is not presumptuous to express the belief that, when our knowledge
is more complete and our obedience the expression of our knowledge, London will count her centuries
of freedom from typhoid and cholera, as she now gratefully reckons her two hundred years of
ignorance of that plague which swooped upon her thrice in the first half of the seventeenth
century.

Surely, there is nothing in these explanations which is not fully borne out by the facts? Surely,
the principles involved in them are now admitted among the fixed beliefs of all thinking men?
Surely, it is true that our countrymen are less subject to fire, famine, pestilence, and all
the evils which result from a want of command over and due anticipation of the course of Nature,
than were the countrymen of Milton; and health, wealth, and well-being are more abundant with
us than with them? But no less certainly is the difference due to the improvement of our knowledge
of Nature, and the extent to which that improved knowledge has been incorporated with the household
words of men, and has supplied the springs of their daily actions.

Granting for a moment, then, the truth of that which the depreciators of natural knowledge
are so fond of urging, that its improvement can only add to the resources of our material civilisation;
admitting it to be possible that the founders of the Royal Society themselves looked for not
other reward than this, I cannot confess that I was guilty of exaggeration when I hinted, that
to him who had the gift of distinguishing between prominent events and important events, the
origin of a combined effort on the part of mankind to improve natural knowledge might have
loomed larger than the Plague and have outshone the glare of the Fire; as a something fraught
with a wealth of beneficence to mankind, in comparison with which the damage done by those
ghastly evils would shrink into insignificance.

It is very certain that for every victim slain by the plague, hundreds of mankind exist and
find a fair share of happiness in the world by the aid of the spinning jenny. And the great
fire, at its worst, could not have burned the supply of coal, the daily working of which, in
the bowels of the earth, made possible by the steam pump, gives rise to an amount of wealth
to which the millions lost in old London are but as an old song.

But spinning jenny and steam pump are, after all, but toys, possessing an accidental value;
and natural knowledge creates multitudes of more subtle contrivances, the praises of which
do not happen to be sung because they are not directly convertible into instruments for creating
wealth. When I contemplate natural knowledge squandering such gifts among men, the only appropriate
comparison I can find for her is to liken her to such a peasant woman as one sees in the Alps,
striding ever upward, heavily burdened, and with mind bent only on her home; but yet without
effort and without thought, knitting for her children. Now stockings are good and comfortable
things, and the children will undoubtedly be much the better for them; but surely it would
be short-sighted, to say the least of it, to depreciate this toiling mother as a mere stocking-machine--a
mere provider of physical comforts?

However, there are blind leaders of the blind, and not a few of them, who take this view of
natural knowledge, and can see nothing in the bountiful mother of humanity but a sort of comfort-grinding
machine. According to them, the improvement of natural knowledge always has been, and always
must be, synonymous with no more than the improvement of the material resources and the increase
of the gratifications of men.

Natural knowledge is, in their eyes, no real mother of mankind, bringing them up with kindness,
and, if need be, with sternness, in the way they should go, and instructing them in all things
needful for their welfare; but a sort of fairy god-mother, ready to furnish her pets with shoes
of swiftness, swords of sharpness, and omnipotent Aladdin's lamps,[43] so that they may have
telegraphs to Saturn, and see the other side of the moon, and thank God they are better than
their benighted ancestors.

If this talk were true, I, for one, should not greatly care to toil in the service of natural
knowledge. I think I would just as soon be quietly chipping my own flint axe, after the manner
of my forefathers a few thousand years back, as be troubled with the endless malady of thought
which now infests us all, for such reward. But I venture to say that such views are contrary
alike to reason and to fact. Those who discourse in such fashion seem to me to be so intent
upon trying to see what is above Nature, or what is behind her, that they are blind to what
stares them in the face in her.

I should not venture thus to speak strongly if my justification were not to be found in the
simplest and most obvious facts,--if it needed more than an appeal to the most notorious truths
to justify my assertion, that the improvement of natural knowledge, whatever direction it has
taken, and however low the aims of those who may have commenced it--has not only conferred
practical benefits on men, but, in so doing, has effected a revolution in their conceptions
of the universe and of themselves, and has profoundly altered their modes of thinking and their
views of right and wrong. I say that natural knowledge, seeking to satisfy natural wants, has
found the ideas which can alone still spiritual cravings. I say that natural knowledge, in
desiring to ascertain the laws of comfort, has been driven to discover those of conduct, and
to lay the foundations of a new morality.

Let us take these points separately; and first, what great ideas has natural knowledge introduced
into men's minds?

I cannot but think that the foundations of all natural knowledge were laid when the reason
of man first came face to face with the facts of Nature; when the savage first learned that
the fingers of one hand are fewer than those of both; that it is shorter to cross a stream
than to head it; that a stone stops where it is unless it be moved, and that it drops from
the hand which lets it go; that light and heat come and go with the sun; that sticks burn away
in a fire; that plants and animals grow and die; that if he struck his fellow savage a blow
he would make him angry, and perhaps get a blow in return, while if he offered him a fruit
he would please him, and perhaps receive a fish in exchange. When men had acquired this much
knowledge, the outlines, rude though they were, of mathematics, of physics, of chemistry, of
biology, of moral, economical, and political science, were sketched. Nor did the germ of religion
fail when science began to bud. Listen to words which, though new, are yet three thousand years
old:--

. . . When in heaven the stars about the moon Look beautiful, when all the winds are laid,
And every height comes out, and jutting peak And valley, and the immeasurable heavens Break
open to their highest, and all the stars Shine, and the shepherd gladdens in his heart.[44]

If the half savage Greek could share our feelings thus far, it is irrational to doubt that
he went further, to find as we do, that upon that brief gladness there follows a certain sorrow,--the
little light of awakened human intelligence shines so mere a spark amidst the abyss of the
unknown and unknowable; seems so insufficient to do more than illuminate the imperfections
that cannot be remedied, the aspirations that cannot be realised, of man's own nature. But
in this sadness, this consciousness of the limitation of man, this sense of an open secret
which he cannot penetrate, lies the essence of all religion; and the attempt to embody it in
the forms furnished by the intellect is the origin of the higher theologies.

Thus it seems impossible to imagine but that the foundations of all knowledge--secular or sacred--were
laid when intelligence dawned, though the superstructure remained for long ages so slight and
feeble as to be compatible with the existence of almost any general view respecting the mode
of governance of the universe. No doubt, from the first, there were certain phenomena which,
to the rudest mind, presented a constancy of occurrence, and suggested that a fixed order ruled,
at any rate, among them. I doubt if the grossest of Fetish worshippers ever imagined that a
stone must have a god within it to make it fall, or that a fruit had a god within it to make
it taste sweet. With regard to such matters as these, it is hardly questionable that mankind
from the first took strictly positive and scientific views.

But, with respect to all the less familiar occurrences which present themselves, uncultured
man, no doubt, has always taken himself as the standard of comparison, as the centre and measure
of the world; nor could be well avoid doing so. And finding that his apparently uncaused will
has a powerful effect in giving rise to many occurrences, he naturally enough ascribed other
and greater events to other and greater volitions and came to look upon the world and all that
therein is, as the product of the volitions of persons like himself, but stronger, and capable
of being appeased or angered, as he himself might be soothed or irritated. Through such conceptions
of the plan and working of the universe all mankind have passed, or are passing. And we may
now consider what has been the effect of the improvement of natural knowledge on the views
of men who have reached this stage, and who have begun to cultivate natural knowledge with
no desire but that of "increasing God's honour and bettering man's estate."[45]

For example, what could seem wiser, from a mere material point of view, more innocent, from
a theological one, to an ancient people, than that they should learn the exact succession of
the seasons, as warnings for their husbandmen; or the position of the stars, as guides to their
rude navigators?[46] But what has grown out of this search for natural knowledge of so merely
useful a character? You all know the reply. Astronomy,--which of all sciences has filled men's
minds with general ideas of a character most foreign to their daily experience, and has, more
than any other, rendered it impossible for them to accept the beliefs of their fathers. Astronomy,--which
tells them that this so vast and seemingly solid earth is but an atom among atoms, whirling,
no man knows whither, through illimitable space; which demonstrates that what we call the peaceful
heaven above us, is but that space, filled by an infinitely subtle matter whose particles are
seething and surging, like the waves of an angry sea; which opens up to us infinite regions
where nothing is known, or ever seems to have been known, but matter and force, operating according
to rigid rules; which leads us to contemplate phaenomena the very nature of which demonstrates
that they must have had a beginning, and that they must have an end, but the very nature of
which also proves that the beginning was, to our conceptions of time, infinitely remote, and
that the end is as immeasurably distant.

But it is not alone those who pursue astronomy who ask for bread and receive ideas. What more
harmless than the attempt to lift and distribute water by pumping it; what more absolutely
and grossly utilitarian? Yet out of pumps grew the discussions about Nature's abhorrence of
a vacuum; and then it was discovered that Nature does not abhor a vacuum, but that air has
weight; and that notion paved the way for the doctrine that all matter has weight, and that
the force which produces weight is co-extensive with the universe,--in short, to the theory
of universal gravitation and endless force. While learning how to handle gases led to the discovery
of oxygen, and to modern chemistry, and to the notion of the indestructibility of matter.

Again, what simpler, or more absolutely practical, than the attempt to keep the axle of a wheel
from heating when the wheel turns round very fast? How useful for carters and gig drivers to
know something about this; and how good were it, if any ingenious person would find out the
cause of such phaenomena, and thence educe a general remedy for them. Such an ingenious person
was Count Rumford;[47] and he and his successors have landed us in the theory of the persistence,
or indestructibility, of force. And in the infinitely minute, as in the infinitely great, the
seekers after natural knowledge of the kinds called physical and chemical, have everywhere
found a definite order and succession of events which seem never to be infringed.

And how has it fared with "Physick" and Anatomy? Have the anatomist, the physiologist, or the
physician, whose business it has been to devote themselves assiduously to that eminently practical
and direct end, the alleviation of the sufferings of mankind,--have they been able to confine
their vision more absolutely to the strictly useful? I fear they are the worst offenders of
all. For if the astronomer has set before us the infinite magnitude of space, and the practical
eternity of the duration of the universe; if the physical and chemical philosophers have demonstrated
the infinite minuteness of its constituent parts, and the practical eternity of matter and
of force; and if both have alike proclaimed the universality of a definite and predicable order
and succession of events, the workers in biology have not only accepted all these, but have
added more startling theses of their own. For, as the astronomers discover in the earth no
centre of the universe, but an eccentric [48] speck, so the naturalists find man to be no centre
of the living world, but one amidst endless modifications of life; and as the astronomers observe
the mark of practically endless time set upon the arrangements of the solar system so the student
of life finds the records of ancient forms of existence peopling the world for ages, which,
in relation to human experience, are infinite.

Furthermore, the physiologist finds life to be as dependent for its manifestation of particular
molecular arrangements as any physical or chemical phenomenon; and wherever he extends his
researches, fixed order and unchanging causation reveal themselves, as plainly as in the rest
of Nature.

Nor can I find that any other fate has awaited the germ of Religion. Arising, like all other
kinds of knowledge, out of the action and interaction of man's mind, with that which is not
man's mind, it has taken the intellectual coverings of Fetishism or Polytheism; of Theism or
Atheism; of Superstition or Rationalism. With these, and their relative merits and demerits,
I have nothing to do; but this it is needful for my purpose to say, that if the religion of
the present differs from that of the past, it is because the theology of the present has become
more scientific than that of the past; because it has not only renounced idols of wood and
idols of stone, but begins to see the necessity of breaking in pieces the idols built up of
books and traditions and fine-spun ecclesiastical cobwebs: and of cherishing the noblest and
most human of man's emotions, by worship "for the most part of the silent sort" at the Altar
of the Unknown.

Such are a few of the new conceptions implanted in our minds by the improvement of natural
knowledge. Men have acquired the ideas of the practically infinite extent of the universe and
of its practical eternity; they are familiar with the conception that our earth is but an infinitesimal
fragment of that part of the universe which can be seen; and that, nevertheless, its duration
is, as compared with our standards of time, infinite. They have further acquired the idea that
man is but one of innumerable forms of life now existing on the globe, and that the present
existences are but the last of an immeasurable series of predecessors. Moreover, every step
they have made in natural knowledge has tended to extend and rivet in their minds the conception
of a definite order of the universe--which is embodied in what are called, by an unhappy metaphor,
the laws of Nature--and to narrow the range and loosen the force of men's belief in spontaneity,
or in changes other than such as arise out of that definite order itself.

Whether these ideas are well or ill founded is not the question. No one can deny that they
exist, and have been the inevitable outgrowth of the improvement of natural knowledge. And
if so, it cannot be doubted that they are changing the form of men's most cherished and most
important convictions.

And as regards the second point--the extent to which the improvement of natural knowledge has
remodelled and altered what may be termed the intellectual ethics of men,--what are among the
moral convictions most fondly held by barbarous and semi-barbarous people?

They are the convictions that authority is the soundest basis of belief; that merit attaches
to a readiness to believe; that the doubting disposition is a bad one, and scepticism a sin;
that when good authority has pronounced what is to be believed, and faith has accepted it,
reason has no further duty. There are many excellent persons who yet hold by these principles,
and it is not my present business, or intention, to discuss their views. All I wish to bring
clearly before your minds is the unquestionable fact, that the improvement of natural knowledge
is effected by methods which directly give the lie to all these convictions, and assume the
exact reverse of each to be true.

The improver of natural knowledge absolutely refuses to acknowledge authority, as such. For
him, scepticism is the highest of duties; blind faith the one unpardonable sin. And it cannot
be otherwise, for every great advance in natural knowledge has involved the absolute rejection
of authority, the cherishing of the keenest scepticism, the annihilation of the spirit of blind
faith; and the most ardent votary of science holds his firmest convictions, not because the
men he most venerates hold them; not because their verity is testified by portents and wonders;
but because his experience teaches him that whenever he chooses to bring these convictions
into contact with their primary source, Nature--whenever he thinks fit to test them by appealing
to experiment and to observation--Nature will confirm them. The man of science has learned
to believe in justification, not by faith, but by verification.

Thus, without for a moment pretending to despise the practical results of the improvement of
natural knowledge, and its beneficial influence on material civilisation, it must, I think,
be admitted that the great ideas, some of which I have indicated, and the ethical spirit which
I have endeavoured to sketch, in the few moments which remained at my disposal, constitute
the real and permanent significance of natural knowledge.

If these ideas be destined, as I believe they are, to be more and more firmly established as
the world grows older; if that spirit be fated, as I believe it is, to extend itself into all
departments of human thought, and to become co-extensive with the range of knowledge; if, as
our race approaches its maturity, it discovers, as I believe it will, that there is but one
kind of knowledge and but one method of acquiring it; then we, who are still children, may
justly feel it our highest duty to recognise the advisableness of improving natural knowledge,
and so to aid ourselves and our successors in our course towards the noble goal which lies
before mankind.

A LIBERAL EDUCATION [49]

The business which the South London Working Men's College has undertaken is a great work; indeed,
I might say, that Education, with which that college proposes to grapple, is the greatest work
of all those which lie ready to a man's hand just at present.

And, at length, this fact is becoming generally recognised. You cannot go anywhere without
hearing a buzz of more or less confused and contradictory talk on this subject--nor can you
fail to notice that, in one point at any rate, there is a very decided advance upon like discussions
in former days. Nobody outside the agricultural interest now dares to say that education is
a bad thing. If any representative of the once large and powerful party, which, in former days,
proclaimed this opinion, still exists in the semi-fossil state, he keeps his thoughts to himself.
In fact, there is a chorus of voices, almost distressing in their harmony, raised in favour
of the doctrine that education is the great panacea for human troubles, and that, if the country
is not shortly to go to the dogs, everybody must be educated.

The politicians tell us, "You must educate the masses because they are going to be masters."
The clergy join in the cry for education, for they affirm that the people are drifting away
from church and chapel into the broadest infidelity. The manufacturers and the capitalists
swell the chorus lustily. They declare that ignorance makes bad workmen; that England will
soon be unable to turn out cotton goods, or steam engines, cheaper than other people; and then,
Ichabod! Ichabod![50] the glory will be departed from us. And a few voices are lifted up in
favour of the doctrine that the masses should be educated because they are men and women with
unlimited capacities of being, doing, and suffering, and that it is as true now, as it ever
was, that the people perish for lack of knowledge.

These members of the minority, with whom I confess I have a good deal of sympathy, are doubtful
whether any of the other reasons urged in favour of the education of the people are of much
value--whether, indeed, some of them are based upon either wise or noble grounds of action.
They question if it be wise to tell people that you will do for them, out of fear of their
power, what you have left undone, so long as your only motive was compassion for their weakness
and their sorrows. And, if ignorance of everything which is needful a ruler should know is
likely to do so much harm in the governing classes of the future, why is it, they ask reasonably
enough, that such ignorance in the governing classes of the past has not been viewed with equal
horror?

Compare the average artisan and the average country squire, and it may be doubted if you will
find a pin to choose between the two in point of ignorance, class feeling, or prejudice. It
is true that the ignorance is of a different sort--that the class feeling is in favour of a
different class and that the prejudice has a distinct savour of wrong-headedness in each case--but
it is questionable if the one is either a bit better, or a bit worse, than the other. The old
protectionist theory is the doctrine of trades unions as applied by the squires, and the modern
trades unionism is the doctrine of the squires applied by the artisans. Why should we be worse
off under one regime than under the other?

Again, this sceptical minority asks the clergy to think whether it is really want of education
which keeps the masses away from their ministrations--whether the most completely educated
men are not as open to reproach on this score as the workmen; and whether, perchance, this
may not indicate that it is not education which lies at the bottom of the matter?

Once more, these people, whom there is no pleasing, venture to doubt whether the glory which
rests upon being able to undersell all the rest of the world, is a very safe kind of glory--whether
we may not purchase it too dear; especially if we allow education, which ought to be directed
to the making of men, to be diverted into a process of manufacturing human tools, wonderfully
adroit in the exercise of some technical industry, but good for nothing else.

And, finally, these people inquire whether it is the masses alone who need a reformed and improved
education. They ask whether the richest of our public schools might not well be made to supply
knowledge, as well as gentlemanly habits, a strong class feeling, and eminent proficiency in
cricket. They seem to think that the noble foundations of our old universities are hardly fulfilling
their functions in their present posture of half-clerical seminaries, half racecourses, where
men are trained to win a senior wranglership,[51] or a double-first,[52] as horses are trained
to win a cup, with as little reference to the needs of after-life in the case of a man as in
that of the racer. And, while as zealous for education as the rest, they affirm that, if the
education of the richer classes were such as to fit them to be the leaders and the governors
of the poorer; and, if the education of the poorer classes were such as to enable them to appreciate
really wise guidance and good governance, the politicians need not fear mob-law, nor the clergy
lament their want of flocks, nor the capitalists prognosticate the annihilation of the prosperity
of the country.

Such is the diversity of opinion upon the why and the wherefore of education. And my hearers
will be prepared to expect that the practical recommendations which are put forward are not
less discordant. There is a loud cry for compulsory education. We English, in spite of constant
experience to the contrary, preserve a touching faith in the efficacy of acts of Parliament;
and I believe we should have compulsory education in the courses of next session, if there
were the least probability that half a dozen leading statesmen of different parties would agree
what that education should be.

Some hold that education without theology is worse than none. Others maintain, quite as strongly,
that education with theology is in the same predicament. But this is certain, that those who
hold the first opinion can by no means agree what theology should be taught; and that those
who maintain the second are in a small minority.

At any rate "make people learn to read, write, and cipher," say a great many; and the advice
is undoubtedly sensible as far as it goes. But, as has happened to me in former days, those
who, in despair of getting anything better, advocate this measure, are met with the objection
that it is very like making a child practise the use of a knife, fork, and spoon, without giving
it particle of meat. I really don't know what reply is to be made to such an objection.

But it would be unprofitable to spend more time in disentangling, or rather in showing up the
knots in, the ravelled skeins of our neighbours. Much more to the purpose is it to ask if we
possess any clue of our own which may guide us among these entanglements. And by way of a beginning,
let us ask ourselves--What is education? Above all things, what is our ideal of a thoroughly
liberal education?--of that education which, if we could begin life again, we would give ourselves--of
that education which, if we could mould the fates to our own will, we would give our children?
Well, I know not what may be your conceptions upon this matter, but I will tell you mine, and
I hope I shall find that our views are not very discrepant. Those who won't learn at all are
plucked;[56] and then you can't come up again. Globigerinae, coccoliths, and coccospheres are
round as the chief constituents of both, and testify to the general similarity of the conditions
under which both have been formed.

THE PRINCIPAL SUBJECTS OF EDUCATION [76]

I know quite well that launching myself into this discussion [77] is a very dangerous operation;
that it is a very large subject, and one which is difficult to deal with, however much I may
trespass upon your patience in the time allotted to me. But the discussion is so fundamental,
it is so completely impossible to make up one's mind on these matters until one has settled
the question, that I will even venture to make the experiment. A great lawyer-statesman and
philosopher of a former age--I mean Francis Bacon [78]--said that truth came out of error much
more rapidly than it came out of confusion. There is a wonderful truth in that saying. Next
to being right in this world, the best of all things is to be clearly and definitely wrong,
because you will come out somewhere. If you go buzzing about between right and wrong, vibrating
and fluctuating, you come out nowhere; but if you are absolutely and thoroughly and persistently
wrong, you must, some of these days, have the extreme good fortune of knocking your head against
a fact, and that sets you all straight again. So I will not trouble myself as to whether I
may be right or wrong in what I am about to say, but at any rate I hope to be clear and definite;
and then you will be able to judge for yourselves whether, in following out the train of thought
I have to introduce, you knock your heads against facts or not.

I take it that the whole object of education is, in the first place, to train the faculties
of the young in such a manner as to give their possessors the best chance of being happy [79]
and useful in their generation; and, in the second place, to furnish them with the most important
portions of that immense capitalised experience of the human race which we call knowledge of
various kinds. I am using the term knowledge in its widest possible sense; and the question
is, what subjects to select by training and discipline, in which the object I have just defined
may be best attained.

I must call your attention further to this fact, that all the subjects of our thoughts--all
feelings and propositions (leaving aside our sensations as the mere materials and occasions
of thinking and feeling), all our mental furniture--may be classified under one of two heads--as
either within the province of the intellect, something that can be put into propositions and
affirmed or denied; or as within the province of feeling, or that which, before the name was
defiled, was called the aesthetic side of our nature, and which can neither be proved nor disproved,
but only felt and known.

According to the classification which I have put before you, then, the subjects of all knowledge
are divisible into the two groups, matters of science and matters of art; for all things with
which the reasoning faculty alone is occupied, come under the province of science; and in the
broadest sense, and not in the narrow and technical sense in which we are now accustomed to
use the word art, all things feelable, all things which stir our emotions, come under the term
of art, in the sense of the subject-matter of the aesthetic faculty. So that we are shut up
to this--that the business of education is, in the first place, to provide the young with the
means and the habit of observation; and, secondly, to supply the subject-matter of knowledge
either in the shape of science or of art, or of both combined.

Now, it is a very remarkable fact--but it is true of most things in this world--that there
is hardly anything one-sided, or of one nature; and it is not immediately obvious what of the
things that interest us may be regarded as pure science, and what may be regarded as pure art.
It may be that there are some peculiarly constituted persons who, before they have advanced
far into the depths of geometry, find artistic beauty about it; but, taking the generality
of mankind, I think it may be said that, when they begin to learn mathematics, their whole
souls are absorbed in tracing the connection between the premisses and the conclusion, and
that to them geometry is pure science. So I think it may be said that mechanics and osteology
are pure science. On the other hand, melody in music is pure art. You cannot reason about it;
there is no proposition involved in it. So, again, in the pictorial art, an arabesque, or a
"harmony in grey,"[80] touches none but the aesthetic faculty. But a great mathematician, and
even many persons who are not great mathematicians, will tell you that they derive immense
pleasure from geometrical reasonings. Everybody knows mathematicians speak of solutions and
problems as "elegant," and they tell you that a certain mass of mystic symbols is "beautiful,
quite lovely." Well, you do not see it. They do see it, because the intellectual process, the
process of comprehending the reasons symbolised by these figures and these signs, confers upon
them a sort of pleasure, such as an artist has in visual symmetry. Take a science of which
I may speak with more confidence, and which is the most attractive of those I am concerned
with. It is what we call morphology, which consists in tracing out the unity in variety of
the infinitely diversified structures of animals and plants. I cannot give you any example
of a thorough aesthetic pleasure more intensely real than a pleasure of this kind--the pleasure
which arises in one's mind when a whole mass of different structures run into one harmony as
the expression of a central law. That is where the province of art overlays and embraces the
province of intellect. And, if I may venture to express an opinion on such a subject, the great
majority of forms of art are not in the sense what I just now defined them to be--pure art;
but they derive much of their quality from simultaneous and even unconscious excitement of
the intellect.

When I was a boy, I was very fond of music, and I am so now; and it so happened that I had
the opportunity of hearing much good music. Among other things, I had abundant opportunities
of hearing that great old master, Sebastian Bach. I remember perfectly well--though I knew
nothing about music then, and, I may add, know nothing whatever about it now--the intense satisfaction
and delight which I had in listening, by the hour together, to Bach's fugues. It is a pleasure
which remains with me, I am glad to think; but, of late years, I have tried to find out the
why and wherefore, and it has often occurred to me that the pleasure derived from musical compositions
of this kind is essentially of the same nature as that which is derived from pursuits which
are commonly regarded as purely intellectual. I mean, that the source of pleasure is exactly
the same as in most of my problems in morphology--that you have the theme in one of the old
master's works followed out in all its endless variations, always appearing and always reminding
you of unity in variety. So in painting; what is called "truth to nature" is the intellectual
element coming in, and truth to nature depends entirely upon the intellectual culture of the
person to whom art is addressed. If you are in Australia, you may get credit for being a good
artist--I mean among the natives--if you can draw a kangaroo after a fashion. But, among men
of higher civilisation, the intellectual knowledge we possess brings its criticism into our
appreciation of works of art, and we are obliged to satisfy it, as well as the mere sense of
beauty in colour and in outline. And so, the higher the culture and information of those whom
art addresses, the more exact and precise must be what we call its "truth to nature."

If we turn to literature, the same thing is true, and you find works of literature which may
be said to be pure art. A little song of Shakespeare or of Goethe is pure art; it is exquisitely
beautiful, although its intellectual content may be nothing. A series of pictures is made to
pass before your mind by the meaning of words, and the effect is a melody of ideas. Nevertheless,
the great mass of the literature we esteem is valued, not merely because of having artistic
form, but because of its intellectual content; and the value is the higher the more precise,
distinct, and true is that intellectual content. And, if you will let me for a moment speak
of the very highest forms of literature, do we not regard them as highest simply because the
more we know the truer they seem, and the more competent we are to appreciate beauty the more
beautiful they are? No man ever understands Shakespeare until he is old, though the youngest
may admire him, the reason being that he satisfies the artistic instinct of the youngest and
harmonises with the ripest and richest experience of the oldest.

I have said this much to draw your attention to what, in my mind, lies at the root of all this
matter, and at the understanding of one another by the men of science on the one hand, and
the men of literature, and history, and art, on the other. It is not a question whether one
order of study or another should predominate. It is a question of what topics of education
you shall select which will combine all the needful elements in such due proportion as to give
the greatest amount of food, support, and encouragement to those faculties which enable us
to appreciate truth, and to profit by those sources of innocent happiness which are open to
us, and, at the same time, to avoid that which is bad, and coarse, and ugly, and keep clear
of the multitude of pitfalls and dangers which beset those who break through the natural or
moral laws.

I address myself, in this spirit, to the consideration of the question of the value of purely
literary education. Is it good and sufficient, or is it insufficient and bad? Well, here I
venture to say that there are literary educations and literary educations. If I am to understand
by that term the education that was current in the great majority of middle-class schools,
and upper schools too, in this country when I was a boy, and which consisted absolutely and
almost entirely in keeping boys for eight or ten years at learning the rules of Latin and Greek
grammar, construing certain Latin and Greek authors, and possibly making verses which, had
they been English verses, would have been condemned as abominable doggerel,--if that is what
you mean by liberal education, then I say it is scandalously insufficient and almost worthless.
My reason for saying so is not from the point of view of science at all, but from the point
of view of literature. I say the thing professes to be literary education that is not a literary
education at all. It was not literature at all that was taught, but science in a very bad form.
It is quite obvious that grammar is science and not literature. The analysis of a text by the
help of the rules of grammar is just as much a scientific operation as the analysis of a chemical
compound by the help of the rules of chemical analysis. There is nothing that appeals to the
aesthetic faculty in that operation; and I ask multitudes of men of my own age, who went through
this process, whether they ever had a conception of art or literature until they obtained it
for themselves after leaving school? Then you may say, "If that is so, if the education was
scientific, why cannot you be satisfied with it?" I say, because although it is a scientific
training, it is of the most inadequate and inappropriate kind. If there is any good at all
in scientific education it is that men should be trained, as I said before, to know things
for themselves at first hand, and that they should understand every step of the reason of that
which they do.

I desire to speak with the utmost respect of that science--philology--of which grammar is a
part and parcel; yet everybody knows that grammar, as it is usually learned at school, affords
no scientific training. It is taught just as you would teach the rules of chess or draughts.
On the other hand, if I am to understand by a literary education the study of the literatures
of either ancient or modern nations--but especially those of antiquity, and especially that
of ancient Greece; if this literature is studied, not merely from the point of view of philological
science, and its practical application to the interpretation of texts, but as an exemplification
of and commentary upon the principles of art; if you look upon the literature of a people as
a chapter in the development of the human mind, if you work out this in a broad spirit, and
with such collateral references to morals and politics, and physical geography, and the like
as are needful to make you comprehend what the meaning of ancient literature and civilisation
is,--then, assuredly, it affords a splendid and noble education. But I still think it is susceptible
of improvement, and that no man will ever comprehend the real secret of the difference between
the ancient world and our present time, unless he has learned to see the difference which the
late development of physical science has made between the thought of this day and the thought
of that, and he will never see that difference, unless he has some practical insight into some
branches of physical science; and you must remember that a literary education such as that
which I have just referred to, is out of the reach of those whose school life is cut short
at sixteen or seventeen.

But, you will say, all this is fault-finding; let us hear what you have in the way of positive
suggestion. Then I am bound to tell you that, if I could make a clean sweep of everything--I
am very glad I cannot because I might, and probably should, make mistakes,--but if I could
make a clean sweep of everything and start afresh, I should, in the first place, secure that
training of the young in reading and writing, and in the habit of attention and observation,
both to that which is told them, and that which they see, which everybody agrees to. But in
addition to that, I should make it absolutely necessary for everybody, for a longer or shorter
period, to learn to draw. Now, you may say, there are some people who cannot draw, however
much they may be taught. I deny that in toto, because I never yet met with anybody who could
not learn to write. Writing is a form of drawing; therefore if you give the same attention
and trouble to drawing as you do to writing, depend upon it, there is nobody who cannot be
made to draw, more or less well. Do not misapprehend me. I do not say for one moment you would
make an artistic draughtsman. Artists are not made; they grow. You may improve the natural
faculty in that direction, but you cannot make it; but you can teach simple drawing, and you
will find it an implement of learning of extreme value. I do not think its value can be exaggerated,
because it gives you the means of training the young in attention and accuracy, which are the
two things in which all mankind are more deficient than in any other mental quality whatever.
The whole of my life has been spent in trying to give my proper attention to things and to
be accurate, and I have not succeeded as well as I could wish; and other people, I am afraid,
are not much more fortunate. You cannot begin this habit too early, and I consider there is
nothing of so great a value as the habit of drawing, to secure those two desirable ends.

Then we come to the subject-matter, whether scientific or aesthetic, of education, and I should
naturally have no question at all about teaching the elements of physical science of the kind
I have sketched, in a practical manner; but among scientific topics, using the word scientific
in the broadest sense, I would also include the elements of the theory of morals and of that
of political and social life, which, strangely enough, it never seems to occur to anybody to
teach a child. I would have the history of our own country, and of all the influences which
have been brought to bear upon it, with incidental geography, not as a mere chronicle of reigns
and battles, but as a chapter in the development of the race, and the history of civilisation.

Then with respect to aesthetic knowledge and discipline, we have happily in the English language
one of the most magnificent storehouses of artistic beauty and of models of literary excellence
which exists in the world at the present time. I have said before, and I repeat it here, that
if a man cannot get literary culture of the highest kind out of his Bible, and Chaucer, and
Shakespeare, and Milton, and Hobbes,[81] and Bishop Berkeley,[82] to mention only a few of
our illustrious writers--I say, if he cannot get it out of those writers he cannot get it out
of anything; and I would assuredly devote a very large portion of the time of every English
child to the careful study of the models of English writing of such varied and wonderful kind
as we possess, and, what is still more important and still more neglected, the habit of using
that language with precision, with force, and with art. I fancy we are almost the only nation
in the world who seem to think that composition comes by nature. The French attend to their
own language, the Germans study theirs; but Englishmen do not seem to think it is worth their
while. Nor would I fail to include, in the course of study I am sketching, translations of
all the best works of antiquity, or of the modern world. It is a very desirable thing to read
Homer in Greek; but if you don't happen to know Greek, the next best thing we can do is to
read as good a translation of it as we have recently been furnished with in prose.[83] You
won't get all you would get from the original, but you may get a great deal; and to refuse
to know this great deal because you cannot get all, seems to be as sensible as for a hungry
man to refuse bread because he cannot get partridge. Finally, I would add instruction in either
music or painting, or, if the child should be so unhappy, as sometimes happens, as to have
no faculty for either of those, and no possibility of doing anything in any artistic sense
with them, then I would see what could be done with literature alone; but I would provide,
in the fullest sense, for the development of the aesthetic side of the mind. In my judgment,
those are all the essentials of education for an English child. With that outfit, such as it
might be made in the time given to education which is within the reach of nine-tenths of the
population--with that outfit, an Englishman, within the limits of English life, is fitted to
go anywhere, to occupy the highest positions, to fill the highest offices of the State, and
to become distinguished in practical pursuits, in science, or in art. For, if he have the opportunity
to learn all those things, and have his mind disciplined in the various directions the teaching
of those topics would have necessitated, then, assuredly, he will be able to pick up, on his
road through life, all the rest of the intellectual baggage he wants.

If the educational time at our disposition were sufficient, there are one or two things I would
add to those I have just now called the essentials; and perhaps you will be surprised to hear,
though I hope you will not, that I should add, not more science, but one, or, if possible,
two languages. The knowledge of some other language than one's own is, in fact, of singular
intellectual value. Many of the faults and mistakes of the ancient philosophers are traceable
to the fact that they knew no language but their own, and were often led into confusing the
symbol with the thought which it embodied. I think it is Locke [84] who says that one-half
of the mistakes of philosophers have arisen from questions about words; and one of the safest
ways of delivering yourself from the bondage of words is, to know how ideas look in words to
which you are not accustomed. That is one reason for the study of language; another reason
is, that it opens new fields in art and in science. Another is the practical value of such
knowledge; and yet another is this, that if your languages are properly chosen, from the time
of learning the additional languages you will know your own language better than ever you did.
So, I say, if the time given to education permits, add Latin and German. Latin, because it
is the key to nearly one-half of English and to all the Romance languages; and German, because
it is the key to almost all the remainder of English, and helps you to understand a race from
whom most of us have sprung, and who have a character and a literature of a fateful force in
the history of the world, such as probably has been allotted to those of no other people, except
the Jews, the Greeks, and ourselves. Beyond these, the essential and the eminently desirable
elements of all education, let each man take up his special line--the historian devote himself
to his history, the man of science to his science, the man of letters to his culture of that
kind, and the artist to his special pursuit.

Bacon has prefaced some of his works with no more than this: Franciscus Bacon sic cogitavit;[85]
let "sic cogitavi" be the epilogue to what I have ventured to address to you to-night.

THE METHOD OF SCIENTIFIC INVESTIGATION [86]

The method of scientific investigation is nothing but the expression of the necessary mode
of working of the human mind. It is simply the mode at which all phenomena are reasoned about,
rendered precise and exact. There is no more difference, but there is just the same kind of
difference, between the mental operations of a man of science and those of an ordinary person,
as there is between the operations and methods of a baker or of a butcher weighing out his
goods in common scales, and the operations of a chemist in performing a difficult and complex
analysis by means of his balance and finely graduated weights. It is not that the action of
the scales in the one case, and the balance in the other, differ in the principles of their
construction or manner of working; but the beam of one is set on an infinitely finer axis than
the other, and of course turns by the addition of a much smaller weight.

You will understand this better, perhaps, if I give you some familiar example. You have all
heard it repeated, I dare say, that men of science work by means of induction and deduction,
and that by the help of these operations, they, in a sort of sense, wring from Nature certain
other things, which are called natural laws, and causes, and that out of these, by some cunning
skill of their own, they build up hypotheses and theories. And it is imagined by many, that
the operations of the common mind can be by no means compared with these processes, and that
they have to be acquired by a sort of special apprenticeship to the craft. To hear all these
large words, you would think that the mind of a man of science must be constituted differently
from that of his fellow men; but if you will not be frightened by terms, you will discover
that you are quite wrong, and that all these terrible apparatus [87] are being used by yourselves
every day and every hour of your lives.

There is a well-known incident in one of Moliere's plays,[88] where the author makes the hero
express unbounded delight on being told that he had been talking prose during the whole of
his life. In the same way, I trust, that you will take comfort, and be delighted with yourselves,
on the discovery that you have been acting on the principles of inductive and deductive philosophy
during the same period. Probably there is not one here who has not in the course of the day
had occasion to set in motion a complex train of reasoning, of the very same kind, though differing
of course in degree, as that which a scientific man goes through in tracing the causes of natural
phenomena.

A very trivial circumstance will serve to exemplify this. Suppose you go into a fruiterer's
shop, wanting an apple,--you take up one, and, on biting it, you find it is sour; you look
at it, and see that it is hard and green. You take up another one, and that too is hard, green,
and sour. The shopman offers you a third; but, before biting it, you examine it, and find that
it is hard and green, and you immediately say that you will not have it, as it must be sour,
like those that you have already tried.

Nothing can be more simple than that, you think; but if you will take the trouble to analyse
and trace out into its logical elements what has been done by the mind, you will be greatly
surprised. In the first place you have performed the operation of induction. You found that,
in two experiences, hardness and greenness in apples went together with sourness. It was so
in the first case, and it was confirmed by the second. True, it is a very small basis, but
still it is enough to make an induction from; you generalise the facts, and you expect to find
sourness in apples where you get hardness and greenness. You found upon that a general law
that all hard and green apples are sour; and that, so far as it goes, is a perfect induction.
Well, having got your natural law in this way, when you are offered another apple which you
find is hard and green, you say, "All hard and green apples are sour; this apple is hard and
green, therefore this apple is sour." That train of reasoning is what logicians call a syllogism,
and has all its various parts and terms,--its major premiss, its minor premiss and its conclusion.
And, by the help of further reasoning, which, if drawn out, would have to be exhibited in two
or three other syllogisms, you arrive at your final determination, "I will not have that apple."
So that, you see, you have, in the first place, established a law by induction, and upon that
you have founded a deduction, and reasoned out the special particular case. Well now, suppose,
having got your conclusion of the law, that at some time afterwards, you are discussing the
qualities of apples with a friend: you will say to him, "It is a very curious thing,--but I
find that all hard and green apples are sour!" Your friend says to you, "But how do you know
that?" You at once reply, "Oh, because I have tried them over and over again, and have always
found them to be so." Well, if we were talking science instead of common sense, we should call
that an experimental verification. And, if still opposed, you go further, and say, "I have
heard from the people in Somersetshire and Devonshire, where a large number of apples are grown,
that they have observed the same thing. It is also found to be the case in Normandy, and in
North America. In short, I find it to be the universal experience of mankind wherever attention
has been directed to the subject." Whereupon, your friend, unless he is a very unreasonable
man, agrees with you, and is convinced that you are quite right in the conclusion you have
drawn. He believes, although perhaps he does not know he believes it, that the more extensive
verifications are,--that the more frequently experiments have been made, and results of the
same kind arrived at,--that the more varied the conditions under which the same results are
attained, the more certain is the ultimate conclusion, and he disputes the question no further.
He sees that the experiment has been tried under all sorts of conditions, as to time, place,
and people, with the same result; and he says with you, therefore, that the law you have laid
down must be a good one, and he must believe it.

In science we do the same thing;--the philosopher exercises precisely the same faculties, though
in a much more delicate manner. In scientific inquiry it becomes a matter of duty to expose
a supposed law to every possible kind of verification, and to take care, moreover, that this
is done intentionally, and not left to a mere accident, as in the case of the apples. And in
science, as in common life, our confidence in a law is in exact proportion to the absence of
variation in the result of our experimental verifications. For instance, if you let go your
grasp of an article you may have in your hand, it will immediately fall to the ground. That
is a very common verification of one of the best established laws of nature--that of gravitation.
The method by which men of science establish the existence of that law is exactly the same
as that by which we have established the trivial proposition about the sourness of hard and
green apples. But we believe it in such an extensive, thorough, and unhesitating manner because
the universal experience of mankind verifies it, and we can verify it ourselves at any time;
and that is the strongest possible foundation on which any natural law can rest.

So much, then, by way of proof that the method of establishing laws in science is exactly the
same as that pursued in common life. Let us now turn to another matter (though really it is
but another phase of the same question), and that is, the method by which, from the relations
of certain phenomena, we prove that some stand in the position of causes towards the others.

I want to put the case clearly before you, and I will therefore show you what I mean by another
familiar example. I will suppose that one of you, on coming down in the morning to the parlor
of your house, finds that a tea-pot and some spoons which had been left in the room on the
previous evening are gone,--the window is open, and you observe the mark of a dirty hand on
the window-frame, and perhaps, in addition to that, you notice the impress of a hob-nailed
shoe on the gravel outside. All these phenomena have struck your attention instantly, and before
two seconds have passed you say, "Oh, somebody has broken open the window, entered the room,
and run off with the spoons and the tea-pot!" That speech is out of your mouth in a moment.
And you will probably add, "I know there has; I am quite sure of it!" You mean to say exactly
what you know; but in reality you are giving expression to what is, in all essential particulars,
an hypothesis. You do not KNOW it at all; it is nothing but an hypothesis rapidly framed in
your own mind. And it is an hypothesis founded on a long train of inductions and deductions.

What are those inductions and deductions, and how have you got at this hypothesis? You have
observed in the first place, that the window is open; but by a train of reasoning involving
many inductions and deductions, you have probably arrived long before at the general law--and
a very good one it is--that windows do not open of themselves; and you therefore conclude that
something has opened the window. A second general law that you have arrived at in the same
way is, that tea-pots and spoons do not go out of a window spontaneously, and you are satisfied
that, as they are not now where you left them, they have been removed. In the third place,
you look at the marks on the windowsill, and the shoe-marks outside, and you say that in all
previous experience the former kind of mark has never been produced by anything else but the
hand of a human being; and the same experience shows that no other animal but man at present
wears shoes with hob-nails in them such as would produce the marks in the gravel. I do not
know, even if we could discover any of those "missing links" that are talked about, that they
would help us to any other conclusion! At any rate the law which states our present experience
is strong enough for my present purpose. You next reach the conclusion that, as these kind
[89] of marks have not been left by any other animal than man, or are liable to be formed in
any other way than a man's hand and shoe, the marks in question have been formed by a man in
that way. You have, further, a general law, founded on observation and experience, and that,
too, is, I am sorry to say, a very universal and unimpeachable one,--that some men are thieves;
and you assume at once from all these premisses--and that is what constitutes your hypothesis--that
the man who made the marks outside and on the window-sill, opened the window, got into the
room, and stole your tea-pot and spoons. You have now arrived at a vera causa;--you have assumed
a cause which, it is plain, is competent to produce all the phenomena you have observed. You
can explain all these phenomena only by the hypothesis of a thief. But that is a hypothetical
conclusion, of the justice of which you have no absolute proof at all; it is only rendered
highly probable by a series of inductive and deductive reasonings.

I suppose your first action, assuming that you are a man of ordinary common sense, and that
you have established this hypothesis to your own satisfaction, will very likely be to go off
for the police, and set them on the track of the burglar, with the view to the recovery of
your property. But just as you are starting with this object, some person comes in, and on
learning what you are about, says, "My good friend, you are going on a great deal too fast.
How do you know that the man who really made the marks took the spoons? It might have been
a monkey that took them, and the man may have merely looked in afterwards." You would probably
reply, "Well, that is all very well, but you see it is contrary to all experience of the way
tea-pots and spoons are abstracted; so that, at any rate, your hypothesis is less probable
than mine." While you are talking the thing over in this way, another friend arrives, one of
the good kind of people that I was talking of a little while ago. And he might say, "Oh, my
dear sir, you are certainly going on a great deal too fast. You are most presumptuous. You
admit that all these occurrences took place when you were fast asleep, at a time when you could
not possibly have known anything about what was taking place. How do you know that the laws
of Nature are not suspended during the night? It may be that there has been some kind of supernatural
interference in this case." In point of fact, he declares that your hypothesis is one of which
you cannot at all demonstrate the truth, and that you are by no means sure that the laws of
Nature are the same when you are asleep as when you are awake.

Well, now, you cannot at the moment answer that kind of reasoning. You feel that your worthy
friend has you somewhat at a disadvantage. You will feel perfectly convinced in your own mind,
however, that you are quite right, and you say to him, "My good friend, I can only be guided
by the natural probabilities of the case, and if you will be kind enough to stand aside and
permit me to pass, I will go and fetch the police." Well, we will suppose that your journey
is successful, and that by good luck you meet with a policeman; that eventually the burglar
is found with your property on his person, and the marks correspond to his hand and to his
boots. Probably any jury would consider those facts a very good experimental verification of
your hypothesis, touching the cause of the abnormal phenomena observed in your parlor, and
would act accordingly.

Now, in this supposititious case, I have taken phenomena of a very common kind, in order that
you might see what are the different steps in an ordinary process of reasoning, if you will
only take the trouble to analyse it carefully. All the operations I have described, you will
see, are involved in the mind of any man of sense in leading him to a conclusion as to the
course he should take in order to make good a robbery and punish the offender. I say that you
are led, in that case, to your conclusion by exactly the same train of reasoning as that which
a man of science pursues when he is endeavouring to discover the origin and laws of the most
occult phenomena. The process is, and always must be, the same; and precisely the same mode
of reasoning was employed by Newton [90] and Laplace [91] in their endeavours to discover and
define the causes of the movements of the heavenly bodies, as you, with your own common sense,
would employ to detect a burglar. The only difference is, that the nature of the inquiry being
more abstruse, every step has to be most carefully watched, so that there may not be a single
crack or flaw in your hypothesis. A flaw or crack in many of the hypotheses of daily life may
be of little or no moment as affecting the general correctness of the conclusions at which
we may arrive; but, in a scientific inquiry, a fallacy, great or small, is always of importance,
and is sure to be in the long run constantly productive of mischievous if not fatal results.

Do not allow yourselves to be misled by the common notion that an hypothesis is untrustworthy
simply because it is an hypothesis. It is often urged, in respect to some scientific conclusion,
that, after all, it is only an hypothesis. But what more have we to guide us in nine-tenths
of the most important affairs of daily life than hypotheses, and often very ill-based ones?
So that in science, where the evidence of an hypothesis is subjected to the most rigid examination,
we may rightly pursue the same course. You may have hypotheses, and hypotheses. A man may say,
if he likes, that the moon is made of green cheese: that is an hypothesis. But another man,
who has devoted a great deal of time and attention to the subject, and availed himself of the
most powerful telescopes and the results of the observations of others, declares that in his
opinion it is probably composed of materials very similar to those of which our own earth is
made up: and that is also only an hypothesis. But I need not tell you that there is an enormous
difference in the value of the two hypotheses. That one which is based on sound scientific
knowledge is sure to have a corresponding value; and that which is a mere hasty random guess
is likely to have but little value. Every great step in our progress in discovering causes
has been made in exactly the same way as that which I have detailed to you. A person observing
the occurrence of certain facts and phenomena asks, naturally enough, what process, what kind
of operation known to occur in Nature applied to the particular case, will unravel and explain
the mystery? Hence you have the scientific hypothesis; and its value will be proportionate
to the care and completeness with which its basis had been tested and verified. It is in these
matters as in the commonest affairs of practical life: the guess of the fool will be folly,
while the guess of the wise man will contain wisdom. In all cases, you see that the value of
the result depends on the patience and faithfulness with which the investigator applies to
his hypothesis every possible kind of verification.

NOTES

AUTOBIOGRAPHY

[Footnote 1: Autobiography: Huxley's account of this sketch, written in 1889, is as follows:
"A man who is bringing out a series of portraits of celebrities, with a sketch of their career
attached, has bothered me out of my life for something to go with my portrait, and to escape
the abominable bad taste of some of the notices, I have done that."]

[Footnote 2: pre-Boswellian epoch: the time before Boswell. James Boswell (1740-1795) wrote
the famous Life of Samuel Johnson. Mr. Leslie Stephen declares that this book "became the first
specimen of a new literary type." "It is a full-length portrait of a man's domestic life with
enough picturesque detail to enable us to see him through the eyes of private friendship. .
. ." A number of biographers since Boswell have imitated his method; and Leslie Stephen believes
that "we owe it in some degree to his example that we have such delightful books as Lockhart's
Life of Scott or Mr. Trevelyan's Life of Macaulay."]

[Footnote 3: "Bene qui latuit, bene vixit": from Ovid. He who has kept himself well hidden,
has lived well.]

[Footnote 4: Prince George of Cambridge: the grandson of King George III, second Duke of Cambridge,
and Commander-in-chief of the British Army.]

[Footnote 5: Mr. Herbert Spencer (1820--1903): a celebrated English philosopher and powerful
advocate of the doctrine of evolution. Spencer is regarded as one of the most profound thinkers
of modern times. He was one of Huxley's closest friends.]

[Footnote 6: in partibus infidelium: in the domain of the unbelievers.]

[Footnote 7: "sweet south upon a bed of violets." Cf. Twelfth Night, Act I, sc. I, l. 5.

     O, it came o'er my ear like the sweet sound
     That breathes upon a bank of violets,
     Stealing and giving odour.

For the reading "sweet south" instead of "sweet sound," see Rolfe's edition of Twelfth Night.]

[Footnote 8: "Lehrjahre": apprenticeship.

Charing Cross School of Medicine: a school connected with the Charing Cross Hospital in the
Strand, London.]

[Footnote 9: Nelson: Horatio Nelson, a celebrated English Admiral born in Norfolk, England,
1758, and died on board the Victory at Trafalgar, 1805. It was before the battle off Cape Trafalgar
that Nelson hoisted his famous signal, "England expects every man will do his duty." Cf. Tennyson's
Ode to the Duke of Wellington, stanza VI, for a famous tribute to Nelson.]

[Footnote 10: middies: abbreviated form for midshipmen.]

[Footnote 11: Suites a Buffon: sequels to Buffon. Buffon (1707-1781) was a French naturalist
who wrote many volumes on science.]

[Footnote 12: Linnean Society: a scientific society formed in 1788 under the auspices of several
fellows of the Royal Society.]

[Footnote 13: Royal Society: The Royal Society for Improving Natural Knowledge; the oldest
scientific society in Great Britain, and one of the oldest in Europe. It was founded by Charles
II, in 1660, its nucleus being an association of learned men already in existence. It is supposed
to be identical with the Invisible College which Boyle mentions in 1646. It was incorporated
under the name of The Royal Society in 1661. The publications of the Royal Society are called
Philosophical Transactions. The society has close connection with the government, and has assisted
the government in various important scientific undertakings among which may be mentioned Parry's
North Pole expedition. The society also distributes $20,000 yearly for the promotion of scientific
research.]

[Footnote 14: Rastignac: a character in Le Pere Goriot. At the close of the story Rastignac
says, "A nous deux, maintenant":--Henceforth there is war between us.]

[Footnote 15: Pere Goriot: a novel of Balzac's with a plot similar to King Lear.]

[Footnote 16: Professor Tyndall (1820-1893): a distinguished British physicist and member of
the Royal Society. He explored with Huxley the glaciers of Switzerland. His work in electricity,
radiant heat, light and acoustics gave him a foremost place in science.]

[Footnote 17: Ecclesiastical spirit: the spirit manifested by the clergy of England in Huxley's
time against the truths of science. The clergy considered scientific truth to be disastrous
to religious truth. But this organization will be the work of generations of men, and those
who further it most will be those who teach men to rest in no lie, and to rest in no verbal
delusion."]

ON THE ADVISABLENESS OF IMPROVING NATURAL KNOWLEDGE (1866)

[Footnote 19: On the Advisableness of Improving Natural Knowledge: from Method and Results:
also published in Lay Sermons, Addresses and Reviews.]

For the history of the times mentioned in this essay, see Green's Short History of the English
People.]

[Footnote 20: The very spot: St. Martin's Borough Hall and Public Library, on Charing Cross
Road, near Trafalgar Square.]

[Footnote 21: Defoe (1661-1731): an English novelist and political writer. On account of his
political writings Defoe was sentenced to stand in the pillory, and to be "imprisoned during
the Queen's pleasure." During this imprisonment he wrote many articles. Later in life he wrote
Robinson Crusoe, The Fortunes and Misfortunes of Moll Flanders, Journal of the Plague Year,
and other books less well known.]

[Footnote 22: unholy cursing and crackling wit of the Rochesters and Sedleys: John Wilmot,
the second Earl of Rochester, and Sir Charles Sedley, were both friends of Charles II, and
were noted for biting wit and profligacy. Green, in his Short History of the English People,
thus describes them: "Lord Rochester was a fashionable poet, and the titles of some of his
poems are such as no pen of our day could copy. Sir Charles Sedley was a fashionable wit, and
the foulness of his words made even the porters in the Covent Garden belt him from the balcony
when he ventured to address them."]

[Footnote 23: Laud: Archbishop of Canterbury. Laud was born in 1573, and beheaded at London
in 1645. He was throughout the reign of Charles I a staunch supporter of the King. He was impeached
by the Long Parliament in 1640 and executed on Tower Hill, in 1645.]

[Footnote 24: selenography: the scientific study of the moon with special reference to its
physical condition.]

[Footnote 25: Torricellian experiment: a reference to the discovery of the principle of the
barometer by the Italian, Torricelli, in 1643.]

[Footnote 26: Sir Francis Bacon (1561-1626): Bacon endeavored to teach that civilization cannot
be brought to a high point except as man applies himself to the study of the secrets of nature,
and uses these discoveries for inventions which will give him power over his environment. The
chief value of the work was that it called attention to the uses of induction and to the experimental
study of facts. See Roger's A Student's History of Philosophy, page 243.]

[Footnote 27: The learned Dr. Wallis (1616-1703): Dr. Wallis is regarded as the greatest of
Newton's predecessors in mathematical history. His works are numerous and are on a great variety
of subjects. He was one of the first members of the Royal Society.]

[Footnote 28: "New Philosophy": Bacon's ideas on science and philosophy as set forth in his works.]

[Footnote 29: Royal Society: see note, page 11.]

[Footnote 30: Newton, Sir Isaac (1642-1721): a distinguished natural philosopher of England.
Newton was elected a member of the Royal Society in 1672. His most important scientific accomplishment
was the establishing of the law of universal gravitation. The story of the fall of the apple
was first related by Voltaire to whom it was given by Newton's niece.]

[Footnote 31: "Philosophical Transactions": the publications of the Royal Society.]

[Footnote 32: Galileo (1564-1642): a famous Italian astronomer. His most noted work was the
construction of the thermometer and a telescope. He discovered the satellites of Jupiter in
1610. In 1610, also, he observed the sun's spots. His views were condemned by the Pope in 1616
and in 1633 he was forced by the Inquisition to abjure the Copernican theory.]

[Footnote 33: Vesalius (1514-1564): a noted Belgian anatomist.]

[Footnote 34: Harvey (1578-1657): an English physiologist and anatomist. He is noted especially
for his discovery of the circulation of the blood.]

[Footnote 35: Subtle speculations: Selby gives examples from questions discussed by Thomas
Aquinas. Whether all angels belong to the same genus, whether demons are evil by nature, or
by will, whether they can change one substance into another, . . . whether an angel can move
from one point to another without passing through intermediate space.]

[Footnote 36: Schoolmen: a term used to designate the followers of scholasticism, a philosophy
of dogmatic religion which assumed a certain subject-matter as absolute and unquestionable.
The duty of the Schoolman was to explain church doctrine; these explanations were characterized
by fine distinctions and by an absence of real content. See Roger's A Student's History of
Philosophy; also Baldwin's Dictionary of Philosophy and Psychology.]

[Footnote 37: "writ in water": an allusion to Keats' request that the words "Here lies one
whose name was writ in water" be his epitaph. The words are inscribed on his tomb in the Protestant
Cemetery at Rome.]

[Footnote 38: Lord Brouncker: The first president of the Royal Society after its incorporation
in 1662 was Lord Brouneker.]

[Footnote 39: revenant: ghost.]

[Footnote 40: Boyle: Robert Boyle (1627-1691): a British chemist and natural philosopher who
was noted especially for his discovery of Boyle's law of the elasticity of air.]

[Footnote 41: Evelyn (1620-1706): an English author and member of the Royal Society. His most
important work is the Diary, valuable for the full account which it gives of the manners and
customs of the time.]

[Footnote 42: The Restoration: In English history the re-establishing of the English monarchy
with the return of King Charles II in 1660; by extension the whole reign of Charles II: as,
the dramatists of the Restoration. Century Dictionary.]

[Footnote 43: Aladdin's lamps: a reference to the story of the Wonderful Lamp in the Arabian
Nights. The magic lamp brought marvelous good fortune to the poor widow's son who possessed
it. Cf. also Lowell's Aladdin:--

     When I was a beggarly boy,
     And lived in a cellar damp,
     I had not a friend or a toy,
     But I had Aladdin's lamp;
     When I could not sleep for the cold,
     I had fire enough in my brain,
     And builded, with roofs of gold,
     My beautiful castles in Spain!]

[Footnote 44: "When in heaven the stars": from Tennyson's Specimens of a Translation of the
Iliad in Blank Verse.]

[Footnote 45: "increasing God's honour and bettering man's estate": Bacon's statement of his
purpose in writing the Advancement of Learning.]

[Footnote 46: For example, etc.: could the sentence beginning thus be written in better form?]

[Footnote 47: Rumford (1738-1814): Benjamin Thompson, Count Rumford, an eminent scientist.
Rumford was born in America and educated at Harvard. Suspected of loyalty to the King at the
time of the revolution, he was imprisoned. Acquitted, he went to England where he became prominent
in politics and science. Invested with the title of Count by the Holy Roman Empire, he chose
Rumford for his title after the name of the little New Hampshire town where he had taught.
He gave a large sum of money to Harvard College to found the Rumford professorship of science.]

[Footnote 48: eccentric: out of the centre.]

A LIBERAL EDUCATION (1868)

[Footnote 49: A Liberal Education: from Science and Education; also published in Lay Sermons,
Addresses and Reviews.]

[Footnote 50: Ichabod: cf. 1 Sam. iv, 21.]

[Footnote 51: senior wranglership: in Cambridge University, England, one who has attained the
first class in the elementary division of the public examination for honors in pure and mixed
mathematics, commonly called the mathematical tripos, those who compose the second rank of
honors being designated senior optimes, and those of the third order junior optimes. The student
taking absolutely the first place in the mathematical tripos used to be called senior wrangler,
those following next in the same division being respectively termed second, third, fourth,
etc., wranglers. Century Dictionary.]

[Footnote 52: double-first: any candidate for the degree of Bachelor of Arts in Oxford University
who takes first-class honors in both classics and mathematics is said to have won a double-first.]

[Footnote 53: Retzsch (1779-1857): a well-known German painter and engraver.]

[Footnote 54: Test-Act: an English statute of 1673. It compelled all persons holding office
under the crown to take the oaths of supremacy and of allegiance, to receive the sacrament
according to the usage of the Church of England, and to subscribe to the Declaration against
Transubstantiation.]

[Footnote 55: Poll: an abbreviation and transliteration of [Footnote Greek words], "the mob";
university slang for the whole body of students taking merely the degree of Bachelor of Arts,
at Cambridge.]

[Footnote 56: pluck: the rejection of a student, after examinations, who does not come up to
the standard.]

ON A PIECE OF CHALK

[Footnote 57: On a Piece of Chalk: a lecture to working-men from Lay Sermons, Addresses and
Reviews.]

[Footnote 58: Needles of the Isle of Wight: the needles are three white, pointed rocks of chalk,
resting on dark-colored bases, and rising abruptly from the sea to a height of 100 feet. Baedeker's
Great Britain.]

[Footnote 59: Lulworth in Dorset, to Flamborough Head: Lulworth is on the southern coast of
England, west of the Isle of Wight: Flamborough Head is on the northeastern coast of England
and extends into the German Ocean.]

[Footnote 60: Weald: a name given to an oval-shaped chalk area in England, beginning near the
Straits of Dover, and extending into the counties of Kent, Surrey, Hants, and Sussex.]

[Footnote 61: Lieut. Brooke: Brooke devised an apparatus for deep-sea sounding from which the
weight necessary to sink the instrument rapidly, was detached when it reached the bottom. The
object was to relieve the strain on the rope caused by rapid soundings. Improved apparatuses
have been invented since the time of Brooke.]

[Footnote 62: Ehrenberg (1795-1876): a German naturalist noted for his studies of Infusoria.]

[Footnote 63: Bailey of West Point (1811-1857): an American naturalist noted for his researches
in microscopy.]

[Footnote 64: enterprise of laying down the telegraph-cable: the first Atlantic telegraph-cable
between England and America was laid in 1858 by Cyrus W. Field of New York. Messages were sent
over it for a few weeks; then it ceased to act. A permanent cable was laid by Mr. Field in 1866.]

[Footnote 65: Dr. Wallich (1786-1854): a Danish botanist and member of the Royal Society.]

[Footnote 66: Mr. Sorby: President of the Geological Society of England, and author of many
papers on subjects connected with physical geography.]

[Footnote 67: Sir Charles Lyell (1797-1875): a British geologist, and one of the first to uphold
Darwin's Origin of Species.]

[Footnote 68: Echinus: the sea-urchin; an animal which dwells in a spheroidal shell built up
from polygonal plates, and covered with sharp spines.]

[Footnote 69: Somme: a river of northern France which flows into the English Channel northeast
of Dieppe.]

[Footnote 70: the chipped flints of Hoxne and Amiens: the rude instruments which were made
by primitive man were of chipped flint. Numerous discoveries of large flint implements have
been made in the north of France, near Amiens, and in England. The first noted flint implements
were discovered in Hoxne, Suffolk, England, 1797. Cf. Evans' Ancient Stone Implements and Lyell's
Antiquity of Man.]

[Footnote 71: Rev. Mr. Gunn (1800-1881): an English naturalist. Mr. Gunn sent from Tasmania
a large number of plants and animals now in the British Museum.]

[Footnote 72: "the whirligig of time": cf. Shakespeare, Twelfth Night, Act V, se. I, l. 395.]

[Footnote 73: Euphrates and Hiddekel: cf. Genesis ii, 14.]

[Footnote 74: the great river, the river of Babylon: cf. Genesis xv, 18]

[Footnote 75: Without haste, but without rest: from Goethe's Zahme Xenien. In a letter to his
sister, Huxley says: "And then perhaps by the following of my favorite motto,--

     "'Wie das Gestirn,
     Ohne Hast,
     Ohne Rast'--

     something may be done, and some of Sister Lizzie's fond
     imaginations turn out not altogether untrue."  The quotation entire
     is as follows:--

     Wie das Gestirn,
     Ohne Hast,
     Aber ohne Rast,
     Drehe sich jeder
     Um die eigne Last.]

THE PRINCIPAL SUBJECTS OF EDUCATION (1882)

[Footnote 76: The Principal Subjects of Education: an extract from the essay, Science and Art
in Relation to Education.]

[Footnote 77: this discussion: "this" refers to the last sentence in the preceding paragraph,
in which Huxley says that it will be impossible to determine the amount of time to be given
to the principal subjects of education until it is determined "what the principal subjects
of education ought to be."]

[Footnote 78: Francis Bacon: cf. note [Footnote 26].]

[Footnote 79: the best chance of being happy: In connection with Huxley's work on the London
School Board, his biographer says that Huxley did not regard "intellectual training only from
the utilitarian point of view; he insisted, e. g., on the value of reading for amusement as
one of the most valuable uses to hardworked people."]

[Footnote 80: "Harmony in grey": cf. with l. 34 in Browning's Andrea del Sarto.]

[Footnote 81: Hobbes (1588-1679): noted for his views of human nature and of politics. According
to Minto, "The merits ascribed to his style are brevity, simplicity and precision."]

[Footnote 82: Bishop Berkeley (1685-1753): an Irish prelate noted for his philosophical writings
and especially for his theory of vision which was the foundation for modern investigations
of the subject. "His style has always been esteemed admirable; simple, felicitous and sweetly
melodious. His dialogues are sustained with great skill." Minto's Manual of English Prose Literature.]

[Footnote 83: We have been recently furnished with in prose: The Iliad of Homer translated
by Lang, Leaf and Myers, the first edition of which appeared in 1882, is probably the one to
which Huxley refers. The Odyssey, translated by Butcher and Lang, appeared in 1879. Among the
best of the more recent translations of Homer are the Odyssey by George Herbert Palmer; the
Iliad by Arthur S. Way, and the Odyssey by the same author.]

[Footnote 84: Locke (1632-1704): an English philosopher of great influence. His chief work
is An Essay Concerning Human Understanding.]

[Footnote 85: Franciscus Bacon sic cogitavit: thus Francis Bacon thought.]

THE METHOD OF SCIENTIFIC INVESTIGATION (1863)

[Footnote 86: The Method of Scientific Investigation is an extract from the third of six lectures
given to workingmen on The Causes of the Phenomena of Organic Nature in Darwiniana.]

[Footnote 87: these terrible apparatus: apparatus is the form for both the singular and plural;
apparatuses is another form for the plural.]

[Footnote 88: Incident in one of Moliere's plays: the allusion is to the hero, M. Jourdain
in the play, "La Bourgeois Gentilbomme."]

[Footnote 89: these kind: modern writers regard kind as singular. Shakespeare treated it as
a plural noun, as "These kind of knaves I knew."]

[Footnote 90: Newton: cf. [Footnote 30].]

[Footnote 91: Laplace (1749-1827): a celebrated French astronomer and mathematician. He is
best known for his theory of the formation of the planetary systems, the so-called "nebular
hypothesis." Until recently this hypothesis has generally been accepted in its main outlines.
It is now being supplanted by the "Spiral Nebular Hypothesis" developed by Professors Moulton
and Chamberlin of the University of Chicago. See Moulton's Introduction to Astronomy, p. 463.]

ON THE PHYSICAL BASIS OF LIFE (1868)

[Footnote 92: On the Physical Basis of Life: from Methods and Results; also published in Lay
Sermons, Addresses and Reviews. "The substance of this paper was contained in a discourse which
was delivered in Edinburgh on the evening of Sunday, the 8th of November, 1868--being the first
of a series of Sunday evening addresses upon non-theological topics, instituted by the Rev.
J. Cranbrook. Some phrases, which could possess only a transitory and local interest, have
been omitted; instead of the newspaper report of the Archbishop of York's address, his Grace's
subsequently published pamphlet On the Limits of Philosophical inquiry is quoted, and I have,
here and there, endeavoured to express my meaning more fully and clearly than I seem to have
done in speaking--if I may judge by sundry criticisms upon what I am supposed to have said,
which have appeared. But in substance, and, so far as my recollection serves, in form, what
is here written corresponds with what was there said."--Huxley.]

[Footnote 93: Finner whale: a name given to a whale which has a dorsal fin. A Finner whale
commonly measures from 60 to 90 feet in length.]

[Footnote 94: A fortiori: with stronger reason: still more conclusively.]

[Footnote 95: well-known epigram: from Goethe's Venetianische Epigramme. The following is a
translation of the passage: Why do the people push each other and shout? They want to work
for their living, bring forth children; and feed them as well as they possibly can. . . . No
man can attain to more, however much he may pretend to the contrary.]

[Footnote 96: Maelstroms: a celebrated whirlpool or violent current in the Arctic Ocean, near
the western coast of Norway, between the islands of Moskenaso and Mosken, formerly supposed
to suck in and destroy everything that approached it at any time, but now known not to be dangerous
except under certain conditions. Century Dictionary. Cf. also Poe's Descent into the Maelstrom.]

[Footnote 97: Milne-Edwards (1800-1885): a French naturalist. His Elements de Zoologie won
him a great reputation.]

[Footnote 98: with such qualifications as arises: a typographical error.]

[Footnote 99: De Bary (1831-1888): a German botanist noted especially for his researches in
cryptogamic botany.]

[Footnote 100: No Man's Land: Huxley probably intends no specific geographical reference. The
expression is common as a designation of some remote and unfrequented locality.]

[Footnote 101: Kuhne (1837-1900): a German physiologist and professor of science at Amsterdam
and Heidelberg.]

[Footnote 102: Debemur morti nos nostraque: Horace--Ars Poetica, line 63.

     As forests change their foliage year by year,
     Leaves, that come first, first tall and disappear;
     So antique words die out, and in their room,
     Others spring up, of vigorous growth and bloom;
     Ourselves and all that's ours, to death are due,
     And why should words not be mortal too?

Martin's translation.]

[Footnote 103: peau de chagrin: skin of a wild ass.]

[Footnote 104: Balzac (1799-1850): a celebrated French novelist of the realistic school of
fiction.]

[Footnote 105: Barmecide feast: the allusion is to a story in the Arabian Nights in which a
member of the Barmecide family places a succession of empty dishes before a beggar, pretending
that they contain a rich repast.]

[Footnote 106: modus operandi: method of working.]

[Footnote 107: Martinus Scriblerus: a reference to Memoirs of Martinus Scriblerus written principally
by John Arbuthnot, and published in 1741. The purpose of the papers is given by Warburton and
Spence in the following extracts quoted from the Preface to the Memoirs of the Extraordinary
Life, Works and Discoveries of Martinus Scriblerus in Elwin and Courthope's edition of Pope's
works, vol. x, p. 273:-- "Mr. Pope, Dr. Arbuthnot, and Dr. Swift, in conjunction, formed the
project of a satire on the abuses of human learning; and to make it better received, proposed
to execute it in the manner of Cervantes (the original author of this species of satire) under
a continued narrative of feigned adventures. They had observed that those abuses still kept
their ground against all that the ablest and gravest authors could say to discredit them; they
concluded, therefore, the force of ridicule was wanting to quicken their disgrace; and ridicule
was here in its place, when the abuses had been already detected by sober reasoning; and truth
in no danger to suffer by the premature use of so powerful an instrument."]

"The design of this work, as stated by Pope himself, is to ridicule all the false tastes in
learning under the character of a man of capacity enough, that had dipped into every art and
science, but injudiciously in each. It was begun by a club of some of the greatest wits of
the age--Lord Oxford, the Bishop of Rochester, Pope, Congreve, Swift, Arbuthnot, and others.
Gay often held the pen; and Addison liked it very well, and was not disinclined to come into it."]

[Footnote 108: accounted for the operation of the meat-jack: from the paper "To the learned
inquisitor into nature, Martinus Scriblerus: the society of free thinkers greeting." Elwin
and Courthope, Pope's works, vol. ?, p. 332.]

[Footnote 109: The remainder of the essay endeavors to meet the charge of materialism. The
essay was published in 1870.]

[Footnote 111: Sic et curalium: Thus also the coral, as soon as it touches the air turns hard.
It was a soft plant under the water.]

[Footnote 112: Boccone (1633-1704): a noted Sicilian naturalist.]

[Footnote 113: Marsigli (1658-1730): an Italian soldier and naturalist. He wrote A Physical
History of the Sea.]

[Footnote 114: "Traite du Corail": "I made the coral bloom in vases full of sea-water, and
I noticed that what we believe to be the flower of this so-called plant was in reality only
an insect similar to a little nettle or polype. I had the pleasure to see the paws or feet
of this nettle move, and having placed the vase full of water in which the coral was, near
the fire, at a moderate heat, all the little insects expanded, the nettle stretched out its
feet and formed what M. de Marsigli and I had taken for the petals of the flower. The calyx
of this so-called flower is the very body of the animal issued from its cell."]

[Footnote 115: Reaumur (1683-1757): a French physiologist and naturalist, best known as the
inventor of the Reaumur thermometer. He was a member of the French Academy of Science.]

[Footnote 116: Bishop Wilson: Thomas Wilson (1663-1755), bishop of the Isle of Man. Details
of his life are given in the folio edition of his works (1782). An appreciation of his religious
writings is given by Matthew Arnold in Culture and Anarchy. Bishop Wilson's words, "To make
reason and the will of God prevail," are the theme of Arnold's essay, Sweetness and Light.]

[Footnote 117: An eminent modern writer: Matthew Arnold (1822-1888), eldest son of Thomas Arnold,
headmaster of Rugby; a distinguished critic and poet, and professor of poetry at Oxford. The
allusion is to Arnold's essay, Sweetness and Light. The phrase, "sweetness and light," is one
which Aesop uses in Swift's Battle of the Books to sum up the superiority of the ancients over
the moderns. "As for us, the ancients, we are content, with the bee, to pretend to nothing
of our own beyond our wings and our voice, that is to say, our flights and our language; for
the rest, whatever we have got has been by infinite labor and search, and ranging through every
corner of nature; the difference is, that instead of dirt and poison we have rather chose to
fill our hives with honey and wax, thus furnishing mankind with the two noblest things, which
are sweetness and light." Arnold's purpose in the essay is to define the cultured man as one
who endeavors to make beauty and intelligence prevail everywhere.]

[Footnote 118: Abbe Trembley (1700-1784): a Swiss naturalist. He wrote "Memoires pour servir
a l'histoire d'un genre de polypes d'eau douce, a bras en forme de cornes."]

[Footnote 119: Bernard de Jussieu (1699-1776): a French botanist; founder of the natural classification
of plants. He was superintendent of the Trianon Gardens.]

[Footnote 120: Guettard (1715-1786): a French naturalist.]

[Footnote 121: Monte Nuovo within the old crater of Somma: Monte Nuovo, a mountain west of
Naples; Somma, a mountain north of Vesuvius which with its lofty, semicircular cliff encircles
the active cone of Vesuvius.]

[Footnote 122: Mauritius: an island in the Indian Ocean; Huxley visited the island when on
the voyage with the Rattlesnake. He wrote to his mother of his visit: "This island is, you
know, the scene of Saint Pierre's beautiful story of Paul and Virginia, over which I suppose
most people have sentimentalized at one time or another of their lives. Until we reached here
I did not know that the tale was like the lady's improver--a fiction founded on fact, and that
Paul and Virginia were at one time flesh and blood, and that their veritable dust was buried
at Pamplemousses in a spot considered as one of the lions of the place, and visited as classic
ground."]

[Footnote 123: Mr. Darwin's coral reefs: The Structure and Distribution of Coral Reefs, published
in 1848.]

[Footnote 124: Professor Jukes (1811-1869): an English geologist.]

[Footnote 125: Mr. Dana (1813-1895): a well-known American geologist and mineralogist; a professor
at Yale from 1845. He wrote a number of books among which is Coral and Coral Reefs.]

[Footnote 126: Jurassic period: that part of the geological series which is older than the
Cretaceous and newer than the Triassic; so called from the predominance of rocks of this age
in the Jura Mountains. The three great divisions of fossiliferous rocks are called the Triassic,
the Jurassic, and the Cretaceous.]

REFERENCE BOOKS

The following reference books are suggested for a more complete treatment of various points
in the text:--Andrews' History of England. Green's Short History of the English People. Traill's
Social England. Roger's A Student's History of Philosophy. Royce's The Spirit of Modern Philosophy.
Huxley's Life and Letters. Smalley's Mr. Huxley, in Scribner's Magazine for October, 1905.
Darwin's Life and Letters.

