Mr. Leigh, who is well known as the publisher of the best English guides all over the continent,
has just added to their number a Panorama of the Rhine and the adjacent country, from Cologne
to Mayence, with maps of the routes from London to Cologne, and from thence to the sources
of the Rhine. The Panorama is designed from nature by F.W. Delkeskamp, and engraved by John
Clark. It consists of a beautiful aqua-tint engraving, upwards of seven feet in length, and
six inches in width, representing the course of the Rhine, and its picturesque banks, studded
with towns and villages; whilst steam-boats, bridges, and islets are distinctly shown in the
river. It would be difficult to convey to our readers an idea of the extreme delicacy with
which the plate is engraved; and, to speak dramatically, the entire success of the representation.
A more interesting or useful companion for the tourist could scarcely be conceived; for the
picture is not interrupted by the names of the places, but these are judiciously introduced
in the margins of the plate. In short, every town, village, fortress, convent, mansion, mountain,
dale, field, and forest, are here represented. By way of Supplement to the Plate, a Steam-boat
Companion is appended, describing the principal places on the Rhine, with the population, curiosities,
inns, &c. We passed an hour over the engraving very agreeably, coasting along till we actually
fancied ourselves in one of the apartments of the Hotel of Darmstadt at Mayence, when missing
our high conic bumper of Rudesheim--we found our thanks were due to the artist for the luxury
of the illusion. The Panorama folds up in a neat portfolio, and occupies little more room than
a quire of letter paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

EDINBURGH IN SUMMER.

A' The lumms smokeless! No ae jack turnin' a piece o' roastin' beef afore ae fire in ony ae
kitchen in a' the New Toon! Streets and squares a' grass-grown, sae that they micht be mawn!
Shops like bee-hives that hae de'd in wunter! Coaches settin' aff for Stirlin', and Perth,
and Glasgow, and no ae passenger either inside or out--only the driver keepin' up his heart
wi' flourishin' his whup, and the guard, sittin' in perfect solitude, playin' an eerie spring
on his bugle-horn! The shut-up play-house a' covered ower wi' bills that seem to speak o' plays
acted in an antediluvian world! Here, perhaps, a leevin' creter, like ane emage, staunin' at
the mouth o' a close, or hirplin' alang, like the last relic o' the plague. And oh! but the
stane-statue o' the late Lord Melville, staunin' a' by himsell up in the silent air, a hunder-and-fifty
feet high, has then a ghastly seeming in the sky, like some giant condemned to perpetual imprisonment
on his pedestal, and mournin' ower the desolation of the city that in life he loved so well.--Noctes--Blackwood's
Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

NAVARINO.

A Correspondent has sent us a copy of some "Stanzas written in Commemoration of the Battle
of Navarin," written by A. Grassie, piper on board H.M.S. Glasgow, R.N.--or "by a sailor in
the engagement." One of the twelve stanzas is as follows:--

  To save the sacrifice of life,
    Was valiant Codrington's design;
  And for those Turks it had been good.
    If to his terms they would incline:
  They fired upon the Dartmouth's boat,
    And killed some of its gallant men;
  But that distinguished frigate had
    Complete revenge at Navarin.

This specimen of nautical numbers reminds us of Addison's suggestion for setting the Chelsea
and Greenwich pensioners to write accounts of the battles in which they had served; and we
hope others will follow Mr. Grassie's example in these piping times of peace.

       *       *       *       *       *

CARVING AND GILDING.

A point of some importance in the internal decoration of palatial houses, viz. the introduction
of "ornaments of the age of Louis XIV." is now canvassing among connoisseurs, or rather among
those who direct the public taste. Some of our readers are probably aware that the mansion
built for the late Duke of York, and Crockford's Club-house, are embellished in this style,
which, to say the best, is gorgeous and expensive, without displaying good taste. We ought
to leave such matters to the classical Mr. T. Hope, who has written a folio volume on "Household
Furniture and Internal Decorations;" or the Carvers, Gilders, and Cabinet-Makers' Societies
might sit in council on the subject. The question is interesting to all lovers of the fine
arts, and to men of taste generally.

       *       *       *       *       *

Is there any thing in this?

"It were no preposterous conceit to affirm, that nature typifies in each individual man the
several offices and orders which our commonwealth distributes to the several ranks and functionaries
of the state. There are the Operative Energies, Talents, Passions, Appetites, good servants
all, but bad masters, useful citizens, always to be controlled, but never oppressed, and most
effective when they are neither pampered nor starved. There, too, is the Executive Will; Prudence,
Chancellor of the Exchequer; Self-love, minister for the Home Department; Observation, Secretary
of Foreign Affairs; Poetry, over the Woods and Forests; Lord Keeper Conscience, a sage, scrupulous,
hesitating, head-shaking, hair-splitting personage, whose decisions are most just, but too
slow to be useful, and who is the readier to weep for what is done, than to direct what should
be done; Wit, Manager of the House of Commons, a flashy, either-sided gentleman, who piques
himself on never being out; and Self-Denial, always eager to vacate his seat and accept the
Chiltern Hundreds."--Blackwood's Mag.

       *       *       *       *       *

MAN.

Man is so pugnacious an animal, that even the quakers, who in all other things seem effectually
to have subdued this part of their animal nature, carry on controversy, whenever they engage
in it, tooth and nail.--Quarterly Rev.

       *       *       *       *       *

RETROSPECTIVE GLEANINGS,

       *       *       *       *       *

GLEANINGS ON GLUTTONY.

Against Voracitie and immoderate drinking, instanced by sundry histories.

Vitellius, an Emperour of Rome, was among divers other his notorious vices so luxuriously given,
that at one supper he was served with two thousand fishes of divers kindes, and seven thousand
flying foules; he was afterward drawne through the streets with a halter about his neck, and
shamefully put to death.

But what shall we wonder at emperours prodigalities, when of later yeares a simple Franciscan
frier, Peter de Ruere, after hee had attained to the dignitie of cardinall by the favour of
the pope, his kinsman, hee spent in two yeares, in which he lived at Rome, in feasts and banquets,
two hundred thousand crownes, besides his debts, which were as much more.

In our time Muleasses, King of Tunis, was so drowned in pleasures, that being expelled from
his kingdome for his vices, after his returne from Germanie, being denyed of ayd hee sought
of the Emperour Charles the Fifth, he spent an hundred crownes upon the dressing of a peacocke
for his owne mouth. And that hee might with more pleasure heare musicke, he used to cover his
eyes.--But the judgment of God fell upon him; for his sone or brother dispossessed him of his
kingdome, and provided him a remedie that his sight should be no longer annoyance to his hearing,
causing his eyes to be put out with a burning hot iron. He that is given to please his senses,
and delighteth in the excesse of eating and drinking, may, as Sallust saith, bee called animal,
for hee is unworthy the name of a man. For wherin can a man more resemble brute beasts, and
degenerate from his angelicall nature, than to serve his belly and his senses? But if our predecessors
exceeded us in superfluitie of meats, wee can compare and goe beyond them in drinking and quaffing.

King Edgar so much detested this vice of drunkennesse, that hee set an order that no man should
drinke beyond a certaine ring, made round about the glasses and cups, of purpose for a marke.

Anacharsis saith, that the first draught is to quench the thirst, the second for nourishment,
the third for pleasure, the fourth for madnesse.

Augustine Lercheimer reporteth a strange historie of three quaffers in Germany, in the yeare
one thousand five hundred and fortie nine; these three companions were in such a jollity after
they had taken in their cups, according to the brutish manner of that countrey, that with a
coale they painted the divell on the wall, and dranke freely to him, and talked to him as though
hee had been present. The next morning they were found strangled, and dead, and were buried
under the gallowes.

Surfeits maketh worke many times for the physician, who turning R into D giveth his patient
sometime a Decipe for a Recipe; and so payeth deerely for his travell that hastneth him to
his end. Horace calleth such men that give themselves to their belly, a beast of Arcadia that
devoureth the grasse of the earth.

Cornelius Celsus giveth this counsell when men come to meat: Nunquam utilis nimia satietatis,
saepe inutilis nimia abstinentia; over-much satiety is never good, over-much abstinence is
often hurtfull.

Mahomet desirous to draw men to the liking of him and his doctrine, and perceiving the pronenesse
of men to luxuriousness and fleshly pleasures, yet dealt more craftily in his Alcoran, than
to persuade them that felicitie consisted in the voluptuousenesse and pleasures of this life,
which he knew would not be believed nor followed but of a few, and those the more brutish sort,
but threatened them with a kind of hell, and gave them precepts tending somewhat more to civilitie
and humanitie, and promised his followers a paradise in the life to come, wherin they should
enjoy all maner of pleasures which men desire in this world; as faire gardens environed with
pleasant rivers, sweet flowers, all kinde of odoriferous savours, most delicate fruits, tables
furnished with most daintie meats, and pleasant wines served in vessels of gold, &c. &c.

The Egyptians had a custome not unmeet to bee used at the carousing banquets; their manner
was, in the middest of their feasts to have brought before them anatomie of a dead body dried,
that the sight and horror thereof putting them in minde to what passe themselves should one
day come, might containe them in modesty. But peradventure things are fallen so far from their
right course, that that device will not so well serve the turne, as if the carousers of these
later daies were persuaded, as Mahomet persuaded his followers when hee forbad them the drinking
of wine, that in every grape there dwelt a divell. But whun they have taken in their cups,
it seemeth that many of them doe feare neither the divell nor any thing else.

