For purposes of illustration and elucidation, and even for amplitude of vocabulary, wealth
of accumulated materials is essential; and whether this wealth be won by reading or by experience
makes no great difference. Coleridge attended Davy's chemical lectures to acquire new metaphors,
and it is of no consequence whether one comes to literature from a library, a machine-shop,
or a forecastle, provided he has learned to work with thoroughness the soil he knows. After
all is said and done, however, books remain the chief quarries. Addison collected three folios
of materials before publishing the first number of the "Spectator." Remember, however, that
copious preparation has its perils also, in the crude display to which it tempts. The object
of high culture is not to exhibit culture, but its results. You do not put guano on your garden
that your garden may blossom guano. Indeed, even for the proper subordination of one's own
thoughts the same self-control is needed; and there is no severer test of literary training
than in the power to prune out one's most cherished sentence, when it grows obvious that the
sacrifice will help the symmetry or vigor of the whole.

Be noble both in the affluence and the economy of your diction; spare no wealth that you can
put in, and tolerate no superfluity that can be struck out. Remember the Lacedemonian who was
fined for saying that in three words which might as well have been expressed in two. Do not
throw a dozen vague epithets at a thing, in the hope that some one of them will fit; but study
each phrase so carefully that the most ingenious critic cannot alter it without spoiling the
whole passage for everybody but himself. For the same reason do not take refuge, as was the
practice a few years since, in German combinations, heart-utterances, soul-sentiments, and
hyphenized phrases generally; but roll your thought into one good English word. There is no
fault which seems so hopeless as commonplaceness, but it is really easier to elevate the commonplace
than to reduce the turgid. How few men in all the pride of culture can emulate the easy grace
of a bright woman's letter!

Have faith enough in your own individuality to keep it resolutely down for a year or two. A
man has not much intellectual capital who cannot treat himself to a brief interval of modesty.
Premature individualism commonly ends either in a reaction against the original whims, or in
a mannerism which perpetuates them. For mannerism no one is great enough, because, though in
the hands of a strong man it imprisons us in novel fascination, yet we soon grow weary, and
then hate our prison forever. How sparkling was Reade's crisp brilliancy in "Peg Woffington"!--but
into what disagreeable affectations it has since degenerated! Carlyle was a boon to the human
race, amid the lameness into which English style was declining; but who is not tired of him
and his catchwords now? He was the Jenner of our modern style, inoculating and saving us all
by his quaint frank Germanism, then dying of his own disease. Now the age has outgrown him,
and is approaching a mode of writing which unites the smoothness of the eighteenth century
with the vital vigor of the seventeenth, so that Sir Thomas Browne and Andrew Marvell seem
quite as near to us as Pope or Addison,--a style penetrated with the best spirit of Carlyle,
without a trace of Carlylism.

Be neither too lax nor too precise in your use of language: the one fault ends in stiffness,
the other in slang. Some one told the Emperor Tiberius that he might give citizenship to men,
but not to words. To be sure, Louis XIV. in childhood, wishing for a carriage, called for mon
carrosse, and made the former feminine a masculine to all future Frenchmen. But do not undertake
to exercise these prerogatives of royalty until you are quite sure of being crowned. The only
thing I remember of our college text-book of Rhetoric is one admirable verse of caution which
it quoted:--

  "In words, as fashions, the same rule will hold,
  Alike fantastic, if too new or old;
  Be not the first by whom the new are tried,
  Nor yet the last to lay the old aside."

Especially do not indulge any fantastic preference for either Latin or Anglo-Saxon, the two
great wings on which our magnificent English soars and sings; we can spare neither. The combination
gives an affluence of synonymes and a delicacy of discrimination such as no unmixed idiom can show.

While you utterly shun slang, whether native-or foreign-born,--(at present, by the way, our
popular writers use far less slang than the English,)--yet do not shrink from Americanisms,
so they be good ones. American literature is now thoroughly out of leading-strings; and the
nation which supplied the first appreciative audience for Carlyle, Tennyson, and the Brownings,
can certainly trust its own literary instincts to create the new words it needs. To be sure,
the inelegancies with which we are chiefly reproached are not distinctively American: Burke
uses "pretty considerable"; Miss Burney says, "I trembled a few"; the English Bible says "reckon,"
Locke has "guess," and Southey "realize," in the exact senses in which one sometimes hears
them used colloquially here. Nevertheless such improprieties are of course to be avoided; but
whatever good Americanisms exist, let us hold to them by all means. The diction of Emerson
alone is a sufficient proof, by its unequalled range and precision, that no people in the world
ever had access to a vocabulary so rich and copious as we are acquiring. To the previous traditions
and associations of the English tongue we add resources of contemporary life such as England
cannot rival. Political freedom makes every man an individual; a vast industrial activity makes
every man an inventor, not merely of labor-saving machines, but of labor-saving words; universal
schooling popularizes all thought and sharpens the edge of all language. We unconsciously demand
of our writers the same dash and the same accuracy which we demand in railroading or dry-goods-jobbing.
The mixture of nationalities is constantly coining and exchanging new felicities of dialect:
Ireland, Scotland, Germany, Africa are present everywhere with their various contributions
of wit and shrewdness, thought and geniality; in New York and elsewhere one finds whole thoroughfares
of France, Italy, Spain, Portugal; on our Western railways there are placards printed in Swedish;
even China is creeping in. The colonies of England are too far and too provincial to have had
much reflex influence on her literature, but how our phraseology is already amplified by our
relations with Spanish-America! The life-blood of Mexico flowed into our newspapers while the
war was in progress; and the gold of California glitters in our primer: Many foreign cities
may show a greater variety of mere national costumes, but the representative value of our immigrant
tribes is far greater from the very fact that they merge their mental costume in ours. Thus
the American writer finds himself among his phrases like an American sea-captain amid his crew:
a medley of all nations, waiting for the strong organizing New-England mind to mould them into
a unit of force.

There are certain minor matters, subsidiary to elegance, if not elegancies, and therefore worth
attention. Do not habitually prop your sentences on crutches, such as Italics and exclamation-points,
but make them stand without aid; if they cannot emphasize themselves, these devices are commonly
but a confession of helplessness. Do not leave loose ends as you go on, straggling things,
to be caught up and dragged along uneasily in foot-notes, but work them all in neatly, as Biddy
at her bread-pan gradually kneads in all the outlying bits of dough, till she has one round
and comely mass.

Reduce yourself to short allowance of parentheses and dashes; if you employ them merely from
clumsiness, they will lose all their proper power in your hands. Economize quotation-marks
also, clear that dust from your pages, assume your readers to be acquainted with the current
jokes and the stock epithets: all persons like the compliment of having it presumed that they
know something, and prefer to discover the wit or beauty of your allusion without a guide-board.

The same principle applies to learned citations and the results of study. Knead these thoroughly
in, supplying the maximum of desired information with a minimum of visible schoolmaster. It
requires no pedantic mention of Euclid to indicate a mathematical mind, but only the habitual
use of clear terms and close connections. To employ in argument the forms of Whately's Logic
would render it probable that you are juvenile and certain that you are tedious; wreathe the
chain with roses. The more you have studied foreign languages, the more you will be disposed
to keep Ollendorff in the background: the proper result of such acquirements is visible in
a finer ear for words; so that Goethe said, the man who had studied but one language could
not know that one. But spare the raw material; deal as cautiously in Latin as did General Jackson
when Jack Downing was out of the way; and avoid French as some fashionable novelists avoid English.

Thus far, these are elementary and rather technical suggestions, fitted for the very opening
of your literary career. Supposing you fairly in print, there are needed some further counsels.

Do not waste a minute, not a second, in trying to demonstrate to others the merit of your own
performance. If your work does not vindicate itself, you cannot vindicate it, but you can labor
steadily on to something which needs no advocate but itself. It was said of Haydon, the English
artist, that, if he had taken half the pains to paint great pictures that he took to persuade
the public he had painted them, his fame would have been secure. Similar was the career of
poor Horne, who wrote the farthing epic of "Orion" with one grand line in it, and a prose work
without any, on "The False Medium excluding Men of Genius from the Public." He spent years
in ineffectually trying to repeal the exclusion in his own case, and has since manfully gone
to the grazing regions in Australia, hoping there at least to find the sheep and the goats
better discriminated. Do not emulate these tragedies. Remember how many great writers have
created the taste by which they were enjoyed, and do not be in a hurry. Toughen yourself a
little, and perform something better. Inscribe above your desk the words of Rivarol, "Genius
is only great patience." It takes less time to build an avenue of shingle palaces than to hide
away unseen, block by block, the vast foundation-stones of an observatory. Most by-gone literary
fames have been very short-lived in America, because they have lasted no longer than they deserved.
Happening the other day to recur to a list of Cambridge lyceum-lecturers in my boyish days,
I find with dismay that the only name now popularly remembered is that of Emerson: death, oblivion,
or a professorship has closed over all the rest, while the whole standard of American literature
has been vastly raised meanwhile, and no doubt partly through their labors. To this day, some
of our most gifted writers are being dwarfed by the unkind friendliness of too early praise.
It was Keats, the most precocious of all great poets, the stock victim of critical assassination,--though
the charge does him utter injustice,--who declared that "nothing is finer for purposes of production
than a very gradual ripening of the intellectual powers."

Yet do not be made conceited by obscurity, any more than by notoriety. Many fine geniuses have
been long neglected; but what would become of us, if all the neglected were to turn out geniuses?
It is unsafe reasoning from either extreme. You are not necessarily writing like Holmes because
your reputation for talent began in college, nor like Hawthorne because you have been before
the public ten years without an admirer. Above all, do not seek to encourage yourself by dwelling
on the defects of your rivals: strength comes only from what is above you. Northcote, the painter,
said, that, in observing an inferior picture, he always felt his spirits droop, with the suspicion
that perhaps he deceived himself and his own paintings were no better; but the works of the
mighty masters always gave him renewed strength, in the hope that perhaps his own had in their
smaller way something of the same divine quality.

Do not complacently imagine, because your first literary attempt proved good and successful,
that your second will doubtless improve upon it. The very contrary sometimes happens. A man
dreams for years over one projected composition, all his reading converges to it, all his experience
stands related to it, it is the net result of his existence up to a certain time, it is the
cistern into which he pours his accumulated life. Emboldened by success, he mistakes the cistern
for a fountain, and instantly taps his brain again. The second production, as compared with
the first, costs but half the pains and attains but a quarter part of the merit; a little more
of fluency and facility perhaps,--but the vigor, the wealth, the originality, the head of water,
in short, are wanting. One would think that almost any intelligent man might write one good
thing in a lifetime, by reserving himself long enough: it is the effort after quantity which
proves destructive. The greatest man has passed his zenith, when he once begins to cheapen
his style of work and sink into a book-maker: after that, though the newspapers may never hint
at it, nor his admirers own it, the decline of his career is begun.

Yet the author is not alone to blame for this, but also the world which first tempts and then
reproves him. Goethe says, that, if a person once does a good thing, society forms a league
to prevent his doing another. His seclusion is gone, and therefore his unconsciousness and
his leisure; luxuries tempt him from his frugality, and soon he must toil for luxuries; then,
because he has done one thing well, he is urged to squander himself and do a thousand things
badly. In this country especially, if one can learn languages, he must go to Congress; if he
can argue a case, he must become agent of a factory: out of this comes a variety of training
which is very valuable, but a wise man must have strength to call in his resources before middle-life,
prune off divergent activities, and concentrate himself on the main work, be it what it may.
It is shameful to see the indeterminate lives of many of our gifted men, unable to resist the
temptations of a busy land, and so losing themselves in an aimless and miscellaneous career.

Yet it is unjust and unworthy in Marsh to disfigure his fine work on the English language by
traducing all who now write that tongue. "None seek the audience, fit, though few, which contented
the ambition of Milton, and all writers for the press now measure their glory by their gains,"
and so indefinitely onward,--which is simply cant. Does Sylvanus Cobb, Jr., who honestly earns
his annual five thousand dollars from the "New York Ledger," take rank as head of American
literature by virtue of his salary? Because the profits of true literature are rising,--trivial
as they still are beside those of commerce or the professions,--its merits do not necessarily
decrease, but the contrary is more likely to happen; for in this pursuit, as in all others,
cheap work is usually poor work. None but gentlemen of fortune can enjoy the bliss of writing
for nothing and paying their own printer. Nor does the practice of compensation by the page
work the injury that has often been ignorantly predicted. No contributor need hope to cover
two pages of a periodical with what might be adequately said in one, unless he assumes his
editor to be as foolish as himself. The Spartans exiled Ctesiphon for bragging that he could
speak the whole day on any subject selected; and a modern magazine is of little value, unless
it has a Spartan at its head.

Strive always to remember--though it does not seem intended that we should quite bring it home
to ourselves--that "To-Day is a king in disguise," and that this American literature of ours
will be just as classic a thing, if we do our part, as any which the past has treasured. There
is a mirage over all literary associations. Keats and Lamb seem to our young people to be existences
as remote and legendary as Homer, yet it is not an old man's life since Keats was an awkward
boy at the door of Hazlitt's lecture-room, and Lamb was introducing Talfourd to Wordsworth
as his own only admirer. In reading Spence's "Anecdotes," Pope and Addison appear no farther
off; and wherever I open Bacon's "Essays," I am sure to end at last with that one magical sentence,
annihilating centuries, "When I was a child, and Queen Elizabeth was in the flower of her years."

And this imperceptible transformation of the commonplace present into the storied past applies
equally to the pursuits of war and to the serenest works of peace. Be not misled by the excitements
of the moment into overrating the charms of military life. In this chaos of uniforms, we seem
to be approaching times such as existed in England after Waterloo, when the splenetic Byron
declared that the only distinction was to be a little undistinguished. No doubt, war brings
out grand and unexpected qualities, and there is a perennial fascination in the Elizabethan
Raleighs and Sidneys, alike heroes of pen and sword. But the fact is patent, that there is
scarcely any art whose rudiments are so easy to acquire as the military; the manuals of tactics
have no difficulties comparable to those of the ordinary professional text-books; and any one
who can drill a boat's crew or a ball-club can learn in a very few weeks to drill a company
or even a regiment. Given in addition the power to command, to organize, and to execute,--high
qualities, though not rare in this community,--and you have a man needing but time and experience
to make a general. More than this can be acquired only by an exclusive absorption in this one
art; as Napoleon said, that, to have good soldiers, a nation must be always at war.

If, therefore, duty and opportunity call, count it a privilege to obtain your share in the
new career; throw yourself into it as resolutely and joyously as if it were a summer-campaign
in the Adirondack, but never fancy for a moment that you have discovered any grander or manlier
life than you might be leading every day at home. It is not needful here to decide which is
intrinsically the better thing, a column of a newspaper or a column of attack, Wordsworth's
"Lines on Immortality" or Wellington's Lines of Torres Vedras; each is noble, if nobly done,
though posterity seems to remember literature the longest. The writer is not celebrated for
having been the favorite of the conqueror, but sometimes the conqueror only for having favored
or even for having spurned the writer. "When the great Sultan died, his power and glory departed
from him, and nothing remained but this one fact, that he knew not the worth of Ferdousi."
There is a slight delusion in this dazzling glory. What a fantastic whim the young lieutenants
thought it, when General Wolfe, on the eve of battle, said of Gray's "Elegy," "Gentlemen, I
would rather have written that poem than have taken Quebec." Yet, no doubt, it is by the memory
of that remark that Wolfe will live the longest,--aided by the stray line of another poet,
still reminding us, not needlessly, that "Wolfe's great name's cotemporal with our own."

Once the poets and the sages were held to be pleasing triflers, fit for hours of relaxation
in the lulls of war. Now the pursuits of peace are recognized as the real, and war as the accidental.
It interrupts all higher avocations, as does the cry of fire: when the fire is extinguished,
the important affairs of life are resumed. Six years ago the London "Times" was bewailing that
all thought and culture in England were suspended by the Crimean War. "We want no more books.
Give us good recruits, at least five feet seven, a good model for a floating-battery, and a
gun to take effect at five thousand yards,--and Whigs and Tories, High and Low Church, the
poets, astronomers, and critics, may settle it among themselves." How remote seems that epoch
now! and how remote will the present soon appear! while art and science will resume their sway
serene, beneath skies eternal. Yesterday I turned from treatises on gunnery and fortification
to open Milton's Latin Poems, which I had never read, and there, in the "Sylvarum Liber," I
came upon a passage as grand as anything in "Paradise Lost,"--his description of Plato's archetypal
man, the vast ideal of the human race, eternal, incorrupt, coeval with the stars, dwelling
either in the sidereal spaces, or among the Lethean mansions of souls unborn, or pacing the
unexplored confines of the habitable globe. There stood the majestic image, veiled in a dead
language, yet still visible; and it was as if one of the poet's own sylvan groves had been
suddenly cut down, and opened a view of Olympus. Then all these present fascinating trivialities
of war and diplomacy ebbed away, like Greece and Rome before them, and there seemed nothing
real in the universe but Plato's archetypal man.

Indeed, it is the same with all contemporary notorieties. In all free governments, especially,
it is the habit to overrate the dramatis personae of the hour. How empty to us are now the
names of the great politicians of the last generation, as Crawford and Lowndes!--yet it is
but a few years since these men filled in the public ear as large a space as Clay or Calhoun
afterwards, and when they died, the race of the giants was thought ended. The path to oblivion
of these later idols is just as sure; even Webster will be to the next age but a mighty tradition,
and all that he has left will seem no more commensurate with his fame than will his statue
by Powers. If anything preserves the statesmen of to-day, it will be only because we are coming
to a contest of more vital principles, which may better embalm the men. Of all gifts, eloquence
is the most short-lived. The most accomplished orator fades forgotten, and his laurels pass
to some hoarse, inaudible Burke, accounted rather a bore during his lifetime, and possessed
of a faculty of scattering, not convincing, the members of the House. "After all," said the
brilliant Choate, with melancholy foreboding, "a book is the only immortality."

So few men in any age are born with a marked gift for literary expression, so few of this number
have access to high culture, so few even of these have the personal nobleness to use their
powers well, and this small band is finally so decimated by disease and manifold disaster,
that it makes one shudder to observe how little of the embodied intellect of any age is left
behind. Literature is attar of roses, one distilled drop from a million blossoms. Think how
Spain and Portugal once divided the globe between them in a treaty, when England was a petty
kingdom of illiterate tribes!--and now all Spain is condensed for us into Cervantes, and all
Portugal into the fading fame of the unread Camoens. The long magnificence of Italian culture
has left us only I Quattro Poeti, the Four Poets. The difference between Shakspeare and his
contemporaries is not that he is read twice, ten times, a hundred times as much as they: it
is an absolute difference; he is read, and they are only printed.

Yet, if our life be immortal, this temporary distinction is of little moment, and we may learn
humility, without learning despair, from earth's evanescent glories. Who cannot bear a few
disappointments, if the vista be so wide that the mute inglorious Miltons of this sphere may
in some other sing their Paradise as Found? War or peace, fame or forgetfulness, can bring
no real injury to one who has formed the fixed purpose to live nobly day by day. I fancy that
in some other realm of existence we may look back with some kind interest on this scene of
our earlier life, and say to one another,--"Do you remember yonder planet, where once we went
to school?" And whether our elective study here lay chiefly in the fields of action or of thought
will matter little to us then, when other schools shall have led us through other disciplines.

       *       *       *       *       *

JOHN LAMAR.

The guard-house was, in fact, nothing but a shed in the middle of a stubble-field. It had been
built for a cider-press last summer; but since Captain Dorr had gone into the army, his regiment
had camped over half his plantation, and the shed was boarded up, with heavy wickets at either
end, to hold whatever prisoners might fall into their hands from Floyd's forces. It was a strong
point for the Federal troops, his farm,--a sort of wedge in the Rebel Cheat counties of Western
Virginia. Only one prisoner was in the guard-house now. The sentry, a raw boat-hand from Illinois,
gaped incessantly at him through the bars, not sure if the "Secesh" were limbed and headed
like other men; but the November fog was so thick that he could discern nothing but a short,
squat man, in brown clothes and white hat, heavily striding to and fro. A negro was crouching
outside, his knees cuddled in his arms to keep warm: a field-hand, you could be sure from the
face, a grisly patch of flabby black, with a dull eluding word of something, you could not
tell what, in the points of eyes,--treachery or gloom. The prisoner stopped, cursing him about
something: the only answer was a lazy rub of the heels.

"Got any 'baccy, Mars' John?" he whined, in the middle of the hottest oath.

The man stopped abruptly, turning his pockets inside out.

"That's all, Ben," he said, kindly enough. "Now begone, you black devil!"

"Dem's um, Mars'! Goin' 'mediate,"--catching the tobacco, and lolling down full length as his
master turned off again.

Dave Hall, the sentry, stared reflectively, and sat down.

"Ben? Who air you next?"--nursing his musket across his knees, baby-fashion.

Ben measured him with one eye, polished the quid in his greasy hand, and looked at it.

"Pris'ner o' war," he mumbled, finally,--contemptuously; for Dave's trousers were in rags like
his own, and his chilblained toes stuck through the shoe-tops. Cheap white trash, clearly.

"Yer master's some at swearin'. Heow many, neow, hes he like you, down to Georgy?"

The boatman's bony face was gathering a woful pity. He had enlisted to free the Uncle Toms,
and carry God's vengeance to the Legrees. Here they were, a pair of them.

Ben squinted another critical survey of the "miss'able Linkinite."

"How many wells hev yer poisoned since yer set out?" he muttered.

The sentry stopped.

"How many 'longin' to de Lamars? 'Bout as many as der's dam' Yankees in Richmond 'baccy-houses!"

Something in Dave's shrewd, whitish eye warned him off.

"Ki yi! yer white nigger, yer!" he chuckled, shuffling down the stubble.

Dave clicked his musket,--then, choking down an oath into a grim Methodist psalm, resumed his
walk, looking askance at the coarse-moulded face of the prisoner peering through the bars,
and the diamond studs in his shirt,--bought with human blood, doubtless. The man was the black
curse of slavery itself in the flesh, in his thought somehow, and he hated him accordingly.
Our men of the Northwest have enough brawny Covenanter muscle in their religion to make them
good haters for opinion's sake.

Lamar, the prisoner, watched him with a lazy drollery in his sluggish black eyes. It died out
into sternness, as he looked beyond the sentry. He had seen this Cheat country before; this
very plantation was his grandfather's a year ago, when he had come up from Georgia here, and
loitered out the summer months with his Virginia cousins, hunting. That was a pleasant summer!
Something in the remembrance of it flashed into his eyes, dewy, genial; the man's leather-covered
face reddened like a child's. Only a year ago,--and now----The plantation was Charley Dorr's
now, who had married Ruth. This very shed he and Dorr had planned last spring, and now Charley
held him a prisoner in it. The very thought of Charley Dorr warmed his heart. Why, he could
thank God there were such men. True grit, every inch of his little body! There, last summer,
how he had avoided Ruth until the day when he (Lamar) was going away!--then he told him he
meant to try and win her. "She cared most for you always," Lamar had said, bitterly; "why have
you waited so long?" "You loved her first, John, you know." That was like a man! He remembered
that even that day, when his pain was breathless and sharp, the words made him know that Dorr
was fit to be her husband.

Dorr was his friend. The word meant much to John Lamar. He thought less meanly of himself,
when he remembered it. Charley's prisoner! An odd chance! Better that than to have met in battle.
He thrust back the thought, the sweat oozing out on his face,--something within him muttering,
"For Liberty! I would have killed him, so help me God!"

He had brought despatches to General Lee, that he might see Charley, and the old place, and--Ruth
again; there was a gnawing hunger in his heart to see them. Fool! what was he to them? The
man's face grew slowly pale, as that of a savage or an animal does, when the wound is deep
and inward.

The November day was dead, sunless: since morning the sky had had only enough life in it to
sweat out a few muddy drops, that froze as they fell: the cold numbed his mouth as he breathed
it. This stubbly slope was where he and his grandfather had headed the deer: it was covered
with hundreds of dirty, yellow tents now. Around there were hills like uncouth monsters, swathed
in ice, holding up the soggy sky; shivering pine-forests; unmeaning, dreary flats; and the
Cheat, coiled about the frozen sinews of the hills, limp and cold, like a cord tying a dead
man's jaws. Whatever outlook of joy or worship this region had borne on its face in time gone,
it turned to him to-day nothing but stagnation, a great death. He wondered idly, looking at
it, (for the old Huguenot brain of the man was full of morbid fancies,) if it were winter alone
that had deadened color and pulse out of these full-blooded hills, or if they could know the
colder horror crossing their threshold, and forgot to praise God as it came.

Over that farthest ridge the house had stood. The guard (he had been taken by a band of Snake-hunters,
back in the hills) had brought him past it. It was a heap of charred rafters. "Burned in the
night," they said, "when the old Colonel was alone." They were very willing to show him this,
as it was done by his own party, the Secession "Bush-whackers"; took him to the wood-pile to
show him where his grandfather had been murdered, (there was a red mark,) and buried, his old
hands above the ground. "Colonel said 't was a job fur us to pay up; so we went to the village
an' hed a scrimmage,"--pointing to gaps in the hedges where the dead Bush-whackers yet lay
unburied. He looked at them, and at the besotted faces about him, coolly.

Snake-hunters and Bush-whackers, he knew, both armies used in Virginia as tools for rapine
and murder: the sooner the Devil called home his own, the better. And yet, it was not God's
fault, surely, that there were such tools in the North, any more than that in the South Ben
was--Ben. Something was rotten in freer States than Denmark, he thought.

One of the men went into the hedge, and brought out a child's golden ringlet as a trophy. Lamar
glanced in, and saw the small face in its woollen hood, dimpled yet, though dead for days.
He remembered it. Jessy Birt, the ferryman's little girl. She used to come up to the house
every day for milk. He wondered for which flag she died. Ruth was teaching her to write. Ruth!
Some old pain hurt him just then, nearer than even the blood of the old man or the girl crying
to God from the ground. The sergeant mistook the look. "They'll be buried," he said, gruffly.
"Ye brought it on yerselves." And so led him to the Federal camp.

The afternoon grew colder, as he stood looking out of the guard-house. Snow began to whiten
through the gray. He thrust out his arm through the wicket, his face kindling with childish
pleasure, as he looked closer at the fairy stars and crowns on his shaggy sleeve. If Floy were
here! She never had seen snow. When the flakes had melted off, he took a case out of his pocket
to look at Floy. His sister,--a little girl who had no mother, nor father, nor lover, but Lamar.
The man among his brother officers in Richmond was coarse, arrogant, of dogged courage, keen
palate at the table, as keen eye on the turf. Sickly little Floy, down at home, knew the way
to something below all this: just as they of the Rommany blood see below the muddy boulders
of the streets the enchanted land of Boabdil bare beneath. Lamar polished the ivory painting
with his breath, remembering that he had drunk nothing for days. A child's face, of about twelve,
delicate,--a breath of fever or cold would shatter such weak beauty; big, dark eyes, (her mother
was pure Castilian,) out of which her little life looked irresolute into the world, uncertain
what to do there. The painter, with an unapt fancy, had clustered about the Southern face the
Southern emblem, buds of the magnolia, unstained, as yet, as pearl. It angered Lamar, remembering
how the creamy whiteness of the full-blown flower exhaled passion of which the crimsonest rose
knew nothing,--a content, ecstasy, in animal life. Would Floy----Well, God help them both!
they needed help. Three hundred souls was a heavy weight for those thin little hands to hold
sway over,--to lead to hell or heaven. Up North they could have worked for her, and gained
only her money. So Lamar reasoned, like a Georgian: scribbling a letter to "My Baby" on the
wrapper of a newspaper,--drawing the shapes of the snowflakes,--telling her he had reached
their grandfather's plantation, but "have not seen our Cousin Ruth yet, of whom you may remember
I have told you, Floy. When you grow up, I should like you to be just such a woman; so remember,
my darling, if I"----He scratched the last words out: why should he hint to her that he could
die? Holding his life loose in his hand, though, had brought things closer to him lately,--God
and death, this war, the meaning of it all. But he would keep his brawny body between these
terrible realities and Floy, yet awhile. "I want you," he wrote, "to leave the plantation,
and go with your old maumer to the village. It will be safer there." He was sure the letter
would reach her. He had a plan to escape to-night, and he could put it into a post inside the
lines. Ben was to get a small hand-saw that would open the wicket; the guards were not hard
to elude. Glancing up, he saw the negro stretched by a camp-fire, listening to the gaunt boatman,
who was off duty. Preaching Abolitionism, doubtless: he could hear Ben's derisive shouts of
laughter. "And so, good bye, Baby Florence!" he scrawled. "I wish I could send you some of
this snow, to show you what the floor of heaven is like."

While the snow fell faster--without, he stopped writing, and began idly drawing a map of Georgia
on the tan-bark with a stick. Here the Federal troops could effect a landing: he knew the defences
at that point. If they did? He thought of these Snake-hunters who had found in the war a peculiar
road for themselves downward with no gallows to stumble over, fancied he saw them skulking
through the fields at Cedar Creek, closing around the house, and behind them a mass of black
faces and bloody bayonets. Floy alone, and he here,--like a rat in a trap! "God keep my little
girl!" he wrote, unsteadily. "God bless you, Floy!" He gasped for breath, as if he had been
writing with his heart's blood. Folding up the paper, he hid it inside his shirt and began
his dogged walk, calculating the chances of escape. Once out of this shed, he could baffle
a blood-hound, he knew the hills so well.

His head bent down, he did not see a man who stood looking at him over the wicket. Captain
Dorr. A puny little man, with thin yellow hair, and womanish face: but not the less the hero
of his men,--they having found out, somehow, that muscle was not the solidest thing to travel
on in war-times. Our regiments of "roughs" were not altogether crowned with laurel at Manassas!
So the men built more on the old Greatheart soul in the man's blue eyes: one of those souls
born and bred pure, sent to teach, that can find breath only in the free North. His hearty
"Hillo!" startled Lamar.

"How are you, old fellow?" he said, unlocking the gate and coming in.

Lamar threw off his wretched thoughts, glad to do it. What need to borrow trouble? He liked
a laugh,--had a lazy, jolly humor of his own. Dorr had finished drill, and come up, as he did
every day, to freshen himself with an hour's talk to this warm, blundering fellow. In this
dismal war-work, (though his whole soul was in that, too,) it was like putting your hands to
a big blaze. Dorr had no near relations; Lamar--they had played marbles together--stood to
him where a younger brother might have stood. Yet, as they talked, he could not help his keen
eye seeing him just as he was.

Poor John! he thought: the same uncouth-looking effort of humanity that he had been at Yale.
No wonder the Northern boys jeered him, with his sloth-ways, his mouthed English, torpid eyes,
and brain shut up in that worst of mud-moulds,--belief in caste. Even now, going up and down
the tan-bark, his step was dead, sodden, like that of a man in whose life God had not yet wakened
the full live soul. It was wakening, though, Dorr thought. Some pain or passion was bringing
the man in him out of the flesh, vigilant, alert, aspirant. A different man from Dorr.

In fact, Lamar was just beginning to think for himself, and of course his thoughts were defiant,
intolerant. He did not comprehend how his companion could give his heresies such quiet welcome,
and pronounce sentence of death on them so coolly. Because Dorr had gone farther up the mountain,
had he the right to make him follow in the same steps? The right,--that was it. By brute force,
too? Human freedom, eh? Consequently, their talks were stormy enough. To-day, however, they
were on trivial matters.

"I've brought the General's order for your release at last, John. It confines you to this district,
however."

Lamar shook his head.

"No parole for me! My stake outside is too heavy for me to remain a prisoner on anything but
compulsion. I mean to escape, if I can. Floy has nobody but me, you know, Charley."

There was a moment's silence.

