As soon as he was fairly on shore, Paine took sides with his host, and commenced writing "Letters
to the People of the United States." He announced in them that he was a genuine Federalist,--not
one of that disguised faction which had arisen in America, and which, losing sight of first
principles, had begun to contemplate the people as hereditary property: No wonder that the
author of the "Rights of Man" was attacked by this faction: His arrival was to them like the
sight of water to canine madness: He served them for a standing dish of abuse: The leaders
during the Reign of Terror in France and during the late despotism in America were the same
men in character; for how else was it to be accounted for that he was persecuted by both at
the same time? In every part of the Union this faction was in the agonies of death, and, in
proportion as its fate approached, gnashed its teeth and struggled: He should lose half his
greatness when they ceased to lie. Mr. Adams, as the late chief of this faction, met with harsh
and derisive treatment in these letters, and did not attempt to conceal his irritation in his
own later correspondence.

Paine's few defenders tried to back him with weak paragraphs in the daily papers: His great
talents, his generous services, "in spite of a few indiscreet writings about religion," should
make him an object of interest and respect. The "Aurora's" own correspondent sent to his paper
a favorable sketch of Paine's appearance, manner, and conversation: He was "proud to find a
man whom he had admired free from the contaminations of debauchery and the habits of inebriety
which have been so grossly and falsely sent abroad concerning him." But the enemy had ten guns
to Paine's one, and served them with all the fierceness of party-hate. A shower of abusive
missiles rattled incessantly about his ears. However thick-skinned a man may be, and protected
over all by the oes triplex of self-sufficiency, he cannot escape being wounded by furious
and incessant attacks. Paine felt keenly the neglect of his former friends, who avoided him,
when they did not openly cut him. Mr. Jefferson, it is true, asked him to dinners, and invited
the British minister to meet him; at least, the indignant Anglo-Federal editors said so. Perhaps
he offered him an office. If he did, Paine refused it, preferring "to serve as a disinterested
volunteer." Poor old man! his services were no longer of much use to anybody. The current of
American events had swept past him, leaving him stranded, a broken fragment of a revolutionary
wreck.

When the nine days of wonder had expired in Washington, and the inhabitants had grown tired
of staring at Paine and of pelting him with abuse, he betook himself to New York. On his way
thither, he met with an adventure which shows the kind of martyrdom suffered by this political
and religious heretic. He had stopped at Bordentown, in New Jersey, to look at a small place
he owned there, and to visit an old friend and correspondent, Colonel Kirkbride. When he departed,
the Colonel drove him over to Trenton to take the stage-coach. But in Trenton the Federal and
Religious party had the upperhand, and when Paine applied at the booking-office for a seat
to New York the agent refused to sell him one. Moreover, a crowd collected about his lodgings,
who groaned dismally when he drove away with his friend, while a band of musicians, provided
for the occasion, played the Rogue's March.

Among the editorial celebrities of 1803, James Cheetham, in New York, was almost as famous
as Duane of the "Aurora." Cheetham, like many of his contemporaries, Gray, Carpenter, Callender,
and Duane himself, was a British subject. He was a hatter in his native land; but a turn for
politics ruined his business and made expatriation convenient. In the United States, he had
become the editor of the "American Citizen," and was at that time busily engaged in attacking
the Federalists and Burr's "Little Band," for their supposed attempt to elect Mr. Burr in the
place of Mr. Jefferson. To Cheetham, accordingly, Paine wrote, requesting him to engage lodgings
at Lovett's, afterwards the City Hotel. He sent for Cheetham, on the evening of his arrival.
The journalist obeyed the summons immediately. This was the first interview between Paine and
the man who was to hang, draw, and quarter his memory in a biography. This libellous performance
was written shortly after Paine's death. It was intended as a peace-offering to the English
government. The ex-hatter had made up his mind to return home, and he wished to prove the sincerity
of his conversion from radicalism by trampling on the remains of its high-priest. So long as
Cheetham remained in good standing with the Democrats, Paine and he were fast friends; but
when he became heretical and schismatic on the Embargo question, some three or four years later,
and was formally read out of the party, Paine laid the rod across his back with all his remaining
strength. He had vigor enough left, it seems, to make the "Citizen" smart, for Cheetham cuts
and stabs with a spite which shows that the work was as agreeable to his feelings as useful
to his plans. His reminiscences must be read multis cum granis.

In New York Paine enjoyed the same kind of second-rate ovation as in Washington. A great number
of persons called upon him, but mostly of the laboring class of emigrants, who had heard of
the "Rights of Man," and, feeling disposed to claim as many rights as possible in their new
country, looked with reverence upon the inventor of the system. The Democratic leaders, with
one or two exceptions, avoided Paine. Respectabilities shunned him as a contamination. Grant
Thorburn was suspended from church-membership for shaking hands with him. To the boys he was
an object of curious attention; his nose was the burden of their songs.

Cheetham carried round a subscription-list for a public dinner. Sixty or seventy of Paine's
admirers attended. It went off brilliantly, and was duly reported in the "American Citizen."
Then the effervescence of New York curiosity subsided; Paine became an old story. He left Lovett's
Hotel for humble lodgings in the house of a free-thinking farrier. Thenceforward the tale of
his life is soon told. He went rarely to his farm at New Rochelle; he disliked the country
and the trouble of keeping house; and a bullet which whizzed through his window one Christmas
Eve, narrowly missing his head, did not add agreeable associations to the place. In the city
he moved his quarters from one low boarding-house to another, and generally managed to quarrel
with the blacksmiths, bakers, and butchers, his landlords. Unable to enjoy society suited to
his abilities and large experience of life, Paine called in low company to help him bear the
burden of existence. To the men who surrounded him, his opinions on all subjects were conclusive,
and his shrewd sayings revelations. Among these respectful listeners, he had to fear neither
incredulity nor disputation. Like his friend Elihu Palmer, and the celebrated Dr. Priestley,
Paine would not tolerate contradiction. To differ with him was, in his eyes, simply to be deficient
in understanding. He was like the French lady who naïvely told Dr. Franklin, "Je ne trouve
que moi qui aie toujours raison." Professing to adore Reason, he was angry, if anybody reasoned
with him. But herein he was no exception to the general rule,--that we find no persons so intolerant
and illiberal as men professing liberal principles.

His occupation and amusement was to write for the papers articles of a somewhat caustic and
personal nature. Whatever subject occupied the public mind interested Paine and provoked his
remarks. He was bitter in his attacks upon the Federalists and Burrites for attempting to jockey
Jefferson out of the Presidency. Later, when Burr was acquitted of treason, Paine found fault
with Chief-Justice Marshall for his rulings during the trial, and gave him notice, that he
(Marshall) was "a suspected character." He also requested Dr. Mitchell, then United States
Senator for New York, to propose an amendment to the Constitution, authorizing the President
to remove a judge, on the address of a majority of both houses of Congress, for reasonable
cause, when sufficient grounds for impeachment might not exist. General Miranda's filibustering
expedition against Caracas, a greater failure even than the Lopez raid on Cuba, furnished Paine
with a theme. He wrote a sensible paper on the yellow fever, by request of Jefferson, and one
or two on his iron bridge. He was ardent in the defence of Mr. Jefferson's pet scheme of a
gun-boat navy, and ridiculed the idea of fortifying New York. "The cheapest way," he said,
"to fortify New York will be to banish the scoundrels that infest it." The inhabitants of that
city would do well, if they could find an engineer to fortify their island in this way.

When the Pennsylvanians called a Convention in 1805 to amend the Constitution of the State,
Paine addressed them at some length, giving them a summary of his views on Government, Constitutions,
and Charters. The Creoles of Louisiana sent to Congress a memorial of their "rights," in which
they included the importation of African slaves. It is manifest that Paine could not be a Democrat
in good standing now. Mingled with these graver topics were side-blows at the emissary Cullen,
alias Carpenter, an Englishman, who edited a Federal paper,--replies to Cheetham, reprimands
to Cheetham, and threats to prosecute Cheetham for lying, "unless he makes a public apology,"--and
three letters to Governor Morgan Lewis, who had incensed Paine by bringing an action for political
libel against a Mr. Thomas Farmer, laying his damages at one hundred thousand dollars.

Among his last productions were two memorials to the House of Representatives. One can see
in these papers that old age had weakened his mind, and that harsh treatment had soured his
feelings towards the land of his adoption.

  "Ma république à jamais grande et libre,
  Cette terre d'amour et d'égalité,"

no longer seemed to him as lovely as when he composed these verses for a Fourth-of-July dinner
in Paris. He claimed compensation for his services in Colonel Laurens's mission to France in
1781. For his works he asked no reward. "All the civilized world knows," he writes, "I have
been of great service to the United States, and have generously given away talents that would
have made me a fortune. The country has been benefited, and I make myself happy in the knowledge
of it. It is, however, proper for me to add, that the mere independence of America, were it
to have been followed by a system of government modelled after the corrupt system of the English
government, would not have interested me with the unabated ardor it did." "It will be convenient
to me to know what Congress will decide on, because it will determine me, whether, after so
many years of generous services and that in the most perilous times, and after seventy years
of age, I shall continue in this country, or offer my services to some other country. It will
not be to England, unless there should be a revolution."

The memorial was referred to the Committee on Claims. When Paine heard of its fate, he addressed
an indignant letter to the Speaker of the House. "I know not who the Committee on Claims are;
but if they were men of younger standing than 'the times that tried men's souls,' and consequently
too young to know what the condition of the country was at the time I published 'Common Sense,'--for
I do not believe that independence would have been declared, had it not been for the effect
of that work,--they are not capable of judging of the whole of the services of Thomas Paine.
If my memorial was referred to the Committee on Claims for the purpose of losing it, it is
unmanly policy. After so many years of service, my heart grows cold towards America."

His heart was soon to grow cold to all the world. In the spring of 1809, it became evident
to Paine's attendants that his end was approaching. As death drew near, the memories of early
youth arose vividly in his mind. He wished to be buried in the cemetery of the Quakers, in
whose principles his father had educated him. He sent for a leading member of the sect to ask
a resting-place for his body in their ground. The request was refused.

When the news got abroad that the Arch-Infidel was dying, foolish old women and kindred clergymen,
who "knew no way to bring home a wandering sheep but by worrying him to death," gathered together
about his bed. Even his physician joined in the hue-and-cry. It was a scene of the Inquisition
adapted to North America,--a Protestant auto da fé. The victim lay helpless before his persecutors;
the agonies of disease supplied the place of rack and fagot. But nothing like a recantation
could be wrung from him. And so his tormentors left him alone to die, and his freethinking
smiths and cobblers rejoiced over his fidelity to the cause.

He was buried on his farm at New Rochelle, according to his latest wishes. "Thomas Paine. Author
of 'Common Sense,'" the epitaph he had fixed upon, was carved upon his tomb. A better one exists
from an unknown hand, which tells, in a jesting way, the secret of the sorrows of his later life:--

  "Here lies Tom Paine, who wrote in liberty's defence,
  And in his 'Age of Reason' lost his 'Common Sense.'"

Ten years after, William Cobbett, who had left England in a fit of political disgust and had
settled himself on Long Island to raise hogs and ruta-bagas, resolved to go home again. Cobbett
had become an admirer, almost a disciple of Paine. The "Constitution-grinder" of '96 was now
"a truly great man, a truly philosophical politician, a mind as far superior to Pitt and Burke
as the light of a flambeau is superior to that of a rush-light." Above all, Paine had been
Cobbett's teacher on financial questions. In 1803, Cobbett read his "Decline and Fall of the
English System," and then "saw the whole matter in its true light; and neither pamphleteers
nor speech-makers were after that able to raise a momentary puzzle in his mind." Perhaps Cobbett
thought he might excite a sensation in England and rally about him the followers of Paine,
or it may be that he wished to repair the gross injustice he had done him by some open act
of adherence; at all events, he exhumed Paine's body and took the bones home with him in 1819,
with the avowed intention of erecting a magnificent monument to his memory by subscription.
In the same manner, about two thousand two hundred and fifty years ago, the bones of Theseus,
the mythical hero of Democracy, were brought from Skyros to Athens by some Attic [Greek: Kobbetaes].
The description of the arrival in England we quote from a Liverpool journal of the day:--"When
his last trunk was opened at the Custom-House, Cobbett observed to the surrounding spectators,
who had assembled in great numbers,--'Here are the bones of the late Thomas Paine.' This declaration
excited a visible sensation, and the crowd pressed forward to see the contents of the package.
Cobbett remarked,--'Great, indeed, must that man have been whose very bones attract such attention!'
The officer took up the coffin-plate inscribed, 'Thomas Paine, Aged 72. Died January 8, 1809,'
and, having lifted up several of the bones, replaced the whole and passed them. They have since
been forwarded from this town to London."

At a public dinner given to Cobbett in Liverpool, Paine was toasted as "the Noble of Nature,
the Child of the Lower Orders"; but the monument was never raised, and no one knows where his
bones found their last resting-place.

Cobbett himself gained nothing by this resurrectionist performance, except an additional couplet
in the party-songs of the day:--

  "Let Cobbett of borough-corruption complain,
  And go to the De'il with the bones of Tom Paine."

The two were classed together by English Conservatives, as "pestilent fellows" and "promoters
of sedition."

It is now fifty years since Paine died; but the nil de mortuis is no rule in his case. The
evil associations of his later days have pursued him beyond the grave. A small and threadbare
sect of "liberals," as they call themselves,--men in whom want of skill, industry, and thrift
has produced the usual results,--have erected an altar to Thomas Paine, and, on the anniversary
of his birth, go through with a pointless celebration, which passes unnoticed, unless in an
out-of-the-way corner of some newspaper. In this class of persons, irreligion is a mere form
of discontent. They have no other reason to give for the faith which is not in them. They like
to ascribe their want of success in life to something out of joint in the thoughts and customs
of society, rather than to their own shortcomings or incapacity. In France, such persons would
be Socialists and Rouges; in this country, where the better classes only have any reason to
rebel, they cannot well conspire against government, but attack religion instead, and pride
themselves on their exemption from prejudice. The "Age of Reason" is their manual. Its bold,
clear, simple statements they can understand; its shallowness they are too ignorant to perceive;
its coarseness is in unison with their manners. Thus the author has become the Apostle of Free-thinking
tinkers and the Patron Saint of unwashed Infidelity.

To this generation at large, he is only an indistinct shadow,--a faint reminiscence of a red
nose,--an ill-flavored name, redolent of brandy and of brimstone, his beverage in life and
his well-earned punishment in eternity, which suggests to the serious mind dirt, drunkenness,
and hopeless damnation. Mere worldlings call him "Tom Paine," in a tone which combines derision
and contempt. A bust of him, by Jarvis, in the possession of the New York Historical Society,
is kept under lock and key, because it was defaced and defiled by visitors, while a dozen other
plaster worthies that decorate the institution remained intact. Nevertheless, we suspect that
most of our readers, if they cannot date back to the first decade of the century, will find,
when they sift their information, that they have only a speaking acquaintance with Thomas Paine,
and can give no good reason for their dislike of him.

And it is not easy for the general reader to become intimate with him. He will find him, of
course, in Biographical Dictionaries, Directories of the City of the Great Dead, which only
tell you where men lived, and what they did to deserve a place in the volume; but as to a life
of him, strictly speaking, there is none. Oldys and Cobbett tried to flay him alive in pamphlets;
Sherwin and Clio Rickman were prejudiced friends and published only panegyrics. All are out
of print and difficult to find. Cheetham's work is a political libel; and the attempt of Mr.
Vail of the "Beacon" to canonize him in the "Infidel's Calendar," cannot be recommended to
intelligent persons. We might expect to meet with him in those books of lives so common with
us,--collections in which a certain number of deceased gentlemen are bound up together, so
resembling each other in feature that one might suppose the narratives ground out by some obituary-machine
and labelled afterward to suit purchasers. Even this "sign-post biography," as the "Quarterly"
calls it, Paine has escaped. He was not a marketable commodity. There was no demand for him
in polite circles. The implacable hand of outraged orthodoxy was against him. Hence his memory
has lain in the gutter. Even his friend Joel Barlow left him out of the "Columbiad," to the
great disgust of Clio Rickman, who thought his name should have appeared in the Fifth Book
between Washington and Franklin. Surely Barlow might have found room for him in the following
"Epic List of Heroes":--

  "Wythe, Mason, Pendleton, with Henry joined,
  Rush, Rodney, Langdon, friends of humankind,
  Persuasive Dickinson, the farmer's boast,
  Recording Thompson, pride of all the host,
  Nash, Jay, the Livingstons, in council great,
  Rutledge and Laurens, held the rolls of fate."

But no! Neither author nor authorling liked to have his name seen in company with Thomas Paine.
And when a curious compiler has taken him up, he has held him at arm's length, and, after eyeing
him cautiously, has dropped him like some unclean and noxious animal.

Sixty years ago, Paine's friends used to say, that, "in spite of some indiscreet writings on
the subject of religion," he deserved the respect and thanks of Americans for his services.
We think that he deserves something more at the present day than this absolute neglect. There
is stuff enough in him for one volume at least. His career was wonderful, even for the age
of miraculous events he lived in. In America, he was a Revolutionary hero of the first rank,
who carried letters in his pocket from George Washington, thanking him for his services. And
he managed besides to write his radical name in large letters in the History of England and
of France. As a mere literary workman, his productions deserve notice. In mechanics, he invented
and put up the first iron bridge of large span in England; the boldness of the attempt still
excites the admiration of engineers. He may urge, too, another claim to our attention. In the
legion of "most remarkable men" these United States have produced or imported, only three have
achieved infamy: Arnold, Burr, and Paine. What are Paine's titles to belong to this trio of
disreputables? Only these three: he wrote the "Age of Reason"; was a Democrat, perhaps an unusually
dirty one; and drank more brandy than was good for him. The "Age of Reason" is a shallow deistical
essay, in which the author's opinions are set forth, it is true, in a most offensive and irreverent
style. As Dr. Hopkins wrote of Ethan Allen,--

  "One hand was clenched to batter noses,
  While t'other scrawled 'gainst Paul and Moses."

But who reads it now? On the other hand, no one who has studied Paine's career can deny his
honesty and his disinterestedness; and every unprejudiced reader of his works must admit not
merely his great ability in urging his opinions, but that he sincerely believed all he wrote.
Let us, then, try to forget the carbuncled nose, the snuffy waistcoat, the unorthodox sneer.
We should wipe out his later years, cut his life short at 1796, and take Paine when he wrote
"Common Sense," Paine when he lounged at the White Bear in Piccadilly, talking over with Horne
Tooke the answer to Mr. Burke's "Reflections," and Paine, when, as "foreign benefactor of the
species," he took his seat in the famous French Convention.

