THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. XIII, No. 358.] SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1829. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

YORK TERRACE,

REGENT'S PARK.

If the reader is anxious to illustrate any political position with the "signs of the times,"
he has only to start from Waterloo-place, (thus commencing with a glorious reminiscence,) through
Regent-street and Portland-place, and make the architectural tour of the Regent's Park. Entering
the park from the New Road by York Gate, one of the first objects for his admiration will be
York Terrace, a splendid range of private residences, which has the appearance of an unique
palace. This striking effect is produced by all the entrances being in the rear, where the
vestibules are protected by large porches. All the doors and windows in the principal front
represented in the engraving are uniform, and appear like a suite of princely apartments, somewhat
in the style of a little Versailles. This idea is assisted by the gardens having no divisions.

The architecture of the building is Græco-Italian. It consists of an entrance or ground story,
with semicircular headed windows and rusticated piers. A continued pedestal above the arches
of these windows runs through the composition, divided between the columns into balustrades,
in front of the windows of the principal story, to which they form handsome balconies. The
elegant windows of this and the principal chamber story are of the Ilissus Ionic, and are decorated
with a colonnade, completed with a well-proportioned entablature from the same beautiful order.
Mr. Elmes, in his critical observations on this terrace, thinks the attic story "too irregular
to accompany so chaste a composition as the Ionic, to which it forms a crown;" he likewise
objects to the cornice and blocking-course, as being "also too small in proportion for the
majesty of the lower order."

York Terrace is from the design of Mr. Nash, whose genius not unfrequently strays into such
errors as our architectural critic has pointed out.

       *       *       *       *       *

VALENTINE CUSTOMS.

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

As some of the customs described by your correspondent W.H.H.[1] are left unaccounted for,
I suppose any one is at liberty to sport a few conjectures on the subject. May not, for instance,
the practice of burning the "holly boy" have its origin in some of those rustic incantations
described by Theocritus as the means of recalling a truant lover, or of warming a cold one;
and thus translated:--

    [1] See No. 356 of the MIRROR, "Valentine's Day."

  "First Delphid injured me, he raised my flame,
  And now I burn this bough in Delphid's name."

Virgil, too, in his 8th Eclogue, alludes to the same charm:--

  "Sparge molam, et fragiles incende bitumine lauros;
  Daphnis me malus urit, ego hanc in Daphnide laurum."

  "Next in the fire the bays with brimstone burn,
  And whilst it crackles in the sulphur, say,
  This I for Daphnis burn, thus Daphnis burn away."
                                   DRYDEN.

The "holly bush" being made to represent the person beloved, may also be borrowed from the
ancients:--

  -------------------"Terque hæc altaria circum
  Effigiem duco."
                                      VIRGIL.

  "Thrice round the altar I the image draw."

The burning wax candles may be more difficult to account for, unless it refer to the custom
of melting wax in order to mollify the beloved one's heart:--

  "As this devoted wax melts o'er the fire,
  Let Myndian Delphis melt with soft desire."
                                    THEOCRITUS.

  ---------------"Hæc ut cera liquescit."
  -------------"Sic nostro Daphnis amore."
                                   VIRGIL.

For a woman to compose a garland was always considered an indication of her being in love.
Aristophanes says,

  "The wreathing garlands in a woman is
  The usual symptom of a love-sick mind."

Should the charms resorted to by lovers two thousand years ago, appear to you, even remotely,
to have influenced the love rites as performed by the village men and maidens of the present
day, perhaps you may deem this string of quotations worthy of a corner in your amusing miscellany.

E.

       *       *       *       *       *

LINES

On the Sarcophagus[2] which contains the remains of Nelson in St. Paul's Cathedral.

(For the Mirror.)

  To mark th' excess of priestly pow'r
  To keep in mind that gorgeous hour,
  Thou art no Popish monument,
  Altho' by Wolsey thou wer't sent,
  From thine own native Italy
  To tell where his proud ashes lie.
  To thee a nobler part is given!
  A prouder task design'd by heav'n!
  'Tis thine the sea chief's grave to shroud,
  Idol and wonder of the crowd!
  The bravest heart that ever stood
  The shock of battle on the flood!
  The stoutest arm that ever led
  A warrior o'er the ocean's bed!
  Whose name long dreaded on the sea
  Alone secured the victory!
  His Britain sea-girt stood alone,
  Whilst all the earth was heard to moan,
  Beneath war's iron--iron rod,
  Trusting in Nelson as her god.--CYMBELINE.

    [2] See MIRROR, No. 306, p 234.

       *       *       *       *       *

COINAGE OF THE ANCIENT BRITONS.

(For the Mirror.)

In 1749, a considerable number of gold coins were discovered on the top of Karnbre, in Cornwall,
which are clearly proved to have belonged to the ancient Britons. The figures that were first
stamped on the coins of all nations were those of oxen, horses, sheep, &c. It may, therefore,
be concluded, that the coins of any country which have only the figures of cattle stamped on
them, and perhaps of trees, representing the woods in which their cattle pastured,--were the
most ancient coins of the country. Some of the gold coins found at Karnbre, and described by
Dr. Borlase, are of this kind, and may be justly esteemed the most ancient of our British coins.
Sovereigns soon became aware of the importance of money, and took the fabrication of it under
their own direction, ordering their own heads to be impressed on one side of the coins, while
the figure of some animal still continued to be stamped on the other. Of this kind are some
of the Karnbre coins, with a royal head on one side, and a horse on the other. When the knowledge
and use of letters were once introduced into any country, it would not be long before they
appeared on its coins, expressing the names of the princes whose heads were stamped on them.
This was a very great improvement in the art of coining, and gave an additional value to the
money, by preserving the memories of princes, and giving light to history. Our British ancestors
were acquainted with this improvement before they were subdued by the Romans, as several coins
of ancient Britain have very plain and perfect inscriptions, and on that account merit particular
attention.

INA.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANIMAL FOOD.

(For the Mirror.)

It is generally allowed, that a profusion of animal food has a tendency to vitiate and debase
the nature and dispositions of men; notwithstanding, the lovers of flesh urge the names of
many of the most eminent in literature and science, in opposition to this assertion.

Plutarch attributed the stupidity of his countrymen, the Boeotians, to the profusion of animal
food which they consumed, and even now, our lovely, soup drinking, coffee sipping friends on
the continent, attribute the saturnine, melancholy, and bearish dispositions of John Bull,
to his partiality for,

  "The famous roast-beef of Old England."

A facetious, philosophical, friend of mine, lately amused me with some remarks, on the nature
and properties of different kinds of food. "We know," said he, "that one herb produces this
effect, and another that; that different species and varieties of plants have different virtues;
and, why may we not infer that the same rule extends to animated nature; that our fish, flesh,
and fowl, not only serve as nutriment, but that each kind possesses peculiar and individual
properties."

This will account for the piggish habits and propensities so conspicuous in the inhabitants
of certain places in England, and whose partiality for swine's flesh, is proverbial. The sheepish
manners of our students and school-boys, may also be attributed to the mutton so generally
alloted to them. I might continue my observations, ad infinitum. I might say, that the wisdom
of the goose was discoverable in--whose love of that, "most abused of God's creatures," is
well known: and that the sea-side predilections of a certain Bart., of festive notoriety, were
occasioned by his partiality for turtle.

QUÆSITOR.

       *       *       *       *       *

WHITEHALL.

MARRIAGE OF ANNE BOLEYN

(For the Mirror)

The extraordinary revolution which took place in our religious institutions in the time of
Henry VIII., has rendered his reign one of the most important in the annals of ecclesiastical
history. For the great changes at that glorious æra, the reformation, when the clouds of ignorance
and superstition were dispelled, we are principally indebted to the beauteous, but unfortunate
Anne Boleyn, whose influence with the haughty monarch, was the chief cause of the abolition
of the papal supremacy in England; one of the greatest blessings ever bestowed by a monarch
on his country. Intimately associated with, and the principal scene of these important events,
was the ancient palace of Whitehall,[3] which Henry, into whose possession it came on the premunire
of Wolsey, considerably enlarged and beautified, changing its name from that of York Place,
to the one by which it is still designated.

    [3] WHITEHALL was originally erected in the year 1243, by Hubert
        de Burgh, Earl of Kent, who bequeathed it to the House of the
        Blackfriars, near "Oldborne," where he was buried. It was
        afterwards purchased by Walter Gray, Archbishop of York, who made
        it his town residence, and at his death, left it to that See,
        whence it acquired the name of York House. Cardinal Wolsey, on
        his preferment to the Archbishoprick of York, resided here, in
        great state; but on his premunire it was forfeited (or as some
        authors assert had been previously given by him,) to the king.
        Henry VIII. made it his principal residence, and greatly enlarged
        it, the ancient and royal palace of Westminster having fallen to
        decay; at the same time he enclosed the adjoining park of St.
        James's, which appertained to this palace as well as to that of
        St. James's, which that monarch had erected on the site of an
        ancient hospital, founded before the conquest for "leprous
        sisters." For some curious details of Wolsey's magnificence and
        ostentation during his residence at York Place, we refer the
        reader to the second volume of Mr. Brayley's Londiniana.

In this building, an event, the most important, in its consequences, recorded in the history
of any country, took place,--the marriage of Anne Boleyn, who had been created Countess of
Pembroke, with the "stern Harry." The precise period of these nuptials, owing to the secrecy
with which they were performed, is involved in considerable obscurity, and has given rise to
innumerable controversies among historians; the question not being even to this hour satisfactorily
decided as to whether they were solemnized in the month of November, 1532, or in that of January,
1533. Hall,[4] Holinshed,[5] and Grafton, whose authority several of our more modern historians[6]
have followed, place it on the 14th of November, 1532, the Feast Day of St. Erkenwald; but
Stow[7] informs us, that it was celebrated on the 25th of January 1533; and his assertion bears
considerable weight, being corroborated by a letter from Archbishop Cranmer, dated "the xvij
daye of June," 1533, from his "manor of Croydon," to Hawkyns, the embassador at the emperor's
court. In this letter the prelate says, "she was marid muche about St. Paules daye last, as
the condicion thereof dothe well appere by reason she ys now sumwhat bygg with chylde."[8]
This statement, coming as it does from so authentic a source, and coinciding with the accounts
of Stow, Wyatt,[9] and Godwin[10] may, we think, be regarded as the most correct. Her marriage
was not made known until the following Easter, when it was publicly proclaimed, and preparations
made for her coronation, which was conducted with extraordinary magnificence in Whitsuntide.

    [4] Hall's "Chronicle," p. 794. edit. 1809.

    [5] Holinshed says, "he married priuilie the Lady Anne Bullougne
        the same daie, being the 14th daie of Nouember, and the feast
        daie of Saint Erkenwald; which marriage was kept so secret, that
        verie few knew it till Easter next insuing, when it was perceiued
        that she was with child."--"Chronicles," vol. iii. p. 929. edit.
        1587.

    [6] Hume and Henry place the marriage in November. Lingard and
        Sharon Turner in January.

    [7] Vide Stow's "Annals," by Howes, p. 562. edit. 1633. "King
        Henry priuily married the Lady Anne Boleigne on the fiue and
        twentieth of January, being St. Paul's daie: Mistresse Anne
        Sauage bore vp Queene Annes traine, and was herselfe shortly
        after marryed to the Lord Barkley. Doctor Rowland Lee, that
        marryed the King to Queene Anne, was made Bishop of Chester, then
        Bishop of Coventry and Lichfield, and President of Wales."

    [8] Harleian MSS. No. 6148. This letter is quoted by Burnet in
        the first volume of his "History of the Reformation:" it may be
        found printed entire in the eighteenth volume of the
        "Archæologia:" and also in the second volume of Ellis's "Original
        Letters," first series, p. 33. The MS. consists of a rough
        copy-book of the Archbishop's letters, in his own hand writing.

    [9] Wyatt's Life of "Queen Anne Boleigne." Vide Appendix to
        Cavendish's "Life of Wolsey," by Singer, vol. ii. p. 200. This
        interesting memoir was written at the close of the sixteenth
        century, (with the view of subverting the calumnies of Sanders,)
        by George Wyatt, Esq, grandson of the poet of the same name, and
        sixth son and heir of Sir Thomas Wyatt, who was decapitated in
        the reign of Queen Mary, for his insurrection.

   [10] "Annales," p. 51. edit. 1616. "Ulterioris moræ perlæsus
        Rex, Boleniam suam iam tandem Januarij 25, duxit uxorem, sed
        clauculum, & paucissimis testibus adhibitis." Polydor Virgil
        makes no mention of the period of the marriage, he only says, "in
        matrimonium duxit Annam Bulleyne, quam paulò antè amare cæperat.
        ex quâ suscepit filiam nomine Elizabeth." p. 689. edit. 1570.

   [11] Hume's "History of England," vol. iv. p 3.

Lingard, whose History is now in the course of publication, intimates that the ceremony was
performed "in a garret, at the western end of the palace of Whitehall;"[12] this, however,
when we consider the haughty character of Henry, is totally improbable, and rests entirely
on the authority of one solitary manuscript. There is no reason, however, to doubt but that
they were married in some apartment in that palace, and most probably in the king's private
closet.[13] Dr. Rowland Lee, one of the royal chaplains, and afterwards Bishop of Coventry
officiated, in the presence only of the Duke of Norfolk, uncle to the Lady Anne, and her father,
mother, and brother. Lord Herbert,[14] whose authority has been quoted by Hume, says, that
Cranmer was also present, but this is undoubtedly an error, as that prelate had only just then
returned from Germany, and was not informed of the circumstance until two weeks afterwards,
as appears from the following passage in his letter to Hawkyns, before quoted:--"Yt hath bin
reported thorowte a greate parte of the realme that I married her; which was playnly false,
for I myself knew not thereof a fortenyght after it was donne."

   [12] Lingard's "History of England," vol. iv. p. 190. 4to edit.

   [13] Vide Speed's "Annals," p. 1029.

   [14] "Life and Raigne of Henry the Eighth," p. 341. edit. 1649.

It may not, perhaps, prove uninteresting to our readers, or quite irrelevant to the subject,
to close this brief account of the marriage of Anne Boleyn, with the copy of a letter from
that queen to "Squire Josselin, upon ye birth of Q. Elizabth," preserved among the manuscripts
in the British Museum.[15]

   [15] Harleian MSS. No. 787.

"By the Queen--Trusty and well beloved wee greet you well. And whereas it hath pleased ye goodness
of Almighty God of his infinite mercy and grace to send unto vs at this tyme good speed in
ye deliverance and bringing forth of a Princess to ye great joye and inward comfort of my lord.
Us, and of all his good and loving subjects of this his realme ffor ye which his inestimable
beneuolence soe shewed unto vs. We have noe little cause to give high thankes, laude and praysing
unto our said Maker, like as we doe most lowly, humbly, and wth all ye inward desire of our
heart. And inasmuch as wee undoubtedly trust yt this our good is to you great pleasure, comfort,
and consolacion; wee therefore by these our Lrs aduertise you thereof, desiring and heartily
praying you to give wth vs unto Almighty God, high thankes, glory, laud, and praising, and
to pray for ye good health, prosperity, and continuall preservation of ye sd Princess accordingly.
Yeoven under our Signett at my Lds Manner of Greenwch,[16] ye 7th day of September, in ye 25th
yeare of my said Lds raigne, An. Dno. 1533."

S.I.B.

   [16] Queen Elizabeth was born at the ancient Palace of
        Greenwich, or as it was then called, "the Manner of Plesaunce,"
        one of the favourite residences of Henry VIII.

       *       *       *       *       *

MEMORABLE DAYS.

       *       *       *       *       *

COLLOP MONDAY.

Collop Monday is the day before Shrove Tuesday, and in many parts is made a day of great feasting
on account of the approaching Lent. It is so called, because it was the last day allowed for
eating animal food before Lent; and our ancestors cut up their fresh meat into collops, or
steaks, for salting or hanging up until Lent was over; and even now in many places it is still
a custom to have eggs and collops, or slices of bacon, for dinner on this day.

In Westmoreland, and particularly at Brough, where I have witnessed it many times, the good
people kill a great many pigs about a week or two previous to Lent, which have been carefully
fattened up for the occasion. The good housewife is busily occupied in salting the flitches
and hams to hang up in the "pantry," and in cutting the fattest parts of the pig for collops
on this day. The most luscious cuts are baked in a pot in an oven, and the fat poured out into
a bladder, as it runs out of the meat, for hog's-lard. When all the lard has been drained off,
the remains (which are called cracklings, being then baked quite crisp) resemble the crackling
on a leg of pork, are eaten with potatoes, and from the quantity of salt previously added to
them, to preserve the lard, are unpalatable to many mouths. The rough farmers' men, however,
devour them as a savoury dish, and every time "lard" is being made, cracklings are served up
for the servants' dinner. Indeed, even the more respectable classes partake of this dish.

PIG-FRY--This is a Collop Monday dish, and is a necessary appendage to "cracklings." It consists
of the fattest parts of the entrails of the pig, broiled in an oven. Numerous herbs, spices,
&c. are added to it; and upon the whole, it is a more sightly "course" at table than fat cracklings.
Sometimes the good wife indulges her house with a pancake, as an assurance that she has not
forgotten to provide for Shrove Tuesday. The servants are also treated with "a drop of something
good" on this occasion; and are allowed (if they have nothing of importance to require their
immediate attention) to spend the afternoon in conviviality.

AVVER BREAD.--During Lent, in the same county, a great quantity of bread, called avver bread,
is made. It is of oats, leavened and kneaded into a large, thin, round cake, which is placed
upon a "girdle"[17] over the fire. The bread is about the thickness of a "lady's" slice of
bread and butter.

   [17] Rutherglen, in Lanarkshire, has also long been celebrated
        for baking sour cakes--See vol. X. MIRROR, p 316.--I am of
        opinion these cakes are of precisely the same make and origin as
        those to which the writer alludes under the above name of "sour
        cakes," which I presume he must have forgotten the name of. I
        should have mentioned, that when these cakes (for they are
        frequently called avver cakes) are baked, the fire must be of
        wood; they never bake them over any other fire. These cakes are
        of a remarkably strong, sour taste. I should further note, that
        the girdle is attached to a "crane" affixed in the chimney.

I am totally unable to give a definition of the word avver, and should feel much gratified
by any correspondent's elucidation. I think P.T.W. may possibly assist me on this point; and
if so, I shall be much obliged. There is an evident corruption in it. I have sometimes thought
that avver means oaten, although I have no other authority than from knowing the strange pronunciation
given to other words.

W.H.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CONTEMPORARY TRAVELLER.

       *       *       *       *       *

DESCRIPTION OF MEKKA.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NATURALIST.

Snow is one of the treasures of the atmosphere. Its wonderful construction, and the beautiful
regularity of its figures, have been the object of a treatise by Erasmus Bartholine, who published
in 1661, "De Figurâ Nivis Dissertatio," with observations of his brother Thomas on the use
of snow in medicine. On examining the flakes of snow with a magnifying glass before they melt,
(which may easily be done by making the experiment in the open air,) they will appear composed
of fine shining spicula or points, diverging like rays from a centre. As the flakes fall down
through the atmosphere, they are joined by more of these radiated spicula, and thus increase
in bulk like the drops of rain or hail-stones. Dr. Green says, "that many parts of snow are
of a regular figure, for the most part so many little rowels or stars of six points, and are
as perfect and transparent ice as any seen on a pond. Upon each of these points are other collateral
points set at the same angles as the main points themselves; among these there are divers others,
irregular, which are chiefly broken points and fragments of the regular ones. Others also,
by various winds, seem to have been thawed and frozen again into irregular clusters; so that
it seems as if the whole body of snow was an infinite mass of icicles irregularly figured.
That is, a cloud of vapours being gathered into drops, those drops forthwith descend, and in
their descent, meeting with a freezing air as they pass through a colder region, each drop
is immediately frozen into an icicle, shooting itself forth into several points; but these
still continuing their descent, and meeting with some intermitting gales of warmer air, or,
in their continual waftage to and fro, touching upon each other are a little thawed, blunted,
and frozen into clusters, or entangled so as to fall down in what we call flakes." But we are
not, (says the author of the "Contemplative Philosopher,") to consider snow merely as a curious
phenomenon. The Great Disposer of universal bounty has so ordered it, that it is eminently
subservient, as well as all the works of creation, to his benevolent designs.

  "He gives the winter's snow her airy birth,
  And bids her virgin fleeces clothe the earth."
                                           SANDYS.

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

MONKEYS AT GIBRALTAR.

Though Gibraltar abounds with monkeys, there are none to be found in the rest of Spain; this
is supposed to be occasioned by the following circumstance;--The waters of the Propontis, which
anciently might be nothing but a lake formed by the Granicus and Rhyndacus, finding it more
easy to work themselves a canal by the Dardanelles than any other way, spread into the Mediterranean,
and forcing a passage into the ocean between Mount Atlas and Calpe, separated the rock from
the coast of Africa; and the monkeys being taken by surprise, were compelled to be carried
with it over to Europe, "These animals," says a resident at Gibraltar, "are now in high favour
here. The lieutenant-governor, General Don, has taken them under his protection, and threatened
with fine and imprisonment any one who shall in any way molest them. They have increased rapidly,
of course. Many of them are as large as our dogs; and some of the old grandfathers and great-grandfathers
are considerably larger. I had the good fortune to fall in with a family of about ten, and
had an opportunity of watching for a time their motions. There appeared to be a father and
mother, four or five grown-up children, and three that had not reached the years of discretion.
One of them was still at the breast; and although he was large enough to be weaned, and indeed
made his escape as rapidly as the mother when they took the alarm, it was quite impossible
to restrain laughter when one saw the mother, with great gravity, sitting nursing the little
elf, with her hand behind it, and the older children skipping up and down the walls, and playing
all sorts of antic tricks with one another. They made their escape with the utmost rapidity,
leaping over rocks and precipices with great agility, and evidently unconscious of fear."

W.G.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR,

AND

LITERARY NOTICES OF

NEW WORKS

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GREAT WORLD OF FASHION.

Satire is the pantomime of literature, and harlequin's jacket, his black vizor, and his eel-like
lubricity, are so many harmless satires on the weak sides of our nature. The pen of the satirist
is as effective as the pencil of the artist; and provided it draw well, cannot fail to prove
as attractive. Indeed, the characters of pantomime, harlequin, columbine, clown, and pantaloon,
make up the best quarto that has ever appeared on the manners and follies of the times; and
they may be turned to as grave an account as any page of Seneca's Morals, or Cicero's Disputations;
however various the means, the end, or object, is the same, and all is rounded with a sleep.

"The Great World," in the language of satire, is the "glass of fashion and the mould of form."
Its geography and history are as perpetually changing as the modes of St. James's, or the features
of one of its toasted beauties; and what is written of it to-day may be dry, and its time be
out of joint, before it has escaped the murky precincts of the printing-house. It is subtlety
itself, and we know not "whence it cometh, and whither it goeth." Its philosophy is concentric,
for this Great World consists of thousands of little worlds, usque ad infinitum, and we do
well if we become not giddy with looking on the wheels of its vicissitudes.

We know not whom we have to thank for the pamphlet of sixty pages--entitled "A Geographical
and Historical Account of the Great World"--now before us. It bears the imprint of "Ridgway,
Piccadilly," so that it is published at the gate of the very region it describes--like the
accounts of Pere la Chaise, sold at its concierge. Annexed is a Map of the Great World--but
the author has not "attempted to lay down the longitude; the only measurements hitherto made
being confined to the west of the meridian of St. James's Strait." Then the author tells us
of the atomic hypothesis of the formation of the Great World. "These rules, for the performance
of what appears to be an atomic quadrille, are furnished by Sir H. Davy, elected by the Great
World, master of the ceremonies for the preservation of order, and prescribing rules for the
regulation of the Universe." "The surface of the Great World, or rather its crust, has been
ascertained to be exceedingly shallow."

The inhabitants of the Great World, in its diurnal rotation, receive no light from the sun
till a few hours before the time of its setting with us, when it also sets with them, so that
they are inconvenienced for a short time only, by its light. In its annual orbit, it has but
one season, which, though called Spring, is subject to the most sudden alternations of heat
and cold. The females have a singular method of protecting themselves from the baneful effects
of these violent changes, which is worthy of notice:--they wrap themselves up, during the short
time the sun shines, in pelisses, shawls, and cloaks, their heads being protected by hats,
whose umbrageous brims so far exceed in dimensions the little umbrellas raised above them,
that a stranger is at a loss to conjecture the use of the latter. Shortly after the sun has
set, these habiliments are all thrown off, dresses of gossamer are substituted in their place,
and the fair wearers rush out into the open air, to enjoy the cool night breezes.

This is but the "Companion to the Map." The Voyage to the several Islands of the Great World,
"is in a frame-work of the adventures of Sir Heedless Headlong, who neither reaches the Great
World by a balloon, nor Perkins's steam-gun. He cruises about St. James's Straits, makes for
Idler's Harbour, in Alba; is repulsed, but with a friend, Jack Rashleigh, journeys to Society
Island, lands at Small Talk Bay, and makes for the capital, Flirtington. He first visits a
general assembly of the leaders of the isle. At the house of assembly the rush of charioteers
was so great, that it is impossible to say what might have been the consequence of the general
confusion, or how many lives might have been lost, but for the interference of a little man
in a flaxen wig, and broad-brimmed hat, with a cane in his hand, whose authority is said to
extend equally over ladies and pickpockets of all degrees."[18] Then comes an exquisite bit
of badinage on that most stupid of all stupidities, a fashionable rout.

   [18] Quasi Townsend.

"On entering the walls, my surprise may be partly conceived, at finding those persons, whom
I had seen so eagerly striving to gain admittance, crowded together in a capacious vapour bath,
heated to so high a temperature, that had I not been aware of the strict prohibition of science,
I should have imagined the meeting to have been held for the purpose of ascertaining, by experiment,
the greatest degree of heat which the human frame is capable of supporting. That they should
choose such a place for their deliberations upon the welfare of the island, appeared to me
extraordinary, and only to be accounted for upon the supposition that it was intended to carry
off, by evaporation, that internal heat to which the assemblies of legislators of some other
countries are known to be subject. Judging from the grave and melancholy countenances of the
persons assembled, I councluded the affairs of the island to be in a very disasterous state;
and I could discover very little either said or done, at all calculated to advance its interests.
Of the capital itself, some members said a few words; but, to use the language of our Globe,
in so inaudible a tone of voice, that we could scarcely catch their import. The principal subject
of their discussion consisted of complaining of the extreme heat of the bath, and mutual inquiries
respecting their intention of immersing themselves in any others that were open the same night."

He next satirizes a fashionable dinner, the parks, the Horticultural Society, some pleasant
jokes upon a rosy mother and her parsnip-pale daughters, and an admirable piece of fun upon
the female oligarchy of Almacks.

"From hence I made a trip to Crocky's Island, situated on the opposite side of the Strait.
On landing at Hellgate, within Fools' Inlet my surprise was much excited by the prodigious
flocks of gulls, pigeons, and geese, which were directing their flight towards the Great Fish
Lake, whither I, too, was making my way. I concluded their object was to procure food, of which
a profusion was here spread before them, consisting of every thing which such birds most delight
to peck at; but no sooner had they settled near the bank, than they were seized upon by a Fisherman,
(who was lying in wait for them,) and completely plucked of their feathers, an operation to
which they very quietly submitted, and were then suffered to depart. Upon inquiring his motive
for what appeared to me a wanton act of cruelty, he told me his intention was to stuff his
bed with the feathers; 'or,' added he, 'if you vill, to feather my nest.' Being myself an admirer
of a soft bed, I saw no reason why I should not employ myself in the same way; but owing, perhaps,
to my being a novice in the art, and not knowing how to manage the birds properly, they were
but little disposed to submit themselves to my hands; and, in the attempt, I found myself so
completely covered with feathers, that which of the three descriptions of birds aforesaid I
most resembled, it would have been difficult to determine. The fisherman, seeing my situation,
was proceeding to add to the stock of feathers which he had collected in a great bag, by plucking
those from my person, when, wishing to save him any further trouble, I hurried back to Hellgate."

We cannot accompany Sir Heedless any further; but must conclude with a few piquancies from
the Vocabulary of the Language of the Great World, which is as necessary to the enjoyment of
fashionable life, as is a glossary to an elementary scientific treatise:--

At Home.--Making your house as unlike home as possible, by turning every thing topsy-turvy,
removing your furniture, and squeezing as many people into your rooms as can be compressed
together.

Not at Home.--Sitting in your own room, engaged in reading a new novel, writing notes, or other
important business.

Affection.--A painful sensation, such as gout, rheumatism, cramp, head-ache, &c.

Mourning.--An outward covering of black, put on by the relatives of any deceased person of
consequence, or by persons succeeding to a large fortune, as an emblem of their grief upon
so melancholy an event.

Morning.--The time corresponding to that between our noon and sun-set.

Evening.--The time between our sun-set and sun-rise.

Night.---The time between our sun-rise and noon.

Domestic.--An epithet applied to cats, dogs, and other tame animals, keeping at home.

Reflection.--The person viewed in a looking-glass.

Tenderness.--A property belonging to meat long kept.

An Undress.--A thick covering of garments.

A Treasure.--A lady's maid, skilful in the mysteries of building up heads, and pulling down
characters; ingenious in the construction of caps, capes, and scandal, and judicious in the
application of paint and flattery; also, a footman, who knows, at a single glance, what visiters
to admit to the presence of his mistress, and whom to refuse.

Immortality.--An imaginary privilege of living for ever, conferred upon heroes, poets, and
patriots.

Taste.--The art of discerning the precise shades of difference constituting a bad or well dressed
man, woman, or dinner.

Tact.--The art of wheedling a rich old relation, winning an heiress, or dismissing duns with
the payment of fair promises.

Album.--A ledger kept by ladies for the entry of compliments, in rhyme, paid on demand to their
beautiful hair, complexions fair, the dimpled chin, the smiles that win, the ruby lips, where
the bee sips, &c. &c.; the whole amount being transferred to their private account from the
public stock.

Resignation.--Giving up a place.

A Heathen.--An infidel to the tenets of ton, a Goth; a monster; a vulgar wretch. One who eats
twice of soup, swills beer, takes wine, knows nothing about ennui, dyspepsia, or peristaltic
persuaders, and does not play ecarté; a creature--nobody.

Vice.--An instrument made use of by ladies in netting for the purpose of securing their work.

A Martyr.--A gentleman subject to the gout.

Temperate.----Quiet, an epithet applied only to horses.

Bore.--A country acquaintance, or relation, a leg of mutton, a hackney-coach, &c., children,
or a family party.

Love.--Admiration of a large fortune.

Courage.--Shooting a fellow creature, perhaps a friend, from the fear of being thought a coward.

Christmas.--That time of year when tradesmen, and boys from school, become troublesome.

       *       *       *       *       *

OLD POETS.

       *       *       *       *       *

A KISS.

  Best charge and bravest retreat in Cupid's fight,
  A double key which opens to the heart,
  Most rich, when most his riches it impart,
  Nest of young joys, schoolmaster of delight,
  Teaching the mean at once to take and give,
  The friendly stay, where blows both wound and heal,
  The petty death where each in other live,
  Poor hope's first wealth, hostage of promise weak,
  Breakfast of love.
                            SIR P. SYDNEY.

       *       *       *       *       *

SIGHT.

  -----Nine things to sight required are
    The power to see, the light, the visible thing:
  Being not too small, too thin, too nigh, too far,
    Clear space, and time the form distinct to bring.
                                     J. DAVIES.

       *       *       *       *       *

MERCY AND JUSTICE.

  Oh who shall show the countenance and gestures
  Of Mercy and Justice; which fair sacred sisters,
  With equal poise doth ever balance even,
  The unchanging projects of the King of heaven.
  The one stern of look, the other mild aspecting,
  The one pleas'd with tears, the other blood affecting;
  The one bears the sword of vengeance unrelenting
  The other brings pardon for the true repenting.
                                  J. SYLVESTER

      *       *       *       *       *

  I know that countenance cannot lie
  Whose thoughts are legible in the eye.
                                  M. ROYDON.

       *       *       *       *       *

INGRATITUDE.

  Unthankfulness is that great sin,
    Which made the devil and his angels fall:
  Lost him and them the joys that they were in,
    And now in hell detains them bound in thrall.
                              SIR J. HARRINGTON.

       *       *       *       *       *

