"Well," he said, in a duller tone, "we'll get out of this. It was very kind of you to come
and meet me. I see now I oughtn't to have asked it; but to tell the truth, the thought of going
to a girls' school, and claiming you----"

"I quite understand," I nipped in. "This is much better. My luggage is all here," I added.
"I couldn't think where else to send it, as I didn't know what your plans might be."

At that he looked annoyed again, but luckily, only with himself this time. "I fear I am an
ass where women's affairs are concerned," he said. "Of course I ought to have thought about
your luggage, and settled every detail for you with Madame de Maluet, instead of trusting to
her discretion. Still, it does seem as if she----"

I wouldn't let him blame Madame; but I couldn't defend her without risking danger for Ellaline
and myself, because Madame's arrangements were all perfect, if we hadn't secretly upset them.
"I have so little luggage," I broke in, trying to make up with emphasis for irrelevancy. "And
Madame considers me quite a grown-up person, I assure you."

"I suppose you are," he admitted, observing my inches with a worried air. "I ought to have
realized; but somehow or other I expected to find a child."

"I shall be less bother to you than if I were a child," I consoled him.

This did make him smile again, for some reason, as he replied that he wasn't sure. And we were
starting to hook ourselves on to the tail end of the dwindling procession, quite on friendly
terms, when to my horror that young English cadlet--or boundling, which you will--strolled
calmly out in front of us, and said, "How do you do, Sir Lionel Pendragon? I'm afraid you don't
remember me. Dick Burden. Anyhow, you'll recollect my mother and aunt."

I had forgotten all about the creature, dearest; but there he had been lurking, ready to pounce.
And what bad luck that he should know Ellaline's guardian, wasn't it?

At first I thought maybe he really had had business at the Gare de Lyon, and that I'd partly
misjudged him. And then it flashed into my head that, on the contrary, he didn't really know
Sir Lionel, but had overheard the name, and was doing a "bluff" to get introduced to me. Wasn't
that a conceited idea? But neither was true. At least the latter wasn't, I know, and I'm pretty
sure the first wasn't. What I think, is this: that he simply followed me to the Gare de Lyon
for the "deviltry" of the thing, and because he'd nothing better to do. That he hung about
in sheer curiosity, to see whom I was meeting; and that he recognized the Dragon as an old
acquaintance. I once fondly supposed coincidences were remarkable and rare events, but I've
known ever since I've known the troubles of life that it's only agreeable ones which are rare,
such as coming across your long-lost millionaire-uncle who's decided to leave you all his money,
just as you'd made up your mind to commit suicide or marry a Jewish diamond merchant. Disagreeable
coincidences sit about on damp clouds ready to fall on you the minute they think you don't
expect them, and they're more likely to occur than not. That's my experience. Evidently the
Dragon did remember Dick's mother and aunt, for the first blankness of his expression brightened
into intelligence with the mention of the youth's female belongings. He held out his hand cordially,
and remarked that of course he remembered Mrs. Burden and Mrs. Senter. As for Dick, he had
grown out of all recollection.

"It was a good many years ago," returned the said Dick, hastening to disprove the slur of youthfulness.
"It was just before I went to Sandhurst. But you haven't changed. I knew you at once."

"On leave, I suppose?" suggested Sir Lionel.

"No," said Dick, "I'm not in the army. Failed. Truth is, I didn't want to get in. Wasn't cut
out for it. There's only one profession I care for."

"What's that?" the Dragon was obliged to ask, out of politeness, though I don't think he cared
much.

"The fact is," returned Mr. Burden (a most appropriate name, according to my point of view),
"it's rather a queer one, or might seem so to you, and I've promised the mater I won't talk
of it unless I do adopt it. And I'm over here qualifying, now."

It was easy to see that he hoped he'd excited our curiosity; and he must have been disappointed
in Sir Lionel's half-hearted "Indeed?" As for me, I tried to make my eyes look like boiled
gooseberries, an unenthusiastic fruit, especially when cooked. I was delighted with the Dragon,
though, for not introducing him.

Having said "indeed," Sir Lionel added that we must be getting on--luggage to see to; his valet
a foreigner, and more bother than use. I took my cue, and pattered along by my guardian's side,
his tall form a narrow yet impassable bulwark between me and Mr. Dick Burden. But Mr. D. B.
pattered too, refusing to be thrown off.

He asked Sir Lionel if he were staying on in Paris; and in the short conversation that followed
I picked up morsels of news which hadn't been given me yet. It appeared that the Dragon's sister
(who would suspect a dragon of sisters?) had wired to Marseilles that she would meet him in
Paris, and he "expected to find her at an hotel." He didn't say what hotel, so it was evident
Mr. Dick Burden need not hope for an invitation to call. Apparently our plans depended somewhat
on her, but Sir Lionel "thought we should get away next day at latest." There was nothing to
keep him in Paris, and he was in a hurry to reach England. I was glad to hear that, for fear
some more coincidences might happen, such as meeting Madame de Maluet or one of the teachers
holiday-making. Conscience does make you a coward! I never noticed mine much before. I wish
you could take anti-conscience powders, as you do for neuralgia. Wouldn't they sell like hot cakes?

At last Mr. Dick Burden had to go away without getting the introduction he wanted, and Sir
Lionel was either very absent-minded or else very obstinate not to give it, I'm not sure which;
but if I were a betting character I should bet on the latter. I begin to see that his dragon-ness
may be expected to leak out in his attitude toward Woman as a Sex. Already I've detected the
most primitive, almost primæval, ideas in him, which probably he contracted in Bengal. Would
you believe it, he insisted on my putting on a veil to travel with?--but I haven't come to
that part yet.

As for Mr. Burden, as I said, he disappeared from our view; but I doubt if we disappeared from
his. You may think this is conceited in me, but, as he took off his Panama in saying good-bye,
he contrived to peer at me round an unfortified corner of the Dragon, and the look he flung
me said more plainly than words: "This is all right, but I'm hanged if I don't see it through,"
or something even more emphatic to that effect.

Sir Lionel was surprised when he saw my luggage, which we picked up when he'd claimed his own.

"I thought young ladies never went anywhere without a dozen boxes," said he.

"Oh, mamma and I travelled half over Europe with only one trunk and two bags between us," I
blurted out, before I stopped to think. Then I wished the floor would yawn and swallow me up.

He did stare!--and his eyes are dreadfully piercing when he stares. They are very nice-looking
gray ones; but I can tell you they felt like hatpins.

"I should have thought you were too young in those days to know anything about luggage," said he.

That gave me a straw to clutch. "Madame de Maluet has told me a great deal." (So she has, about
one thing or another; mostly my own faults.)

"Oh, I see," he said. It must have seemed funny to him, my saying that about the trunks, as
Ellaline's mother died when E. was four.

He hadn't much luggage, either; no golf clubs, or battle-axes, or whatever you play about with
in Bengal when you aren't terrorizing the natives. He sent the brown servant off in one cab
with our things, and put me in another, into which he also mounted. It did seem funny driving
off with him, for when I came to think of it, I was never alone with a man before; but he was
gawkier about it than I was. Not exactly shy; I hardly know how to express it, but he couldn't
help showing that he was out of his element.

Oh, I forgot to tell you, he'd shaken hands with the Mock Dragon, and shunted him off just
as ruthlessly as he did the boy. "See you in London, sooner or later," said he. As if anyone
could want to see such a disagreeable old thing! Yet, perhaps, if I but knew, the Mock Dragon's
character may be the nobler of the two. If I were to judge by appearances, I should have liked
the real Dragon's looks, and thought from first sight that he was rather a brave, fine, high-principled
person, even unselfish. Whereas I know from all Ellaline has told me that his qualities are
quite the reverse of these.

We were going to the Grand Hotel, and driving there he pumped up a few perfunctory sort of
questions about school, the way grown-up people who don't understand children talk to little
girls. You know: "Do you like your lessons? What do you do on holidays? What is your middle
name?" sort of thing. I was afraid I should laugh, so I asked him questions instead; and all
the time he seemed to be studying me in a puzzled, surprised way, as if I were a duck that
had just stepped out of a chicken egg, or a goblin in a Nonconformist home. (If he keeps on
doing this, I shall have to find out what he means by it, or burst.)

I asked him about his sister, as I thought Bengal might be a sore subject, and he appeared
to think that I already knew something of her. If Ellaline does know, she forgot to tell me;
and I hope other things like that won't be continually cropping up, or my nerves won't stand
it. I shall take to throwing spoons and tea-cups.

He reminded me of her name being Mrs. Norton, and that she's a widow. He hadn't expected her
to come over, he said, and he was surprised to get her telegram, but no doubt he'd find out
that she'd a pretty good reason. And it was nothing to be astonished at, her not meeting him
at the Gare de Lyon, for she invariably missed people when she went to railway stations. It
had been a characteristic of hers since youth. When they were both young they were often in
Paris together, for they had French cousins (Ellaline's mother's people, I suppose), and then
they stopped at the Grand Hotel. He hadn't been there, though, he added, for nearly twenty
years; and had been out of England, without coming back, for fifteen. That made him seem old,
talking of what happened twenty years ago--almost my whole life. Yet he doesn't look more than
thirty-five at most. I wonder does the climate of Bengal preserve people, like flies in amber?
Perhaps he's really sixty, and has this unnatural appearance of youth.

"Does Mrs. Norton know about--me?" I asked.

"Why; of course she does," said he. "I wrote her she must come and live with me when I found
I'd got to have----" He shut up like a clam, on that, and looked so horribly ashamed of himself
that I burst out laughing.

"Please don't mind," said I. "I know I'm an incubus, but I'll try to be as little trouble as
possible."

"You're not an incubus," he contradicted me, almost indignantly. "You're entirely different
from what I thought you would be."

"Oh, then you thought I would be an incubus?" I couldn't resist the temptation of retorting.
Maybe it was cruel, but there's no society for the prevention of cruelty to dragons, so it
can't be considered wrong in humane circles.

"Not at all. But I--I don't know much about women, especially girls," said he. "And I told
you I thought of you as a child."

"I hope you haven't gone to the trouble of engaging a nurse for me?" I suggested. And if he
were cross at being teased, he didn't show it. He said he'd trusted all such arrangements to
his sister. He hadn't seen her for many years, but she was good-natured, and he hoped that
we would get on. What I principally hoped was that she wouldn't prove to be of a suspicious
nature; for a detective on the hearth would be inconvenient, and women can be so sharp about
each other! I've found that out at Madame de Maluet's; I never would from you, dear. You weren't
a cat in any of your previous incarnations. I think you must have "evoluted" from that neat
blending of serpent and dove which eventually produces a perfect Parisienne.

We went into the big hall of the Grand Hotel, where Sir Lionel said in "his day" carriages
used to drive in; and suddenly, to my own surprise, I felt gay and excited, as if this were
life, and I had begun to live. I didn't regret having to play Ellaline one bit. Everything
seemed great fun. You know, darling, I haven't had much "life," except in you and books, since
I was sixteen, and our pennies and jauntings finished up at the same time; though I had plenty
before that--all sorts of "samples," anyhow. I suppose it must have been the bright, worldly
look of the hotel which gave me that tingling sensation, as if a little wild bird had burst
into song in my heart.

Although it's out of season for Parisians, the hall was full of fashionable-seeming people,
mostly Americans and other foreigners. As we came in, a lady rose from a seat near the door.
She was small, and the least fashionable or well-dressed person in the room, yet with the air
of being satisfied with herself morally. I saw at once she was of the type who considers her
church a "home from home"; who dresses her house as if it were a person, and upholsters herself
as if she were a sofa. Of course, I knew it was Mrs. Norton, and I was disappointed. I would
almost have preferred her to be catty.

She and her brother hadn't seen each other for fifteen years, but they met as calmly as if
they had lunched together yesterday. I think, though, that was more her fault than his, for
when he held out his hand she lifted it up on a level with her chin to shake; and of course
that would have taken the "go" out of a grasshopper. I suppose it wouldn't have been "good
form" to kiss in a hotel hall, but if I retrieved a long-lost brother in any sort of hall,
I don't believe I could resist.

Her hair was so plainly drawn back, it was like a moral influence, and her toque sat up high
on her head like a bun or a travelling pincushion. The only trimming on her dress was buttons,
but there were a large family of them.

Sir Lionel introduced us, and she said she was pleased to meet me. Also, that I was not at
all like my mother or father. Then she asked if I had ever been to England; but luckily, before
I'd had a chance to compromise myself by saying that I'd lived a few months in London, but
had been nowhere else (there's where our money began to give out), her brother reminded her
that I was only four when I left England.

"Of course, I had forgotten," said Mrs. Norton. "But don't they ever take them over to see
the British Museum or the National Gallery? I should have thought it would be an education--with
cheap returns."

"Probably French schoolmistresses believe that their pupils get their money's worth on the
French side of the Channel," replied Sir Lionel.

"Oh!" said Mrs. Norton; and looked at me as if to see how the system had answered. I'm sure
she approved of the gray serge and the sailor hat more than she approved of the girl in them.
You see, I don't think she sanctions hair that isn't dark brown.

We didn't sit down, but talked standing up. Sir Lionel and his sister throwing me words out
of politeness now and then. She has a nice voice, though cold as iced water that has been filtered.
Her name is Emily. It would be!

He said he was surprised as well as pleased to get her telegram on arriving at Marseilles,
and it was very good of her to come to Paris and meet him. She said not at all, it was no trouble,
but a pleasure, or rather it would be, if it weren't for the sad reason that brought her.

"Why, is anybody dead?" asked Sir Lionel, looking as if he were running over a list in his
head, but couldn't call up a name which concerned him personally.

"There's been a thinning off among old friends lately, I'm sorry to say; I've told you about
most of them, I think, in postscripts," replied Mrs. Norton. "But it wasn't their loss, poor
dears, which brought me over. It was the fire."

"What fire?" her brother wanted to know.

"Why, your fire. Surely you must have seen about it in to-day's London papers?"

"To-day's London papers won't get to Marseilles till to-morrow, and I haven't been long enough
in Paris to see one yet," explained Sir Lionel. "Have I had a serious fire, and what has been
burnt?" He spoke as coolly as if it were the question of a mutton chop.

"Part of the house," returned Mrs. Norton, not even trying to break it to him.

"I hope not the old part," said he.

"No, it is the new wing. But that seemed to me such a pity. Such a beautiful bathroom, hot
and cold, spray and shower, quite destroyed; and a noble linen closet, heated throughout with
pipes, and fully stocked."

"The bathroom may have been early Pullman, and the linen closet late German Lloyd, my dear
Emily; but the rest of the house is Tudor, and can't be replaced," said Sir Lionel; and I was
sure, as he looked down at his sister, of a thing I'd already suspected: that he has a sense
of humour. That's a modern improvement with which you wouldn't expect a dragon to be fitted;
but I begin to see that this is an elaborate and complicated Dragon. Some people are Pharisees
about their sense of humour, and keep harping on it till you wish it were a live wire and would
electrocute them. He would rather be ashamed of his, I fancy, and yet it must have amused him,
and made him feel good chums with himself, away out in Bengal.

Mrs. Norton said that Warings had very handsome Tudor dining-rooms in one or two of their model
houses, so nothing was irrevocable nowadays; but she was pleased, if he was, that only the
modern wing was injured. It had happened yesterday morning, just too late for the newspapers,
which must have annoyed the editors; and she had felt that it would be best to undertake the
journey to Paris, and consult about plans, as it might make a difference (here she glanced
at me); but she hadn't mentioned the fire when wiring, because things seemed worse in telegrams,
and besides, it would have been a useless expense. No doubt it had been stupid of her, but
she had fancied he would certainly see it in the paper, with all details, and therefore guess
why she was meeting him.

"We have nowhere to take Miss Lethbridge," said she, "since Graylees Castle will be overrun
with workmen for some time to come. I didn't know but you might feel it would be best, after
all, for us to put her again in charge of her old schoolmistress for a few weeks."

If hair could really rise, mine would have instantly cast out every hairpin, as if they were
so many evil spirits, and have stood out all around my head like Strumpelpeter's. Yet there
was nothing I could say. If I were mistress of a dozen languages, I should have had to be speechless
in every one. But I saw Sir Lionel looking at me, and I hastily gave him a silent treatment
with my eyes. It had the most satisfactory effect.

"No, I don't think we will take her back to Madame de Maluet's," said he. "Madame may have
made other plans for the holiday season. Perhaps she is going away."

"I'm sure she is," said I. "She is going to visit her mother-in-law's aunt."

Sir Lionel was still looking at me, lost in thought. (I forget if I mentioned that he has nice
eyes? I haven't time to look back and see if I did, now. I'm scribbling as fast as I can. We
shall soon land, and I want to post this at Dover, if I can get an English stamp "off" someone,
as "Sissy" Williams, our only British neighbour, says.)

"How would you like a motor-car trip?" Sir Lionel asked abruptly.

The relief from suspense was almost too great, and I nearly jumped down his throat, so, after
all, it would have been my own fault if the Dragon had eaten me. "I should adore it!" I said.

"My dear!" protested Mrs. Norton, indulgently. "One adores Heavenly Beings."

"I'm not sure a motor-car isn't a heavenly being," said I, "though perhaps without capitals."

The Dragon smiled, but she looked awfully shocked, and no doubt blamed Madame de Maluet.

"I've a forty-horse Mercédès promised to be ready on my arrival," said Sir Lionel, still reflective.
"You know, Emily, the little twelve-horse-power car I had sent out to East Bengal was a Mercédès.
If I could drive her, I can drive a bigger car. Everybody says it's easier. And young Nick
has learned to be a first-rate mechanic."

I suppose young Nick must be the Dragon's pet name for the bronze image. What fun that he should
be a chauffeur! Fancy an Indian Idol squatted on the front seat of an up-to-date automobile.
But when you come to think of it, there have been other gods in cars. I only hope, if I'm to
be behind him, this one won't behave like Juggernaut. He wears almost too many clothes, for
he is the type that would look over-dressed in a bangle.

"We might have an eight or ten weeks' run about England," the Dragon went on, "while things
are being made straight at Graylees. It would be good to see something of the blessed old island
again before settling down."

"One would think you were quite pleased at the fire, Lionel," remarked his sister, who evidently
believes it wrong to look on the bright side of things, and right to expect the worst--like
an undertaker calling for a client before he's dead.

"What is, is," returned he. "We may as well make the best of it. You wouldn't mind a motor
tour, would you, Emily?"

"I would go if it were my duty, and you desired it," she said, looking as if she ought to be
on stained glass, with half a halo, "only I am hardly young enough to consider motoring as
a pleasure."

"There aren't many years between us," replied her brother, too polite to say whether he were
in front or behind, "but I confess I do regard it as a pleasure."

"A man is different," she admitted.

Thank goodness, he is!

Then they talked more about the fire, which, it seems, happened through something being wrong
with a flue, in a room where Mrs. N. had told a servant to build a fire on account of dampness.
It must be a wonderful old place from what they both let drop. (I told you in another letter
how Sir Lionel had inherited it, about the same time as his title, or a little later. The estate,
though, comes from the mother's side, and her people were from Warwickshire.) His cool British
way of saying and taking things is a good deal on the surface, I think. He would have hated
us to see it, but I'm sure he worked himself up to quite a pitch of joyful excitement over
the idea of the motor trip, as it developed in his mind. And it is splendid, isn't it, darling?

You know how sorry you were we hadn't been more economical, and made our money last long enough
to travel in England, instead of having to stop short after a splash in London. Now I'm going
to see bits in spite of all, until I'm "called away," and I'll try my best, in letters, to
make you see what I do. Ellaline wouldn't have enjoyed such a tour, for she hates the country,
or any place where it isn't suitable to wear high heels and picture hats. But I--oh, I! Twenty
dragons on the same seat of the car with me couldn't prevent my revelling in it--though it
may be cut short for me at any minute. As for Mrs. Norton----

But the stewardess has just said we shall be in, in five minutes. I had to come down to the
ladies' cabin with Mrs. N. Now I haven't time to tell you any more, except that they both (Sir
L. and his sister, I mean) wanted to get to England as soon as possible. I know she was disappointed
not to fling her brother's ward back to Madame de Maluet, and probably wouldn't have come over
to Paris if she hadn't hoped to bring it off; but she resigns herself to things easily when
a man says they're best. It was Sir Lionel who wanted particularly to cross to-night, though
he didn't urge it; but she said, "Very well, dear. I think you're right."

So here we are. A large bell is ringing, and so is my heart. I mean it's beating. Good-bye,
dearest. I'll write again to-morrow--or rather to-day, for it's a lovely sunrise, like a good
omen--when we get settled somewhere. I believe we're going to a London hotel. Yes, stewardess.
Oh, I ought to have said that to her, instead of writing it to you. She interrupted.

Love--love.

Your Audrie,

Their Ellaline.

V

AUDRIE BRENDON TO HER MOTHER

Ritz Hotel, London, July 8th

Angel: May your wings never moult! I hope you didn't think me extravagant wiring yesterday,
instead of writing. I was too busy baking the yeasty dough of my impressions to write a letter
worth reading; and when one has practically no money, what's the good of being economical?
You know the sole point of sympathy I ever touched with "Sissy" Williams was his famous speech:
"If I can't earn five hundred a year, it's not worth while worrying to earn anything"; which
excused his settling down as a "remittance man," in the top flat, at forty francs a month.

Dearest, the Dragon hasn't drag-ged once, yet! And, by the way, till he does so, I think I
won't call him Dragon again. It's rather gratuitous, as I'm eating his bread--or rather, his
perfectly gorgeous à la cartes, and am literally smeared with luxury, from my rising up until
my lying down, at his expense.

I know, and you know, because I repeated it word for word, that Ellaline said she thought he
must have been well paid for undertaking to "guardian" her, as his hard, selfish type does
nothing for nothing; and she has always seemed so very rich (quite the heiress of the school,
envied for her dresses and privileges) that there might be temptations for an unscrupulous
man to pick up a few plums here and there. But--well, of course Ellaline ought to know, after
being his ward ever since she was four, and hearing things on the best authority about the
horrid way he treated her mother, as well as suffering from his cruel heartlessness all these
years. Never a letter written to herself; never the least little present; never a wish to hear
from her, or see her photograph; all business carried on between himself and Madame de Maluet,
who is too discreet to prejudice a ward against a guardian. And I--I saw him only day before
yesterday for the first time. What can I know about him? I've no experience in reading characters
of men. The dear old Abbé and a few masters in the school are the only ones I have a bowing
acquaintance with--except "Sissy" Williams, who doesn't count. It's dangerous to trust to one's
instincts, no doubt, for it's so difficult to be sure a wish isn't disguising itself as instinct,
in rouge and a golden wig.

But then, there's the man's profile, which is of the knight-of-old, Crusader pattern, a regular
hook to hang respect upon, though I'd be doing it injustice if I let you imagine it's shaped
like a hook. It isn't; it's quite beautiful; and you find yourself furtively, semi-consciously
sketching it in air with your forefinger as you look at it. It suggests race, and noblesse
oblige, and a long line of soldier ancestors, and that sort of thing, such as you used to say
survived visibly among the English aristocracy and English peasantry (not in the mixed-up middle
classes) more markedly than anywhere else. That must mean some correspondence in character,
mustn't it? Or can it be a mask, handed down by noble ancestry to cover up moral defects in
a degenerate descendant?

Am I gabbling school-girl gush, or am I groping toward light? You know what I want to say,
anyhow. The impression Sir Lionel Pendragon makes on me would be different if he hadn't been
described by Ellaline. I should have supposed him quite easy to read, if he'd happened upon
me, unheralded--as a big ship looms over a little bark, on the high sea. I'd have thought him
a simple enough, straightforward character in that case. I should have put him in the class
with his own Tudor castle--not that I've ever yet seen a Tudor castle, except in photographs
or on postcards. But I'd have said to myself: If he'd been born a house instead of a man, he'd
have been built centuries and centuries ago, by strong barons who knew exactly what they wanted,
and grabbed it. He'd have been a castle, an early Tudor castle, battlemented and surrounded
by a moat, fortified, of course, and impregnable to the enemy, unless they treacherously blew
him up. He would have had several secret rooms, but they would contain chests of treasure,
not nasty skeletons.

Now you understand exactly what I'd be thinking of the alleged Dragon, if it weren't for Ellaline.
But as it is, I don't know what to think of him. That's why I describe him as elaborate and
complicated, because, I suppose, he must be totally different inside from what he seems outside.

Anyhow, I don't care--it's lovely being at the Ritz. And we're in the newspapers this morning,
Emily and I shining by reflected light; mine doubly reflected, like the earth's light shining
on to the moon, and from that being passed on to something else--some poor little chipped meteorite
strayed out of the Milky Way.

It was Mrs. Norton who discovered the article about Sir Lionel--half a column--in the Morning
Post and she sent out for lots of other papers without saying anything to her brother, for--according
to her--he "hates that sort of thing."

I didn't have time to tell you in my last that she was sick crossing the Channel (though it
was as smooth as if it had been ironed, and only a few wrinkles left in), but apparently she
considers it good form for a female to be slightly ill in a ladylike way on boats; so, of course,
she is. And as I was decent to her, she decided to like me better than she thought she would
at first. For some reason they both seemed prejudiced against me (I mean against Ellaline)
to begin with. I can't think why; and slowly, with unconcealable surprise, they are changing
their minds. Changing one's mind keeps one's soul nice and clean and fresh; so theirs will
be well aired, owing to me.

Emily has become quite resigned to my existence, and doles me out small confidences. She has
not a rich nature, to begin with, and it has never been fertilized much, so it's rather sterile;
but no noxious weeds, anyhow, as there may be in Sir Lionel's more generous and cultivated
soil. I think I shall get on with her pretty well after all, especially motoring, when I can
take her with plenty of ozone. She is a little afraid of her brother, though he's five years
younger than she (I've now learned), but extremely proud of him; and it was quite pathetic,
her cutting out the stuff about him in the papers, this morning, and showing every bit to me,
before pasting all in a book she has been keeping for years, entirely concerned with Sir Lionel.
She says she will show that to me, too, some day, but I mustn't tell him. As if I would!

But about the newspapers. She didn't order any Radical ones, because she said they were always
down on the aristocracy, and unjust as well as stupid; but she got one by mistake, and you've
no idea how delighted the poor little woman was when it praised her brother up to the skies.
Then she said there were some decent Radicals, after all.

Of course, one knows the difference between "Mirabeau judged by his friends and Mirabeau judged
by the people," and can make allowances (if one's digestion's good) for points of view. But
there's one thing certain, whether he's angel or devil, or something hybrid between the two,
Sir Lionel Pendragon is a man of importance in the Public Eye. I wonder if Ellaline realizes
his importance in that way? I can't think she does, or she would have mentioned it, as it needn't
have interfered with her opinion of his private character.

It's a little through Emily, but mostly from the newspaper cuttings, that I've got my knowledge
of what he's done, and been, and is expected to be.

He's forty. I know that, because the Morning Post gave the date of his birth, and he's rather
a swell, although only a baronet, and not even that till a short time ago. It appears that
the family on both sides goes back into the mists of antiquity, in the days when legend, handed
down by word of mouth (can you hand things out of your mouth? Sounds rude), was the forerunner
of history. His father's ancestors are supposed to be descended from King Arthur; hence the
"Pendragon"; though, I suppose, if it's true, King Arthur must really have been married several
times, as say the vulgar records of which Tennyson very properly takes no notice. There have
been dukes and earls in the family, but they have somehow disappeared, perhaps because in those
benighted days there were no American heiresses to keep them up.

It seems that Sir Lionel was a soldier to begin with, and was dreadfully wounded in some frontier
fight in India when he was very young. He nearly lost the use of his left arm, and gave up
the army; but he got the Victoria Cross. Ellaline didn't say a word about that. Maybe she doesn't
know. After I'd read his "dossier" in the paper, I couldn't resist asking him at lunch what
he had done to deserve the V. C.

"Nothing to deserve it," he answered, looking surprised.

"To get it, then?" I twisted my question round.

"Oh, I don't know--almost forget. Pulled some silly ass out of a hole, I believe," said he.

That's what you get for asking this sort of Englishman questions about his past. I thought
it was only widows with auburn hair you mustn't talk to about their pasts.

"A grateful Government" (according to the Morning Post) "sent young Pendragon, at the age of
twenty-five, to East Bengal, as private secretary to Sir John Hurley, who was lieutenant-governor
at that time"; and it's an ill Governor, so to speak, who blows no one any good. Sir John's
liver was so tired of Bengal, that he had to take it away, and Lieutenant Pendragon (as he
was then) looked after things till another man could arrive. He looked after them so brilliantly,
that when the next lieutenant-governor did something silly, and was asked to resign, our incipient
Sir Lionel was invited to take on the job. He was only thirty, and so he has been lieutenant-governor
for ten years. Now he's going to see whether he likes being a baronet better, and having castles
and motor-cars. All the papers I saw praised him tremendously, and said that in a crisis which
might have been disastrous he had averted a catastrophe by his remarkable strength of character
and presence of mind. I suppose that was the time when the other papers accused him of abominable
cruelties. I wonder which was right? Perhaps I shall be able to judge, sooner or later, if
I watch at the loopholes of his character like a cat watching for a mouse to come out for a walk.

As for money, if one can believe newspapers, he has plenty without shaking pennies from the
slot of Ellaline Lethbridge's bank, and was fairly well off even before he came in for his
title or his castle. However, as a very young man, he may have been poor--about the time he
went into guardianship.

By the way, the left arm seems all right now. Anyhow, he uses it as arms are meant to be used,
so far as I can see, so evidently it improved with time.

The papers tell about his coming back to England, and his Warwickshire castle, and the fire,
and Mrs. Norton giving up her house in--some county or other; I've already forgotten which--to
live with her "distinguished brother." Also, they say that he has a ward, whose mother was
a relative of the family, and whose father was the Honourable Frederic Lethbridge, so well
known and popular in society during the "late eighties." Ellaline was born in 1891. What had
become of him, I'd like to know? Perhaps he died before she was born. She has told me that
she can't remember him, but that's about all she has ever said of her father.

We are to stay at the Ritz until we start off on the motor trip, which is actually going to
happen, though I was afraid it was too good to be true. The new car won't be ready for a week,
though. I am sorry, but Mrs. Norton isn't. She is afraid she will be killed, and thinks it
will be a messy sort of death to die. Besides, she likes London. She says her brother will
be "overwhelmed with invitations"; but he hates society, and loathes being lionized. Imagine
the man smothered under stacks of perfumed notes, as Tarpeia was under the shields and bracelets!
Emily has not lived in London, because she wanted to be in a place where she particularly valued
the vicar and the doctor; but she has given them up for her brother now, and is only going
to write her symptoms, spiritual and physical. She enjoys church more than anything else, but
thinks it will be her duty to take me about a little while we're in town, as her brother is
sure not to, because he spurns women, and is not interested in anything they do.

I suppose she must know; and yet, at lunch yesterday, he asked if we were too tired, or if
we should like to "do a few theatres." I said--because I simply had to spare them a shock later--that
I was afraid I hadn't anything nice to wear. I felt myself go red--for it was a sort of disgrace
to Ellaline--but he didn't seem as much surprised as Mrs. Norton did. Her eyebrows went up;
but he only said of course school girls never had smart frocks, and I must buy a few dresses
at once.

One evening gown would be enough for a young girl, Mrs. Norton said, but he didn't agree with
her. He said he hadn't thought about it, but now that it occurred to him, he was of opinion
that women should have plenty of nice things. Then, when she told him, rather hurriedly, that
she would choose me something ready made at a good shop in Oxford Street, he remarked that
he'd always understood Bond Street was the place.

"Not for school girls," explained dear Emily, who is a canny person.

"She isn't a school girl now. That's finished," said Sir Lionel. And as she thinks him a tin
god on wheels, she ceased to argue.

By the by, he has the air of hating to call me by name. He says "Miss Lethbridge," in a curious,
stiff kind of way, when he's absolutely obliged to give me a label; otherwise he compromises
with "you," to which he confines himself when possible. It's rather odd, and can't be an accident.
The only reason I can think of is that he may feel it is really his duty to call me "Ellaline."

