"Does he live near here? What has he to do with the place?"

"He is dead long since, sir, and was owner of this house. Bullet wouldn't harm him, nor steel
cut him, so they sawed him in two with a wooden saw down by the bridge in front. He was a witch
of the very worst kind, your honour. You hear him groaning at the bridge every night, and sometimes
he walks through the house himself in two halves, and then every body leaves the place. And
that is our most serious danger, your honour. When Sir Goddard takes to groaning through these
rooms at night, you'll not get a man to stay with you, sir; but as he comes up from the pit
by the will of the Devil we expect his Reverence to ward him off."

Now this was most momentous news, for I would not stop in the place myself if a ghost was in
the habit of walking through it; but I cheered up Tom Peel by telling him that no imp of Satan
could appear in the same county as Father Donovan, and he passed on the word to the men, to
their mighty easement.

We had a splendid dinner in the grand hall, and each of us was well prepared for it; Father
Donovan himself, standing up at the head of the table, said the holy words in good Latin, and
I was so hungry that I was glad the Latins were in the habit of making short prayers.

Father Donovan and I sat at table with a bottle for company, and now that he knew all about
the situation, I was overjoyed to find him an inhabitant of the same house; for there was no
gentleman in all the company, except himself, for me to talk with.

Suddenly there was a blast of a bugle, and a great fluttering outside. The lower windows being
barricaded, it was not possible to see out of them, and I was up the stair as quick as legs
could carry me; and there in front were four horses harnessed to a great carriage, and in it
sat the old Earl and the Countess, and opposite them who but Lady Mary herself, and her brother,
Lord Strepp. Postilions rode two of the horses, and the carriage was surrounded by a dozen
mounted men.

Everybody was looking at the house and wondering why nobody was there to welcome them, and
very forbidding this stronghold must have seemed to those who expected to find the doors wide
open when they drove up. I undid the bolts of one of the diamond-paned windows, and, throwing
it open, leaned with my arms on the sill, my head and shoulders outside.

"Good day to your ladyship and your lordship," I cried,--and then all eyes were turned on me,--"I
have just this day come into my inheritance, and I fear the house is not in a state to receive
visitors. The rooms are all occupied by desperate men and armed; but I have given orders to
your servants to prepare the Manor House in the village for your accommodation; so, if you
will be so good as to drive across the valley, you will doubtless meet with a better reception
than I can give you at this moment. When you come again, if there are no ladies of the party,
I can guarantee you will have no complaint to make of the warmth of your reception."

His lordship sat dumb in his carriage, and for once her ladyship appeared to find difficulty
in choosing words that would do justice to her anger. I could not catch a glimpse of Lady Mary's
face at all at all, for she kept it turned toward the village; but young Lord Strepp rose in
the carriage, and, shaking his fist at me, said:

"By God, O'Ruddy, you shall pay for this;" but the effect of the words was somewhat weakened
by reason that his sister, Lady Mary, reached out and pulled him by the coat-tails, which caused
him to be seated more suddenly than he expected; then she gave me one rapid glance of her eye
and turned away her face again.

Now his lordship, the great Earl of Westport, spoke, but not to me.

"Drive to the village," he said to the postilions; then horsemen and carriage clattered down
the hill.

We kept watch all that night, but were not molested. In the southern part of the house Father
Donovan found a well-furnished chapel, and next morning held mass there, which had a very quieting
effect on the men, especially as Oxenbridge had not walked during the night. The only one of
them who did not attend mass was Jem Bottles, who said he was not well enough and therefore
would remain on watch. Just as mass was finished Jem appeared in the gallery of the chapel
and shouted excitedly:

"They're coming, sir; they're coming!"

I never before saw a congregation dismiss themselves so speedily. They were at their posts
even before Tom Peel could give the order. The opposing party was leaving the village and coming
down the hill when I first caught sight of them from an upper window. There seemed somewhere
between half a dozen and a dozen horsemen, and behind them a great mob of people on foot that
fairly covered the hillside. As they crossed the brook and began to come up, I saw that their
leader was young Lord Strepp himself, and Jem whispered that the horsemen behind him were the
very men he had encountered on the road between London and Maidstone. The cavalry were well
in advance, and it seemed that the amateur infantry took less and less pleasure in their excursion
the nearer they drew to the gloomy old house, so much so that Lord Strepp turned back among
them and appeared to be urging them to make haste. However, their slow progress may be explained
by the fact that a certain number of them were carrying a huge piece of timber, so heavy that
they had to stagger along cautiously.

"That," said Tom Peel, who stood at my elbow, "is to batter in the front door and take us by
storm. If you give the word, your honour, we can massacre the lot o' them before they get three
blows struck."

"Give command to the men, Peel," said I, "not to shoot any one if they can help it. Let them
hold their fire till they are within fifty yards or so of the front, then pass the word to
fire into the gravel of the terrace; and when you shoot let every man yell as if he were a
dozen, and keep dead silence till that moment. I'll hold up my hand when I want you to fire."

There was a deep stillness over all the beautiful landscape. The bushes and the wood, however,
were an exception to this, although the songs of the birds among the trees and singing of the
larks high in the air seemed not to disturb the silence; but the whole air of the country-side
was a suggestion of restful peace, at great variance with the designs of the inhabitants, who
were preparing to attack each other.

Father Donovan stood beside me, and I saw his lips moving in prayer; but his eyes were dancing
with irredeemable delight, while his breath came quick and expectant.

"I'm afraid those chaps will run at the first volley," he said, smiling at me. "They come on
very slowly and must be a great trial to the young lord that's leading them."

It was indeed a trial to the patience of all of us, for the time seemed incredibly long till
they arrived at the spot where I had determined they should at least hear the report of the
blunderbusses, although I hoped none of them would feel the effects of the firing. Indeed,
the horsemen themselves, with the exception of Lord Strepp, appeared to take little comfort
in their position, and were now more anxious to fall behind and urge on the others on foot
than to lead the band with his lordship.

I let them all get very close, then held up my hand, and you would think pandemonium was let
loose. I doubt if all the cannon in Cork would have made such a noise, and the heathen Indians
we read of in America could not have given so terrifying a yell as came from my nine men. The
blunderbusses were more dangerous than I supposed, and they tore up the gravel into a shower
of small stones that scattered far and wide, and made many a man fall down, thinking he was
shot. Then the mob ran away with a speed which made up for all lost time coming the other direction.
Cries of anguish were heard on every side, which made us all laugh, for we knew none of them
were hurted. The horses themselves seemed seized with panic; they plunged and kicked like mad,
two riders being thrown on the ground, while others galloped across the valley as if they were
running away; but I suspect that their owners were slyly spurring them on while pretending
they had lost control of them. Lord Strepp and one or two others, however, stood their ground,
and indeed his lordship spurred his horse up opposite the front door. One of my men drew a
pistol, but I shouted at him:

"Don't shoot at that man, whatever he does," and the weapon was lowered.

I opened the window and leaned out.

"Well, Lord Strepp," cried I, "'tis a valiant crowd you have behind you."

"You cursed highwayman," he cried, "what do you expect to make by this?"

"I expect to see some good foot-racing; but you are under an error in your appellation. I am
not a highwayman; it is Jem Bottles here who stopped nine of your men on the Maidstone road
and piled their saddles by the side of it. Is it new saddlery you have, or did you make a roadside
collection?"

"I'll have you out of that, if I have to burn the house over your head."

"I'll wager you'll not get any man, unless it's yourself, to come near enough to carry a torch
to it. You can easily have me out of this without burning the house. Tell your father I am
ready to compromise with him."

"Sir, you have no right in my father's house; and, to tell you the truth, I did not expect
such outlawry from a man who had shown himself to be a gentleman."

"Thank you for that, Lord Strepp; but, nevertheless, tell your father to try to cultivate a
conciliatory frame of mind, and let us talk the matter over as sensible men should."

"We cannot compromise with you, O'Ruddy," said Lord Strepp in a very determined tone, which
for the first time made me doubt the wisdom of my proceedings; for of course it was a compromise
I had in mind all the time, for I knew as well as Father Donovan that if he refused to settle
with me my position was entirely untenable.

"We cannot compromise with you," went on the young man. "You have no right, legal or moral,
to this place, and you know it. I have advised my father to make no terms with you. Good day
to you, sir."

And with that he galloped off, while I drew a very long face as I turned away.

"Father Donovan," I said, when I had closed the window, "I am not sure but your advice to me
on the way here was nearer right than I thought at the time."

"Oh, not a bit of it," cried Father Donovan cheerfully. "You heard what the young man said,
that he had advised his father not to make any terms with you. Very well, that means terms
have been proposed already; and this youth rejects the wisdom of age, which I have known to
be done before."

"You think, then, they will accept a conference?"

"I am sure of it. These men will not stand fire, and small blame to them. What chance have
they? As your captain says, he could annihilate the lot of them before they crushed in the
front door. The men who ran away have far more sense than that brainless spalpeen who led them
on, although I can see he is brave enough. One or two more useless attacks will lead him to
a more conciliatory frame of mind, unless he appeals to the law, which is what I thought he
would do; for I felt sure a sheriff would be in the van of attack. Just now you are opposed
only to the Earl of Westport; but, when the sheriff comes on, you're fornenst the might of
England."

This cheered me greatly, and after a while we had our dinner in peace. The long afternoon passed
slowly away, and there was no rally in the village, and no sign of a further advance; so night
came on and nothing had been done. After supper I said good-night to Father Donovan, threw
myself, dressed as I was, on the bed, and fell into a doze. It was toward midnight when Tom
Peel woke me up; that man seemed to sleep neither night nor day; and there he stood by my bed,
looking like a giant in the flicker of the candle-light.

"Your honour," he said, "I think there's something going on at the mouth of the tunnel. Twice
I've caught the glimpse of a light there, although they're evidently trying to conceal it."

I sat up in bed and said:

"What do you propose to do?"

"Well, there's a man inside here that knows the tunnel just as well as I do,--every inch of
it,--and he's up near the other end now. If a company begins coming in, my man will run back
without being seen and let us know. Now, sir, shall I timber this end, or shall we deal with
them at the top of the stair one by one as they come up. One good swordsman at the top of the
stair will prevent a thousand getting into the house."

"Peel," said I, "are there any stones outside, at the other end of the tunnel?"

"Plenty. There's a dyke of loose stones fronting it."

"Very well; if your man reports that any have entered the tunnel, they'll have left one or
two at the other end on guard; take you five of your most trusted men, and go you cautiously
a roundabout way until you are within striking distance of the men on guard. Watch the front
upper windows of this house; and if you see two lights displayed, you will know they are in
the tunnel. If you waited here till your man comes back, you would be too late; so go now,
and, if you see the two lights, overpower the men at the mouth of the tunnel unless they are
too many for you. If they are, then there's nothing to do but retreat. When you have captured
the guard, make them go down into the tunnel; then you and your men tear down the dyke and
fill the hole full of stones; I will guard this end of the passage."

Tom Peel pulled his forelock and was gone at once, delighted with his task. I knew that if
I got them once in the tunnel there would no longer be any question of a compromise, even if
Lord Strepp himself was leading them. I took two lighted candles with me and sat patiently
at the head of the stone stairway that led, in circular fashion, down into the depths. Half
an hour passed, but nothing happened, and I began to wonder whether or not they had captured
our man, when suddenly his face appeared.

"They are coming, sir," he cried, "by the dozen. Lord Strepp is leading them."

"Will they be here soon, do you think?"

"I cannot tell. First I saw torches appear, then Lord Strepp came down and began giving instructions,
and, after counting nearly a score of his followers, I came back as quick as I could."

"You've done nobly," said I. "Now stand here with this sword and prevent any man from coming up."

I took one of the candles, leaving him another, and lighted a third. I went up the stair and
set them in the front window; then I opened another window and listened. The night was exceedingly
still,--not even the sound of a cricket to be heard. After a few minutes, however, there came
a cry, instantly smothered, from the other side of the valley; another moment and I heard the
stones a rolling, as if the side of a wall had tumbled over, which indeed was the case; then
two lights were shown on the hill and were waved up and down; and although Peel and I had arranged
no signal, yet this being the counterpart of my own, I took to signify that they had been successful,
so, leaving the candles burning there, in case there might have been some mistake, I started
down the stair to the man who was guarding the secret passage.

"Has anything happened?"

"Nothing, sir."

I think the best part of an hour must have passed before there was sign or sound. Of course
I knew if the guards were flung down the hole, they would at once run after their comrades
and warn them that both ends of the tunnel were in our possession. I was well aware that the
imprisoned men might drag away the stones and ultimately win a passage out for themselves;
but I trusted that they would be panic-stricken when they found themselves caught like rats
in a trap. In any case it would be very difficult to remove stones from below in the tunnel,
because the space was narrow and few could labour at a time; then there was every chance that
the stones might jam, when nothing could be done. However, I told the man beside me to go across
the valley and ask Peel and his men to pile on rocks till he had a great heap above the entrance,
and, if not disturbed, to work till nearly daylight, so I sat on the top of the circular stair
step with my rapier across my knees, waiting so long that I began to fear they all might be
smothered, for I didn't know whether the stopping of air at one end would prevent it coming
in at the other, for I never heard my father say what took place in a case like that. Father
Donovan was in bed and asleep, and I was afraid to leave the guarding of the stair to any one
else. It seemed that hours and hours passed, and I began to wonder was daylight never going
to come, when the most welcome sound I ever heard was the well-known tones of a voice which
came up from the bottom of the well.

"Are you there, Mr. O'Ruddy?"

There was a subdued and chastened cadence in the inquiry that pleased me.

"I am, and waiting for you."

"May I come up?"

"Yes, and very welcome; but you'll remember, Lord Strepp, that you come up as a prisoner."

"I quite understand that, Mr. O'Ruddy."

So, as I held the candle, I saw the top of his head coming round and round and round, and finally
he stood before me stretching out his sword, hilt forward.

"Stick it in its scabbard," said I, "and I'll do the same with mine." Then I put out my hand,
"Good morning to your lordship," I said. "It seems to me I've been waiting here forty days
and forty nights. Will you have a sup of wine?"

"I would be very much obliged to you for it, Mr. O'Ruddy."

With that I called the nearest guard and bade him let nobody up the stair without my knowing it.

"I suppose, my lord, you are better acquainted with this house than I am; but I know a spot
where there's a drop of good drink."

"You have discovered the old gentleman's cellar, then?"

"Indeed, Lord Strepp, I have not. I possess a cellar of my own. It's you that's my guest, and
not me that's yours on this occasion."

I poured him out a flagon, and then one for myself, and as we stood by the table I lifted it
high and said:

"Here's to our better acquaintance."

His lordship drank, and said with a wry face, as he put down the mug:

"Our acquaintance seems to be a somewhat tempestuous one; but I confess, Mr. O'Ruddy, that
I have as great a respect for your generalship as I have for your swordsmanship. The wine is
good and revivifying. I've been in that accursed pit all night, and I came to this end of it
with greater reluctance than I expected to when I entered the other. We tried to clear away
the stones; but they must have piled all the rocks in Sussex on top of us. Are your men toiling
there yet?"

"Yes, they're there, and I gave them instructions to work till daylight."

"Well, Mr. O'Ruddy, my poor fellows are all half dead with fright, and they fancy themselves
choking; but although the place was foul enough when we entered it, I didn't see much difference
at the end. However, I did see one thing, and that was that I had to come and make terms. I
want you to let the poor devils go, Mr. O'Ruddy, and I'll be parole that they won't attack
you again."

"And who will give his parole that Lord Strepp will not attack me again?"

"Well, O'Ruddy,"--I took great comfort from the fact that he dropped the Mr.,--"Well, O'Ruddy,
you see we cannot possibly give up this estate. You are not legally entitled to it. It is ours
and always has been."

"I'm not fighting for any estate, Lord Strepp."

"Then, in Heaven's name, what are you fighting for?"

"For the consent of the Earl and Countess of Westport to my marriage with Lady Mary, your sister."

Lord Strepp gave a long whistle; then he laughed and sat down in the nearest chair.

"But what does Mary say about it?" he asked at last.

"The conceit of an Irishman, my lord, leads me to suspect that I can ultimately overcome any
objections she may put forward."

"Oho! that is how the land lies, is it? I'm a thick-headed clod, or I would have suspected
something of that sort when Mary pulled me down so sharply as I was cursing you at the front
door." Then, with a slight touch of patronage in his tone, he said:

"There is some difference in the relative positions of our families, Mr. O'Ruddy."

"Oh, I'm quite willing to waive that," said I. "Of course it isn't usual for the descendant
of kings, like myself, to marry a daughter of the mere nobility; but Lady Mary is so very charming
that she more than makes up for any discrepancy, whatever may be said for the rest of the family."

At this Lord Strepp threw back his head and laughed again joyously, crying,--

"King O'Ruddy, fill me another cup of your wine, and I'll drink to your marriage."

We drank, and then he said:

"I'm a selfish beast, guzzling here when those poor devils think they're smothering down below.
Well, O'Ruddy, will you let my unlucky fellows go?"

"I'll do that instantly," said I, and so we went to the head of the circular stair and sent
the guard down to shout to them to come on, and by this time the daylight was beginning to
turn the upper windows grey. A very bedraggled stream of badly frightened men began crawling
up and up and up the stairway, and as Tom Peel had now returned I asked him to open the front
door and let the yeomen out. Once on the terrace in front, the men seemed not to be able to
move away, but stood there drawing in deep breaths of air as if they had never tasted it before.
Lord Strepp, in the daylight, counted the mob, asking them if they were sure every one had
come up, but they all seemed to be there, though I sent Tom Peel down along the tunnel to find
if any had been left behind.

Lord Strepp shook hands most cordially with me at the front door.

"Thank you for your hospitality, O'Ruddy," he said, "although I came in by the lower entrance.
I will send over a flag of truce when I've seen my father; then I hope you will trust yourself
to come to the Manor House and have a talk with him."

"I'll do it with pleasure," said I.

"Good morning to you," said Lord Strepp.

"And the top o' the morning to you, which is exactly what we are getting at this moment, though
in ten minutes I hope to be asleep."

"So do I," said Lord Strepp, setting off at a run down the slope.

CHAPTER XXXIII

Once more I went to my bed, but this time with my clothes off, for if there was to be a conference
with the Earl and the Countess at the Manor House, not to speak of the chance of seeing Lady
Mary herself, I wished to put on the new and gorgeous suit I had bought in London for that
occasion, and which had not yet been on my back. I was so excited and so delighted with the
thought of seeing Lady Mary that I knew I could not sleep a wink, especially as daylight was
upon me, but I had scarcely put my head on the pillow when I was as sound asleep as any of
my ancestors, the old Kings of Kinsale. The first thing I knew Paddy was shaking me by the
shoulder just a little rougher than a well-trained servant should.

"Beggin' your pardon," says he, "his lordship, the great Earl of Westport, sends word by a
messenger that he'll be pleased to have account with ye, at your early convenience, over at
the Manor House beyond."

"Very well, Paddy," said I, "ask the messenger to take my compliments to the Earl and say to
him I will do myself the honour of calling on him in an hour's time. Deliver that message to
him; then come back and help me on with my new duds."

When Paddy returned I was still yawning, but in the shake of a shillelah he had me inside the
new costume, and he stood back against the wall with his hand raised in amazement and admiration
at the glory he beheld. He said after that kings would be nothing to him, and indeed the tailor
had done his best and had won his guineas with more honesty than you'd expect from a London
tradesman. I was quietly pleased with the result myself.

I noticed with astonishment that it was long after mid-day, so it occurred to me that Lord
Strepp must have had a good sleep himself, and sure the poor boy needed it, for it's no pleasure
to spend life underground till after you're dead, and his evening in the tunnel must have been
very trying to him, as indeed he admitted to me afterward that it was.

I called on Father Donovan, and he looked me over from head to foot with wonder and joy in his eye.

"My dear lad, you're a credit to the O'Ruddys," he said, "and to Ireland," he said, "and to
the Old Head of Kinsale," he said.

"And to that little tailor in London as well," I replied, turning around so that he might see
me the better.

In spite of my chiding him Paddy could not contain his delight, and danced about the room like
an overgrown monkey.

"Paddy," said I, "you're making a fool of yourself."

Then I addressed his Reverence.

"Father Donovan," I began, "this cruel war is over and done with, and no one hurt and no blood
shed, so the Earl--"

At this moment there was a crash and an unearthly scream, then a thud that sounded as if it
had happened in the middle of the earth. Father Donovan and I looked around in alarm, but Paddy
was nowhere to be seen. Toward the wall there was a square black hole, and, rushing up to it,
we knew at once what had happened. Paddy had danced a bit too heavy on an old trap-door, and
the rusty bolts had broken. It had let him down into a dungeon that had no other entrance;
and indeed this was a queer house entirely, with many odd nooks and corners about it, besides
the disadvantage of Sir Goddard Oxenbridge tramping through the rooms in two sections.

"For the love of Heaven and all the Saints," I cried down this trap-door, "Paddy, what has
happened to you?"

"Sure, sir, the house has fallen on me."

"Nothing of the kind, Paddy. The house is where it always was. Are you hurted?"

"I'm dead and done for completely this time, sir. Sure I feel I'm with the angels at last."

"Tut, tut, Paddy, my lad; you've gone in the wrong direction altogether for them."

"Oh, I'm dying, and I feel the flutter of their wings," and as he spoke two or three ugly blind
bats fluttered up and butted their stupid heads against the wall.

"You've gone in the right direction for the wrong kind of angels, Paddy; but don't be feared,
they're only bats, like them in my own tower at home, except they're larger."

I called for Tom Peel, as he knew the place well.

"Many a good cask of brandy has gone down that trap-door," said he, "and the people opposite
have searched this house from cellar to garret and never made the discovery Paddy did a moment
since."

He got a stout rope and sent a man down, who found Paddy much more frightened than hurt. We
hoisted both of them up, and Paddy was a sight to behold.

"Bad luck to ye," says I; "just at the moment I want a presentable lad behind me when I'm paying
my respects to the Earl of Westport, you must go diving into the refuse heap of a house that
doesn't belong to you, and spoiling the clothes that does. Paddy, if you were in a seven years'
war, you would be the first man wounded and the last man killed, with all the trouble for nothing
in between. Is there anything broken about ye?"

"Every leg and arm I've got is broken," he whimpered, but Father Donovan, who was nearly as
much of a surgeon as a priest, passed his hand over the trembling lad, then smote him on the
back, and said the exercise of falling had done him good.

"Get on with you," said I, "and get off with those clothes. Wash yourself, and put on the suit
I was wearing yesterday, and see that you don't fall in the water-jug and drown yourself."

I gave the order for Tom Peel to saddle the four horses and get six of his men with swords
and pistols and blunderbusses to act as an escort for me.

"Are you going back to Rye, your honour?" asked Peel.

"I am not. I am going to the Manor House."

"That's but a step," he cried in surprise.

"It's a step," said I, "that will be taken with dignity and consequence."

So, with the afternoon sun shining in our faces, we set out from the house of Brede, leaving
but few men to guard it. Of course I ran the risk that it might be taken in our absence; but
I trusted the word of Lord Strepp as much as I distrusted the designs of his father and mother,
and Strepp had been the captain of the expedition against us; but if I had been sure the mansion
was lost to me, I would have evaded none of the pomp of my march to the Manor House in the
face of such pride as these upstarts of Westports exhibited toward a representative of a really
ancient family like the O'Ruddy. So his Reverence and I rode slowly side by side, with Jem
and Paddy, also on horseback, a decent interval behind us, and tramping in their wake that
giant, Tom Peel, with six men nearly as stalwart as himself, their blunderbusses over their
shoulders, following him. It struck panic in the village when they saw this terrible array
marching up the hill toward them, with the sun glittering on us as if we were walking jewellery.
The villagers, expecting to be torn limb from limb, scuttled away into the forest, leaving
the place as empty as a bottle of beer after a wake. Even the guards around the Manor House
fled as we approached it, for the fame of our turbulence had spread abroad in the land. Lord
Strepp tried to persuade them that nothing would happen to them, for when he saw the style
in which we were coming he was anxious to make a show from the Westport side and had drawn
up his men in line to receive us. But we rode through a silent village that might have been
just sacked by the French. I thought afterward that this desertion had a subduing effect on
the old Earl's pride, and made him more easy to deal with. In any case his manner was somewhat
abated when he received me. Lord Strepp himself was there at the door, making excuses for the
servants, who he said had gone to the fields to pick berries for their supper. So, leaving
Paddy to hold one horse and Jem the other, with the seven men drawn up fiercely in front of
the Manor House, Father Donovan and myself followed Lord Strepp into a large room, and there,
buried in an arm-chair, reclined the aged Earl of Westport, looking none too pleased to meet
his visitors. In cases like this it's as well to be genial at the first, so that you may remove
the tension in the beginning.

"The top of the morning--I beg your pardon--the tail of the afternoon to you, sir, and I hope
I see you well."

"I am very well," said his lordship, more gruffly than politely.

"Permit me to introduce to your lordship, his Reverence, Father Donovan, who has kindly consented
to accompany me that he may yield testimony to the long-standing respectability of the House
of O'Ruddy."

"I am pleased to meet your Reverence," said the Earl, although his appearance belied his words.
He wasn't pleased to meet either of us, if one might judge by his lowering countenance, in
spite of my cordiality and my wish to make his surrender as easy for him as possible.

I was disappointed not to see the Countess and Lady Mary in the room, for it seemed a pity
that such a costume as mine should be wasted on an old curmudgeon, sitting with his chin in
his breast in the depths of an easy-chair, looking daggers though he spoke dumplings.

I was just going to express my regret to Lord Strepp that no ladies were to be present in our
assemblage, when the door opened, and who should sail in, like a full-rigged man-o'-war, but
the Countess herself, and Lady Mary, like an elegant yacht floating in tow of her. I swept
my bonnet to the boards of the floor with a gesture that would have done honour to the Court
of France; but her Ladyship tossed her nose higher in the air, as if the man-o'-war had encountered
a huge wave. She seated herself with emphasis on a chair, and says I to myself, "It's lucky
for you, you haven't Paddy's trap-door under you, or we'd see your heels disappear, coming
down like that."

Lady Mary very modestly took up her position standing behind her mother's chair, and, after
one timid glance at me, dropped her eyes on the floor, and then there were some moments of
silence, as if every one was afraid to begin. I saw I was going to have trouble with the Countess,
and although I think it will be admitted by my enemies that I'm as brave a man as ever faced
a foe, I was reluctant to throw down the gage of battle to the old lady.

It was young Lord Strepp that began, and he spoke most politely, as was his custom.

"I took the liberty of sending for you, Mr. O'Ruddy, and I thank you for responding so quickly
to my invitation. The occurrences of the past day or two, it would be wiser perhaps to ignore--"

At this there was an indignant sniff from the Countess, and I feared she was going to open
her batteries, but to my amazement she kept silent, although the effort made her red in the face.

"I have told my father and mother," went on Lord Strepp, "that I had some conversation with
you this morning, and that conditions might be arrived at satisfactory to all parties concerned.
I have said nothing to my parents regarding the nature of these conditions, but I gained their
consent to give consideration to anything you might say, and to any proposal you are good enough
to make."

The old gentleman mumbled something incomprehensible in his chair, but the old lady could keep
silence no longer.

"This is an outrage," she cried, "the man's action has been scandalous and unlawful. If, instead
of bringing those filthy scoundrels against our own house, those cowards that ran away as soon
as they heard the sound of a blunderbuss, we had all stayed in London, and you had had the
law of him, he would have been in gaol by this time and not standing brazenly there in the
Manor House of Brede."

And after saying this she sniffed again, having no appreciation of good manners.

"Your ladyship has been misinformed," I said with extreme deference. "The case is already in
the hands of dignified men of law, who are mightily pleased with it."

"Pleased with it, you idiot," she cried. "They are pleased with it simply because they know
somebody will pay them for their work, even it's a beggar from Ireland, who has nothing on
him but rags."

"Your ladyship," said I, not loath to call attention to my costume, "I assure you these rags
cost golden guineas in London."

"Well, you will not get golden guineas from Brede estate," snapped her ladyship.

"Again your ladyship is misinformed. The papers are so perfect, and so well do they confirm
my title to this beautiful domain, that the money-lenders of London simply bothered the life
out of me trying to shovel gold on me, and both his lordship and your ladyship know that if
a title is defective there is no money to be lent on it."

