I turned out and took a look at the scene of impending tragedy. The three unconscious officers
on three camp-beds were lying out in the middle of a sea of mud like three lone islets. Their
shuddering subordinates were taking cover at long range, whispering among themselves and crouching
in attitudes of dreadful expectancy like men awaiting the explosion of a mine or the cracking
of Doom. As explosions of those dimensions are liable to be impartial in their attentions I
took horse and rode afield. But according to my batman, who braved it out, the Lieutenant woke
up first, exploded noisily and detonated the Field Officer who in turn detonated the Colonel.
In the words of my batman--"They went orf one, two, three, Sir, for orl the world like a machine
gun, a neighteen-pounder and an How-Pop-pop! Whizz-bang! Boom!--very 'eavy cas-u-alities, Sir."
PATLANDER.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "A man who was looking at some sheep under the wire saw the flash
    pass close to him with simultaneous thunder, the sheep being
    unharmed. Still one or two complained of their legs feeling numb."
    --Parochial Magazine.

Who said Baalamb?

       *       *       *       *       *

    "There is no saying how Kinglake's history might have otherwise
    read had not a round shot put a premature end to Korniloff's
    career at the Malakoff whence M'Mahon was to send his famous
    message, 'J'y, j'reste.'"--Manchester Evening Chronicle.

There is no saying how anybody's history will read if time-honoured sayings may be treated
like this.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "We are inclined to attribute the form as well as the substance
    of the Note to the aloofness from the practical affairs of the
    outside world which seems to exist in the Vatican."--Times.

The POPE may or may not be behind the times, but as our contemporary signed the Papal Peace
Note, "BENEDICTUS XVI." it is plain that The Times is ahead of the POPE.

       *       *       *       *       *

Extract from a letter recently received by a manufacturing firm:--

    "We are pleased to be able to inform you that we have seen the
    Munitions Area delusion officer at ----, and he has informed us
    that he would not hesitate to grant Protection Certificates for
    these men."

We sympathise too much with Labour to care to see it labouring under a delusion officer.

       *       *       *       *       *

HEART-TO-HEART TALKS.

(Herr MICHAELIS: Marshal VON HINDENBURG.)

Herr M. Good morning, my dear Marshal. I am glad we have been able to arrange a meeting, for
there are certain points I wish to settle with you.

Von H. I am, as always, at your Excellency's service; only I beg that the interview may not
be prolonged beyond what is strictly needful. Time presses, and much remains to be done everywhere.

Herr M. But I have the commands of the ALL-HIGHEST to speak with you on some weighty matters.
He himself, as you know, has several speeches to make to-day.

Von H. Oh, those speeches! How well I know them. I could almost make them myself if I wanted
to make speeches, which, God be thanked, I do not need to do.

Herr M. No, indeed. Your reputation rests on foundations firmer than speeches.

Von H. You yourself, Excellency, have lately discovered how fallacious a thing is a speech,
even where the speaker honestly tries to do his best to please everybody.

Herr M. You are very kind, my dear Marshal, to speak thus of my humble effort. The result of
it has certainly disappointed me.

Von H. What was it that LEDEBOUR said of it? Did he not describe it as "a political hocus-pocus"?
Such men ought to be at once taken out and shot. But we Prussians have always been too gentle
in our methods.

Herr M. We have. It is perhaps our only fault; but this time we must see that we correct it.
In any case, to be so misunderstood is most painful, especially when one has employed all one's
tact.

Von H. Ah, tact. That is what you are celebrated for, is it not?

Herr M. HIS IMPERIAL MAJESTY has more than once been graciously pleased to compliment me upon
it. And he, if anyone, is a judge of tact, is he not?

Von H. I have not myself any knowledge of it, so I cannot say for certain. Does it perhaps
mean what you do when you entirely forget in one speech what you have said or omitted to say
in a previous speech?

Herr M. (aside). The old fellow is not, after all, so thick-skulled as I thought him. (Aloud)
I will not ask you to discuss this subject any more, but will proceed to lay before you the
commands of HIS MAJESTY.

Von H. I shall be glad to hear them.

Herr M. Well, then, to cut the matter as short as possible, HIS MAJESTY insists that there
shall be a victory on the Western Front.

Von H. A victory?

Herr M. Yes, a victory. A real one, mind, not a made-up affair like the capture of Langemarck,
which, though it was certainly captured, was not captured by us, but by the accursed English.
May Heaven destroy them!

Von H. But it was by HIS MAJESTY'S orders that we announced the capture of Langemarck.

Herr M. I know; but he is graciously pleased to forget that, and to desire a genuine victory now.

Von H. Tell him I cannot promise. We have done our best at Verdun, at Lens and at Ypres, but
we have had to retreat everywhere. Our turn may come another time, but, as I say, I cannot promise.

Herr M. Please go on doing your best. It is so annoying and temper-spoiling for HIS MAJESTY
to make so many speeches of a fiery kind, and never to have a victory--at least not a real
one for which Berlin can hang out flags. Besides, if we don't get a victory how shall we ever
get a good German peace? And peace we must have, and that very soon.

Von H. Don't talk to me of peace. War is my business, not peace; and if I am to carry on war
there must be no interference. If the ALL-HIGHEST does not like that, let him take the chief
command himself.

Herr M. God forbid!

       *       *       *       *       *

LINES TO A HUN AIRMAN,

WHO AROUSED THE DETACHMENT ON A CHILLY MORNING, AT 2.30 A.M.

  Oh, come again, but at another time;
    Choose some more fitting moment to appear,
  For even in fair Gallia's sunny clime
    The dawns are chilly at this time of year.

  I did not go to bed till one last night,
    I was on guard, and, pacing up and down,
  Gazed often on the sky where every light
    Flamed like a gem in Night's imperial crown;

  And when the clamant rattle's hideous sound
    Roused me from sleep, in a far distant land
  My spirit moved and trod familiar ground,
    Where a Young Hopeful sat at my right hand.

  There was a spotless cloth upon the board,
    Thin bread-and-butter was upon me pressed,
  And China tea in a frail cup was poured--
    Then I rushed forth inadequately dressed.

  Lo! the poor Sergeant in a shrunken shirt,
    His manly limbs exposed to morning's dew,
  His massive feet all paddling in the dirt--
    Such sights should move the heart of even you.

  The worthy Corporal, sage in looks and speeches,
    Holds up his trousers with a trembling hand;
  Lucky for him he slumbered in his breeches--
    The most clothed man of all our shivering band.

  The wretched gunners cluster on the gun,
    Clasping the clammy breech and slippery shells;
  If 'tis a joke they do not see the fun
    And damn you to the worst of DANTE'S hells.

  And Sub-Lieutenant Blank, that martial man,
    Shows his pyjamas to a startled world,
  And shivers in the foremost of our van
    The while our H.E. shells are upwards hurled.

  You vanish, not ten centimes worth the worse
    For all our noise, so far as we can tell;
  The blest "Stand easy" comes; with many a curse
    We hurry to the tents named after Bell.[1]

  In two brief hours we must arise and shine!
    O willow-waly! Would I were at home
  Where leisurely I breakfasted at nine
    And warm and fed went officeward to roam!

  So come again, but at another time,
    Say after breakfast or some hour like that,
  Or I will strafe you with a viler rhyme--
    I will, by Jove! or eat my shell-proof hat.

[Footnote 1: On second thoughts I don't believe they are named after anyone, but "Bell" rhymes
comfortably with "tell," so it may stand.]

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The Rev. T.F. ---- officiated in the church yesterday for the
    first time since his return from a four months' spell of work in
    connection with the Y.M.C.A. Huns in France."--Provincial Paper.

We congratulate him upon his discovery of this hitherto unknown tribe.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LITTLE MATCH-GIRL.

(With apologies to the shade of HANS ANDERSEN.)

It was late on a bitterly cold showery evening of Autumn. A poor little girl was wandering
in the cold wet streets. She wore a hat on her head and on her feet she wore boots. ANDERSEN
sent her out without a hat and in boots five sizes too large for her. But as a member of the
Children's Welfare League I do not consider that right. She carried a quantity of matches (ten
boxes to be exact) in her old apron. Nobody had bought any of her matches during the whole
long day. And since the Summer-Time Act was still in force it was even longer than it would
have been in ANDERSEN's time.

The streets through which she passed were deserted. No sounds, not even the reassuring shrieks
of taxi-whistles, were to be heard, for it costs you forty shillings now (or is it five pounds?)
to engage a taxi by whistle, and people simply can't afford it. Clearly she would do no business
in the byways, so she struck into a main thoroughfare. At once she was besieged by buyers.
They guessed she was the little match-girl because she struck a match from time to time just
to show that they worked. Also, she liked to see the blaze. She would not have selected this
branch of war-work had she not been naturally fond of matches.

They crowded round her, asking eagerly, "How much a box?" Now her mother had told her to sell
them at a shilling a box. But the little girl had heard much talk of war-profits, and since
nobody had given her any she thought she might as well earn some. So she asked five shillings
a box. And since these were the last matches seen in England it was not long before she had
sold all the ten boxes (including the ones containing the burnt ends of the matches she had
struck to attract custom).

The little girl then went to the nearest post-office and purchased two pounds' worth of War
Loan. The ten shillings which remained she took home to her mother, and since the good woman
did not understand the principles of profiteering she was well pleased.

But alas for the little girl! one of her customers, doubting the honesty of her intentions,
had informed the policeman. She was subsequently taken into custody, and the magistrate is
now faced with the problem as to whether she is a good little girl in that she put money into
War Loan, or a bad little girl in that she followed the example of the profiteers.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR HELPFUL PRESS.

From a recipe for jam:--

    "Add the fruit and boil 40 minutes. Glucose and sugar in equal
    parts can be used if sugar is unobtainable."--Daily Sketch.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "To lease or rent a fine family residence, healthy locality, one
    mile from Mandeville fully furnished with good accommodation for
    a large family standing on ten acres of good grazing land with
    many fruit trees has two large tanks, recently occupied by judge
    Reece."--Daily Gleaner (Jamaica).

Anything for coolness.

       *       *       *       *       *

Extract from a speech by Mr. BROMLEY on the eight-hours' day:--

    "They had endeavoured after long weary waiting to bring to
    fruition in due time what had been the first plank in their
    programme for thirteen years."--Morning Paper.

But the plank, as might be expected, has, as fruit-growers say, "run to wood."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PASSING OF THE COD'S HEAD.

(A Romance of Chiswick Mall.)

  It was because the dustman did not come;
    It was because our cat was overfed,
  And, gorged with some superior pabulum,
    Declined to touch the cod's disgusting head;
  It was because the weather was too warm
    To hide the horror in the refuse-bin,
  And too intense the perfume of its form,
    My wife commanded me to do the sin,
  To take and cast it in the twinkling Thames--
    A practice which the neighbourhood condemns.

  So on the midnight, with a strong cigar
    And scented handkerchief, I tiptoed near,
  But felt the exotic fragrance from afar;
    I thought of ARTHUR and Sir BEDIVERE:
  And it seemed best to leave it on the plate,
    So strode I back and told my curious spouse
  "I heard the high tide lap along the Eyot,
    And the wild water at the barge's bows."
  She said, "O treacherous! O heart of clay!
    Go back and throw the smelly thing away."

  Thereat I seized it, and with guilty shoon
    Stole out indignant to the water's marge;
  Its eyes like emeralds caught the affronted moon;
    The stars conspired to make the thing look large;
  Surely all Chiswick would perceive my shame!
    I clutched the indecency and whirled it round
  And flung it from me like a torch in flame,
    And a great wailing swept across the sound,
  As though the deep were calling back its kith.
    I said, "It will go down to Hammersmith.

  "It will go down beyond the Chelsea flats,
    And hang with barges under Battersea,
  Will press past Wapping with decaying cats,
    And the dead dog shall bear it company;
  Small bathing boys shall feel its clammy prod,
    And think some jellyfish has fled the surge;
  And so 'twill win to where the tribe of cod
    In its own ooze intones a fitting dirge,
  And after that some false and impious fish
    Will likely have it for a breakfast dish."

  The morning dawned. The tide had stripped the shore;
    And that foul shape I fancied so remote
  Lay stark below, just opposite next-door!
    Who would have said a cod's head could not float?
  No more my neighbour in his garden sits;
    My callers now regard the view with groans;
  For tides may roll and rot the fleshly bits,
    But what shall mortify those ageless bones?
  How shall I bear to hear my grandsons say,
    "Look at the fish that grand-dad threw away"?

  A.P.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

From a South African produce-merchant's letter:--

    "As so many of our clients were disappointed last year ... we are
    taking time by the fetlock and offering you this excellent quality
    seed now."

To be sure of stopping Father Time you must collar low.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

WAR-TIME WALKS.

    (With apologies to a contemporary for cutting the ground
    from under its feet, and to our readers for omitting certain
    names--in deference to the Censor.)

Owing to the War one must save money and spend as little as possible on fares when rambling
for pleasure. The following itinerary will be found quite an inexpensive one, though offering
plenty of interest. Take the train to ----. Leave the station by the exit on the south side,
and turn to the right under the railway bridge, taking the path by the stream till you come
to a bridge which crosses it.

Do not cross the stream, however, but turn sharply to the right (opposite a rather pretentious-looking
house) for two hundred yards or so, when you will come to a park. A little before entering
the park you will see, lying not far from the road on the left, a remarkable old monastery
church, much restored. This contains some fine old painted glass, some tombs and monumental
inscriptions which are worth a visit if time will allow.

There is a right of way through the park up to the house, which belongs to the Earl of C----,
but is not of great architectural interest. Bear to the right in front of the house, along
a path which skirts the wall of the private grounds. At the end of the wall a gateway leads
into the high road, and a walk of under two miles will bring you to the, at one time, pretty
village of K----, which has, however, grown rapidly into a thriving town. Before reaching the
parish church there is a hostelry on the right-hand side of the road where an excellent tea
may be obtained (so far as the food regulations will allow).

On leaving the inn, turn through a gateway at the side of it, which gives on to a straight
and rather uninteresting road, which has been considerably built upon and is more or less private,
though a right of way has been preserved through it. A glimpse of a large mansion, chiefly
of the 17th century, and now in the possession of the W----s, may be obtained through the trees
on the right of the road.

When you come to the main road (at the far end of this semi-private road) turn to the right,
and just where the gibbet used to stand, so it is said, in the good old days, there is a sharp
left-angled turn which leads to the village of E----. Keep straight on, however, for a mile
or two (notice the fine old timbered houses on the right of the footpath opposite the old boundary-post),
and then turn to the right by the church, rebuilt in the 17th century on the site of an older
and finer one, whose spire was at one time a noted landmark.

A walk through the churchyard to the church porch brings you to the brow of a hill. Descend
this to the cross-roads at the bottom, but, instead of turning to either hand, keep to the
narrow road in front till you come to a gateway on the left. This leads to a house which formerly
belonged to the Knights Templars, but which passed into the hands of the L----s and is still
in their possession. There is an interesting chapel in the grounds, containing the tombs of
some of the former owners, whose deeds were more warlike, though probably less numerous, than
those of the present occupants.

From here an easy walk up the Strand will bring you to the starting point, Charing Cross Embankment
Station, where you can take the train again; but if you are fit and between the ages of forty-one
and fifty, you can continue the walk till you reach the nearest Recruiting Office.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Happy Home offered slight Mental Youth or otherwise."--Times.

A chance for one of our slim conscientious objectors.

       *       *       *       *       *

LINES ON RE-READING "BLEAK HOUSE."

  There was a time when, posing as a purist,
    I thought it fine to criticise and crab
  CHARLES DICKENS as a crude caricaturist,
    Who laid his colours on too thick and slab,
  Who was a sort of sentimental tourist
    And made life lurid when it should be drab;
  In short I branded as a brilliant dauber
  The man who gave us Pecksniff and Micawber.

  True, there are blots--like spots upon the sun--
    And genius, lavish of imagination,
  In sheer profusion always has outrun
    The bounds of strict artistic concentration;
  But when detraction's worst is said and done,
    How much remains for fervent admiration,
  How much that never palls or wounds or sickens
  (Unlike some moderns) in great generous DICKENS!

  And in Bleak House, the culminating story
    That marks the zenith of his swift career,
  All the great qualities that won him glory,
    As writer and reformer too, appear:
  Righteous resentment of abuses hoary,
    Of pomp and cant, self-centred, insincere;
  And burning sympathy that glows unchecked
    For those who sit in darkness and neglect.

  Who, if his heart be not of steel or stone,
    Can read unmoved of Charley or of Jo;
  Of dear Miss Flite, who, though her wits be flown,
    Has kept a soul as pure as driven snow;
  Of the fierce "man from Shropshire" overthrown
    By Law's delays; of Caddy's inky woe;
  Or of the alternating fits and fluster
  That harass the unhappy slavey, Guster?

  And there are scores of characters so vivid
    They make us friends or enemies for life:
  Hortense, half-tamed she-wolf, with envy livid;
    The patient Snagsby and his shrewish wife;
  The amorous Guppy, who poor Esther chivvied;
    Tempestuous Boythorn, revelling in strife;
  Skimpole, the honey-tongued artistic cadger;
  And that tremendous woman, Mrs. Badger.

  No wonder then that, when we seek awhile
    Relief and respite from War's strident chorus,
  Few books more swiftly charm us to a smile,
    Few books more truly hearten and restore us
  Than his, whose art was potent to beguile
    Thousands of weary souls who came before us--
  No wonder, when the Huns, who ban our fiction,
  Were fain to free him from their malediction.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "WHAT PEOPLE SAY.

    "One of the collectors for the ---- Hospital Sunday fund seems to
    have got more than either he or the committee desired.

    "On approaching a house he was received by a dog which persisted in
    leaving its compliments on one of his legs.

    "Happily the injury, though treated by a chemist, was not serious."
    --Provincial Paper.

People ought not to say these things about chemists.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "ESCAPED GERMAN FLYING MEN.

    "One of the men is Lieut. Josef Flink. He has a gunshot wound in
    the palm of the left hand. The second is Orbum Alexander von
    Schutz, with side-whispers. Both speak very little English."
    --Southern Echo.

But VON SCHUTZ's sotto-voce rendering of the "Hymn of Hate" is immense.

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE PLAY.

"THE INVISIBLE FOE."

MR. H.B. IRVING has elected to play villain in a new mystery play by Mr. WALTER HACKETT. Essential
elements of the business as follows: Obstinate old millstone of a shipbuilder, Bransby, who
simply will not give up shipbuilding for aeroplane making (and no wonder in these days!); nephew
Stephen, with an unwholesome hankering after power and a complete inability to see the obvious;
nephew Hugh, lieutenant lately gazetted, with much more wholesome and intelligent hankering
after Helen Bransby; Clerk, mouldy, faithful, one who discovers deficit in the West African
ledger to the extent of ten thousand pounds.

The false entries are in the hand of Hugh, but Stephen's sinister eye and shocking suit of
solemn black promptly give him away to the audience, while with a gorgeous fatuity he gives
himself away to his uncle by writing out his brother's resignation of the King's Commission
(in itself an odd thing to do) in the very hand he had so adroitly practised in order to manipulate
the ledger. Whereupon, at Bransby's dictation, Stephen writes a full confession, leaving the
house in an acutely disgruntled frame of mind. The old man puts the confession quite naturally
(the firm is like that) between the leaves of his David Copperfield, and dies of heart failure.

So Stephen is again up on Hugh at the turn. Indeed in the six months that have elapsed between
Acts I. and II. many things have happened, and neglected to happen. Stephen has become by common
report a great man, pillar of the house of Bransby, which now makes aeroplanes like anything.
He has been too busy getting power even to look into his uncle's papers (though executor),
or to have the West African ledger taken back to the office, or, queerest of all, to discover
and destroy that damning confession. However, having got his power, he now proceeds to consolidate
it by trying to find the missing document.

On the same day Helen arrives unexpectedly, urged thereto by a vague impression inspired by
her dead father that Hugh's innocence will be established by something found in the fateful
room; also Hugh, who had enlisted and now comes back from France a sergeant, with the same
idea in his head and from the same source. As we had all seen the paper's hiding-place I found
it a little difficult to be impressed by the elaborate efforts, unconscionably long drawn out,
of the departed spirit to disclose the matter to Helen and Hugh; while the masterly inactivity
of Stephen, who was trying to find his document by pure reason (mere looking for it would not
occur to his Napoleonic brain), confirmed the opinion I had earlier formed of that solemn ass.
However, his invisible foe does contrive to get his message through to the lovers and smash
up Stephen and his bubble of power.

I can't help being surprised that Mr. H.B. IRVING should have been satisfied with so impossible
a character as Stephen Pryde, though I need not add that he made most effective play with the
terror of an evil conscience haunted by the vengeful dead, throwing away his consonants rather
recklessly in the process and receiving the plaudits of an enthusiastic audience.

I grant Mr. HACKETT freely his effects of eeriness and his sound judgment in manipulating his
ghost without materialising him; and congratulate him particularly on the part of the vague
American lady, most capably performed by Miss MARION LORNE.

Miss FAY COMPTON made a pretty lover and plausible clairvoyante. Mr. SYDNEY VALENTINE'S portrait
was (yes!) masterly; and Mr. TOM REYNOLDS is excellent as the confidential clerk. Mr. HOLMAN
CLARK struck me (without surprise) as slightly bored with his part of a Doctor who lost his
patient in the first Act and remained as a convenient peg for the plot. His adroit method ensures
smooth playing and pulls a cast together. T.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

PLAYING THE GAME.

After we had finally arranged the cricket match--Convalescents versus the Village--for the
benefit of the Serbian Relief Fund, we remembered that early in the year the cricket-field
had been selected for the site of the village potato-patch, and my favourite end of the pitch--the
one without the cross-furrow--was now in full blossom.

As the cricket-field is the only level piece of ground in the district, the cricket committee
began to lose its grip upon the situation, and were only saved from ignominious failure by
the enterprise of the British Army, in this case represented by Sergeant-Major Kippy, D.C.M.,
who was recovering in the best of spirits from his third blighty one.

"'Ow about the Colonel's back gardin?" he suggested. "There's a lovely bit o' turf there."

We remembered the perfect and spacious lawn, scarcely less level than a billiard-table, and,
even with the Colonel busy on the East Coast, the committee were unanimously adverse to the
suggestion. But Kippy, born within hail of a Kentish cricket-field, was not to be denied, and,
after all, one cannot haggle about a mere garden with someone who was with the first battalions
over the Messines Ridge.

Thus the affair was taken out of our hands, and when the day arrived we pitched the stumps
where Kippy, giving due consideration to the Colonel's foliage, thought the light was most
advantageous.

The Village won the toss, and old Tom Pratt took guard and proceeded to dig himself in by making
what he termed his "block-hole." I visualised the choleric blue eye of the Colonel and shuddered.

For a time matters proceeded uneventfully. Then, at the fall of the fourth wicket, the game
suddenly developed, Jim Butcher, batting at the pergola end, giving us an exhibition of his
famous scoop shot, which landed full pitch through the drawing-room window. It was a catastrophe
of such dimensions that even the boldest spirit quailed before it, and the Colonel's butler,
batting at the other end, immediately dissociated himself from the proceedings and bolted from
the field.

Kippy, as befitted a warrior of parts, was the first to recover.

"'Ere," he exclaimed, "we carn't 'ave this; wot do you think the Colonel will say?"

I do not suppose there was anyone who had not thought of it.

"We got to 'ave fresh rules," Kippy continued. "Anyone breaking a winder 'as to retire, mend
the winder, and 'is side loses ten runs." Only a super mind could in the time have framed a
punishment so convincingly deterrent.

The scoop shot from the pergola end was ruled out in a sentence, and we were treated to a masterly
and Jessopian demonstration of how to get an off ball past square-leg.

But no completely efficient form of organisation can be encompassed in an hour, nor can man
legislate for the unknown factor.

In this case Kippy was not aware that, on the far side of the shrubbery, against an ancient
sun-bathed wall, stood the greenhouse which sheltered the Colonel's prize grapes. And so Jim
Butcher, playing this time from the rockery end, brought off the double event and caused another
new clause to be added to the local rules. With thirty-seven to his credit and still undefeated
he was making history in the village, though it must be admitted that no one was ever less
anxious to retain the post of honour, and when the gardener laid out the damaged fruit nothing
short of Kippy's appeal would have persuaded him to continue his innings.

"Wot, retire jest when you're gettin' popler an' can't do no more 'arm an' I've sent off the
'ole brigade of scouts ter spread the noos, 'Jessop thirty, not out, an' 'arf the Colonel's
winders napooed.' Wy, the 'ole blinkin' county will be 'ere as soon as they know wot's goin'
on." Kippy leant forward confidentially, "An' them Serbian boxes 'as got ter be filled some'ow."
It was an irresistible argument, and Jim Butcher continued his innings under slightly restricted
conditions.

At 6.50, with ten minutes to play, the Convalescents, who had shown great form, required only
twelve runs to win the match. Kippy and Gunner Toady shared the batting. A pretty glance to
leg for two by the Gunner was all that could be taken out of the penultimate over, and Kippy
at the pergola end faced Mark Styles, the postman, to take the first ball of the last over.
Two singles were run, and then Kippy placed one nicely into the herbaceous border for four.
The next one nearly got him, and then, with the seven o'clock delivery, as it were, the postman
tossed up a half-volley on the leg side. Forgotten were the rules, the windows and all else.
Kippy jumped out and, with every muscle he could bring into action, hit it straight through
the plate-glass panel of the billiard-room door. For five petrified seconds we gazed at the
wreckage, and then the door opened and the Colonel walked briskly into the garden. Anything
else--a bomb or an earthquake--might merely have created curiosity, but this was different.

Quite unostentatiously I vacated my position at fine leg and merged myself with the slips,
who, together with point and cover, were bearing a course towards the labyrinthine ways of
the kitchen-garden. After vainly searching for an imaginary ball and finding that we were not
actually attacked from the rear, we ventured at length to return.

