It pleased God to spare her life, though she grew better very slowly, and it was many weeks
before she could leave her room. When her long and painful illness was over, she was again
able to share with Louisa in her lessons and her pleasures, so that in time those weeks of
grief and suffering seemed to be forgotten; but they were not forgotten by Emma: she did not
forget the mercies she had received, and the resolve which she had made of leading a holy life:
she daily prayed for an humble and watchful mind, and for grace to keep her from falling into
sin; and, as you may suppose, she loved her Bible more and more for the comfort which it had
given her in the time of trouble. She still took pleasure in reading it alone, and prayed that
she might have grace to obey its commands, so that it might be a lamp unto her feet and a light
unto her path. Psa. cxix, 105.

CHAPTER IX.

AUNT HARDING'S RETURN.

And now two more years had passed away, and the time when their aunt Harding's return was looked
for had come. They had talked of it all through the winter; and when spring was over, and summer
begun, the happy tidings came that the ship had arrived in safety, and their uncle and aunt
Harding were on their way to visit them once more. I will leave you to guess the joy that was
felt by all; and you must picture to yourself the pleasure of their meeting soon afterward:
how thankful all were that they were spared to behold each other again; with uncle Harding's
surprise at seeing two great girls instead of little Louisa and Emma; and aunt Harding's smiles,
and her hopes that there would be found an equal improvement in matters of more importance.

The morning after she came, when Mrs. Harding began to unpack her boxes, Louisa and Emma caught
sight of many pretty and curious things which she told them were intended as presents for themselves.
"But before we proceed any further," said she, as the girls were beginning to express their
thanks and pleasure, "I wish to inquire about the parting keepsake which I gave to you; and
I should be glad to see how each book has been treated, that I may know the real value which
you set upon the gift."

Louisa and Emma both ran to fulfill their aunt's desire. To speak the truth, Louisa was now
in hopes of having all the praise. She quickly brought in her handsome Bible, still wrapped
in the soft white paper, and in all the gloss of newness: not a mark upon the rich purple binding,
not a speck upon the bright gilt leaves. Emma, too, brought hers, but with a more timid look;
the neat brown silk cover was faded and worn--she had thought of making a new one only the
day before--and the brightness was gone from the leaves, and the binding seemed rather loose,
for the book opened easily, and there were some pages, less white than others, which looked
as if they had been often read. To Louisa's surprise, Mrs. Harding laid down her book without
saying a word, while, as soon as she took Emma's Bible into her hand, she smiled with pleasure,
although tears came into her eyes. "This book has been valued as it ought to be," said she;
"it has been used with care, but often used, so that I trust it has been found a guide and
a help to heaven. But yours, Louisa"--and she pointed to the beautiful Bible which lay upon
the table--"yours has been laid aside, like the talent which was buried in the earth. It has
been of no benefit to your soul, for you seem hardly ever to have looked to it for instruction;
as if its real worth consisted in outside ornament, you have been careful to keep that from
injury, but have never sought or cared for the treasure that is within. But dry your tears,
my dear Louisa," added aunt Harding kindly. "I am not angry, for I know that your mistaken
care was in some measure caused by your love for me. I am only sorry that my parting present
has not been of the use which I intended. But it is not yet too late for you to learn that,
while your Bible should be kept with proper care--for it is the word of God--yet it was given
for our daily study, that we might read it, pray over it, and practice it; and thus, by the
divine blessing, become 'wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus.'" 2 Tim.
iii, 15.

"I trust," said the kind aunt, looking at her two nieces with much affection; "I trust that
my dear Emma knows and loves her Saviour, and takes delight in the Scriptures, because they
testify of him. May you both have grace to love him above all things, to do his will, and to
put your trust in him for evermore; and then the heartfelt desire of your aunt Harding will
be fulfilled."

Reader, beware how you neglect the word of God. But remember it is not by merely reading it
that you are to look for a blessing to your soul. You must pray for the teaching of the Holy
Spirit, who alone can open your understanding, and incline your heart to heavenly wisdom, that
you may not read in vain.

       *       *       *       *       *

PRAYER FOR DIVINE GUIDANCE.

O that the Lord would guide my ways
  To keep his statutes still!
O that my God would grant me grace
  To know and do his will!

O send thy Spirit down to write
  Thy law upon my heart!
Nor let my tongue indulge deceit,
  Nor act the liar's part.

From vanity turn off mine eyes;
  Let no corrupt design,
Nor covetous desires, arise
  Within this soul of mine.

Order my footsteps by thy word,
  And make my heart sincere:
Let sin have no dominion, Lord,
  But keep my conscience clear.

My soul hath gone too far astray,
  My feet too often slip;
Yet, since I've not forgot thy way,
  Restore thy wand'ring sheep.

Make me to walk in thy commands,
  'Tis a delightful road;
Nor let my head, or heart, or hands,
  Offend against my God.

       *       *       *       *       *

VALUE OF THE SCRIPTURES TO THE YOUNG

How shall the young secure their hearts,
  And guard their lives from sin?
Thy word the choicest rules imparts
  To keep the conscience clean.

When once it enters to the mind,
  It spreads such light abroad,
The meanest souls instruction find,
  And raise their thoughts to God.

'Tis like the sun, a heavenly light
  That guides us all the day;
And through the dangers of the night,
  A lamp to lead our way.

Thy word is everlasting truth;
  How pure is every page!
That holy book shall guide our youth,
  And well support our age.

THE END.

       *       *       *       *       *

KINDNESS TO ANIMALS; SHOWING THE SIN OF CRUELTY. BY CHARLOTTE ELIZABETH. Price eighteen cents.

THE M'GREGOR FAMILY. Price eighteen cents.

THE COTTAGE ON THE MOOR; OR, THE EVILS OF PRIDE. Price eighteen cents.

OLD ANTHONY'S HINTS TO YOUNG PEOPLE, TO MAKE THEM CHEERFUL AND WISE. Price twenty cents.

THE JEW AMONG ALL NATIONS, SHOWING THE PRESENT CONDITION OF THAT WONDERFUL PEOPLE. Price twenty-one
cents.

THE EGYPTIAN, BY THE AUTHOR OF THE JEW. Price twenty-one cents.

THE STRANGE PLANET, AND OTHER ALLEGORIES, DESIGNED TO ILLUSTRATE IMPORTANT SUBJECTS