Then, in order to avoid painful explanations and self-justification, I handed him a long letter
I had written to my cousin, in which I related, without telling her of my disguise, that I
had seen the Prince de Monbert at the theatre, described the people whom he was with, and my
disgust at his conduct. I begged her to read this letter to the Prince himself, who is with
her now--he has followed her to one of her estates in Brittany; he would see from the decided
tone of my letter, that my resolution was taken, that I did not love him, and that the best
thing he could do was to forget me.

I had written this letter yesterday, under your inspiration, and to ward off the imaginary
dangers you feared. Rely upon it, my dear Valentine, M. de Monbert knows that he has acted
culpably towards me; he might, perhaps, endeavor to prevent my marriage, but when he knows
I am no longer free, he will be compelled to resign himself to my loss; don't be alarmed, I
know of two beautiful creatures whom he will allow to console him. A man really unhappy would
not have confided the story of his disdained love to all his friends, valets and the detectives;
he would not hand over to idle gossip a dear and sacred name; a man who has no respect for
his love, does not love seriously; he deserves neither regard nor pity. I will write to him
myself to-morrow, if you desire it; but as to a quarrel, what does he claim? I have never given
him any rights; if he threatens to provoke my husband to a duel, I have only to say: "Take
for your seconds Messrs. Ernest and George de S., who were intoxicated with you at the Odeon,"
and he will blush with shame, and instantly recognise how odious and ridiculous is his anger.

I left Raymond alone in my room reading this letter, and I returned to the saloon to weep bitterly.
I could not bear to see him displeased with me; I knew he would accuse me of being trifling
and capricious--the idea of having offended him pierced my heart with anguish. I know not if
the letter justified me in his eyes, whether he thought it honest and dignified, but as soon
as he had finished reading it he called me: "Irene," he said, and I trembled with sweet emotion
on hearing him, for the first time, utter my real name; I returned to the next room, he took
my hand and continued: "Pardon me for believing, for a moment, that you were capricious and
trifling, and I forgive you for having made me act an odious part towards one of my friends."

Then he told me in a tender voice that he understood my conduct, and that it was right; that
when one is not sure of loving her intended, or of being loved by him, she has a right to test
him, and that it was only honest and just. Then he smilingly asked me if I did not wish to
try him, and leave him a month or two to see if I was beloved by him.

"Oh! no," I cried, "I believe in you. I do not wish to leave you. Oh! how can true lovers live
apart from each other? How can they be separated for a single day?"

I recalled what you told me when I abandoned M. de Monbert, and acknowledged that you were
right when you said: "Genuine love is confiding, it shuns doubt because it cannot endure it."

This sad impression that he felt upon learning that Louise Guérin was Irene de Chateaudun,
was the only cloud that passed over our happiness. Soon joy returned to us lively and pure--and
we spoke of you tenderly; he was the poor wounded man that gave you so much uneasiness; he
was the model husband you had chosen for me, and whom I refused with such proud scorn!

Ah! my good Valentine, how I thank you for having nursed him as a sister; how noble and charming
you were to him; I would like to reward you by having you here to witness our happiness. And
you must thank the esteemed M. de Braimes for me, and my beautiful Irene, who taught him to
love my name, and brought him a bouquet every morning; and your handsome Henri, the golden-haired
angel, who brought him his little doves in your work-basket to take care of, while he studied
his lessons. Embrace for me these dear children he caressed, who cheered his hours of suffering,
whom I so love for his sake and yours.

Will you not let me show my appreciation of my little goddaughter by rendering her independent
of future accidents, enabling her without imprudence to marry for love?

I am so happy in loving that I can imagine it to be the only source of joy to others; yet this
happiness is so great that I find myself asking if my heart is equal to its blessings; if my
poor reason, wearied by so many trials, will have sufficient strength to support these violent
emotions; if happiness has not, like misery, a madness. I endeavor when alone to calm my excited
mind; I sit down and try to quietly think over my past life with that inflexibility of judgment,
that analyzing pedantry, of which you have so often accused me.

You remember, Valentine, more than once you have told me you saw in me two persons, a romantic
young girl and a disenchanted old philosopher.... Ah! well, to-day the romantic young girl
has reached the most thrilling chapter of her life; she feels her weak head whirl at the prospect
of such intoxicating bliss, and she appeals to the old philosopher for assistance. She tells
him how this bliss frightens her; she begs him to reassure her about this beautiful future
opening before her, by proving to her that it is natural and logical; that it is the result
of her past life, and finally that however great it may be, however extraordinary it may seem,
it is possible, it is lasting, because it is bought at the price of humiliation, of sorrow,
of trials!

Yes, I confess it, these happy events appear to be so strange, so impossible, that I try to
explain them, to calmly analyze them and believe in their reality.

I recall one by one all my impressions of the last four years, and exert my mind to discover
in the strangeness, in the fatality, in the excessive injustice of my past misfortunes, a natural
explanation for extraordinary and incredible events of the present. The reverses themselves
were romantic and improbable, therefore the reparations and consolations should in their turn
be equally romantic. Is it an ordinary thing for a young girl reared like myself in Parisian
luxury, belonging to an illustrious family, to be reduced to the sternest poverty, and through
family pride and dignity to conceal her name? Is not such dignity, assailed by fate, destined
sooner or later to vindicate itself?

You see that through myself I would have been restored to my rank. M. de Meilhan wished to
marry me without fortune or name.... Yesterday, M. de Villiers knew not who I was; my uncle's
inheritance has therefore been of no assistance to me. I believe that native dignity will always
imperceptibly assert itself. I believe in the logic of events; order has imperious laws; it
is useless to throw statues to the ground, the time always comes when they are restored to
their pedestals. From my rank I fell unjustly, unhappily. I must be restored to it justly.
Every glaring injustice has a natural consequent, a brilliant reparation, I have suffered extraordinary
misfortune; I have a right to realize ideal happiness. At twenty, I lost in one year my noble
and too generous father and my poor mother; it is only just that I should have a lover to replace
these lost ones.

As to these violent passions which you pretend I have inspired, but which are by no means serious,
I examine them calmly and find in the analysis an explanation of many of the misfortunes, many
of the mistakes of poor women, who are accused of inconstancy and perfidy, and who are, on
the contrary, only culpable through innocence and honest faith. They believe they love, and
engage themselves, and then, once engaged, they discover that they are not in love. Genuine
love is composed of two sentiments; we experience one of these when we believe we love; we
are uneasy, agitated by an imperfect sentiment that seeks completion; we struggle in its feeble
ties; we are neither bound nor free; not happy, nor at liberty to seek happiness at another
source.... The old philosopher speaks--hear him.

There are two kinds of love, social love and natural love; voluntary love and involuntary love.
An accomplished and deserving young man loves a woman; he loves her, and deserves to be loved
in return; she wishes to love him, and when alone thinks of him; if his name is mentioned,
she blushes; if any one says in her presence, "Madame B. used to be in love with him," she
is disturbed, agitated. These symptoms are certain proofs of the state of her heart, and she
says to herself, "I love Adolphe," just as I said, "I love Roger." ... But the voice of this
man does not move her to tears; his fiery glances do not make her turn pale or blush; her hand
does not tremble in the presence of his.... She only feels for him social love; there exists
between them a harmony of ideas and education, but no sympathy of nature.

The other love is more dangerous, especially for married women, who mistake remorse for that
honest repugnance necessarily inspired in every woman of refined mind and romantic imagination.

I frankly confess that if I had been married, if I had no longer control of my actions, I should
have thought I was in love with Edgar.... I should have mistaken for an odious and culpable
passion, the fearful trouble, insupportable uneasiness that his love caused me to feel. But
my vigilant reason, my implacable good faith watched over my heart; they said: "Shun Roger;"
they said: "Fear Edgar...." If I had married Roger, woe to me! Conventional love, leaving my
heart all its dreams, would have embittered my life.... But if, more foolish still, I had married
Edgar, woe, woe to me! because one does not sacrifice with impunity to an incomplete love all
of one's theories, habits and even weaknesses and early prejudices.

What enlightened me quickly upon the unreality of this love was the liberty of my position.
Why being free should I fear a legitimate love? Strange mystery! wonderful instinct! With Roger,
I sadly said to myself: "I love him, but it is not with love." ... With Edgar, I said in fright:
"This is love, yet I do not love him." And then when Raymond appeared, my heart, my reason,
my faith at the first glance recognised him, and without hesitation, almost without prudence,
I cried out, "It is he.... I love him." ... Now this is what I call real love, ideal love,
harmony of ideas and sympathy of hearts.

Oh! it does me good to be a little pedantic; I am so excited, it calms me; I am not so afraid
of going crazy when I adopt the sententious manner. Ah! when I can laugh I am happy. Anything
that for a moment checks my wild imagination, reassures me.

This morning we laughed like two children! You will laugh too; when I write one name it will
set you off; he said to me, "I must go to my coachmaker's and see if my travelling carriage
needs any repairs." I said, "I have a new one; I will send for it, and let you see it." In
an hour my carriage was brought into the court-yard. With peals of laughter he recognised Lady
Penock's carriage. "Lady Penock! What! do you know Lady Penock? Are you the audacious young
lover who pursued her until she was compelled to sell me her carriage." "Yes, I was the man."
Ah! how gay we were; he was the hero of Lady Penock, his was the little light, he was the wounded
man, he was the husband selected for me! Ah! it all makes me dizzy; and we shall set off to
travel in this carriage.

Ah! Lady Penock, you must pardon him.

IRENE DE CHATEAUDUN.

XXXIII.

EDGAR DE MEILHAN to the PRINCE DE MONBERT, Porte Restante (Rouen).

PARIS, Aug. 11th 18--.

Here I am in Paris, gloomy, with nothing to do, not knowing how to fill up the void in my life,
discontented with myself, ridiculous in my own eyes, alike in my love and in my despair. I
have never felt so sad, so wretched, so cast-down. My days and nights are passed in endless
self-accusation: one by one I revise every word and action relating to Louise Guérin. I compose
superb sentences which I had forgotten to pronounce, the effect of which would have been irresistible.
I tell myself: "On such a day, you were guilty of a stupid timidity, which would have made
even a college-boy laugh." It was the moment for daring. Louise, unseen, threw you a look which
you were too stupid to understand. The evening that Madame Taverneau was at Rouen, you allowed
yourself to be intimidated like a fool, by a few grand airs, an affectation of virtue over
which the least persistence would have triumphed. Your delicacy ruined you. A little roughness
doesn't hurt sometimes, especially with prudes. You have not profited by a single one of your
advantages; you let every opportunity pass. In short, I am like a general who has lost a battle,
and who, having retired to his tent, in the midst of a field strewn with the dead and the dying
marks out, too late, a strategic plan which would have infallibly gained him the victory!

What a pitiless monster an unsatiated desire is, tearing your heart with its sharp claws and
piercing beak for want of other prey! The punishment of Prometheus pales beside it, for the
arrows of Hercules cannot reach this unseen vulture! This is my first unsuccessful love; the
first falcon that has returned to me without bringing the dove in his talons; I am devoured
by an inexpressible rage; I pace my room like a wild beast, uttering inarticulate cries; I
do not know whether I love or hate Louise the most, but I should take infinite delight in strangling
her with her blonde tresses and trampling her, affrighted and suppliant, under my feet.

My good Roger, I weary you with my lamentations; but whom can we weary, if not our friends?
When will you return to Paris? Soon, I hope, since you have ceased writing to me.

I have gone back to the lady with the turban, passing nearly every evening in the catafalque,
which she calls her drawing-room. This lugubrious habitation suits my melancholy. She finds
me more gloomy, more Giaour-like, more Lara-like than usual; I am her hero, her god! or rather
her demon, for she has now taken to the sorceries of the satanic school! I assure you that
she annoys me inexpressibly, and yet I feel a sort of pleasure in being admired by her. It
consoles my vanity for Louise's disdain, but not my heart. Alas! my poor heart, which still
bleeds and suffers. I caught a glimpse of Paradise through a half-open door. The door is shut,
and I weep upon the threshold!

If Louise were dead, I might be calm; but she exists, and not for me--that thought makes life
insupportable. I can think of nothing else, and I scarcely know whether the words I write to
you make any sense. I leave my letter unfinished. I will finish it this evening if I can succeed
in diverting myself, for a moment, from this despair which possesses me.

Roger, something incredible has happened, overturning every calculation, every prevision. I
am stupefied, benumbed--I was at the Marquise's, where it was darker than usual. One solitary
lamp flickered in a corner, dozing under a huge shade. A fat gentleman, buried in an easy-chair,
drowsily retailed the news of the day.

I was not listening to him; I was thinking of Louise's little white couch, from which I had
once lifted the snowy curtain; with that sorrowful intensity, those poignant regrets which
torture rejected lovers. Suddenly a familiar name struck my ear--the name of Irene de Chateaudun.
I became attentive--"She is to be married to-morrow," continued the well-posted gentleman,
"to--wait a minute, I get confused about names and dates; with that exception, my memory is
excellent--a young man, Gaston, Raymond, I am not certain which, but his first name ends in
on I am sure."

I eagerly questioned the fat man; he knew nothing more; hastily returning to my rooms I sent
Joseph out to obtain further information.

My servant, who is quick and intelligent, and merits a master more given to intrigue and gallantry
than I, went to the twelve mayors' offices. He brought me a list of all the banns that had
been published.

The news was true; Irene de Chateaudun marries Raymond. What does that signify? Irene your
fiancée, Raymond our friend! What comedy of errors is being played here? This, then, was the
motive of these flights, these disappearances. They were laughing at you. It seems to me rather
an audacious proceeding. How does it happen that Raymond, who knew of your projected marriage
with Mademoiselle de Chateaudun, should have stepped in your shoes? This comes of deeds of
prowess à la Don Quixote, and rescues of old Englishwomen.

Hasten, my friend, by railroad, post-horses, in the stirrup, on hippogriff's wing; what am
I talking about? You will scarcely receive my letter ere the marriage has taken place. But
I will keep watch for you. I will acquit myself of your revenge, and Mademoiselle Irene de
Chateaudun shall not become Madame Raymond de Villiers until I have whispered that in her ear
which will make her paler than her marriage veil. As to Raymond, I am not astonished at what
he has done; I felt towards him at Richeport a hate which never deceives me and which I always
feel towards cowards and hypocrites; he talked too much of virtue not to be a scoundrel. I
would I had the power to raze out from my life the time that I loved him. It is impossible
to oppose this revolting marriage. How is it possible that Irene de Chateaudun, who was to
enjoy the honor of being your wife, whom you had represented to me as a woman of high intelligence
and lofty culture, could have allowed herself to be impressed, after having known you, by the
jeremiads of this sentimental sniveller? Since Eve, women have disliked all that is noble,
frank and loyal; to fall is an unconquerable necessity of their nature; they have always preferred,
to the voice of an honorable man, the perfidious whisper of the evil spirit, which shows its
painted face among the leaves and wraps its slimy coils around the fatal tree.

EDGAR DE MEILHAN.

XXXIV.

This is probably the last letter that I shall ever write to you. Do not pity me, my fate is
more worthy of envy than of pity. I never knew, I never dreamed of anything more beautiful.
It has been said time and again that real life is tame, spiritless and disenchanted by the
side of the fictions of the poets. What a mistake! There is a more wonderful inventor than
any rhapsodist, and that inventor is called reality. It wears the magic ring, and imagination
is but a poor magician compared with it. Madame, do not write to Mademoiselle de Chateaudun.
Since you have not done so my letters must necessarily have miscarried. Blessed be the happy
chance which prevented you from following my advice! What did I say to you? I was a fool. Be
careful not to alarm my darling. The man has lived long enough upon whom she has bestowed her
love for one single day. Do not write, it is too late; but admire the decrees of fate. The
diamond that I had sought with the Prince de Monbert, I have unwittingly found; I assisted
in searching for it, while it was hid, unknown to me, in my heart. Louise is Irene. Madame
Guérin is Mademoiselle de Chateaudun. If you could have seen her delight in revealing her identity!
I saw her joyful and triumphant as if her love were not the most precious gift she could bestow.
When she proclaimed herself, I felt an icy chill pass through me; but I thanked God for the
bliss which I shall not survive, so great that death must follow after.

"Do you not love me well enough," she said, "to pardon me my fortune?"

How was she to know that in revealing herself she had signed my death-warrant?

She spoke, laughingly, of M. de Monbert, as she had done of Edgar; to excuse herself she related
a story of disenchantment which you already know, madame. It would have been honorable in me,
at this juncture, to have undeceived Irene and enlightened her upon the Prince's passion. I
did so, but feebly. When happiness is offered us loaded with ball, we have no longer the right
to be generous.

We are to be married privately to-morrow, without noise or display. A plain-looking carriage
will wait for us on the Place de la Madeleine; immediately on leaving the church we shall set
out for Villiers. M. de Meilhan is at Richeport. M. de Monbert is in Brittany. Eight days must
elapse before the news can reach them. Thus I have before me eight days of holy intoxication.
What man has ever been able to say as much?

Recall to mind the words of one of your poet friends; It is better to die young and restore
to God, your judge, a heart pure and full of illusions. Your poet is right; only it is more
ecstatic to die in the arms of happiness, and to be buried with the flower of a love which
has not yet faded.

My love would never have followed the fatal law of common-place affection; years would never
have withered it in their passage. But what signifies its duration, if we can crowd eternity
into an hour? What signifies the number of days if the days are full?

Nevertheless, I cannot refrain from regretting an existence which promises so much beauty.
We would have been very happy in my little château on the Creuse. I was born for fireside joys,
the delights of home. I already saw my beautiful children playing over my green lawns, and
pressing joyfully around their mother. What exquisite pleasure to be able to initiate into
the mysteries of fortune the sweet and noble being whom I then believed to be poor and friendless!
I would take possession of her life to make a long fête-day of it. What tender care would I
not bestow upon so dear and charming a destiny! Downy would be her nest, warm the sun that
shone upon her, sweet the perfumes that surrounded her, soft the breezes that fanned her cheek,
green and velvety the turf under her delicate feet! But a truce to such sweet dreams. I know
M. de Monbert; what I have seen of him is sufficient. M. de Meilhan, too, will not disappoint
me. I shall not conceal myself; in eight days these two men will have found me. In eight days
they will knock at my door, like two creditors, demanding restitution, one of Louise, the other
of Irene. If I were to descend to justification, even if I were to succeed in convincing them
of my loyalty and uprightness, their despair would cry out all the louder for vengeance. Then,
madame, what shall I do? Shall I try to take the life of my friends after having robbed them
of their happiness? Let them kill me; I shall be ready; but they shall see upon my lips, growing
cold in death, the triumphant smile of victorious love; my last sigh, breathing Irene's name,
will be a cruel insult to these unhappy men, who will envy me even in the arms of death.

I neither believe nor desire that Irene should survive me. My soul, in leaving, will draw hers
after it. What would she do here below, without me? You will see, that feeling herself gently
drawn upward, she will leave a world that I no longer inhabit. I repeat, that I would not have
her live on earth without me. But sorrow does not always kill; youth is strong, and nature
works miracles. I have seen trees, struck by lightning, still stand erect and put forth new
leaves. I have seen blasted lives drag their weary length to a loveless old age. I have seen
noble hearts severed from their mates, slowly consumed by the weariness of widowhood and solitude.
If we could die when we have lost those we love, it would be too sweet to love. Jealous of
his creature, God does not always permit it. It is a grace which he accords only to the elect.
If, by a fatality not without precedent, Irene should have the strength and misfortune to survive
me, to you, madame, do I confide her. Care for her, not with the hope of consoling her, but
to banish all bitterness from her regrets. Picture my death to her, not as the expiation of
the innocent whim of her youth, but as that of a happiness too great to go unchecked. Tell
her that there are great joys as well as great sorrows, and that when they have outweighed
the human measure of happiness, the heart which holds them must break and grow still. Tell
her, ah! above all, tell her that I have dearly loved her, and if I carry her whole life away
with me, I leave her mine in exchange. Finally, madame, tell her that I died blessing her,
regretting that I had but one life to lay down as the price of her love.

While I write, I see her at her window, smiling, radiant, beautiful, beaming with happiness,
resplendent with life and youth.

Farewell, madame; an eternal farewell!

RAYMOND DE VILLIERS.

XXXV.

What I wrote you yesterday was very infamous and incredible. You think that is all; well, no!
you have only half of the story. My hand trembles with rage so that I can scarcely hold my
pen. What remains to be told is the acme of perfidy; a double-dyed treason; we have been made
game of, you as a plighted husband, I as a lover. All this seems as incoherent to you as a
dream. What can I have in common with Irene whom I have never seen? Wait, you shall see!

My faithful Joseph discovered that the marriage was to take place at the Church of the Madeleine,
at six o'clock in the morning.

I was so agitated, so restless, so tormented by gloomy presentiments that I did not go to bed.
At the given hour I went out wrapped in my cloak. Although it is summer-time I was cold; a
slight feverish chill ran through me. The catastrophe to come had already turned me pale.

The Madeleine stood out faintly against the gray morning sky. The livid figures of some revellers,
surprised by the day, were seen here and there on the street corners. The stir of the great
city had not yet begun. I thought I had arrived too soon, but a carriage with neither crest
nor cipher, in charge of a servant in quiet livery, was stationed in one of the cross-streets
that run by the church.

I ascended the steps with uncertain footing, and soon saw, in one of those spurious chapels,
which have been stuck with so much trouble in that counterfeit Greek temple, wax lights and
the motions of the priest who officiated.

The bride, enveloped in her veil, prostrated before the altar, seemed to be praying fervently;
the husband, as if he were not the most contemptible of men, stood erect and proud, his face
beaming with joy. The ceremony drew to a close, Irene raised her head, but I was so placed
as not to be able to distinguish her features.

I leaned against a column in order to whisper in Irene's ear, as she passed, a word as cutting
as the crystal poniards of the bravos of Venice, which break in the wound and slay without
a drop of blood. Irene advanced buoyantly along, leaning on Raymond's arm, with an undulating,
rhythmical grace, as if her feet trod the yielding clouds, instead of the cold stones of the
aisle. She no longer walked the earth, her happiness lifted her up; the ardor of her delight
made me comprehend those assumptions of the Saints, who soared in their ecstasy above the floors
of their narrow cells and caverns; she felt the deep delight of a woman who sacrifices herself.

When she reached the column that concealed me, an electrical current doubtless warned her of
my presence, for she shuddered as if struck by an unseen arrow, and quickly turned her head;
a stray sunbeam lit up her face, and I recognised in Irene de Chateaudun, Louise Guérin; in
the rich heiress, the screen-painter of Pont de l'Arche!

Irene and Louise were the same person!

We have been treated as Cassandras of comedy; we have played in all seriousness the scene between
Horace and Arnolphe. We have confided to each other our individual loves, hopes and sorrows.
It is very amusing; but, contrary to custom, the tragedy will come after the farce, and we
will play it so well that no one will be tempted to laugh at our expense; we will convert ridicule
into terror. Ah! Mademoiselle Irene de Chateaudun, you imagined that you could amuse yourself
with two such men as the Prince de Moubert and Edgar de Meilhan! that there it would end, and
you had only to say to them: "I love another better!" And you, Master Raymond, thought that
your virtuous reputation would make your perfidy appear like an act of devotion! No, no, in
the drama where the great lady was an adventuress, the artless girl a fast woman, the hero
a traitor, the lover a fool, and the betrothed husband a Geronte, the rôles are to be changed.

A hoarse cry escaped me, Irene clung convulsively to Raymond's arm, and precipitately left
the church. Raymond, without understanding this sudden flight, yielded to it and rapidly descended
the steps. The carriage was in waiting; they got into it; the coachman whipped up his horses
and soon they were out of sight.

Irene, Louise, whatever may be your name or your mask, you shall not long remain Madame de
Villiers; a speedy widowhood will enable you to begin your coquetries again. I regret to be
compelled to strike you through another, for you merit death.

EDGAR BE MEILHAN.

XXXVI.

ROGER DE MONBERT to MONSIEUR LE COMTE DE VILLIERS, Au Château de Villiers (Creuse).

August 16th 18--.

MONSIEUR,--

I take pleasure in sending you, by way of apologue, an anecdote, which you may read with profit.

During my travels I met with an estimable man, a Creole of the colony of Port Natal, by the
name of Smollet.

I sometimes hunted in the neighborhood of his place, and on two occasions demanded his hospitality.
He received me in a dubious manner, admitted me to his table, scarcely spoke to me; served
me with Constantia wine, refused to accept my proffered hand, and surrendered me his own couch
to rest my wearied limbs upon. From Port Natal I wrote this savage two notes of thanks, commencing:
My dear friend--in writing, I could not confer on him a title of rank, so I gave him one of
affection: My dear friend. My letters were ignored--as I had asked nothing, there was nothing
to answer. One evening I met the Creole walking up the avenue of Port Natal, and advanced towards
him, and held out my hand in a friendly way. Once more he declined to accept it. My vexation
was apparent: "Monsieur," said the savage, "you appear to be an honest, sincere young man,
very unlike a European. I must enlighten and warn your too unsuspecting mind. You have several
times called me your dear friend. Doing this might prove disastrous to you, and then I would
be in despair. I am not your friend; I am the friend of no one.... Avoid me, monsieur; shun
my neighborhood, shun my house. Withdraw the confidence, that with the carelessness of a traveller
you have reposed in me.... Adieu!" This adieu was accompanied by a sinister smile and a savage
look that were anything but reassuring to me. I afterwards discovered that the Creole Smollet
was a professional bandit!!

I hope, Monsieur de Villiers, that the application of this apologue will not escape you. At
all events, I will add a few lines to enlighten your unsophisticated mind. You have always
been my friend, monsieur. You have never disclaimed this relation; you have always pressed
my hand when we met. Your professed friendship justified my confidence, and it would have been
ungrateful in me to have esteemed you less than I did the savage. You and Mad. de Braimes have
cunningly organized against me a plot of the basest nature. Doubtless you call it a happy combination
of forces--I call it a perfidious conspiracy. I imagine I hear you and Mad. de Braimes at this
very moment laughing at your victim as you congratulate yourselves on the success of your machinations.
It affords me pleasure to think that one of these two friends is, perhaps, a man. Were they
both women I could not demand satisfaction. You deserve my gratitude for your great kindness
in assisting me when I most needed a friend. When I sought Mlle, de Chateaudun with a foolish,
blind anxiety, you charitably aided me in my efforts to find her. You were my guide, my compass,
my staff; you led me over roads where Mlle, de Chateaudun never thought of going; your guidance
was so skilful that at the end of my searches you alone found what we had both been vainly
seeking. You must have been delighted and entertained at the result, monsieur! Did Mad. de
Braimes laugh very much? Truly, monsieur, you are old beyond your years, and your education
was not confined to Greek and Latin; your talent for acting has been cultivated by a profound
study of human nature. You play high comedy to perfection, and you should not let your extreme
modesty prevent your aspiring to a more brilliant theatre. It is a pity that your fine acting
should be wasted upon me alone. You deserve a larger and more appreciative audience! You do
not know yourself. I will hold a mirror before your eyes; you can affect astonishment, disinterestedness,
magnanimity, and a constellation of other virtues, blooming like flowers in the gardens of
the golden age. You are a perfected comedian. If you really possessed all the virtues you assume,
you would, like Enoch, excite the jealousy of Heaven, and be translated to your proper sphere.
A man of your transcendent virtue would be a moral scourge in our corrupt society. He would,
by contrast, humiliate his neighbors. In these degenerate days such a combination of gifts
is antagonistic to nature.

Do relieve our anxiety by accepting the title of comedian. Acknowledge yourself to be an actor,
and our anxious fears are quieted.

I would have my mind set at rest upon one more point. Courage is another virtue that can be
assumed by a coward, and it would afford me great pleasure to see you act the part of a brave
comedian.

While waiting for your answer I feel forced to insult you by thinking that this last talent
is wanting in your rich repertory. Be kind enough to deny this imputation, and prove yourself
to be a thoroughly accomplished actor.

Your admiring audience,

ROGER DE MONBERT.

XXXVII.

EDGAR DE MEILHAN to the COUNT DE VILLIERS, Château de Villiers, via Guéret (Creuse).

PARIS, Aug. 16th 18--.

Noble hidalgo, illustrious knight of la Mancha; you who are so fond of adventures and chivalric
deeds, I am about to make you a proposition which, I hope, will suit your taste: a fight with
sharp weapons, be it lance, or axe, or dagger; a struggle to the death, showing neither pity
nor quarter. I know beforehand what you are going to say: Your native generosity will prevent
you from fighting a duel with your friend. In the first place, I am not your friend; traitors
have not that honor. Do not let that scruple stop you, refined gentleman.

Your mask has fallen off, dear Tartuffe with the fine feelings. We now know to what figures
you devote yourself. Before dragging English women out of the flames you are well aware of
their social position. You save friends from bankruptcy at a profit of eighty per cent., and
when you make love to a grisette, you have her crest and the amount of her income in your pocket.
In coming to my house, you knew that Louise was Irene. Madame de Braimes had acquainted you
with all the circumstances during your interesting convalescence. All this may seem very natural
to others and to a virtuous mortal, a Grandison like yourself. But I think differently; to
me your conduct appears cowardly, base and contemptible. I should not be able to control myself,
but would endeavor to make you comprehend my opinion of you, by slapping you in the face, wherever
I met you. I hope that you will spare me such a disagreeable alternative by consenting to pose
for a few moments before my sword or pistol, as you please. Allow me to entreat you not to
exhibit any grandeur of soul, by firing in the air, it would not produce the slightest effect
upon me, for I should kill you like a dog. Your presence upon the earth annoys me, and I do
not labor for morality in deeds myself.

EDGAR DE MEILHAN.

XXXVIII.

COMTE DE VILLIERS to MESSRS. ROGER DE MONBERT and EDGAR DE MEILHAN,

VILLIERS, Aug 18th 18--.

Let us drop such language unworthy of you and of me. We are gentlemen, of military descent;
our fathers when they did each other the honor that you offer me, challenged, but did not insult
each other. If the affair were equal, if I had only one to contend with, perhaps I might attempt
to bring him to reason There are two of you; come on, I await you.

COMTE DE VILLIERS XXXIX.

VILLIERS, August 21st 18--.

For two days I have been trying to answer your letter, my dear Valentine, but I am so uneasy,
nervous and excited that I dare not commit to paper my wild and troubled thoughts; I am still
sane enough to accuse myself of madness, but dread to prove it. Were I to write down all the
strange ideas that rush through my mind, and then read them over, conviction of insanity would
stare me in the face.

I was right when I told you it was a risk to accept such a wealth of happiness; my sweet enchantment
is disturbed by dark threatening clouds--danger lurks in the air--the lightest word fills me
with uneasiness--a letter written in a strange hand--an unexpected visitor, who leaves Raymond
looking preoccupied--everything alarms me, and he gently chides me and asks why I look so sad.
I say because I am too happy; but he thinks this a poor reason for my depression, and to divert
my thoughts he walks with me through the beautiful valleys and tells me of his youth and the
golden dreams of his early manhood, and assures me that his dreams of happiness are realized
beyond his most exalted hopes--that he did not believe the angels would permit so perfect a
being as myself to dwell on earth--that to be loved by me for a day, for an hour, he would
willingly give up his life, and that such a sacrifice was a small price for such a love. I
dared not mar his happiness by giving expression to my sad fears. His presence allays my apprehensions;
he has so much confidence in the future that I cannot help being inspired with a portion of
it; thus, when he is near me, I feel happy and reassured, but if he leaves me for a moment
I am beset by myriads of terrible threatening phantoms. I accuse myself of having been imprudent
and cruel; I fear I have not, as you say, inspired two undying passions, two life-long devotions,
but exasperated two vindictive men. I well know that M. de Monbert did not love me, and yet
I fear his unjust resentment. I recall Edgar's absurd breach of faith, and Edgar, whose image
had until now only seemed ridiculous, Edgar appears before my troubled vision furious and threatening.
I am haunted by a vague remembrance: The day of my wedding, after the benediction, as we were
leaving the chapel, I was terribly frightened--in the silent gloom of the immense church I
heard a voice, an angry stifled voice, utter my name ... the name I bore at Pont de l'Arche--Louise!...
I quickly turned around to see whence came this voice that could affect me so powerfully at
such a moment! I could discover no one.... Louise!... Many women are called Louise, it is a
common name--perhaps it was some father calling his daughter, or some brother his sister. There
was nothing remarkable in the calling of this name, and yet it filled me with alarm. I recalled
Edgar's looks on that evening he was so angry with me; the rage gleaming in his eyes; the violent
contraction of his features, his voice terrible and stifled like the voice in the church, and
I was now convinced that his love was full of haughty pride, selfishness and hatred. But I
said to myself, if it had been he, he would have followed me and looked in our carriage--I
would have seen him in the church, or on the portico outside.... Besides, why should he have
come?... he had given up seeing me; he could easily have found me had he so desired; he knew
where Madame Taverneau's house was in Paris, and he knew that I lived with her; if he had hoped
to be received by me, he would have simply called to pay a visit.... Finally, if he was at
this early hour--six in the morning--in the church, at so great a distance from where I live,
it was not to act as a spy upon me. The man who called Louise was not Edgar--it could not have
been Edgar. This reflection reassured me. I questioned Raymond; he had seen no one, heard no
one. I remembered that M. de Meilhan was not in Paris, and tried to convince myself that it
was foolish to think of him any more. But yesterday I learned in a letter from Madame Taverneau--who
as yet knows nothing of my marriage or departure from Paris, and will not know, until a year
has elapsed, of the fortune I have settled upon her--I learned that M. de Meilhan left Havre
and came direct to Paris. His mother did not tell him that I had gone with her to bring him
home. When she found that her own influence was sufficient to detain him in France, she was
silent as to my share in the journey. I thank her for it, as I greatly prefer he should remain
ignorant of the foolish idea I had of sacrificing myself at his shrine in order to make his
mother happy. But what alarms me is that she keeps him in Paris because she knows that he will
learn the truth at Richeport, and because she hopes that the gayeties around him will more
quickly make him forget this love that so interfered with her ambitious projects. So Edgar
was in Paris the day of my wedding ... and perhaps ... but no, who could have told him anything?
I lived three miles from the parish where I was married.... It could not have been he ... and
yet I fear that man.... I remember with what bitterness and spite he spoke to me of Raymond,
in a letter, filled with unjust reproaches, that he wrote me three days after my departure
from Richeport. In this letter, which I immediately burned, he told me that M. de Villiers
was engaged to be married to his cousin. O how wretched this information made me! It had been
broken off years ago, but M. de Villiers thought the engagement still existed; he spoke of
it as a tie that would prevent his friend from indulging in any pretensions to my favor; and
yet what malevolence there was in his praise of him, what jealous fear in his insolent security!
How ingenuously he said: "Since I have no cause to fear him, why do I hate him?" I now remember
this hatred, and it frightens me. Aided by Roger he will soon know all; he will discover that
Irene de Chateaudun and Louise Guérin are the same person, and then two furious men will demand
an explanation of my trifling with their feelings and reproach me with the duplicity of my
conduct....