No. 234.] SATURDAY, APRIL 22.                    370

  QUERIES:--
  Genesis iv. 7.                                               371
  Roland the Brave                                             372
  Clay Tobacco-pipes, by Henry T. Riley                        372

  MINOR QUERIES:--Cabinet: Sheffield, Earl of Mulgrave,
  Marquis of Normanby, and Duke of Buckinghamshire--
  Bersethrigumnue--Lady Jane Grey--Addison and Watts--Lord
  Boteloust's Statue by Richard Hayware--Celtic in Devon--
  Knobstick--Aristotle--The Passion of our Lord dramatised--
  Ludwell: Lunsford: Kemp--Linnæan Medal--Lowth of Sawtrey:
  Robert Eden--Gentile Names of the Jews--The Black Prince--
  Maid of Orleans--Fawell Arms and Crest--"Had I met thee in
  thy beauty"--Portrait of D. P. Tremesin--Edition of
  "Othello"--Prospect House, Clerkenwell--Ancient Family of
  Widderington--Value of Money in the Seventeenth Century      373

  MINOR QUERIES WITH ANSWERS:--Ruin near St. Asaph, North
  Wales--Wafers--Asgill on Translation to Heaven--Ancient
  Custom at Coleshill                                          375

  REPLIES:--
  The Songs of Degrees                                         376
  American Poems imputed to English Authors                    377
  "Feather in your Cap"                                        378
  Perspective, by Benjamin Ferrey, &c.                         378
  Lord Fairfax, by T. Balch, &c.                               379
  "Consilium Defectorum Cardinalium," by Charles Hardwick, &c. 380

  PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE:--Mounting Positives--Mounting
  of Photographs and Difficulties in the Wax-paper Process--
  The New Waxed-paper, or Céroléine Process                    381

  REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES:--Origin of Clubs--Dr. Whichcote
  and Dorothy Jordan--"Paid down upon the Nail"--"Man proposes,
  but God disposes"--Roman Catholic Patriarchs--Classic
  Authors and the Jews--Mawkin--Mantelpiece--Mousehunt--
  "Vanitatem observare," &c.                                   383

  MISCELLANEOUS:--
  Notes on Books, &c.                                          386
  Books and Odd Volumes Wanted                                 387
  Notices to Correspondents                                    387

       *       *       *       *       *

Now ready. THE NEW AND IMPROVED EDITION, comprising all the restored passages and numerous
Additional Notes and Letters. in 4 vols. demy 8vo. with Portraits, &c., price 10s. 6d. each,
handsomely bound, of

SAMUEL PEPYS' DIARY AND CORRESPONDENCE.

    "Our friend Mr. Pepys here comes before the world in a new dress, even
    more convenient than the last. The Diary is now included in four
    volumes demy octavo: by which change Lord Braybrooke has found room for
    many fresh notes and illustrations. It is now an admirably edited book;
    carefully and worthily presented in all ways, and truly deserving of
    the place which it ought to find on all well-furnished
    bookshelves"--Examiner.

       *       *       *       *       *

This day is published, price 6s. 6d.

THE CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY CALENDAR FOR THE YEAR 1854.

Cambridge: JOHN DEIGHTON.

    Sold in London by LONGMAN & CO.; F. & J. RIVINGTON; WHITTAKER & CO.;
    SIMPKIN & CO.; J. W. PARKER & SON; GEORGE BELL; and by DEIGHTON &
    LAUGHTON, Liverpool.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE QUARTERLY REVIEW, No. CLXXXVIII., is published THIS DAY.

              CONTENTS:
     I. LAURENCE STERNE.
    II. SACRED GEOGRAPHY.
   III. THE WHIG PARTY.
    IV. THE RUSSIAN EMPIRE.
     V. THE CRIMINAL LAW DIGEST.
    VI. THE TURKS AND THE GREEKS.
   VII. TREASURES OF ART IN BRITAIN.
  VIII. NEW REFORM BILL.

JOHN MURRAY, Albemarle Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

Fifteenth Edition, fcp., cloth, price 7s.,

PROVERBIAL PHILOSOPHY. By MARTIN F. TUPPER, D.C.L., of Christ Church, Oxford.

Also, an ILLUSTRATED EDITION of "PROVERBIAL PHILOSOPHY," with above Sixty Designs by Cope,
Horsley, Pickersgill, Tenniel, Courbold, Birket Foster, and other eminent Artists.

London: T. HATCHARD, 187. Piccadilly; and of any Bookseller.

       *       *       *       *       *

T. BAKER'S CATALOGUE of Cheap and Valuable Second-hand BOOKS, Theological and Miscellaneous:
including a large Collection of OLD and MODERN DIVINITY, SERMONS, &c., may be had Gratis on
application, or by Post, by sending one Penny Stamp to frank it.

THOMAS BAKER. 19. Goswell Street, London.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKS BOUGHT, to any Amount, and the utmost Price given, for immediate Cash, thereby saving
the delay, uncertainty, and expense of Public Auction, by a Second-hand Bookseller of 20 years'
standing.

N.B.--Catalogues Gratis and Post Free. 20,000 Volumes of Books.

Apply to T. MILLARD, 70. Newgate Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now ready, price 6s.

PROFESSOR HUNT'S MANUAL OF PHOTOGRAPHY. Fourth Edition revised.

London and Glasgow: RICHARD GRIFFIN & CO.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO ETHNOLOGISTS.--MESSRS. TRÜBNER & CO. are preparing for immediate Publication, in one volume,
4to., 650 pp. profusely illustrated. price 1l. By J. C. NOTT, M.D. and G. R. GLIDDON, formerly
U.S. Consul at Cairo.

Gentlemen desirous of becoming Subscribers are requested to send their Names in as early as
possible.

Illustrated Prospectus to be had on application.

TRÜBNER & CO., 12. Paternoster Row.

       *       *       *       *       *

{366}

THE MANUAL OF SCIENCE AND ARTS, AND PHOTOGRAPHIC MISCELLANY.

NO. II. ON MAY 1ST, Containing Twenty-four Pages of Letterpress, Two Lithographic Plates, and
Numerous Woodcuts.

A Second Edition of No. I. in the Press.

MONTHLY, PRICE SIXPENCE.

London: WHITTAKER & CO.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BRITISH GALLERY OF HISTORICAL PORTRAITS; being a Collection of about Three Hundred Authentic
Portraits, Autography, Seals, Letters, &c., of Royal and Illustrious Personages in English
History and Literature, from the year 1420 to 1750, including many that are not to be found
in any other Collection; comprising the whole of the Series of British Autography formerly
published by MR. J. THANE, with Additional Portraits, Facsimiles, and Biographical Sketches
(only Fifty Sets published). 4 vols. imperial 8vo., half-bound, morocco backs, Price 2l. 2s.

Also,

A SUPPLEMENT TO THE BRITISH AUTOGRAPHY, formerly published by MR. J. THANE, containing Twenty-seven
new Portraits, with Facsimiles of the Handwriting, &c., a Portrait of Mr. Thane, some sheets
of Autographs, and new Biographical Sketches, ONLY ONE HUNDRED COPIES PRINTED. Quarto, same
size as the book, price 15s.

EDWARD DANIEL, Mortimer Street, Cavendish Square, London.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now ready,

HISTOIRE DE LA REVOLUTION D'ANGLETERRE.

(2^e Partie.)

HISTOIRE DE CROMWELL, par MONS. GUIZOT. 2 vols. 8vo. 14s. The same, 2 vols. 12mo., 7s. The
original Paris Editions.

DULAU & CO., Foreign Booksellers, 7. Soho Square.

       *       *       *       *       *

RECENT PUBLICATIONS OF THE CAMBRIDGE ANTIQUARIAN SOCIETY.

QUARTO SERIES.

Evangelia Augustini Gregoriana. By the REV. J. GOODWIN, B.D. 20s.

An Historical Inquiry touching St. Catherine of Alexandria, Illustrated by a Semi-Saxon Legend.
By the REV. C. HARDWICK, M.A. 12s.

OCTAVO SERIES.

I. Anglo-Saxon Legends of St. Andrew and St. Veronica. By C. W. GOODWIN, M.A. 3s. 6d.

II. Græco-Egyptian Fragment on Magic. By C. W. GOODWIN, M.A. 3s. 6d.

III. Ancient Cambridgeshire. By C. C. BABINGTON, M.A. 3s. 6d.

Reports and Communications, Nos. I. and II. 1s. each.

Index to Baker Manuscripts. 7s. 6d.

J. DEIGHTON; MACMILLAN & CO., Cambridge.

JOHN W. PARKER & SON, and GEORGE BELL, London.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHRONICLES OF THE ANCIENT BRITISH CHURCH, previous to the Arrival of St. Augustine, A.D. 596.
Second Edition. Post 8vo. Price 5s. cloth.

    "A work of great utility to general readers."--Morning Post.

    "The author has collected with much industry and care all the
    information which can throw light on his subject."--Guardian.

    "Not unworthy the attention of our clerical friends."--Notes and
    Queries, ii. 453.

London: WERTHEIM & MACINTOSH, 24. Paternoster Row, and of all Booksellers.

       *       *       *       *       *

EVANS'S PATENT SHOWER BATHS, Warm and Cold Baths, Slipper, Leg, Hip, and Foot Baths, Sponging
and Douch Baths, and Baths of every description, combining all recent improvements, and every
variety of shape and pattern.

GARDEN ROLLERS, GARDEN ENGINES, Horticultural TOOLS, Scythes, Shears, Syringes, and Garden
requisites in general. Also a variety of new pattern GARDEN SEATS, Chairs, &c.

TEA and COFFEE URNS, Percolators, and machines of new and elegant designs, combining all the
recent French and English improvements.

PAPIER MACHE TEA TRAYS and WAITERS, Table CUTLERY, plated ware, Patent DISH COVERS, and every
article for the Kitchen always on show at

    JEREMIAH EVANS, SON, and COMPANY'S STOVE, GRATE, and COOKING APPARATUS
    Manufactory and Warehouses, 33. KING WILLIAM STREET. London Bridge.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SWEET VESPER BELLS OF ANCONA.--Ballad, Written and composed by JOHN PARRY, and illustrated
with reminiscences of Ancona, after a sketch from the Composer's own portfolio. 2s. 6d. This
admired song is altogether one of the happiest conceptions of this gifted favourite of the public.

HAMILTON and the PIANOFORTE.--Just published, the Fifty-fifth Edition of this extraordinarily
popular Author's MODERN INSTRUCTIONS for the PIANOFORTE, newly revised and greatly enlarged.
By CARL CZERNY, pupil of Beethoven. Large music folio, 62 pages, price only 4s.

London: ROBERT COCKS & CO., New Burlington Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

The important Productions of Henry Shaw, Esq., F.S.A., including the Copyrights. These magnificent
works have reached the greatest degree of excellence, are of the most splendid character, and
may be justly designated the highest of their several classes in point of artistic merit, pictorial
beauty, and literary worth. May be viewed on the Friday and Saturday previous. Catalogues had
at place of Sale.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sale of Photographic Pictures, Landscape Camera by Horne & co.; also Prints and Drawings.

Catalogues will be sent on Application (if at a distance, on Receipt of Two Stamps.)

       *       *       *       *       *

{367}

LONDON, SATURDAY, APRIL 22, 1854.

Notes.

WHITEFIELD AND KENNINGTON COMMON.

Your correspondent the REV. W. SPARROW SIMPSON (Vol. ix., p. 295.) has given some interesting
little notes respecting the past history of Kennington Common. Other notes might be added,
and which should not be overlooked in a record of events connected with a spot whose associations
and whose name are about to pass away for ever. After all, it is a righteous act, a noble deed,
a benevolent mission, that gives a kind of immortality to a locality. It was here that the
ever memorable George Whitefield proclaimed in an earnest voice, and with an earnest look,
the gospel of Jesus Christ to multitudes of his fellow-creatures. He was wonderfully endowed
by God for his great work, and the evidence of his vast success is to be found in the fact
that immense numbers flocked from all parts to listen to the tidings which he had to deliver.
He had audiences on Kennington Common amounting to ten, twenty and thirty thousand people,
great numbers of whom were savingly impressed by his message. He melted their hearts, and sent
them away, reflecting on the great problems of man's history, and on the dignity and destiny
of the human mind. Take the following from his published diary, which is now scarce, and not
much known:

    "Sunday, April 29, 1731. At five in the evening went and preached at
    Kennington Common, about two miles from London, where upwards of 20,000
    people were supposed to be present. The wind being for me, it carried
    the voice to the extremest part of the audience. All stood attentive,
    and joined in the Psalm and Lord's Prayer so regularly, that I scarce
    ever preached with more quietness in any church. Many were much
    affected."

    "Sunday, May 6, 1731. At six in the evening preached at Kennington; but
    such a sight I never saw before. Some supposed there were above 30,000
    or 40,000 people, and near fourscore coaches, besides great numbers of
    horses; and there was such an awful silence amongst them, and the Word
    of God came with such power, that all seemed pleasingly surprised. I
    continued my discourse for an hour and a half."

    "Sunday, July 22, 1739. Went to St. Paul's and received the blessed
    Sacrament, and preached in the evening at Kennington Common to about
    30,000 hearers. God gave me great power."

    "Friday, August 3, 1739. Having spent the day in completing my affairs
    (about to embark for America), and taking leave of my dear friends, I
    preached in the evening to near 20,000 at Kennington Common. I chose to
    discourse on St. Paul's parting speech to the elders at Ephesus, at
    which the people were exceedingly affected, and almost prevented my
    making any application. Many tears were shed when I talked of leaving
    them. I concluded all with a suitable hymn, but could scarce get to the
    coach for the people thronging me, to take me by the hand, and give me
    a parting blessing."

Let those who have a deep sympathy with the great and good, who have served their age with
exalted devotion and burning zeal, remember that on that very spot which is now called Kennington
Park, this extraordinary man lifted up his powerful voice, and with commanding attitude, with
the tenderest affection, with persuasive tones, and with thrilling appeals, proclaimed the
"glorious gospel of the blessed God" to multitudes of the human family. He preached as in the
light, and on the borders of the eternal world. It is such facts as these that will enhance
in mind and memory the interest of such a spot. The philosophy of Whitefield's life has yet
to be written.

H. M. BEALBY.

North Brixton.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANACHRONISMS.

Mr. Thackeray makes another trip in the present (April) number of The Newcomes. Clive writes
a letter dated "May 1, 183--," which is at once answered by Pendennis, who sends him "an extract
from Bagham's article on the Royal Academy," and Mr. Thackeray makes the critic ask, "Why have
we no picture of the sovereign and her august consort from Smee's brush?" To which it may be
answered, "Because, even if the '183--' represents the time of Victoria's reign, her Majesty
did not take unto herself an 'august consort' until Feb. 10, 1840." It may also be observed,
that in all the illustrations to Mr. Thackeray's delightful story, Mr. Doyle has clothed the
dramatis personæ in the dresses of the present day. A notable example of this occurs at p.
75., in his clever sketch of Mrs. Newcome's At Home, "a small early party" given in the year
1833, the date being determined by a very simple act of mental arithmetic, since the author
informs us that the colonel went to the party in the mufti-coat "sent him out by Messrs. Stultz
to India in the year 1821," and which he had "been in the habit of considering a splendid coat
for twelve years past." The anachronism on Mr. Doyle's part is probably intentional. Indeed,
he only follows the example which Mr. Thackeray had justified in these words:

    "It was the author's intention, faithful to history, to depict all the
    characters of this tale in their proper costumes, as they wore them at
    the commencement of the century. But, when I remember the appearance of
    people in those days, and that an officer and lady were actually
    habited like this [here follows one of Mr. Thackeray's graphic
    sketches], I have not the heart to disfigure my heroes and heroines by
    costumes so hideous; and have, on the contrary, engaged a {368} model
    of rank dressed according to the present fashion."--Vanity Fair, note
    to p. 55.

And, certainly, when one looks at a fashion-book published some twenty years ago, one cannot
feel surprised at Mr. Doyle, or any other man of taste, preferring to commit an anachronism,
rather than depict frights and monstrosities.

CUTHBERT BEDE, B.A.

       *       *       *       *       *

CEPHAS, A BINDER, AND NOT A ROCK.

Some of the multifarious readers of "N. & Q." may feel interested in the suggestion of an original
solution on Matt. xvi. 16-19. I submit it (not presumptuously, but hopefully), that its examination
and discussion, by your learned readers, may throw more light upon my humble endeavour to elucidate
a passage which seems to have been darkened "by a multitude of words."

The solution I propose is an extract from my MS. annotations on the Hebrew Old Testament, and
forms a portion of a note on Habakkuk ii. 11. It will be desirable, for the readier comprehension
of my exposition, to give the original, with a literal translation, of the verse alluded to:

              [Hebrew: KY 'BN MQYR TZ`Q]
              [Hebrew: WKPYS M`TS Y`NNH:]
 "For the [Ebhen] stone shall cry out of the wall,
  And the [Caphis] fastening shall testify out of the timber."[1]

This verse has passed into a proverb amongst the Jews in every part of the world. It is invariably
quoted to express the impossibility of secrecy or concealment; or to intimate the inevitable
publicity of a certain fact. In short, the proverb implies the same meaning which our Lord's
answer to the Pharisees expressed, viz., "If these should hold their peace, the stones would
immediately cry out" (Luke xix. 40.). I have myself heard the words under note used as a proverb,
in this manner, amongst the Jews of Europe, Asia, and Africa. I am, moreover, inclined to believe
that it was already one of the national proverbs in the days of our Lord.

All this may appear irrelevant to the critical exposition of this verse; but the consideration
may help to clear up an apparently obscure passage in the New Testament, namely, Matt. xvi. 16-19.

Thinking, or expressing, that concealment of the Messiahship of Jesus was impracticable. 11.)
has it, "a fastener," from the verb [Hebrew: KPS] (Caphas), to bind, to connect, to join.

That our Lord never used the Greek word [Greek: su ei Petros] all must admit; that [Greek:
Kêphas] is not the Syriac word for stone is well known to every Oriental scholar. The proper
Syriac word for stone is [Syriac: K'P']. However, there is a resemblance between the respective
words, which may have been the origin of Simon's second surname--I mean to that of Cephas--Peter.

The import of Matt. xvi. 16-19. seems to me to be this: Christ acknowledges Simon to be part
and parcel of the house, the Church; nay, more, He tells Simon that He intends him to be a
"master-builder," to join, or bind, many members to that Church, all of which would be owned
of Him. But the Church itself must be built upon the Ebhen, the Stone; by which Jesus evidently
alluded to Ps. cxviii. 22.:

          [Hebrew: 'BN M'SW HBWNYM]
          [Hebrew: HYTH LR'SH PNH:]
 "The Ebhen which the builders refused
  Is become the head stone of the corner."

(Compare Matt. xxi. 42.)

May I ask whether the words [Greek: ho ermêneutai Petros] are to be considered as the words
of St. John, or of his transcribers? The question may appear startling to some, but my copy
of the Syriac New Testament is minus that sentence.

MOSES MARGOLIOUTH.

Wybunbury, Nantwich.

[Footnote 1: See also the marginal readings.]

       *       *       *       *       *

EPITAPHS, ETC.

Epitaphs.--There is, or was, one at Pisa which thus concludes:

   "Doctor doctorum jacet hac Burgundius urna,
    Schema Magistrorum, laudabilis et diuturna;
    Dogma poetarum cui littera Græca, Latina,
    Ars Medicinarum patuit sapientia trina.
  {369}
    Et nunc Pisa, dole, tristeris Thuscia tota,
    Nullus sub sole est cui sic sunt omnia nota.
    Rursus ab Angelico coetu super aera vectum
    Nuper et Angelico, coelo gaude te receptum.
  Ann. Dom. MCLXXXXIIII. III Calend. Novembr."

Nearer home, in Shoreditch churchyard:

    "Sacred to the memory of Sarah Micci, who departed this life April 7th,
    1819, aged 50 years.

      Memento judicii mei, sic enim erit mihi heri, tibi hodie."

Not far from this is the following laconic one:

    "Dr. John Gardner's last and best bed-room, who departed this life the
    8th of April, 1835, in his 84th year."

Which reminds me of one at Finedon:

 "Here lyeth Richard Dent,
  In his last tenement.
          1709."

B. H. C.

Curious Inscription (Vol. iv., p. 88.).--In the first edition of Imperatorum Romanorum Numismata
Aurea, by De Bie, Antwerp, 1615, at the foot of a page addressed "Ad Lectorem," and marked
c. ii., are the following verses, which may be noted as forming a pendant to those referred to:

    ri        R     S        D       D
 "Sc  ptorum   erum  ummorum  espice  icta
    ul        V     N        R       P

   st  Qu     R    I        N   I    T
  I  a   idem  isu  aciemus  am  nde  acebunt."
   ll   F     V    F        I   V    Pl

                  Signed "C. HÆTTRON."

W. H. SCOTT.

Edinburgh.

Epitaph in Lavenham Church, Norfolk.--

 "Continuall prayse these lynes in brass
  Of Allaine Dister here,
  Clothier vertuous whyle he was
  In Lavenham many a yeare;
  For as in lyfe he loved best
  The poore to clothe and feede,
  Soe with the riche and alle the reste,
  He neighbourlie agreed;
  And did appoint before he died,
  A smalle yearlie rent,
  Which would be every Whitsuntide
  Among the poorest spent."

I send you this copy from a nibbing of a quaint epitaph, made in the beautiful old church of
Lavenham many years since, with a view to putting a Query as to its construction. The first
two lines, as I read them, want a verb, unless we read the conclusion of the first line as
a verb, to in-brasse (i.e. to record in brass). Can any of your readers give me an authority,
from an old author, for the use of this or any similar verb? To in-grain seems somewhat like
it, but is modern. If no authority for such a verb can be given, I should be glad to have the
construction of the lines explained.

A. B. R.

Belmont.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE RIGBY CORRESPONDENCE.

    [In "N. & Q.," Vol. vii., pp. 203. 264. 349., mention is made of this
    correspondence. The letters, of which the following are copies, were
    sold as waste paper, and are in my possession. They appear to have been
    written by the Rt. Hon. Richard Rigby, Master of the Rolls in Ireland,
    and relate to the appointment of an Examiner in the Chancery in the
    year 1783.

    JAMES F. FERGUSON.]

    Dublin.

    St. James's Place,

    24th May, 1783.

      My dear Lord,

    I return you many thanks for your two letters of y^e 10th and 11th
    inst., and for the trouble you are so obliging as to take on y^e
    business of the Examiner's Office. I have found a copy of an
    appointment of an Examiner transmitted to me by Lodge in the year 1762,
    and I send you Mr. Meredith's appointment upon the stamp'd paper you
    inclosed to me. If that appointment will not answer, or if the stamp is
    not a proper one, as you seem to hint may be the case, I must desire
    you to tell Mr. Perry to make out a proper appointment and send it over
    ready for my signature. I shou'd hope the one I send herewith will
    answer, that you may have no further trouble. I perceive five hundred
    pounds English was y^e sum I receiv'd in 1762; and I imagine that is
    the sum Mr. Meredith proposes to give now, and to which I give my
    consent.

    I thank you for inquiring after my health; my fits of the gout are not
    very violent, but I am very glad you never have any of them. Pray make
    my best comp^{ts} to Scott, and tell him that I din'd yesterday at
    Streatham with Macnamara, who is getting better, notwithstanding the
    weather here is as cold as at Christmas.

    I am, my dear Lord, with all possible regard, your most sincere friend
    and oblig'd humble servant,

    RICHARD RIGBY.

    Your stamp'd paper was not large enough, but my servant found a stamp'd
    paper at Lincoln's Inn.

    ------

    St. James's Place,

    9th June, 1783.

      My dear Lord,

    Ten thousand thanks for all the trouble you are so kind (as) to take in
    my affairs; this day I receiv'd yours of the 31st May, with the bill
    {370} inclosed for 498l. 2s. 5d. If the instrument I sent over should
    not be satisfactory, I will sign any new deed which shall be sent me
    for the purpose.

    I have not much acquaintance w^{th} Lord Northington; but seeing him at
    St. James's the day he took leave of the King, I wish'd him success in
    his new government, and took the liberty to mention your name to him as
    y^e person in the whole kingdom whose advice would be most beneficial
    to him. I told him I asked no favour of him but one, which was to
    recollect what I then said to him if he should have occasion to call
    upon you for advice and assistance hereafter, when he would find it for
    his great satisfaction to be well founded.

    I am, my dear Lord, your most obliged and faithful humble servant,

    RICHARD RIGBY.

      To the Rt. Honorable Lord Ch. Justice Paterson, at Dublin.
          Free, R. Rigby.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WANDERING BEE.

 "High mountains closed the vale,
  Bare, rocky mountains, to all living things
  Inhospitable; on whose sides no herb
  Rooted, no insect fed, no bird awoke
  Their echoes, save the eagle, strong of wing;
    A lonely plunderer, that afar
    Sought in the vales his prey.

 "Thither towards those mountains Thalaba
  Advanced, for well he ween'd that there had Fate
  Destined the adventure's end.
  Up a wide vale, winding amid their depths,
  A stony vale between receding heights
  Of stone, he wound his way.
  A cheerless place! The solitary Bee,
  Whose buzzing was the only sound of life,
  Flew there on restless wing,
  Seeking in vain one blossom, where to fix."
                      Thalaba, book vi. 12, 13.

This incident of the wandering bee, highly poetical, seems at first sight very improbable,
and passes for one of the many strange creations of this wild poem. But yet it is quite true
to nature, and was probably suggested to Southey, an omnivorous reader, by some out-of-the-way
book of travels.

In Hurton's Voyage to Lapland, vol. ii. p. 251., published a few years since, he says that
as he stood on the verge of the North Cape,--

    "The only living creature that came near me was a bee, which hummed
    merrily by. What did the busy insect seek there? Not a blade of grass
    grew, and the only vegetable matter on this point was a cluster of
    withered moss at the very edge of the awful precipice, and it I
    gathered at considerable risk as a memorial of my visit."

A. B.

Philadelphia.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Notes.

Tippet.--The origin of words signifying articles of dress would be a curious subject for investigation.
Tippet is derived by Barclay from the Saxon tæppet; but I find the following passage in Captain
Erskine's Journal of his recent Cruise in the Western Pacific, p. 36. He is writing of the
dress of the women at the village of Feleasan, in the Samoan Islands:

    "And occasionally a garment (tiputa) resembling a small poncho, with
    a slit for the head, hanging so as decently to conceal the bosom."

May we not trace here both the article and the name?

W. T. M.

Ridings and Chaffings.--A singular custom prevails in South Nottinghamshire and North Leicestershire.
When a husband, forgetting his solemn vow to love, honour, and keep his wife, has had recourse
to physical force and beaten her, the rustics get up what is called "a riding." A cart is drawn
through the village, having in it two persons dressed so as to resemble the woman and her master.
A dialogue, representing the quarrel, is carried on, and a supposed representation of the beating
is inflicted. This performance is {371} always specially enacted before the offender's door.

Another, and perhaps less objectionable, mode of shaming men out of a brutal and an unmanly
practice, is to empty a sack of chaff at the offender's door,--an intimation, I suppose, that
thrashing has been "done within." Perhaps this latter custom gave rise to the term "chaffing."
Thirty years ago both these customs were very common in this locality; but, either from an
improved tone of morality, or from the comparative rarity of the offence that led to them,
both ridings and chaffings are now of very rare occurrence.

Can any reader of "N. & Q." inform me whether these customs have prevailed, or still prevail,
in other counties?

THOMAS R. POTTER.

Wymeswold, Leicestershire.

Henry of Huntingdon's "Letter to Walter."--Mr. Forester (Bohn's Antiquarian Library) decides,
in opposition to Wharton and Hardy, that this epistle was written in 1135, during the lifetime
of Henry I., and there can be no doubt that the passage he quotes bears him out in this; but
it is not less certain that, whether owing to the death of the friend to whom the letter was
addressed, or from a wholesome fear of the resentment of that king who is so roughly handled
in it, the publication was deferred long enough for the author to reinforce by a few "modern
instances" of more recent date, the "wise saws" which are so plentifully diffused through it:
for instance, at p. 313. he mentions the death of Louis VI. of France, which occurred 1st August,
1137, twenty months after the death of Henry. And it is probable that a closer search than
I have the means of making, would reveal other instances of a like nature, though this is sufficient
by itself.

After all, is it not possible that the worthy archdeacon (like Bolingbroke at a future day)
may have antedated his letter to give himself an air of boldness and independence beyond what
he really possessed? This would account not only for the references to later occurrences, but
for the accurate fulfilment of the prophecy which he quotes about the duration of the reign
of Henry I.

J. S. WARDEN.

Arthuriana.--List of places designated with traditional reference to King Arthur. (To be continued.)

In Cornwall:

    King Arthur's Castle. Nutagel.

    King Arthur's Hall. An oblong inclosure on the moors, near Camelford.

    King Arthur's bed. A slab of granite with pack-shaped piece for
    bolster, on Trewortha tor.

S. R. PATTISON.

Encyclopedia of Indexes, or Tables of Contents.--I should like your opinion, and that of the
readers of "N. & Q.," as to the desirableness and practicability of forming a collection of
the indexes of those books most commonly required to be referred to by authors and scholars.
In reading up on any subject, when it is wished to know whether any author treats upon it,
mainly or incidentally, his works must be examined at a great expense of time and labour. Perhaps
some of your learned readers will express their views as to the value of such a thesaurus,
and give suggestions as to the principles which ought to regulate its execution.

THINKS I TO MYSELF.

Errata in Nichols' "Collectanea Topographica et Genealogica."--Works of this kind, unless strictly
accurate, cause great perplexity and confusion, and are indeed of little use. I therefore wish
to note in your pages that at vol. viii. p. 38. of the above work it is stated that Babington
"married Juliana, daughter of Sir Thomas Rowe, Alderman of London." Harl. MSS. 1174. p. 89.,
1551. p. 28., 1096. p. 71., inform us that Julian Rowe, daughter of Sir William Rowe, who was
Lord Mayor of London in 1592, married Francis Babington. Sir William and Sir Thomas were first
cousins. In the same page Sir Thomas Rowe is stated to have died in 1612; on his tomb we are
told that he died in 1570.

TEE BEE.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUERIES.

GENESIS IV. 7.

Can any of your learned Hebraists elucidate the passage in Gen. iv. 7., which called forth
the following remarks from Bishop Sandford?

    "As yet I cannot abandon the literal interpretation of the words
    [Hebrew: LAPETACH CHAT`A'T ROBEITS], and I am much surprised that, in
    all the criticism bestowed on this verse by Davison and the authors
    whom he quotes, nothing is said of the word [Hebrew: PETACH]. I do not
    know of any place in Holy Scripture where this word is used
    figuratively, and unless this can be shown, there is no supporting so
    strong a metaphor as the advocates of the figurative meaning of the
    passage contend for. Davison takes no notice of the remainder of the
    verse.... Now the words are remarkable; they are the same as those in
    which the Lord declares the subjection of Eve to her husband, Gen. iii.
    16. I have always thought this passage (Gen. iv. 7.) to allude to Abel;
    and to promise to Cain the continuance of the priority of
    primogeniture, if he were reconciled to God."--Remains of Bishop
    Sandford, vol. i. p. 135.

With respect to the word [Hebrew: PETACH], the literal interpretation of which is a door, entrance,
or gate, Archbishop Magee renders the passage thus: "A sin-offering lieth before or at the
door," the word [Hebrew: RBEITS] implying to crouch or lie down as an animal; thereby alluding
to the sacrifice which was {372} appointed for the remission of sins, and was typical of the
great sacrifice of the Lamb of God, who was to be slain for the sin of the world. The whole
verse would thus stand, according to Archbishop Magee's interpretation:

    "If thou doest well, shalt thou not have the excellency or
    pre-eminence? and if thou doest not well, a sin-offering lieth before
    the door [i.e. is prepared, or at hand, for thee]; and unto thee
    shall be his subjection, and thou shalt rule over him [i.e. over
    Abel]."

Luther's translation is at variance with this:

    "Wenn du fromm bist, so bist du angenehm, bist du aber nicht fromm, so
    ruhet die Sünde vor der Thür. Aber lass du ihr nicht ihren Willen,
    sondern herrsche über sie."

In the margin of Luther's Bible is a reference in this verse to Rom. vi. 12., plainly showing
that he considered it as an admonition to Cain to struggle against sin, lest it should gain
the dominion over him.

Bishop Sandford farther observes:

