  I approve Non-intervention. 'Tis your favourite doctrine, JOHN,
  And you stick to it so closely, and that's just why you get on.
  If you think that Dragon's dangerous--I hold 'tis but his play!--
  There's but one thing you've got to do--clear out of the brute's way.

  I am sure he doesn't want you where you've stayed a deal too long;
  He wishes you would up and go to--well not to Hong-Kong,
  But the natural home of all such "Foreign Devils," in his view.
  Why, he's none too sweet on Me, JOHN; is it likely he'd like you?

  Grattez le Russe--et cetera. You are mighty fond, J.B.,
  Of quoting that stale epigram. You fancy it riles me.
  Not a bit of it, my Briton; Tartars have a thickish skin,
  And your foe and I are neighbours, nay a distant sort of kin.

  The Mantchus and the Romanoffs are not exactly chums,
  And a Tartar insurrection, when that little trouble comes,
  As it may do if you press too much at Pekin, well, who knows?
  There is always something pleasing in the quarrels of one's foes.

  The Mantchus miss a many of once subject Tartar tribes
  Who have--gravitated Russwards. Little call for blows or bribes
  To make blood-relations mingle. On the Mantchus this may jar,
  But we've not forgotten Kuldja, and we recollect Kashgar.

  Wheels within wheels, dear JOHNNY! As to missionaries, well,
  They are troublesome--and useful; but to put things all pell-mell
  On account of priests and parsons, and of quite an alien creed,
  That's scarce "diplomatic," JOHNNY; it is not, dear boy, indeed.

  A new Tamerlane, my JOHNNY, who could stir the Tartar hordes
  To--say "Asiatic Concert,"--well, you know that thought affords
  To your talky "Only General" a quite sensational theme.
  But prophecy's not "business," JOHN, and CÆSAR should not dream.

  Oh! the world is full of Bogies. I'm the biggest of them all
  In the minds of many croakers who ne'er saw the Chinese Wall,
  But are frightened at the spreading of my kindred--on the map;
  For I'm semi-Asiatic, and half Tartar, dear old chap.

  Now put this and that together, think of Pamir, Turkestan,
  Of Persia, of the Dardanelles!--I think you'll see, old man,
  That though this ramping Dragon you may wish to tie and tame,
  A Benevolent Neutrality is rather more my game.

       *       *       *       *       *

A PLAYGOER'S "LAST WORD."

(AN ECHO FROM THE PIT.)

  The Season is--has been for some time--silly,
    And lengthy correspondences are rife.
  We have, alas! to read them willy-nilly;
    They take a deal of pleasure out of life.
  To flee such evils here's an easy way--
    Let morning dailies idly rant or vapour,
  At the Lyceum go and see the play,
    The programme there's the finest DALY paper.[2]

[Footnote 2: A Correspondent, signing himself "A Knight of the Free Lists," suggests that free
admissions to the Lyceum should be known, during the American Company's season, as "The Best
Daly 'Paper.'"]

       *       *       *       *       *

MOTTO FOR A DEPRESSED TEETOTALLER.--"Whine and Water."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

TIPPLING SALLY.

A SONG OF SORROW ON ZOO SUNDAY.

    [SALLY, the Chimpanzee (late of the Zoo), is stated to have
    "drunk beer daily."]

  Of all the monkeys at the Zoo
    There's none like Tippling SALLY.
  She was the first who quenched her thirst
    Quite al-co-hol-i-cally.
  A draught of beer made her not queer,
    But seemed her strength to rally.
  MORTIMER GRANVILLE well might cheer
    Three cheers for Tippling SALLY.

  Of all the days within the week
    I chiefly favoured one day,
  That was the day when children seek
    The rapture called "Zoo Sunday."
  For then full drest all in my best
    I'd go and visit SALLY,
  And see her soothe her hairy breast
    So al-co-hol-i-cally!

  But now no more poor SALLY's tricks
    With glee fill girl or boy full;
  No mug of beer her soul can cheer,
    Nor glass of O-be-joyful!
  We yet may see some Chimpanzee
    With Drink's temptations dally,
  To WILFRID's woe; but no, ah! no!
    It won't be Tippling SALLY!

       *       *       *       *       *

AN ESSAY IN REVIEWING.

We are obliged to "Beginner" for the proffered contribution to our collection of Book Reviews.
That is, however, a department of the paper our noble friend the BARON DE BOOK-WORMS reserves
for his own pen. But as Mr. Punch has never been known to discourage beginners, he finds room
here for the interesting contribution, which perhaps should more appropriately have been addressed
to his confrère at the office of the Athenæum:--

Don Quixote. By MIGUEL CERVANTES. We have conscientiously plodded through this voluminous work,
which is certainly not entirely without merit. It purports to recount the daily doings of a
resident in a village of La Mancha (Spain) who, accompanied by a clownish retainer, went forth
in search of adventures. He was not very happy, his day's sport being invariably rounded oft
by a sound drubbing, received either by himself, his Squire, or both. We wish Lord MACAULAY
had lived to see the publication of this work, and had with fuller leisure relieved us of the
task of reviewing it. Remembering his method of procedure as illustrated in his article on
Dr. NARE's Memoirs of Lord Burleigh, he would doubtless by careful enumeration have been able
to show that from first to last Don Quixote had more ribs broken than any man has actually
possessed since ADAM was privy to a diminution of their original number. He seems also to have
had a perpetual renewal of teeth, keeping pace with their frequent removal by brute force.
As for the number of legs and arms he had fractured, MACAULAY's Schoolboy would have shrunk
from the task of computing their aggregate.

These are blemishes upon a work that is, at least, well intentioned, and which might have been
more successful had our author been inclined to give his hero credit for more acumen. When
he represents Don Quixote as running tilt at windmills under the impression that they are armed
knights, and when he pictures him charging a flock of sheep in the belief that it is an ordered
army, we think he too grossly trifles with the assumed credulity of his readers. Exaggeration
is, indeed, the bane of a work that, from first page to last, bears evidence of the drawback
of extreme youth on the part of the author. We have been pleased to notice some indications
of humour in the conversation of Sancho Panza. But it is the pennyworth of sack to an intolerably
large quantity of bread. What we have written has been without desire to discourage Mr. CERVANTES,
whom we shall be glad to meet with again, bringing with him the fruits of unremitted practice
and of maturer views of life.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO ARAMINTA.

(AFTER HEARING MR. SAMSON'S LECTURE.)

    ["To keep the family true, refined, affectionate, faithful,
    is the woman's task--a task that needs the entire energies and
    life of woman; and to mix up this sacred duty with the grosser
    occupation of politics and trade, is to unfit her for it
    as much as if a priest were to embark in the business of
    money-lender."--FREDERIC HARRISON.]

  I Prithee, ARAMINTA, hear
    What FREDERIC HARRISON has said:
  Don't read for College honours, dear,
    And put a towel round your head.
  Don't sully what should surely be
    An unstained soul, with tricks of trade;
  Leave stern official work to me,
    While you remain a simple maid.

  Don't prate of woman's function, sweet,
    Your only duty is to charm;
  Leave platform spouting, as is meet,
    To men; it cannot do them harm.
  Your influence comes from gracious ways,
    Your glory in the home doth lie;
  The guardian angel of our days,
    Until you bless us when we die.

  Don't enter on ignoble strife
    With man, 'tis yours to soar above--
  To all the higher things of life,
    Divine compassion, and pure love.
  'Tis yours to stimulate, refine,
    To win men by a kindly heart;
  Not grovel with us where the sign
    Of Mammon hangs above the mart.

  Thine is the task to reign supreme
    Within the sacred sphere of home;
  To make our life one happy dream,
    Thine own as spotless as the foam.
  To trade, to toil, to head the feast,
    To seek the politician's gain,
  Were hateful:--ay, as though the priest
    Took usury, within the fane!

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

BARON DE BOOK-WORMS owns to being easily affected by a pathetic episode. He well remembers
how years ago in the course of a discussion among literary men about books and their writers,
the Baron acknowledged that in spite of his having been told how the pathos of DICKENS was
all a trick, and how the sentiment of that great novelist was for the most part false, he still
felt a choking sensation in his throat and a natural inclination to blow his nose strenuously
whenever he re-read the death of Little Paul, the death of Dora, and some passages about Tiny
Tim. There was no dissentient voice as to the death of Colonel Newcome; all admitted the recurrence
of that peculiar choking sensation, read they their THACKERAY never so often. Now the Baron
differs from Josh Sedley in, as he thinks, many respects, but he is almost as "easily moved
to tears" as was that stout hero. Wherefore this preface? Well, 'tis because the Baron owns
to having "snivelled," if you will, when reading a delightful story, published by MACMILLAN
in one volume ("bless all good stories in one vol., clearly printed!" says the Baron, parenthetically),
entitled simply, Tim. No relation to Tiny Tim already mentioned; quite another child. The Baron
strongly recommends this story, and especially to Etonians past and present, as giving a life-like
picture which the latter will recognise, of the career at that great public school of a fragile
little chap entirely unfitted by nature for the rough and tumble of such a life. The considerate
tutor, too, is no effort of imagination; he exists; and, perhaps, such an one may have always
existed since the division between Collegers and Oppidans first began. The Baron in his own
time, nigh forty years ago, knew an exceptional species of this rare genus; but there are plenty
of witnesses to the truth of the Etonian portion of Tim. "Tolle, lege!" quoth the Baron, and
be not ashamed if in reading the latter portion of the story you have to search for your pocket-handkerchief,
and, glancing furtively around, murmur to yourself, "But soft! I am observed!" Then when unobserved,
"wipe the other eye!" and thank the unknown author of Tim; at the same time not forgetting
your guide, philosopher, and friend,

THE BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A FALLEN LEADER.

CHARLES STEWART PARNELL.

BORN, JUNE 27TH, 1846. DIED, OCTOBER 6TH, 1891.

    "The falcon-crest and plumage gone,
      Can that be haughty MARMION?"

Sir Walter Scott.

  Fallen! And not as leaders love to fall,
  In battle's forefront, loved and mourned by all;
  But fiercely fighting, as for his own hand,
  With the scant remnant of a broken band;
  His chieftainship, well-earned in many a fray,
  Rent from him--by himself!
            None did betray
  This sinister strong fighter to his foes;
  He fell by his own action, as he rose.
  He had fought all--himself he could not fight,
  Nor rise to the clear air of patient right.
  Somewhere his strenuous soul unsoundly rang,
  When closely tested. Let the laurels hang
  About his tomb, for, with whatever fault,
  He led with valour cool a fierce assault
  Upon a frowning fortress, densely manned
  With strong outnumbering enemies. He planned
  Far-seen campaigns apparently forlorn;
  He fronted headlong hate and scourging scorn,
  Impassively persistent. But the task
  Of coldly keeping up the Stoic mask
  O'ertaxed him at the last; it fell, and lo!
  Another face was bared to friend and foe.
  Scarce to his foes will generous judgment lean--
  Foes mean as merciless, and false as mean,
  Their poisoned pens, which even softening Death,
  Which hate should hush and stifle slander's breath,
  May not deprive of venom, prodding still
  The unresponsive corse they helped to kill,
  Is an ignoble sight. Turn, turn away!
  Mean hates pursue the MARMION of our day,
  A nobler foe, like DOUGLAS, well may rue
  His fall, and sigh, "'Tis pity of him, too!"

       *       *       *       *       *

MOTTO FOR THE MOMENT.

(BY A MILITANT RADICAL CANDIDATE.)

  Ah! I must trounce the Tory foe,
    And love my Toiling neighbour.
  The cry with which to fight I go
    Is "Labour and Belabour!"

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE G.P. AND THE G.P.O.

(A DIALOGUE STRICTLY ACCORDING TO PRECEDENT.)

General Public. I am sorry to say the condition of the Postal Service is really extremely defective.
The delay in the delivery of letters is most annoying. Frequently a note which should be received
in the evening is not obtained until the following morning--proof of this being given by the
post-marks.

General Post Office. Your complaint shall receive consideration.

G.P. You are most kind. Next, a telegram despatched from one part of London to another part,
sometimes takes eight hours, and the reason given is that the counter-clerk has a discretionary
power to retain telegrams until he has what he considers a sufficient supply for the messenger
to take out for delivery. This naturally causes much delay and consequent inconvenience.

G.P.O. Your complaint shall receive consideration.

G.P. You are too good. Next, the carelessness at Branch Offices is extremely irritating. For
instance, it is often the case that the words of telegrams have been altered and changed during
transmission. It is unnecessary to point out that such mistakes are liable to create annoyance,
not to say disaster.

G.P.O. Your complaint shall receive consideration.

G.P. Very many thanks. Then, at offices where females are engaged, rudeness is very common.
Would-be purchasers of postage-stamps are frequently kept waiting while the clerks chatter
to one another about matters entirely unconnected with the Department. And this habit is gaining
ground in those offices in which male labour is only employed, especially in the immediate
neighbourhood of St. Martin's-le-Grand itself. It is useless to call attention to this practice,
as a simple denial from an official implicated is accepted by the authorities as proof (almost)
positive of his or her innocence.

G.P.O. Your complaint shall receive consideration.

G.P. Again, thanks for your courtesy. But about these and many other grievances, the same stereotyped
answer has invariably been received.

G.P.O. Your complaint shall receive consideration.

G.P. Exactly! That is the very answer. And it is felt that no other outcome will result from
agitation. It seems utterly impossible to make the officials in charge realise their responsibility
to the taxpayers.

G.P.O. Your complaint shall receive consideration.

G.P. Of course; the same parrot-cry! And it may be for years, and it be for ever, before reform
is introduced. The probability is, that the present unsatisfactory condition of affairs may
exist at St. Martin's-le-Grand until the hour of doom.

G.P.O. Your complaint shall receive consideration.

       *       *       *       *       *

REFLECTION BY A GENERAL READER.

  I have been reading books wherein 'tis shown
    (In diction autocratic, sour, un-civil),
  That nothing can be absolutely known,
    Save that the Universe is wholly evil!
  And even this poor result is only plain
    To Genius--which, of course, is quite a rarity.
  I should have thought this would have given it pain,
    And moved it to both modesty and charity;
  But what surprises me (--ZOILUS, to mock sure,
    Will whip me with sham-epigrams would-be witty,--)
  Is that Agnostics seem so awfully pure,
    And Pessimists so destitute of pity.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANNALS OF A WATERING-PLACE

THAT HAS "SEEN ITS DAY."

The weather which, in Mr. DUNSTABLE's varied experience of five-and-twenty years, he assures
me, has never been so bad, having at length afforded some indications of "breaking" I make
the acquaintance, through Mrs. COBBLER, of Mr. WISTERWHISTLE, the Proprietor of the one Bath-chair
available for the invalid of Torsington-on-Sea, who, like myself, stands in need of the salubrious
air of that health-giving resort, but who is ordered by his medical adviser to secure it with
the least possible expenditure of physical strength.

