As O'Hagan walked the night deepened in throbs of gathering darkness. The sense of uneasiness
that had been with him ever since the priest in the cassock had appeared to him was not to
be easily thrown off. He set himself to argue down the uneasiness for which there was no more
foundation than a bad attack of "nerves" after the gloomy life in prison. He told himself,
till he believed it, that a man--just a human man--had been crossing the fields, and that being
smitten with religious fervour he had quoted the Scripture aloud, as he had often heard such
people do. He told himself it was mere fancy that was the cause of the belief that something
was shining around the man's head. As he argued these things away, and banished the face of
his visitor, a certain sort of reason usurped his place. But he did not feel comfortable, however,
he fell short of any form of fear.

It was O'Hagan's whole business to find desolate corners, where he could sleep without the
fear of interruption by the police; and hence being in a part of the country that he knew well,
he bethought himself suddenly of the great barn next to the mansion house at Tilney St. Lawrence.
It was always full of good hay, as large as a barrack and no thoroughfare passed within a quarter
of a mile of it. In such a place, and with the scent of the hay to lull him, O'Hagan threw
his tired body down, and soon lost all the cares of the world in complete repose.

All his life O'Hagan had been a habitual dreamer; the nights were few, that is to say, when
on awakening he did not find that some mental traffics and discoveries had been his, and at
times, the whole night through he would meet with most dazzling adventures. In prison his dreams
had been a great solace to him, and each night he had settled down to devote the dark hours
to the cultivation of joyous dreams. He was one of those men who went to sleep fair and square,
and looked for dreams. But as O'Hagan stretched in the hay, things were revealed to him that
were beyond all dreams, and of course he could not keep the strange priest out of the vision.
It opened with finding himself in front of the doors of an old church, where, he understood,
he was going to hide from someone who wanted to kill him. He knocked on the door and the man
who opened the door was the very priest he had seen in the afternoon. He asked him to step
in and instantly turned round and walked up the dimly lit aisle, and O'Hagan understood that
he had to follow. In silence they passed through a small arch in the chancel and mounted a
narrow oak staircase with many corners and tortuous turns and arrived at a small landing with
a studded door set in it. Quite inexplicably O'Hagan's heart sank at the sight of it. However,
the priest unlocked and opened it, and held it open for him to enter, and without coming in
himself, closed it. It was a small oak room with a stone floor, and a curious smell at once
attracted his notice. It was there--there, close to him--under his very nose--the strong, acrid
odour of decay--the nauseating smell of the grave. Looking about he saw the floor was paved
with grave stones. In one corner stood a fine seventeenth century lead coffin. A curious greyish
light shone from it. O'Hagan's conjecture had been right: there was something awful in the
room, and with the terror of nightmare seizing him swiftly by the throat and throttling him,
he awoke in a spasm of terror. O'Hagan was sitting bolt upright with the impression that someone
had flashed a lantern in his face, though the barn was absolutely pitch dark. "I've had a most
diabolical nightmare. It was the drink," he said to himself, and decided to go to sleep again.
But the excessive heat of the barn would let him rest no longer. The atmosphere seemed to be
hot and pungent, and he groped about and opened the door to let in some air. Almost at the
same moment someone cried "Fire!" and shapes of things began to define in a soft grey glimmering;--and
the gloom was broken up by a red and angry spurt of flame from a wing of the old manor house.
Again cries of "Fire!" came to his ears, and grew and multiplied. O'Hagan was fully awake in
an instant, and running at top speed towards the old mansion. When he reached it the whole
sky about was illuminated by a red and angry light. Almost at the moment of his arrival a tower
of smoke arose in front of the porch window, and with a tingling report, a pane fell outwards
at his feet. A crowd of cowed and white-faced country folk drew back when he rushed up. Then
he looked up at the porch window and saw what it was that made the people go. He saw a girl's
terrified face at the window. "The girl I lifted the bag from," he said aloud. "She'll be burnt
to death."

The heavy hall doors were surrounded by the inmates of the house who had escaped and O'Hagan
pushed through them, and sprang up the broad stairway mid choking volumes of smoke. When reached
the room above the porch the heat was fierce, and the roaring of the fire filled his ears,
and he had scarce carried the terrified girl out of the room when a side door fell in, and
a branch of flame shot brandishing through the aperture, and the head of the stairs became
lit up with a dreadful and fluctuating glare. He carried her swiftly down the stairs, he feared
every moment that they would crumple and fall in. But he fought his way grimly, and his jerky
swear words were lost in the roaring of the fire. Another moment and they were in the open.
Firelight and moonlight illuminating the country around with confused and violent lustre, and
banked against the stars and the sky they could see a glowing track of smoke.

"That was a near thing, Miss."

"I thought my end had come!" she said, the colour returning slowly to her face. "There would
have been no chance at all if you had not come up for me, as I was then almost suffocated.
It was a very brave act!" She did not thank him--she couldn't have spoken plain words of thanks
to save her life--but O'Hagan knew what she thought--"Don't say any more about it, Miss, I
am really a coward at heart."

"I'm sure I owe my life to you," she said earnestly. "I know there are some things for which
thanks are an insult, but you will not mind if I offer you a little token of gratitude?"

O'Hagan's hand was resting on a small silver cross in his pocket, and in another moment he
solemnly handed the girl the money and notes he had stolen. "Why, whatever is this?" asked
the girl, staring at O'Hagan in bewildered amazement.

"That's yours," he said by way of assistance.

"But I don't understand!" she cried, greatly puzzled.

"Well, Miss, I suppose it does require some elucidation," O'Hagan replied somewhat nervously.
"You see, it's only a return of stolen goods. You remember visiting a house in the big grey
motor car yesterday, Miss?"

"Yes."

"Well, I stole your bag from under the seat. I have given you back again all that I have left.
But I will take this little cross as a token." He dangled the little silver charm before her
face, and before she had time to take in the situation O'Hagan had disappeared.

       *       *       *       *       *

The long plains of Northern Europe stretched before the gaze of a regiment of British infantry--great
undulations of sodden earth left by the winter rains and thaws. There, in the piercing cold
that froze the feet, they waited the signal to advance. Stray bullets whined and pinged as
they struck the wire and sand bags on the top of the trenches; occasionally a man fell on his
face; and the ghastly change in the faces of the troops bore testimony to the effects. Hilaire
O'Hagan lay stretched upon his face, occasionally looking towards his officer. His heart beat
like the pulsing of a motor car. His throat felt dry, his cheeks were burning. At times a cold
shiver passed right through his frame. He fidgeted and lolled from one side, to the other.
It seemed to him that he had waited hours for the signal to get over the trenches. He tried
to strike a match for his pipe; his hand was trembling furiously. It occurred to him that after
having passed through the gory awfulness of six months' incessant fighting, he was beginning
to lose his nerve. He was no longer master of himself. He was afraid. Every man has the instinct
that prompts fear, for upon that instinct the whole foundation of life-preservation is founded.
But over and above this instinct, common to all of us, O'Hagan had imagination--the graphic,
vivid imagination that always lurks in Irish blood. Is not the entire history of the Celt a
rejection of the things of this world for the Shadow and the dream? Upon this basis of fear
and imagination O'Hagan started to build, building and building until he had created a grand
structure of blind terror which yielded a most exquisite torture to his mind.

A whistle sounded and a shudder traversed the men all down the trench. The officer called to
his men. He mounted the parapet and jumped over. There was a sound like the rushing of a river
as the regiment poured itself over the trench. The men advanced slowly and dazedly. Now any
acute observer would note that the men were bewildered and had little heart in the fight. Their
faces worked; and they struggled to walk on, but it seemed useless. The bullets were pattering
all around and taking heavy toll. Then a few yards in front a shrapnel shell kicked up the
mud. The German guns had found the range. Someone shouted out the fatal words "Lie down." The
regiment was soon hugging the earth, which was about the best thing they could have done. Great
showers of shrapnel burst over them, and the bullets struck down on them in a continuous shower.
Some men rose to their feet, and the shrapnel withered them. Suddenly one shell burst over
O'Hagan, blotting out all around him in smoke and dust, and brutally jerking his mind to fullest
tension. This shell fire was hell! With the crash imagination and fear began to work together
in his overworked brain--both at once in the queerest jumbling manner. In a few moments O'Hagan
was on his feet running away--racing as if not merely for his life, but his soul.

When O'Hagan's brain cooled and his sight cleared he found himself in the doorway of a little
wrecked church. The German shells had gashed and ripped the sides and roof, so that birds flew
in and out at will. Hundreds of sparrows chirped in the oak beams above. The shells had pitted,
starred and jerked up the blue flagstones in the porch on which O'Hagan stood. Parts of the
old church had been shelled nearly level; little twisted fragments of beautiful leaded windows
had been swept up in a pile outside with other wreckage. As O'Hagan walked up the aisle a feeling
came over him that he knew much of the old place. A quintessence and distillation of peace
and comradeship seemed to inhabit the soft gloam of its chancel. He found himself drifting
back to past days and seeing dimly in a thin white cloud faces that seemed familiar and yet
were unnameable. Then one face stood out distinctly, and O'Hagan watched it with breathless
wonder and fascination. He moved closer up to it; he would have given much not to have done
so, but he could not help himself--he looked closer, and it was--the face of the monk who had
appeared to him once before. When the cloud had cleared a little, the outline of the monk wearing
a hood and cowl became visible. Then was there a voice that he identified at once despite the
lapse of two years since he had last heard it. "I have been wanting to speak to you, brother,
for many hours, but something I cannot explain to mortal man has prevented me." The priest
instantly turned round and O'Hagan understood that he meant him to follow. His heart sank at
once, and he experienced a sense of dreadful oppression and foreboding, and with a sudden thrill,
partly of fear, and partly of curiosity he followed. They passed up the aisle and a perfectly
familiar staircase. Then he opened a door, and went in, and at the same moment, sheer unreasoning
terror seized him. He was afraid, but did not know why: he was simply afraid. Then like a sudden
recollection, when one remembers some trivial adventure of childhood, O'Hagan looked for the
old lead coffin. He cast his eyes about with a certain air of proprietorship, and compared
the room with the room of his dreams. Nothing had changed. And then, with a sudden start of
unexplained dread, he saw that the coffin was in the corner--the same leaden coffin that he
knew so well with the same curious greyish light coming from it. There was lettering on the lid.

"What's written there? What's there? There was something written on the coffin that his mind
reeled to entertain. Without quite knowing how he came to be there, O'Hagan found himself bending
over the coffin. He read the lettering, and it was:

    Hilaire O'Hagan ob. 1696 aetat 35.
        Parva domus, magna quies.

He sank down on his knees with a childish sob. Sometimes the old church seemed absolutely still,
and the only sound to be heard was the sighing of the night breeze below him in the pines,
but sometimes the place seemed full of muffled movements, and once O'Hagan could have sworn
that the large carved handle of the door turned. Even as he stood there he heard steps just
outside, and with a sudden horror, he saw the heavy door slowly open. A priest stood in the
open doorway with an inscrutable smile on his lips--the same clean-shaven man with a long aquiline
nose and singularly square chin, that he had seen before in his dreams.

"Brother," he said, in a moved voice. "You must go back and help your comrades. There is no
peace for you yet. Yes, brother, I know it is written that we shall rest from our labours--but
the beginning of our rest is not yet. We must go and help them in the firing line yonder----"

"No, no, holy man!" O'Hagan pleaded. "I have had enough.... There is hell over there."

"They are calling us, don't you hear them--the living and the dead----"

O'Hagan could see those great green flashes that burst in the sky so near to him. He could
almost hear the angry zipping of high explosive shrapnel close over his head. God! how he hated
it all!

"How hard it is, Father, to make these children understand!" came softly from the priest's lips.

O'Hagan's regiment had retired to their trenches in good order. They were some of those trenches
round about Ypres, and all the world has read how the Germans battered and delivered terrific
infantry attacks on this part of our line without cessation. A certain morning, about six o'clock,
the Huns decided to deliver a sharp attack, and there was "considerable artillery activity"
on the part of the German guns. Such activity was spoken of in the trenches as "raising the
lid off Hell." There was a lull after about an hour's rain of every kind of missile that man
has invented to batter his brother with. Then the Huns came on in earnest. Some reached the
trenches only to be met with a murderous fire: they fell in little huddled heaps in the blood
and the mud and the slime of the trenches. But the whole German race seemed to be flowing in
on the British, and they fairly got into the trenches, though they were twice driven out. Yard
by yard the battalion retired. The next moment an unearthly, fluorescent light shot and flooded
along the trenches. The troops gasped for a moment, and then started back. Standing on a traverse
in full view of Germans and Englishmen was a tall man with yellow hair, in a priest's cassock.
He was brandishing a sword that flashed like a tongue of flame, and crying "Turn back! turn
back! advance!"

Private Hilaire O'Hagan, the deserter, stood beside him holding a massive brass altar cross
above his head. From that moment O'Hagan behaved like one possessed. He hurled himself over
the traverse into the "green" of the German regiment, and started hacking and stabbing with
the pointed end of the cross. The Huns did not like the look of such a wild apparition and
refused to face him. Bit by bit they retired and O'Hagan took advantage of a moment to take
a green silk Irish flag, with a crownless harp, from his pocket, and attach it to the spike
of the cross. Then, roaring like a lion and brandishing his strange weapon, he fell on them
once more--and as they broke he saw the hooded priest driving them before him with his flaming
sword. A great joy seemed to burn up in his soul. Men who watched him said he ran amok. His
great voice rose high above the chattering machine guns in a beautiful Franciscan chant and
the voice of the priest joined in. What O'Hagan, bearing his mighty cross, must have looked
like in the eerie dawn mist, Heaven knows. But seeing such an apparition and hearing the strange
chant, it is possible the Huns thought the devil had joined in the fight. Then a man in the
rear trench pointed to the west, where a great image of the cross was shining against a blood
red sky, and a voice cried "Forward." It passed from man to man, and the regiment advanced,
howling, with O'Hagan. They drove the Germans before them like chaff before a fan, and fell
back, in triumph, to their lost trenches. They saw O'Hagan stagger a little and then turn round
to where the regiment boiled with joy in the trenches.

"You are back, my children," he shouted. "It is well, for my poor soul desires rest.... Aye,
rest indeed!"

A great peace settled on O'Hagan's face, as he slowly collapsed and lay very still.

Not long after this a country parson received a letter from a hare-brained member of his flock,
who for many years had been good enough to keep him in touch with his doings in far lands.
The old vicar had heard that the "young scoundrel," as he called him, had joined a volunteer
regiment, and was in the thick of the fighting around Ypres. The letter was written in pencil
on leaves torn from a note-book. The portion that will interest the reader of this story most
is here quoted.

"On Monday I came across an old friend (?) of ours--Hilaire O'Hagan. We had a brush with about
five thousand Huns, and we had under-estimated their strength. They rushed us in the dawning--a
living, greenish-grey wave rolled over our trenches, shooting and hacking at the heart of what
had once been a regiment of British Infantry. When the second wave lapped over, our men were
overborne but they were trying, by common instinct, to reach the second line trenches where
they could re-form. Then I saw O'Hagan who had dropped from God knows where, standing silhouetted
against the red of dawn on the front line trench. He was waving a brass cross and the bullets
were pattering around him and making a noise like rats skipping about an empty house. My God!
Pluck! I never thought O'Hagan had it in him. I tell you, he hurled himself down on the rifles
of a thousand Huns, and 'drove them hence' with his mighty brass cross. Our men were soon rallying
on the lost trench. The stragglers clutched at each other, and pointed to where the cross flashed
and reeled in the seething mass. Under cover of night our bearer party brought in O'Hagan stone
dead with over twenty bullet wounds in him. I know, vicar, when you read this, it will flash
into your mind that poor O'Hagan had been drinking again. You may banish any such thought ...
there was a different look in O'Hagan's eyes. One of our men, a stone-mason in times of peace,
roughly graved his name on the slab above him. As I walked back to the trenches I turned back
to have a last look at the grave. A priest was standing over it with hands outstretched to
bless...."