Text-books on Mechanics are of three sorts. Many teachers, school-committees, and parents wish
to add a taste of Mechanics to the smatterings of twenty or thirty different subjects which
constitute "liberal education," as understood in American high schools and colleges. For this
purpose it is of the first importance that the text-book should be brief, for the time to be
devoted to it is very short; secondly, it must divest the subject of every perplexity and difficulty,
that it may be readily understood by all young persons, though of small capacity and less application.
Such a text-book can contain nothing beyond the statement, without proof, of the more important
principles, illustrated by familiar examples, and simple explanations of the commonest phenomena
of motion, and of the machines and mechanical forces used in the arts. To a few it seems that
more light comes into a room through two or three broad windows, though they be all on one
side, than through fifty bull's-eyes, scattered on every wall. But the many prefer bull's-eyes,--fifty
narrow, distorted glimpses in as many directions, rather than a broad, clear view of the heavens
and the earth in one direction. Hence superficial, scanty text-books on science are the only
ones which are popular and salable.

The thorough study of Mechanics is, or should be, an essential part of the training of an architect,
an engineer, or a machinist; and there are several text-books, like Weisbach's Mechanics and
Engineering, intended for students preparing for any of these professions, which are complete
mathematical treatises upon the subject. Such text-books are invaluable; they become standard
works, and win for their authors a well-deserved reputation.

Professor Peck's book belongs to neither of the two classes of text-books indicated, but to
a class intermediate between the two. It is at once too good, too difficult a book for general,
popular use, and too incomplete for the purposes of the professional student. As it assumes
that the student is already acquainted with the elements of Algebra, Trigonometry, Analytic
Geometry, and the Calculus, the successful use of this text-book in the general classes of
any academy or college will be good evidence that the Mathematics are there taught more thoroughly
than is usual in this country. In few American colleges is the study of the Calculus required
of all students. In preparing a scientific text-book of this sort, originality is neither aimed
at nor required. A judicious selection of materials, correct translation from the excellent
French and German hand-books, with such changes in the notation as will better adapt it for
American use, and a clear, logical arrangement are the chief merits of such a treatise; and
these are merits which seldom gain much praise, though their absence would expose the author
to censure. The definitions of Professor Peck's book are exact and concise, every proposition
is rigidly demonstrated, and the illustrations and descriptions are brief, pointed, and intelligible.
Professor Peck says in the Preface, that the book was prepared "to supply a want felt by the
author when engaged in teaching Natural Philosophy to college classes"; but surely a teacher
who prepares a text-book for his own classes must need a double share of patience and zeal.
Every error which the book contains will be exposed, and the author will have ample opportunity
to repent of all the inaccuracies which may have crept into his work. Again, the instructor
who uses his own text-book encounters, besides the inevitable monotony of teaching the same
subject year after year, the additional weariness of finding in the pages of his text-book
no mind but his own, which he has read so often and with so little satisfaction.