GEMS GATHERED IN HASTE: A New Year's Gift for Sunday Schools

                     Dedicated,
                 As a labor of love,
               To four Sunday Schools,
  Each of which will know that it is one of the four
                 By the initials of
                   Their friend,
                                             T.B.F.

A BRIGHT THOUGHT SPEEDILY EXECUTED.

It is an excellent rule, no doubt, children, not to be in a hurry; and the proverbs, "Take
time by the forelock" and "The more haste the worse speed," are wise proverbs, worth keeping.
But occasions occur, once in a while, when working hastily is a great deal better than not
working at all, and may be working to some purpose too. I remember a case of this kind. In
a certain town, on the forenoon of July 3, 183-, when "Floral Processions" were novel affairs,
a company of ladies and gentlemen were assembled in a barn-chamber, finishing off and packing
up a lot of moss baskets, and arranging bunches of flowers to be sent to Boston, to the Warren-street
Chapel, by the mail coach at 3 o'clock, P.M. It was about 10 o'clock when one of the party,--suppose
we call him, for convenience just now, Mr. Perseverance,--who had been looking out of the window,
down upon a very little garden, suddenly turned round, and exclaimed that something might be
made prettier than any thing they had yet done. He told what it was. "It is impossible to do
it now. We must wait till next year," said his friends. "Nothing like trying: a bird in the
hand is worth two in the bush. No time like the present," replied Mr. Perseverance, a pertinacious
gentleman, who wanted to "strike when the iron was hot," and carry out his notion without delay.
Accordingly, he caught up two sticks, and nailed them together, so as to get the right shape.
Then he went down town,--the town being small, he had not far to go,--begged at the bookstore
a few "show-bills," containing the letters he needed for patterns; bought a sheet of gold paper
and half an ounce of gum-arabic, twice as much of both as he really wanted; people in a hurry
are not apt to calculate very nicely, or be very economical, you know. He carried his articles
back to the barn, and asked a lady to try to cut out a motto he had selected, and gum it on
a ribbon. "But where shall I get the ribbon?" said the lady. "Oh! find it somewhere," said
Mr. Perseverance; "and be sure and have all ready when I return." There was one spot in the
woods he remembered visiting months before with a boy in his neighborhood, on which grew another
material, indispensable to his project. He found the lad: they jumped into a chaise; rode two
or three miles to a grove; and, on searching a few moments, found what they were after,--a
plant green in mid-winter as well as in summer, and prized by everybody who loves Christmas;
gathered a bushel of it, more or less; and got home again before dinner. Meanwhile, the lady,
with others to help her, had been busy; and all were wide awake now, entering into the spirit
of the matter, thinking that the bright idea of Mr. Perseverance might possibly be accomplished
in season. A splendid bunch of pure white lilies, not quite open, was fastened to the longest
stick, the stems covered with wet paper or moss; then both pieces of wood were wound round
with thick and rich evergreen, leaving the glorious flowers standing out gracefully, and white
as the new-fallen snow. Next came the motto, in golden letters, on a broad white satin ribbon,
which Mrs. Perseverance had found: it was the belt of her bridal dress, carefully preserved
for several years, and now devoted to a good cause. The "emblem" was completed and packed just
in time for the coach. "And what was it?" An evergreen cross, with the lilies at the centre;
the ribbon hanging as a festoon from the arms, and bearing the words--

"Consider the Lilies!"

On reaching the city, it was much admired, and attracted a good many eyes in the show the next
day. I believe there has hardly been a "Floral Procession" since, without a similar device;
and among the banners used at the Warren-street Chapel, is a bright one of silk, which has
on it the cross and the lilies finely painted.

Now, let me tell you why I have sketched this incident as an introduction to the following
pages. On the 24th of December, 1850, a letter came to me from a friend, asking if I was preparing
a tract, as in former days, for a New Year's Gift, or if I could help him, his brother and
sister teachers, in selecting some fit and cheap book for all the two hundred children they
love to meet every Sunday. At first, I only thought of answering that I was sorry to say he
must look to somebody else for what was wanted. But I did not quite like to do this; and, presently
remembering the achievement of Mr. Perseverance, I said to myself, if he got that cross made
in a few hours, why cannot a tract be made in a few days? I consulted the printer, and he agreed
to do all he could. So we went to work immediately, and here are the "Gems Gathered in Haste."

       *       *       *       *       *

GEMS GATHERED IN HASTE.

*       *       *       *       *

I copy these verses for two reasons. They teach trust in God; and they were written by a gentleman
who, I am sure, remembers with pleasure when he was a scholar in the Sunday School; the request
of whose superintendents induced me to make this miniature book.

STORM AT SEA.

We were crowded in the cabin;
  Not a soul would dare to sleep:
It was midnight on the waters,
  And a storm was on the deep.

'Tis a fearful thing, in winter
  To be shattered in the blast,
And to hear the rattling trumpet
  Thunder, "Cut away the mast!"

So we shuddered there in silence;
  For the stoutest held his breath,
While the hungry sea was roaring,
  And the breakers talked with Death.

As thus we sat in darkness,
  Each one busy in his prayers,
"We are lost!" the captain shouted,
  As he staggered down the stairs.

But his little daughter whispered,
  As she took his icy hand,
"Isn't God upon the ocean
  Just the same as on the land?"

Then we kissed the little maiden,
  And we spoke in better cheer,
And we anchored safe in harbor
  When the morn was shining clear.

J.T. Fields.

       *       *       *       *       *

Here are two anecdotes: one for boys, the other for girls. When you read the first, remember
that all good deeds are not published, and cherish always the belief that many kind acts are
done which are never put in print to be read by everybody.

KINDNESS.

This word seldom begins an article in a newspaper, but "cruelty" or "murder" more often instead.
It is a pleasure to record an act of kindness; painful that we have not frequent opportunities.
Yet such an act made our heart glad, filled it with a new love for our kind, only a day or
two since. A school-girl, about ten years of age, was passing, with a smaller school-girl in
her arms, whom she carried with much difficulty; for the weather was sultry. Other children
were in company, with books in their hands. The whole party stopped to rest under the shade
of a tree. Just then, a gentleman observed the group. His attention was particularly attracted
by the child, still supported by the arm of her friend. "What's the matter, my little Miss?"
he inquired, in his kind, soft tone. "She's sick, sir," replied the friend. "And are you taking
her home?" "I'm trying, sir." "How far off does she live?" "Down by the Long Bridge." "A mile
or more! and you would carry her through the hot sun! no shade on the way either!" "I must
try, sir," answered the school-girl. "No, you must not," said the kind gentleman, "it would
kill both of you." A carriage passed at this moment. A word and a waving arm caused it to draw
up to the pavement. All the party entered it, and all right merry, except the sick one; but
even she looked up with a faint smile, fixing her large, tender eyes on the face of the stranger.
The driver had been instructed fully as to his destination, had been paid too, and now drove
away. "Poor little girl!" said the gentleman to himself, in a low voice. "Good bye, sir!" said
all the children, in a high tone.

--Washington News.

A BRAVE BOY.

An interesting little boy, who could not swim, whilst skating on our river on New Year's Day,
ran into a large air-hole. He kept himself for a time above water: the little boys, all gathered
round the opening, tried to hand him poles; but the ice continued breaking, and he was still
floating out of reach. Despair at last seized his heart, and was visible in every face around.
At this moment, when, exhausted, the poor little fellow was about to sink, a brave and generous-hearted
boy exclaimed, "I cannot stand it, boys!" He wheeled round, made a run, and dashed in at the
risk of his own life, and seized the little boy and swam to the edge of the ice with him: after
breaking his way to the more solid ice, he succeeded in handing him out to his companions,
who then assisted him out. In Rome, this act of heroism would have insured this brave youth
a civic crown. His name is Albert Hershbergar.

--Charleston (Va.) Republican.

*     *     *     *     *

I know a little girl who has committed this to memory. Let all little girls and boys who read
it do the same, and they will have music worth listening to in their own hearts.

LITTLE CHILDREN, LOVE ONE ANOTHER.

A little girl, with a happy look, Sat slowly reading a ponderous book, All bound with velvet
and edged with gold, And its weight was more than the child could hold; Yet dearly she loved
to ponder it o'er, And every day she prized it more; For it said, and she looked at her smiling
mother,-- It said, "Little children, love one another."

She thought it was beautiful in the book, And the lesson home to her heart she took; She walked
on her way with a trusting grace, And a dove-like look in her meek young face; Which said,
just as plain as words could say, "The Holy Bible I must obey: So, mamma, I'll be kind to my
darling brother; For 'little children must love each other.'

I'm sorry he's naughty, and will not play; But I'll love him still, for I think the way To
make him gentle and kind to me Will be better shown if I let him see I strive to do what I
think is right; And thus, when I kneel in prayer to-night, I will clasp my hands around my
brother, And say, 'Little children, love one another.'"

The little girl did as her Bible taught, And pleasant indeed was the change it wrought; For
the boy looked up in glad surprise, To meet the light of her loving eyes: His heart was full,--he
could not speak; But he pressed a kiss on his sister's cheek; And God looked down on that happy
mother Whose "little children loved each other."

--Bath Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

The two next pieces ought to go together. They resemble each other, not only in their subjects,
but in their beauty also. I hardly know which is the most interesting.

THE SISTER'S GRAVE.

At Smyrna, the burial-ground of the Americans, like that of the Moslems, is removed a short
distance from the town, is sprinkled with green trees, and is a favorite resort not only with
the bereaved, but with those whose feelings are not thus darkly overcast. I met there one morning
a little girl with a half-playful countenance, busy blue eye, and sunny locks, bearing in one
hand a small cup of china, and in the other a wreath of fresh flowers. Feeling a very natural
curiosity to know what she could do with these bright things, in a place that seemed to partake
so much of sadness, I watched her light motions. Reaching a retired grave, covered with a plain
marble slab, she emptied the seed, which it appeared the cup contained, into the slight cavities
which had been scooped out in the corners of the level tablet, and laid the wreath on its pure
face. "And why," I inquired, "my sweet child, do you put the seed in those little bowls there?"
"It is to bring the birds here," she replied with a half-wondering look: "they will light on
this tree," pointing to the cypress above, "when they have eaten the seed, and sing." "To whom
do they sing?" I asked: "to you or to each other?" "Oh! no," she quickly replied, "to my sister:
she sleeps here." "But your sister is dead?" "Oh! yes, sir; but she hears the birds sing."
"Well, if she does hear the birds sing, she cannot see that wreath of flowers." "But she knows
I put it there; I told her, before they took her away from our house, I would come and see
her every morning." "You must" I continued, "have loved that sister very much; but you will
never talk with her any more, never see her again." "Yes, sir," she replied, with a brightened
look, "I shall see her always in heaven." "But she has gone there already, I trust." "No, she
stops under this tree till they bring me here, and then we are going to heaven together." "But
she has gone already, my child: you will meet her there, I hope; but certainly she is gone,
and left you to come afterward." She cast to me a look of inquiring disappointment, and the
tears came to her eyes.

Oh! yes, my sweet child, be it so,
  That, near the cypress-tree,
Thy sister sees those eyes o'erflow,
  And fondly waits for thee;
That still she hears the young birds sing,
  And sees the chaplet wave,
Which every morn thy light hands bring,
  To dress her early grave;
And in a brighter, purer sphere,
  Beyond the sunless tomb,
Those virtues that have charmed us here
  In fadeless life shall bloom.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LITTLE FLOWER-GARDEN.

In yonder village burying-place,
  With briers and weeds o'ergrown,
I saw a child, with beauteous face,
  Sit musing all alone.

Without a shoe, without a hat,
  Beside a new-raised mound,
The little Willie pensive sat,
  As if to guard the ground.

I asked him why he lingered thus
  Within that gray old wall.
"Because," said he, "it is to us
  The dearest place of all."

"And what," said I, "to one so young,
  Can make the place so dear?"
"Our mother," said the lisping tongue,--
  They laid our mother here.

And since they made it mother's lot,
  We like to call it ours:
We took it for our garden-spot,
  And planted it with flowers.

We know 'twas here that she was laid;
  And yet they tell us, too,
She's now a happy angel made,
  To live where angels do.

Then she will watch us from above,
  And smile on us, to know
That here her little children love
  To make sweet flowerets grow.

My sister Anna's gone to take
  Her supper, and will come,
With quickest haste that she can make,
  To let me run for some.

We do not leave the spot alone,
  For fear the birds will spy
The places where the seeds were sown,
  And catch them up and fly.

We love to have them come and feed,
  And sing and flit about;
Yet not where we have dropped the seed,
  To find and pick it out.

But now the great round yellow sun
  Is going down the west;
And soon the birds will every one
  Be home, and in the nest.

Then we to rest shall go home too;
  And while we're fast asleep,
Amid the darkness and the dew,
  Perhaps the sprouts will peep.

And, when our plants have grown so high
  That leaves are on the stem,
We'll call the pretty birdies nigh,
  And scatter crumbs for them.

For mother loved their songs to hear,
  To watch them on the wing:
She'll love to know they still come near
  Her little ones, and sing."

"Heaven shield thee, precious child!" methought,
  "And sister Annie too!
And may your future days be fraught
  With blessings ever new!"

Hanna F. Gould

       *       *       *       *       *

This is a true story. A little girl received it in a letter from a very dear friend before
it was printed.

THE FEATHER BRUSH.

So, my dear little friend, you wish for an answer to your letter, and could not understand
that the little feather brush I sent you was a reply to your loving remembrance, just as if
I had written one with pen and ink. But you were a kind and loving child to transfer the gift
to little Julia, in your pity for her tears. I hope it soothed her troubled heart, and dried
her blue eyes; and you now shall have, instead, the story which those soft feathers were sent
to tell.

One evening last summer, Miss L---- came home from one of her rides, with a large basket closely
covered; and what do you think it contained? Why, a great anxious mother-hen, all tawny-colored
and white, with thirteen downy little chickens, who were frightened enough, and wondering where
in the wide world they were. We made a house for them in the green meadow, of a barrel turned
upside down; and they all crept under their mother's wing, and went to sleep. But, lo! a great
storm came in the night, such a pouring rain, such a blowing gale,--we really feared the tiny
things would be drowned! But a kind neighbor put on his big coat, and went to their rescue.
He put them all together in the basket again, and brought it into the kitchen, where they got
thoroughly warm and dry; after which, they were taken out to the barn, where they lived a few
days very comfortably. Then one of them disappeared, we never knew where; and another lamed
herself in some way, and, notwithstanding all our care, she died. But the rest grew up, a healthy
and obedient little family, always ready to eat, and so quick to run with their tiny feet,
when any one appeared at the door, that it was very funny to see them.

Another day, Miss L---- brought home two large chickens; one of them with a long neck, and
a beautiful black crest upon her head, and a dress of black feathers softer than velvet. Her
we named Donna: sometimes we call her Bella Donna. The other was dressed in white feathers,
some of them tipped with glossy black and brown, but many of them pure white. She was named
Luca. They were shut together for a few days, until they began to feel at home; then they were
set free to scratch in the barn-yard, and get acquainted with the neighbors' fowls, when we
began to see how different they were in character as well as dress. Donna holds her head very
high, and pays no attention to any other hens; runs away from us, when we invite her to dinner,
no matter how nice it is; and never will get acquainted, all we can do. But Luca we love as
we should a gentle, timid little girl. Sometimes, when we open the door, there she stands patiently
waiting, and looks up at us with her bright eye so pleasantly, that we must stop, if ever so
busy, and feed her. Occasionally we hear a gentle sound on the door-step, which we all know;
then some one is sure to exclaim, "There's Luca," and run to get her something nice to eat.
The little chickens, with Mater their mother, all come rushing, tapping, perching, chirping
at the door, and tease and tap-tap and "yip-p yip-p" until we quite weary of them. If the door
stands open, they fly up the steps, walk in, look round the room, and pick up any thing they
can find, until we send them away. The moment their tin pan appears, they are all in a flying
huddle, tumble over each other, fly to the pan, to our shoulders, or anywhere, to get the first
mouthful. Old Mater is ravenous and impolite as the rest, except that she always waits for
her children to get a few mouthfuls first; but not another hen or chicken must come near them.
Luca, patient gentle Luca, often stands and waits modestly behind; and, if she gets nothing,
makes a little mournful sound,--that is all.

Some flocks of russet, black and brown hens, crowers, and chickens, who live close by, are
a great annoyance to Mater, and to all of us. They come shooting into the yard like little
steam-engines, and snatch all they can of the dinner to which they were not invited; and, if
driven away a dozen times, rush back, the first chance, to get and devour all they can. Why,
they have been into the house, and eaten a pie which was set to cool, pecked at the apples,
Pony's oats, and any thing they could find to eat! What would you have said then? Even Mater's
children never did such impertinent things, hungry as they always are. One white chicken about
their size, a naughty-looking little thing, with her head always down, left her own mother,
and would come dashing in as if she belonged among them; but Mater and her little ones always
found her out, and sent her away.

One day we thought we would name the eleven chickens, as Mater could not name them herself;
and, since then, we know them each and all, and just how they behave. Annie and Mary are two
sober-looking little creatures, in quakerish feathers of drab and grey. Nat is a white crower,
with beautiful soft feathers, and a long graceful black tail. Louise has a shaded dress of
grey and white, and is almost as modest and gentle as Luca. Hannah is a little bantam, with
tufted head and large eyes, the smallest but the sprightliest of the family: she always tumbles
in amongst the rest, and gets the first taste of every thing; and her mother allows her to
do it. One of them, named Lise, a white one, came in the other morning, just as we had finished
breakfast; and, seeing many things spread out to eat, she flew up to the back of a chair, and,
perching herself there, surveyed the whole table, and was very unwilling to get down. At length,
getting a little alarmed at our efforts to teach her better, she pounced directly down amidst
the cups and dishes, putting her foot into a saucer of tea, and making a great commotion in
her fright. Two, named George and John, are trying to learn to crow. Little Mary hears the
large hens cackle, and you would laugh loud to hear her try to imitate them. They are having
warm, new dresses made for them; so they let the summer ones blow about in the breeze for any
little girls who want them, particularly kind and neat and useful little maidens, who love
to dust their mother's books, picture frames, and flower baskets.

If I can send you another brush, my little friend, you must imagine neat little Louise, Annie
and Mary, gentle Luca and handsome Donna, sending their best love and kind wishes, and inviting
you to come some summer's day, to see them eat their dinner, and run about with them in the
green meadows. So, my darling, good bye. Perhaps, before you come to see us, Luca may be a
little mother, with a brood of pretty downy children, following all around her.

Kisses and love from your friend, F. E. H.

(From the "Child's Friend.")

       *       *       *       *       *

If any child wishes to know how to be neat and orderly, here, to teach them, is the example of

LITTLE PINK.

On a swinging little shelf
  Were some pretty little books;
  And I reckoned from their looks,
That the darling little elf,
    Whose they were,
Was the careful, tidy girl,
With her auburn hair a-curl.

In a little chest of drawers,
  Every thing was nice and prim,
  And was always kept so trim,
That her childish little stores,
    Books or toys,
In good order could be found,--
Never careless thrown around.

And she laid her bonnet by,
  When she hastened home from school;
  For it was her constant rule,--
And she was resolved to try,
    School or home,
How to prove the saying true,--
"Order in all things you do."

When she put away her shawl,
  Nicely laying by her book,
  She had only once to look
In its place to find her doll
    Snugly there:
She could shut her smiling eyes,
Sure to find her pretty prize.

See her books,--how clean they are!
  Corners not turned down, I know!
  There's a marker, made to show
In her lessons just how far.
    Dog-eared books
Are a certain sign to me
That the girl must careless be.

She's as tidy as a pink!
  Clean and neat, and gentle too!
  If you take her actions through,
Just the same, I know, you'll think.
    School or home,
    Tasks or play,
    Books or toys,
    Every way,
Order keeps this loving girl,
With her auburn hair a-curl.

Friend of Youth.

       *       *       *       *       *

What boy or girl in the Sunday School has not heard of Grace Darling? Are not these two women,
whose noble deeds are told below, worthy to be called her sister-spirits?

THE HEROINE OF PILLAU.

A most interesting story is told, in a late German paper, of a remarkable woman in Pillau,
Prussia, whose heroism of character certainly rises into the gigantic, or whose intrepidity,
to say the least, appears to be unprecedented. This woman, by a truly generous daring, is the
widow of a seaman, with whom, for upwards of twenty years, she made long voyages; and, since
his death, she has devoted her life, for his memory's sake, to the noble and perilous task
of carrying aid to the drowning. Her name is Katherine Klenfoldt. Whenever a storm arises,
whether by day or night, she embarks in her boat, and quits the harbor in search of ship-wrecks.
At the age of forty-seven, she has already rescued upwards of three hundred individuals from
certain death. The population of Pillau venerate her as something holy, and the seamen look
upon her as their guardian-angel. All heads are uncovered as she passes along the street. The
Prussian and several other governments have sent her their medals of civil merit: the municipality
of Pillau has conferred on her the freedom of her town. She possesses an athletic figure and
great strength, seeming to be furnished by nature in view of a capacity to go through wild
scenes and high deeds. Her physiognomy is somewhat masculine, with the expression softened
by a look of gentleness and goodness.

A GENUINE PHILANTHROPIST.

The island of Rona is a small and very rocky spot of land, lying between the isle of Skye and
the main land of Applecross, and is well known to mariners for the rugged and dangerous nature
of the coast. There is a famous place of refuge at the north-western extremity, called the
"Muckle Harbor," of very difficult access, however; which, strange to say, is easier to be
entered at night than during the day. At the extremity of this hyperborean solitude is the
residence of a poor widow, whose lonely cottage is called the "light-house," from the fact
that she uniformly keeps a lamp burning in her little window at night. By keeping this light,
and the entrance to the harbor open, a small vessel may enter with the greatest safety. During
the silent watches of the night, the widow may be seen, like "Norma of the Fitful Head," trimming
her little lamp with oil, being fearful that some misguided and frail bark may perish through
her neglect; and for this she receives no manner of remuneration--it is pure, unmingled philanthropy.
The poor woman's kindness does not rest even there; for she is unhappy till the benumbed and
shivering mariner comes ashore to share her little board, and recruit himself at her cheerful
and glowing fire, and she can seldom be prevailed upon to take any reward. She has saved more
lives than Davy's belt, and thousands of pounds to the under-writers. This poor creature, in
her younger days, witnessed her husband struggling with the waves, and swallowed up by the
remorseless billow, "in sight of home and friends who thronged to save." This circumstance
seems to have prompted her present devoted and solitary life, in which her only enjoyment is
in doing good.

*       *       *       *       *

Here is a pretty piece. It was written, thirty-four years ago, by a class-mate and friend;
but it sounds "as good as new." If he should happen to see it here, he will, I know, excuse
the alteration of two lines, which, though quite proper for college-boys studying Latin and
Greek, are not quite proper for children in a Christian Sunday School.

THE RAIN-DROP AND THE POET.

Come, tell me, little noisy friend,
  That knockest at my pane,
Whence is thy being? Where dost end,
  Thou little drop of rain?

  I come from the deep,
  Where the dark waves sleep,
And their beauty ever the sea-pearls keep;
  I go to the brow
  Of the mountain-snow,
And trickle again to the depths below.

But, wanderer, how didst win thy way
  From caverns of the sea?
Did not thy sisters say thee nay,
  Sweet harbinger of glee?

  With his far-darting flame,
  The Day-king came,
And bore me away in a cloudy frame;
  And I sailed in the air,
  Till the zephyrs bare
Me hither to hear thy minstrel-prayer.

And why dost change that tiny form,
  Thou sweetest ocean-child?
Why art the snow in winter-storm,
  The rain in summer mild?

  The breath from above
  Of Him who is Love,
In the snow and the rain-storm bids me to rove,
  Lest the young-budding earth
  Be destroyed in the birth,
And Famine insult over Plenty and Mirth.

 And wilt thou, little one, bestow
  The minstrel's small request?
Wilt come when cares of earth below
  Press on his aching breast?

  'Tis the minstrel's own
  To kneel at the throne
Of Him who reigns in the heavens alone;--
  The grief of the soul
  'Tis His to control,
Who bids in the azure the planets roll.

His couch when balmy slumber flies,
  In watches of the night,
Wilt, soother, come, and close his eyes,
  And make his sorrows light?

  I cannot come
  From my sea-deep home,
Whene'er I list on the earth to roam:
  Who rules in the form
  Of the ocean-storm
His will must the rain-drop, too, perform.

 Thy gentle prattle at the pane
  Makes timorous Fancy smile:
 Then let me hear that tender strain;
  Blithe charmer, stay a while.

  No: I cannot delay,
  But must quickly away
Where the rills in the valley my coming stay;
  I haste to the dell
  Where the wild-flowers dwell,
Then "Peace to thee, minstrel," is the rain-drop's farewell.

       *       *       *       *       *

The poetry and prose you have been reading, children, thus far was most of it selected, when
I was invited to a beautiful celebration, with some account of which you will be glad, I am
sure, to have me close my collection. It was on

CHRISTMAS EVENING AT THE PITTS-STREET CHAPEL,

A very neat chapel, where Rev. Mr. Winkley, one of the Ministers at Large, preaches. On this
occasion a platform was built up in front of the pulpit: most of the centre pews were filled
with happy-looking boys and girls, and the rest of the room, even to the aisles, quite crowded
with grown-up men and women. After the singing of two hymns by the children, and a prayer,
a gentleman made a short address, telling how much better was the religion of the Jews than
the religion of the Heathen. Then was spoken in a very pleasant way the following

DIALOGUE--PART I.

RACHEL, a Jewess.--REBECCA, Sister of Rachel.--EUDORA, a Heathen.--JEZEBEL, a Messenger.--RUTH,
friend of Rachel and Rebecca.

Eudora. Rachel!

Rachel. Eudora! welcome, thrice welcome, to Jerusalem.

Eudora. Right glad am I, Rachel, to be once more by your side. The sun has not shone so brightly,
nor the birds sung so sweetly, since you bade me farewell at my father's; and every moment
has increased my desire to be with you again.

Rachel. You have well done that you have come to me. And though I was not conscious of robbing
your lovely home of its brightness, yet sure I am the remembrance of your true kindness and
tender friendship has been to me ever since an increase of sunshine and song; and, now that
you have come to me, the very temple itself shall look more beautiful, and the songs of David
catch a new inspiration.

Eudora. Still faithful, I see, to your temple and Jehovah; and so may it ever be! But I trust
you have more respect for the gods I worship, and will not, as of yore, pronounce them false.

Rachel. Sorry should I be to pain a true heart, and, most of all, that of my much-loved guest;
but, still I must say, the gods that you worship are no gods. There is but one God, and that
is Jehovah.

Eudora. As I came near Jerusalem, I remembered your earnest words on that subject,--as what
that you ever uttered have I forgotten? I remembered, too, how nearly out of patience I often
felt with you for claiming your god to be the only God; and, so as I drew near, I felt a desire
to know him better. It being a time of worship in the temple, I went with a Jewish friend of
mine up the hill, and entered the outer court, called, I believe, the Court of the Gentiles.
And, verily, I saw no god there. Perchance he was in the temple itself.

Rachel. Yes, in the holy of holies: in the farther apartment of that building which you saw
rising amid all the courts, he dwells.

Eudora. I imagined that was his abode. But wherein differs your worship from ours? You have
a temple; so have we. You have priests clothed in sacred robes; so have we. You have altars
and sacrifices; so have we. You have an oracle and prophets; so have we. You go up to the dwelling-place
of your God to worship and offer sacrifices; so do we. Wherein, then, do we differ?

Rachel. If in nothing else, Eudora, yet in this: we have but one temple and one God for our
nation; you have many. And again, you worship the work of men's hands,--images of wood and
stone, that can neither see nor feel.

Rebecca (coming forward--Jezebel approaches). My heart is moved within me; and though my sister,
in her joy of seeing her friend, has left me standing apart, yet your voice has drawn me to you.

Eudora. Surely the sister of my friend shall be my sister: would that I could say her God shall
be my God!

Rebecca. Even so may it be!

Eudora. And my gods hers!

Rebecca. But that is impossible.

Eudora. Why? Because, as she says, we have images for gods! But this is not so. Is Jupiter
the thunderer confined to an image? or is Juno or any other deity? Have we not many images
of all the gods in many places, and are they not in them all? Do not our armies go forth to
war, and is not Jupiter with them and Mars also? These images are but reminders of the gods,
as my father's statue is of him.

Rebecca. 'Tis true these many images and temples may not hold your gods more than our synagogues
hold Jehovah; but as great an error is yours. You worship what has no existence; your gods
are creatures of fancy. Your gods, too, are of various character, and not always agreed. This
goodly world is not the patch-work of many and different gods, but of one designing mind,--one
executing power; and that one, Jehovah.

Eudora. Your sister, in many hours of precious intercourse, has almost persuaded me to believe
in but one God; but why, if there be but one, may not that one be our Jupiter, known as the
father of gods and men, as well as your Jehovah?

Jezebel (To Eudora). Because he is not. (To Rachel and Rebecca). Why do you talk with that
stupid Heathen? You might as well convince a Samaritan dog. I have waited here with a message
from David since the fifth hour, and all to be contaminated with idolatrous breath.

Rachel.

Jezebel. Well, prate not to me, daughter of Eliab; for I need it not. Tell me if you have fulfilled
the mission given you this day, and what answer I shall make.

Rachel. I have. Ye only need say, "It is well." [Jezebel departs impatiently.] (To Eudora.)
Be not moved by our neighbor's unkind manners. Did she love Jehovah, she would not thus do.

Eudora. And is Jehovah careful about these things?

Rachel. Yes: every act is noticed by him; every heart is his desire; and herein he differs
from all imaginary gods. Jupiter sits apart, and simply rules the nations. Jehovah loves the
children he has created, and is careful about their least concerns. He desires their love in
return. Your gods demand conduct and sacrifices injurious and degrading. Jehovah's every word
is for his people's prosperity.

Eudora. And you are like your god. Your patient doing of right in the past comes to me; and
this, with your kindness to the unfeeling and abusive Jezebel, has convinced me more, if possible,
than your arguments. Surely I see that it was such a god that I desired to worship in Jupiter.
If this be found alone in your god, then does my heart move me to say, Jehovah, He is God,
and there is none else. Oh! may I not be mistaken!

Rachel. Trust in Jehovah, and thou shalt not err.

Rebecca. Rejoice in Jehovah, and thou shalt be glad for ever.

Ruth (calling). Rachel!

Rachel. I come. (To Eudora.) Let us hasten; for we have long tarried, and many wait to welcome
you. (Singing heard.) Hark! they are singing one of the songs of David: let us go join them.

At the close of the dialogue, the cxxxvi. Psalm was chanted; and then another gentleman described
the erroneous notions which the Jews had of the expected Messiah. His remarks were succeeded by

DIALOGUE.--PART II.

ANNA, MARTHA, SALOME, MARY, of Jerusalem. MIRIAM, LEAH, of Bethlehem.

Mary (coming with Salome to Martha). Martha, I have been seeking, and am glad that I have found
you; but why do you weep?

Martha. We may do nothing else now, and the meeting with others seems to be the signal for
fresh floods of tears.

Salome. I may not ask the cause of your grief; for my own soul replies it is the common grief,--our
nation's bondage.

Martha. Yes, we are slaves; that only thought haunts me; the chosen people of Jehovah in subjection
to the idolatrous Roman.

Salome. Where now is the might of David? where the glory of Solomon? Surely Miriam's song may
be turned upon ourselves; for the enemy "hath triumphed gloriously," and we are laid in the dust.

Mary. Let us not, however, despond too much. Jehovah will not always chide. The Roman sway
shall have an end.

Martha. I know that Messiah cometh, and he will restore all things; but when?

Salome. Yes, when? Long have we waited, and bitter has been our bondage; and even our own Herod
has been more cruel than our foes.

Mary. Nevertheless, let us hope. In the fulness of time the promised one will come. (Miriam
and Leah approach.) But, see! two more friends join us.

Martha. Rather say, two more slaves.

Salome. Yes; two more to weep with us.

Miriam. Not so, not so, unless we weep for joy. The cloud that has so long hung over us in
blackness is beginning to break. We have experienced more of gladness this day than has been
ours since the last report that the Messiah had come was proved false.

Leah. Yes, we have heard strange things since the morning service; joyful news have we for you.

Martha. Another false prophet, no doubt, claiming to be Israel's deliverer, and proving a thousand
times her foe.

Salome. Let us not cheat ourselves with any more fanatical dreams.

Miriam. No dream this; no fanatic's voice; no prophet's word, but a message direct from Heaven.

Martha. A message from Heaven!

Leah. 'Tis even so. Listen while I tell you. At Bethlehem, last night, the shepherds were watching
their flocks as usual; at midnight they were startled by the sudden appearance of an angel
of the Lord, and the shining round about them of an exceeding bright light; and the angel spoke
to them. "Fear not," said he, "for, behold!

Martha. Can this be true?

Salome. But how shall he be known?

Anna. In Bethlehem, did you say? But there is no palace in Bethlehem, where a prince should
be born.

Leah. Wait a little: I have not told you all. And with this song they departed.

Anna. This is indeed wonderful!

Salome. But have the shepherds seen the babe?

Martha. Oh! tell us that. Have they seen the babe? and are all things as they have declared?

Miriam. Yes. We met them on their return. They were, with full hearts, praising God for the
new hope of a glorious deliverance given to the nation.

Leah. All hearts warmed as they spoke; and, catching their gladness, we come to you.

Mary. Then shall we indeed hope! O my people! my people Israel! shall we see you again in your
former glory?

Martha. Surely, this news inspires my own soul. Once more shall the Roman be driven forth by
the Lord of hosts; once more "shall Jehovah triumph, and his people be free."

Salome. Yes; and Messiah shall bring all nations into subjection to us, as we are now to the
Romans.

Anna. Well may we wait a little longer, and bear the yoke with patience.

Mary. I knew the Lord would not always chide, nor keep his anger for ever. Now may we rejoice
and glory in the God of our salvation.

Martha. Once more shall the name of a Jew be somewhat more than a byword. When our King shall
ride forth in his majesty, conquering and to conquer, then shall the Jews be terrible to their
enemies, honored by their friends, and known everywhere as the people of the whole earth whom
the Lord delighteth to honor.

Leah. Let us tarry no longer here, feasting on these good things alone; but away; and, in every
closet and from every house-top, let us spread the good news.

Mary. Let us first, however, sing to Jehovah a song of triumph, and then to our work.

Miriam. Even so let it be.

Then arose, beautifully sung, this

JEWISH SONG.

Welcome day, oh, welcome day! a Saviour is born!
Welcome day, oh, welcome day! no longer we mourn.
    Our nation, exulting
    O'er foes long insulting,
Sings aloud, now sings aloud,--Oh, welcome this day!

Lift your voice, oh, lift your voice! Jehovah is God!
Lift your voice, oh, lift your voice! He has lifted the rod.
    With goodness unceasing,
    From bondage releasing,
We his people will sing,--Jehovah, is God!

Sound it forth, oh, sound it forth! Messias hath come!
Sound it forth, oh, sound it forth! through every sad home.
  With power avenging,
  Our great wrongs revenging,
He has come, he has come, Messias hath come!

Joy is ours, oh, joy is ours! his sword shall defend!
Joy is ours, oh, joy is ours! our foes shall now bend.
  While at their yoke spurning,
  Their insults returning,
Joy is ours,--we are free,--his sword shall defend!

Mrs. S.H. Winkley.

Another address from a friend explained the true idea of Christ as a Saviour, to introduce

DIALOGUE--PART III.

EUDORA, Heathen.--ZACHARIAH, JOHN, RACHEL, REBECCA, SALOME, MARY, and JEZEBEL, Jews.

Eudora. Well, Rachel, I owe you more than tongue can tell. The more I study Moses and the prophets,
the more I believe in and love Jehovah; and the more surprised am I, that, for a moment, I
hesitated in giving up the false gods of my childhood.

Rachel. To Jehovah be your thanks, my friend, my sister; for never by human reasoning should
we have been different from you. In love Jehovah revealed himself to us; and what we have so
fully learned from him, we have given to you.

Eudora. But what think you of the prophet in the wilderness,--John I think they call him?

Rachel. He is dead. He was a bold man, and a good one, I think; but the best should be careful
how they rebuke kings. John rebuked Herod, and lost his head in consequence thereof.

Eudora. Well, we must all die.

Rachel. Not so says he whom John declared to be greater than himself,--Jesus of Nazareth.

Zachariah. If he be what many claim him, he speaks with more authority on that point than the
Pharisees.

Eudora. And what do people say he is?

Zachariah. The Messiah.

Eudora. Israel's Deliverer?

Zachariah. Yes.

Eudora. Well, what says he?

John. That they who believe in him shall never die.

Eudora. Surely, no one believeth that. Or does he jest, by saying what he knows they cannot
receive?

Rachel. You have never seen him, or you would not ask that question. No one hearing him can
doubt, that he, like John, would seal his words with his blood.

John. You have seen him: is he like John?

Rachel. In boldness very like him. In other respects they differ. John was clothed like the
prophets; Jesus wears the common garb. John dwelt in the wilderness, and on the banks of the
Jordan; but Jesus frequents the cities and villages. John was stern in manner, and abstemious
in food; Jesus is neither. He is gentle and social; often seen at the feasts of the publicans,
and associating with the multitudes.

Eudora. But does he, like the former kings of Israel, combine military ardor with his religious
enthusiasm?

Rachel. He seems, with all his boundless benevolence, formed to command; but never has he aimed
to form an army, though the people would at one time have declared him king. Salome promised
to meet us here at this time. I wish she were present. She can tell you more of him than can I.

Eudora. And here she is.

John. Welcome to our circle! and doubly so now; for we would hear of you concerning this Jesus,
who we hoped was to be our deliverer from bondage.

Salome. Right glad am I to be here, and more so to speak of him; for he hath come indeed to
deliver us from bondage,--a worse, however, than Roman bondage.

John. Are we to have a harder taskmaster than the Romans, before we are delivered?

Salome. No harder master than we now have. The Roman is not our only or worst bondage.

Rebecca. What talk you of so earnestly?

Salome. Jesus of Nazareth.

Rebecca. He has come, it is said, to set up a new kingdom.

Salome. Rather to enlarge the kingdom already flourishing in heaven.

Rebecca. Call it what you may, he is slow in gathering his armies.

Salome. He needs no army for his conquests, but an army of loving hearts and pure spirits.

Rebecca. Then the nation's hope is again blasted, and we are to remain yet longer subjects
of a foreign king.

Salome. Not so. This is the true Messiah: he who joins his kingdom shall be free indeed.

Rebecca. But what freedom can there be greater than from Roman bondage?

Eudora. Unless it be a deliverance, such as mine, from idolatry and superstition. Methinks
there is no liberty to be compared with that; and, having that, slavery loses its power.

Jezebel. Or deliverance, such as mine, from an unholy temper. Surely, Eudora, mine is the greater
deliverance; for what is truth without goodness? You were delivered from error; I from sin.
Oh! since I have been from place to place with the Son of God, and listened to his gracious
words, I have forgotten to be angry; and, I trust, my growing love for his Father and mine
will cleanse me from all sin!

Mary. I, too, have felt his power, and am seeking to join his kingdom. I first took him for
a second David, who should glorify his people; then, when no army gathered around him, for
a prophet sent to reform the nation. But now I believe him to be greater than either,--even
the Son of God, and begin to think that he purposes to bless, not Jews alone, but Gentiles;
not Palestine, but the world.

Rebecca. Why should we think him greater than the prophets? why, the Son of Jehovah? Are the
reports about his working miracles to be received as true?

Salome. Certainly; for I have witnessed them. I have, at his mere word or touch, seen the leper
cleansed; the blind receive sight; the lame walk; and, that last wonderful work, Lazarus of
Bethany raised from the dead.

Rebecca. And what think you of all this?

Salome. Just what one of our rulers declared to him the other night, "No man can do these miracles
and not come from God, and have God with him." When the Pharisees or the Scribes tell me I
am immortal, I question; but when he, thus aided by Jehovah, asserts the truth, it is enough.

Rebecca (to Mary). And did this move you also?

Mary. How could I doubt any doctrine of his, after witnessing these works?

Jezebel. But this is not all. He moved our hearts to love, as well as our minds to believe.
With all my ill temper in the past, I have ever taken an interest in children. Judge ye, then,
of the effect produced upon me, the first time I saw him, by this circumstance. I was walking
along, filled with my usual impatience, when I suddenly saw Jesus at a distance, surrounded
by a crowd, many of whom were Scribes and Pharisees. He had pleased the multitude, and excited
even the admiration of his enemies; when, as I came nigh, I saw several persons endeavoring
to get nearer to him with their children. They were rebuked even by his disciples; but Jesus,
seeing the act, asked for the children, took them in his arms, and blessed them. From that
moment have I loved and followed him.

Mary. Then came his kind, yet firm rebuke of sin; his description of those who were prepared
to join his kingdom; his promise to receive the worst who would become like himself; his assurance
that all who continued faithful to the end of this life should in the next be joined to his
Father's family; and, above all, the representation of Jehovah as our Father, who would give
us eternal joy. Oh! what change have his glorious words wrought in us!

Rebecca. Why do you say "changed us"? Jezebel needed to be changed, but not you.

Mary. Such change as he demanded I needed. Oh! how much! 'Tis true, in form I have served the
God of my fathers. I have endeavored to keep unbroken the law; but that was not sufficient.
To be like him, the heart must burn with that love to his Father, that your delight will be
even to be crucified in his service.

Salome. Yes; as Mary says, he demands that love which not only pours itself forth to friends,
but to strangers, and with diligence seeks the happiness even of our bitterest foes.

Zachariah. O that I might have such a spirit, and be one of such a society!

Mary. And so you may.

John. And I!

Rebecca. And I!

Salome. Yes; all, all who are weary of sin, and heavy laden with cares,--all may come, and
none will be cast forth.

John. This is freedom indeed.

Rachel. And greatness indeed.

Rebecca. Such a people must be the chosen of the Lord.

Eudora. No longer Jew and Gentile, but one in Jesus.

Salome. Is not this a Saviour for Israel? Oh! my heart burns within me for joy; for all people
shall partake of this salvation.

Rachel.

Mary. The angel's song; and why should not we in a song praise God that he hath visited and
redeemed his people?

Rebecca. And may God make us true to this Saviour to the last!

Next came an appropriate hymn; after which the pastor reviewed and explained the meaning of
the different exercises of the evening, and what they were intended to teach about the origin
and truth and blessedness of Christianity. A prayer was offered, and the services closed with
that noble hymn, beginning "All hail the power of Jesus' name," sung to that noble old tune,
"Coronation."

I thought the Dialogues would please you, and asked leave to print them here.

If there is any thing in the Dialogues, or in any of the pieces in this little book, you cannot
understand, you must ask for an explanation from your parents or teachers, who will be glad
to answer your questions. And now, if these "GEMS" give you as much pleasure as the "Christmas
Evening at the Pitts-street Chapel" gave those who were present, I think, though "gathered
in haste," you will say they are worth keeping, and looking at often.

       *       *       *       *       *

