The Bishops and Church of England are fast destroying their own craft, by aiding the sly dissenters
in spreading the bible through every family in Britain, and in America. In reading this blessed
book, the people will see how Christianity has been corrupted. They will compare the archbishops
and dignified clergy of the present degenerate days, with the plainness of our Saviour, and
with the simplicity of the holy fishermen, and other of his disciples. Before this book the
factitious institutions and gorgeous establishments of the modern priesthood will fade and
die, like Jonah's gourd. The English Episcopacy never has, nor ever will, take deep root in
the United States. It can never flourish in the American soil. Even the Roman Catholic religion
is here a humble and rational thing. Its ministers are highly respected, because their lives
adorn their doctrines; and the parochial care of their flock, who are principally Irish, is
seen and commended. It is observed throughout our sea ports, that the seafaring people are
generous supporters of their ministers; but these same people can never be made to pay tythes,
or to hear and support a minister whom they had not directly or remotely chosen. This is the
predominant sentiment of all the Anglo-Americans.

The daily allowance of the British government to our prisoners, is one pound of bread, one
pound of beef, and one gill of peas. Over and above this we received from the American agent
a sufficiency of coffee, sugar, potatoes, and tobacco. The first may be called the bare necessaries
of life, but the latter contribute much to its comfortable enjoyment. Whether the British government
ought not to have found the whole, I am not prepared to determine; but certainly, before this
addition from our own agent, our men complained bitterly: and it is a fact, that the agent
here more than once detained tobacco, sent as a present to us from our agent at Boston.

In justice to Mr. Miller, the British agent, I ought to record that he paid great attention
to the cleanliness of the prison, and to the clothes of the men; and I must, at the same time,
say that some of our men were very dirty, lazy fellows, that required constantly spurring up
to keep them from being offensive. This indolent and careless disposition was observed to be
chiefly among those who had been formerly intemperate; they felt the loss of their beloved
stimulus, their spirits sunk, and they had rather lay down and rot, and die, than exert themselves.
There were a few who seemed to be like hogs, innately dirty, and who had rather lie dirty than
clean. Mr. Miller had therefore great merit in compelling these men to follow the rules prescribed
to the whole prison. For this he had the thanks of every considerate American.

It was a common remark, that the most indolent and most slovenly men were the most vicious;
and a dirty external was a pretty sure indication of a depraved mind. Such as would not conform
to the rules of cleanliness were committed to the black hole, which was under the prison, and
divided into solitary cells. The agent had the power of confining a prisoner in one of these
dungeons during ten days. It is to the credit of our seamen to remark, that they co-operated
with the agent most heartily in whatever tended to preserve the cleanliness of their persons,
and they applauded the confinement of such as were disinclined to follow the salutary rules
of the prison.

We were one day not a little shocked by the arrival of a number of American soldiers who were
entrapped and taken with Colonel Boestler, in Upper Canada. They exhibited a picture of starvation,
misery, woe, and despair. Their miserable condition called forth our sympathy and compassion,
and I may add, excited our resentment against the authors of their distress. These unfortunate
landsmen had never been used to "rough it" like sailors, but had lived the easy life of farmers
and mechanics. Some of them had never experienced the hardships of a soldier's life, but were
raw, inexperienced militia men. They were taken at some creek between Fort George and Little
York, by the British and their allies the Indians, who stripped them of most of their clothing,
and then wore them down by very long and harrassing marches; first to Montreal, and then to
Quebec; and soon after crowded them on board transports, like negroes in a Guinea ship, where
some suffered a lingering death, and others merely escaped it. It appears from their account,
and from every other account, that the treatment of these poor fellows at their capture, and
on their march, and more especially on board the transports from Quebec to Halifax, was barbarous
in the extreme, and highly disgraceful to the British name and nation.

We have it asserted uniformly, that the prisoners, who came from Quebec to Halifax and to Boston,
down the St. Lawrence, were treated and provided for in a manner little above brutes. Colonel
SCOTT, now Major General Scott, came by that route from Quebec to Boston, and it is well known
that he complained, that there were neither accommodations, provisions, nor any thing on board
the ship proper for a gentleman. He spoke of the whole treatment he received with deep disgust
and pointed resentment. If an officer of his rank and accomplishments had so much reason for
complaint, we may easily conceive what the private soldier must have endured.

We paid every attention in our power to these poor soldiers, whose emaciated appearance and
dejection gave us reason to expect that an end would soon be put to their sufferings by death.
They, however, recruited fast; and we were soon convinced, that they were reduced to the condition
we saw them in, absolutely for want of food. The account which these soldiers gave of their
hardships was enough to fill with rage and resentment the heart of a saint. Four men were not
allowed more provisions than what was needful for one. They assured us, that if they had not
secretly come at some bags of ship bread, unknown to the officers of the transport, they must
have perished for want of food. We cannot pass over one anecdote. Some fish were caught by
our own people on the passage, in common with the crew, but they were compelled to deliver
them all to the captain of the ship, who withheld them from the American prisoners. Some of
the prisoners had a little money, and the captain of the transport was mean enough to take
a dollar for a single cod fish, from men in their situation. This fact has appeared in several
Boston papers, with the names of the persons concerned, and has never been contradicted or
doubted. We give this as the common report; and as the Boston newspapers circulated freely
through Nova Scotia and Canada, we infer, that had the story been void of truth, it would have
been contradicted. This has been amply confirmed.

Those Americans who have no other knowledge of the English character, but what they gather
from books made in London; and from their dramatic productions, and from their national songs,
would believe, as I myself once did, that John Bull, (by which name Dean Swift personified
the whole nation) was a humane, tender-hearted, generous gentleman; but let him be once in
the power of an Englishman, or what is still worse, of a Scotchman, and it will correct his
erroneous notions. An Englishman is strongly attached to his king and country; and thinks nothing
on earth can equal them, while he holds all the rest of the world in comparative contempt.
Until the days of Bonaparte, the people of England really believed that one Englishman could
flog six Frenchmen. They, at one time, had the same idea of us, Americans; but the late war
has corrected their articles of belief. The humanity of the British is one of the most monstrous
impositions, now afloat in the world.

The most glaring feature in the English character is a vain glorious ostentation, as is exhibited
in their elegant and costly steeples, superb hospitals, useless cathedrals, lying columns;
such as the monument near London bridge, which as Pope says of it,

    "Lifts its tall head and lies."

But if you wish to learn their real character, look at their bloody code of laws, read their
wars with Wales, with Scotland, and with Ireland. Look at India, and at their own West India
Islands. Look at the present "border war" carried on by associating themselves with our savages;
look into this very prison, ask the soldiers just brought into it, what they think of British
humanity or British bravery. A reliance on British veracity and honour caused these poor fellows
to surrender, when they found them worse than the Indians. These things may be forgiven, but
they ought never to be forgotten.

NOVA SCOTIA, or New Scotland, was formerly called Chebucto by the native Indians. It is a dreary
region. The country, for many miles west of Halifax, is a continued range of mountains, rising
one over the other, as far as the eye can reach. The winters are severe, and the springs backward.
The trees appeared to be as bare on the 26th of May as the same kind of trees do in the middle
of March, with us in Massachusetts. To us there was something hideous in the aspect of their
mountains; but this may have been partly owing to our own hideous habitation, and low spirits.
The same objects may have appeared charming in the eyes of a Scotch family, just arrived from
the fag-end of the Island of Great Britain.

The capital, Halifax, was settled by a number of British subjects in 1749. It is situated on
a spacious and commodious bay or harbour, called Chebucto, of a bold and easy entrance, where
a thousand of the largest ships might ride with safety. The town is built on the west side
of the harbor, and on the declivity of a commanding hill, whose summit is two hundred and thirty-six
feet perpendicular from the level of the sea. The town is laid out into oblong squares; the
streets parallel and at right angles. The town and suburbs are about two miles in length; and
the general width a quarter of a mile. It contained in 1793, about four thousand inhabitants
and seven hundred houses. At the northern extremity of the town, is the king's naval yard,
completely built and supplied with stores of every kind for the royal navy. The harbor of Halifax
is reckoned inferior to no place in British America for the seat of government, being open
and accessible at all seasons of the year, when almost all other harbors in these provinces
are locked up with ice; also from its entrance, situation, and its proximity to the bay of
Fundy, and principal interior settlements of the province. This city lying on the S coast of
Nova Scotia has communication with Pictou, sixty-eight miles to the NE on the gulf of St. Lawrence,
by a good cart road finished in 1792. It is twelve miles northerly of Cape Sambro, which forms
in part the entrance of the bay; twenty-seven south easterly of Windsor, forty N by E of Truro,
eighty NE by E of Annapolis, on the bay of Fundy, and one hundred and fifty-seven SE of St.
Ann, in New Brunswick, measuring in a straight line. N lat. 44, 40, W lon. 63, 15.

It was settled chiefly by Scotchmen; and since the revolutionary war, which secured our independence,
they have received considerable additions from the United States, of a class of men denominated
refugees, who exiled themselves, on account of our republicanism, and of their own attachment
to the best of kings. They show too often their hatred to us. To this day they call us "rebels;"
and they speak to us in a style and tone as if they were sorry they could not murder us without
the risk of being hanged.

In 1757 to 1759, when the British were engaged in a war with the French and Indians, and were
in possession of Halifax with a large land and naval force, they were obliged to fetch their
wood for fuel from Boston, as they could not venture, (says Capt. Knox, their military historian)
beyond their walls and breastworks; and yet "thinking Johnny Bull" sent a land and naval force
to conquer us, in 1814! of all "thinking" beings, of which we have ever had an account this
Mr. Bull is the strangest! Peradventure much thinking has had the same effect on this poor
gentleman that much learning has had on another.

It is strange, it is passing strange, that a whole people should be so strongly attached to
the honor, crown and dignity of their conquerors, as the Scotch are to the present royal family
of England, whose ancestor was, in fact, an usurper of the crown and dignities of the Scotch
race of kings, the self sufficient Stewarts. The most remarkable thing in the reign of George
the 3d (besides that of loosing America) is the perfect conciliation of the Scotch. Whether
this was owing to my Lord Bute, or to his relation, I am unable to say; but it is a singular
thing in the history of nations, when we take into consideration the cruel treatment of the
Scotch so low down as the year 1745. As there is no new thing under the sun, and what has been
may be again, who knows but that the Cherokees and Choctaws, the Chippewas, the Hurons, the
Pottowatomies and Kickapoos, may hereafter become most attached to our government, and afford
us Judges, Secretaries of State, Admirals, Generals, Governors of Provinces, Grooms of the
Poet's Stool, and Historians? Who knows but the day will come, when there shall spring up from
the mud and ooze of our own trifling lakes, another Walter Scott, who shall sing as sublimely
the story of our border-wars; and who shall be able to trace a long and illustrious line of
ancestry, up to the renowned chief Split-log, Walk-in-the-water, Hanging-maw, or to Tecumsch?
Who knows but that among these American Highlanders, we may find another Ossian and another
Fingal? for what has been, under similar circumstances, may be again.

Early in the month of July, we were not a little disturbed by the arrival of the crew of our
ill omened, ill fated Chesapeake.

The capture of this American frigate by the British frigate Shannon of equal force, was variously
related. From all that I could gather, she was not judiciously brought into action, nor well
fought after Capt. Lawrence fell. It is too much like the British to hunt up every possible
excuse for a defeat; but we must conclude, and I have since found it a general opinion in the
United States, that the frigate was by no means in a condition to go into action. The captain
was a stranger to his own crew; his ship was lumbered up with her cables and every thing else.
She ought to have cruised three or four days before she met the Shannon, and that, it seems,
was the opinion of the brave captain of the British frigate; who was every way prepared for
the action.

The rapid destruction of the British sloop of war Peacock, gave Lawrence high reputation; and
he felt as if he must act up to his high character. He seemed like an hero impelled, by high
ideas of chivalry, to fight, conquer or die, without attending to the needful cautions and
preparations. His first officer he left sick on shore, who died a few days after the battle;
his next officer was soon killed; soon after which he fell himself, uttering the never to be
forgotten words, "DON'T GIVE UP THE SHIP," which has since become a sort of national motto.
While the British captain prudently dressed himself in a short jacket and round hat, so as
not to distinguish himself from the other officers, our Capt. Lawrence, who was six feet and
upwards tall, was in his uniform and military hat, a fair and inviting mark for the enemy's
sharp shooters. No one doubted his bravery, but some have called his prudence in question.

This heroic man and his Lieutenant, Ludlow, were three times buried with great military pomp;
first at Halifax--then at Salem, and last of all at New-York. The name of Lawrence is consecrated
in America, while his ever unlucky ship is doomed to everlasting ignominy; for this was the
vessel that preferred allowing the British ship Leopard to muster her crew, instead of sinking,
with her colors flying.

In the month of August, Halifax was alarmed, or pretended to be alarmed, by a rumor that the
prisoners on Melville Island, which is about three miles, or less, from the town, meditated
a sally, with the determination of seizing the capital of Nova Scotia. They immediately took
the most serious precautions, and screwed up their municipal regulations to the highest pitch.
All the loyal citizens entrusted with arms, were ordered to keep themselves in readiness to
march at a minute's warning to repel the meditated attack of about a thousand unarmed Yankees,
rendered formidable by a reinforcement of a few dozen half starved soldiers, who were taken
by the Indians and British, and sent from Quebec down the river St. Lawrence to the formidable
American post on Melville Island, under the command of turnkey Grant! who was himself under
the command of Lieut. General Mr. Agent Miller!

It was reported and believed by many in Halifax, that the prisoners had made arrangements for
the attack, and had sworn to massacre every man, woman and child. When we found that they really
believed the ridiculous story, we must confess that we enjoyed their terror, and laughed, inwardly,
at their formidable precautions of defence. They placed a company of artillery, with two pieces
of cannon on a height south of the prison; and cleared up a piece of land, and stationed another
corps of artillery with a cannon so placed as to rake our habitation lengthwise, while sentries
were placed at regulated distances on the road, all the way into the town of Halifax. An additional
number of troops were stationed on the island, who bivouacked[A] in the open air near to the
officers' dwellings; in other words, they were placed there to prevent us from cutting the
officers' throats with clam shells, or oyster shells, for we had nothing metallic for the purpose.

When we saw these formidable preparations, and reflected on our own helpless condition, without
any means of offence, beside our teeth and nails, we could not but despise our enemies; and
we did not omit to increase their ridiculous alarm, by whispering together, pointing our fingers
sometimes E. and sometimes W. and sometimes N. and sometimes S. and rubbing our hands and laughing,
and affecting to be in high spirits. The conduct of the agent at this threatening crisis of
his affairs, did not diminish our contempt of him. He would often mount his rostrum, the head
of the stair-case, to address us, and assure us, that we should soon be delivered from our
confinement, and be sent home. He said that he did not expect to see any of us in prison six
weeks longer; and that our detention was then only owing to some delay of orders from admiral
Warren; but that he expected them every moment. He therefore entreated us to remain contented
and quiet a little longer, and not obstruct the kind intentions that were in train for our
deliverance from captivity; and he assured us, upon his honour, that every thing should be
done in his power to expedite our return home; that there were then three cartels getting ready
to convey us away. In the mean time every thing was said and done at Halifax to make us satisfied
and quiet.

While the agent was making his declarations of friendship, and protesting upon his honour,
that we should be sent home, he knew full well that the greatest part of the prisoners were
to be sent across the Atlantic, to suffer the punishment of a British prison. The policy of
the English government was, it seems, to discourage the enlistment of soldiers into our service
by sending the prisoners, taken on the frontiers, to England. They meant also to distress us
by accumulating our seamen in their prisons; and this they imagined would disenable us from
manning our men of war, or sending out privateers. They preferred every mode of distressing
us to that of fair fighting; for, in fair fight and equal numbers, we have always beat them
by sea, and by land.

We were in good humor and high spirits, at the prospect of leaving our loathsome den, and once
more returning home to see our mothers and fathers, sisters and brothers, and school-fellows,
and the old jolly companions of our happy days. We smiled upon Mr. Agent Miller, and he upon
us. We greeted our turnkey, the now and then smooth tongued Mr. Grant, with a good morrow,
and all feelings of hostility were fast subsiding; and one told him that he should be very
glad to see him in Boston; another said he should be very glad to see him in Marblehead, and
another at New-York, and Baltimore, and so on.

Towards the close of the month of August, and after Mr. Agent Miller and the military had taken
the most effectual method to provide against the possibility of resistance from the prisoners,
reports now and then reached us, that the expected exchange was unhappily broken off, and that
it was the fault of the American government. These things were hinted with great caution, as
not entitled to entire credit; the next day it was said, that the business of exchange was
in a prosperous train. All this was done by way of feeling the pulse of the most respectable
of the prisoners; those most likely to take the lead in an insurrection. We could easily trace
all these different stories to the cunning Mr. Miller, through his subordinate agents.

On the first day of September, 1813, an hundred of us prisoners were selected from different
crews, and ordered to get our baggage ready and be at the gate at a certain hour. On enquiring
of our keeper, Mr. Grant, what was the design of this order, he replied with his habitual duplicity,
that we were "to be sent home." When Mr. Miller was asked the same question, he replied, that
he had a particular reason for not answering the question; but none of us doubted, from the
selection from different crews, but that we were about to be sent to our beloved country and
natal homes. We left the prison with light hearts, not without pitying our companions, who
were doomed to wait a while longer before they could be made so happy as we then felt. We stepped
on board the boats with smiling countenances. The barge men told us that the ships we were
going to were cartels.

Having arrived among the shipping, the officer of the boat was asked which of these several
ships was the cartel--"There," said he, pointing to an old 44, "is the ship which is to take
you to old England." Heavens above! What a stroke of thunder was this! We looked at each other
with horror, with dismay, and stupefaction, before our depressed souls recoiled with indignation!
such a change of countenance I never beheld! Had we been on the deck of a ship, and been informed
that a match was just about being touched to her magazine of powder, we should not have exhibited
such a picture of paleness and dismay. The deception was cruel; the duplicity was infamous.
The whole trick from beginning to end, was an instance of cowardice, meanness and villany.
It proves that cowards are cruel; that barbarity and sincerity never meet in the same bosom.

We now saw that the rumor of our rising upon our keepers, and marching to Halifax was a miserable
falsehood, spread abroad for no other purpose than to double our guards, and prevent the imagined
consequences of desperation, should it be discovered that we were to be sent across the Atlantic.
It is possible we might have succeeded in disarming the soldiers on the island, and taken their
cannon; but for want of more arms we could have done but little. Had we all been armed, we
could have entered Halifax, and put to the test the bravery of these loyalists: but an unarmed
multitude are nothing before an eighth part of their number of regular soldiers. Military men
in Halifax could never have had a moment's serious apprehension from the prisoners on Melville
Island. It is my firm opinion, however, that had we been apprized of our cruel destination,
we should have risen upon the boats, and attempted an escape, or sold our lives dearly. Revenge
and desperation have done wonders; and both would have steeled the heart and nerved the arm
of our little band of sufferers. Had we not been beguiled with the lies of the agent and his
turnkey, we should have given our enemies a fresh proof of American bravery, if not imprudence.
Had Miller been on board the boat with us, we should most certainly have thrown him overboard.
His base and dishonourable artifice, first to raise our hopes and expectations to the height
of joy, and then to sink us in despair, was an infamous deed, worthy such a reward. Speaking
for myself, I declare, that my heart sunk within me, and I came near fainting, and it was some
time before tears came to my relief; then in a burst of indignation, I cursed the perfidious
enemy, and felt my soul wound up to deeds of desperation.

CHAPTER II.

Had the agent informed us of the orders of his government, and made us acquainted with our
destination, we should have braced our minds up to the occasion, and submitted to our hard
fate like men. We should have said to each other in the language of Shakespeare--"if these
things be necessities, let's meet them like necessities;" but to be deceived and duped, and
cajoled into a state of great joy and exultation, and then, in an instant, precipitated into
the dark and cold regions of despair, was barbarous beyond expression. As much resentment as
I feel towards Miller and his subalterns, I cannot wish either of them to suffer the pangs
I felt at the idea of this floating dungeon.

The late Governor GERRY, in one of his communications to the legislature of Massachusetts,
when speaking of the impressment and ill usage of our seamen by the English, calls a British
man-of-war "a floating Pandemonium." I never felt the force of that expression until I entered
on board this floating hell.

After some difficulty and delay we got ourselves and bedding up the side of the ship; and as
our names were called over, our bedding was served out to us. We informed the officer that
there were but seventy blankets for an hundred men; to which he replied, that he had orders
to serve out blankets in the same proportion as they served out our provisions. To understand
this, the reader must know that the British have been in the habit, all the war, of giving
to their prisoners a less quantity of food than to their own men. They uniformly gave to six
of us the same quantity which they gave to four of their own sailors. If what they allowed
to their own men was barely sufficient, what they gave to us could not be enough to satisfy
the cravings of hunger; and this we all found to be the case.

