To make nice distinctions between one word and another, to separate subjects by infinite divisions,
not as the real nature of things, but as fancy directed, and to draw conclusions with no moral
end in view, were the pursuits of the schoolmen. The decrees of the councils of the Church
of Rome, its edicts and ceremonial and ritual observances, were scrupulously regarded instead
of obedience to the pure and practical elements of Christianity. Classical learning was entirely
neglected. Here is the feature of Roman church history which infidels have endeavored to use
falsely against even Rome, to wit: the opposition of the churchmen of those times to classical
learning. This was considered dangerous to true piety, and calculated to corrupt the pure theology
of the gospel, because the orators of Greece and Rome were regarded as blind guides of erring
reason and seducers to the paths of sin and destruction. Virgil and Horace were looked upon
merely as the advocates of a profane and idolatrous mythology, and Cicero was regarded as a
vain declaimer, impiously elated with the talent of Pagan eloquence, but the infidel charge
that the church has always been in the way of scientific education, expressed in unqualified
terms, is simply false in fact. That there was a time when she was opposed to classical learning
is a well attested fact, but she, at the same time, taught and operated in universities and
monasteries, as stated above. The first dawnings of modern literature are seen in connection
with the cultivation of the language of Provence and the productions of the Troubadours. The
first great teacher in this connection was William, Count of Poiton, a nobleman, distinguished
by his powers in the crusades. Many of the men of note who were in the crusades, were of his
character. Their writings upon the topics of war, gallantry, satire and history, first roused
Europe from her ignorance and lethargy, first taught her to think and reflect and judge upon
subjects of imagination. The Troubadours sustained the middle place between Gothic ignorance
and Italian excellence, and literature is indebted to them for rearing the first fruits of
European genius and inspiring the moderns with the love of poetry. Their influence and language
spread over all the countries of Europe. Their bards were in the courts of kings and the castles
of barons. The commencement of the crusades and the beginning of the fifteenth century, mark
the limits of their fame. Their romance had its rise in the manners of chivalry, and fell into
disrepute when chivalry declined. In the fourteenth century men of intellectual genius in Italy
resolved to cultivate their own native language and to combine with its grandeur the charms
of imagination and the acquirements of classical learning. The poetry of the Tuscan school,
the works of Dante, Ariosto, Boccio and Petrarch, have never yet been excelled by four succeeding
centuries of genius and literature. The way was open for the revival of classical learning
in the fifteenth century, and for the cultivation of all the arts and sciences connected with
its cultivation.

The downfall of the Roman Empire in the east and the discovery of the art of printing happened
about the same time. Scholars had long trembled in view of the approach of Mahomet the second.
Constantinople was captured by the Turks in 1458; then Chrysoloras, Gaza of Thessalonica, Demetrius
Chalcondyles, Johannes Lascaris, Callistus, Constantius, Johannes Andronicus, and many other
learned Greeks, fled into Italy for protection, where they found, at Florence, several Greek
professors who had been persuaded by Cosmo de Medici to settle in that city. They settled in
Florence and there interpreted the ancient writings which had been kept in the eastern metropolis.
The best Italian scholars fell in with them and soon became enamored with the spirit of poetry,
eloquence and history. Here a better philosophy was soon taken up, and the cunning of scholasticism,
as known in the empty speculations of metaphysicians, gave place to the more profitable principles
of moral philosophy. The study of the Greek language was introduced in England by William Grocyn,
a fellow of New College, Oxford, who died about the year 1520.

"To the mechanical genius of Holland we must ascribe the discovery of the art of printing,
for the original inventor was Laurentius John Coster, of Haerlem, who made his first essay
with wooden types about the year 1430. The art was communicated by his servant to John Faust
and John Guttenberg, of Mentz. It was carried to perfection by Peter Shoeffer, the son-in-law
of Faustus, who invented the modes of casting metal types."

Trihemius, in his Chronicle, written A.D. 1514, says he had it from the mouth of Peter Shoeffer
that the first book they printed with movable types was the Bible, about the year 1450, in
which the expenses were so great that 4,000 florins were expended before they completed twelve
sheets. The author of a manuscript, Chronicle of Cologne, compiled in 1499, also says that
he was told by Ulric Zell, of Cologne, who himself introduced printing there in 1466, that
the Latin Bible was first begun to be printed in the year of Jubilee, 1450, and that it was
in large type. Mr. Edwards, of Pall Mall possessed a copy of this curious Bible in three volumes,
bound in morocco. In his catalogue it was valued at £126. There, is a beautiful copy of this
work in the Bodleian (or Bodleyan) Library in the University at Oxford.

The art of printing soon spread over the greater part of Europe, and to-day our world is a
world of books, and the love of the Bible was the origin of printing.

COUNCILS.

UNITY OF ROMAN CHURCH.

The Council of Nice assembled in Asia Minor by the direction of Constantine in the year 325.
Here we see more than two hundred and fifty bishops, mostly from the east, with presbyters,
deacons and others, engaged in an effort to settle the Arian heresy, which consisted in maintaining
that Christ was the most exalted of all created things, but inferior to God the Father. This
opinion was first ventilated in the year 318. It was publicly condemned by the Council of Alexandria
in the year 320, and then by the Council of Nice. This Council maintained the perfect equality
of essence of both Father and Son, and could only express their relation by terming it eternal
generation, which Dr. Adam Clark calls eternal nonsense.

"Arius and his partisans were banished by the Council of Alexandria, but as he had powerful
adherents he found means to return at the express command of Constantine. He was on his way
to receive the oath of ministerial allegiance when he very suddenly, as some say, died by poison.
His death was in the year 336. It is said that Constantine was baptized into the Arian communion
in the year 337. The followers of Arius increased greatly after his death. Under Constantius,
called Flavius Julius, Arianism became the religion of the court, and it even penetrated as
far as Rome, which was obliged to receive into its communion Felix, an Arian bishop. But the
divisions which grew among the Arians themselves prepared for the Catholic church an easy victory
over them and led to their final extinction." It is worthy of being remembered at all times,
and under all circumstances, that this whole controversy is unauthorized in the Gospel of Jesus
Christ, faith in him as the Son of the living God being the great truth upon which the Church
of God is built. What eternal nonsense it is to be quarreling about whether he and his Father
are of the same essence. The truths of Christianity and of Protestantism are found in the teachings
of the anti-Nicene fathers, but we must remember that these were uninspired men, and therefore
displayed no standard of truth. The term fathers, without qualification, includes a vast range,
comprising a period of eleven hundred years, from Clemens to Bernard, from the Bishop of Rome
to the Monk of Clairvaux.

Immediately after the Council of Nice their works took on the infections of popery. Each succeeding
writer in each succeeding century added to the gathering mass of error and superstition. The
filth and dirt accumulated until the system of delusion was fully developed in the "man of
sin." The Fathers, as they are called, are entitled to no more than other men. They should
never be resorted to as authoritative or inspired, for they were not. They may be used as witnesses
to show the customs of their times. So far as they are concerned as the standard of truth,
we may just as well, with safety and without remorse, deliver them to the Vatican to rot with
the lumber and legends of the dark ages. The anti-Nicene fathers had many errors, but theirs
were not the errors of Romanism. The religious productions of the first three centuries of
our era contain, in the main, the principles of Protestantism. The post-Nicene fathers, or
popery, may be compared to a field of wheat overrun with weeds. The great work of the Protestant
reformers was to eradicate the weeds. Failing to accomplish this in the Roman field, they gathered
the pure seed grain and sowed it in the Lord's field, "the world," where it now waves in beauty,
tending to a glorious harvest. Once on a time a person was asked where Protestantism was before
the Reformation. He answered in turn, It was where your face was this morning before it was
washed. The reply was just. Dirt could be no part of the human countenance, and removing the
filth by washing could neither change the features of the face nor destroy its identity. By
this cleansing operation the face only assumed its normal and natural appearance. In like manner
the superstitious traditions of the Roman church were no part of Christianity. It was but proper
that the reformers should dismiss the adulterations of the ages and plant their feet away back
in the land of Israel with the Christ of God.

Arius was regarded as an innovater on the true faith. The great enemy of Arianism was simply
Trinitarianism. The council of Nice was presided over by Hosius. The assembled fathers declared
the consubstantiality of the son for the establishment of Trinitarianism and the extermination
of Arianism. This wonderful term, consubstantiality, had been rejected by the synod of Antioch
sixty years before, and by Dionysius, of Alexandria, in opposition to Sabellianism.

In 359 the Emperor Constantius assembled the council of Rimini, a city of Central Italy. Six
hundred bishops and a number of priests now undo all that the council of Nice had done. This
council was as accommodating to Arian Constantius as to the Trinitarian Constantine. Constantius,
forsaking the Trinitarian system, adopted Arianism, and Greeks and Latins complied with the
imperial wishes, and, like dutiful subjects, signed the Arian and semi-Arian confessions of
Sirneium, Seleucia, Milan and Ariminum. The western and eastern prelacy subscribed in compliance
with their sovereign to the Arian creed, which, as Du Pin has shown, was signed by his infallibility,
Pope Liberius.

Next in our programme comes Theodosius I., assembling a council of one hundred and fifty bishops
at Constantinople in the year 381. Theodosius was a zealous Catholic; he was baptized before
the end of the first year of his reign, and immediately published an edict in support of the
doctrine of the Trinity, branding all who did not hold it as heretics. His council was presided
over by St. Gregory Nazianzen. The chief work of this council was to anathematise the Council
of Rimini, which was composed of six hundred bishops and a multitude of priests. This work
was done, and so one hundred and fifty bishops curse and denounce as heretical and false six
hundred bishops and a multitude of priests; so the voice of the many is not always the voice
of God, nor yet the voice of a council the voice of a Pope; neither is the infallibility of
a Pope always found in a council, nor is the infallibility of one Pope always found in the
voice of another.

Theodosius II. convened a council in 431. Nestorius, bishop of Constantinople, seems to have
been the cause of this convocation, having persecuted all who were not of his opinions; now
undergoes persecution for having plead that the Holy Virgin Mary was not the mother of God.
He plead that Jesus Christ being the word, consubstantial with the Father, Mary could not,
at the same time, be the mother of God the Father and of God the Son. To settle this quarrel
Nestorius demands a council and obtains it. This council condemned Nestorius, and one of its
committees displaced Cyril. The Emperor, Theodosius II., reversed all that was done, and then
permitted it to reassemble. The deputies from Rome, John, Patriarch of Antioch, with twenty-six
suffragans, arrived five days after the transaction, and it is on record that his arrival was
followed by one of the most distinguished cursing matches of antiquity. The Roman bishops on
occasions of this character always had recourse to cursing, and they scarcely ever failed to
ease themselves up with an overflow of anathemas and execrations. Cyril and Nestorius exchanged
mutual imprecations, even before the sitting of the council. The saint, it is said, had launched
twelve anathemas at the heretic in an Alexandrian synod in the year 430, and the heretic Nestorius
thanked the saint by returning the same number of inverted blessings. This has been a heavy
business among Popes for many centuries. John and Cyril engaged in the same kind of warfare
immediately after John's arrival at Ephesus. John and his party congratulated Cyril, Memnon,
and their accomplices by deposing and excommunicating them, and now the parties continue, for
some time, to give vent to their feelings in mutual anathemas. These benedictions were the
only articles of mutual exchange, current and of legal tender value between the parties. At
last the Emperor had Nestorius and Cyril arrested, and ordered all the bishops to return each
to his church, and so no conclusion was reached. The Greeks called the second assembly at Ephesus
a gang of felons, but the first, it is said, excelled it in all the arts of villainy. The contest
was finally ended, not by the church, but by the state. The Emperor reinstated Cyril and banished
Nestorius, and the western diocese was in the end reduced to submission and the church to unity,
not by ecclesiastical authority, but by imperial power. (See Evagrius 1, 5; Liberatus c. 6;
Godeau 3, 310.) The Council of Chalcedon met in the year 451. St. Leo, bishop of Rome, took
the advantage of the troubles which the quarrel about the two natures occasioned in the empire,
and presided at the council by his legates, which was a new feature in councils. But the fathers
of the council apprehending that the church of the west would, from this precedent, pretend
to the superiority over the eastern church, decided, by their twenty-eighth canon, that the
see of Constantinople and the see of Rome should enjoy alike the same advantages and privileges.
This was the origin of the long enmity which prevailed and still prevails between the two churches,
the eastern and the western. This council endorsed and established the "two natures in one
person." The twenty-eighth canon of this council has been rejected and condemned by the Latins,
yet Pelagius, Gregory, Pascal and Boniface acknowledged this council, thereby placing the seal
of infallibility upon it as much as they ever did upon other councils.

In 553 Justinian assembled a council at Constantinople to discuss the three chapters, as they
were designated, composed by Ibas, Theodoret and Theodorus. Vigilius, bishop of Rome, with
bishops and deacons from Italy, Africa and the east, was in Constantinople during the entire
sittings of this council, and refused to attend although invited. But the council went on,
all the same. His infallibility, supported by his clique, opposed the emperor and his council,
but in vain. He formed his bishops and deacons into a separate council, published a constitution
defending, in modified terms, the three chapters, and interdicting all further discussion upon
the subject by the authority of the Apostolic See; pronounced anathemas against the persons
and defenders of the authors of the three chapters. Having now made himself a partisan of the
authors, who were condemned by the emperor's council, he was cursed for promoting heresy, and
banished in dishonor. This served to bring him to his senses upon several matters, and so he
turned about and approved what he had before condemned. And so heresy was converted into orthodoxy
by the magical power of an emperor at the expense of the infallibility of Vigilius. The Italians,
Tuscans, Ligurians, Istrians, French, Illyrians and Africans, who took a stand against the
emperor, were like the pope, the "vicar general of God," converted by the sword of Justinian.
The Italian clergy who resisted were banished.

"In 681 there was a council at Constantinople, convoked by Constantine, the bearded. This council
was called by the Latins 'in trullo,' because it was held in an apartment of the imperial palace.
The emperor himself presided. The bishops of Constantinople and Antioch were on his right hand,
and the deputies from Jerusalem and Rome were on his left. In this council it was decided that
Jesus Christ had two wills." Here "Pope Honorius I. was condemned as a monothelite, that is,
as wishing Jesus Christ to have but one will." O, shame! What will come next? Well, we are
out at sea in the very darkest periods of the dark ages, and there is no telling how much our
senses may be shocked. We find next what is known as the Second Council of Nice. It was assembled
by a woman, Mrs. Irene, in the name of her son, whose eyes she had caused to be put out. Her
husband, Leo, had abolished the worship of images as leading to idolatry. This woman re-established
this worship. During Constantine's minority she executed the imperial power. She was a bold
defender and patron of emblematic or image worship. It is said that she had the ambition of
Lucifer and the malignity of a demon. She is accused of being connected with the murder of
her husband. "She put out the eyes of Nicephorus, and amputated the tongues of Christopher,
Nicetas, Athenius and Eudoxas, Constantine's sons, for suspicion of conspiracy. She destroyed
the eyes of her own son." "No woman," says Bruys, "was ever less worthy of life than this princess."
Her ambition, says Godeau, made her violate all the laws of God and man. Now listen, but first
prepare to experience all that the opposite extreme can possibly produce. Is there any place
in your nature where life and death, or heaven and hell, can meet in festive joys? No. Then
bear with my story the best you can, for it must be told. Here it is: Theodorus and Theophanes
extol that vile woman for her VIRTUE AND EXCELLENCE(?). The Greeks placed her among the saints
in their menology, and in holy festivity celebrate her anniversary. Hartman and Binius, in
more modern times, flatter her prudence and piety(?). Alexander lauds her religion and faith
as worthy of immortal honor(?), though the blinding of her son, he admits, exposed her to reprehension.
Baronius justifies the assassination of her son. He commends the inhumanity which arose from
zeal for religion. Here let the curtain drop till my next on councils makes its appearance.

INFIDELS IN EVIDENCE IN FAVOR OF CHRISTIANITY.

