At Opera, Wednesday Night, July 8.--Grand sight. Very grand; not only that, but beautiful.
Costumes, uniforms, military, diplomatic,--all sorts, the real article and the Dathanic,--impossible
to tell one from the other, taking them as a lot; but still, I feel that it is better to remain
in my Stall, where only the upper part of me is visible to the unclothed eye. The consciousness
that I am here, not as myself, but in disguise as somebody else, name unknown, rather oppresses
me; only at first, however, as very soon I recognise a number of familiar faces and figures
all in strange array. A stockbroker or two, a few journalists, several ordinary people belonging
to various callings and professions, some others noble, some gentle, some simple, but most
of us eyeing each other furtively, and wondering where the deuce the other fellow got his costume
from, and what right he has to wear it.

Every moment I expect some gaily attired person to come up and say to me confidentially, "I
know that suit; I wore it last so-and-so. Isn't it a trifle tight about the shoulders? Beware!
when I wore it, it went a bit in the back." Man in gorgeous uniform makes his way to the vacant
Stall next to me. I am a bit flustered until he salutes me heartily with--"How d'ye do? How
are you?" Why, it's--well, no matter who it is. I have met him everywhere for years; we are
the best of friends. I knew he is something; somewhere in the City, but not much anywhere else,
and at all events he is no more a military man than I am a courtier, but when he confides to
me that he was once upon a time in the Dampshire Yeomanry, and that this uniform has served
him for years, and looks uncommonly well at night though it wouldn't bear the light of day,
I begin to comprehend the entire scene.

My friend--we will call him TOMMY TUCKER, (for I have frequently encountered him at supper,
and am aware of his capacity)--is full of information. Some of our neighbours of an inquiring
turn are asking one another who that is, and who this is, and so forth; and when the answers
are incorrect, or even before the answers can be given, TOMMY TUCKER has replied in a low voice,
with a view to imparting general information gratis, that So-and-So, in scarlet and silver,
is Mr. BLACKSTONE, of BLACKSTONE & SONS, head of the great Coal Merchant Firm; that the man
in blue and silver, supposed to be a Hungarian attaché, is the junior partner in BUNNUMS &
Co., the Big Cake Purveyor; and that the warlike person, with a jingling sabre, is not a Prussian
officer, but is Deputy JONES, in the gorgeous uniform of the Old Buckshire Yeomanry; and when
he's in the City, where he began in the usual way that millionnaires always do begin, by sweeping
out an office, he is simply JONES, of Messrs. BROWN, JONES, ROBINSON & Co., Wharfingers. TOMMY
TUCKER knows everybody, and everything about everybody, too. Who is that lady with a splendid
tiara of diamonds?--that is the Duchess of BURLINGTON, "who"--and here, in a semi-whisper,
intended for everybody's information, he tells how those brilliants come out for "one night
only," and how they will be called for to-morrow morning by a confidential agent from POPSHOPPER's
Establishment in the Great Loan Land. TOM TUCKER is full of these stories. There isn't a person
he doesn't know, until happening to recognise here a one and there a one, I correct him of
my own private and personal knowledge, when he frankly admits that I am right; and after casually
explaining how he does occasionally mistake the Countess of DUNNOYER for Lady ELIZABETH MARTIN,
he goes off at a tangent, and picks out several other distinguished-looking personages, numbering
them as "first to right," "second to left," and so forth, as if in a collection of wax-works,
giving to each one of them a name and a history. His acquaintance with the private life of
the aristocracy and the plutocracy is so extensive that I can only wonder at his knowledge,
his or marvel at wondrous powers of ready invention.

So it goes on. Then enter the chief characters. All rise; the orchestra plays the "National
Anthem," in German, suppose, out of compliment to our Imperial visitors; and afterwards in
English (translated, and, I fancy, "transposed"), in honour of H.R.H. the Prince and Princess.
All the wax-work figures form in a row, under the direction of Lord Chamberlain LATHOM; the
machinery is put in motion; they all bow to the audience; glasses are riveted on them; everybody
is craning and straining to get a good view; the people in the gallery and just over the Royal
Box loyally enjoy the scene, being quite unable to see any of the distinguished persons who
are, in this instance, "quite beneath their notice." And then Signor MANCINELLI turns his back
on everybody, and gets to business.

After this, I feel that a buckle, somewhere or other, has turned traitor, and inventing an
excuse with a readiness worthy of TOMMY TUCKER himself, I suddenly, but cautiously, retire.
I descend the grand staircase between two rows of beefeaters reclining drowsily at their ease.
Fast asleep, some of 'em, after too much beef. Imagine myself a prisoner, in disguise of course,
escaping from the Tower in the olden time. Then, fearing the collapse of another buckle or
button, or the sudden "giving" of a seam, I steal cautiously past the Guards--then past serried
ranks of soldiers under the colonnade--then--once more in the street of Bow, and I am free!
I breathe again.

Hie thee home, my gallant steed (an eighteenpenny fare in a hansom), and let me resume the
costume of private life, trifle with a cutlet, drain the goblet and smoke the mild havannah.
Sic transit gloria Wednesday!

(Signed.) (Mysteriously.) THE DUKE OF DIS GUISE.

P.S.--Although there was more money in the house than on any previous occasion, yet never did
I see so many persons who had "come in with orders," which they displayed lavishly, wearing
them upon their manly buzzums.

       *       *       *       *       *

MEN IN POSSESSION.

The Manager of Covent Garden is Sheriff HARRIS. Can all his operatic officials all over the
house be correctly termed "Sheriff's Officers"?

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

IMPERIAL IMPRESSIONS.

That they are not accustomed to ultra punctuality in the arrival of steam-yachts at Port Victoria.

That some one ought to catch it for not looking after the water-pipes in the State dining-room.

That it is rather trying to have to remain dignified with your boots in three inches of water.

That the Eton Volunteers are just the sort of boys to follow the tradition of the past, and
win a second Waterloo.

That still it was a little awkward to have to review them in the pauses of a thunderstorm.

That the wedding as a wedding was not bad, but a couple of hundred thousand troops or so posted
as a guard of honour, would have made it more impressive.

That Buckingham Palace is rather triste, when it is populated on the scale of one inhabitant
to the square mile.

That Covent Garden Opera House, decorated with leagues of flower wreaths, is the finest sight
in the world.

That Sheriff AUGUSTUS GLOSSOP HARRIS deserves a dukedom, and, if he were a German, should have it.

That one State Ball is like every other, but still it was very well done on Friday.

That the visit to the City was an entire success (although I wish the audience had made up
their minds whether they would stand up or sit while I was speaking), thanks no doubt to the
influence of the Sheriff.

That Saturday's doings were delightful. I was absolutely deafened with the cheering.

That it is very pleasant to be so well received, especially when, three years ago, I was generally
snubbed and treated as a nobody.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BUSY BISLEY.

    SCENE--Within measurable distance of Waking. Enter Lounger
    and Marksman, R. and L.

Lounger (heartily). Why, I am glad to see you! And how are things going on?

Marksman (cordially, but abruptly). Capitally! Good-bye!

Loung. But I say, what a hurry you are in! Can't you stop a minute for a chat?

Marks. Another time, but just now moments are precious.

Loung. But I say, you see I have found myself here--it doesn't take much longer than getting
down to Wimbledon.

Marks. Of course it doesn't--whoever said it did? But there, old chap, I must be off!

Loung. You are in a hurry! Ah, we used to have pleasant days in the old place?

Marks. Did we? I daresay we did.

Loung. Why, of course! Grand old days! Don't you remember what fun it used to be decorating
your tent; and then, when the ladies came down--which they did nearly all the day long--what
larks it was getting them tea and claret-cup?

Marks. Very likely. But we don't have many ladies now, and a good job too--they are a bore.

Loung. Well, you are a chap! Why, how can there be any fun without your sisters, and your cousins,
and your maiden aunts?

Marks. We don't want fun. But there, good-bye!

Loung. But I say, I have come all this way to look you up.

Marks. (unbending). Very kind of you, but, my dear fellow, you have chosen rather an unfortunate
time.

Loung. Why, at Wimbledon you had nothing to do!

Marks. Very likely. But then Bisley isn't Wimbledon.

Loung. (dryly). So it seems. Everyone said that, when they moved the camp further away from
home, they would ruin the meeting.

Marks. Then everyone was wrong. Why, we are going on swimmingly.

Loung. It must be beastly dull.

Marks. Not at all. Lovely country, good range, and, after it rains, two minutes later it is
dry as bone.

Loung. Yes, but it stands to reason that it can't be as popular as Wimbledon.

Marks. My dear fellow, figures are the best test of that. In all the history of the Association
we have never had more entries than this year.

Loung. That may be, but you don't have half the fun you had nearer town.

Marks. (laughing). Don't want to! Business, my dear fellow, not pleasure! And now, old man,
I really must be off! Ta, ta! See you later. [Exit.

Loung. Well, whatever he may say, I prefer Wimbledon. And as there doesn't seem much for me
to do down here, I shall return to town. [Does so. Curtain. How the House of Commons gets along
without ELCHO is another story. Of course we are not absolutely ELCHO-less. Amurath has succeeded
to Amurath, and there is still an ELCHO in the Commons. Perhaps in time he may reach the towering
height of his illustrious father. He does very well as it is; made exceedingly smart speech
the other afternoon on adjournment over Derby Day. We try to bear up; make the best of things;
but in our secret hearts confess that this century has seen but one Lord ELCHO, and now he's
Earl of WEMYSS.

Was in fine old style to-night. DORCHESTER brought on question of Volunteers. They are going
to Wimbledon on Saturday to be reviewed by that veteran the German EMPEROR. DORCHESTER, in
modest, convincing speech, pointed out how unfair it was that, in addition to, in many cases,
losing a day's pay, in all cases incurring a day's hard work, that Volunteers should be required
to pay expenses of their trip to Wimbledon. DORCHESTER left nothing unsaid; put the whole case
in brief speech. But WEMYSS not going to be left out. Interposed in fine patronising manner;
made acknowledgment of DORCHESTER's good intention; but, suggesting an absolutely imaginary
case, took exception to the presentation of the Volunteers in the light of asking for a day's
pay. That, he said, would spoil the whole case.

No one had suggested anything of the kind. WEMYSS had brought this nine-pin in with him as
if it were one of a set of baccarat counters, had set it up, and was now knocking it down.
Noble Lords sat and stared in polite amazement. CRANBROOK, in his impetuous way, jumped up
and raised point of order. WEMYSS put him aside with sweep of sword-arm, and went on to end
of his speech, which showed who was the true friend of the Volunteer forces.

"Ah," said young LAMINGTON, second Baron, regarding with pleased interest the flush of satisfaction
that mantled WEMYSS' brow when he resumed his seat, "this House would have been nothing only
for us fellows coming in from the Commons. It's new blood that does it. I'll make them a speech
myself some day."

Business done.--Quite a lot in the Commons.

Tuesday.--FERGUSSON says life at Foreign Office would be endurable only for LABBY. The Sage
has got the Triple Alliance on the brain; spends his mornings in drafting questions there anent.
That FERGUSSON wouldn't mind so much, only it involves his spending his afternoons in drafting
answers that shall look coherent, and yet say nothing. Answers often so admirably suited to
their purpose, that doubts arise as to whether a firmer hand than FERGUSSON's has not traced
them on paper. "A dull man," was the phrase in which, years ago, JOHN BRIGHT dismissed from
consideration the statesman then known as Sir CHARLES ADDERLY. To House of Commons FERGUSSON
is a dull man, incapable, as it seems, of framing these subtle answers that look as if they
meant so much, and yet say so little.

Whoever be the author, it must be said that FERGUSSON contributes to success of answers by
his manner of reading them. So portentous is his gravity, so like a stone wall his imperturbability,
that the Sage dashes himself up against it with much the same effect as if he were attacking
one of the buttresses of Westminster Hall. It is a fortuitous concatenation of circumstances,
most happy in its result, that when in the House of Commons an answer is to be given which
shall convey no information, the MARKISS should dictate it, and FERGUSSON recite it. If, in
reply to the Sage's question to-night, as to the understanding between this country and Italy
with respect to the status quo in Mediterranean, FERGUSSON had stood up and recited the multiplication
table up to twelve times twelve, the remarks would have been just as relevant and informing
as those he read from the paper. Moreover, the gravity of his aspect and the solemn inflection
of his voice, would have compelled Members to listen to the end of the recitation with a sort
of dim consciousness that they were really being informed as to the details of an understanding
come to between Her majesty's Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, and the Governments of
Germany and Italy.

Business done.--Education Bill through Report Stage.

Thursday.--House having disposed of Land Purchase Bill and Education Bill, is able to devote
portion of sitting to consideration of its own personal affairs. MORTON brings on subject of
Bar in Lobby of House of Commons. Nothing to do with the Bar that LOCKWOOD, ASQUITH, and REID
adorn; merely a counter, at which they sell what JEMMY LOWTHER alludes to, with a bewitching
air of distant acquaintance, as "alcoholic liquors." MORTON, whose great ambition in life is
to make people thoroughly comfortable, wants to close the Bar. SYDNEY HERBERT, making a rare
appearance as spokesman for the Government on the Treasury Bench, pleads as a set-off against
alleged evil example, the large consumption of "lemon squash," which he explains to the House
is "a non-intoxicant." CAMPBELL-BANNERMAN sends thrill of apprehension through listening Senate
by inquiring whether the House of Commons is licensed for the sale of intoxicating liquors?

