I soon had to leave the influence of this environment and was brought back to my people at
Dresden. Meanwhile my family, under the guidance of my bereaved mother, had been obliged to
settle down as well as they could under the circumstances. My eldest brother Albert, who originally
intended to study medicine, had, upon the advice of Weber, who had much admired his beautiful
tenor voice, started his theatrical career in Breslau. My second sister Louisa soon followed
his example, and became an actress. My eldest sister Rosalie had obtained an excellent engagement
at the Dresden Court Theatre, and the younger members of the family all looked up to her; for
she was now the main support of our poor sorrowing mother. My family still occupied the same
comfortable home which my father had made for them. Some of the spare rooms were occasionally
let to strangers, and Spohr was among those who at one time lodged with us. Thanks to her great
energy, and to help received from various sources (among which the continued generosity of
the Court, out of respect to the memory of my late stepfather, must not be forgotten), my mother
managed so well in making both ends meet, that even my education did not suffer.

After it had been decided that my sister Clara, owing to her exceedingly beautiful voice, should
also go on the stage, my mother took the greatest care to prevent me from developing any taste
whatever for the theatre. She never ceased to reproach herself for having consented to the
theatrical career of my eldest brother, and as my second brother showed no greater talents
than those which were useful to him as a goldsmith, it was now her chief desire to see some
progress made towards the fulfilment of the hopes and wishes of my step-father, 'who hoped
to make something of me.' On the completion of my eighth year I was sent to the Kreuz Grammar
School in Dresden, where it was hoped I would study! There I was placed at the bottom of the
lowest class, and started my education under the most unassuming auspices.

My mother noted with much interest the slightest signs I might show of a growing love and ability
for my work. She herself, though not highly educated, always created a lasting impression on
all who really learnt to know her, and displayed a peculiar combination of practical domestic
efficiency and keen intellectual animation. She never gave one of her children any definite
information concerning her antecedents. She came from Weissenfels, and admitted that her parents
had been bakers [FOOTNOTE: According to more recent information--mill owners] there. Even in
regard to her maiden name she always spoke with some embarrassment, and intimated that it was
'Perthes,' though, as we afterwards ascertained, it was in reality 'Bertz.' Strange to say,
she had been placed in a high-class boarding-school in Leipzig, where she had enjoyed the advantage
of the care and interest of one of 'her father's influential friends,' to whom she afterwards
referred as being a Weimar prince who had been very kind to her family in Weissenfels. Her
education in that establishment seems to have been interrupted on account of the sudden death
of this 'friend.' She became acquainted with my father at a very early age, and married him
in the first bloom of her youth, he also being very young, though he already held an appointment.
Her chief characteristics seem to have been a keen sense of humour and an amiable temper, so
we need not suppose that it was merely a sense of duty towards the family of a departed comrade
that afterwards induced the admirable Ludwig Geyer to enter into matrimony with her when she
was no longer youthful, but rather that he was impelled to that step by a sincere and warm
regard for the widow of his friend.