 Separate yourself from these sinful ones, and prepare
your soul, for the hour of departure draweth nigh."

Violent, wicked, sinful, as he might have been, Richard of England met his death like a Christian
man. Peace be to the soul of the brave! When the news came to King Philip of France, he sternly
forbade his courtiers to rejoice at the death of his enemy. "It is no matter of joy but of
dolor," he said, "that the bulwark of Christendom and the bravest king of Europe is no more."

Meanwhile what has become of Sir Wilfrid of Ivanhoe, whom we left in the act of rescuing his
sovereign by running the Count of Chalus through the body?

As the good knight stooped down to pick his sword out of the corpse of his fallen foe, some
one coming behind him suddenly thrust a dagger into his back at a place where his shirt-of-mail
was open (for Sir Wilfrid had armed that morning in a hurry, and it was his breast, not his
back, that he was accustomed ordinarily to protect); and when poor Wamba came up on the rampart,
which he did when the fighting was over,--being such a fool that he could not be got to thrust
his head into danger for glory's sake--he found his dear knight with the dagger in his back
lying without life upon the body of the Count de Chalus whom he had anon slain.

Ah, what a howl poor Wamba set up when he found his master killed! How he lamented over the
corpse of that noble knight and friend! What mattered it to him that Richard the King was borne
wounded to his tent, and that Bertrand de Gourdon was flayed alive? At another time the sight
of this spectacle might have amused the simple knave; but now all his thoughts were of his
lord: so good, so gentle, so kind, so loyal, so frank with the great, so tender to the poor,
so truthful of speech, so modest regarding his own merit, so true a gentleman, in a word, that
anybody might, with reason, deplore him.

As Wamba opened the dear knight's corselet, he found a locket round his neck, in which there
was some hair; not flaxen like that of my Lady Rowena, who was almost as fair as an Albino,
but as black, Wamba thought, as the locks of the Jewish maiden whom the knight had rescued
in the lists of Templestowe. A bit of Rowena's hair was in Sir Wilfrid's possession, too; but
that was in his purse along with his seal of arms, and a couple of groats: for the good knight
never kept any money, so generous was he of his largesses when money came in.

Wamba took the purse, and seal, and groats, but he left the locket of hair round his master's
neck, and when he returned to England never said a word about the circumstance. After all,
how should he know whose hair it was? It might have been the knight's grandmother's hair for
aught the fool knew; so he kept his counsel when he brought back the sad news and tokens to
the disconsolate widow at Rotherwood.

The poor fellow would never have left the body at all, and indeed sat by it all night, and
until the gray of the morning; when, seeing two suspicious-looking characters advancing towards
him, he fled in dismay, supposing that they were marauders who were out searching for booty
among the dead bodies; and having not the least courage, he fled from these, and tumbled down
the breach, and never stopped running as fast as his legs would carry him, until he reached
the tent of his late beloved master.

The news of the knight's demise, it appeared, had been known at his quarters long before; for
his servants were gone, and had ridden off on his horses; his chests were plundered: there
was not so much as a shirt-collar left in his drawers, and the very bed and blankets had been
carried away by these FAITHFUL attendants. Who had slain Ivanhoe? That remains a mystery to
the present day; but Roger de Backbite, whose nose he had pulled for defamation, and who was
behind him in the assault at Chalus, was seen two years afterwards at the court of King John
in an embroidered velvet waistcoat which Rowena could have sworn she had worked for Ivanhoe,
and about which the widow would have made some little noise, but that--but that she was no
longer a widow.

That she truly deplored the death of her lord cannot be questioned, for she ordered the deepest
mourning which any milliner in York could supply, and erected a monument to his memory as big
as a minster. But she was a lady of such fine principles, that she did not allow her grief
to overmaster her; and an opportunity speedily arising for uniting the two best Saxon families
in England, by an alliance between herself and the gentleman who offered himself to her, Rowena
sacrificed her inclination to remain single, to her sense of duty; and contracted a second
matrimonial engagement.

That Athelstane was the man, I suppose no reader familiar with life, and novels which are a
rescript of life, and are all strictly natural and edifying, can for a moment doubt. Cardinal
Pandulfo tied the knot for them: and lest there should be any doubt about Ivanhoe's death (for
his body was never sent home after all, nor seen after Wamba ran away from it), his Eminence
procured a Papal decree annulling the former marriage, so that Rowena became Mrs. Athelstane
with a clear conscience. And who shall be surprised, if she was happier with the stupid and
boozy Thane than with the gentle and melancholy Wilfrid? Did women never have a predilection
for fools, I should like to know; or fall in love with donkeys, before the time of the amours
of Bottom and Titania? Ah! Mary, had you not preferred an ass to a man, would you have married
Jack Bray, when a Michael Angelo offered? Ah! Fanny, were you not a woman, would you persist
in adoring Tom Hiccups, who beats you, and comes home tipsy from the Club? Yes, Rowena cared
a hundred times more about tipsy Athelstane than ever she had done for gentle Ivanhoe, and
so great was her infatuation about the former, that she would sit upon his knee in the presence
of all her maidens, and let him smoke his cigars in the very drawing-room.

This is the epitaph she caused to be written by Father Drono (who piqued himself upon his Latinity)
on the stone commemorating the death of her late lord:--

     Hic est Guilfridus, belli dum vixit avidus:
     Cum gladio et lancea, Normania et quoque Francia
     Verbera dura dabat: per Turcos multum equitabat:
     Guilbertum occidit: atque Hierosolyma vidit.
     Heu! nunc sub fossa sunt tanti militis ossa,
     Uxor Athelstani est conjux castissima Thani.

And this is the translation which the doggerel knave Wamba made of the Latin lines:

                 "REQUIESCAT.

     "Under the stone you behold,
     Buried, and coffined, and cold,
     Lieth Sir Wilfrid the Bold.

     "Always he marched in advance,
     Warring in Flanders and France,
     Doughty with sword and with lance.

     "Famous in Saracen fight,
     Rode in his youth the good knight,
     Scattering Paynims in flight.

     "Brian the Templar untrue,
     Fairly in tourney he slew,
     Saw Hierusalem too.

     "Now he is buried and gone,
     Lying beneath the gray stone:
     Where shall you find such a one?

     "Long time his widow deplored,
     Weeping the fate of her lord,
     Sadly cut off by the sword.

     "When she was eased of her pain,
     Came the good Lord Athelstane,
     When her ladyship married again."

Athelstane burst into a loud laugh, when he heard it, at the last line, but Rowena would have
had the fool whipped, had not the Thane interceded; and to him, she said, she could refuse nothing.

CHAPTER IV.

IVANHOE REDIVIVUS.

I trust nobody will suppose, from the events described in the last chapter, that our friend
Ivanhoe is really dead. Because we have given him an epitaph or two and a monument, are these
any reasons that he should be really gone out of the world? No: as in the pantomime, when we
see Clown and Pantaloon lay out Harlequin and cry over him, we are always sure that Master
Harlequin will be up at the next minute alert and shining in his glistening coat; and, after
giving a box on the ears to the pair of them, will be taking a dance with Columbine, or leaping
gayly through the clock-face, or into the three-pair-of-stairs' window:--so Sir Wilfrid, the
Harlequin of our Christmas piece, may be run through a little, or may make believe to be dead,
but will assuredly rise up again when he is wanted, and show himself at the right moment.

The suspicious-looking characters from whom Wamba ran away were no cut-throats and plunderers,
as the poor knave imagined, but no other than Ivanhoe's friend, the hermit, and a reverend
brother of his, who visited the scene of the late battle in order to see if any Christians
still survived there, whom they might shrive and get ready for heaven, or to whom they might
possibly offer the benefit of their skill as leeches. Both were prodigiously learned in the
healing art; and had about them those precious elixirs which so often occur in romances, and
with which patients are so miraculously restored. Abruptly dropping his master's head from
his lap as he fled, poor Wamba caused the knight's pate to fall with rather a heavy thump to
the ground, and if the knave had but stayed a minute longer, he would have heard Sir Wilfrid
utter a deep groan. But though the fool heard him not, the holy hermits did; and to recognize
the gallant Wilfrid, to withdraw the enormous dagger still sticking out of his back, to wash
the wound with a portion of the precious elixir, and to pour a little of it down his throat,
was with the excellent hermits the work of an instant: which remedies being applied, one of
the good men took the knight by the heels and the other by the head, and bore him daintily
from the castle to their hermitage in a neighboring rock. As for the Count of Chalus, and the
remainder of the slain, the hermits were too much occupied with Ivanhoe's case to mind them,
and did not, it appears, give them any elixir: so that, if they are really dead, they must
stay on the rampart stark and cold; or if otherwise, when the scene closes upon them as it
does now, they may get up, shake themselves, go to the slips and drink a pot of porter, or
change their stage-clothes and go home to supper. My dear readers, you may settle the matter
among yourselves as you like. If you wish to kill the characters really off, let them be dead,
and have done with them: but, entre nous, I don't believe they are any more dead than you or
I are, and sometimes doubt whether there is a single syllable of truth in this whole story.

Well, Ivanhoe was taken to the hermits' cell, and there doctored by the holy fathers for his
hurts; which were of such a severe and dangerous order, that he was under medical treatment
for a very considerable time. When he woke up from his delirium, and asked how long he had
been ill, fancy his astonishment when he heard that he had been in the fever for six years!
He thought the reverend fathers were joking at first, but their profession forbade them from
that sort of levity; and besides, he could not possibly have got well any sooner, because the
story would have been sadly put out had he appeared earlier. And it proves how good the fathers
were to him, and how very nearly that scoundrel of a Roger de Backbite's dagger had finished
him, that he did not get well under this great length of time; during the whole of which the
fathers tended him without ever thinking of a fee. I know of a kind physician in this town
who does as much sometimes; but I won't do him the ill service of mentioning his name here.

Ivanhoe, being now quickly pronounced well, trimmed his beard, which by this time hung down
considerably below his knees, and calling for his suit of chain-armor, which before had fitted
his elegant person as tight as wax, now put it on, and it bagged and hung so loosely about
him, that even the good friars laughed at his absurd appearance. It was impossible that he
should go about the country in such a garb as that: the very boys would laugh at him: so the
friars gave him one of their old gowns, in which he disguised himself, and after taking an
affectionate farewell of his friends, set forth on his return to his native country. As he
went along, he learned that Richard was dead, that John reigned, that Prince Arthur had been
poisoned, and was of course made acquainted with various other facts of public importance recorded
in Pinnock's Catechism and the Historic Page.

But these subjects did not interest him near so much as his own private affairs; and I can
fancy that his legs trembled under him, and his pilgrim's staff shook with emotion, as at length,
after many perils, he came in sight of his paternal mansion of Rotherwood, and saw once more
the chimneys smoking, the shadows of the oaks over the grass in the sunset, and the rooks winging
over the trees. He heard the supper gong sounding: he knew his way to the door well enough;
he entered the familiar hall with a benedicite, and without any more words took his place.

*****

You might have thought for a moment that the gray friar trembled and his shrunken cheek looked
deadly pale; but he recovered himself presently: nor could you see his pallor for the cowl
which covered his face.

A little boy was playing on Athelstane's knee; Rowena smiling and patting the Saxon Thane fondly
on his broad bullhead, filled him a huge cup of spiced wine from a golden jug. He drained a
quart of the liquor, and, turning round, addressed the friar:--

"And so, gray frere, thou sawest good King Richard fall at Chalus by the bolt of that felon
bowman?"

"We did, an it please you. The brothers of our house attended the good King in his last moments:
in truth, he made a Christian ending!"

"And didst thou see the archer flayed alive? It must have been rare sport," roared Athelstane,
laughing hugely at the joke. "How the fellow must have howled!"

"My love!" said Rowena, interposing tenderly, and putting a pretty white finger on his lip.

"I would have liked to see it too," cried the boy.

"That's my own little Cedric, and so thou shalt. And, friar, didst see my poor kinsman Sir
Wilfrid of Ivanhoe? They say he fought well at Chalus!"

"My sweet lord," again interposed Rowena, "mention him not."

"Why? Because thou and he were so tender in days of yore--when you could not bear my plain
face, being all in love with his pale one?"

"Those times are past now, dear Athelstane," said his affectionate wife, looking up to the ceiling.

"Marry, thou never couldst forgive him the Jewess, Rowena."

"The odious hussy! don't mention the name of the unbelieving creature," exclaimed the lady.

"Well, well, poor Wil was a good lad--a thought melancholy and milksop though. Why, a pint
of sack fuddled his poor brains."

"Sir Wilfrid of Ivanhoe was a good lance," said the friar. "I have heard there was none better
in Christendom. He lay in our convent after his wounds, and it was there we tended him till
he died. He was buried in our north cloister."

"And there's an end of him," said Athelstane. "But come, this is dismal talk. Where's Wamba
the Jester? Let us have a song. Stir up, Wamba, and don't lie like a dog in the fire! Sing
us a song, thou crack-brained jester, and leave off whimpering for bygones. Tush, man! There
be many good fellows left in this world."

"There be buzzards in eagles' nests," Wamba said, who was lying stretched before the fire,
sharing the hearth with the Thane's dogs. "There be dead men alive, and live men dead. There
be merry songs and dismal songs. Marry, and the merriest are the saddest sometimes. I will
leave off motley and wear black, gossip Athelstane. I will turn howler at funerals, and then,
perhaps, I shall be merry. Motley is fit for mutes, and black for fools. Give me some drink,
gossip, for my voice is as cracked as my brain."

"Drink and sing, thou beast, and cease prating," the Thane said.

And Wamba, touching his rebeck wildly, sat up in the chimney-side and curled his lean shanks
together and began:--

                 "LOVE AT TWO SCORE.

          "Ho! pretty page, with dimpled chin,
             That never has known the barber's shear,
          All your aim is woman to win--
          This is the way that boys begin--
            Wait till you've come to forty year!

          "Curly gold locks cover foolish brains,
             Billing and cooing is all your cheer,
           Sighing and singing of midnight strains
           Under Bonnybells' window-panes.
             Wait till you've come to forty year!

          "Forty times over let Michaelmas pass,
             Grizzling hair the brain doth clear;
           Then you know a boy is an ass,
           Then you know the worth of a lass,
             Once you have come to forty year.

          "Pledge me round, I bid ye declare,
             All good fellows whose beards are gray:
           Did not the fairest of the fair
           Common grow, and wearisome, ere
             Ever a month was passed away?

          "The reddest lips that ever have kissed,
             The brightest eyes that ever have shone,
           May pray and whisper and we not list,
           Or look away and never be missed,
             Ere yet ever a month was gone.

          "Gillian's dead, Heaven rest her bier,
             How I loved her twenty years syne!
           Marian's married, but I sit here,
           Alive and merry at forty year,
             Dipping my nose in the Gascon wine."

"Who taught thee that merry lay, Wamba, thou son of Witless?" roared Athelstane, clattering
his cup on the table and shouting the chorus.

"It was a good and holy hermit, sir, the pious clerk of Copmanhurst, that you wot of, who played
many a prank with us in the days that we knew King Richard. Ah, noble sir, that was a jovial
time and a good priest."

"They say the holy priest is sure of the next bishopric, my love," said Rowena. "His Majesty
hath taken him into much favor. My Lord of Huntingdon looked very well at the last ball; but
I never could see any beauty in the Countess--a freckled, blowsy thing, whom they used to call
Maid Marian: though, for the matter of that, what between her flirtations with Major Littlejohn
and Captain Scarlett, really--"

"Jealous again--haw! haw!" laughed Athelstane.

"I am above jealousy, and scorn it," Rowena answered, drawing herself up very majestically.

"Well, well, Wamba's was a good song," Athelstane said.

"Nay, a wicked song," said Rowena, turning up her eyes as usual. "What! rail at woman's love?
Prefer a filthy wine cup to a true wife? Woman's love is eternal, my Athelstane. He who questions
it would be a blasphemer were he not a fool. The well-born and well-nurtured gentlewoman loves
once and once only."

"I pray you, madam, pardon me, I--I am not well," said the gray friar, rising abruptly from
his settle, and tottering down the steps of the dais. Wamba sprung after him, his bells jingling
as he rose, and casting his arms around the apparently fainting man, he led him away into the
court. "There be dead men alive and live men dead," whispered he. "There be coffins to laugh
at and marriages to cry over. Said I not sooth, holy friar?" And when they had got out into
the solitary court, which was deserted by all the followers of the Thane, who were mingling
in the drunken revelry in the hall, Wamba, seeing that none were by, knelt down, and kissing
the friar's garment, said, "I knew thee, I knew thee, my lord and my liege!"

"Get up," said Wilfrid of Ivanhoe, scarcely able to articulate: "only fools are faithful."

And he passed on, and into the little chapel where his father lay buried. All night long the
friar spent there: and Wamba the Jester lay outside watching as mute as the saint over the porch.

When the morning came, Wumba was gone; and the knave being in the habit of wandering hither
and thither as he chose, little notice was taken of his absence by a master and mistress who
had not much sense of humor. As for Sir Wilfrid, a gentleman of his delicacy of feelings could
not be expected to remain in a house where things so naturally disagreeable to him were occurring,
and he quitted Rotherwood incontinently, after paying a dutiful visit to the tomb where his
old father, Cedric, was buried; and hastened on to York, at which city he made himself known
to the family attorney, a most respectable man, in whose hands his ready money was deposited,
and took up a sum sufficient to fit himself out with credit, and a handsome retinue, as became
a knight of consideration. But he changed his name, wore a wig and spectacles, and disguised
himself entirely, so that it was impossible his friends or the public should know him, and
thus metamorphosed, went about whithersoever his fancy led him. He was present at a public
ball at York, which the lord mayor gave, danced Sir Roger de Coverley in the very same set
with Rowena--(who was disgusted that Maid Marian took precedence of her)--he saw little Athelstane
overeat himself at the supper and pledge his big father in a cup of sack; he met the Reverend
Mr. Tuck at a missionary meeting, where he seconded a resolution proposed by that eminent divine;--in
fine, he saw a score of his old acquaintances, none of whom recognized in him the warrior of
Palestine and Templestowe. Having a large fortune and nothing to do, he went about this country
performing charities, slaying robbers, rescuing the distressed, and achieving noble feats of
arms. Dragons and giants existed in his day no more, or be sure he would have had a fling at
them: for the truth is, Sir Wilfrid of Ivanhoe was somewhat sick of the life which the hermits
of Chalus had restored to him, and felt himself so friendless and solitary that he would not
have been sorry to come to an end of it. Ah, my dear friends and intelligent British public,
are there not others who are melancholy under a mask of gayety, and who, in the midst of crowds,
are lonely? Liston was a most melancholy man; Grimaldi had feelings; and there are others I
wot of:--but psha!--let us have the next chapter.

CHAPTER V.

IVANHOE TO THE RESCUE.

The rascally manner in which the chicken-livered successor of Richard of the Lion-heart conducted
himself to all parties, to his relatives, his nobles, and his people, is a matter notorious,
and set forth clearly in the Historic Page: hence, although nothing, except perhaps success,
can, in my opinion, excuse disaffection to the sovereign, or appearance in armed rebellion
against him, the loyal reader will make allowance for two of the principal personages of this
narrative, who will have to appear in the present chapter in the odious character of rebels
to their lord and king. It must be remembered, in partial exculpation of the fault of Athelstane
and Rowena, (a fault for which they were bitterly punished, as you shall presently hear,) that
the monarch exasperated his subjects in a variety of ways,--that before he murdered his royal
nephew, Prince Arthur, there was a great question whether he was the rightful king of England
at all,--that his behavior as an uncle, and a family man, was likely to wound the feelings
of any lady and mother,--finally, that there were palliations for the conduct of Rowena and
Ivanhoe, which it now becomes our duty to relate.

When his Majesty destroyed Prince Arthur, the Lady Rowena, who was one of the ladies of honor
to the Queen, gave up her place at court at once, and retired to her castle of Rotherwood.
Expressions made use of by her, and derogatory to the character of the sovereign, were carried
to the monarch's ears, by some of those parasites, doubtless, by whom it is the curse of kings
to be attended; and John swore, by St. Peter's teeth, that he would be revenged upon the haughty
Saxon lady,--a kind of oath which, though he did not trouble himself about all other oaths,
he was never known to break. It was not for some years after he had registered this vow, that
he was enabled to keep it.

Had Ivanhoe been present at Ronen, when the King meditated his horrid designs against his nephew,
there is little doubt that Sir Wilfrid would have prevented them, and rescued the boy: for
Ivanhoe was, as we need scarcely say, a hero of romance; and it is the custom and duty of all
gentlemen of that profession to be present on all occasions of historic interest, to be engaged
in all conspiracies, royal interviews, and remarkable occurrences: and hence Sir Wilfrid would
certainly have rescued the young Prince, had he been anywhere in the neighborhood of Rouen,
where the foul tragedy occurred. But he was a couple of hundred leagues off, at Chalus, when
the circumstance happened; tied down in his bed as crazy as a Bedlamite, and raving ceaselessly
in the Hebrew tongue (which he had caught up during a previous illness in which he was tended
by a maiden of that nation) about a certain Rebecca Ben Isaacs, of whom, being a married man,
he never would have thought, had he been in his sound senses. During this delirium, what were
politics to him, or he to politics? King John or King Arthur was entirely indifferent to a
man who announced to his nurse-tenders, the good hermits of Chalus before mentioned, that he
was the Marquis of Jericho, and about to marry Rebecca the Queen of Sheba. In a word, he only
heard of what had occurred when he reached England, and his senses were restored to him. Whether
was he happier, sound of brain and entirely miserable, (as any man would be who found so admirable
a wife as Rowena married again,) or perfectly crazy, the husband of the beautiful Rebecca?
I don't know which he liked best.

Howbeit the conduct of King John inspired Sir Wilfrid with so thorough a detestation of that
sovereign, that he never could be brought to take service under him; to get himself presented
at St. James's, or in any way to acknowledge, but by stern acquiescence, the authority of the
sanguinary successor of his beloved King Richard. It was Sir Wilfrid of Ivanhoe, I need scarcely
say, who got the Barons of England to league together and extort from the king that famous
instrument and palladium of our liberties at present in the British Museum, Great Russell Street,
Bloomsbury--the Magna Charta. His name does not naturally appear in the list of Barons, because
he was only a knight, and a knight in disguise too: nor does Athelstane's signature figure
on that document. Athelstane, in the first place, could not write; nor did he care a pennypiece
about politics, so long as he could drink his wine at home undisturbed, and have his hunting
and shooting in quiet.

It was not until the King wanted to interfere with the sport of every gentleman in England
(as we know by reference to the Historic Page that this odious monarch did), that Athelstane
broke out into open rebellion, along with several Yorkshire squires and noblemen. It is recorded
of the King, that he forbade every man to hunt his own deer; and, in order to secure an obedience
to his orders, this Herod of a monarch wanted to secure the eldest sons of all the nobility
and gentry, as hostages for the good behavior of their parents.

Athelstane was anxious about his game--Rowena was anxious about her son. The former swore that
he would hunt his deer in spite of all Norman tyrants--the latter asked, should she give up
her boy to the ruffian who had murdered his own nephew?* The speeches of both were brought
to the King at York; and, furious, he ordered an instant attack upon Rotherwood, and that the
lord and lady of that castle should be brought before him dead or alive.

     *See Hume, Giraldus Cambrensis, The Monk of Croyland, and
     Pinnock's Catechism.

Ah, where was Wilfrid of Ivanhoe, the unconquerable champion, to defend the castle against
the royal party? A few thrusts from his lance would have spitted the leading warriors of the
King's host: a few cuts from his sword would have put John's forces to rout. But the lance
and sword of Ivanhoe were idle on this occasion. "No, be hanged to me!" said the knight, bitterly,
"THIS is a quarrel in which I can't interfere. Common politeness forbids. Let yonder ale-swilling
Athelstane defend his--ha, ha--WIFE; and my Lady Rowena guard her--ha, ha, ha--SON." And he
laughed wildly and madly; and the sarcastic, way in which he choked and gurgled out the words
"wife" and "son" would have made you shudder to hear.

When he heard, however, that, on the fourth day of the siege, Athelstane had been slain by
a cannon-ball, (and this time for good, and not to come to life again as he had done before,)
and that the widow (if so the innocent bigamist may be called) was conducting the defence of
Rotherwood herself with the greatest intrepidity, showing herself upon the walls with her little
son, (who bellowed like a bull, and did not like the fighting at all,) pointing the guns and
encouraging the garrison in every way--better feelings returned to the bosom of the Knight
of Ivanhoe, and summoning his men, he armed himself quickly and determined to go forth to the
rescue.

He rode without stopping for two days and two nights in the direction of Rotherwood, with such
swiftness and disregard for refreshment, indeed, that his men dropped one by one upon the road,
and he arrived alone at the lodge-gate of the park. The windows were smashed; the door stove
in; the lodge, a neat little Swiss cottage, with a garden where the pinafores of Mrs. Gurth's
children might have been seen hanging on the gooseberry-bushes in more peaceful times, was
now a ghastly heap of smoking ruins: cottage, bushes, pinafores, children lay mangled together,
destroyed by the licentious soldiery of an infuriate monarch! Far be it from me to excuse the
disobedience of Athelstane and Rowena to their sovereign; but surely, surely this cruelty might
have been spared.

Gurth, who was lodge-keeper, was lying dreadfully wounded and expiring at the flaming and violated
threshold of his lately picturesque home. A catapult and a couple of mangonels had done his
business. The faithful fellow, recognizing his master, who had put up his visor and forgotten
his wig and spectacles in the agitation of the moment, exclaimed, "Sir Wilfrid! my dear master--praised
be St. Waltheof--there may be yet time--my beloved mistr--master Athelst . . ." He sank back,
and never spoke again.

Ivanhoe spurred on his horse Bavieca madly up the chestnut avenue. The castle was before him;
the western tower was in flames; the besiegers were pressing at the southern gate; Athelstane's
banner, the bull rampant, was still on the northern bartizan. "An Ivanhoe, an Ivanhoe!" he
bellowed out, with a shout that overcame all the din of battle: "Nostre Dame a la rescousse!"
And to hurl his lance through the midriff of Reginald de Bracy, who was commanding the assault--who
fell howling with anguish--to wave his battle-axe over his own head, and cut off those of thirteen
men-at-arms, was the work of an instant. "An Ivanhoe, an Ivanhoe!" he still shouted, and down
went a man as sure as he said "hoe!"

"Ivanhoe! Ivanhoe!" a shrill voice cried from the top of the northern bartizan. Ivanhoe knew it.

"Rowena my love, I come!" he roared on his part. "Villains! touch but a hair of her head, and
I . . ."

Here, with a sudden plunge and a squeal of agony, Bavieca sprang forward wildly, and fell as
wildly on her back, rolling over and over upon the knight. All was dark before him; his brain
reeled; it whizzed; something came crashing down on his forehead. St. Waltheof and all the
saints of the Saxon calendar protect the knight! . . .

When he came to himself, Wamba and the lieutenant of his lances were leaning over him with
a bottle of the hermit's elixir. "We arrived here the day after the battle," said the fool;
"marry, I have a knack of that."

"Your worship rode so deucedly quick, there was no keeping up with your worship," said the
lieutenant.

"The day--after--the bat--" groaned Ivanhoe. "Where is the Lady Rowena?"

"The castle has been taken and sacked," the lieutenant said, and pointed to what once WAS Rotherwood,
but was now only a heap of smoking ruins. Not a tower was left, not a roof, not a floor, not
a single human being! Everything was flame and ruin, smash and murther!

Of course Ivanhoe fell back fainting again among the ninety-seven men-at-arms whom he had slain;
and it was not until Wamba had applied a second, and uncommonly strong dose of the elixir that
he came to life again. The good knight was, however, from long practice, so accustomed to the
severest wounds, that he bore them far more easily than common folk, and thus was enabled to
reach York upon a litter, which his men constructed for him, with tolerable ease.

Rumor had as usual advanced before him; and he heard at the hotel where he stopped, what had
been the issue of the affair at Rotherwood. A minute or two after his horse was stabbed, and
Ivanhoe knocked down, the western bartizan was taken by the storming-party which invested it,
and every soul slain, except Rowena and her boy; who were tied upon horses and carried away,
under a secure guard, to one of the King's castles--nobody knew whither: and Ivanhoe was recommended
by the hotel-keeper (whose house he had used in former times) to reassume his wig and spectacles,
and not call himself by his own name any more, lest some of the King's people should lay hands
on him. However, as he had killed everybody round about him, there was but little danger of
his discovery; and the Knight of the Spectacles, as he was called, went about York quite unmolested,
and at liberty to attend to his own affairs.

We wish to be brief in narrating this part of the gallant hero's existence; for his life was
one of feeling rather than affection, and the description of mere sentiment is considered by
many well-informed persons to be tedious. What WERE his sentiments now, it may be asked, under
the peculiar position in which he found himself? He had done his duty by Rowena, certainly:
no man could say otherwise. But as for being in love with her any more, after what had occurred,
that was a different question. Well, come what would, he was determined still to continue doing
his duty by her;--but as she was whisked away the deuce knew whither, how could he do anything?
So he resigned himself to the fact that she was thus whisked away.

He, of course, sent emissaries about the country to endeavor to find out where Rowena was:
but these came back without any sort of intelligence; and it was remarked, that he still remained
in a perfect state of resignation. He remained in this condition for a year, or more; and it
was said that he was becoming more cheerful, and he certainly was growing rather fat. The Knight
of the Spectacles was voted an agreeable man in a grave way; and gave some very elegant, though
quiet, parties, and was received in the best society of York.

It was just at assize-time, the lawyers and barristers had arrived, and the town was unusually
gay; when, one morning, the attorney, whom we have mentioned as Sir Wilfrid's man of business,
and a most respectable man, called upon his gallant client at his lodgings, and said he had
a communication of importance to make. Having to communicate with a client of rank, who was
condemned to be hanged for forgery, Sir Roger de Backbite, the attorney said, he had been to
visit that party in the condemned cell; and on the way through the yard, and through the bars
of another cell, had seen and recognized an old acquaintance of Sir Wilfrid of Ivanhoe--and
the lawyer held him out, with a particular look, a note, written on a piece of whity-brown paper.

What were Ivanhoe's sensations when he recognized the handwriting of Rowena!--he tremblingly
dashed open the billet, and read as follows:--

"MY DEAREST IVANHOE,--For I am thine now as erst, and my first love was ever--ever dear to
me. Have I been near thee dying for a whole year, and didst thou make no effort to rescue thy
Rowena? Have ye given to others--I mention not their name nor their odious creed--the heart
that ought to be mine? I send thee my forgiveness from my dying pallet of straw.--I forgive
thee the insults I have received, the cold and hunger I have endured, the failing health of
my boy, the bitterness of my prison, thy infatuation about that Jewess, which made our married
life miserable, and which caused thee, I am sure, to go abroad to look after her. I forgive
thee all my wrongs, and fain would bid thee farewell. Mr. Smith hath gained over my gaoler--he
will tell thee how I may see thee. Come and console my last hour by promising that thou wilt
care for my boy--HIS boy who fell like a hero (when thou wert absent) combating by the side
of ROWENA."

The reader may consult his own feelings, and say whether Ivanhoe was likely to be pleased or
not by this letter: however, he inquired of Mr. Smith, the solicitor, what was the plan which
that gentleman had devised for the introduction to Lady Rowena, and was informed that he was
to get a barrister's gown and wig, when the gaoler would introduce him into the interior of
the prison. These decorations, knowing several gentlemen of the Northern Circuit, Sir Wilfrid
of Ivanhoe easily procured, and with feelings of no small trepidation, reached the cell, where,
for the space of a year, poor Rowena had been immured.

If any person have a doubt of the correctness, of the historical exactness of this narrative,
I refer him to the "Biographie Universelle" (article Jean sans Terre), which says, "La femme
d'un baron auquel on vint demander son fils, repondit, 'Le roi pense-t-il que je confierai
mon fils a un homme qui a egorge son neveu de sa propre main?' Jean fit enlever la mere et
l'enfant, et la laissa MOURIR DE FAIM dans les cachots."

I picture to myself, with a painful sympathy, Rowena undergoing this disagreeable sentence.
All her virtues, her resolution, her chaste energy and perseverance, shine with redoubled lustre,
and, for the first time since the commencement of the history, I feel that I am partially reconciled
to her. The weary year passes--she grows weaker and more languid, thinner and thinner! At length
Ivanhoe, in the disguise of a barrister of the Northern Circuit, is introduced to her cell,
and finds his lady in the last stage of exhaustion, on the straw of her dungeon, with her little
boy in her arms. She has preserved his life at the expense of her own, giving him the whole
of the pittance which her gaolers allowed her, and perishing herself of inanition.

There is a scene! I feel as if I had made it up, as it were, with this lady, and that we part
in peace, in consequence of my providing her with so sublime a death-bed. Fancy Ivanhoe's entrance--their
recognition--the faint blush upon her worn features--the pathetic way in which she gives little
Cedric in charge to him, and his promises of protection.

"Wilfrid, my early loved," slowly gasped she, removing her gray hair from her furrowed temples,
and gazing on her boy fondly, as he nestled on Ivanhoe's knee--"promise me, by St. Waltheof
of Templestowe--promise me one boon!"

"I do," said Ivanhoe, clasping the boy, and thinking it was to that little innocent the promise
was intended to apply.

"By St. Waltheof?"

"By St. Waltheof!"

"Promise me, then," gasped Rowena, staring wildly at him, "that you never will marry a Jewess?"

"By St. Waltheof," cried Ivanhoe, "this is too much, Rowena!"--But he felt his hand grasped
for a moment, the nerves then relaxed, the pale lips ceased to quiver--she was no more!

CHAPTER VI.

IVANHOE THE WIDOWER.

Having placed young Cedric at school at the hall of Dotheboyes, in Yorkshire, and arranged
his family affairs, Sir Wilfrid of Ivanhoe quitted a country which had no longer any charms
for him, and in which his stay was rendered the less agreeable by the notion that King John
would hang him, if ever he could lay hands on the faithful follower of King Richard and Prince
Arthur.

But there was always in those days a home and occupation for a brave and pious knight. A saddle
on a gallant war-horse, a pitched field against the Moors, a lance wherewith to spit a turbaned
infidel, or a road to Paradise carved out by his scimitar,--these were the height of the ambition
of good and religious warriors; and so renowned a champion as Sir Wilfrid of Ivanhoe was sure
to be well received wherever blows were stricken for the cause of Christendom. Even among the
dark Templars, he who had twice overcome the most famous lance of their Order was a respected
though not a welcome guest: but among the opposition company of the Knights of St. John, he
was admired and courted beyond measure; and always affectioning that Order, which offered him,
indeed, its first rank and commanderies, he did much good service; fighting in their ranks
for the glory of heaven and St. Waltheof, and slaying many thousands of the heathen in Prussia,
Poland, and those savage Northern countries. The only fault that the great and gallant, though
severe and ascetic Folko of Heydenbraten, the chief of the Order of St. John, found with the
melancholy warrior, whose lance did such good service to the cause, was, that he did not persecute
the Jews as so religious a knight should. He let off sundry captives of that persuasion whom
he had taken with his sword and his spear, saved others from torture, and actually ransomed
the two last grinders of a venerable rabbi (that Roger de Cartright, an English knight of the
Order, was about to extort from the elderly Israelite,) with a hundred crowns and a gimmal
ring, which were all the property he possessed. Whenever he so ransomed or benefited one of
this religion, he would moreover give them a little token or a message (were the good knight
out of money), saying, "Take this token, and remember this deed was done by Wilfrid the Disinherited,
for the services whilome rendered to him by Rebecca, the daughter of Isaac of York!" So among
themselves, and in their meetings and synagogues, and in their restless travels from land to
land, when they of Jewry cursed and reviled all Christians, as such abominable heathens will,
they nevertheless excepted the name of the Desdichado, or the doubly-disinherited as he now
was, the Desdichado-Doblado.

The account of all the battles, storms, and scaladoes in which Sir Wilfrid took part, would
only weary the reader; for the chopping off one heathen's head with an axe must be very like
the decapitation of any other unbeliever. Suffice it to say, that wherever this kind of work
was to be done, and Sir Wilfrid was in the way, he was the man to perform it. It would astonish
you were you to see the account that Wamba kept of his master's achievements, and of the Bulgarians,
Bohemians, Croatians, slain or maimed by his hand. And as, in those days, a reputation for
valor had an immense effect upon the soft hearts of women, and even the ugliest man, were he
a stout warrior, was looked upon with favor by Beauty: so Ivanhoe, who was by no means ill-favored,
though now becoming rather elderly, made conquests over female breasts as well as over Saracens,
and had more than one direct offer of marriage made to him by princesses, countesses, and noble
ladies possessing both charms and money, which they were anxious to place at the disposal of
a champion so renowned. It is related that the Duchess Regent of Kartoffelberg offered him
her hand, and the ducal crown of Kartoffelberg, which he had rescued from the unbelieving Prussians;
but Ivanhoe evaded the Duchess's offer, by riding away from her capital secretly at midnight
and hiding himself in a convent of Knights Hospitallers on the borders of Poland. And it is
a fact that the Princess Rosalia Seraphina of Pumpernickel, the most lovely woman of her time,
became so frantically attached to him, that she followed him on a campaign, and was discovered
with his baggage disguised as a horse-boy. But no princess, no beauty, no female blandishments
had any charms for Ivanhoe: no hermit practised a more austere celibacy. The severity of his
morals contrasted so remarkably with the lax and dissolute manner of the young lords and nobles
in the courts which he frequented, that these young springalds would sometimes sneer and call
him Monk and Milksop; but his courage in the day of battle was so terrible and admirable, that
I promise you the youthful libertines did not sneer THEN; and the most reckless of them often
turned pale when they couched their lances to follow Ivanhoe. Holy Waltheof! it was an awful
sight to see him with his pale calm face, his shield upon his breast, his heavy lance before
him, charging a squadron of heathen Bohemians, or a regiment of Cossacks! Wherever he saw the
enemy, Ivanhoe assaulted him: and when people remonstrated with him, and said if he attacked
such and such a post, breach, castle, or army, he would be slain, "And suppose I be?" he answered,
giving them to understand that he would as lief the Battle of Life were over altogether.

While he was thus making war against the Northern infidels news was carried all over Christendom
of a catastrophe which had befallen the good cause in the South of Europe, where the Spanish
Christians had met with such a defeat and massacre at the hands of the Moors as had never been
known in the proudest day of Saladin.

Thursday, the 9th of Shaban, in the 605th year of the Hejira, is known all over the West as
the amun-al-ark, the year of the battle of Alarcos, gained over the Christians by the Moslems
of Andaluz, on which fatal day Christendom suffered a defeat so signal, that it was feared
the Spanish peninsula would be entirely wrested away from the dominion of the Cross. On that
day the Franks lost 150,000 men and 30,000 prisoners. A man-slave sold among the unbelievers
for a dirhem; a donkey for the same; a sword, half a dirhem; a horse, five dirhems. Hundreds
of thousands of these various sorts of booty were in the possession of the triumphant followers
of Yakoobal-Mansoor. Curses on his head! But he was a brave warrior, and the Christians before
him seemed to forget that they were the descendants of the brave Cid, the Kanbitoor, as the
Moorish hounds (in their jargon) denominated the famous Campeador.

A general move for the rescue of the faithful in Spain--a crusade against the infidels triumphing
there, was preached throughout Europe by all the most eloquent clergy; and thousands and thousands
of valorous knights and nobles, accompanied by well-meaning varlets and vassals of the lower
sort, trooped from all sides to the rescue. The Straits of Gibel-al-Tariff, at which spot the
Moor, passing from Barbary, first planted his accursed foot on the Christian soil, were crowded
with the galleys of the Templars and the Knights of St. John, who flung succors into the menaced
kingdoms of the peninsula; the inland sea swarmed with their ships hasting from their forts
and islands, from Rhodes and Byzantium, from Jaffa and Ascalon. The Pyrenean peaks beheld the
pennons and glittered with the armor of the knights marching out of France into Spain; and,
finally, in a ship that set sail direct from Bohemia, where Sir Wilfrid happened to be quartered
at the time when the news of the defeat of Alarcos came and alarmed all good Christians, Ivanhoe
landed at Barcelona, and proceeded to slaughter the Moors forthwith.

He brought letters of introduction from his friend Folko of Heydenbraten, the Grand Master
of the Knights of Saint John, to the venerable Baldomero de Garbanzos, Grand Master of the
renowned order of Saint Jago. The chief of Saint Jago's knights paid the greatest respect to
a warrior whose fame was already so widely known in Christendom; and Ivanhoe had the pleasure
of being appointed to all the posts of danger and forlorn hopes that could be devised in his
honor. He would be called up twice or thrice in a night to fight the Moors: he led ambushes,
scaled breaches, was blown up by mines; was wounded many hundred times (recovering, thanks
to the elixir, of which Wamba always carried a supply); he was the terror of the Saracens,
and the admiration and wonder of the Christians.

To describe his deeds, would, I say, be tedious; one day's battle was like that of another.
I am not writing in ten volumes like Monsieur Alexandre Dumas, or even in three like other
great authors. We have no room for the recounting of Sir Wilfrid's deeds of valor. Whenever
he took a Moorish town, it was remarked, that he went anxiously into the Jewish quarter, and
inquired amongst the Hebrews, who were in great numbers in Spain, for Rebecca, the daughter
of Isaac. Many Jews, according to his wont, he ransomed, and created so much scandal by this
proceeding, and by the manifest favor which he showed to the people of that nation, that the
Master of Saint Jago remonstrated with him, and it is probable he would have been cast into
the Inquisition and roasted, but that his prodigious valor and success against the Moors counterbalanced
his heretical partiality for the children of Jacob.

It chanced that the good knight was present at the siege of Xixona in Andalusia, entering the
breach first, according to his wont, and slaying, with his own hand, the Moorish lieutenant
of the town, and several hundred more of its unbelieving defenders. He had very nearly done
for the Alfaqui, or governor--a veteran warrior with a crooked scimitar and a beard as white
as snow--but a couple of hundred of the Alfaqui's bodyguard flung themselves between Ivanhoe
and their chief, and the old fellow escaped with his life, leaving a handful of his beard in
the grasp of the English knight. The strictly military business being done, and such of the
garrison as did not escape put, as by right, to the sword, the good knight, Sir Wilfrid of
Ivanhoe, took no further part in the proceedings of the conquerors of that ill-fated place.
A scene of horrible massacre and frightful reprisals ensued, and the Christian warriors, hot
with victory and flushed with slaughter, were, it is to be feared, as savage in their hour
of triumph as ever their heathen enemies had been.

Among the most violent and least scrupulous was the ferocious Knight of Saint Jago, Don Beltran
de Cuchilla y Trabuco y Espada y Espelon. Raging through the vanquished city like a demon,
he slaughtered indiscriminately all those infidels of both sexes whose wealth did not tempt
him to a ransom, or whose beauty did not reserve them for more frightful calamities than death.
The slaughter over, Don Beltran took up his quarters in the Albaycen, where the Alfaqui had
lived who had so narrowly escaped the sword of Ivanhoe; but the wealth, the treasure, the slaves,
and the family of the fugitive chieftain, were left in possession of the conqueror of Xixona.
Among the treasures, Don Beltran recognized with a savage joy the coat-armors and ornaments
of many brave and unfortunate companions-in-arms who had fallen in the fatal battle of Alarcos.
The sight of those bloody relics added fury to his cruel disposition, and served to steel a
heart already but little disposed to sentiments of mercy.

Three days after the sack and plunder of the place, Don Beltran was seated in the hall-court
lately occupied by the proud Alfaqui, lying in his divan, dressed in his rich robes, the fountains
playing in the centre, the slaves of the Moor ministering to his scarred and rugged Christian
conqueror. Some fanned him with peacocks' pinions, some danced before him, some sang Moor's
melodies to the plaintive notes of a guzla, one--it was the only daughter of the Moor's old
age, the young Zutulbe, a rosebud of beauty--sat weeping in a corner of the gilded hall: weeping
for her slain brethren, the pride of Moslem chivalry, whose heads were blackening in the blazing
sunshine on the portals without, and for her father, whose home had been thus made desolate.

He and his guest, the English knight Sir Wilfrid, were playing at chess, a favorite amusement
with the chivalry of the period, when a messenger was announced from Valencia, to treat, if
possible, for the ransom of the remaining part of the Alfaqui's family. A grim smile lighted
up Don Beltran's features as he bade the black slave admit the messenger. He entered. By his
costume it was at once seen that the bearer of the flag of truce was a Jew--the people were
employed continually then as ambassadors between the two races at war in Spain.

"I come," said the old Jew (in a voice which made Sir Wilfrid start), "from my lord the Alfaqui
to my noble senor, the invincible Don Beltran de Cuchilla, to treat for the ransom of the Moor's
only daughter, the child of his old age and the pearl of his affection."

"A pearl is a valuable jewel, Hebrew. What does the Moorish dog bid for her?" asked Don Beltran,
still smiling grimly.

"The Alfaqui offers 100,000 dinars, twenty-four horses with their caparisons, twenty-four suits
of plate-armor, and diamonds and rubies to the amount of 1,000,000 dinars."

"Ho, slaves!" roared Don Beltran, "show the Jew my treasury of gold. How many hundred thousand
pieces are there?" And ten enormous chests were produced in which the accountant counted 1,000
bags of 1,000 dirhems each, and displayed several caskets of jewels containing such a treasure
of rubies, smaragds, diamonds, and jacinths, as made the eyes of the aged ambassador twinkle
with avarice.

"How many horses are there in my stable?" continued Don Beltran; and Muley, the master of the
horse, numbered three hundred fully caparisoned; and there was, likewise, armor of the richest
sort for as many cavaliers, who followed the banner of this doughty captain.

"I want neither money nor armor," said the ferocious knight; "tell this to the Alfaqui, Jew.
And I will keep the child, his daughter, to serve the messes for my dogs, and clean the platters
for my scullions."

"Deprive not the old man of his child," here interposed the Knight of Ivanhoe; "bethink thee,
brave Don Beltran, she is but an infant in years."

"She is my captive, Sir Knight," replied the surly Don Beltran; "I will do with my own as becomes
me."

"Take 200,000 dirhems," cried the Jew; "more!--anything! The Alfaqui will give his life for
his child!"

"Come hither, Zutulbe!--come hither, thou Moorish pearl!" yelled the ferocious warrior; "come
closer, my pretty black-eyed houri of heathenesse! Hast heard the name of Beltran de Espada
y Trabuco?"

"There were three brothers of that name at Alarcos, and my brothers slew the Christian dogs!"
said the proud young girl, looking boldly at Don Beltran, who foamed with rage.

"The Moors butchered my mother and her little ones, at midnight, in our castle of Murcia,"
Beltran said.

"Thy father fled like a craven, as thou didst, Don Beltran!" cried the high-spirited girl.

"By Saint Jago, this is too much!" screamed the infuriated nobleman; and the next moment there
was a shriek, and the maiden fell to the ground with Don Beltran's dagger in her side.

"Death is better than dishonor!" cried the child, rolling on the blood-stained marble pavement.
"I--I spit upon thee, dog of a Christian!" and with this, and with a savage laugh, she fell
back and died.

"Bear back this news, Jew, to the Alfaqui," howled the Don, spurning the beauteous corpse with
his foot. "I would not have ransomed her for all the gold in Barbary!" And shuddering, the
old Jew left the apartment, which Ivanhoe quitted likewise.

When they were in the outer court, the knight said to the Jew, "Isaac of York, dost thou not
know me?" and threw back his hood, and looked at the old man.

The old Jew stared wildly, rushed forward as if to seize his hand, then started back, trembling
convulsively, and clutching his withered hands over his face, said, with a burst of grief,
"Sir Wilfrid of Ivanhoe!--no, no!--I do not know thee!"

"Holy mother! what has chanced?" said Ivanhoe, in his turn becoming ghastly pale; "where is
thy daughter--where is Rebecca?"

"Away from me!" said the old Jew, tottering. "Away Rebecca is--dead!"

*****

When the Disinherited Knight heard that fatal announcement, he fell to the ground senseless,
and was for some days as one perfectly distraught with grief. He took no nourishment and uttered
no word. For weeks he did not relapse out of his moody silence, and when he came partially
to himself again, it was to bid his people to horse, in a hollow voice, and to make a foray
against the Moors. Day after day he issued out against these infidels, and did nought but slay
and slay. He took no plunder as other knights did, but left that to his followers; he uttered
no war-cry, as was the manner of chivalry, and he gave no quarter, insomuch that the "silent
knight" became the dread of all the Paynims of Granada and Andalusia, and more fell by his
lance than by that of any the most clamorous captains of the troops in arms against them. Thus
the tide of battle turned, and the Arab historian, El Makary, recounts how, at the great battle
of Al Akab, called by the Spaniards Las Navas, the Christians retrieved their defeat at Alarcos,
and absolutely killed half a milllion of Mahometans. Fifty thousand of these, of course, Don
Wilfrid took to his own lance; and it was remarked that the melancholy warrior seemed somewhat
more easy in spirits after that famous feat of arms.

CHAPTER VII.

THE END OF THE PERFORMANCE.

In a short time the terrible Sir Wilfrid of Ivanhoe had killed off so many of the Moors, that
though those unbelieving miscreants poured continual reinforcements into Spain from Barbary,
they could make no head against the Christian forces, and in fact came into battle quite discouraged
at the notion of meeting the dreadful silent knight. It was commonly believed amongst them,
that the famous Malek Ric, Richard of England, the conqueror of Saladin, had come to life again,
and was battling in the Spanish hosts--that this, his second life, was a charmed one, and his
body inaccessible to blow of scimitar or thrust of spear--that after battle he ate the hearts
and drank the blood of many young Moors for his supper: a thousand wild legends were told of
Ivanhoe, indeed, so that the Morisco warriors came half vanquished into the field, and fell
an easy prey to the Spaniards, who cut away among them without mercy. And although none of
the Spanish historians whom I have consulted make mention of Sir Wilfrid as the real author
of the numerous triumphs which now graced the arms of the good cause, this is not in the least
to be wondered at, in a nation that has always been notorious for bragging, and for the non-payment
of their debts of gratitude as of their other obligations, and that writes histories of the
Peninsular war with the Emperor Napoleon, without making the slightest mention of his Grace
the Duke of Wellington, or of the part taken by BRITISH VALOR in that transaction. Well, it
must be confessed, on the other hand, that we brag enough of our fathers' feats in those campaigns:
but this is not the subject at present under consideration.

To be brief, Ivanhoe made such short work with the unbelievers, that the monarch of Aragon,
King Don Jayme, saw himself speedily enabled to besiege the city of Valencia, the last stronghold
which the Moors had in his dominions, and garrisoned by many thousands of those infidels under
the command of their King Aboo Abdallah Mahommed, son of Yakoobal-Mansoor. The Arabian historian
El Makary gives a full account of the military precautions taken by Aboo Abdallah to defend
his city; but as I do not wish to make a parade of my learning, or to write a costume novel,
I shall pretermit any description of the city under its Moorish governors.

Besides the Turks who inhabited it, there dwelt within its walls great store of those of the
Hebrew nation, who were always protected by the Moors during their unbelieving reign in Spain;
and who were, as we very well know, the chief physicians, the chief bankers, the chief statesmen,
the chief artists and musicians, the chief everything, under the Moorish kings. Thus it is
not surprising that the Hebrews, having their money, their liberty, their teeth, their lives,
secure under the Mahometan domination, should infinitely prefer it to the Christian sway; beneath
which they were liable to be deprived of every one of these benefits.

Among these Hebrews of Valencia, lived a very ancient Israelite--no other than Isaac of York
before mentioned, who came into Spain with his daughter, soon after Ivanhoe's marriage, in
the third volume of the first part of this history. Isaac was respected by his people for the
money which he possessed, and his daughter for her admirable good qualities, her beauty, her
charities, and her remarkable medical skill.

The young Emir Aboo Abdallah was so struck by her charms, that though she was considerably
older than his Highness, he offered to marry her, and install her as Number 1 of his wives;
and Isaac of York would not have objected to the union, (for such mixed marriages were not
uncommon between the Hebrews and Moors in those days,) but Rebecca firmly yet respectfully
declined the proposals of the prince, saying that it was impossible she should unite herself
with a man of a creed different to her own.

Although Isaac was, probably, not over-well pleased at losing this chance of being father-in-law
to a royal highness, yet as he passed among his people for a very strict character, and there
were in his family several rabbis of great reputation and severity of conduct, the old gentleman
was silenced by this objection of Rebecca's, and the young lady herself applauded by her relatives
for her resolute behavior. She took their congratulations in a very frigid manner, and said
that it was her wish not to marry at all, but to devote herself to the practice of medicine
altogether, and to helping the sick and needy of her people. Indeed, although she did not go
to any public meetings, she was as benevolent a creature as the world ever saw: the poor blessed
her wherever they knew her, and many benefited by her who guessed not whence her gentle bounty
came.

But there are men in Jewry who admire beauty, and, as I have even heard, appreciate money too,
and Rebecca had such a quantity of both, that all the most desirable bachelors of the people
were ready to bid for her. Ambassadors came from all quarters to propose for her. Her own uncle,
the venerable Ben Solomons, with a beard as long as a cashmere goat's, and a reputation for
learning and piety which still lives in his nation, quarrelled with his son Moses, the red-haired
diamond-merchant of Trebizond, and his son Simeon, the bald bill-broker of Bagdad, each putting
in a claim for their cousin. Ben Minories came from London and knelt at her feet; Ben Jochanan
arrived from Paris, and thought to dazzle her with the latest waistcoats from the Palais Royal;
and Ben Jonah brought her a present of Dutch herrings, and besought her to come back and be
Mrs. Ben Jonah at the Hague.

Rebecca temporized as best she might. She thought her uncle was too old. She besought dear
Moses and dear Simeon not to quarrel with each other, and offend their father by pressing their
suit. Ben Minories from London, she said, was too young, and Jochanan from Paris, she pointed
out to Isaac of York, must be a spendthrift, or he would not wear those absurd waistcoats.
As for Ben Jonah, she said, she could not bear the notion of tobacco and Dutch herrings: she
wished to stay with her papa, her dear papa. In fine, she invented a thousand excuses for delay,
and it was plain that marriage was odious to her. The only man whom she received with anything
like favor, was young Bevis Marks of London, with whom she was very familiar. But Bevis had
come to her with a certain token that had been given to him by an English knight, who saved
him from a fagot to which the ferocious Hospitaller Folko of Heydenbraten was about to condemn
him. It was but a ring, with an emerald in it, that Bevis knew to be sham, and not worth a
groat. Rebecca knew about the value of jewels too; but ah! she valued this one more than all
the diamonds in Prester John's turban. She kissed it; she cried over it; she wore it in her
bosom always and when she knelt down at night and morning, she held it between her folded hands
on her neck. . . . Young Bevis Marks went away finally no better off than the others; the rascal
sold to the King of France a handsome ruby, the very size of the bit of glass in Rebecca's
ring; but he always said he would rather have had her than ten thousand pounds: and very likely
he would, for it was known she would at once have a plum to her fortune.

These delays, however, could not continue for ever; and at a great family meeting held at Passover-time,
Rebecca was solemnly ordered to choose a husband out of the gentlemen there present; her aunts
pointing out the great kindness which had been shown to her by her father, in permitting her
to choose for herself. One aunt was of the Solomon faction, another aunt took Simeon's side,
a third most venerable old lady--the head of the family, and a hundred and forty-four years
of age--was ready to pronounce a curse upon her, and cast her out, unless she married before
the month was over. All the jewelled heads of all the old ladies in council, all the beards
of all the family, wagged against her: it must have been an awful sight to witness.

At last, then, Rebecca was forced to speak. "Kinsmen!" she said, turning pale, "when the Prince
Abou Abdil asked me in marriage, I told you I would not wed but with one of my own faith."

"She has turned Turk," screamed out the ladies. "She wants to be a princess, and has turned
Turk," roared the rabbis.

"Well, well," said Isaac, in rather an appeased tone, "let us hear what the poor girl has got
to say. Do you want to marry his royal highness, Rebecca? Say the word, yes or no."

Another groan burst from the rabbis--they cried, shrieked, chattered, gesticulated, furious
to lose such a prize; as were the women, that she should reign over them a second Esther.

"Silence," cried out Isaac; "let the girl speak. Speak boldly, Rebecca dear, there's a good girl."

Rebecca was as pale as a stone. She folded her arms on her breast, and felt the ring there.
She looked round all the assembly, and then at Isaac. "Father," she said, in a thrilling low
steady voice, "I am not of your religion--I am not of the Prince Boabdil's religion--I--I am
of HIS religion."

"His! whose, in the name of Moses, girl?" cried Isaac.

Rebecca clasped her hands on her beating chest and looked round with dauntless eyes. "Of his,"
she said, "who saved my life and your honor: of my dear, dear champion's. I never can be his,
but I will be no other's. Give my money to my kinsmen; it is that they long for. Take the dross,
Simeon and Solomon, Jonah and Jochanan, and divide it among you, and leave me. I will never
be yours, I tell you, never. Do you think, after knowing him and hearing him speak,--after
watching him wounded on his pillow, and glorious in battle" (her eyes melted and kindled again
as she spoke these words), "I can mate with such as you? Go. Leave me to myself. I am none
of yours. I love him--I love him. Fate divides us--long, long miles separate us; and I know
we may never meet again. But I love and bless him always. Yes, always. My prayers are his;
my faith is his. Yes, my faith is your faith, Wilfrid--Wilfrid! I have no kindred more,--I
am a Christian!"

At this last word there was such a row in the assembly, as my feeble pen would in vain endeavor
to depict. Old Isaac staggered back in a fit, and nobody took the least notice of him. Groans,
curses, yells of men, shrieks of women, filled the room with such a furious jabbering, as might
have appalled any heart less stout than Rebecca's; but that brave woman was prepared for all;
expecting, and perhaps hoping, that death would be her instant lot. There was but one creature
who pitied her, and that was her cousin and father's clerk, little Ben Davids, who was but
thirteen, and had only just begun to carry a bag, and whose crying and boo-hooing, as she finished
speaking, was drowned in the screams and maledictions of the elder Israelites. Ben Davids was
madly in love with his cousin (as boys often are with ladies of twice their age), and he had
presence of mind suddenly to knock over the large brazen lamp on the table, which illuminated
the angry conclave; then, whispering to Rebecca to go up to her own room and lock herself in,
or they would kill her else, he took her hand and led her out.

From that day she disappeared from among her people. The poor and the wretched missed her,
and asked for her in vain. Had any violence been done to her, the poorer Jews would have risen
and put all Isaac's family to death; and besides, her old flame, Prince Boabdil, would have
also been exceedingly wrathful. She was not killed then, but, so to speak, buried alive, and
locked up in Isaac's back-kitchen: an apartment into which scarcely any light entered, and
where she was fed upon scanty portions of the most mouldy bread and water. Little Ben Davids
was the only person who visited her, and her sole consolation was to talk to him about Ivanhoe,
and how good and how gentle he was; how brave and how true; and how he slew the tremendous
knight of the Templars, and how he married a lady whom Rebecca scarcely thought worthy of him,
but with whom she prayed he might be happy; and of what color his eyes were, and what were
the arms on his shield--viz, a tree with the word "Desdichado" written underneath, &c. &c.
&c.: all which talk would not have interested little Davids, had it come from anybody else's
mouth, but to which he never tired of listening as it fell from her sweet lips.

So, in fact, when old Isaac of York came to negotiate with Don Beltran de Cuchilla for the
ransom of the Alfaqui's daughter of Xixona, our dearest Rebecca was no more dead than you and
I; and it was in his rage and fury against Ivanhoe that Isaac told that cavalier the falsehood
which caused the knight so much pain and such a prodigious deal of bloodshed to the Moors:
and who knows, trivial as it may seem, whether it was not that very circumstance which caused
the destruction in Spain of the Moorish power?

Although Isaac, we may be sure, never told his daughter that Ivanhoe had cast up again, yet
Master Ben Davids did, who heard it from his employer; and he saved Rebecca's life by communicating
the intelligence, for the poor thing would have infallibly perished but for this good news.
She had now been in prison four years three months and twenty-four days, during which time
she had partaken of nothing but bread and water (except such occasional tit-bits as Davids
could bring her--and these were few indeed; for old Isaac was always a curmudgeon, and seldom
had more than a pair of eggs for his own and Davids' dinner); and she was languishing away,
when the news came suddenly to revive her. Then, though in the darkness you could not see her
cheeks, they began to bloom again: then her heart began to beat and her blood to flow, and
she kissed the ring on her neck a thousand times a day at least; and her constant question
was, "Ben Davids! Ben Davids! when is he coming to besiege Valencia?" She knew he would come:
and, indeed, the Christians were encamped before the town ere a month was over.

*****

And now, my dear boys and girls, I think I perceive behind that dark scene of the back-kitchen
(which is just a simple flat, painted stone-color, that shifts in a minute,) bright streaks
of light flashing out, as though they were preparing a most brilliant, gorgeous, and altogether
dazzling illumination, with effects never before attempted on any stage. Yes, the fairy in
the pretty pink tights and spangled muslin is getting into the brilliant revolving chariot
of the realms of bliss.--Yes, most of the fiddlers and trumpeters have gone round from the
orchestra to join in the grand triumphal procession, where the whole strength of the company
is already assembled, arrayed in costumes of Moorish and Christian chivalry, to celebrate the
"Terrible Escalade," the "Rescue of Virtuous Innocence"--the "Grand Entry of the Christians
into Valencia"--"Appearance of the Fairy Day-Star," and "Unexampled displays of pyrotechnic
festivity." Do you not, I say, perceive that we are come to the end of our history; and, after
a quantity of rapid and terrific fighting, brilliant change of scenery, and songs, appropriate
or otherwise, are bringing our hero and heroine together? Who wants a long scene at the last?
Mammas are putting the girls' cloaks and boas on; papas have gone out to look for the carriage,
and left the box-door swinging open, and letting in the cold air: if there WERE any stage-conversation,
you could not hear it, for the scuffling of the people who are leaving the pit. See, the orange-women
are preparing to retire. To-morrow their play-bills will be as so much waste-paper--so will
some of our masterpieces, woe is me: but lo! here we come to Scene the last, and Valencia is
besieged and captured by the Christians.

Who is the first on the wall, and who hurls down the green standard of the Prophet? Who chops
off the head of the Emir Aboo What-d'ye-call'im, just as the latter has cut over the cruel
Don Beltran de Cuchillay &c.? Who, attracted to the Jewish quarter by the shrieks of the inhabitants
who are being slain by the Moorish soldiery, and by a little boy by the name of Ben Davids,
who recognizes the knight by his shield, finds Isaac of York egorge on a threshold, and clasping
a large back-kitchen key? Who but Ivanhoe--who but Wilfrid? "An Ivanhoe to the rescue," he
bellows out; he has heard that news from little Ben Davids which makes him sing. And who is
it that comes out of the house--trembling--panting--with her arms out--in a white dress--with
her hair down--who is it but dear Rebecca? Look, they rush together, and Master Wamba is waving
an immense banner over them, and knocks down a circumambient Jew with a ham, which he happens
to have in his pocket. . . . As for Rebecca, now her head is laid upon Ivanhoe's heart, I shall
not ask to hear what she is whispering, or describe further that scene of meeting; though I
declare I am quite affected when I think of it. Indeed I have thought of it any time these
five-and-twenty years--ever since, as a boy at school, I commenced the noble study of novels--ever
since the day when, lying on sunny slopes of half-holidays, the fair chivalrous figures and
beautiful shapes of knights and ladies were visible to me--ever since I grew to love Rebecca,
that sweetest creature of the poet's fancy, and longed to see her righted.

That she and Ivanhoe were married, follows of course; for Rowena's promise extorted from him
was, that he would never wed a Jewess, and a better Christian than Rebecca now was never said
her catechism. Married I am sure they were, and adopted little Cedric; but I don't think they
had any other children, or were subsequently very boisterously happy. Of some sort of happiness
melancholy is a characteristic, and I think these were a solemn pair, and died rather early.

THE HISTORY OF THE NEXT FRENCH REVOLUTION.

[FROM A FORTHCOMING HISTORY OF EUROPE.]

CHAPTER I.

It is seldom that the historian has to record events more singular than those which occurred
during this year, when the Crown of France was battled for by no less than four pretenders,
with equal claims, merits, bravery, and popularity. First in the list we place--His Royal Highness
Louis Anthony Frederick Samuel Anna Maria, Duke of Brittany, and son of Louis XVI. The unhappy
Prince, when a prisoner with his unfortunate parents in the Temple, was enabled to escape from
that place of confinement, hidden (for the treatment of the ruffians who guarded him had caused
the young Prince to dwindle down astonishingly) in the cocked-hat of the Representative, Roederer.
It is well known that, in the troublous revolutionary times, cocked-hats were worn of a considerable
size.

He passed a considerable part of his life in Germany; was confined there for thirty years in
the dungeons of Spielberg; and, escaping thence to England, was, under pretence of debt, but
in reality from political hatred, imprisoned there also in the Tower of London. He must not
be confounded with any other of the persons who laid claim to be children of the unfortunate
victim of the first Revolution.

The next claimant, Henri of Bordeaux, is better known. In the year 1843 he held his little
fugitive court in furnished lodgings, in a forgotten district of London, called Belgrave Square.
Many of the nobles of France flocked thither to him, despising the persecutions of the occupant
of the throne; and some of the chiefs of the British nobility--among whom may be reckoned the
celebrated and chivalrous Duke of Jenkins--aided the adventurous young Prince with their counsels,
their wealth, and their valor.

The third candidate was his Imperial Highness Prince John Thomas Napoleon--a fourteenth cousin
of the late Emperor; and said by some to be a Prince of the House of Gomersal. He argued justly
that, as the immediate relatives of the celebrated Corsican had declined to compete for the
crown which was their right, he, Prince John Thomas, being next in succession, was, undoubtedly,
heir to the vacant imperial throne. And in support of his claim, he appealed to the fidelity
of Frenchmen and the strength of his good sword.

His Majesty Louis Philippe was, it need not be said, the illustrious wielder of the sceptre
which the three above-named princes desired to wrest from him. It does not appear that the
sagacious monarch was esteemed by his subjects, as such a prince should have been esteemed.
The light-minded people, on the contrary, were rather weary than otherwise of his sway. They
were not in the least attached to his amiable family, for whom his Majesty with characteristic
thrift had endeavored to procure satisfactory allowances. And the leading statesmen of the
country, whom his Majesty had disgusted, were suspected of entertaining any but feelings of
loyalty towards his house and person.

It was against the above-named pretenders that Louis Philippe (now nearly a hundred years old),
a prince amongst sovereigns, was called upon to defend his crown.

The city of Paris was guarded, as we all know, by a hundred and twenty-four forts, of a thousand
guns each--provisioned for a considerable time, and all so constructed as to fire, if need
were, upon the palace of the Tuileries. Thus, should the mob attack it, as in August 1792,
and July 1830, the building could be razed to the ground in an hour; thus, too, the capital
was quite secure from foreign invasion. Another defence against the foreigners was the state
of the roads. Since the English companies had retired, half a mile only of railroad had been
completed in France, and thus any army accustomed, as those of Europe now are, to move at sixty
miles an hour, would have been ennuye'd to death before they could have marched from the Rhenish,
the Maritime, the Alpine, or the Pyrenean frontier upon the capital of France. The French people,
however, were indignant at this defect of communication in their territory, and said, without
the least show of reason, that they would have preferred that the five hundred and seventy-five
thousand billions of francs which had been expended upon the fortifications should have been
laid out in a more peaceful manner. However, behind his forts, the King lay secure.

As it is our aim to depict in as vivid a manner as possible the strange events of the period,
the actions, the passions of individuals and parties engaged, we cannot better describe them
than by referring to contemporary documents, of which there is no lack. It is amusing at the
present day to read in the pages of the Moniteur and the Journal des Debats the accounts of
the strange scenes which took place.

The year 1884 had opened very tranquilly. The Court of the Tuileries had been extremely gay.
The three-and-twenty youngest Princes of England, sons of her Majesty Victoria, had enlivened
the balls by their presence; the Emperor of Russia and family had paid their accustomed visit;
and the King of the Belgians had, as usual, made his visit to his royal father-in-law, under
pretence of duty and pleasure, but really to demand payment of the Queen of the Belgians' dowry,
which Louis Philippe of Orleans still resolutely declined to pay. Who would have thought that
in the midst of such festivity danger was lurking rife, in the midst of such quiet, rebellion?

Charenton was the great lunatic asylum of Paris, and it was to this repository that the scornful
journalist consigned the pretender to the throne of Louis XVI.

But on the next day, viz. Saturday, the 29th February, the same journal contained a paragraph
of a much more startling and serious import; in which, although under a mask of carelessness,
it was easy to see the Government alarm.

On Friday, the 28th February, the Journal des Debats contained a paragraph, which did not occasion
much sensation at the Bourse, so absurd did its contents seem. It ran as follows:--

"ENCORE UN LOUIS XVII.! A letter from Calais tells us that a strange personage lately landed
from England (from Bedlam we believe) has been giving himself out to be the son of the unfortunate
Louis XVI. This is the twenty-fourth pretender of the species who has asserted that his father
was the august victim of the Temple. Beyond his pretensions, the poor creature is said to be
pretty harmless; he is accompanied by one or two old women, who declare they recognize in him
the Dauphin; he does not make any attempt to seize upon his throne by force of arms, but waits
until heaven shall conduct him to it.

"If his Majesty comes to Paris, we presume he will TAKE UP his quarters in the palace of Charenton.

"We have not before alluded to certain rumors which have been afloat (among the lowest canaille
and the vilest estaminets of the metropolis), that a notorious personage--why should we hesitate
to mention the name of the Prince John Thomas Napoleon?--has entered France with culpable intentions,
and revolutionary views. The Moniteur of this morning, however, confirms the disgraceful fact.
A pretender is on our shores; an armed assassin is threatening our peaceful liberties; a wandering,
homeless cut-throat is robbing on our highways; and the punishment of his crime awaits him.
Let no considerations of the past defer that just punishment; it is the duty of the legislator
to provide for THE FUTURE. Let the full powers of the law be brought against him, aided by
the stern justice of the public force. Let him be tracked, like a wild beast, to his lair,
and meet the fate of one. But the sentence has, ere this, been certainly executed. The brigand,
we hear, has been distributing (without any effect) pamphlets among the low ale-houses and
peasantry of the department of the Upper Rhine (in which he lurks); and the Police have an
easy means of tracking his footsteps.

"Corporal Crane, of the Gendarmerie, is on the track of the unfortunate young man. His attempt
will only serve to show the folly of the pretenders, and the love, respect, regard, fidelity,
admiration, reverence, and passionate personal attachment in which we hold our beloved sovereign."

"SECOND EDITION!

"CAPTURE OF THE PRINCE.

"A courier has just arrived at the Tuileries with a report that after a scuffle between Corporal
Crane and the 'Imperial Army,' in a water-barrel, whither the latter had retreated, victory
has remained with the former. A desperate combat ensued in the first place, in a hay-loft,
whence the pretender was ejected with immense loss. He is now a prisoner--and we dread to think
what his fate may be! It will warn future aspirants, and give Europe a lesson which it is not
likely to forget. Above all, it will set beyond a doubt the regard, respect, admiration, reverence,
and adoration which we all feel for our sovereign."

"THIRD EDITION.

"A second courier has arrived. The infatuated Crane has made common cause with the Prince,
and forever forfeited the respect of Frenchmen. A detachment of the 520th Leger has marched
in pursuit of the pretender and his dupes. Go, Frenchmen, go and conquer! Remember that it
is our rights you guard, our homes which you march to defend; our laws which are confided to
the points of your unsullied bayonets;--above all, our dear, dear sovereign, around whose throne
you rally!

"Our feelings overpower us. Men of the 520th, remember your watchword is Gemappes,--your countersign,
Valmy."

"The Emperor of Russia and his distinguished family quitted the Tuileries this day. His Imperial
Majesty embraced his Majesty the King of the French with tears in his eyes, and conferred upon
their RR. HH. the Princes of Nemours and Joinville, the Grand Cross of the Order of the Blue
Eagle."

"His Majesty passed a review of the Police force. The venerable monarch was received with deafening
cheers by this admirable and disinterested body of men. Those cheers were echoed in all French
hearts. Long, long may our beloved Prince be among us to receive them!"

CHAPTER II.

HENRY V. AND NAPOLEON III.

Sunday, February 30th.

We resume our quotations from the Debats, which thus introduces a third pretender to the throne:--

"Is this distracted country never to have peace? While on Friday we recorded the pretensions
of a maniac to the great throne of France; while on Saturday we were compelled to register
the culpable attempts of one whom we regard as a ruffian, murderer, swindler, forger, burglar,
and common pickpocket, to gain over the allegiance of Frenchmen--it is to-day our painful duty
to announce a THIRD invasion--yes, a third invasion. The wretched, superstitious, fanatic Duke
of Bordeaux has landed at Nantz, and has summoned the Vendeans and the Bretons to mount the
white cockade.

"Grand Dieu! are we not happy under the tricolor? Do we not repose under the majestic shadow
of the best of kings? Is there any name prouder than that of Frenchman; any subject more happy
than that of our sovereign? Does not the whole French family adore their father? Yes. Our lives,
our hearts, our blood, our fortune, are at his disposal: it was not in vain that we raised,
it is not the first time we have rallied round, the august throne of July. The unhappy Duke
is most likely a prisoner by this time; and the martial court which shall be called upon to
judge one infamous traitor and pretender, may at the same moment judge another. Away with both!
let the ditch of Vincennes (which has been already fatal to his race) receive his body, too,
and with it the corpse of the other pretender. Thus will a great crime be wiped out of history,
and the manes of a slaughtered martyr avenged!

"One word more. We hear that the Duke of Jenkins accompanies the descendant of Caroline of
Naples. An ENGLISH DUKE, entendez-vous! An English Duke, great heaven! and the Princes of England
still dancing in our royal halls! Where, where will the perfidy of Albion end?"

"The King reviewed the third and fourth battalions of Police. The usual heart-rending cheers
accompanied the monarch, who looked younger than ever we saw him--ay, as young as when he faced
the Austrian cannon at Valmy and scattered their squadrons at Gemappes.

"Rations of liquor, and crosses of the Legion of Honor, were distributed to all the men.

"The English Princes quitted the Tuileries in twenty-three coaches-and-four. They were not
rewarded with crosses of the Legion of Honor. This is significant."

"The Dukes of Joinville and Nemours left the palace for the departments of the Loire and Upper
Rhine, where they will take the command of the troops. The Joinville regiment--Cavalerie de
la Marine--is one of the finest in the service."

"Orders have been given to arrest the fanatic who calls himself Duke of Brittany, and who has
been making some disturbances in the Pas de Calais."

"ANECDOTE OF HIS MAJESTY.--At the review of troops (Police) yesterday, his Majesty, going up
to one old grognard and pulling him by the ear, said, 'Wilt thou have a cross or another ration
of wine?' The old hero, smiling archly, answered, 'Sire, a brave man can gain a cross any day
of battle, but it is hard for him sometimes to get a drink of wine.' We need not say that he
had his drink, and the generous sovereign sent him the cross and ribbon too."

On the next day, the Government journals began to write in rather a despondent tone regarding
the progress of the pretenders to the throne. In spite of their big talking, anxiety is clearly
manifested, as appears from the following remarks of the Debats:--

"The courier from the Rhine department," says the Debats, "brings us the following astounding
Proclamation:--

"'Strasburg, xxii. Nivose: Decadi. 92nd year of the Republic, one and indivisible. We, John
Thomas Napoleon, by the constitutions of the Empire, Emperor of the French Republic, to our
marshals, generals, officers, and soldiers, greeting:

"'Soldiers!

"'From the summit of the Pyramids forty centuries look down upon you. The sun of Austerlitz
has risen once more. The Guard dies, but never surrenders. My eagles, flying from steeple to
steeple, never shall droop till they perch on the towers of Notre Dame.

"'Soldiers! the child of YOUR FATHER has remained long in exile. I have seen the fields of
Europe where your laurels are now withering, and I have communed with the dead who repose beneath
them. They ask where are our children? Where is France? Europe no longer glitters with the
shine of its triumphant bayonets--echoes no more with the shouts of its victorious cannon.
Who could reply to such a question save with a blush?--And does a blush become the cheeks of
Frenchmen?

"'No. Let us wipe from our faces that degrading mark of shame. Come, as of old, and rally round
my eagles! You have been subject to fiddling prudence long enough. Come, worship now at the
shrine of Glory! You have been promised liberty, but you have had none. I will endow you with
the true, the real freedom. When your ancestors burst over the Alps, were they not free? Yes;
free to conquer. Let us imitate the example of those indomitable myriads; and, flinging a defiance
to Europe, once more trample over her; march in triumph into her prostrate capitals, and bring
her kings with her treasures at our feet. This is the liberty worthy of Frenchmen.

"'Frenchmen! I promise you that the Rhine shall be restored to you; and that England shall
rank no more among the nations. I will have a marine that shall drive her ships from the seas;
a few of my brave regiments will do the rest. Henceforth, the traveller in that desert island
shall ask, "Was it this wretched corner of the world that for a thousand years defied Frenchmen?"

"'Frenchmen, up and rally!--I have flung my banner to the breezes; 'tis surrounded by the faithful
and the brave. Up, and let our motto be, LIBERTY, EQUALITY, WAR ALL OVER THE WORLD!

"'NAPOLEON III.

"'The Marshal of the Empire, HARICOT.'

"Such is the Proclamation! such the hopes that a brutal-minded and bloody adventurer holds
out to our country. 'War all over the world,' is the cry of the savage demon; and the fiends
who have rallied round him echo it in concert. We were not, it appears, correct in stating
that a corporal's guard had been sufficient to seize upon the marauder, when the first fire
would have served to conclude his miserable life. But, like a hideous disease, the contagion
has spread; the remedy must be dreadful. Woe to those on whom it will fall!

"His Royal Highness the Prince of Joinville, Admiral of France, has hastened, as we before
stated, to the disturbed districts, and takes with him his Cavalerie de la Marine. It is hard
to think that the blades of those chivalrous heroes must be buried in the bosoms of Frenchmen:
but so be it: it is those monsters who have asked for blood, not we. It is those ruffians who
have begun the quarrel, not we. WE remain calm and hopeful, reposing under the protection of
the dearest and best of sovereigns.

"The wretched pretender, who called himself Duke of Brittany, has been seized, according to
our prophecy: he was brought before the Prefect of Police yesterday, and his insanity being
proved beyond a doubt, he has been consigned to a strait-waistcoat at Charenton. So may all
incendiary enemies of our Government be overcome!

"His Royal Highness the Duke of Nemours is gone into the department of the Loire, where he
will speedily put an end to the troubles in the disturbed districts of the Bocage and La Vendee.
The foolish young Prince, who has there raised his standard, is followed, we hear, by a small
number of wretched persons, of whose massacre we expect every moment to receive the news. He
too has issued his Proclamation, and our readers will smile at its contents:

"'WE HENRY, Fifth of the Name, King of France and Navarre, to all whom it may concern, greeting:

"'After years of exile we have once more unfurled in France the banner of the lilies. Once
more the white plume of Henri IV. floats in the crest of his little son (petit fils)! Gallant
nobles! worthy burgesses! honest commons of my realm, I call upon you to rally round the oriflamme
of France, and summon the ban arriereban of my kingdoms. To my faithful Bretons I need not
appeal. The country of Duguesclin has loyalty for an heirloom! To the rest of my subjects,
my atheist misguided subjects, their father makes one last appeal. Come to me, my children!
your errors shall be forgiven. Our Holy Father, the Pope, shall intercede for you. He promised
it when, before my departure on this expedition, I kissed his inviolable toe!

"'Our afflicted country cries aloud for reforms. The infamous universities shall be abolished.
Education shall no longer be permitted. A sacred and wholesome inquisition shall be established.
My faithful nobles shall pay no more taxes. All the venerable institutions of our country shall
be restored as they existed before 1788. Convents and monasteries again shall ornament our
country, the calm nurseries of saints and holy women! Heresy shall be extirpated with paternal
severity, and our country shall be free once more.

"'His Majesty the King of Ireland, my august ally, has sent, under the command of His Royal
Highness Prince Daniel, his Majesty's youngest son, an irresistible IRISH BRIGADE, to co-operate
in the good work. His Grace the Lion of Judah, the canonized patriarch of Tuam, blessed their
green banner before they set forth. Henceforth may the lilies and the harp be ever twined together.
Together we will make a crusade against the infidels of Albion, and raze their heretic domes
to the ground. Let our cry be, Vive la France! down with England! Montjoie St. Denis!

"'BY THE KING.

"'The Secretary of State and Grand Inquisitor. . . LA ROUE. The Marshal of France. . . POMADOUR
DE L'AILE DE PIGEON. The General Commander-in-Chief of the Irish Brigade in the service of
his Most Christian Majesty. . . DANIEL, PRINCE OF BALLYBUNION.

'HENRI."'

"His Majesty reviewed the admirable Police force, and held a council of Ministers in the afternoon.
Measures were concerted for the instant putting down of the disturbances in the departments
of the Rhine and Loire, and it is arranged that on the capture of the pretenders, they shall
be lodged in separate cells in the prison of the Luxembourg: the apartments are already prepared,
and the officers at their posts.

"The grand banquet that was to be given at the palace to-day to the diplomatic body, has been
put off; all the ambassadors being attacked with illness, which compels them to stay at home."

"The ambassadors despatched couriers to their various Governments."

"His Majesty the King of the Belgians left the palace of the Tuileries."

CHAPTER III.

THE ADVANCE OF THE PRETENDERS.--HISTORICAL REVIEW.

We will now resume the narrative, and endeavor to compress, in a few comprehensive pages, the
facts which are more diffusely described in the print from which we have quoted.

It was manifest, then, that the troubles in the departments were of a serious nature, and that
the forces gathered round the two pretenders to the crown were considerable. They had their
supporters too in Paris--as what party indeed has not? and the venerable occupant of the throne
was in a state of considerable anxiety, and found his declining years by no means so comfortable
as his virtues and great age might have warranted.

His paternal heart was the more grieved when he thought of the fate reserved to his children,
grandchildren, and great-grandchildren, now sprung up around him in vast numbers. The King's
grandson, the Prince Royal, married to a Princess of the house of Schlippen-Schloppen, was
the father of fourteen children, all handsomely endowed with pensions by the State. His brother,
the Count D'Eu, was similarly blessed with a multitudinous offspring. The Duke of Nemours had
no children; but the Princes of Joinville, Aumale, and Montpensier (married to the Princesses
Januaria and Februaria, of Brazil, and the Princess of the United States of America, erected
into a monarchy, 4th July, 1856, under the Emperor Duff Green I.) were the happy fathers of
immense families--all liberally apportioned by the Chambers, which had long been entirely subservient
to his Majesty Louis Philippe.

The Duke of Aumale was King of Algeria, having married (in the first instance) the Princess
Badroulboudour, a daughter of his Highness Abd-El-Kader. The Prince of Joinville was adored
by the nation, on account of his famous victory over the English fleet under the command of
Admiral the Prince of Wales, whose ship, the "Richard Cobden," of 120 guns, was taken by the
"Belle-Poule" frigate of 36; on which occasion forty-five other ships of war and 79 steam-frigates
struck their colors to about one-fourth the number of the heroic French navy. The victory was
mainly owing to the gallantry of the celebrated French horse-marines, who executed several
brilliant charges under the orders of the intrepid Joinville; and though the Irish Brigade,
with their ordinary modesty, claimed the honors of the day, yet, as only three of that nation
were present in the action, impartial history must award the palm to the intrepid sons of Gaul.

With so numerous a family quartered on the nation, the solicitude of the admirable King may
be conceived, lest a revolution should ensue, and fling them on the world once more. How could
he support so numerous a family? Considerable as his wealth was (for he was known to have amassed
about a hundred and thirteen billions, which were lying in the caves of the Tuileries), yet
such a sum was quite insignificant, when divided among his progeny; and, besides, he naturally
preferred getting from the nation as much as his faithful people could possibly afford.

Seeing the imminency of the danger, and that money, well applied, is often more efficacious
than the conqueror's sword, the King's Ministers were anxious that he should devote a part
of his savings to the carrying on of the war. But, with the cautiousness of age, the monarch
declined this offer; he preferred, he said, throwing himself upon his faithful people, who,
he was sure, would meet, as became them, the coming exigency. The Chambers met his appeal with
their usual devotion. At a solemn convocation of those legislative bodies, the King, surrounded
by his family, explained the circumstances and the danger. His Majesty, his family, his Ministers,
and the two Chambers, then burst into tears, according to immemorial usage, and raising their
hands to the ceiling, swore eternal fidelity to the dynasty and to France, and embraced each
other affectingly all round.

It need not be said that in the course of that evening two hundred Deputies of the Left left
Paris, and joined the Prince John Thomas Napoleon, who was now advanced as far as Dijon: two
hundred and fifty-three (of the Right, the Centre, and Round the Corner,) similarly quitted
the capital to pay their homage to the Duke of Bordeaux. They were followed, according to their
several political predilections, by the various Ministers and dignitaries of the State. The
only Minister who remained in Paris was Marshal Thiers, Prince of Waterloo (he had defeated
the English in the very field where they had obtained formerly a success, though the victory
was as usual claimed by the Irish Brigade); but age had ruined the health and diminished the
immense strength of that gigantic leader, and it is said his only reason for remaining in Paris
was because a fit of the gout kept him in bed.

The capital was entirely tranquil. The theatres and cafes were open as usual, and the masked
balls attended with great enthusiasm: confiding in their hundred and twenty-four forts, the
light-minded people had nothing to fear.

Except in the way of money, the King left nothing undone to conciliate his people. He even
went among them with his umbrella; but they were little touched with that mark of confidence.
He shook hands with everybody; he distributed crosses of the Legion of Honor in such multitudes,
that red ribbon rose two hundred per cent in the market (by which his Majesty, who speculated
in the article, cleared a tolerable sum of money). But these blandishments and honors had little
effect upon an apathetic people; and the enemy of the Orleans dynasty, the fashionable young
nobles of the Henriquinquiste party, wore gloves perpetually, for fear (they said) that they
should be obliged to shake hands with the best of kings; while the republicans adopted coats
without button-holes, lest they should be forced to hang red ribbons in them. The funds did
not fluctuate in the least.

The proclamations of the several pretenders had had their effect. The young men of the schools
and the estaminets (celebrated places of public education) allured by the noble words of Prince
Napoleon, "Liberty, equality, war all over the world!" flocked to his standard in considerable
numbers: while the noblesse naturally hastened to offer their allegiance to the legitimate
descendant of Saint Louis.

And truly, never was there seen a more brilliant chivalry than that collected round the gallant
Prince Henry! There was not a man in his army but had lacquered boots and fresh white kid-gloves
at morning and evening parade. The fantastic and effeminate but brave and faithful troops were
numbered off into different legions: there was the Fleur-d'Orange regiment; the Eau-de-Rose
battalion; the Violet-Pomatum volunteers; the Eau-de-Cologne cavalry--according to the different
scents which they affected. Most of the warriors wore lace ruffles; all powder and pigtails,
as in the real days of chivalry. A band of heavy dragoons under the command of Count Alfred
de Horsay made themselves conspicuous for their discipline, cruelty, and the admirable cut
of their coats; and with these celebrated horsemen came from England the illustrious Duke of
Jenkins with his superb footmen. They were all six feet high. They all wore bouquets of the
richest flowers: they wore bags, their hair slightly powdered, brilliant shoulder-knots, and
cocked-hats laced with gold. They wore the tight knee-pantaloon of velveteen peculiar to this
portion of the British infantry: and their legs were so superb, that the Duke of Bordeaux,
embracing with tears their admirable leader on parade, said, "Jenkins, France never saw such
calves until now." The weapon of this tremendous militia was an immense club or cane, reaching
from the sole of the foot to the nose, and heavily mounted with gold. Nothing could stand before
this terrific weapon, and the breast-plates and plumed morions of the French cuirassiers would
have been undoubtedly crushed beneath them, had they ever met in mortal combat. Between this
part of the Prince's forces and the Irish auxiliaries there was a deadly animosity. Alas, there
always is such in camps! The sons of Albion had not forgotten the day when the children of
Erin had been subject to their devastating sway.

The uniform of the latter was various--the rich stuff called corps-du-roy (worn by Coeur de
Lion at Agincourt) formed their lower habiliments for the most part: the national frieze* yielded
them tail-coats. The latter was generally torn in a fantastic manner at the elbows, skirts,
and collars, and fastened with every variety of button, tape, and string. Their weapons were
the caubeen, the alpeen, and the doodeen of the country--the latter a short but dreadful weapon
of offence. At the demise of the venerable Theobald Mathew, the nation had laid aside its habit
of temperance, and universal intoxication betokened their grief; it became afterwards their
constant habit. Thus do men ever return to the haunts of their childhood: such a power has
fond memory over us! The leaders of this host seem to have been, however, an effeminate race;
they are represented by contemporary historians as being passionately fond of FLYING KITES.
Others say they went into battle armed with "bills," no doubt rude weapons; for it is stated
that foreigners could never be got to accept them in lieu of their own arms. The Princes of
Mayo, Donegal, and Connemara, marched by the side of their young and royal chieftain, the Prince
of Ballybunion, fourth son of Daniel the First, King of the Emerald Isle.

     * Were these in any way related to the chevaux-de-frise on
     which the French cavalry were mounted?

Two hosts then, one under the Eagles, and surrounded by the republican imperialists, the other
under the antique French Lilies, were marching on the French capital. The Duke of Brittany,
too, confined in the lunatic asylum of Charenton, found means to issue a protest against his
captivity, which caused only derision in the capital. Such was the state of the empire, and
such the clouds that were gathering round the Sun of Orleans!

CHAPTER IV.

THE BATTLE OF RHEIMS.

It was not the first time that the King had had to undergo misfortunes; and now, as then, he
met them like a man. The Prince of Joinville was not successful in his campaign against the
Imperial Pretender: and that bravery which had put the British fleet to flight, was found,
as might be expected, insufficient against the irresistible courage of native Frenchmen. The
Horse Marines, not being on their own element, could not act with their usual effect. Accustomed
to the tumult of the swelling seas, they were easily unsaddled on terra firma and in the Champagne
country.

It was literally in the Champagne country that the meeting between the troops under Joinville
and Prince Napoleon took place! for both armies had reached Rheims, and a terrific battle was
fought underneath the walls. For some time nothing could dislodge the army of Joinville, entrenched
in the champagne cellars of Messrs. Ruinart, Moet, and others; but making too free with the
fascinating liquor, the army at length became entirely drunk: on which the Imperialists, rushing
into the cellars, had an easy victory over them; and, this done, proceeded to intoxicate themselves
likewise.

The Prince of Joinville, seeing the deroute of his troops, was compelled with a few faithful
followers to fly towards Paris, and Prince Napoleon remained master of the field of battle.
It is needless to recapitulate the bulletin which he published the day after the occasion,
so soon as he and his secretaries were in a condition to write: eagles, pyramids, rainbows,
the sun of Austerlitz, &c., figured in the proclamation, in close imitation of his illustrious
uncle. But the great benefit of the action was this: on arousing from their intoxication, the
late soldiers of Joinville kissed and embraced their comrades of the Imperial army, and made
common cause with them.

"Soldiers!" said the Prince, on reviewing them the second day after the action, "the Cock is
a gallant bird; but he makes way for the Eagle! Your colors are not changed. Ours floated on
the walls of Moscow--yours on the ramparts of Constantine; both are glorious. Soldiers of Joinville!
we give you welcome, as we would welcome your illustrious leader, who destroyed the fleets
of Albion. Let him join us! We will march together against that perfidious enemy.

"But, Soldiers! intoxication dimmed the laurels of yesterday's glorious day! Let us drink no
more of the fascinating liquors of our native Champagne. Let us remember Hannibal and Capua;
and, before we plunge into dissipation, that we have Rome still to conquer!

"Soldiers! Seltzer-water is good after too much drink. Wait awhile, and your Emperor will lead
you into a Seltzer-water country. Frenchmen! it lies BEYOND THE RHINE!"

Deafening shouts of "Vive l'Empereur!" saluted this allusion of the Prince, and the army knew
that their natural boundary should be restored to them. The compliments to the gallantry of
the Prince of Joinville likewise won all hearts, and immensely advanced the Prince's cause.
The Journal des Debats did not know which way to turn. In one paragraph it called the Emperor
"a sanguinary tyrant, murderer, and pickpocket;" in a second it owned he was "a magnanimous
rebel, and worthy of forgiveness;" and, after proclaiming "the brilliant victory of the Prince
of Joinville," presently denominated it a "funeste journee."

The next day the Emperor, as we may now call him, was about to march on Paris, when Messrs.
Ruinart and Moet were presented, and requested to be paid for 300,000 bottles of wine. "Send
three hundred thousand more to the Tuileries," said the Prince, sternly: "our soldiers will
be thirsty when they reach Paris." And taking Moet with him as a hostage, and promising Ruinart
that he would have him shot unless he obeyed, with trumpets playing and eagles glancing in
the sun, the gallant Imperial army marched on their triumphant way.

CHAPTER V.

THE BATTLE OF TOURS.

We have now to record the expedition of the Prince of Nemours against his advancing cousin,
Henry V. His Royal Highness could not march against the enemy with such a force as he would
have desired to bring against them; for his royal father, wisely remembering the vast amount
of property he had stowed away under the Tuileries, refused to allow a single soldier to quit
the forts round the capital, which thus was defended by one hundred and forty-four thousand
guns (eighty-four-pounders), and four hundred and thirty-two thousand men:--little enough,
when one considers that there were but three men to a gun. To provision this immense army,
and a population of double the amount within the walls, his Majesty caused the country to be
scoured for fifty miles round, and left neither ox, nor ass, nor blade of grass. When appealed
to by the inhabitants of the plundered district, the royal Philip replied, with tears in his
eyes, that his heart bled for them--that they were his children--that every cow taken from
the meanest peasant was like a limb torn from his own body; but that duty must be done, that
the interests of the country demanded the sacrifice, and that in fact, they might go to the
deuce. This the unfortunate creatures certainly did.

The theatres went on as usual within the walls. The Journal des Debats stated every day that
the pretenders were taken; the Chambers sat--such as remained--and talked immensely about honor,
dignity, and the glorious revolution of July; and the King, as his power was now pretty nigh
absolute over them, thought this a good opportunity to bring in a bill for doubling his children's
allowances all round.

Meanwhile the Duke of Nemours proceeded on his march; and as there was nothing left within
fifty miles of Paris wherewith to support his famished troops, it may be imagined that he was
forced to ransack the next fifty miles in order to maintain them. He did so. But the troops
were not such as they should have been, considering the enemy with whom they had to engage.

The fact is, that most of the Duke's army consisted of the National Guard; who, in a fit of
enthusiasm, and at the cry of "LA PATRIE EN DANGER" having been induced to volunteer, had been
eagerly accepted by his Majesty, anxious to lessen as much as possible the number of food-consumers
in his beleaguered capital. It is said even that he selected the most gormandizing battalions
of the civic force to send forth against the enemy: viz, the grocers, the rich bankers, the
lawyers, &c. Their parting with their families was very affecting. They would have been very
willing to recall their offer of marching, but companies of stern veterans closing round them,
marched them to the city gates, which were closed upon them; and thus perforce they were compelled
to move on. As long as he had a bottle of brandy and a couple of sausages in his holsters,
the General of the National Guard, Odillon Barrot, talked with tremendous courage. Such was
the power of his eloquence over the troops, that, could he have come up with the enemy while
his victuals lasted, the issue of the combat might have been very different. But in the course
of the first day's march he finished both the sausages and the brandy, and became quite uneasy,
silent, and crest-fallen.

It was on the fair plains of Touraine, by the banks of silver Loire, that the armies sat down
before each other, and the battle was to take place which had such an effect upon the fortunes
of France. 'Twas a brisk day of March: the practised valor of Nemours showed him at once what
use to make of the army under his orders, and having enfiladed his National Guard battalions,
and placed his artillery in echelons, he formed his cavalry into hollow squares on the right
and left of his line, flinging out a cloud of howitzers to fall back upon the main column.
His veteran infantry he formed behind his National Guard--politely hinting to Odillon Barrot,
who wished to retire under pretence of being exceedingly unwell, that the regular troops would
bayonet the National Guard if they gave way an inch: on which their General, turning very pale,
demurely went back to his post. His men were dreadfully discouraged; they had slept on the
ground all night; they regretted their homes and their comfortable nightcaps in the Rue St.
Honore: they had luckily fallen in with a flock of sheep and a drove of oxen at Tours the day
before; but what were these, compared to the delicacies of Chevet's or three courses at Vefour's?
They mournfully cooked their steaks and cutlets on their ramrods, and passed a most wretched night.

The army of Henry was encamped opposite to them for the most part in better order. The noble
cavalry regiments found a village in which they made themselves pretty comfortable, Jenkins's
Foot taking possession of the kitchens and garrets of the buildings. The Irish Brigade, accustomed
to lie abroad, were quartered in some potato fields, where they sang Moore's melodies all night.
There were, besides the troops regular and irregular, about three thousand priests and abbes
with the army, armed with scourging-whips, and chanting the most lugubrious canticles: these
reverend men were found to be a hindrance rather than otherwise to the operations of the regular
forces.

It was a touching sight, on the morning before the battle, to see the alacrity with which Jenkins's
regiment sprung up at the FIRST reveille of the bell, and engaged (the honest fellows!) in
offices almost menial for the benefit of their French allies. The Duke himself set the example,
and blacked to a nicety the boots of Henri. At half-past ten, after coffee, the brilliant warriors
of the cavalry were ready; their clarions rung to horse, their banners were given to the wind,
their shirt-collars were exquisitely starched, and the whole air was scented with the odors
of their pomatums and pocket-handkerchiefs.

Jenkins had the honor of holding the stirrup for Henri. "My faithful Duke!" said the Prince,
pulling him by the shoulder-knot, "thou art always at THY POST." "Here, as in Wellington Street,
sire," said the hero, blushing. And the Prince made an appropriate speech to his chivalry,
in which allusions to the lilies, Saint Louis, Bayard and Henri Quatre, were, as may be imagined,
not spared. "Ho! standard-bearer!" the Prince concluded, "fling out my oriflamme. Noble gents
of France, your King is among you to-day!"

Then turning to the Prince of Ballybunion, who had been drinking whiskey-punch all night with
the Princes of Donegal and Connemara, "Prince," he said, "the Irish Brigade has won every battle
in the French history--we will not deprive you of the honor of winning this. You will please
to commence the attack with your brigade." Bending his head until the green plumes of his beaver
mingled with the mane of the Shetland pony which he rode, the Prince of Ireland trotted off
with his aides-de-camp; who rode the same horses, powerful grays, with which a dealer at Nantz
had supplied them on their and the Prince's joint bill at three months.

The gallant sons of Erin had wisely slept until the last minute in their potato-trenches, but
rose at once at the summons of their beloved Prince. Their toilet was the work of a moment--a
single shake and it was done. Rapidly forming into a line, they advanced headed by their Generals,--who,
turning their steeds into a grass-field, wisely determined to fight on foot. Behind them came
the line of British foot under the illustrious Jenkins, who marched in advance perfectly collected,
and smoking a Manilla cigar. The cavalry were on the right and left of the infantry, prepared
to act in pontoon, in echelon, or in ricochet, as occasion might demand. The Prince rode behind,
supported by his Staff, who were almost all of them bishops, archdeacons, or abbes; and the
body of ecclesiastics followed, singing to the sound, or rather howl, of serpents and trombones,
the Latin canticles of the Reverend Franciscus O'Mahony, lately canonized under the name of
Saint Francis of Cork.

The advanced lines of the two contending armies were now in presence--the National Guard of
Orleans and the Irish Brigade. The white belts and fat paunches of the Guard presented a terrific
appearance; but it might have been remarked by the close observer, that their faces were as
white as their belts, and the long line of their bayonets might be seen to quiver. General
Odillon Barrot, with a cockade as large as a pancake, endeavored to make a speech: the words
honneur, patrie, Francais, champ de bataille might be distinguished; but the General was dreadfully
flustered, and was evidently more at home in the Chamber of Deputies than in the field of war.

The Prince of Ballybunion, for a wonder, did not make a speech. "Boys," said he, "we've enough
talking at the Corn Exchange; bating's the word now." The Green-Islanders replied with a tremendous
hurroo, which sent terror into the fat bosoms of the French.

"Gentlemen of the National Guard," said the Prince, taking off his hat and bowing to Odillon
Barrot, "will ye be so igsthramely obleeging as to fire first." This he said because it had
been said at Fontenoy, but chiefly because his own men were only armed with shillelaghs, and
therefore could not fire.

But this proposal was very unpalatable to the National Guardsmen: for though they understood
the musket-exercise pretty well, firing was the thing of all others they detested--the noise,
and the kick of the gun, and the smell of the powder being very unpleasant to them. "We won't
fire," said Odillon Barrot, turning round to Colonel Saugrenue and his regiment of the line--which,
it may be remembered, was formed behind the National Guard.

"Then give them the bayonet," said the Colonel, with a terrific oath. "Charge, corbleu!"

At this moment, and with the most dreadful howl that ever was heard, the National Guard was
seen to rush forwards wildly, and with immense velocity, towards the foe. The fact is, that
the line regiment behind them, each selecting his man, gave a poke with his bayonet between
the coat-tails of the Nationals, and those troops bounded forward with an irresistible swiftness.

Nothing could withstand the tremendous impetus of that manoeuvre. The Irish Brigade was scattered
before it, as chaff before the wind. The Prince of Ballybunion had barely time to run Odillon
Barrot through the body, when he too was borne away in the swift rout. They scattered tumultuously,
and fled for twenty miles without stopping. The Princes of Donegal and Connemara were taken
prisoners; but though they offered to give bills at three months, and for a hundred thousand
pounds, for their ransom, the offer was refused, and they were sent to the rear; when the Duke
of Nemours, hearing they were Irish Generals, and that they had been robbed of their ready
money by his troops, who had taken them prisoners, caused a comfortable breakfast to be supplied
to them, and lent them each a sum of money. How generous are men in success!--the Prince of
Orleans was charmed with the conduct of his National Guards, and thought his victory secure.
He despatched a courier to Paris with the brief words, "We met the enemy before Tours. The
National Guard has done its duty. The troops of the pretender are routed. Vive le Roi!" The
note, you may be sure, appeared in the Journal des Debats, and the editor, who only that morning
had called Henri V. "a great prince, an august exile," denominated him instantly a murderer,
slave, thief, cut-throat, pickpocket, and burglar.

CHAPTER VI.

THE ENGLISH UNDER JENKINS.

But the Prince had not calculated that there was a line of British infantry behind the routed
Irish Brigade. Borne on with the hurry of the melee, flushed with triumph, puffing and blowing
with running, and forgetting, in the intoxication of victory, the trifling bayonet-pricks which
had impelled them to the charge, the conquering National Guardsmen found themselves suddenly
in presence of Jenkins's Foot.

They halted all in a huddle, like a flock of sheep.

"UP, FOOT, AND AT THEM!" were the memorable words of the Duke Jenkins, as, waving his baton,
he pointed towards the enemy, and with a tremendous shout the stalwart sons of England rushed
on!--Down went plume and cocked-hat, down went corporal and captain, down went grocer and tailor,
under the long staves of the indomitable English Footmen. "A Jenkins! a Jenkins!" roared the
Duke, planting a blow which broke the aquiline nose of Major Arago, the celebrated astronomer.
"St. George for Mayfair!" shouted his followers, strewing the plain with carcasses. Not a man
of the Guard escaped; they fell like grass before the mower.

"They are gallant troops, those yellow-plushed Anglais," said the Duke of Nemours, surveying
them with his opera-glass. "'Tis a pity they will all be cut up in half an hour. Concombre!
take your dragoons, and do it!" "Remember Waterloo, boys!" said Colonel Concombre, twirling
his moustache, and a thousand sabres flashed in the sun, and the gallant hussars prepared to
attack the Englishmen.

Jenkins, his gigantic form leaning on his staff, and surveying the havoc of the field, was
instantly aware of the enemy's manoeuvre. His people were employed rifling the pockets of the
National Guard, and had made a tolerable booty, when the great Duke, taking a bell out of his
pocket, (it was used for signals in his battalion in place of fife or bugle,) speedily called
his scattered warriors together. "Take the muskets of the Nationals," said he. They did so.
"Form in square, and prepare to receive cavalry!" By the time Concombre's regiment arrived,
he found a square of bristling bayonets with Britons behind them!

The Colonel did not care to attempt to break that tremendous body. "Halt!" said he to his men.

"Fire!" screamed Jenkins, with eagle swiftness; but the guns of the National Guard not being
loaded, did not in consequence go off. The hussars gave a jeer of derision, but nevertheless
did not return to the attack, and seeing some of the Legitimist cavalry at hand, prepared to
charge upon them.

The fate of those carpet warriors was soon decided. The Millefleur regiment broke before Concombre's
hussars instantaneously; the Eau-de-Rose dragoons stuck spurs into their blood horses, and
galloped far out of reach of the opposing cavalry; the Eau-de-Cologne lancers fainted to a
man, and the regiment of Concombre, pursuing its course, had actually reached the Prince and
his aides-de-camp, when the clergymen coming up formed gallantly round the oriflamme, and the
bassoons and serpents braying again, set up such a shout of canticles, and anathemas, and excommunications,
that the horses of Concombre's dragoons in turn took fright, and those warriors in their turn
broke and fled. As soon as they turned, the Vendean riflemen fired amongst them and finished
them: the gallant Concombre fell; the intrepid though diminutive Cornichon, his major, was
cut down; Cardon was wounded a la moelle, and the wife of the fiery Navet was that day a widow.
Peace to the souls of the brave! In defeat or in victory, where can the soldier find a more
fitting resting-place than the glorious field of carnage? Only a few disorderly and dispirited
riders of Concombre's regiment reached Tours at night. They had left it but the day before,
a thousand disciplined and high-spirited men!

Knowing how irresistible a weapon is the bayonet in British hands, the intrepid Jenkins determined
to carry on his advantage, and charged the Saugrenue light infantry (now before him) with COLD
STEEL. The Frenchmen delivered a volley, of which a shot took effect in Jenkins's cockade,
but did not abide the crossing of the weapons. "A Frenchman dies, but never surrenders," said
Saugrenue, yielding up his sword, and his whole regiment were stabbed, trampled down, or made
prisoners. The blood of the Englishmen rose in the hot encounter. Their curses were horrible;
their courage tremendous. "On! on!" hoarsely screamed they; and a second regiment met them
and was crushed, pounded in the hurtling, grinding encounter. "A Jenkins, a Jenkins!" still
roared the heroic Duke: "St. George for Mayfair!" The Footmen of England still yelled their
terrific battle-cry, "Hurra, hurra!" On they went; regiment after regiment was annihilated,
until, scared at the very trample of the advancing warriors, the dismayed troops of France
screaming fled. Gathering his last warriors round about him, Nemours determined to make a last
desperate effort. 'Twas vain: the ranks met; the next moment the truncheon of the Prince of
Orleans was dashed from his hand by the irresistible mace of the Duke Jenkins; his horse's
shins were broken by the same weapon. Screaming with agony the animal fell. Jenkins's hand
was at the Duke's collar in a moment, and had he not gasped out, "Je me rends!" he would have
been throttled in that dreadful grasp!

Three hundred and forty-two standards, seventy-nine regiments, their baggage, ammunition, and
treasure-chests, fell into the hands of the victorious Duke. He had avenged the honor of Old
England; and himself presenting the sword of the conquered Nemours to Prince Henri, who now
came up, the Prince bursting into tears, fell on his neck and said, "Duke, I owe my crown to
my patron saint and you." It was indeed a glorious victory: but what will not British valor attain?

The Duke of Nemours, having despatched a brief note to Paris, saying, "Sire, all is lost except
honor!" was sent off in confinement; and in spite of the entreaties of his captor, was hardly
treated with decent politeness. The priests and the noble regiments who rode back when the
affair was over, were for having the Prince shot at once, and murmured loudly against "cet
Anglais brutal" who interposed in behalf of the prisoner. Henri V. granted the Prince his life;
but, no doubt misguided by the advice of his noble and ecclesiastical counsellors, treated
the illustrious English Duke with marked coldness, and did not even ask him to supper that night.

"Well!" said Jenkins, "I and my merry men can sup alone." And, indeed, having had the pick
of the plunder of about 28,000 men, they had wherewithal to make themselves pretty comfortable.
The prisoners (25,403) were all without difficulty induced to assume the white cockade. Most
of them had those marks of loyalty ready sewn in their flannel-waistcoats, where they swore
they had worn them ever since 1830. This we may believe, and we will; but the Prince Henri
was too politic or too good-humored in the moment of victory, to doubt the sincerity of his
new subjects' protestations, and received the Colonels and Generals affably at his table.

The next morning a proclamation was issued to the united armies. "Faithful soldiers of France
and Navarre," said the Prince, "the saints have won for us a great victory--the enemies of
our religion have been overcome--the lilies are restored to their native soil. Yesterday morning
at eleven o'clock the army under my command engaged that which was led by his SERENE Highness
the Duke de Nemours. Our forces were but a third in number when compared with those of the
enemy. My faithful chivalry and nobles made the strength, however, equal.

"The regiments of Fleur-d'Orange, Millefleur, and Eau-de-Cologne covered themselves with glory:
they sabred many thousands of the enemy's troops. Their valor was ably seconded by the gallantry
of my ecclesiastical friends: at a moment of danger they rallied round my banner, and forsaking
the crosier for the sword, showed that they were of the church militant indeed.

"My faithful Irish auxiliaries conducted themselves with becoming heroism--but why particularize
when all did their duty? How remember individual acts when all were heroes?" The Marshal of
France, Sucre d'Orgeville, Commander of the Army of H.M. Christian Majesty, recommended about
three thousand persons for promotion; and the indignation of Jenkins and his brave companions
may be imagined when it is stated that they were not even mentioned in the despatch!

As for the Princes of Ballybunion, Donegal, and Connemara, they wrote off despatches to their
Government, saying, "The Duke of Nemours is beaten, and a prisoner! The Irish Brigade has done
it all!" On which his Majesty the King of the Irish, convoking his Parliament at the Corn Exchange
Palace, Dublin, made a speech, in which he called Louis Philippe an "old miscreant," and paid
the highest compliments to his son and his troops. The King on this occasion knighted Sir Henry
Sheehan, Sir Gavan Duffy (whose journals had published the news), and was so delighted with
the valor of his son, that he despatched him his order of the Pig and Whistle (1st class),
and a munificent present of five hundred thousand pounds--in a bill at three months. All Dublin
was illuminated; and at a ball at the Castle the Lord Chancellor Smith (Earl of Smithereens)
getting extremely intoxicated, called out the Lord Bishop of Galway (the Dove), and they fought
in the Phoenix Park. Having shot the Right Reverend Bishop through the body, Smithereens apologized.
He was the same practitioner who had rendered himself so celebrated in the memorable trial
of the King--before the Act of Independence.

Meanwhile, the army of Prince Henri advanced with rapid strides towards Paris, whither the
History likewise must hasten; for extraordinary were the events preparing in that capital.

CHAPTER VII.

THE LEAGUER OF PARIS.

By a singular coincidence, on the very same day when the armies of Henri V. appeared before
Paris from the Western Road, those of the Emperor John Thomas Napoleon arrived from the North.
Skirmishes took place between the advanced-guards of the two parties, and much slaughter ensued.

"Bon!" thought King Louis Philippe, who examined them from his tower; "they will kill each
other. This is by far the most economical way of getting rid of them." The astute monarch's
calculations were admirably exposed by a clever remark of the Prince of Ballybunion. "Faix,
Harry," says he (with a familiarity which the punctilious son of Saint Louis resented), "you
and him yandther--the Emperor, I mane--are like the Kilkenny cats, dear."

"Et que font-ils ces chats de Kilkigny, Monsieur le Prince de Ballybunion?" asked the Most
Christian King haughtily.

Prince Daniel replied by narrating the well-known apologue of the animals "ating each other
all up but their TEELS; and that's what you and Imparial Pop yondther will do, blazing away
as ye are," added the jocose and royal boy.

"Je prie votre Altesse Royale de vaguer a ses propres affaires," answered Prince Henri sternly:
for he was an enemy to anything like a joke; but there is always wisdom in real wit, and it
would have been well for his Most Christian Majesty had he followed the facetious counsels
of his Irish ally.

The fact is, the King, Henri, had an understanding with the garrisons of some of the forts,
and expected all would declare for him. However, of the twenty-four forts which we have described,
eight only--and by the means of Marshal Soult, who had grown extremely devout of late years--declared
for Henri, and raised the white flag: while eight others, seeing Prince John Thomas Napoleon
before them in the costume of his revered predecessor, at once flung open their gates to him,
and mounted the tricolor with the eagle. The remaining eight, into which the Princes of the
blood of Orleans had thrown themselves, remained constant to Louis Philippe. Nothing could
induce that Prince to quit the Tuileries. His money was there, and he swore he would remain
by it. In vain his sons offered to bring him into one of the forts--he would not stir without
his treasure. They said they would transport it thither; but no, no: the patriarchal monarch,
putting his finger to his aged nose, and winking archly, said "he knew a trick worth two of
that," and resolved to abide by his bags.

The theatres and cafes remained open as usual: the funds rose three centimes. The Journal des
Debats published three editions of different tones of politics: one, the Journal de l'Empire,
for the Napoleonites; the Journal de la Legitimite another, very complimentary to the Legitimate
monarch; and finally, the original edition, bound heart and soul to the dynasty of July. The
poor editor, who had to write all three, complained not a little that his salary was not raised:
but the truth is, that, by altering the names, one article did indifferently for either paper.
The Duke of Brittany, under the title of Louis XVII., was always issuing manifestoes from Charenton,
but of these the Parisians took little heed: the Charivari proclaimed itself his Gazette, and
was allowed to be very witty at the expense of the three pretenders.

As the country had been ravaged for a hundred miles round, the respective Princes of course
were for throwing themselves into the forts, where there was plenty of provision; and, when
once there, they speedily began to turn out such of the garrison as were disagreeable to them,
or had an inconvenient appetite, or were of a doubtful fidelity. These poor fellows turned
into the road, had no choice but starvation; as to getting into Paris, that was impossible:
a mouse could not have got into the place, so admirably were the forts guarded, without having
his head taken off by a cannon-ball. Thus the three conflicting parties stood, close to each
other, hating each other, "willing to wound and yet afraid to strike"--the victuals in the
forts, from the prodigious increase of the garrisons, getting smaller every day. As for Louis
Philippe in his palace, in the centre of the twenty-four forts, knowing that a spark from one
might set them all blazing away, and that he and his money-bags might be blown into eternity
in ten minutes, you may fancy his situation was not very comfortable.

But his safety lay in his treasure. Neither the Imperialists nor the Bourbonites were willing
to relinquish the two hundred and fifty billions in gold; nor would the Princes of Orleans
dare to fire upon that considerable sum of money, and its possessor, their revered father.
How was this state of things to end? The Emperor sent a note to his Most Christian Majesty
(for they always styled each other in this manner in their communications), proposing that
they should turn out and decide the quarrel sword in hand; to which proposition Henri would
have acceded, but that the priests, his ghostly counsellors, threatened to excommunicate him
should he do so. Hence this simple way of settling the dispute was impossible.

The presence of the holy fathers caused considerable annoyance in the forts. Especially the
poor English, as Protestants, were subject to much petty persecution, to the no small anger
of Jenkins, their commander. And it must be confessed that these intrepid Footmen were not
so amenable to discipline as they might have been. Remembering the usages of merry England,
they clubbed together, and swore they would have four meals of meat a day, wax-candles in the
casemates, and their porter. These demands were laughed at: the priests even called upon them
to fast on Fridays; on which a general mutiny broke out in the regiment; and they would have
had a FOURTH standard raised before Paris--viz., that of England--but the garrison proving
too strong for them, they were compelled to lay down their sticks; and, in consideration of
past services, were permitted to leave the forts. 'Twas well for them! as you shall hear.

The Prince of Ballybunion and the Irish force were quartered in the fort which, in compliment
to them, was called Fort Potato, and where they made themselves as comfortable as circumstances
would admit. The Princes had as much brandy as they liked, and passed their time on the ramparts
playing at dice, or pitch-and-toss (with the halfpenny that one of them somehow had) for vast
sums of money, for which they gave their notes-of-hand. The warriors of their legion would
stand round delighted; and it was, "Musha, Master Dan, but that's a good throw!" "Good luck
to you, Misther Pat, and throw thirteen this time!" and so forth. But this sort of inaction
could not last long. They had heard of the treasures amassed in the palace of the Tuileries:
they sighed when they thought of the lack of bullion in their green and beautiful country.
They panted for war! They formed their plan.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE BATTLE OF THE FORTS.

On the morning of the 26th October, 1884, as his Majesty Louis Philippe was at breakfast reading
the Debats newspaper, and wishing that what the journal said about "Cholera Morbus in the Camp
of the Pretender Henri,"--"Chicken-pox raging in the Forts of the Traitor Bonaparte,"--might
be true, what was his surprise to hear the report of a gun; and at the same instant--whiz!
came an eighty-four-pound ball through the window and took off the head of the faithful Monsieur
de Montalivet, who was coming in with a plate of muffins.

"Three francs for the window," said the monarch; "and the muffins of course spoiled!" and he
sat down to breakfast very peevishly. Ah, King Louis Philippe, that shot cost thee more than
a window-pane--more than a plate of muffins--it cost thee a fair kingdom and fifty millions
of tax-payers.

The shot had been fired from Fort Potato. "Gracious heavens!" said the commander of the place
to the Irish Prince, in a fury, "What has your Highness done?" "Faix," replied the other, "Donegal
and I saw a sparrow on the Tuileries, and we thought we'd have a shot at it, that's all." "Hurroo!
look out for squalls," here cried the intrepid Hibernian; for at this moment one of Paixhans'
shells fell into the counterscarp of the demilune on which they were standing, and sent a ravelin
and a couple of embrasures flying about their ears.

Fort Twenty-three, which held out for Louis Philippe, seeing Fort Twenty-four, or Potato, open
a fire on the Tuileries, instantly replied by its guns, with which it blazed away at the Bourbonite
fort. On seeing this, Fort Twenty-two, occupied by the Imperialists, began pummelling Twenty-three;
Twenty-one began at Twenty-two; and in a quarter of an hour the whole of this vast line of
fortification was in a blaze of flame, flashing, roaring, cannonading, rocketing, bombing,
in the most tremendous manner. The world has never perhaps, before or since, heard such an
uproar. Fancy twenty-four thousand guns thundering at each other. Fancy the sky red with the
fires of hundreds of thousands of blazing, brazen meteors; the air thick with impenetrable
smoke--the universe almost in a flame! for the noise of the cannonading was heard on the peaks
of the Andes, and broke three windows in the English factory at Canton. Boom, boom, boom! for
three days incessantly the gigantic--I may say, Cyclopean battle went on: boom, boom, boom,
bong! The air was thick with cannon-balls: they hurtled, they jostled each other in the heavens,
and fell whizzing, whirling, crashing, back into the very forts from which they came. Boom,
boom, boom, bong--brrwrrwrrr!

On the second day a band might have been seen (had the smoke permitted it) assembling at the
sally-port of Fort Potato, and have been heard (if the tremendous clang of the cannonading
had allowed it) giving mysterious signs and countersigns. "Tom," was the word whispered, "Steele"
was the sibilated response. (It is astonishing how, in the roar of elements, THE HUMAN WHISPER
hisses above all!) It was the Irish Brigade assembling. "Now or never, boys!" said their leaders;
and sticking their doodeens into their mouths, they dropped stealthily into the trenches, heedless
of the broken glass and sword-blades; rose from those trenches; formed in silent order; and
marched to Paris. They knew they could arrive there unobserved--nobody, indeed, remarked their
absence.

The frivolous Parisians were, in the meanwhile, amusing themselves at their theatres and cafes
as usual; and a new piece, in which Arnal performed, was the universal talk of the foyers:
while a new feuilleton by Monsieur Eugene Sue, kept the attention of the reader so fascinated
to the journal, that they did not care in the least for the vacarme without the walls.

CHAPTER IX.

LOUIS XVII.

The tremendous cannonading, however, had a singular effect upon the inhabitants of the great
public hospital of Charenton, in which it may be remembered Louis XVII. had been, as in mockery,
confined. His majesty of demeanor, his calm deportment, the reasonableness of his pretensions,
had not failed to strike with awe and respect his four thousand comrades of captivity. The
Emperor of China, the Princess of the Moon, Julius Caesar, Saint Genevieve, the patron saint
of Paris, the Pope of Rome, the Cacique of Mexico, and several singular and illustrious personages
who happened to be confined there, all held a council with Louis XVII.; and all agreed that
now or never was the time to support his legitimate pretensions to the Crown of France. As
the cannons roared around them, they howled with furious delight in response. They took counsel
together: Dr. Pinel and the infamous jailers, who, under the name of keepers, held them in
horrible captivity, were pounced upon and overcome in a twinkling. The strait-waistcoats were
taken off from the wretched captives languishing in the dungeons; the guardians were invested
in these shameful garments, and with triumphant laughter plunged under the Douches. The gates
of the prison were flung open, and they marched forth in the blackness of the storm!

*****

On the third day, the cannonading was observed to decrease; only a gun went off fitfully now
and then.

*****

On the fourth day, the Parisians said to one another, "Tiens! ils sont fatigues, les cannoniers
des forts!"--and why? Because there was no more powder?--Ay, truly, there WAS no more powder.

There was no more powder, no more guns, no more gunners, no more forts, no more nothing. THE
FORTS HAD BLOWN EACH OTHER UP. The battle-roar ceased. The battle-clouds rolled off. The silver
moon, the twinkling stars, looked blandly down from the serene azure,--and all was peace--stillness--the
stillness of death. Holy, holy silence!

Yes: the battle of Paris was over. And where were the combatants? All gone--not one left!--And
where was Louis Philippe? The venerable Prince was a captive in the Tuileries; the Irish Brigade
was encamped around it: they had reached the palace a little too late; it was already occupied
by the partisans of his Majesty Louis XVII.

That respectable monarch and his followers better knew the way to the Tuileries than the ignorant
sons of Erin. They burst through the feeble barriers of the guards; they rushed triumphant
into the kingly halls of the palace; they seated the seventeenth Louis on the throne of his
ancestors; and the Parisians read in the Journal des Debats, of the fifth of November; an important
article, which proclaimed that the civil war was concluded:--

"The troubles which distracted the greatest empire in the world are at an end. Europe, which
marked with sorrow the disturbances which agitated the bosom of the Queen of Nations, the great
leader of Civilization, may now rest in peace. That monarch whom we have long been sighing
for; whose image has lain hidden, and yet oh! how passionately worshipped, in every French
heart, is with us once more. Blessings be on him; blessings--a thousand blessings upon the
happy country which is at length restored to his beneficent, his legitimate, his reasonable sway!

"His Most Christian Majesty Louis XVII. yesterday arrived at his palace of the Tulleries, accompanied
by his august allies. His Royal Highness the Duke of Orleans has resigned his post as Lieutenant-General
of the kingdom, and will return speedily to take up his abode at the Palais Royal. It is a
great mercy that the children of his Royal Highness, who happened to be in the late forts round
Paris, (before the bombardment which has so happily ended in their destruction,) had returned
to their father before the commencement of the cannonading. They will continue, as heretofore,
to be the most loyal supporters of order and the throne.

"None can read without tears in their eyes our august monarch's proclamation.

"'Louis, by &c.--

"'My children! After nine hundred and ninety-nine years of captivity, I am restored to you.
The cycle of events predicted by the ancient Magi, and the planetary convolutions mentioned
in the lost Sibylline books, have fulfilled their respective idiosyncrasies, and ended (as
always in the depths of my dungeons I confidently expected) in the triumph of the good Angel,
and the utter discomfiture of the abominable Blue Dragon.

"'When the bombarding began, and the powers of darkness commenced their hellish gunpowder evolutions,
I was close by--in my palace of Charenton, three hundred and thirty-three thousand miles off,
in the ring of Saturn--I witnessed your misery. My heart was affected by it, and I said, "Is
the multiplication-table a fiction? are the signs of the Zodiac mere astronomers' prattle?"

"'I clapped chains, shrieking and darkness, on my physician, Dr. Pinel. The keepers I shall
cause to be roasted alive. I summoned my allies round about me. The high contracting Powers
came to my bidding: monarchs from all parts of the earth; sovereigns from the Moon and other
illumined orbits; the white necromancers, and the pale imprisoned genii. I whispered the mystic
sign, and the doors flew open. We entered Paris in triumph, by the Charenton bridge. Our luggage
was not examined at the Octroi. The bottle-green ones were scared at our shouts, and retreated,
howling: they knew us, and trembled.

"'My faithful Peers and Deputies will rally around me. I have a friend in Turkey--the Grand
Vizier of the Mussulmans: he was a Protestant once--Lord Brougham by name. I have sent to him
to legislate for us: he is wise in the law, and astrology, and all sciences; he shall aid my
Ministers in their councils. I have written to him by the post. There shall be no more infamous
mad-houses in France, where poor souls shiver in strait-waistcoats.

"'I recognized Louis Philippe, my good cousin. He was in his counting-house, counting out his
money, as the old prophecy warned me. He gave me up the keys of his gold; I shall know well
how to use it. Taught by adversity, I am not a spendthrift, neither am I a miser. I will endow
the land with noble institutions instead of diabolical forts. I will have no more cannon founded.
They are a curse and shall be melted--the iron ones into railroads; the bronze ones into statues
of beautiful saints, angels, and wise men; the copper ones into money, to be distributed among
my poor. I was poor once, and I love them.

"'There shall be no more poverty; no more wars; no more avarice; no more passports; no more
custom-houses; no more lying: no more physic.

"'My Chambers will put the seal to these reforms. I will it. I am the king.

(Signed) 'Louis.'"

"Some alarm was created yesterday by the arrival of a body of the English Foot-Guard under
the Duke of Jenkins; they were at first about to sack the city, but on hearing that the banner
of the lilies was once more raised in France, the Duke hastened to the Tuileries, and offered
his allegiance to his Majesty. It was accepted: and the Plush Guard has been established in
place of the Swiss, who waited on former sovereigns."

"The Irish Brigade quartered in the Tuileries are to enter our service. Their commander states
that they took every one of the forts round Paris, and having blown them up, were proceeding
to release Louis XVII., when they found that august monarch, happily, free. News of their glorious
victory has been conveyed to Dublin, to his Majesty the King of the Irish. It will be a new
laurel to add to his green crown!"

And thus have we brought to a conclusion our history of the great French Revolution of 1884.
It records the actions of great and various characters; the deeds of various valor; it narrates
wonderful reverses of fortune; it affords the moralist scope for his philosophy; perhaps it
gives amusement to the merely idle reader. Nor must the latter imagine, because there is not
a precise moral affixed to the story, that its tendency is otherwise than good. He is a poor
reader, for whom his author is obliged to supply a moral application. It is well in spelling-books
and for children; it is needless for the reflecting spirit. The drama of Punch himself is not
moral: but that drama has had audiences all over the world. Happy he, who in our dark times
can cause a smile! Let us laugh then, and gladden in the sunshine, though it be but as the
ray upon the pool, that flickers only over the cold black depths below!

COX'S DIARY.

THE ANNOUNCEMENT.

On the 1st of January, 1838, I was the master of a lovely shop in the neighborhood of Oxford
Market; of a wife, Mrs. Cox; of a business, both in the shaving and cutting line, established
three-and-thirty years; of a girl and boy respectively of the ages of eighteen and thirteen;
of a three-windowed front, both to my first and second pair; of a young foreman, my present
partner, Mr. Orlando Crump; and of that celebrated mixture for the human hair, invented by
my late uncle, and called Cox's Bohemian Balsam of Tokay, sold in pots at two-and-three and
three-and-nine. The balsam, the lodgings, and the old-established cutting and shaving business
brought me in a pretty genteel income. I had my girl, Jemimarann, at Hackney, to school; my
dear boy, Tuggeridge, plaited her hair beautifully; my wife at the counter (behind the tray
of patent soaps, &c.) cut as handsome a figure as possible; and it was my hope that Orlando
and my girl, who were mighty soft upon one another, would one day be joined together in Hyming,
and, conjointly with my son Tug, carry on the business of hairdressers when their father was
either dead or a gentleman: for a gentleman me and Mrs. C. determined I should be.

Jemima was, you see, a lady herself, and of very high connections: though her own family had
met with crosses, and was rather low. Mr. Tuggeridge, her father, kept the famous tripe-shop
near the "Pigtail and Sparrow," in the Whitechapel Road; from which place I married her; being
myself very fond of the article, and especially when she served it to me--the dear thing!

Jemima's father was not successful in business: and I married her, I am proud to confess it,
without a shilling. I had my hands, my house, and my Bohemian balsam to support her!--and we
had hopes from her uncle, a mighty rich East India merchant, who, having left this country
sixty years ago as a cabin-boy, had arrived to be the head of a great house in India, and was
worth millions, we were told.

Three years after Jemimarann's birth (and two after the death of my lamented father-in-law),
Tuggeridge (head of the great house of Budgurow and Co.) retired from the management of it;
handed over his shares to his son, Mr. John Tuggeridge, and came to live in England, at Portland
Place, and Tuggeridgeville, Surrey, and enjoy himself. Soon after, my wife took her daughter
in her hand and went, as in duty bound, to visit her uncle: but whether it was that he was
proud and surly, or she somewhat sharp in her way, (the dear girl fears nobody, let me have
you to know,) a desperate quarrel took place between them; and from that day to the day of
his death, he never set eyes on her. All that he would condescend to do, was to take a few
dozen of lavender-water from us in the course of the year, and to send his servants to be cut
and shaved by us. All the neighbors laughed at this poor ending of our expectations, for Jemmy
had bragged not a little; however, we did not care, for the connection was always a good one,
and we served Mr. Hock, the valet; Mr. Bar, the coachman; and Mrs. Breadbasket, the housekeeper,
willingly enough. I used to powder the footman, too, on great days, but never in my life saw
old Tuggeridge, except once: when he said "Oh, the barber!" tossed up his nose, and passed on.

One day--one famous day last January--all our Market was thrown into a high state of excitement
by the appearance of no less than three vehicles at our establishment. As me, Jemmy, my daughter,
Tug, and Orlando, were sitting in the back-parlor over our dinner (it being Christmas-time,
Mr. Crump had treated the ladies to a bottle of port, and was longing that there should be
a mistletoe-bough: at which proposal my little Jemimarann looked as red as a glass of negus):--we
had just, I say, finished the port, when, all of a sudden, Tug bellows out, "La, Pa, here's
uncle Tuggeridge's housekeeper in a cab!"

And Mrs. Breadbasket it was, sure enough--Mrs. Breadbasket in deep mourning, who made her way,
bowing and looking very sad, into the back shop. My wife, who respected Mrs. B. more than anything
else in the world, set her a chair, offered her a glass of wine, and vowed it was very kind
of her to come. "La, mem," says Mrs. B., "I'm sure I'd do anything to serve your family, for
the sake of that poor dear Tuck-Tuck-tug-guggeridge, that's gone."

"That's what?" cries my wife.

"What, gone?" cried Jemimarann, bursting out crying (as little girls will about anything or
nothing); and Orlando looking very rueful, and ready to cry too.

"Yes, gaw--" Just as she was at this very "gaw" Tug roars out, "La, Pa! here's Mr. Bar, uncle
Tug's coachman!"

It was Mr. Bar. When she saw him, Mrs. Breadbasket stepped suddenly back into the parlor with
my ladies. "What is it, Mr. Bar?" says I; and as quick as thought, I had the towel under his
chin, Mr. Bar in the chair, and the whole of his face in a beautiful foam of lather. Mr. Bar
made some resistance.--"Don't think of it, Mr. Cox," says he; "don't trouble yourself, sir."
But I lathered away and never minded. "And what's this melancholy event, sir," says I, "that
has spread desolation in your family's bosoms? I can feel for your loss, sir--I can feel for
your loss."

I said so out of politeness, because I served the family, not because Tuggeridge was my uncle--no,
as such I disown him.

Mr. Bar was just about to speak. "Yes, sir," says he, "my master's gaw--" when at the "gaw"
in walks Mr. Hock, the own man!--the finest gentleman I ever saw.

"What, YOU here, Mr. Bar!" says he.

"Yes, I am, sir; and haven't I a right, sir?"

"A mighty wet day, sir," says I to Mr. Hock--stepping up and making my bow. "A sad circumstance
too, sir! And is it a turn of the tongs that you want to-day, sir? Ho, there, Mr. Crump!"

"Turn, Mr. Crump, if you please, sir," said Mr. Hock, making a bow: "but from you, sir, never--no,
never, split me!--and I wonder how some fellows can have the INSOLENCE to allow their MASTERS
to shave them!" With this, Mr. Hock flung himself down to be curled: Mr. Bar suddenly opened
his mouth in order to reply; but seeing there was a tiff between the gentlemen, and wanting
to prevent a quarrel, I rammed the Advertiser into Mr. Hock's hands, and just popped my shaving-brush
into Mr. Bar's mouth--a capital way to stop angry answers.

Mr. Bar had hardly been in the chair one second, when whir comes a hackney-coach to the door,
from which springs a gentleman in a black coat with a bag.

"What, you here!" says the gentleman. I could not help smiling, for it seemed that everybody
was to begin by saying, "What, YOU here!" "Your name is Cox, sir?" says he; smiling too, as
the very pattern of mine. "My name, sir, is Sharpus,--Blunt, Hone and Sharpus, Middle Temple
Lane,--and I am proud to salute you, sir; happy,--that is to say, sorry to say that Mr. Tuggeridge,
of Portland Place, is dead, and your lady is heiress, in consequence, to one of the handsomest
properties in the kingdom."

At this I started, and might have sunk to the ground, but for my hold of Mr. Bar's nose; Orlando
seemed putrified to stone, with his irons fixed to Mr. Hock's head; our respective patients
gave a wince out:--Mrs. C., Jemimarann, and Tug, rushed from the back shop, and we formed a
splendid tableau such as the great Cruikshank might have depicted.

"And Mr. John Tuggeridge, sir?" says I.

"Why--hee, hee, hee!" says Mr. Sharpus. "Surely you know that he was only the--hee, hee, hee!--the
natural son!"

You now can understand why the servants from Portland Place had been so eager to come to us.
One of the house-maids heard Mr. Sharpus say there was no will, and that my wife was heir to
the property, and not Mr. John Tuggeridge: this she told in the housekeeper's room; and off,
as soon as they heard it, the whole party set, in order to be the first to bear the news.

We kept them, every one in their old places; for, though my wife would have sent them about
their business, my dear Jemimarann just hinted, "Mamma, you know THEY have been used to great
houses, and we have not; had we not better keep them for a little?"--Keep them, then, we did,
to show us how to be gentlefolks.

I handed over the business to Mr. Crump without a single farthing of premium, though Jemmy
would have made me take four hundred pounds for it; but this I was above: Crump had served
me faithfully, and have the shop he should.

FIRST ROUT.

We were speedily installed in our fine house: but what's a house without friends? Jemmy made
me CUT all my old acquaintances in the Market, and I was a solitary being; when, luckily, an
old acquaintance of ours, Captain Tagrag, was so kind as to promise to introduce us into distinguished
society. Tagrag was the son of a baronet, and had done us the honor of lodging with us for
two years; when we lost sight of him, and of his little account, too, by the way. A fortnight
after, hearing of our good fortune, he was among us again, however; and Jemmy was not a little
glad to see him, knowing him to be a baronet's son, and very fond of our Jemimarann. Indeed,
Orlando (who is as brave as a lion) had on one occasion absolutely beaten Mr. Tagrag for being
rude to the poor girl: a clear proof, as Tagrag said afterwards, that he was always fond of her.

Mr. Crump, poor fellow, was not very much pleased by our good fortune, though he did all he
could to try at first; and I told him to come and take his dinner regular, as if nothing had
happened. But to this Jemima very soon put a stop, for she came very justly to know her stature,
and to look down on Crump, which she bid her daughter to do; and, after a great scene, in which
Orlando showed himself very rude and angry, he was forbidden the house--for ever!

So much for poor Crump. The Captain was now all in all with us. "You see, sir," our Jemmy would
say, "we shall have our town and country mansion, and a hundred and thirty thousand pounds
in the funds, to leave between our two children; and, with such prospects, they ought surely
to have the first society of England." To this Tagrag agreed, and promised to bring us acquainted
with the very pink of the fashion; ay, and what's more, did.

First, he made my wife get an opera-box, and give suppers on Tuesdays and Saturdays. As for
me, he made me ride in the Park: me and Jemimarann, with two grooms behind us, who used to
laugh all the way, and whose very beards I had shaved. As for little Tug, he was sent straight
off to the most fashionable school in the kingdom, the Reverend Doctor Pigney's, at Richmond.

Well, the horses, the suppers, the opera-box, the paragraphs in the papers about Mr. Coxe Coxe
(that's the way: double your name and stick an "e" to the end of it, and you are a gentleman
at once), had an effect in a wonderfully short space of time, and we began to get a very pretty
society about us. Some of old Tug's friends swore they would do anything for the family, and
brought their wives and daughters to see dear Mrs. Coxe and her charming girl; and when, about
the first week in February, we announced a grand dinner and ball for the evening of the twenty-eighth,
I assure you there was no want of company: no, nor of titles neither; and it always does my
heart good even to hear one mentioned.

Let me see. There was, first, my Lord Dunboozle, an Irish peer, and his seven sons, the Honorable
Messieurs Trumper (two only to dinner): there was Count Mace, the celebrated French nobleman,
and his Excellency Baron von Punter from Baden; there was Lady Blanche Bluenose, the eminent
literati, author of "The Distrusted" "The Distorted," "The Disgusted," "The Disreputable One,"
and other poems; there was the Dowager Lady Max and her daughter, the Honorable Miss Adelaide
Blueruin; Sir Charles Codshead, from the City; and Field-Marshal Sir Gorman O'Gallagher, K.A.,
K.B., K.C., K.W., K.X., in the service of the Republic of Guatemala: my friend Tagrag and his
fashionable acquaintance, little Tom Tufthunt, made up the party. And when the doors were flung
open, and Mr. Hock, in black, with a white napkin, three footmen, coachman, and a lad whom
Mrs. C. had dressed in sugar-loaf buttons and called a page, were seen round the dinner-table,
all in white gloves, I promise you I felt a thrill of elation, and thought to myself--Sam Cox,
Sam Cox, who ever would have expected to see you here?

After dinner, there was to be, as I said, an evening-party; and to this Messieurs Tagrag and
Tufthunt had invited many of the principal nobility that our metropolis had produced. When
I mention, among the company to tea, her Grace the Duchess of Zero, her son the Marquis of
Fitzurse, and the Ladies North Pole her daughters; when I say that there were yet OTHERS, whose
names may be found in the Blue Book, but shan't, out of modesty, be mentioned here, I think
I've said enough to show that, in our time, No. 96, Portland Place, was the resort of the best
of company.

It was our first dinner, and dressed by our new cook, Munseer Cordongblew. I bore it very well;
eating, for my share, a filly dysol allamater dotell, a cutlet soubeast, a pully bashymall,
and other French dishes: and, for the frisky sweet wine, with tin tops to the bottles, called
Champang, I must say that me and Mrs. Coxe-Tuggeridge Coxe drank a very good share of it (but
the Claret and Jonnysberger, being sour, we did not much relish). However, the feed, as I say,
went off very well: Lady Blanche Bluenose sitting next to me, and being so good as to put me
down for six copies of all her poems; the Count and Baron von Punter engaging Jemimarann for
several waltzes, and the Field-Marshal plying my dear Jemmy with Champagne, until, bless her!
her dear nose became as red as her new crimson satin gown, which, with a blue turban and bird-of-paradise
feathers, made her look like an empress, I warrant.

Well, dinner past, Mrs. C. and the ladies went off:--thunder-under-under came the knocks at
the door; squeedle-eedle-eedle, Mr. Wippert's fiddlers began to strike up; and, about half-past
eleven, me and the gents thought it high time to make our appearance. I felt a LITTLE squeamish
at the thought of meeting a couple of hundred great people; but Count Mace and Sir Gorman O'Gallagher
taking each an arm, we reached, at last, the drawing-room.

The young ones in company were dancing, and the Duchess and the great ladies were all seated,
talking to themselves very stately, and working away at the ices and macaroons. I looked out
for my pretty Jemimarann amongst the dancers, and saw her tearing round the room along with
Baron Punter, in what they call a gallypard; then I peeped into the circle of the Duchesses,
where, in course, I expected to find Mrs. C.; but she wasn't there! She was seated at the further
end of the room, looking very sulky; and I went up and took her arm, and brought her down to
the place where the Duchesses were. "Oh, not there!" said Jemmy, trying to break away. "Nonsense,
my dear," says I: "you are missis, and this is your place." Then going up to her ladyship the
Duchess, says I, "Me and my missis are most proud of the honor of seeing of you."

The Duchess (a tall red-haired grenadier of a woman) did not speak.

I went on: "The young ones are all at it, ma'am, you see; and so we thought we would come and
sit down among the old ones. You and I, ma'am, I think, are too stiff to dance."

"Sir!" says her Grace.

"Ma'am," says I, "don't you know me? My name's Cox. Nobody's introduced me; but, dash it, it's
my own house, and I may present myself--so give us your hand, ma'am."

And I shook hers in the kindest way in the world; but--would you believe it?--the old cat screamed
as if my hand had been a hot 'tater. "Fitzurse! Fitzurse!" shouted she, "help! help!" Up scuffled
all the other Dowagers--in rushed the dancers. "Mamma! mamma!" squeaked Lady Julia North Pole.
"Lead me to my mother," howled Lady Aurorer: and both came up and flung themselves into her
arms. "Wawt's the raw?" said Lord Fitzurse, sauntering up quite stately.

"Protect me from the insults of this man," says her Grace. "Where's Tufthunt? he promised that
not a soul in this house should speak to me."

"My dear Duchess," said Tufthunt, very meek.

"Don't Duchess ME, sir. Did you not promise they should not speak; and hasn't that horrid tipsy
wretch offered to embrace me? Didn't his monstrous wife sicken me with her odious familiarities?
Call my people, Tufthunt! Follow me, my children!"

"And my carriage," "And mine," "And mine!" shouted twenty more voices. And down they all trooped
to the hall: Lady Blanche Bluenose and Lady Max among the very first; leaving only the Field-Marshal
and one or two men, who roared with laughter ready to split.

"Oh, Sam," said my wife, sobbing, "why would you take me back to them? they had sent me away
before! I only asked the Duchess whether she didn't like rum-shrub better than all your Maxarinos
and Curasosos: and--would you believe it?--all the company burst out laughing; and the Duchess
told me just to keep off, and not to speak till I was spoken to. Imperence! I'd like to tear
her eyes out."

And so I do believe my dearest Jemmy would!

A DAY WITH THE SURREY HOUNDS.

Our ball had failed so completely that Jemmy, who was bent still upon fashion, caught eagerly
at Tagrag's suggestion, and went down to Tuggeridgeville. If we had a difficulty to find friends
in town, here there was none: for the whole county came about us, ate our dinners and suppers,
danced at our balls--ay, and spoke to us too. We were great people in fact: I a regular country
gentleman; and as such, Jemmy insisted that I should be a sportsman, and join the county hunt.
"But," says I, "my love, I can't ride." "Pooh! Mr. C." said she, "you're always making difficulties:
you thought you couldn't dance a quadrille; you thought you couldn't dine at seven o'clock;
you thought you couldn't lie in bed after six; and haven't you done every one of these things?
You must and you shall ride!" And when my Jemmy said "must and shall," I knew very well there
was nothing for it: so I sent down fifty guineas to the hunt, and, out of compliment to me,
the very next week, I received notice that the meet of the hounds would take place at Squashtail
Common, just outside my lodge-gates.

I didn't know what a meet was; and me and Mrs. C. agreed that it was most probable the dogs
were to be fed there. However, Tagrag explained this matter to us, and very kindly promised
to sell me a horse, a delightful animal of his own; which, being desperately pressed for money,
he would let me have for a hundred guineas, he himself having given a hundred and fifty for it.

Well, the Thursday came: the hounds met on Squashtail Common; Mrs. C. turned out in her barouche
to see us throw off; and, being helped up on my chestnut horse, Trumpeter, by Tagrag and my
head groom, I came presently round to join them.

Tag mounted his own horse; and, as we walked down the avenue, "I thought," he said, "you told
me you knew how to ride; and that you had ridden once fifty miles on a stretch!"

"And so I did," says I, "to Cambridge, and on the box too."

"ON THE BOX!" says he; "but did you ever mount a horse before?"

"Never," says I, "but I find it mighty easy."

"Well," says he, "you're mighty bold for a barber; and I like you, Coxe, for your spirit."
And so we came out of the gate.

As for describing the hunt, I own, fairly, I can't. I've been at a hunt, but what a hunt is--why
the horses WILL go among the dogs and ride them down--why the men cry out "yooooic"--why the
dogs go snuffing about in threes and fours, and the huntsman says, "Good Towler--good Betsy,"
and we all of us after him say, "Good Towler--good Betsy" in course: then, after hearing a
yelp here and a howl there, tow, row, yow, yow, yow! burst out, all of a sudden, from three
or four of them, and the chap in a velvet cap screeches out (with a number of oaths I shan't
repeat here), "Hark, to Ringwood!" and then, "There he goes!" says some one; and all of a sudden,
helter skelter, skurry hurry, slap bang, whooping, screeching and hurraing, blue-coats and
red-coats, bays and grays, horses, dogs, donkeys, butchers, baro-knights, dustmen, and blackguard
boys, go tearing all together over the common after two or three of the pack that yowl loudest.
Why all this is, I can't say; but it all took place the second Thursday of last March, in my
presence.

Up to this, I'd kept my seat as well as the best, for we'd only been trotting gently about
the field until the dogs found; and I managed to stick on very well; but directly the tow-rowing
began, off went Trumpeter like a thunderbolt, and I found myself playing among the dogs like
the donkey among the chickens. "Back, Mr. Coxe," holloas the huntsman; and so I pulled very
hard, and cried out, "Wo!" but he wouldn't; and on I went galloping for the dear life. How
I kept on is a wonder; but I squeezed my knees in very tight, and shoved my feet very hard
into the stirrups, and kept stiff hold of the scruff of Trumpeter's neck, and looked betwixt
his ears as well as ever I could, and trusted to luck: for I was in a mortal fright, sure enough,
as many a better man would be in such a case, let alone a poor hairdresser.

As for the hounds, after my first riding in among them, I tell you honestly, I never saw so
much as the tip of one of their tails; nothing in this world did I see except Trumpeter's dun-colored
mane, and that I gripped firm: riding, by the blessing of luck, safe through the walking, the
trotting, the galloping, and never so much as getting a tumble.

There was a chap at Croydon very well known as the "Spicy Dustman," who, when he could get
no horse to ride to the hounds, turned regularly out on his donkey; and on this occasion made
one of us. He generally managed to keep up with the dogs by trotting quietly through the cross-roads,
and knowing the country well. Well, having a good guess where the hounds would find, and the
line that sly Reynolds (as they call the fox) would take, the Spicy Dustman turned his animal
down the lane from Squashtail to Cutshins Common; across which, sure enough, came the whole
hunt. There's a small hedge and a remarkably fine ditch here: some of the leading chaps took
both, in gallant style; others went round by a gate, and so would I, only I couldn't; for Trumpeter
would have the hedge, and be hanged to him, and went right for it.

Hoop! if ever you DID try a leap! Out go your legs, out fling your arms, off goes your hat;
and the next thing you feel--that is, I did--is a most tremendous thwack across the chest,
and my feet jerked out of the stirrups: me left in the branches of a tree; Trumpeter gone clean
from under me, and walloping and floundering in the ditch underneath. One of the stirrup-leathers
had caught in a stake, and the horse couldn't get away: and neither of us, I thought, ever
WOULD have got away: but all of a sudden, who should come up the lane but the Spicy Dustman!

"Holloa!" says I, "you gent, just let us down from this here tree!"

"Lor'!" says he, "I'm blest if I didn't take you for a robin."

"Let's down," says I; but he was all the time employed in disengaging Trumpeter, whom he got
out of the ditch, trembling and as quiet as possible. "Let's down," says I. "Presently," says
he; and taking off his coat, he begins whistling and swishing down Trumpeter's sides and saddle;
and when he had finished, what do you think the rascal did?--he just quietly mounted on Trumpeter's
back, and shouts out, "Git down yourself, old Bearsgrease; you've only to drop! I'LL give your
'oss a hairing arter them 'ounds; and you--vy, you may ride back my pony to Tuggeridgeweal!"
And with this, I'm blest if he didn't ride away, leaving me holding, as for the dear life,
and expecting every minute the branch would break.

It DID break too, and down I came into the slush; and when I got out of it, I can tell you
I didn't look much like the Venuses or the Apollor Belvidearis what I used to dress and titivate
up for my shop window when I was in the hairdressing line, or smell quite so elegant as our
rose-oil. Faugh! what a figure I was!

I had nothing for it but to mount the dustman's donkey (which was very quietly cropping grass
in the hedge), and to make my way home; and after a weary, weary journey, I arrived at my own gate.

A whole party was assembled there. Tagrag, who had come back; their Excellencies Mace and Punter,
who were on a visit; and a number of horses walking up and down before the whole of the gentlemen
of the hunt, who had come in after losing their fox! "Here's Squire Coxe!" shouted the grooms.
Out rushed the servants, out poured the gents of the hunt, and on trotted poor me, digging
into the donkey, and everybody dying with laughter at me.

Just as I got up to the door, a horse came galloping up, and passed me; a man jumped down,
and taking off a fantail hat, came up, very gravely, to help me down.

"Squire," says he, "how came you by that there hanimal? Jist git down, will you, and give it
to its howner?"

"Rascal!" says I, "didn't you ride off on my horse?"

"Was there ever sich ingratitude?" says the Spicy. "I found this year 'oss in a pond, I saves
him from drowning, I brings him back to his master, and he calls me a rascal!"

The grooms, the gents, the ladies in the balcony, my own servants, all set up a roar at this;
and so would I, only I was so deucedly ashamed, as not to be able to laugh just then.

And so my first day's hunting ended. Tagrag and the rest declared I showed great pluck, and
wanted me to try again; but "No," says I, "I HAVE been."

THE FINISHING TOUCH.

I was always fond of billiards: and, in former days, at Grogram's in Greek Street, where a
few jolly lads of my acquaintance used to meet twice a week for a game, and a snug pipe and
beer, I was generally voted the first man of the club; and could take five from John the marker
himself. I had a genius, in fact, for the game; and now that I was placed in that station of
life where I could cultivate my talents, I gave them full play, and improved amazingly. I do
say that I think myself as good a hand as any chap in England.

The Count and his Excellency Baron von Punter were, I can tell you, astonished by the smartness
of my play: the first two or three rubbers Punter beat me, but when I came to know his game,
I used to knock him all to sticks; or, at least, win six games to his four: and such was the
betting upon me; his Excellency losing large sums to the Count, who knew what play was, and
used to back me. I did not play except for shillings, so my skill was of no great service to me.

One day I entered the billiard-room where these three gentlemen were high in words. "The thing
shall not be done," I heard Captain Tagrag say: "I won't stand it."

"Vat, begause you would have de bird all to yourzelf, hey?" said the Baron.

"You sall not have a single fezare of him, begar," said the Count: "ve vill blow you, M. de
Taguerague; parole d'honneur, ve vill."

"What's all this, gents," says I, stepping in, "about birds and feathers?"

"Oh," says Tagrag, "we were talking about--about--pigeon-shooting; the Count here says he will
blow a bird all to pieces at twenty yards, and I said I wouldn't stand it, because it was regular
murder."

"Oh, yase, it was bidgeon-shooting," cries the Baron: "and I know no better sbort. Have you
been bidgeon-shooting, my dear Squire? De fon is gabidal."

"No doubt," says I, "for the shooters, but mighty bad sport for the PIGEON." And this joke
set them all a-laughing ready to die. I didn't know then what a good joke it WAS, neither;
but I gave Master Baron, that day, a precious good beating, and walked off with no less than
fifteen shillings of his money.

As a sporting man, and a man of fashion, I need not say that I took in the Flare-up regularly;
ay, and wrote one or two trifles in that celebrated publication (one of my papers, which Tagrag
subscribed for me, Philo-pestitiaeamicus, on the proper sauce for teal and widgeon--and the
other, signed Scru-tatos, on the best means of cultivating the kidney species of that vegetable--made
no small noise at the time, and got me in the paper a compliment from the editor). I was a
constant reader of the Notices to Correspondents, and, my early education having been rayther
neglected (for I was taken from my studies and set, as is the custom in our trade, to practise
on a sheep's head at the tender age of nine years, before I was allowed to venture on the humane
countenance,)--I say, being thus curtailed and cut off in my classical learning, I must confess
I managed to pick up a pretty smattering of genteel information from that treasury of all sorts
of knowledge; at least sufficient to make me a match in learning for all the noblemen and gentlemen
who came to our house. Well, on looking over the Flare-up notices to correspondents, I read,
one day last April, among the notices, as follows:--

"'Automodon.' We do not know the precise age of Mr. Baker of Covent Garden Theatre; nor are
we aware if that celebrated son of Thespis is a married man.

"'Ducks and Green-peas' is informed, that when A plays his rook to B's second Knight's square,
and B, moving two squares with his Queen's pawn, gives check to his adversary's Queen, there
is no reason why B's Queen should not take A's pawn, if B be so inclined.

"'F. L. S.' We have repeatedly answered the question about Madame Vestris: her maiden name
was Bartolozzi, and she married the son of Charles Mathews, the celebrated comedian.

"'Fair Play.' The best amateur billiard and ecarte player in England, is Coxe Tuggeridge Coxe,
Esq., of Portland Place, and Tuggeridgeville: Jonathan, who knows his play, can only give him
two in a game of a hundred; and, at the cards, NO man is his superior. Verbum sap.

"'Scipio Americanus' is a blockhead."

I read this out to the Count and Tagrag, and both of them wondered how the Editor of that tremendous
Flare-up should get such information; and both agreed that the Baron, who still piqued himself
absurdly on his play, would be vastly annoyed by seeing me preferred thus to himself. We read
him the paragraph, and preciously angry he was. "Id is," he cried, "the tables" (or "de DABELS,"
as he called them),--"de horrid dabels; gom viz me to London, and dry a slate-table, and I
vill beat you." We all roared at this; and the end of the dispute was, that, just to satisfy
the fellow, I agreed to play his Excellency at slate-tables, or any tables he chose.

"Gut," says he, "gut; I lif, you know, at Abednego's, in de Quadrant; his dabels is goot; ve
vill blay dere, if you vill." And I said I would: and it was agreed that, one Saturday night,
when Jemmy was at the Opera, we should go to the Baron's rooms, and give him a chance.

We went, and the little Baron had as fine a supper as ever I saw: lots of Champang (and I didn't
mind drinking it), and plenty of laughing and fun. Afterwards, down we went to billiards. "Is
dish Misther Coxsh, de shelebrated player?" says Mr. Abednego, who was in the room, with one
or two gentlemen of his own persuasion, and several foreign noblemen, dirty, snuffy, and hairy,
as them foreigners are. "Is dish Misther Coxsh? blesh my hart, it is a honor to see you; I
have heard so much of your play."

"Come, come," says I, "sir"--for I'm pretty wide awake--"none of your gammon; you're not going
to book ME."

"No, begar, dis fish you not catch," says Count Mace.

"Dat is gut!--haw! haw!" snorted the Baron. "Hook him! Lieber Himmel, you might dry and hook
me as well. Haw! haw!"

Well, we went to play. "Five to four on Coxe," screams out the Count.--"Done and done," says
another nobleman. "Ponays," says the Count.--"Done," says the nobleman. "I vill take your six
crowns to four," says the Baron.--"Done," says I. And, in the twinkling of an eye, I beat him
once making thirteen off the balls without stopping.

We had some more wine after this; and if you could have seen the long faces of the other noblemen,
as they pulled out their pencils and wrote I.O.U.'s for the Count! "Va toujours, mon cher,"
says he to me, "you have von for me three hundred pounds."

"I'll blay you guineas dis time," says the Baron. "Zeven to four you must give me though."
And so I did: and in ten minutes THAT game was won, and the Baron handed over his pounds. "Two
hundred and sixty more, my dear, dear Coxe," says the Count: "you are mon ange gardien!" "Wot
a flat Misther Coxsh is, not to back his luck," I hoard Abednego whisper to one of the foreign
noblemen.

"I'll take your seven to four, in tens," said I to the Baron. "Give me three," says he, "and
done." I gave him three, and lost the game by one. "Dobbel, or quits," says he. "Go it," says
I, up to my mettle: "Sam Coxe never says no;" and to it we went. I went in, and scored eighteen
to his five. "Holy Moshesh!" says Abednego, "dat little Coxsh is a vonder! who'll take odds?"

"I'll give twenty to one," says I, "in guineas."

"Ponays; yase, done," screams out the Count.

"BONIES, done," roars out the Baron: and, before I could speak, went in, and--would you believe
it?--in two minutes he somehow made the game!

*****

Oh, what a figure I cut when my dear Jemmy heard of this afterwards! In vain I swore it was
guineas: the Count and the Baron swore to ponies; and when I refused, they both said their
honor was concerned, and they must have my life, or their money. So when the Count showed me
actually that, in spite of this bet (which had been too good to resist) won from me, he had
been a very heavy loser by the night; and brought me the word of honor of Abednego, his Jewish
friend, and the foreign noblemen, that ponies had been betted;--why, I paid them one thousand
pounds sterling of good and lawful money.--But I've not played for money since: no, no; catch
me at THAT again if you can.

A NEW DROP-SCENE AT THE OPERA.

No lady is a lady without having a box at the Opera: so my Jemmy, who knew as much about music,--bless
her!--as I do about Sanscrit, algebra, or any other foreign language, took a prime box on the
second tier. It was what they called a double box; it really COULD hold two, that is, very
comfortably; and we got it a great bargain--for five hundred a year! Here, Tuesdays and Saturdays,
we used regularly to take our places, Jemmy and Jemimarann sitting in front; me, behind: but
as my dear wife used to wear a large fantail gauze hat with ostrich feathers, birds-of-paradise,
artificial flowers, and tags of muslin or satin, scattered all over it, I'm blest if she didn't
fill the whole of the front of the box; and it was only by jumping and dodging, three or four
times in the course of the night, that I could manage to get a sight of the actors. By kneeling
down, and looking steady under my darling Jemmy's sleeve, I DID contrive, every now and then,
to have a peep of Senior Lablash's boots, in the "Puritanny," and once actually saw Madame
Greasi's crown and head-dress in "Annybalony."

What a place that Opera is, to be sure! and what enjoyments us aristocracy used to have! Just
as you have swallowed down your three courses (three curses I used to call them;--for so, indeed,
they are, causing a deal of heartburns, headaches, doctor's bills, pills, want of sleep, and
such like)--just, I say, as you get down your three courses, which I defy any man to enjoy
properly unless he has two hours of drink and quiet afterwards, up comes the carriage, in bursts
my Jemmy, as fine as a duchess, and scented like our shop. "Come, my dear," says she, "it's
'Normy' to--night" (or "Annybalony," or the "Nosey di Figaro," or the "Gazzylarder," as the
case may be). "Mr. Foster strikes off punctually at eight, and you know it's the fashion to
be always present at the very first bar of the aperture." And so off we are obliged to budge,
to be miserable for five hours, and to have a headache for the next twelve, and all because
it's the fashion!

After the aperture, as they call it, comes the opera, which, as I am given to understand, is
the Italian for singing. Why they should sing in Italian, I can't conceive; or why they should
do nothing BUT sing. Bless us! how I used to long for the wooden magpie in the "Gazzylarder"
to fly up to the top of the church-steeple, with the silver spoons, and see the chaps with
the pitchforks come in and carry off that wicked Don June. Not that I don't admire Lablash,
and Rubini, and his brother, Tomrubini: him who has that fine bass voice, I mean, and acts
the Corporal in the first piece, and Don June in the second; but three hours is a LITTLE too
much, for you can't sleep on those little rickety seats in the boxes.

The opera is bad enough; but what is that to the bally? You SHOULD have seen my Jemmy the first
night when she stopped to see it; and when Madamsalls Fanny and Theresa Hustler came forward,
along with a gentleman, to dance, you should have seen how Jemmy stared, and our girl blushed,
when Madamsall Fanny, coming forward, stood on the tips of only five of her toes, and raising
up the other five, and the foot belonging to them, almost to her shoulder, twirled round, and
round, and round, like a teetotum, for a couple of minutes or more; and as she settled down,
at last, on both feet, in a natural decent posture, you should have heard how the house roared
with applause, the boxes clapping with all their might, and waving their handkerchiefs; the
pit shouting, "Bravo!" Some people, who, I suppose, were rather angry at such an exhibition,
threw bunches of flowers at her; and what do you think she did? Why, hang me, if she did not
come forward, as though nothing had happened, gather up the things they had thrown at her,
smile, press them to her heart, and begin whirling round again faster than ever. Talk about
coolness, I never saw such in all MY born days.

"Nasty thing!" says Jemmy, starting up in a fury; "if women WILL act so, it serves them right
to be treated so."

"Oh, yes! she acts beautifully," says our friend his Excellency, who along with Baron von Punter
and Tagrag, used very seldom to miss coming to our box.

"She may act very beautifully, Munseer, but she don't dress so; and I am very glad they threw
that orange-peel and all those things at her, and that the people waved to her to get off."

Here his Excellency, and the Baron and Tag, set up a roar of laughter.

"My dear Mrs. Coxe," says Tag, "those are the most famous dancers in the world; and we throw
myrtle, geraniums, and lilies and roses at them, in token of our immense admiration!"

"Well, I never!" said my wife; and poor Jemimarann slunk behind the curtain, and looked as
red as it almost. After the one had done the next begun; but when, all of a sudden, a somebody
came skipping and bounding in, like an Indian-rubber ball, flinging itself up, at least six
feet from the stage, and there shaking about its legs like mad, we were more astonished than ever!

"That's Anatole," says one of the gentlemen.

"Anna who?" says my wife; and she might well be mistaken: for this person had a hat and feathers,
a bare neck and arms, great black ringlets, and a little calico frock, which came down to the
knees.

"Anatole. You would not think he was sixty-three years old, he's as active as a man of twenty."

"HE!" shrieked out my wife; "what, is that there a man? For shame! Munseer. Jemimarann, dear,
get your cloak, and come along; and I'll thank you, my dear, to call our people, and let us
go home."

You wouldn't think, after this, that my Jemmy, who had shown such a horror at the bally, as
they call it, should ever grow accustomed to it; but she liked to hear her name shouted out
in the crush-room, and so would stop till the end of everything; and, law bless you! in three
weeks from that time, she could look at the ballet as she would at a dancing-dog in the streets,
and would bring her double-barrelled opera-glass up to her eyes as coolly as if she had been
a born duchess. As for me, I did at Rome as Rome does; and precious fun it used to be, sometimes.

My friend the Baron insisted one night on my going behind the scenes; where, being a subscriber,
he said I had what they call my ONTRAY. Behind, then, I went; and such a place you never saw
nor heard of! Fancy lots of young and old gents of the fashion crowding round and staring at
the actresses practising their steps. Fancy yellow snuffy foreigners, chattering always, and
smelling fearfully of tobacco. Fancy scores of Jews, with hooked-noses and black muzzles, covered
with rings, chains, sham diamonds, and gold waistcoats. Fancy old men dressed in old nightgowns,
with knock-knees, and dirty flesh-colored cotton stockings, and dabs of brick-dust on their
wrinkled old chops, and tow-wigs (such wigs!) for the bald ones, and great tin spears in their
hands mayhap, or else shepherds' crooks, and fusty garlands of flowers made of red and green
baize. Fancy troops of girls giggling, chattering, pushing to and fro, amidst old black canvas,
Gothic halls, thrones, pasteboard Cupids, dragons, and such like. Such dirt, darkness, crowd,
confusion and gabble of all conceivable languages was never known!

If you COULD but have seen Munseer Anatole! Instead of looking twenty, he looked a thousand.
The old man's wig was off, and a barber was giving it a touch with the tongs; Munseer was taking
snuff himself, and a boy was standing by with a pint of beer from the public-house at the corner
of Charles Street.

I met with a little accident during the three-quarters of an hour which they allow for the
entertainment of us men of fashion on the stage, before the curtain draws up for the bally,
while the ladies in the boxes are gaping, and the people in the pit are drumming with their
feet and canes in the rudest manner possible, as though they couldn't wait.

Just at the moment before the little bell rings and the curtain flies up, and we scuffle off
to the sides (for we always stay till the very last moment), I was in the middle of the stage,
making myself very affable to the fair figgerantys which was spinning and twirling about me,
and asking them if they wasn't cold, and such like politeness, in the most condescending way
possible, when a bolt was suddenly withdrawn, and down I popped, through a trap in the stage,
into the place below. Luckily I was stopped by a piece of machinery, consisting of a heap of
green blankets and a young lady coming up as Venus rising from the sea. If I had not fallen
so soft, I don't know what might have been the consequence of the collusion. I never told Mrs.
Coxe, for she can't bear to hear of my paying the least attention to the fair sex.

STRIKING A BALANCE.

Next door to us, in Portland Place, lived the Right Honorable the Earl of Kilblazes, of Kilmacrasy
Castle, County Kildare, and his mother the Dowager Countess. Lady Kilblazes had a daughter,
Lady Juliana Matilda MacTurk, of the exact age of our dear Jemimarann; and a son, the Honorable
Arthur Wellington Anglesea Blucher Bulow MacTurk, only ten months older than our boy Tug.

My darling Jemmy is a woman of spirit, and, as become her station, made every possible attempt
to become acquainted with the Dowager Countess of Kilblazes, which her ladyship (because, forsooth,
she was the daughter of the Minister, and Prince of Wales's great friend, the Earl of Portansherry)
thought fit to reject. I don't wonder at my Jemmy growing so angry with her, and determining,
in every way, to put her ladyship down. The Kilblazes' estate is not so large as the Tuggeridge
property by two thousand a year at least; and so my wife, when our neighbors kept only two
footmen, was quite authorized in having three; and she made it a point, as soon as ever the
Kilblazes' carriage-and-pair came round, to have out her own carriage-and-four.

Well, our box was next to theirs at the Opera; only twice as big. Whatever masters went to
Lady Juliana, came to my Jemimarann; and what do you think Jemmy did? she got her celebrated
governess, Madame de Flicflac, away from the Countess, by offering a double salary. It was
quite a treasure, they said, to have Madame Flicflac: she had been (to support her father,
the Count, when he emigrated) a FRENCH dancer at the ITALIAN Opera. French dancing, and Italian,
therefore, we had at once, and in the best style: it is astonishing how quick and well she
used to speak--the French especially.

Master Arthur MacTurk was at the famous school of the Reverend Clement Coddler, along with
a hundred and ten other young fashionables, from the age of three to fifteen; and to this establishment
Jemmy sent our Tug, adding forty guineas to the hundred and twenty paid every year for the
boarders. I think I found out the dear soul's reason; for, one day, speaking about the school
to a mutual acquaintance of ours and the Kilblazes, she whispered to him that "she never would
have thought of sending her darling boy at the rate which her next-door neighbors paid; THEIR
lad, she was sure, must be starved: however, poor people, they did the best they could on their
income!"

Coddler's, in fact, was the tip-top school near London: he had been tutor to the Duke of Buckminster,
who had set him up in the school, and, as I tell you, all the peerage and respectable commoners
came to it. You read in the bill, (the snopsis, I think, Coddler called it,) after the account
of the charges for board, masters, extras, &c.--"Every young nobleman (or gentleman) is expected
to bring a knife, fork, spoon, and goblet of silver (to prevent breakage), which will not be
returned; a dressing-gown and slippers; toilet-box, pomatum, curling-irons, &c. &c. The pupil
must on NO ACCOUNT be allowed to have more than ten guineas of pocket-money, unless his parents
particularly desire it, or he be above fifteen years of age. WINE will be an extra charge;
as are warm, vapor, and douche baths. CARRIAGE EXERCISE will be provided at the rate of fifteen
guineas per quarter. It is EARNESTLY REQUESTED that no young nobleman (or gentleman) be allowed
to smoke. In a place devoted to THE CULTIVATION OF POLITE LITERATURE, such an ignoble enjoyment
were profane.

"CLEMENT CODDLER, M. A.,

"Chaplain and late tutor to his Grace the Duke of Buckminster.

"MOUNT PARNASSUS, RICHMOND, SURREY."

To this establishment our Tug was sent. "Recollect, my dear," said his mamma, "that you are
a Tuggeridge by birth, and that I expect you to beat all the boys in the school; especially
that Wellington MacTurk, who, though he is a lord's son, is nothing to you, who are the heir
of Tuggeridgeville."

Tug was a smart young fellow enough, and could cut and curl as well as any young chap of his
age: he was not a bad hand at a wig either, and could shave, too, very prettily; but that was
in the old time, when we were not great people: when he came to be a gentleman, he had to learn
Latin and Greek, and had a deal of lost time to make up for, on going to school.

However, we had no fear; for the Reverend Mr. Coddler used to send monthly accounts of his
pupil's progress, and if Tug was not a wonder of the world, I don't know who was. It was

     General behavior......excellent.
     English...............very good.
     French................tres bien.
     Latin.................optime.

And so on:--he possessed all the virtues, and wrote to us every month for money. My dear Jemmy
and I determined to go and see him, after he had been at school a quarter; we went, and were
shown by Mr. Coddler, one of the meekest, smilingest little men I ever saw, into the bedrooms
and eating-rooms (the dromitaries and refractories he called them), which were all as comfortable
as comfortable might be. "It is a holiday, today," said Mr. Coddler; and a holiday it seemed
to be. In the dining-room were half a dozen young gentlemen playing at cards ("All tip-top
nobility," observed Mr. Coddler);--in the bedrooms there was only one gent: he was lying on
his bed, reading novels and smoking cigars. "Extraordinary genius!" whispered Coddler. "Honorable
Tom Fitz-Warter, cousin of Lord Byron's; smokes all day; and has written the SWEETEST poems
you can imagine. Genius, my dear madam, you know--genius must have its way." "Well, UPON my
word," says Jemmy, "if that's genius, I had rather that Master Tuggeridge Coxe Tuggeridge remained
a dull fellow."

"Impossible, my dear madam," said Coddler. "Mr. Tuggeridge Coxe COULDN'T be stupid if he TRIED."

Just then up comes Lord Claude Lollypop, third son of the Marquis of Allycompane. We were introduced
instantly: "Lord Claude Lollypop, Mr. and Mrs. Coxe." The little lord wagged his head, my wife
bowed very low, and so did Mr. Coddler; who, as he saw my lord making for the playground, begged
him to show us the way.--"Come along," says my lord; and as he walked before us, whistling,
we had leisure to remark the beautiful holes in his jacket, and elsewhere.

About twenty young noblemen (and gentlemen) were gathered round a pastry-cook's shop at the
end of the green. "That's the grub-shop," said my lord, "where we young gentlemen wot has money
buys our wittles, and them young gentlemen wot has none, goes tick."

Then we passed a poor red-haired usher sitting on a bench alone. "That's Mr. Hicks, the Husher,
ma'am," says my lord. "We keep him, for he's very useful to throw stones at, and he keeps the
chaps' coats when there's a fight, or a game at cricket.--Well, Hicks, how's your mother? what's
the row now?" "I believe, my lord," said the usher, very meekly, "there is a pugilistic encounter
somewhere on the premises--the Honorable Mr. Mac--"

"Oh! COME along," said Lord Lollypop, "come along: this way, ma'am! Go it, ye cripples!" And
my lord pulled my dear Jemmy's gown in the kindest and most familiar way, she trotting on after
him, mightily pleased to be so taken notice of, and I after her. A little boy went running
across the green. "Who is it, Petitoes?" screams my lord. "Turk and the barber," pipes Petitoes,
and runs to the pastry-cook's like mad. "Turk and the ba--," laughs out my lord, looking at
us. "HURRA! THIS way, ma'am!" And turning round a corner, he opened a door into a court-yard,
where a number of boys were collected, and a great noise of shrill voices might be heard. "Go
it, Turk!" says one. "Go it, barber!" says another. "PUNCH HITH LIFE OUT!" roars another, whose
voice was just cracked, and his clothes half a yard too short for him!

Fancy our horror when, on the crowd making way, we saw Tug pummelling away at the Honorable
Master MacTurk! My dear Jemmy, who don't understand such things, pounced upon the two at once,
and, with one hand tearing away Tug, sent him spinning back into the arms of his seconds, while,
with the other, she clawed hold of Master MacTurk's red hair, and, as soon as she got her second
hand free, banged it about his face and ears like a good one.

"You nasty--wicked--quarrelsome--aristocratic" (each word was a bang)--"aristocratic--oh! oh!
oh!"--Here the words stopped; for what with the agitation, maternal solicitude, and a dreadful
kick on the shins which, I am ashamed to say, Master MacTurk administered, my dear Jemmy could
bear it no longer, and sunk fainting away in my arms.

DOWN AT BEULAH.

Although there was a regular cut between the next-door people and us, yet Tug and the Honorable
Master MacTurk kept up their acquaintance over the back-garden wall, and in the stables, where
they were fighting, making friends, and playing tricks from morning to night, during the holidays.
Indeed, it was from young Mac that we first heard of Madame de Flicflac, of whom my Jemmy robbed
Lady Kilblazes, as I before have related. When our friend the Baron first saw Madame, a very
tender greeting passed between them; for they had, as it appeared, been old friends abroad.
"Sapristie," said the Baron, in his lingo, "que fais-tu ici, Amenaide?" "Et toi, mon pauvre
Chicot," says she, "est-ce qu'on t'a mis a la retraite? Il parait que tu n'es plus General
chez Franco--" "CHUT!" says the Baron, putting his finger to his lips.

"What are they saying, my dear?" says my wife to Jemimarann, who had a pretty knowledge of
the language by this time.

"I don't know what 'Sapristie' means, mamma; but the Baron asked Madame what she was doing
here? and Madame said, 'And you, Chicot, you are no more a General at Franco.'--Have I not
translated rightly, Madame?"

"Oui, mon chou, mon ange. Yase, my angel, my cabbage, quite right. Figure yourself, I have
known my dear Chicot dis twenty years."

"Chicot is my name of baptism," says the Baron; "Baron Chicot de Punter is my name."

"And being a General at Franco," says Jemmy, "means, I suppose, being a French General?"

"Yes, I vas," said he, "General Baron de Punter--n'est 'a pas, Amenaide?"

"Oh, yes!" said Madame Flicflac, and laughed; and I and Jemmy laughed out of politeness: and
a pretty laughing matter it was, as you shall hear.

About this time my Jemmy became one of the Lady-Patronesses of that admirable institution,
"The Washerwoman's-Orphans' Home;" Lady de Sudley was the great projector of it; and the manager
and chaplain, the excellent and Reverend Sidney Slopper. His salary, as chaplain, and that
of Doctor Leitch, the physician (both cousins of her ladyship's), drew away five hundred pounds
from the six subscribed to the Charity: and Lady de Sudley thought a fete at Beulah Spa, with
the aid of some of the foreign princes who were in town last year, might bring a little more
money into its treasury. A tender appeal was accordingly drawn up, and published in all the
papers:--

"APPEAL.

"BRITISH WASHERWOMAN'S-ORPHANS' HOME.

"The 'Washerwoman's-Orphans' Home' has now been established seven years: and the good which
it has effected is, it may be confidently stated, INCALCULABLE. Ninety-eight orphan children
of Washerwomen have been lodged within its walls. One hundred and two British Washerwomen have
been relieved when in the last state of decay. ONE HUNDRED AND NINETY-EIGHT THOUSAND articles
of male and female dress have been washed, mended, buttoned, ironed, and mangled in the Establishment.
And, by an arrangement with the governors of the Foundling, it is hoped that THE BABY-LINEN
OF THAT HOSPITAL will be confided to the British Washerwoman's Home!

"With such prospects before it, is it not sad, is it not lamentable to think, that the Patronesses
of the Society have been compelled to reject the applications of no less than THREE THOUSAND
EIGHT HUNDRED AND ONE BRITISH WASHERWOMEN, from lack of means for their support? Ladies of
England! Mothers of England! to you we appeal. Is there one of you that will not respond to
the cry in behalf of these deserving members of our sex?

"It has been determined by the Ladies-Patronesses to give a fete at Beulah Spa, on Thursday,
July 25; which will be graced with the first foreign and native TALENT; by the first foreign
and native RANK; and where they beg for the attendance of every WASHERWOMAN'S FRIEND."

Her Highness the Princess of Schloppenzollernschwigmaringen, the Duke of Sacks-Tubbingen, His
Excellency Baron Strumpff, His Excellency Lootf-Allee-Koolee-Bismillah-Mohamed-Rusheed-Allah,
the Persian Ambassador, Prince Futtee-Jaw, Envoy from the King of Oude, His Excellency Don
Alonzo di Cachachero-y-Fandango-y-Castanete, the Spanish Ambassador, Count Ravioli, from Milan,
the Envoy of the Republic of Topinambo, and a host of other fashionables, promised to honor
the festival: and their names made a famous show in the bills. Besides these, we had the celebrated
band of Moscow-musiks, the seventy-seven Transylvanian trumpeters, and the famous Bohemian
Minnesingers; with all the leading artists of London, Paris, the Continent, and the rest of Europe.

I leave you to fancy what a splendid triumph for the British Washerwoman's Home was to come
off on that day. A beautiful tent was erected, in which the Ladies-Patronesses were to meet:
it was hung round with specimens of the skill of the washerwomen's orphans; ninety-six of whom
were to be feasted in the gardens, and waited on by the Ladies-Patronesses.

Well, Jemmy and my daughter, Madame de Flicflac, myself, the Count, Baron Punter, Tug, and
Tagrag, all went down in the chariot and barouche-and-four, quite eclipsing poor Lady Kilblazes
and her carriage-and-two.

There was a fine cold collation, to which the friends of the Ladies-Patronesses were admitted;
after which, my ladies and their beaux went strolling through the walks; Tagrag and the Count
having each an arm of Jemmy; the Baron giving an arm apiece to Madame and Jemimarann. Whilst
they were walking, whom should they light upon but poor Orlando Crump, my successor in the
perfumery and hair-cutting.

"Orlando!" says Jemimarann, blushing as red as a label, and holding out her hand.

"Jemimar!" says he, holding out his, and turning as white as pomatum.

"SIR!" says Jemmy, as stately as a duchess.

"What! madam," says poor Crump, "don't you remember your shopboy?"

"Dearest mamma, don't you recollect Orlando?" whimpers Jemimarann, whose hand he had got hold of.

"Miss Tuggeridge Coxe," says Jemmy, "I'm surprised of you. Remember, sir, that our position
is altered, and oblige me by no more familiarity."

"Insolent fellow!" says the Baron, "vat is dis canaille?"

"Canal yourself, Mounseer," says Orlando, now grown quite furious: he broke away, quite indignant,
and was soon lost in the crowd. Jemimarann, as soon as he was gone, began to look very pale
and ill; and her mamma, therefore, took her to a tent, where she left her along with Madame
Flicflac and the Baron; going off herself with the other gentlemen, in order to join us.

It appears they had not been seated very long, when Madame Flicflac suddenly sprung up, with
an exclamation of joy, and rushed forward to a friend whom she saw pass.

The Baron was left alone with Jemimarann; and, whether it was the champagne, or that my dear
girl looked more than commonly pretty, I don't know; but Madame Flicflac had not been gone
a minute, when the Baron dropped on his knees, and made her a regular declaration.

Poor Orlando Crump had found me out by this time, and was standing by my side, listening, as
melancholy as possible, to the famous Bohemian Minnesingers, who were singing the celebrated
words of the poet Gothy:--

             "Ich bin ya hupp lily lee, du bist ya hupp lily lee.
              Wir sind doch hupp lily lee, hupp la lily lee."
     "Chorus--Yodle-odle-odle-odle-odle-odle hupp! yodle-odle-aw-o-o-o!"

They were standing with their hands in their waistcoats, as usual, and had just come to the
"o-o-o," at the end of the chorus of the forty-seventh stanza, when Orlando started: "That's
a scream!" says he. "Indeed it is," says I; "and, but for the fashion of the thing, a very
ugly scream too:" when I heard another shrill "Oh!" as I thought; and Orlando bolted off, crying,
"By heavens, it's HER voice!" "Whose voice?" says I. "Come and see the row," says Tag. And
off we went, with a considerable number of people, who saw this strange move on his part.

We came to the tent, and there we found my poor Jemimarann fainting; her mamma holding a smelling-bottle;
the Baron, on the ground, holding a handkerchief to his bleeding nose; and Orlando squaring
at him, and calling on him to fight if he dared.

My Jemmy looked at Crump very fierce. "Take that feller away," says she; "he has insulted a
French nobleman, and deserves transportation, at the least."

Poor Orlando was carried off. "I've no patience with the little minx," says Jemmy, giving Jemimarann
a pinch. "She might be a Baron's lady; and she screams out because his Excellency did but squeeze
her hand."

"Oh, mamma! mamma!" sobs poor Jemimarann, "but he was t-t-tipsy."

"T-t-tipsy! and the more shame for you, you hussy, to be offended with a nobleman who does
not know what he is doing."

A TOURNAMENT.

"I say, Tug," said MacTurk, one day soon after our flareup at Beulah, "Kilblazes comes of age
in October, and then we'll cut you out, as I told you: the old barberess will die of spite
when she hears what we are going to do. What do you think? we're going to have a tournament!"
"What's a tournament?" says Tug, and so said his mamma when she heard the news; and when she
knew what a tournament was, I think, really, she WAS as angry as MacTurk said she would be,
and gave us no peace for days together. "What!" says she, "dress up in armor, like play-actors,
and run at each other with spears? The Kilblazes must be mad!" And so I thought, but I didn't
think the Tuggeridges would be mad too, as they were: for, when Jemmy heard that the Kilblazes'
festival was to be, as yet, a profound secret, what does she do, but send down to the Morning
Post a flaming account of

"THE PASSAGE OF ARMS AT TUGGERIDGEVIILLE!

"The days of chivalry are NOT past. The fair Castellane of T-gg-r-dgeville, whose splendid
entertainments have so often been alluded to in this paper, has determined to give one, which
shall exceed in splendor even the magnificence of the Middle Ages. We are not at liberty to
say more; but a tournament, at which His Ex-l-ncy B-r-n de P-nt-r and Thomas T-gr-g, Esq.,
eldest son of Sir Th--s T-gr-g, are to be the knights-defendants against all comers; a QUEEN
OF BEAUTY, of whose loveliness every frequenter of fashion has felt the power; a banquet, unexampled
in the annals of Gunter; and a ball, in which the recollections of ancient chivalry will blend
sweetly with the soft tones of Weippert and Collinet, are among the entertainments which the
Ladye of T-gg-ridgeville has prepared for her distinguished guests."

The Baron was the life of the scheme; he longed to be on horseback, and in the field at Tuggeridgeville,
where he, Tagrag, and a number of our friends practised: he was the very best tilter present;
he vaulted over his horse, and played such wonderful antics, as never were done except at Ducrow's.

And now--oh that I had twenty pages, instead of this short chapter, to describe the wonders
of the day!--Twenty-four knights came from Ashley's at two guineas a head. We were in hopes
to have had Miss Woolford in the character of Joan of Arc, but that lady did not appear. We
had a tent for the challengers, at each side of which hung what they called ESCOACHINGS, (like
hatchments, which they put up when people die,) and underneath sat their pages, holding their
helmets for the tournament. Tagrag was in brass armor (my City connections got him that famous
suit); his Excellency in polished steel. My wife wore a coronet, modelled exactly after that
of Queen Catharine, in "Henry V.;" a tight gilt jacket, which set off dear Jemmy's figure wonderfully,
and a train of at least forty feet. Dear Jemimarann was in white, her hair braided with pearls.
Madame de Flicflac appeared as Queen Elizabeth; and Lady Blanche Bluenose as a Turkish princess.
An alderman of London and his lady; two magistrates of the county, and the very pink of Croydon;
several Polish noblemen; two Italian counts (besides our Count); one hundred and ten young
officers, from Addiscombe College, in full uniform, commanded by Major-General Sir Miles Mulligatawney,
K.C.B., and his lady; the Misses Pimminy's Finishing Establishment, and fourteen young ladies,
all in white: the Reverend Doctor Wapshot, and forty-nine young gentlemen, of the first families,
under his charge--were SOME only of the company. I leave you to fancy that, if my Jemmy did
seek for fashion, she had enough of it on this occasion. They wanted me to have mounted again,
but my hunting-day had been sufficient; besides, I ain't big enough for a real knight: so,
as Mrs. Coxe insisted on my opening the Tournament--and I knew it was in vain to resist--the
Baron and Tagrag had undertaken to arrange so that I might come off with safety, if I came
off at all. They had procured from the Strand Theatre a famous stud of hobby-horses, which
they told me had been trained for the use of the great Lord Bateman. I did not know exactly
what they were till they arrived; but as they had belonged to a lord, I thought it was all
right, and consented; and I found it the best sort of riding, after all, to appear to be on
horseback and walk safely a-foot at the same time; and it was impossible to come down as long
as I kept on my own legs: besides, I could cuff and pull my steed about as much as I liked,
without fear of his biting or kicking in return. As Lord of the Tournament, they placed in
my hands a lance, ornamented spirally, in blue and gold: I thought of the pole over my old
shop door, and almost wished myself there again, as I capered up to the battle in my helmet
and breastplate, with all the trumpets blowing and drums beating at the time. Captain Tagrag
was my opponent, and preciously we poked each other, till, prancing about, I put my foot on
my horse's petticoat behind, and down I came, getting a thrust from the Captain, at the same
time, that almost broke my shoulder-bone. "This was sufficient," they said, "for the laws of
chivalry;" and I was glad to get off so.

After that the gentlemen riders, of whom there were no less than seven, in complete armor,
and the professionals, now ran at the ring; and the Baron was far, far the most skilful.

"How sweetly the dear Baron rides," said my wife, who was always ogling at him, smirking, smiling,
and waving her handkerchief to him. "I say, Sam," says a professional to one of his friends,
as, after their course, they came cantering up, and ranged under Jemmy's bower, as she called
it:--"I say, Sam, I'm blowed if that chap in harmer mustn't have been one of hus." And this
only made Jemmy the more pleased; for the fact is, the Baron had chosen the best way of winning
Jemimarann by courting her mother.

The Baron was declared conqueror at the ring; and Jemmy awarded him the prize, a wreath of
white roses, which she placed on his lance; he receiving it gracefully, and bowing, until the
plumes of his helmet mingled with the mane of his charger, which backed to the other end of
the lists; then galloping back to the place where Jemimarann was seated, he begged her to place
it on his helmet. The poor girl blushed very much, and did so. As all the people were applauding,
Tagrag rushed up, and, laying his hand on the Baron's shoulder, whispered something in his
ear, which made the other very angry, I suppose, for he shook him off violently. "Chacun pour
soi," says he, "Monsieur de Taguerague,"--which means, I am told, "Every man for himself."
And then he rode away, throwing his lance in the air, catching it, and making his horse caper
and prance, to the admiration of all beholders.

After this came the "Passage of Arms." Tagrag and the Baron ran courses against the other champions;
ay, and unhorsed two apiece; whereupon the other three refused to turn out; and preciously
we laughed at them, to be sure!

"Now, it's OUR turn, Mr. CHICOT," says Tagrag, shaking his fist at the Baron: "look to yourself,
you infernal mountebank, for, by Jupiter, I'll do my best!" And before Jemmy and the rest of
us, who were quite bewildered, could say a word, these two friends were charging away, spears
in hand, ready to kill each other. In vain Jemmy screamed; in vain I threw down my truncheon:
they had broken two poles before I could say "Jack Robinson," and were driving at each other
with the two new ones. The Baron had the worst of the first course, for he had almost been
carried out of his saddle. "Hark you, Chicot!" screamed out Tagrag, "next time look to your
head!" And next time, sure enough, each aimed at the head of the other.

Tagrag's spear hit the right place; for it carried off the Baron's helmet, plume, rose-wreath
and all; but his Excellency hit truer still--his lance took Tagrag on the neck, and sent him
to the ground like a stone.

"He's won! he's won!" says Jemmy, waving her handkerchief; Jemimarann fainted, Lady Blanche
screamed, and I felt so sick that I thought I should drop. All the company were in an uproar:
only the Baron looked calm, and bowed very gracefully, and kissed his hand to Jemmy; when,
all of a sudden, a Jewish-looking man springing over the barrier, and followed by three more,
rushed towards the Baron. "Keep the gate, Bob!" he holloas out. "Baron, I arrest you, at the
suit of Samuel Levison, for--"

But he never said for what; shouting out, "Aha!" and "Sapprrrristie!" and I don't know what,
his Excellency drew his sword, dug his spurs into his horse, and was over the poor bailiff,
and off before another word. He had threatened to run through one of the bailiff's followers,
Mr. Stubbs, only that gentleman made way for him; and when we took up the bailiff, and brought
him round by the aid of a little brandy-and-water, he told us all. "I had a writ againsht him,
Mishter Coxsh, but I didn't vant to shpoil shport; and, beshidesh, I didn't know him until
dey knocked off his shteel cap!"

*****

Here was a pretty business!

OVER-BOARDED AND UNDER-LODGED.

We had no great reason to brag of our tournament at Tuggeridgeville: but, after all, it was
better than the turn-out at Kilblazes, where poor Lord Heydownderry went about in a black velvet
dressing-gown, and the Emperor Napoleon Bonypart appeared in a suit of armor and silk stockings,
like Mr. Pell's friend in Pickwick; we, having employed the gentlemen from Astley's Antitheatre,
had some decent sport for our money.

We never heard a word from the Baron, who had so distinguished himself by his horsemanship,
and had knocked down (and very justly) Mr. Nabb, the bailiff, and Mr. Stubbs, his man, who
came to lay hands upon him. My sweet Jemmy seemed to be very low in spirits after his departure,
and a sad thing it is to see her in low spirits: on days of illness she no more minds giving
Jemimarann a box on the ear, or sending a plate of muffins across a table at poor me, than
she does taking her tea.

Jemmy, I say, was very low in spirits; but, one day (I remember it was the day after Captain
Higgins called, and said he had seen the Baron at Boulogne), she vowed that nothing but change
of air would do her good, and declared that she should die unless she went to the seaside in
France. I knew what this meant, and that I might as well attempt to resist her as to resist
her Gracious Majesty in Parliament assembled; so I told the people to pack up the things, and
took four places on board the "Grand Turk" steamer for Boulogne.

The travelling-carriage, which, with Jemmy's thirty-seven boxes and my carpet-bag, was pretty
well loaded, was sent on board the night before; and we, after breakfasting in Portland Place
(little did I think it was the--but, poh! never mind), went down to the Custom House in the
other carriage, followed by a hackney-coach and a cab, with the servants, and fourteen bandboxes
and trunks more, which were to be wanted by my dear girl in the journey.

The road down Cheapside and Thames Street need not be described: we saw the Monument, a memento
of the wicked Popish massacre of St. Bartholomew;--why erected here I can't think, as St. Bartholomew
is in Smithfield;--we had a glimpse of Billingsgate, and of the Mansion House, where we saw
the two-and-twenty-shilling-coal smoke coming out of the chimneys, and were landed at the Custom
House in safety. I felt melancholy, for we were going among a people of swindlers, as all Frenchmen
are thought to be; and, besides not being able to speak the language, leaving our own dear
country and honest countrymen.

Fourteen porters came out, and each took a package with the greatest civility; calling Jemmy
her ladyship, and me your honor; ay, and your honoring and my ladyshipping even my man and
the maid in the cab. I somehow felt all over quite melancholy at going away. "Here, my fine
fellow," says I to the coachman, who was standing very respectful, holding his hat in one hand
and Jemmy's jewel-case in the other--"Here, my fine chap," says I, "here's six shillings for
you;" for I did not care for the money.

"Six what?" says he.

"Six shillings, fellow," shrieks Jemmy, "and twice as much as your fare."

"Feller, marm!" says this insolent coachman. "Feller yourself, marm: do you think I'm a-going
to kill my horses, and break my precious back, and bust my carriage, and carry you, and your
kids, and your traps for six hog?" And with this the monster dropped his hat, with my money
in it, and doubling his fist put it so very near my nose that I really thought he would have
made it bleed. "My fare's heighteen shillings," says he, "hain't it?--hask hany of these gentlemen."

"Why, it ain't more than seventeen-and-six," says one of the fourteen porters; "but if the
gen'l'man IS a gen'l'man, he can't give no less than a suffering anyhow."

I wanted to resist, and Jemmy screamed like a Turk; but, "Holloa!" says one. "What's the row?"
says another. "Come, dub up!" roars a third. And I don't mind telling you, in confidence, that
I was so frightened that I took out the sovereign and gave it. My man and Jemmy's maid had
disappeared by this time: they always do when there's a robbery or a row going on.

I was going after them. "Stop, Mr. Ferguson," pipes a young gentleman of about thirteen, with
a red livery waistcoat that reached to his ankles, and every variety of button, pin, string,
to keep it together. "Stop, Mr. Heff," says he, taking a small pipe out of his mouth, "and
don't forgit the cabman."

"What's your fare, my lad?" says I.

"Why, let's see--yes--ho!--my fare's seven-and-thirty and eightpence eggs--acly."

The fourteen gentlemen holding the luggage, here burst out and laughed very rudely indeed;
and the only person who seemed disappointed was, I thought, the hackney-coachman. "Why, YOU
rascal!" says Jemmy, laying hold of the boy, "do you want more than the coachman?"

"Don't rascal ME, marm!" shrieks the little chap in return. "What's the coach to me? Vy, you
may go in an omlibus for sixpence if you like; vy don't you go and buss it, marm? Vy did you
call my cab, marm? Vy am I to come forty mile, from Scarlot Street, Po'tl'nd Street, Po'tl'nd
Place, and not git my fare, marm? Come, give me a suffering and a half, and don't keep my hoss
avaiting all day." This speech, which takes some time to write down, was made in about the
fifth part of a second; and, at the end of it, the young gentleman hurled down his pipe, and,
advancing towards Jemmy, doubled his fist, and seemed to challenge her to fight.

My dearest girl now turned from red to be as pale as white Windsor, and fell into my arms.
What was I to do? I called "Policeman!" but a policeman won't interfere in Thames Street; robbery
is licensed there. What was I to do? Oh! my heart beats with paternal gratitude when I think
of what my Tug did!

As soon as this young cab-chap put himself into a fighting attitude, Master Tuggeridge Coxe--who
had been standing by laughing very rudely, I thought--Master Tuggeridge Coxe, I say, flung
his jacket suddenly into his mamma's face (the brass buttons made her start and recovered her
a little), and, before we could say a word was in the ring in which we stood (formed by the
porters, nine orangemen and women, I don't know how many newspaper-boys, hotel-cads, and old-clothesmen),
and, whirling about two little white fists in the face of the gentleman in the red waistcoat,
who brought up a great pair of black ones to bear on the enemy, was engaged in an instant.

But la bless you! Tug hadn't been at Richmond School for nothing; and MILLED away one, two,
right and left--like a little hero as he is, with all his dear mother's spirit in him. First
came a crack which sent a long dusky white hat--that looked damp and deep like a well, and
had a long black crape-rag twisted round it--first came a crack which sent this white hat spinning
over the gentleman's cab and scattered among the crowd a vast number of things which the cabman
kept in it,--such as a ball of string, a piece of candle, a comb, a whip-lash, a little warbler,
a slice of bacon, &c. &c.

The cabman seemed sadly ashamed of this display, but Tug gave him no time: another blow was
planted on his cheekbone; and a third, which hit him straight on the nose, sent this rude cabman
straight down to the ground.

"Brayvo, my lord!" shouted all the people around.

"I won't have no more, thank yer," said the little cabman, gathering himself up. "Give us over
my fare, vil yer, and let me git away?"

"What's your fare, NOW, you cowardly little thief?" says Tug.

"Vy, then, two-and-eightpence," says he. "Go along,--you KNOW it is!" and two-and-eightpence
he had; and everybody applauded Tug, and hissed the cab-boy, and asked Tug for something to
drink. We heard the packet-bell ringing, and all run down the stairs to be in time.

I now thought our troubles would soon be over; mine were, very nearly so, in one sense at least:
for after Mrs. Coxe and Jemimarann, and Tug, and the maid, and valet, and valuables had been
handed across, it came to my turn. I had often heard of people being taken up by a PLANK, but
seldom of their being set down by one. Just as I was going over, the vessel rode off a little,
the board slipped, and down I soused into the water. You might have heard Mrs. Coxe's shriek
as far as Gravesend; it rung in my ears as I went down, all grieved at the thought of leaving
her a disconsolate widder. Well, up I came again, and caught the brim of my beaver-hat--though
I have heard that drowning men catch at straws:--I floated, and hoped to escape by hook or
by crook; and, luckily, just then, I felt myself suddenly jerked by the waistband of my whites,
and found myself hauled up in the air at the end of a boat-hook, to the sound of "Yeho! yeho!
yehoi! yehoi!" and so I was dragged aboard. I was put to bed, and had swallowed so much water
that it took a very considerable quantity of brandy to bring it to a proper mixture in my inside.
In fact, for some hours I was in a very deplorable state.

NOTICE TO QUIT.

Well, we arrived at Boulogne; and Jemmy, after making inquiries, right and left, about the
Baron, found that no such person was known there; and being bent, I suppose, at all events,
on marrying her daughter to a lord, she determined to set off for Paris, where, as he had often
said, he possessed a magnificent ---- hotel he called it;--and I remember Jemmy being mightily
indignant at the idea; but hotel, we found afterwards, means only a house in French, and this
reconciled her. Need I describe the road from Boulogne to Paris? or need I describe that Capitol
itself? Suffice it to say, that we made our appearance there, at "Murisse's Hotel," as became
the family of Coxe Tuggeridge; and saw everything worth seeing in the metropolis in a week.
It nearly killed me, to be sure; but, when you're on a pleasure-party in a foreign country,
you must not mind a little inconvenience of this sort.

Well, there is, near the city of Paris, a splendid road and row of trees, which--I don't know
why--is called the Shandeleezy, or Elysian Fields, in French: others, I have heard, call it
the Shandeleery; but mine I know to be the correct pronunciation. In the middle of this Shandeleezy
is an open space of ground, and a tent where, during the summer, Mr. Franconi, the French Ashley,
performs with his horses and things. As everybody went there, and we were told it was quite
the thing, Jemmy agreed that we should go too; and go we did.

It's just like Ashley's: there's a man just like Mr. Piddicombe, who goes round the ring in
a huzzah-dress, cracking a whip; there are a dozen Miss Woolfords, who appear like Polish princesses,
Dihannas, Sultannas, Cachuchas, and heaven knows what! There's the fat man, who comes in with
the twenty-three dresses on, and turns out to be the living skeleton! There's the clowns, the
sawdust, the white horse that dances a hornpipe, the candles stuck in hoops, just as in our
own dear country.

My dear wife, in her very finest clothes, with all the world looking at her, was really enjoying
this spectacle (which doesn't require any knowledge of the language, seeing that the dumb animals
don't talk it), when there came in, presently, "the great Polish act of the Sarmatian horse-tamer,
on eight steeds," which we were all of us longing to see. The horse-tamer, to music twenty
miles an hour, rushed in on four of his horses, leading the other four, and skurried round
the ring. You couldn't see him for the sawdust, but everybody was delighted, and applauded
like mad. Presently, you saw there were only three horses in front: he had slipped one more
between his legs, another followed, and it was clear that the consequences would be fatal,
if he admitted any more. The people applauded more than ever; and when, at last, seven and
eight were made to go in, not wholly, but sliding dexterously in and out, with the others,
so that you did not know which was which, the house, I thought, would come down with applause;
and the Sarmatian horse-tamer bowed his great feathers to the ground. At last the music grew
slower, and he cantered leisurely round the ring; bending, smirking, seesawing, waving his
whip, and laying his hand on his heart, just as we have seen the Ashley's people do. But fancy
our astonishment when, suddenly, this Sarmatian horse-tamer, coming round with his four pair
at a canter, and being opposite our box, gave a start, and a--hupp! which made all his horses
stop stock-still at an instant.

"Albert!" screamed my dear Jemmy: "Albert! Bahbahbah--baron!" The Sarmatian looked at her for
a minute; and turning head over heels, three times, bolted suddenly off his horses, and away
out of our sight.

It was HIS EXCELLENCY THE BARON DE PUNTER!

Jemmy went off in a fit as usual, and we never saw the Baron again; but we heard, afterwards,
that Punter was an apprentice of Franconi's, and had run away to England, thinking to better
himself, and had joined Mr. Richardson's army; but Mr. Richardson, and then London, did not
agree with him; and we saw the last of him as he sprung over the barriers at the Tuggeridgeville
tournament.

"Well, Jemimarann," says Jemmy, in a fury, "you shall marry Tagrag; and if I can't have a baroness
for a daughter, at least you shall be a baronet's lady." Poor Jemimarann only sighed: she knew
it was of no use to remonstrate.

Paris grew dull to us after this, and we were more eager than ever to go back to London: for
what should we hear, but that that monster, Tuggeridge, of the City--old Tug's black son, forsooth!--was
going to contest Jemmy's claim to the property, and had filed I don't know how many bills against
us in Chancery! Hearing this, we set off immediately, and we arrived at Boulogne, and set off
in that very same "Grand Turk" which had brought us to France.

If you look in the bills, you will see that the steamers leave London on Saturday morning,
and Boulogne on Saturday night; so that there is often not an hour between the time of arrival
and departure. Bless us! bless us! I pity the poor Captain that, for twenty-four hours at a
time, is on a paddle-box, roaring out, "Ease her! Stop her!" and the poor servants, who are
laying out breakfast, lunch, dinner, tea, supper;--breakfast, lunch, dinner, tea, supper again;--for
layers upon layers of travellers, as it were; and most of all, I pity that unhappy steward,
with those unfortunate tin-basins that he must always keep an eye over. Little did we know
what a storm was brooding in our absence; and little were we prepared for the awful, awful
fate that hung over our Tuggeridgeville property.

Biggs, of the great house of Higgs, Biggs, and Blatherwick, was our man of business: when I
arrived in London I heard that he had just set off to Paris after me. So we started down to
Tuggeridgeville instead of going to Portland Place. As we came through the lodge-gates, we
found a crowd assembled within them; and there was that horrid Tuggeridige on horseback, with
a shabby-looking man, called Mr. Scapgoat, and his man of business, and many more. "Mr. Scapgoat,"
says Tuggeridge, grinning, and handing him over a sealed paper, "here's the lease; I leave
you in possession, and wish you good morning."

"In possession of what?" says the rightful lady of Tuggeridgeville, leaning out of the carriage-window.
She hated black Tuggeridge, as she called him, like poison: the very first week of our coming
to Portland Place, when he called to ask restitution of some plate which he said was his private
property, she called him a base-born blackamoor, and told him to quit the house. Since then
there had been law squabbles between us without end, and all sorts of writings, meetings, and
arbitrations.

"Possession of my estate of Tuggeridgeville, madam," roars he, "left me by my father's will,
which you have had notice of these three weeks, and know as well as I do."

"Old Tug left no will," shrieked Jemmy; "he didn't die to leave his estates to blackamoors--to
negroes--to base-born mulatto story-tellers; if he did may I be -----"

"Oh, hush! dearest mamma," says Jemimarann. "Go it again, mother!" says Tug, who is always
sniggering.

"What is this business, Mr. Tuggeridge?" cried Tagrag (who was the only one of our party that
had his senses). "What is this will?"

"Oh, it's merely a matter of form," said the lawyer, riding up. "For heaven's sake, madam,
be peaceable; let my friends, Higgs, Biggs, and Blatherwick, arrange with me. I am surprised
that none of their people are here. All that you have to do is to eject us; and the rest will
follow, of course."

"Who has taken possession of this here property?" roars Jemmy, again.

"My friend Mr. Scapgoat," said the lawyer.--Mr. Scapgoat grinned.

"Mr. Scapgoat," said my wife, shaking her fist at him (for she is a woman of no small spirit),
"if you don't leave this ground I'll have you pushed out with pitchforks, I will--you and your
beggarly blackamoor yonder." And, suiting the action to the word, she clapped a stable fork
into the hands of one of the gardeners, and called another, armed with a rake, to his help,
while young Tug set the dog at their heels, and I hurrahed for joy to see such villany so properly
treated.

"That's sufficient, ain't it?" said Mr. Scapgoat, with the calmest air in the world. "Oh, completely,"
said the lawyer. "Mr. Tuggeridge, we've ten miles to dinner. Madam, your very humble servant."
And the whole posse of them rode away.

LAW LIFE ASSURANCE.

We knew not what this meant, until we received a strange document from Higgs, in London--which
begun, "Middlesex to wit. Samuel Cox, late of Portland Place, in the city of Westminster, in
the said county, was attached to answer Samuel Scapgoat, of a plea, wherefore, with force and
arms, he entered into one messuage, with the appurtenances, which John Tuggeridge, Esq., demised
to the said Samuel Scapgoat, for a term which is not yet expired, and ejected him." And it
went on to say that "we, with force of arms, viz, with swords, knives, and staves, had ejected
him." Was there ever such a monstrous falsehood? when we did but stand in defence of our own;
and isn't it a sin that we should have been turned out of our rightful possessions upon such
a rascally plea?

Higgs, Biggs, and Blatherwick had evidently been bribed; for would you believe it?--they told
us to give up possession at once, as a will was found, and we could not defend the action.
My Jemmy refused their proposal with scorn, and laughed at the notion of the will: she pronounced
it to be a forgery, a vile blackamoor forgery; and believes, to this day, that the story of
its having been made thirty years ago, in Calcutta, and left there with old Tug's papers, and
found there, and brought to England, after a search made by order of Tuggeridge junior, is
a scandalous falsehood.

Well, the cause was tried. Why need I say anything concerning it? What shall I say of the Lord
Chief Justice, but that he ought to be ashamed of the wig he sits in? What of Mr. ---- and
Mr. ----, who exerted their eloquence against justice and the poor? On our side, too, was no
less a man than Mr. Serjeant Binks, who, ashamed I am, for the honor of the British bar, to
say it, seemed to have been bribed too: for he actually threw up his case! Had he behaved like
Mr. Mulligan, his junior--and to whom, in this humble way, I offer my thanks--all might have
been well. I never knew such an effect produced, as when Mr. Mulligan, appearing for the first
time in that court, said, "Standing here upon the pidestal of secred Thamis; seeing around
me the arnymints of a profission I rispict; having before me a vinnerable judge, and an enlightened
jury--the counthry's glory, the netion's cheap defender, the poor man's priceless palladium:
how must I thrimble, my lard, how must the blush bejew my cheek--" (somebody cried out, "O
CHEEKS!" In the court there was a dreadful roar of laughing; and when order was established,
Mr. Mulligan continued:)--"My lard, I heed them not; I come from a counthry accustomed to opprission,
and as that counthry--yes, my lard, THAT IRELAND--(do not laugh, I am proud of it)--is ever,
in spite of her tyrants, green, and lovely, and beautiful: my client's cause, likewise, will
rise shuperior to the malignant imbecility--I repeat, the MALIGNANT IMBECILITY--of those who
would thrample it down; and in whose teeth, in my client's name, in my counthry's--ay, and
MY OWN--I, with folded arrums, hurl a scarnful and eternal defiance!"

"For heaven's sake, Mr. Milligan"--("MULLIGAN, ME LARD," cried my defender)--"Well, Mulligan,
then, be calm, and keep to your brief."

Mr. Mulligan did; and for three hours and a quarter, in a speech crammed with Latin quotations,
and unsurpassed for eloquence, he explained the situation of me and my family; the romantic
manner in which Tuggeridge the elder gained his fortune, and by which it afterwards came to
my wife; the state of Ireland; the original and virtuous poverty of the Coxes--from which he
glanced passionately, for a few minutes (until the judge stopped him), to the poverty of his
own country; my excellence as a husband, father, landlord; my wife's, as a wife, mother, landlady.
All was in vain--the trial went against us. I was soon taken in execution for the damages;
five hundred pounds of law expenses of my own, and as much more of Tuggeridge's. He would not
pay a farthing, he said, to get me out of a much worse place than the Fleet. I need not tell
you that along with the land went the house in town, and the money in the funds. Tuggeridge,
he who had thousands before, had it all. And when I was in prison, who do you think would come
and see me? None of the Barons, nor Counts, nor Foreign Ambassadors, nor Excellencies, who
used to fill our house, and eat and drink at our expense,--not even the ungrateful Tagrag!

I could not help now saying to my dear wife, "See, my love, we have been gentlefolks for exactly
a year, and a pretty life we have had of it. In the first place, my darling, we gave grand
dinners, and everybody laughed at us."

"Yes, and recollect how ill they made you," cries my daughter.

"We asked great company, and they insulted us."

"And spoilt mamma's temper," said Jemimarann.

"Hush! Miss," said her mother; "we don't want YOUR advice."

"Then you must make a country gentleman of me."

"And send Pa into dunghills," roared Tug.

"Then you must go to operas, and pick up foreign Barons and Counts."

"Oh, thank heaven, dearest papa, that we are rid of them," cries my little Jemimarann, looking
almost happy, and kissing her old pappy.

"And you must make a fine gentleman of Tug there, and send him to a fine school."

"And I give you my word," says Tug, "I'm as ignorant a chap as ever lived."

"You're an insolent saucebox," says Jemmy; "you've learned that at your fine school."

"I've learned something else, too, ma'am; ask the boys if I haven't," grumbles Tug.

"You hawk your daughter about, and just escape marrying her to a swindler."

"And drive off poor Orlando," whimpered my girl.

"Silence! Miss," says Jemmy, fiercely.

"You insult the man whose father's property you inherited, and bring me into this prison, without
hope of leaving it: for he never can help us after all your bad language." I said all this
very smartly; for the fact is, my blood was up at the time, and I determined to rate my dear
girl soundly.

"Oh! Sammy," said she, sobbing (for the poor thing's spirit was quite broken), "it's all true;
I've been very, very foolish and vain, and I've punished my dear husband and children by my
follies, and I do so, so repent them!" Here Jemimarann at once burst out crying, and flung
herself into her mamma's arms, and the pair roared and sobbed for ten minutes together. Even
Tug looked queer: and as for me, it's a most extraordinary thing, but I'm blest if seeing them
so miserable didn't make me quite happy.--I don't think, for the whole twelve months of our
good fortune, I had ever felt so gay as in that dismal room in the Fleet, where I was locked up.

Poor Orlando Crump came to see us every day; and we, who had never taken the slightest notice
of him in Portland Place, and treated him so cruelly that day at Beulah Spa, were only too
glad of his company now. He used to bring books for my girl, and a bottle of sherry for me;
and he used to take home Jemmy's fronts and dress them for her; and when locking-up time came,
he used to see the ladies home to their little three-pair bedroom in Holborn, where they slept
now, Tug and all. "Can the bird forget its nest?" Orlando used to say (he was a romantic young
fellow, that's the truth, and blew the flute and read Lord Byron incessantly, since he was
separated from Jemimarann). "Can the bird, let loose in eastern climes, forget its home? Can
the rose cease to remember its beloved bulbul?--Ah, no! Mr. Cox, you made me what I am, and
what I hope to die--a hairdresser. I never see a curling-irons before I entered your shop,
or knew Naples from brown Windsor. Did you not make over your house, your furniture, your emporium
of perfumery, and nine-and-twenty shaving customers, to me? Are these trifles? Is Jemimarann
a trifle? if she would allow me to call her so. Oh, Jemimarann, your Pa found me in the workhouse,
and made me what I am. Conduct me to my grave, and I never, never shall be different!" When
he had said this, Orlando was so much affected, that he rushed suddenly on his hat and quitted
the room.

Then Jemimarann began to cry too. "Oh, Pa!" said she, "isn't he--isn't he a nice young man?"

"I'm HANGED if he ain't," says Tug. "What do you think of his giving me eighteenpence yesterday,
and a bottle of lavender-water for Mimarann?"

"He might as well offer to give you back the shop at any rate," says Jemmy.

"What! to pay Tuggeridge's damages? My dear, I'd sooner die than give Tuggeridge the chance."

FAMILY BUSTLE.

Tuggeridge vowed that I should finish my days there, when he put me in prison. It appears that
we both had reason to be ashamed of ourselves; and were, thank God! I learned to be sorry for
my bad feelings toward him, and he actually wrote to me to say--

"SIR,--I think you have suffered enough for faults which, I believe, do not lie with you, so
much as your wife; and I have withdrawn my claims which I had against you while you were in
wrongful possession of my father's estates. You must remember that when, on examination of
my father's papers, no will was found, I yielded up his property, with perfect willingness,
to those who I fancied were his legitimate heirs. For this I received all sorts of insults
from your wife and yourself (who acquiesced in them); and when the discovery of a will, in
India, proved MY just claims, you must remember how they were met, and the vexatious proceedings
with which you sought to oppose them.

"I have discharged your lawyer's bill; and, as I believe you are more fitted for the trade
you formerly exercised than for any other, I will give five hundred pounds for the purchase
of a stock and shop, when you shall find one to suit you.

"I enclose a draft for twenty pounds to meet your present expenses. You have, I am told, a
son, a boy of some spirit: if he likes to try his fortune abroad, and go on board an Indiaman,
I can get him an appointment; and am, Sir, your obedient servant,

"JOHN TUGGERIDGE"

It was Mrs. Breadbasket, the housekeeper, who brought this letter, and looked mighty contemptuous
as she gave it.

"I hope, Breadbasket, that your master will send me my things at any rate," cries Jemmy. "There's
seventeen silk and satin dresses, and a whole heap of trinkets, that can be of no earthly use
to him."

"Don't Breadbasket me, mem, if you please, mem. My master says that them things is quite obnoxious
to your sphere of life. Breadbasket, indeed!" And so she sailed out.

Jemmy hadn't a word; she had grown mighty quiet since we have been in misfortune: but my daughter
looked as happy as a queen; and Tug, when he heard of the ship, gave a jump that nearly knocked
down poor Orlando. "Ah, I suppose you'll forget me now?" says he with a sigh; and seemed the
only unhappy person in company.

"Why, you conceive, Mr. Crump," says my wife, with a great deal of dignity, "that, connected
as we are, a young man born in a work--"

"Woman!" cried I (for once in my life determined to have my own way), "hold your foolish tongue.
Your absurd pride has been the ruin of us hitherto; and, from this day, I'll have no more of
it. Hark ye, Orlando, if you will take Jemimarann, you may have her; and if you'll take five
hundred pounds for a half-share of the shop, they're yours; and THAT'S for you, Mrs. Cox."

