PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 100.

January 31, 1891.

VOCES POPULI.

A ROW IN THE PIT; OR, THE OBSTRUCTIVE HAT.

    SCENE--The Pit during Pantomime Time.

    The Overture is beginning.

An Over-heated Matron (to her Husband). Well, they don't give you much room in 'ere, I must
say. Still, we done better than I expected, after all that crushing. I thought my ribs was
gone once--but it was on'y the umbrella's. You pretty comfortable where you are, eh. Father?

Father. Oh, I'm right enough, I am.

Jimmy (their Son; a small boy, with a piping voice). If Father is, it's more nor what I am.
I can't see, Mother, I can't!

His Mother. Lor' bless the boy! there ain't nothen to see yet; you'll see well enough when
the Curting goes up. (Curtain rises on opening scene). Look, JIMMY, ain't that nice, now? All
them himps dancin' round, and real fire comin' out of the pot--which I 'ope it's quite safe--and
there's a beautiful fairy just come on, dressed so grand, too!

Jimmy. I can't see no fairy--nor yet no himps--no nothen! [He whimpers.

His Mother (annoyed). Was there ever such a aggravating boy to take anywheres! Set quiet, do,
and don't fidget, and look at the hactin'!

Jimmy. I tell yer I can't see no hactin', Mother. It ain't my fault--it's this lady in front
o' me, with the 'at.

Mother (perceiving the justice of his complaints). Father, the pore boy says he can't see where
he is, 'cause of a lady's hat in front.

Father. Well, I can't 'elp the 'at, can I? He must put up with it, that's all!

Mother. No--but I thought, if you wouldn't mind changing places with him--you're taller than
him, and it wouldn't be in your way 'arf so much.

Father. It's always the way with you--never satisfied, you ain't! Well, pass the boy across--I'm
for a quiet life, I am. (Changing seats.) Will this do for you?

    [He settles down immediately behind a very large, and furry,
    and feathery hat, which he dodges for some time, with the
    result of obtaining an occasional glimpse of a pair of legs on
    the stage.

Father (suddenly). D---- the 'at!

Mother. You can't wonder at the boy not seeing! P'raps the lady wouldn't might taking it off,
if you asked her?

Father. Ah! (He touches The Owner of the Hat on the shoulder.) Excuse me, Mum, but might I
take the liberty of asking you to kindly remove your 'at? [The Owner of the Hat deigns no reply.

Father (more insistently). Would you 'ave any objection to oblige me by taking off your 'at,
Mum? (Same result.) I don't know if you 'eard me, Mum, but I've asked you twice, civil enough,
to take that 'at of yours off. I'm a playin' 'Ide and Seek be'ind it 'ere!

    [No answer.

The Mother. People didn't ought to be allowed in the Pit with sech 'ats! Callin' 'erself a
lady--and settin' there in a great 'at and feathers like a 'Ighlander's, and never answering
no more nor a stuffed himage!

Father (to the Husband of The Owner of the Hat). Will you tell your good lady to take her 'at
off, Sir, please?

The Owner of the Hat (to her Husband). Don't you do nothing of the sort, SAM, or you'll 'ear of it!

The Mother. Some people are perlite, I must say. Parties might beyave as ladies when they come
in the Pit! It's a pity her 'usband can't teach her better manners!

The Father. 'Im teach her! 'E knows better. 'E's got a Tartar there, 'e 'as!

The Owner of the Hat. SAM, are you going to set by and hear me insulted like this?

Her Husband (turning round tremulously). I--I'll trouble you to drop making these personal
allusions to my wife's 'at, Sir. It's puffickly impossible to listen to what's going on on
the stage, with all these remarks be'ind!

The Father. Not more nor it is to see what's going on on the stage with that 'at in front!
I paid 'arf-a-crown to see the Pantermime, I did; not to 'ave a view of your wife's 'at!...
'Ere, MARIA, blowed if I can stand this 'ere game any longer. JIMMY must change places again,
and if he can't see, he must stand up on the seat, that's all!

    [JIMMY is transferred to his original place, and mounts upon
    the seat.

A Pittite behind Jimmy (touching up JIMMY's Father with an umbrella). Will you tell your little
boy to set down, please, and not block the view like this?

Jimmy's Father. If you can indooce that lady in front to take off her 'at, I will--but not
before. Stay where you are, JIMMY, my boy.

The Pittite behind. Well, I must stand myself then, that's all. I mean to see, somehow! [He rises.

People behind him (sternly). Set down there, will yer?

    [He resumes his seat expostulating.

Jimmy. Father, the gentleman behind is a pinching of my legs!

Jimmy's Father. Will you stop pinching my little boy's legs! He ain't doing you no 'arm--is he?

The Pinching Pittite. Let him sit down, then!

Jimmy's Father. Let the lady take her 'at off!

Murmurs behind. Order, there! Set down! Put that boy down! Take orf that 'at! Silence in front,
there! Turn 'em out! Shame!... &c., &c.

The Husband of the O. of the H. (in a whisper to his Wife). Take off the blessed 'at, and have
done with it, do!

The O. of the H. What--now? I'd sooner die in the 'at!

    [An Attendant is called.

The Attendant. Order, there, Gentlemen, please--unless you want to get turned out! No standing
allowed on the seats--you're disturbing the performance 'ere, you know!

    [JIMMY is made to sit down, and weeps silently; the hubbub
    gradually subsides--and The Owner of the Hat triumphs--for
    the moment.

Jimmy's Mother. Never mind, my boy, you shall have Mother's seat in a minute. I dessay, if
all was known, the lady 'as reasons for keeping her 'at on, pore thing!

The Father. Ah, I never thought o' that. So she may. Very likely her 'at won't come off--not
without her 'air!

The Mother. Ah, well, we musn't be 'ard on her, if that's so.

The O. of the H. (removing the obstruction). I 'ope you're satisfied now, I'm sure?

The Father (handsomely). Better late nor never, Mum, and we take it kind of you. Though, why
you shouldn't ha' done it at fust, I dunno; for you look a deal 'ansomer without the 'at than,
what you did in it--don't she, MARIA?

The O. of the H. (mollified). SAM, ask the gentleman behind if his boy would like a ginger-nut.

    [This olive-branch is accepted; compliments pass; cordiality
    is restored, and the Pantomime proceeds without further
    disturbance.

       *       *       *       *       *

SOMETHING LIKE A SUBSCRIPTION!

(A PAGE FROM THE BOOK OF PHILANTHROPY.)

The Committee waited impatiently the arrival of the Great and Good Man. It was their duty to
obtain a donation--an ample one--from the Millionnaire whose charity was renowned far and wide,
from one end of the world to the other. At length he appeared before them.

"What can I do for you?" he asked, with a smile that absolutely shone with benevolence.

"You know, Sir, that the claims of the poor in the Winter are numerous, and difficult to meet?"

"Certainly I do," returned the Man of Wealth, "and hope that you are about to ask me for a
subscription."

"Indeed we were," cried the spokesman of the Committee, his eyes filling with grateful tears.
"May I put you down for five pounds?"

"Five pounds!" echoed the Millionnaire, impatiently, "What is five pounds?--five thousand is
much more like the figure! Now, I will give you five thousand pounds on one condition."

"Name it!" cried the Deputation in a breath.

"The simplest thing in the world," continued the Millionnaire. "I will give you five thousand
pounds on the condition that you get ninety-nine other fellows to do the same. Nay, you shall
thank me when all is collected. I can wait till then."

       *       *       *       *       *

The above words were spoken more than thirty years ago. Since then the Deputation have been
waiting for the other fellows--and so has the Millionnaire!

       *       *       *       *       *

PROFESSOR V. PROFESSOR.

PROFESSOR VIRCHOW seems by no means Koch-sure about the tuberculosis remedy. Indeed Professor
KOCH finds that there is not only "much virtue in an 'if,'" but much "if" in a VIRCHOW! He
is inclined to sing with SWINBURNE:--

  "Come down, and redeem us from VIRCHOW."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FRIEND OF IRELAND AND THE WORDY KNIFE-GRINDER.

(IMITATION SAPPHICS SOME WAY AFTER CANNING AND FRERE.)

Friend of Ireland:--

  "Wordy Knife-Grinder! Whither are you going?
  Dark is your way--your wheel looks out of order--
  Mitchelstown palls, and there seems no more spell in
            O'BRIEN's breeches!

  "Wordy Knife-Grinder, little think the proud ones,
  Who in their speeches prate about their Union-
  Ism, what hard work 'tis to keep a Party
            Tightly together!

  "Tell me, Knife-Grinder, what your little game is.
  Do you mean playing straight with me and others?
  Or would you jocky Erin like a confounded
            Saxon attorney?

  "Give us a glimpse of that same Memorandum!
  Pledge yourself clear to what needs no explaining!
  Prove that your plan is not quite a sham, sly-whittled
            Down into nullity!

  "Ere I depart (if go I must, TIM HEALY)
  Give me a pledge that I'm not sold for nothing.
  Tell us in plain round words, without evasion, the
            True Hawarden story."

Knife-Grinder.

  "Story! God bless yer! I have none to tell, Sir!
  Never tell stories, I; 'tis my sole business
  This Wheel to turn with treadle and cry, 'Knives and
            Scissors to grind O!'

  "Constabulary? Question of Land Purchase?
  Number of Irish Members due in justice?
  Never said aught about 'em; don't intend to--
            Not for the present.

  "I shall be glad to do what honour urgeth;
  Grind on alone, if you will give me carte-blanche,
  Make room for JUSTIN, and forbear to meddle
            With politics, Sir!"

Friend of Ireland.

  "I give thee carte-blanche? I will see thee blowed first--
  Fraud! whom no frank appeal can move to frankness--
  Sophist, evasive, garrulous, word-web-spinning
            Subtle Old Spider!!!"

[Kicks the Knife-Grinder, overturns his Wheel, and exit in a fury of patriotic enthusiasm and
forcible language.

       *       *       *       *       *

CAPITAL AND LABOUR FORECAST;

OR, SIX OF ONE AND HALF-A-DOZEN OF THE OTHER.

Though in some quarters a better feeling was reported to have prevailed, still, according to
latest accounts, the outlook can scarcely be regarded as satisfactory. A meeting of the Amalgamated
Engineering Tram-Drivers' Mutual Stand-Shoulder-to-Shoulder Strangulation Society was held
on Glasgow Green yesterday afternoon, at which, amid a good deal of boisterous interruption,
several delegates addressed the assembled audience and recounted their recent experiences up
to date. There were still 1700 of the Company's old hands out of work, and though, thanks to
the profound enthusiasm, "their just cause" had excited amidst the Trade Societies in the South,
by which, owing to subscriptions from no less important bodies than the Bootmakers' Benevolent
Grandmothers' Association, and Superannuated Undertakers' Orphan Society, they had been able
to stay out and defy the Company, receiving all the while, every man of them, a stipend of
3s. 9d. a-week, still they had almost come to the end of their resources, and all that they
had in hand towards next week's fund for distribution, was £1 13s. 7-1/2d., received in coppers
from the Deputy-Chairman of the Metropolitan Boys' Boot-blacking Brigade, accompanied with
an intimation that that help must be regarded as the last that can be counted on from that
quarter. Under these circumstances it became a question whether it was not almost time to consider
some terms of compromise.

In the above sense one of the speakers addressed the meeting, but he was speedily followed
by another, who insisted that, "come what might," they would stick to their latest terms, which
were, a three-hours' day--(loud cheers)--and time-and-three-quarters for any work expected
after three o'clock in the afternoon. (Prolonged cheering.)

A Delegate here rose, and said it was all very well their cheering, but could they get it?
(A Voice, "We'll try!") For his part, the speaker continued, he had had enough of trying. With
wife and children starving at home, he had only one course open to him, and that was, to knock
under to the Company and their ten-hours' day, if they would have him. (Groans, amid which
the Speaker had his hat knocked over his eyes, and was kicked out of the assembly.)

The discussion was then continued, much in the same vein, and eventually culminated in a free
fight, in which the Chairman got his head broken, on declaring that a Motion further limiting
the working day to two hours and a half, was lost by a narrow majority.

Yesterday afternoon the Directors' Mutual Anti-Labour Protection Company met at their Central
Offices for the despatch of their usual business. The ordinary Report was read, which announced
that though the affairs of three great Railway Companies had "gone" literally "to the dogs,"
still, the Directors of each had to be congratulated on showing a firm front, in refusing to
acknowledge even the existence of their employés. The usual congratulatory Motions were put,
pro formâ, and passed, and, amid a general manifestation of gloomy satisfaction, the meeting
was further adjourned.

       *       *       *       *       *

"A SALVAGE MAN."

  Rudyard Kipling has hit on a picturesque plan;
  He describes in strong language "the savage in Man."
  Whilst amongst the conventions he raids and he ravages.
  We'd like just a leetle more "Man" in his savages.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM OUR MUSICAL BOX.

We sent our Musical Box (Cox being unable to accompany him on the piano or any other instrument,
by reason of the severe weather) to hear STAVENHAGEN at St. James's Hall, Thursday last, the
22nd. Our Musical B. was nearly turned out of the hall, he was in such ecstasies of delight
over a Beethovenly concerto, which "bangs Banagher," he said, subsequently translating the
expression by explaining, "that is, beats BEETHOVEN." Our M.B. wept over a cadenza composed
by the performer, and was only restored by the appearance--her first--of Madame STAVENHAGEN,
who gave somebody's grand scena far better, probably, than that somebody could have given it
himself, set as it was to fine descriptive music by the clever STAVENHAGEN, which delighted
all hearers, especially those who were Liszt-eners. "Altogether," writes our Musical Box, "a
very big success. Music is thirsty work. I am now about to do a symphony in B. and S."

       *       *       *       *       *

VICE VERSÂ.

  A poet in the Forum asks the question,
  "Is Verse in Danger?" 'Tis a wild suggestion!
  Is Verse in Danger? Nay, that's not the curse;
  Danger (of utter boredom) is in Verse!

       *       *       *       *       *

"ODD MAN OUT."--On Saturday last, the last among the theatrical advertisements in the Daily
Telegraph was the mysterious one, "MR. CHARLES SUGDEN AT LIBERTY," and then followed his address.
"At Liberty!" What does it mean? Has he been--it is a little difficult to choose the right
word, but let us say immured--has he been immured in some cell?--for it does sound like a "sell"
of another sort--and has he at last effected a sensational escape? No doubt CHARLES, our friend,
will be able to offer the public a satisfactory explanation when he re-appears on the Stage
which suffers from his absence.

       *       *       *       *       *

PLAYING OLD GOOSEBERRY AT THE HAYMARKET;

OR, THE DOOK, THE DANCING GIRL, AND THE LITTLE LAME DUCK.

What is to be admired in ENERY HAUTHOR JONES is not so much his work but his pluck,--for has
he not, in the first place, overcome the prudery of the Lord Chamberlain's Licensing Department,
and, in the second place, has he not introduced on the boards of the Haymarket a good old-fashioned
Melodrama, brought "up to date," and disguised in a Comedy wrapper? Walk in, Ladies and Gentlemen,
and see The Dancing Girl, a Comedy-Drama shall we call it, or, generically, a Play? wherein
the prominent figures are a wicked Duke,--vice the "wicked Baronet," now shelved, as nothing
under the ducal rank will suit us nowadays, bless you!--a Provincial Puritan family, an honest
bumpkin lover, a devil of a dancing woman who lives a double-shuffling sort of life, an angel
of a lame girl,--who, of course, can't cut capers but goes in for coronets,--a sly, unprincipled,
and calculating kind of angel she is too, but an audience that loves Melodrama is above indulging
in uncharitable analysis of motive,--a town swell in the country, a more or less unscrupulous
land-agent, and a genuine, honest "heavy father," of the ancient type, with a good old-fashioned
melodramatic father's curse ready at the right moment, the last relic of a bygone period of
the transpontine Melodrama, which will bring tears to the eyes of many an elderly playgoer
on hearing the old familiar formula, in the old familiar situation, reproduced on the stage
of the modern Haymarket as if through the medium of a phonophone.

At all events, Drusilla Ives, alias "the Dancing Girl "--though as to where she dances, how
she dances, and when she dances, we are left pretty well in the dark, as she only gives so
slight a taste of her quality that it seemed like a very amateurish imitation of Miss KATE
VAUGHAN in her best day,--Drusilla Ives is the mistress, neither pure nor simple, of the Duke
of Guisebury,--a title which is evidently artfully intended by the, at present, "Only JONES"
to be a compound of the French "Guise" and the English "Bury,"--who from his way of going on
and playing old gooseberry with his property, might have been thus styled with advantage: and
so henceforth let us think and speak of him as His Grace or His Disgrace the Duke of Gooseberry.

This Duke of Gooseberry visits, "quite unbeknown,"--being, for this occasion only, the Duke
of Disguisebury,--his own property, the Island of St. Endellion, just to see, we suppose, what
sort of people the Quaker family may be from which his mistress, the Dancing Quakeress (and
how funny she used to be at the Music Halls and at the Gaiety!), has sprung. For some reason
or other, the Dancing Quakeress has gone to stay a few weeks with her family in the country,
and while this hypocritical Daughter of HERODIAS is with her Quaker belongings at prayers in
the Meeting House, the spirit moveth her to come out, and to come out uncommonly strong, as,
within a yard or so of the building, she laughs and talks loudly with Gooseberry, and then
in a light-hearted way she treats the Dook to some amateur imitations of ELLEN TERRY, finishing
up with a reminiscence of KATE VAUGHAN; all of which al fresco entertainment is given for the
benefit of the aforesaid Gooseberry within sound of the sermon and within sight of the Meeting
House windows. Suddenly her rustic Quaker lover, a kind of Ham Peggotty, lounges out of the
Conventicle, which, as these persons seem to leave and enter just when it suits them, ought
rather to be called a Chapel-of-Ease,--and, like the clown that he is, says in effect, "I'm
a-looking at yer! I've caught yer at it!" Dismay of Dook and Dancer!! then Curtain on a most
emphatically effective situation.

The Second Act is far away the best of the lot, damaged, however, by vain repetitions of words
and actions. To the house where Miss Dancing Girl is openly living under the protection of
Gooseberry, the Duke's worthy Steward actually brings his virtuous and ingenuous young daughter!
If ever there were a pair of artful, contriving, scheming humbugs, it is this worthy couple.
Because the Duke saved her from being run over by his own horses, therefore she considers herself
at liberty to limp after him, and round him, and about him, on every possible occasion, to
say sharp, priggish things to him, to make love to him, and in the Third Act so craftily to
manage as to spot him just as he is about to drink off a phial of poison, which operation,
being preceded by a soliloquy of strong theatrical flavour and considerable length, gives the
lame girl a fair chance of hobbling down the stairs and arresting the thus "spotted Nobleman's"
arm at the critical moment. Curtain, and a really fine dramatic situation. "Which nobody can deny."

It is in this same Third Act that the fine old crusted melodramatic curse is uncorked, and
a good imperial quart of wrath is poured out on his dancing daughter's head by the heavy father,
who, in his country suit, forces his way into the gilded halls of the Duke's mansion, past
the flunkeys, the head butler, and all the rest of the usual pampered menials. An audience
that can accept this old-fashioned cheap-novel kind of clap-trap, and witness, without surprise,
the marvellous departure of all the guests, supperless, for no assigned cause, or explicable
reason, not even an alarm of fire having been given, will swallow a considerable amount.

The Fourth Act is an anticlimax, and shows up the faulty construction of the drama. Of course
the news comes that the Dancing Girl is dead, and this information is brought by a Sainte Nitouche
of a "Sister" of some Theatrical Order (not admitted after half-past seven), whose very appearance
is a suggestio falsi. Equally, of course, a letter is found, which, as exculpating Gooseberry,
induces the old cuss of a Puritan father to shake hands with the converted "Spotted Nobleman";
but, be it remembered, the Dook is still his landlord, and the value of the property is going
up considerably. Then it appears that the old humbug of an agent has sagaciously speculated
in the improvement of the island, and poor Gooseberry feels under such an obligation to that
sly puss of an agent's daughter, that, in a melancholy sort of way, he offers her his hand,
which she, the artful little hussy of a Becky Sharp, with considerable affectation of coyness,
accepts, and down goes the Curtain upon as unsatisfactory and commonplace a termination to
a good Melodrama as any Philistine of the Philistines could possibly wish. It would have been
a human tragedy indeed had poor Gooseberry poisoned himself, and the girl whose life he had
saved had arrived just too late, only to die of a broken heart. But that "is quite another story."

The piece is well played all round, especially by the men. Mr. TREE is excellent, except in
the ultra-melodramatic parts, where he is too noisy. The very best thing he does is the perfect
finish of the Second Act, when, without a word, he sits in the chair before the fire lost in
dismal thought. This is admirable: as perfect in its dramatic force as it is true to nature.
It is without exception the best thing in the whole piece. Mr. F. KERR as Reginald Slingsby,
achieves a success unequalled since Mr. BANCROFT played the parvenu swell Hawtree. It should
be borne in mind that Mr. KERR only recently played admirably the poor stuttering shabby lover
in The Struggle for Life. Il ira loin, ce bon M. KERR. Miss JULIA NEILSON looks the part to
the life: when she has ceased to give occasional imitations of Miss ELLEN TERRY, and can really
play the part as well as she looks it, then nothing more could be possibly desired. All the
others as good as need be, or can be.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BOGEY, MAN!

(RETORT OF A LADY-PLAYER WHO PLAYS "FOR LOVE.")

    ["No game was ever yet invented which held the female mind in
    thrall save by indirect means. Where would croquet have been,
    so far as the Ladies were concerned, without its Curates, or
    lawn-tennis without its 'Greek gods' ... If men played for
    nothing, they would find it dull enough."--JAMES PAYN]

  'Tis mighty well for Menfolk at Womankind to gibe,
  And swear they do not care for games without some lure or bribe,
  But e'en in JAMES PAYN's armour there seems some weakish joints;
  He does not care for "glorious Whist" unless for "sixpenny points!"
      Whist! Whist! Whist! It charms the Bogey, Man:
      Whist! Whist! Whist! He'll play it when he can.
      But "pointless Whist," as PAYN admits, is not at all his plan;
      You must have "money on" to please the Bogey, Man!

  Now, Ladies like to play "for love," a fault male hucksters blame,
  But only sordid souls deny that is the true "grand game."
  Man's vulgarer ambition's not just to play well and win;
  His eye is ever on the stakes, his interest on the "tin."
      Whist! Whist! Whist! That blatant Bogey, Man!
      Whist! Whist! Whist! He'll flout us when he can.
      "Indirect means" though, after all, are portions of his plan;
      For all his brag he loves the "swag," the Bogey, Man!

       *       *       *       *       *

MUM'S THE WORD!

    [Mr. CHAMBERLAIN presided lately at a Deaf-and-Dumb Meeting.]

            JOSEPH reflecteth:--
  Deaf-mutes make the best audience, I see;
    They gave me no rude flood of gibes to stem.
  True, they were deaf, and so could not hear me,
    But they were dumb, so I could not hear them!

       *       *       *       *       *

MADAME ROLAND RE-EDITED (from a sham-Japanese point of view).--O LIBERTY! what strange (decorative)
things are done in thy name!

       *       *       *       *       *

JACK'S APPEAL.

    ["It is impossible for warrant-officers in the Navy not to
    see that they are placed at a disadvantage as compared with
    non-commissioned officers in the Army, and it must be
    very difficult to persuade them that the two cases are
    so essentially different as to afford no real ground for
    grievance."--The "Times," on "An Earnest Appeal on Behalf of
    the Rank and File of the Navy."]

Jack Tar to Tommy Atkins, loquitur:--

  TOMMY ATKINS, TOMMY ATKINS, penmen write pertikler fine
  Of the Wooden Walls of England, and likeways the Thin Red Line;
  But for those as form that Line, mate, or for those as man them Walls,
  Scribes don't seem so precious anxious to kick up their lyric squalls.
  Not a bit of it, my hearty; for one reason--it don't pay;
  There is small demand, my TOMMY, for a DIBDIN in our day.
  Oh, I know that arter dinner your M.P.'s can up and quote
  Tasty tit-bits from old CHARLEY, which they all reel off by rote;
  But if there is a cherub up aloft to watch poor JACK,
  That there cherub ain't a poet,--bards are on another tack.

  TOMMY ATKINS, TOMMY ATKINS, BULL is sweet on "loyal toasts,"
  And he spends his millions freely on his squadrons and his hosts,
  But there isn't much on't, messmate, not so fur as I can see,
  Whether 'tis rant or rhino, that gets spent on you and me.
  Still the Times has took our case up,--werry handsome o' the Times!--
  I have heard it charged with prejudice, class-hate, and similar crimes,
  But it shows it's got fair sperret and a buzzum as can feel
  When it backs us with a "Leader" arter printing our "Appeal."
  You are better off, my TOMMY, than the Navy Rank and File,
  You may chance to get promotion,--arter waiting a good while--
  But the tip-top of Tar luck's to be a Warrant Officer;
  We ain't like to get no further, if we even get as fur.
  'Tain't encouraging, my hearty. As for me, I'm old and grey,
  'Tis too late now for promotion if it chanced to come my way;
  And my knowledge, and my patter, and my manners--well I guess
  They mayn't be percisely fitted for a dandy ward-room mess.
  But the Navy of the Future, TOMMY ATKINS, is our care,
  We have gone through many changes, and for others must prepare.
  It will make the Navy popular, more prospect of advance;
  And what I say is, TOMMY,--let the young uns have a chance!
  Some I know will cry "Impossible," and slate the scheme like fun.
  Most good things are "impossible," my TOMMY,--till they're done!
  Quarter-decks won't fill from fokesels, not to any great extent;
  But, give good men a better chance! I guess that's all that's meant.
  As the Times says, werry sensible and kind-like, prejudice,
  Though strong at first, dies quickly, melts away like thaw-struck ice;
  If every brave French soldier, with a knapsack on his back,
  May find a Marshal's baton at the bottom of that pack,
  Why should not a true British Tar, with pluck, and luck, and wit,
  Find at last a "Luff's" commission hidden somewheres in his kit?

       *       *       *       *       *

WAKING THEM UP.

FLY-LEAF FROM AN ENERGETIC KAISER'S DIARY.

10 P.M.--Slip out of Opera and take somebody else's overcoat from cloak-room when nobody is
looking, jump into a four-wheeler, and drive to station. Am recognised, and a special train
is called out. Give them the slip, and get into a horse-box of third-class omnibus-train just
about to start.

10.15 P.M. t 2.30 A.M.--Still in horse-box.

2.45 AM.--Stop at a big town. Hurry out. Stopped for ticket. Throw off disguise of somebody
else's overcoat, and declare myself. Guard called out to escort me. When they are looking the
other way, hide under refreshment-counter, and get out of station unobserved on all-fours.
Am collared by a policeman. Again have to declare myself. Give policeman twenty marks, bind
him to silence, and borrow his official cloak. Find out Burgomaster's address. Hammer at his
front door till I have stirred up the whole household.

4 A.M. to 5 A.M.--Find out the Archbishop. Bang at his front door till he puts his head out
of window, and wants to know "What on earth's the matter?" Hide round the corner. Repeat same
business, with more or less success, at the residence of the Chief Justice, then at that of
the Clerk of the Peace, and at those of any other officials I can call to mind, winding up
by a regular good row at that of the General in Command. Trumpeter comes out. Take bugle from
him, and give the call. General in Command rubs his eyes sleepily, and says he'll be down presently.

5 A.M.--Hurry back to station. Catch early cattle-train going back to Berlin. Jump on engine,
and declare myself. Wire approach down line, and tear away with the cattle, at seventy miles
an hour, getting back to Berlin just in time for breakfast. Fancy I woke them up! Altogether,
a very enjoyable outing.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"ROUGE ET NOIR!"

OR, JONATHAN'S PERPLEXING PROBLEM.

(SOME WAY AFTER HOSEA BIGLOW'S "JONATHAN TO JOHN.")

Jonathan (who has been reading the Articles on "The Negro Question in the United States," in
the English "Times") loq.:--

  It may be ez you're right, JOHN,
    And both my hands are full;
  You know ez I can fight, JOHN,
    (I've wiped out "Sitting Bull").
  Ole Uncle S. sez he, "I guess
    We see our fix," sez he.
  "The 'Thunderer's' paw lays down the law,
    Accordin' to J.B.
    To square it's left to me!"

  Blood ain't so cool as ink, JOHN;
    Big words are easy wrote;
  The "coons"--well, you don't think, JOHN,
    I'll let 'em cut my throat.
  Ole Uncle S. sez he, "I guess
    Ghost-dance must stop," sez he.
    "Suppose the 'braves' and black ex-slaves
    Hed b'longed to ole J.B.
    Insted of unto me?"

  Ten art'cles in your Times, JOHN,
    Hev giv me good advice.
  I mind th' old Slavery crimes, JOHN.
    I don't need tellin' twice.
  Ole Uncle S. sez he, "I guess,
    I only guess," sez he,
  "Seven million blacks on his folks' backs
    Would kind o' rile J.B.
    Ez much ez it riles me!"

  The Red Man,--well, I s'pose, JOHN,
    We'll hev to wipe him aout.
  Sech pizonous trash ez those, JOHN,
    The world kin do without.
  Ole Uncle S. sez he, "I guess
    Injuns must go," sez he.
    "COOPER's Red Man won't fit our plan,
    Though he once witched J.B.
    As once he fetched e'en me!"

  The Black Man! Ah, that's wuss, JOHN.
    The chaps wuz right, ay joost,
  Who said the Slavery cuss, JOHN,
    Wud yet come home to roost.
  Ole Uncle S. sez he, "I guess
    The problem set," sez he,
    "By that derned Nig. is black and big,
    And fairly puzzles me,
    Ez it wud do J.B."

  Your Times would right our wrongs, JOHN,
    --Always wuz sweet on us!--
  But on dilemma's prongs, JOHN,
    To fix me don't you fuss.

  Thet swaggerin' black buck Nig., JOHN,
    Is jest a grown-up kid;
  Ez happy as a ---- pig, JOHN,
    When doin' wut he's bid.
  Ole Uncle S. sez he, "I guess
    He's hateful when he's free.
  Equal with him, that dark-skinn'd limb?
    No; that will not suit me,
    More than it wud J.B.!"

  Emigrate the whole lot, JOHN?
    Well, that's a tallish task!
  In Afric's centre hot, JOHN,
    Send 'em to breed and bask?
  Ole Uncle S. sez he, "I guess
    I'd be right glad," sez he,
    "But--will they go? 'Tain't done, you know,
    As easy as J.B.
    Wud settle it--for me!"

  Rouge--there I see my way, JOHN.
    But Noir--thet's hard to front!
  It wun't be no child's play, JOHN,
    Seven million Nigs to shunt.

    [Left considering it.

       *       *       *       *       *

WELCOME BACK!

    [Mr. SANTLEY, who has been long absent in Australia,
    reappeared at St. James's Hall on Jan. 19, and was received
    with great enthusiasm.]

  Back from your Australian trip!
  Punch, my CHARLES, your fist must grip.
  You have lighted on a time
  When we're all chill, choke, and grime.
  'Twere no marvel, O great baritone,
  Did you find your voice had nary tone.
  But there's none like you can sing
  "To Anthea," "The Erl-King."
  SCHUBERT, GOUNOD, English HATTON,
  Equally your Fine Art's pat on.
  Punch can never praise you scantly.
  À votre santé, good CHARLES SANTLEY!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

FOR BETTER--OR WORSE.

    [At the Anti-Gambling Demonstration recently held in Exeter
    Hall, Sir RICHARD WEBSTER, the Attorney-General, said that it
    was supposed by many that it was impossible to enjoy athletic
    pursuits without becoming interested in a pecuniary sense. He
    should therefore like to add, not for the purpose of holding
    himself up as an example, that, during his entire interest in
    sports of all kinds, he had never made a bet.]

  Ah! these are days when Recklessness, bereft of ready cash,
  Will strive to remedy the void by speculative splash;
  It is a salutary sight for Bankruptcy and Debt--
  Our good Attorney-General who never made a bet.

  His interest in manly sports, an interest immense,
  Was ne'er degraded to a mere "pecuniary sense;"
  His boyhood's love of marbles leaves him nothing to regret--
  Our good Attorney-General who never made a bet.

  Next, when a youth, the cricket-bat he first began to wield,
  And "Heads or Tails?" re-echoed for the Innings through the field.
  He sternly scorned to toss the coin, howe'er his friends might fret--
  Our good Attorney-General who never made a bet.

