THE STORY OF AB

                     A TALE OF THE TIME OF THE CAVE MAN

                                     BY

                              STANLEY WATERLOO

                                    1905

          Author of "A Man and a Woman," "An Odd Situation," etc.

INTRODUCTION.

This is the story of Ab, a man of the Age of Stone, who lived so long ago that we cannot closely
fix the date, and who loved and fought well.

In his work the author has been cordially assisted by some of the ablest searchers of two continents
into the life history of prehistoric times. With characteristic helpfulness and interest, these
already burdened students have aided and encouraged him, and to them he desires to express
his sense of profound obligation and his earnest thanks.

Once only does the writer depart from accepted theories of scientific research. After an at
least long-continued study of existing evidence and information relating to the Stone Ages,
the conviction grew upon him that the mysterious gap supposed by scientific teachers to divide
Paleolithic from Neolithic man never really existed. No convulsion of nature, no new race of
human beings is needed to explain the difference between the relics of Paleolithic and Neolithic
strugglers. Growth, experiment, adaptation, discovery, inevitable in man, sufficiently account
for all the relatively swift changes from one form of primitive life to another more advanced,
from the time of chipped to that of polished implements. Man has been, from the beginning,
under the never resting, never hastening, forces of evolution. The earth from which he sprang
holds the record of his transformations in her peat-beds, her buried caverns and her rocky
fastnesses. The eternal laws change man, but they themselves do not change.

Ab and Lightfoot and others of the cave people whose story is told in the tale which follows
the author cannot disown. He has shown them as they were. Hungry and cold, they slew the fierce
beasts which were scarcely more savage than they, and were fed and clothed by their flesh and
fur. In the caves of the earth the cave men and their families were safely sheltered. Theirs
were the elemental wants and passions. They were swayed by love, in some form at least, by
jealousy, fear, revenge, and by the memory of benefits and wrongs. They cherished their young;
they fought desperately with the beasts of their time, and with each other, and, when their
brief, turbulent lives were ended, they passed into silence, but not into oblivion. The old
Earth carefully preserved their story, so that we, their children, may read it now.

S. W.

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER.

I. THE BABE IN THE WOODS.

II. MAN AND HYENA.

III. A FAMILY DINNER.

IV. AB AND OAK.

V. A GREAT ENTERPRISE.

VI. A DANGEROUS VISITOR.

VII. THE UNEXPECTED HAPPENS.

VIII. SABRE-TOOTH AND RHINOCEROS.

IX. DOMESTIC MATTERS.

X. OLD MOK, THE MENTOR.

XI. DOINGS AT HOME.

XII. OLD MOK'S TALES.

XIII. AB'S GREAT DISCOVERY.

XIV. A LESSON IN SWIMMING.

XV. A MAMMOTH AT BAY.

XVI. THE FEAST OF THE MAMMOTH.

XVII. THE COMRADES.

XVIII. LOVE AND DEATH.

XIX. A RACE WITH DREAD.

XX. THE FIRE COUNTRY.

XXI. THE WOOING OF LIGHTFOOT.

XXII. THE HONEYMOON.

XXIII. MORE OF THE HONEYMOON.

XXIV. THE FIRE COUNTRY AGAIN.

XXV. A GREAT STEP FORWARD.

XXVI. FACING THE RAIDER.

XXVII. LITTLE MOK.

XXVIII. THE BATTLE OF THE BARRIERS.

XXIX. OLD HILLTOP'S LAST STRUGGLE.

XXX. OUR VERY GREAT GRANDFATHER.

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

BY SIMON HARMON VEDDER

"HIS GREAT TRUNK SHOT DOWNWARD AND BACKWARD, PICKED UP THE MAN, AND HURLED HIM YARDS AWAY"

MAP

"AB SEIZED UPON TWO OF THE SNARLING CUBS, AND OAK DID THE SAME"

"AB SPRANG TO HIS FEET, AND DREW HIS ARROW TO THE HEAD"

"THE YOUNG MEN CALLED TO HER, BUT SHE MADE NO ANSWER. SHE BUT FISHED AWAY DEMURELY"

"AB STOOD THERE WEAPONLESS, A CREATURE WANDERING OF MIND"

"WITH A GREAT LEAP HE WENT AT AND THROUGH THE CURLING CREST OF THE YELLOW FLAME!"

"THE GIRL COWERED BEHIND A REFUGE OF LEAVES AND BRANCHES"

"UPON THE STRONG SHAFT OF ASH THE MONSTER WAS IMPALED"

THE STORY OF AB.

CHAPTER I.

THE BABE IN THE WOODS.

Drifted beech leaves had made a soft, clean bed in a little hollow in a wood. The wood was
beside a river, the trend of which was toward the east. There was an almost precipitous slope,
perhaps a hundred and fifty feet from the wood, downward to the river. The wood itself, a sort
of peninsula, was mall in extent and partly isolated from the greater forest back of it by
a slight clearing. Just below the wood, or, in fact, almost in it and near the crest of the
rugged bank, the mouth of a small cave was visible. It was so blocked with stones as to leave
barely room for the entrance of a human being. The little couch of beech leaves already referred
to was not many yards from the cave.

On the leafy bed rolled about and kicked up his short legs in glee a little brown babe. It
was evident that he could not walk yet and his lack of length and width and thickness indicated
what might be a babe not more than a year of age, but, despite his apparent youth, this man-child
seemed content thus left alone, while his grip on the twigs which had fallen into his bed was
strong, as he was strong, and he was breaking them delightedly. Not only was the hair upon
his head at least twice as long as that of the average year-old child of today, but there were
downy indications upon his arms and legs, and his general aspect was a swart and rugged one.
He was about as far from a weakly child in appearance as could be well imagined and he was
about as jolly a looking baby, too, as one could wish to see. He was laughing and cooing as
he kicked about among the beech leaves and looked upward at the blue sky. His dress has not
yet been alluded to and an apology for the negligence may be found in the fact that he had
no dress. He wore nothing. He was a baby of the time of the cave men; of the closing period
of the age of chipped stone instruments; the epoch of mild climate; the ending of one great
animal group and the beginning of another; the time when the mammoth, the rhinoceros, the great
cave tiger and cave bear, the huge elk, reindeer and aurochs and urus and hosts of little horses,
fed or gamboled in the same forests and plains, with much discretion as to relative distances
from each other.

It was some time ago, no matter how many thousands of years, when the child--they called him
Ab--lay there, naked, upon his bed of beech leaves. It may be said, too, that there existed
for him every chance for a lively and interesting existence. There was prospect that he would
be engaged in running away from something or running after something during most of his life.
Times were not dull for humanity in the age of stone. The children had no lack of things to
interest, if not always to amuse, them, and neither had the men and women. And this is the
truthful story of the boy Ab and his playmates and of what happened when he grew to be a man.

It is well to speak here of the river. The stream has been already mentioned as flowing to
the eastward. It did not flow in that direction regularly; its course was twisted and diverted,
and there were bays and inlets and rapids between precipices, and islands and wooded peninsulas,
and then the river merged into a lake of miles in extent, the waters converging into the river
again. So it was that the banks in one place might form a height and in another merge evenly
into a densely wooded forest or a wide plain. It was so, too, that these conditions might exist
opposite each other. Thus the woodland might face the plain, or the precipice some vast extending
marsh.

To speak further of this river it may be mentioned, incidentally, that to-day its upper reaches
still exist and that the relatively small stream remaining is called the Thames. Beside and
across it lies the greatest city in the world and its mouth is upon what is called the English
Channel. At the time when the baby, Ab, slept that afternoon in his nest in the beech leaves
this river was not called the Thames, it was only called the Running Water, to distinguish
it from the waters of the coast. It did not empty into the British Channel, for the simple
and sufficient reason that there was no such channel at the time. Where now exists that famous
passage which makes islands of Great Britain, where, tossed upon the choppy waves, the travelers
of the world are seasick, where Drake and Howard chased the Great Armada to the Northern seas
and where, to-day, the ships of the nations are steered toward a social and commercial center,
was then good, solid earth crowned with great forests, and the present little tail end of a
river was part of a great affluent of the Rhine, the German river famous still, but then with
a size and sweep worth talking of. Then the Thames and the Elbe and Weser, into which tumbled
a thousand smaller streams, all went to feed what is now the Rhine, and that then tremendous
river held its course through dense forests and deep gorges until it reached broad plains,
where the North Sea is to-day, and blended finally with the Northern Ocean.

The trees which stood upon the bank of the great river, or which could be seen in the far distance
beyond the marsh or plain, were not all the same as now exist. There was still a distinctive
presence of the towering conifers, something such as are represented in the redwood forests
of California to-day, or, in other forms, in some Australian woods. There was a suggestion
of the fernlike but gigantic age of growth of the distant past, the past when the earth's surface
was yet warm and its air misty, and there was an exuberance of all plant and forest growth,
something compared with which the growth in the same latitude, just now, would make, it may
be, but a stunted showing. It is wonderful, though, the close resemblance between most of the
trees of the cave man's age, so many tens of thousands of years ago, and the trees most common
to the temperate zone to-day. The peat bogs and the caverns and the strata of deposits in a
host of places tell truthfully what trees grew in this distant time. Already the oak and beech
and walnut and butternut and hazel reared their graceful forms aloft, and the ground beneath
their spreading branches was strewn with the store of nuts which gave a portion of food for
many of the beasts and for man as well. The ash and the yew were there, tough and springy of
fiber and destined in the far future to become famous in song and story, because they would
furnish the wood from which was made the weapon of the bowman. The maple was there with all
its symmetry. There was the elm, the dogged and beautiful tree-thing of to-day, which so clings
to life and nourishes in the midst of unwholesome city surroundings and makes the human hive
so much the better. There were the pines, the sycamore, the foxwood and dogwood, and lime and
laurel and poplar and elder and willow, and the cherry and crab apple and others of the fruit-bearing
kind, since so developed that they are great factors in man's subsistence now. It was a time
of plenty which was riotous. There remained, too, a vestige of the animal as well as of the
vegetable life of the remoter ages. There were strange and dangerous creatures which came sometimes
up the river from its inlet into the ocean. Such events had been matters of interest, not to
say of anxiety, to Ab's ancestors.

The baby lying there among the beech leaves tired, finally, of its cooing and twig-snapping
and slept the sleep of dreamless early childhood. He slept happily and noiselessly, but when
he at last awoke his demeanor showed a change. He had nothing to distract him, unless it might
be the breaking of twigs again. He had no toys, and, being hungry, he began to yell. So far
as can be learned from early data, babies, when hungry, have always yelled. And, of old, as
to-day, when a baby yelled, the woman who had borne it was likely to appear at once upon the
scene. Ab's mother came running lightly from the river bank toward where the youngster lay.
She was worthy of attention as she ran, and this is but a bungling attempt at a description
of her and of her dress.

It should be explained here, with much care and caution, that the mother of Ab moved in the
best and most exclusive circles of the time. She belonged to the aristocracy and, it may be
added, regarding this fine lady personally, that she had the weakness of paying much attention
to her dress. She was what might properly be called a leader of society, though society was
at the time somewhat attenuated, families living, generally, some miles apart, and various
obstacles, chiefly in the form of large, man-eating animals, complicating the matter of paying
calls. As for the calls themselves, they were nearly as often aggressive as social, and there
is a certain degree of difference between the vicious use of a flint ax and the leaving of
a card with a bending lackey. But all this doesn't matter. The mother of Ab belonged to the
very cream of the cream, and was dressed accordingly. Her garb was elegant but simple; it had,
first, the one great merit, that it could easily be put on or taken off. It was sustained with
but a single knot, a bow-knot--they had learned to make a bow-knot and other knots in the stone
age, for, because of the manual requirements for living, they were cleverer fumblers with their
fingers than we are now--and the lady here described had tied her knot in a manner not to be
excelled by any other woman in all the fiercely beast-ranged countryside.

The gown itself was of a quality to please the eye of the most carping. It was made from the
skins of wolverines, and was drawn in loosely about the waist by a tied band, but was really
sustained by a strip of the skin which encircled the left shoulder and back and breast. This
left the right arm free from all encumbrance, a matter of some importance, for to be right-handed
was a quality of the cave man as of the man today. We should have a grudge against them for
this carelessness, and should, may be, form an ambidextrous league, improving upon the past
and teaching and forcing young children to use each hand alike.

The garment of wolverine skins, sewed neatly together with thread of sinews, was all the young
mother wore. Thus hanging from the shoulder and fully encircling her, it reached from the waist
to about half way down between the hips and the knees. It was as delightful a gown as ever
was contrived by ambitious modiste or mincing male designer in these modern times. It fitted
with a free and easy looseness and its colors were such as blended smoothly and kindly with
the complexion of its wearer. The fur of the wolverine was a mixed black and white, but neither
black nor white is the word to use. The black was not black; it was only a swart sort of color,
and the white was not white; it was but a dingy, lighter contrast to the darker surface beside
it. Yet the combination was rather good. There was enough of difference to catch the eye and
not enough of glaringness to offend it. The mother of Ab would be counted by a wise observer
as the possessor of good taste. Still, dress is a small matter. There is something to say about
the cave mother aside from the mere description of her gown.

CHAPTER II.

MAN AND HYENA.

It is but an act of simple gallantry and justice to assert that the cave woman had a certain
unhampered swing of movement which the modern woman often lacks. Without any reflection upon
the blessed woman of to-day, it must be said truthfully that she can neither leap a creek nor
surmount some such obstacle as a monster tree trunk with a close approach to the ease and grace
of this mother who came bounding through the forest. There was nothing unknowing or hesitant
about her movements. She ran swiftly and leaped lightly when occasion came. She was lithe as
the panther and as careless of where her brown feet touched the ground.

The woman had physical charms. She was of about the average size of womanhood as we see it
embodied now, but her waist was not compressed at an unseemly angle, and much resembled in
its contour that of the Venus of Milo which has become such a stock example of the healthfully
symmetrical. Her hair was brown and long. It was innocent of knot or coil or braid, and was
transfixed by no abatis of dangerous pins. It was not parted but was thrown straight backward
over the head and hung down fairly and far between brown shoulders. It was a fine head of hair;
there could be no question about that. It had gloss and color. Captious critics, reasoning
from the standpoint of another age, might think it needed combing, but that is only a matter
of opinion. It was tangled together in a compact and fluffy mass, and so did not wander into
the woman's eyes, which was a good thing and a great convenience, for bright eyes and unobstructed
vision were required in those lively days.

The face of this lady showed, at a glance, that no cosmetic had ever been relied upon to give
it an artificial charm. As a matter of fact it would have been difficult to use cosmetics upon
that face in the modern way, for there was a suggestion of something more than down upon the
countenance, and there were certain irregularities of facial outline so prominent that such
details as the little matter of complexion must be trifling. The eyes were deep set and small,
the nose was short and thick and possessed a certain vagueness of outline not easy of description.
The upper lip was excessively long and the under lip protruding. The chin was well defined
and firm. The mouth was rather wide, and the teeth were strong and even, and as white as any
ivory ever seen. Such was the face, and there may be added some details of interest about the
figure. The arms of this fascinating woman were perfectly proportioned. They were adapted to
the times and were very beautiful. Down each of them from shoulder to elbow ran a strip of
short dark hair. From either hand ran upward to the elbow another strip of hair, and the two,
meeting at the elbow, formed a delightful little tuft reminding one of what is known as a "widow's
peak," or that little point which grows down so charmingly on an occasional woman's forehead.
Her biceps were tremendous, as must necessarily be the case with a lady accustomed to swing
from limb to limb along the treetops. Her thumb was nearly as long as her fingers, and the
palms of her hands were hard. Her legs were like her arms in their degree of muscular development
and hairy adornment. She had beautiful feet. It is to be admitted that her heels projected
a trifle more than is counted the ideal thing at the present day, and that her big toe and
all the other toes were very much in evidence, but there is not one woman in ten thousand now
who could as handily pick up objects with her toes as could the mother of the baby Ab. She
was as brown as a nut, with the tan of a half tropical summer, and as healthy a creature, from
tawny head to backward sloping heel, as ever trod a path in the world's history. This was the
quality of the lady who came so swiftly to learn the nature of her offspring's trouble. Ladies
of that day attended, as a rule, to the wants of their own children. A wet nurse was a thing
unknown and a dry one as unthought of. This was good for the children.

The woman made a dive into the little hollow and picked the babe from its nest of leaves and
tossed him up lightly, and at once his crying ceased, and his little brown arms went around
her neck, and he cooed and prattled in very much the same fashion as does a babe of the present
time. He was content, all in a moment, yet some noise must have aroused him, for, as it chanced,
there was great need that this particular babe at this particular moment should have awakened
and cried aloud for his mother. This was made evident immediately. As the woman tossed him
aloft in her arms and cuddled him again there came a sound to her ears which made her leap
like some wilder creature of the forest up to a little vantage ground. She turned her head,
and then--you should have seen the woman!

Very nearly above them swung down one of the branches of a great beech tree. The mother threw
the child into the hollow of her left arm, and leaped upward a yard to catch the branch with
her right hand. So she hung dangling. Then, instantly, holding him firmly by one arm in her
left hand, she lowered the child between her legs and clasped them about him closely. And then,
had it been your fortune to be born in those times, you might have seen good climbing. With
both her strong arms free, this vigorous matron ran up the stout beech limb which depended
downward from the great bole of the tree until she was twenty feet above the ground, and then,
lifting herself into a comfortable place, in a moment was sitting there at ease, her legs and
one arm coiled about the big branch and a smaller upstanding one, while the other arm held
the brown babe close to her bosom.

This charming lady of the period had reached her perch in the beech tree top none too soon.
Even as she swung herself into place upon the huge bough, there came rushing across the space
beneath, snarling, smelling and seeking, a brute as foul and dangerous as could be imagined
for mother and son upon the ground. It was of a dirty dun color, mottled and striped with a
lighter but still dingy hue. It had a black, hoggish nose, but there were fangs in its great
jaws. It resembled a huge wolf, save as to its massiveness and club countenance, It was one
of the monster hyenas of the time, a beast which must have been as dangerous to the men then
living as any animal except the cave tiger and the cave bear. Its degenerate posterity, as
they shuffle uneasily back and forth when caged to-day, are perhaps not less foul of aspect,
but are relatively pygmies. Doubtless the brute had scented the sleeping babe, and, snarling
aloud in its search, had waked it, inducing the cry which proved the child's salvation.

The beast scented immediately the prey above him and leaped upward ferociously and vainly.
Was the woman thus beset thus holding herself aloft and with her child upon one arm in a state
of sickening anxiety? Hardly! She but encircled the supporting branch the closer, and laughed
aloud. She even poked one bare foot down at the leaping beast, and waved her leg in provocation.
At the same time there was no doubt that she was beset. Furthermore she was hungry, and so
she raised her voice, and sent out through the forest a strange call, a quavering minor wail,
but something to be heard at a great distance. There was no delay in the response, for delays
were dangerous when cave men lived. The call was answered instantly and the answering cry was
repeated as she called again, the sound of the reply approaching near and nearer all the time.
All at once the manner of her calling changed; it was an appeal no longer; it was a conversation,
an odd, clucking, penetrating speech in the shortest of sentences. She was telling of the situation.
There was prompt reply; the voice seemed suddenly higher in the air and then came, swinging
easily from branch to branch along the treetops, the father of Ab, a person who felt a natural
and aggressive interest in what was going on.

To describe the cave man it is, it may be, best of all to say that he was the woman over again,
only stronger, longer limbed and deeper chested, firmer of jaw and more grim of countenance.
He was dressed almost as she was. From his broad shoulder hung a cloak of the skin of some
wild beast but the cord which tied it was a stout one, and in the belt thus formed was stuck
a weapon of such quality as men have rarely carried since. It was a stone ax; an ax heavier
than any battle-ax of mediaeval times, its haft a scant three feet in length, inclosing the
ax through a split in the tough wood, all being held in place by a taut and hardened mass of
knotted sinews. It was a fearful weapon, but one only to be wielded by such a man as this,
one with arms almost as mighty as those of the gorilla.

The man sat himself upon the limb beside his wife and child. The two talked together in their
clucking language for a moment or two, but few words were wasted. Words had not their present
abundance in those days; action was everything. The man was hungry, too, and wanted to get
home as soon as possible. He had secured food, which was awaiting them, and this slight, annoying
episode of the day must be ended promptly. He clambered easily up the tree and wrenched off
a deadened limb at least two yards in length, then tumbling back again and passing his wife
and child along the main branch, he swung down to where the leaping beast could almost reach
him. The heavy club he carried gave him an advantage. With a whistling sweep, as the hyena
leaped upward in its ravenous folly, came this huge club crashing against the thick skull,
a blow so fair and stark and strong that the stunned beast fell backward upon the ground, and
then, down, lightly as any monkey, dropped the cave man. The huge stone ax went crashing into
the brain of the quivering brute, and that was the end of the incident. Mother and child leaped
down together, and the man and woman went chattering toward their cave. This was not a particularly
eventful day with them; they were accustomed to such things.

They went strolling off through the beech glades, the strong, hairy, heavy-jawed man, the muscular
but more lightly built woman and the child, perched firmly and chattering blithely upon her
shoulder as they walked, or, rather, half trotted along the river side and toward the cave.
They were light of foot and light of thought, but there was ever that almost unconscious alertness
appertaining to their time. Their flexible ears twitched, and turned, now forward now backward,
to catch the slightest sound. Their nostrils were open for dangerous scents, or for the scent
of that which might give them food, either animal or vegetable, and as for the eyes, well,
they were the sharpest existent within the history of the human race. They were keen of vision
at long distance and close at hand, and ever were they in motion, swiftly turned sidewise this
way and that, peering far ahead or looking backward to note what enemies of the wood might
be upon the trail. So, swiftly along the glade and ever alert, went the father and mother of
Ab, carrying the strong child with them.

There came no new alarm, and soon the cave was reached, though on the way there was a momentary
deviation from the path, to gather up the nuts and berries the woman had found in the afternoon
while the babe was lying sleeping. The fruitage was held in a great leaf, a pliant thing pulled
together at the edges, tied stoutly with a strand of tough grass, and making a handy pouch
containing a quart or two of the food, which was the woman's contribution to the evening meal.
As for the father, he had more to offer, as was evident when the cave was reached.

The man and woman crept through the narrow entrance and stood erect in a recess in the rocks
twenty feet square, at least, and perhaps fifteen feet in height. Looking upward one could
see a gleam of light from the outer world. The orifice through which the light came was the
chimney, dug downward with much travail from the level of the land above. Directly underneath
the opening was the fireplace, for men had learned thoroughly the use of fire, and had even
some fancies as to getting rid of smoke. There were smoldering embers upon the hearth, embers
of the hardest of wood, the wood which would preserve a fire for the greatest length of time,
for the cave man had neither flint and steel nor matches, and when a fire expired it was a
matter of some difficulty to secure a flame again. On this occasion there was no trouble. The
embers were beaten up easily into glowing coals and twigs and dry dead limbs cast upon them
made soon a roaring flame. As the cave was lighted the proprietor pointed laughingly to the
abundance of meat he had secured. It was food of the finest sort and in such quantity that
even this stalwart being's strength must have been exceptionally tested in bringing the burden
to the cave. It was something in quality for an epicure of the day and there was enough of
it to make the cave man's family easy for a week, at least. It was a hind quarter of a wild horse.

CHAPTER III.

A FAMILY DINNER.

Despite the hyena and baby incident, the day had been a satisfactory one for this cave family.
Of course, had the woman failed to reach just when she did the hollow in which her babe was
left there would have come a tragedy in the extinction of a young and promising cave child,
and the two would have been mourning, as even wild beasts mourn for their lost young. But there
was little reversion to past possibilities in the minds of the cave people. The couple were
not worrying over what might have been. The mother had found food of one sort in abundance,
and the father's fortune had been royal. He had tossed a rock from a precipice a hundred feet
in height down into a passing herd of the little wild horses, and great luck had followed,
for one of them had been killed, and so this was a holiday in the cave. The man and wife were
at ease and had each an appetite.

The nuts gathered by the woman were tossed in a heap among the ashes and live coals were raked
upon them, and the popping which followed showed how well they were being roasted. A sturdy
twig, two yards in length and sharpened at the end, was utilized by the man in cooking the
strips of meat cut from the haunch of the wild horse and very savory were the odors that filled
the cave. There was the faint perfume of the crackling nuts and there was the fragrant beneficence
of the broiling meat. There are no definite records upon the subject; the chef of to-day can
give you no information on the point, but there is reason to believe that a steak from the
wild horse of the time was something admirable. There is a sort of maxim current in this age,
in civilized rural communities, to the effect that those quadrupeds are good to eat which "chew
the cud or part the hoof." The horse of to-day is a creature with but one toe to each leg--we
all know that--but the horse of the cave man's time had only lately parted with the split hoof,
and so was fairly edible, even according to the modern standard.

The father and mother of Ab were not more than two years past their honeymoon. They, in their
way, were glad that their union had been so blest and that a lusty man-child was rolling about
and crowing and cooing upon the earthen floor of the cave. They lived from hand to mouth, and
from day to day, and this day had been a good one. They were there together, man, woman and
child. They had warmth and food. The entrance to the cave was barred so that no monster of
the period might enter. They could eat and sleep with a certainty of the perfect digestion
which followed such a life as theirs and with a certainty of all peace for the moment. Even
the child mumbled heartily, though not yet very strongly, at the delicious meat of the little
horse, and, the meal ended, the two lay down upon a mass of leaves which made their bed, and
the child lay snuggled and warm within reach of them. The aristocracy of the time had gone
to sleep.

There was silence in the cave, but, outside, the world was not so still. The night was not
always one of silence in the cave man's time. The hours of darkness were those when the creature
which walked upon two legs was no longer gliding through the forest with ready club or spear,
and when those creatures which used four legs instead of two, especially the defenseless, felt
more at ease than in the daytime. The grass-eating animals emerged from the forest into the
plateaus and upon the low plains along the river side and the flesh-eaters began again their
hunting. It was a time of wild life, and of wild death, for out of the abundance much was taken;
there were nightly tragedies, and the beasts of prey were as glutted as the urus or the elk
which fed on the sweet grasses. It was but a matter of difference in diet and in the manner
of doing away with one life which must be sacrificed to support another. There was liveliness
at night with the queer thing, man, out of the way, and brutes and beasts of many sorts, taking
their chances together, were happier with him absent. They could not understand him, and liked
him not, though the great-clawed and sharp-toothed ones had a vast desire to eat him. He was
a disturbing element in the community of the plain and forest.

And, while all this play of life and death went on outside, the three people, the man, woman
and child, in the cave slept as soundly as sleep the drunken or the just. They were full-fed
and warm and safe. No beast of a size greater than that of a lank wolf or sinewy wildcat could
enter the cave through the narrow entrance between the heaped-up rocks, and of these, as of
any other dangerous beast, there was none which would face what barred even the narrow passage,
for it was fire. Just at the entrance the all-night fire of knots and hardest wood smoked,
flamed and smoldered and flickered, and then flamed again, and held the passageway securely.
No animal that ever lived, save man, has ever dared the touch of fire. It was the cave man's
guardian.

CHAPTER IV.

AB AND OAK.

Such were the father and mother of Ab, and such was the boy himself. His surroundings have
not been indicated with all the definiteness desirable, because of the lack of certain data,
but, in a general way, the degree of his birth, the manner of his rearing and the natural aspects
of his estate have been described. That the young man had a promising future could not admit
of doubt. He was the first-born of an important family of a great race and his inheritance
had no boundaries. Just where the possessions of the Ab family began or where they terminated
no bird nor beast nor human being could tell. The estates of the family extended from the Mediterranean
to the Arctic Ocean and there were no dividing lines. Of course, something depended upon the
existence or non-existence of a stronger cave family somewhere else, but that mattered not.
And the babe grew into a sturdy youth, just as grow the boys of today, and had his friendships
and adventures. He did not attend the public schools--the school system was what might reasonably
be termed inefficient in his time--nor did he attend a private school, for the private schools
were weak, as well, but he did attend the great school of Nature from the moment he opened
his eyes in the morning until he closed them at night. Of his schoolboy days and his friendships
and his various affairs, this is the immediate story.

The father and mother of Ab as has, it is hoped, been made apparent, were strong people, intelligent
up to the grade of the time and worthy of regard in many ways. The two could fairly hold their
own, not only against the wild beasts, but against any other cave pair, should the emergency
arise. They had names, of course. The name of Ab's father was One-Ear, the sequence of an incident
occurring when he was very young, an accidental and too intimate acquaintance with a species
of wildcat which infested the region and from which the babe had been rescued none too soon.
The name of Ab's mother was Red-Spot, and she had been so called because of a not unsightly
but conspicuous birthmark appearing on her left shoulder. As to ancestry, Ab's father could
distinctly remember his own grandfather as the old gentleman had appeared just previous to
his consumption by a monstrous bear, and Red-Spot had some vague remembrance of her own grandmother.

As for Ab's own name, it came from no personal mark or peculiarity or as the result of any
particular incident of his babyhood. It was merely a convenient adaptation by his parents of
a childish expression of his own, a labial attempt to say something. His mother had mimicked
his babyish prattlings, the father had laughed over the mimicry, and, almost unconsciously,
they referred to their baby afterward as "Ab," until it grew into a name which should be his
for life. There was no formal early naming of a child in those days; the name eventually made
itself, and that was all there was to it. There was, for instance, a child living not many
miles away, destined to be a future playmate and ally of Ab, who, though of nearly the same
age, had not yet been named at all. His title, when he finally attained it, was merely Oak.
This was not because he was straight as an oak, or because he had an acorn birthmark, but because
adjoining the cave where he was born stood a great oak with spreading limbs, from one of which
was dangled a rude cradle, into which the babe was tied, and where he would be safe from all
attacks during the absence of his parents on such occasions as they did not wish the burden
of carrying him about. "Rock-a-by-baby upon the tree-top" was often a reality in the time of
the cave men.

Ab was fortunate in being born at a reasonably comfortable stage of the world's history. He
had a decent prospect as to clothing and shelter, and there was abundance of food for those
brave enough or ingenious enough to win it. The climate was not enervating. There were cold
times for the people of the epoch and, in their seasons, harsh and chilling winds swept over
bare and chilling glaciers, though a semi-tropical landscape was all about. So suddenly had
come the change from frigid cold to moderate warmth, that the vast fields of ice once moving
southward were not thawed to their utmost depths even when rank vegetation and a teeming life
had sprung up in the now European area, and so it came that, in some places, cold, white monuments
and glittering plateaus still showed themselves amid the forest and fed the tumbling streams
which made the rivers rushing to the ocean. There were days of bitter cold in winter and sultry
heat in summer.

