But soon another alliance and other enmities were to be formed. The Empire fell; the Bourbons
returned to France; Louis XVIII. recognized the noblesse of the Imperial government, and the
constitution of society as it had been battled for by the Revolution. At the same time his
court was filled with all the great historic names of the country, who returned, no longer
avowedly the first in authority, and therefore prompt to condescend, but the first in presumption,
and therefore prompt to take offence. The new alliance that was formed was that of the plebeian
caste with the noblesse de l'Empire, against which it had been previously so incensed. Notwithstanding
all the efforts sincerely made by Louis XVIII. to establish a constitutional government and
to promote a genuine constitutional feeling throughout France, class-hatreds rose gradually
to so violent a height that the king's only occupation soon grew to be the balancing of expediencies.
He was forever obliged to reflect upon the choices he could make around him, since each choice
made from one party insured him a hundred enemies in the party opposed. This, which was the
political part of the drama,--that which regarded the scenes played upon the public stage,--had
its instantaneous reflex, as we have already said in the commencement of these pages, in the
salons, which were the green-rooms and coulisses. Urbanity, amenity of language, the bland
demeanor hitherto characterized as la grâce Française, all these were at an end. Society in
France, such as it had been once, the far-famed model for all Europe, had ceased to exist.
The ambition which had once been identified with the cares of office or the dangers of war
now found sufficient food in the bickerings of party-spirit, and revenged itself by salon jokes
and salon impertinence for the loss of a lead it either could not or would not take in Parliament.
The descendants of those very fathers and mothers who had, in many cases, suffered incarceration,
and death even, together, set to hating each other cordially, because these would not abdicate
what those would not condescend to compete for. The noblesse cried out, that the bourgeoisie
was usurping all its privileges; and the bourgeoisie retorted, that the time for privilege
was past. The two classes could no longer meet together in the world, but formed utterly different
sets and cliques; and it must be avowed that neither of the two gained in good-manners, or
what may be called drawing-room distinction.

From 1815 to 1830, the noblesse had officially the advantage. From 1830 to 1848, the bourgeoisie
ruled over the land. But now was to be remarked another social phenomenon, that complicated
salon life more than ever. The middle classes, we say, were in power; they were in all the
centres of political life,--in the Chambers, in the ministries, in the king's councils, in
diplomacy; and with them had risen to importance the Imperial aristocracy, whose representatives
were to be found in every department of the public service. All this while, the old families
of the ancien régime shut themselves up among themselves entirely, constituted what is now
termed the Faubourg St. Germain, which never was so exclusive or so powerful (socially speaking)
as under Louis Philippe, and a tacit combat between envy and disdain was carried on, such as
perhaps no modern civilization ever witnessed. The Faubourg St. Germain arrogated to itself
the privilege of exclusively representing la société Française, and it must be confessed that
the behavior of its adversaries went far to substantiate its claims.

Our purpose in these pages is not to touch upon anything connected with politics, or we could
show, that, whilst apparently severed from all activity upon the more conspicuous field of
the capital, the ancient French families were employed in reëstablishing their influence in
the rural provincial centres; the result of which was the extraordinary influx of Legitimist
members into the Chamber formed by the first Republican elections in 1848. But this is foreign
to our present aim. As to what regards French society, properly so called, it was, from 1804,
after the proclamation of the Empire, till 1848, after the fall of Louis Philippe, in gradual
but incessant course of sub-division into separate cliques, each more or less bitterly disposed
towards the others. From the moment when this began to be the case, the edifice of French society
could no longer be studied as a whole, and it only remained to examine its component parts
as evidences of the tendencies of various classes in the nation. In this assuredly not uninteresting
study, Mme. Ancelot's book is of much service; for a certain number of the different salons
she names are, as it were, types of the different stages civilization has attained to in the
city which chooses to style itself "the brain of Europe."

The description, given in the little book before us, of what in Paris constitutes a genuine
salon, is a tolerably correct one. "A salon," says Mme. Ancelot, "is not in the least like
one of those places in a populous town, where people gather together a crowd of individuals
unknown to each other, who never enter into communication, and who are where they are, momentarily,
either because they expect to dance, or to hear music, or to show off the magnificence of their
dress. This is not what can ever be called a salon. A salon is an intimate and periodical meeting
of persons who for several years have been in the habit of frequenting the same house, who
enjoy each other's society, and who have some reason, as they imagine, to be happy when they
are brought in contact. The persons who receive, form a link between the various persons they
invite, and this link binds the habitués more closely to one another, if, as is commonly the
case, it is a woman of superior mind who forms the point of union. A salon, to be homogeneous,
and to endure, requires that its habitués should have similar opinions and tastes, and, above
all, enough of the urbanity of bygone days to enable its frequenters to feel at home with every
one in it, without the necessity of a formal introduction. Formerly, this practice of speaking
to persons you had not been presented to was a proof of good-breeding; for it was well known
that in no house of any distinction would there be found a guest who was not worthy to be the
associate of whoever was noblest and best. These habits of social intercourse gave a value
to the intellectual and moral qualities of the individual, quite independent of his fortune
or his rank; and in these little republics the real sovereign was merit."

Madame Ancelot is right here, and there were in Paris several of these salons, which served
as the models for those of all the rest of Europe. Under the Restoration, two illustrious ladies
tried to recall to the generation that had sprung from the Empire or from emigration what the
famous salons of old had once been, and the Duchesse de Duras and the Marquise de Montcalm
(sister to the then minister, the Duc de Richelieu) drew around them all that was in any way
distinguished in France. But the many causes we have noted above made the enterprise a difficult
one, and the various divergences of society, politically speaking, rendered the task of the
mistress of a house one of surpassing arduousness. Mme. de Staël, who, by her very superiority
perhaps,--certainly by her vehemence,--was prevented from ever being a perfect example of what
was necessary in this respect, acquired the nickname of Présidente de Salons; and it would
appear, that, with her resolute air, her loud voice, and her violent opinions, she really did
seem like a kind of speaker of some House of Commons disguised as a woman. That the management
of a salon was no easy affair the following anecdote will prove. The Duchesse de Duras one
day asked M. de Talleyrand what he thought of the evening réunions at her house, and after
a few words of praise, he added: "But you are too vivacious as yet, too young. Ten years hence
you will know better how to manage it all." Mme. de Duras was then somewhere about fifty-four
or five! We perceive, therefore, that, according to M. de Talleyrand, the proper manner of
receiving a certain circle of habitués was likely to be the study of a whole life.

We select from Mme. Ancelot's book sketches of the following maitresses de maison, because
they seem to us the types of the periods of transformation to which they correspond in the
order of date:--Mme. Lebrun, Mme. Gérard, Mme. d'Abrantès, Mme. Récamier, Mme. Nodier. Mme.
Lebrun corresponds to the period when Pre-Revolutionary traditions were still in force, and
when the remembrance yet subsisted of a society that had been a real and not a fictive unity.
Mme. Gérard--or we should rather say her husband, for she occupied herself little with her
guests, whom the illustrious painter entertained--represents the period of the Empire, prolonging
itself into the Restoration, and seeking by the immunities of talent and intelligence to bring
the two régimes to meet upon what might be termed neutral ground. Mme. d'Abrantès is the type
of that last remnant of the half-heroic, half-sentimental epoch which tried to endure even
after the first days of 1830, and of which certain verses of Delphine Gay, certain impossible
portraits of invincible colonels, certain parts played by the celebrated Elleviou, and the
Troubadourish "Partant pour la Syrie" of Queen Hortense, are emblematical. Mme. Récamier, although
in date all but the contemporary of Mme. Lebrun, is, in her position of mistress of a salon,
essentially the impersonation of a foible peculiar to the present day; she typifies the class
of women who, in Paris, are absolutely absorbed by the thought of their salons, for whom to
receive is to live, and who are ready to expire at the notion of any celebrity not being a
frequenter of their tea-table. Mme. Nodier's--and here, as with Mme. Gérard, we must substitute
the husband for the wife, and say Charles Nodier's--salon was the menagerie whither thronged
all the strange beings who, after the Revolution of July, fancied they had some special and
extraordinary "call" in the world of Art. Nodier's receptions at the Arsenal represent the
literary and artistic movement of 1830.

To begin, then, with Mme. Lebrun. This lady was precisely one of those individualities who,
since the days of Louis XIV., had found it easy to take their place in French society, who,
under the ancien régime, were the equals of the whole world, and who, since "Equality" has
been so formally decreed by the laws of the land, would have found it impossible, under the
Citizen King, Louis Philippe, or under the so-called "Democratic Empire" of Louis Napoleon,
to surround themselves with any society save that of a perfectly inferior description.

Mme. Lebrun was the daughter of a very second-rate painter of the name of Vigée, the sister
of a poet of some talent of the same name, and was married young to a picture-dealer of large
fortune and most expensive and dissipated, not to say dissolute habits, M. Lebrun. She was
young,--and, like Mme. Récamier and a few others, remained youthful to a very late term of
her existence,--remarkably beautiful, full of talent, grace, and esprit, and possessed of the
magnificent acquirements as a portrait-painter that have made her productions to this day valuable
throughout the galleries of Europe. She was very soon so brilliantly in fashion, that there
was not a grand seigneur of the court, a grande dame of the queen's intimacy, a rich fermier-général,
or a famous writer, artist, or savant, who did not petition to be admitted to her soirées;
and in her small apartment, in the Rue de Cléry, were held probably the last of those intimate
and charmingly unceremonious réunions which so especially characterized the manners of the
high society of France when all question of etiquette was set aside. The witty Prince de Ligne,
the handsome Comte de Vaudreuil, the clever M. de Boufflers, and his step-son, M. de Sabran,
with such men as Diderot, d'Alembert, Marmontel, and Laharpe, were the original habitués of
Mme. Lebrun's drawing-room. At the same time used to visit her the bitter, bilious, discontented
David, the painter, who, though very young, was annoyed at a woman having such incontestable
proficiency in his own art, and whose democratic ideas were hurt at her receiving such a number
of what he styled "great people." Madame Lebrun, one day,--little dreaming that she was addressing
a future coupe-tête of the most violent species, (perhaps the only genuine admirer of Marat,)--said,
smilingly, to the future painter of Les Sabines, "David, you are wretched because you are neither
Duke nor Marquis. I, to whom all such titles are absolutely indifferent, I receive with sincere
pleasure all who make themselves agreeable." The apostrophe apparently hit home, for David
never returned to Mme. Lebrun's house, and was no well-wisher of hers in later times. But on
this occasion she had not only told the truth to an individual, she had touched upon the secret
sore of the nation and the time; and vast classes were already brooding in silence over the
absurd, vain, and empty regret at being "neither Duke nor Marquis." The Revolution was at hand,
and the days rapidly approaching when all such pleasant assemblies as those held by Mme. Lebrun
would become forever impossible. At some of these, the crowd of intimates, and of persons all
acquainted with each other, was so great, that the highest dignitaries of the realm had to
content themselves with sitting down upon the floor; and on one occasion, the Maréchal de Noailles,
who was of exceedingly large build, had to request the assistance of several of his neighbors
before he could be brought from his squatting attitude to his feet again.

Mme. Lebrun emigrated, like the majority of her associates,--going to Russia, to Italy, to
Germany, to England, and everywhere increasing the number of her friends, besides preserving
all those of former times, whom she sedulously sought out in their voluntary exile, and to
whom, in many cases, she even proved an invaluable friend. In the commencement of the Restoration,
Mme. Lebrun returned to France, and established herself definitively at Paris, and at Louveciennes
near Marly, where she had a delightful summer residence. Here, as in her salons in the metropolis,
she tried to bring back the tone of French society to what it had been before the Revolution,
and to show the younger generations what had been the gayety, the grace, the affability, the
exquisite good-breeding of those who had preceded them. The men and women of her own standing
seconded her, but the younger ones were not to be drawn into high-heartedness; and an observer
might have had before him the somewhat strange spectacle of old age gay, gentle, unobservant
of any stiff formality, and of youth preoccupied and grave, and, instead of being refined in
manners, pedantic. "The younger frequenters of Mme. Lebrun's salon," says Mme. Ancelot, "were
strangers to the world into which they found themselves raised; those who surrounded them were
of an anterior civilization; they could not grow to be identified with a past which was unknown
to them, or known only through recitals that disfigured it.... Amidst the remnants of a society
that had been historical, there was, as it were, the breath of a spirit born of our days; new
ideas, new opinions, new hopes, nay, even new recollections, were evident all around, and served
to render social unity impossible; but, above all, what failed in this one particular centre
was youth,--there were few or no young people." This was perfectly true; and Mme. Lebrun's
salon is interesting only from the fact of its being the last, perhaps, in which French people
of our day can have acquired a complete notion of what the Pre-Revolutionary salons of France were.

The evening réunions at the house of Gérard, the celebrated painter, were among the most famous
features of the society of the Restoration. The gatherings at Mmes. de Duras's and de Montcalm's
splendid hotels were all but exclusively political and diplomatic; whereas at Gérard's there
was a mixture of these with the purely mundane and artistic elements, and, above all, there
was a portion of Imperialist fame blended with all the rest, that was hard to be found anywhere
else. Gérard, too, had painted the portraits of so many crowned heads, and been so much admitted
into the intimacy of his royal models, that, whenever a foreigner of any note visited Paris,
he almost immediately asked to be put in a way to be invited to the celebrated artist's Wednesday
receptions. This was, to a certain degree, an innovation in regular French society; the French
being most truly, as has been said, the "Chinese of Europe," and liking nothing less than the
intermixture with themselves of anything foreign. But Gérard was one of those essentially superior
men who are able to influence those around them, and bring them to much whereto no one else
could have persuaded them. Gérard, like many celebrated persons, was infinitely superior to
what he did. As far as what he did was concerned, Gérard, though a painter of great merit,
was far inferior to two or three of whom France has since been justly proud; but in regard
to what he was, Gérard was a man of genius, who had in many ways few superiors. Few men, even
in France, have so highly deserved the reputation of un homme d'esprit. He was as spirituel
as Talleyrand himself, and almost as clear-sighted and profound. Add to this that nothing could
surpass the impression made by Gérard at first sight. He was strikingly like the first Napoleon,
but handsomer; with the same purity of outline, the same dazzlingly lustrous eyes, full of
penetration and thought, but with a certain sympathetic charm about his whole person that the
glorious conqueror of Marengo and Dictator of Gaul never possessed.

Gérard was not entirely French; born in Rome in 1770, his father only was a native of France,
his mother was an Italian; and from her he inherited a certain combination of qualities and
peculiarities that at once distinguished him from the majority of his countrymen. Full of poetic
fire and inspiration, there was in Gérard at the same time a strong critical propensity, that
showed itself in his caustic wit and, sometimes, not unmalicious remarks. There was also a
perpetual struggle in his character between reflection and the first impulse, and sometimes
the étourderie of the French nature was suddenly checked by the caution of the Italian; but,
take him as he was, he was a man in a thousand, and those who were in the habit of constantly
frequenting his house affirm loudly and with the deepest regret, that they shall never "look
upon his like again."

Gérard had built for himself a house in the Rue des Augustins, near the ancient church of St.
Germain des Près; and there, every Wednesday evening, summer and winter, he received whatever
was in any way illustrious in France, or whatever the other capitals of Europe sent to Paris,
en passant. "Four small rooms," says Mme. Ancelot, "and a very small antechamber, composed
the whole apartment. At twelve o'clock tea was served, with eternally the same cakes, over
which a pupil of Gérard's, Mlle. Godefroy, presided. Gérard himself talked; his wife remained
nailed to a whist-table, attending to nothing and to nobody. Evening once closed in, cards
were the only occupation of Mme. Gérard."

From Mme. de Staël down to Mlle. Mars, from Talleyrand and Pozzo di Borgo down to M. Thiers,
there were no celebrities, male or female, that, during thirty years, (from 1805 to 1835,)
did not flock to Gérard's house, and all, how different soever might be their character or
position, agreed in the same opinion of their host; and those who survive say of him to this
day,--"Nothing in his salons announced that you were received by a great Artist, but before
half an hour had elapsed you felt you were the guest of a distinguished Man; you had seen by
a glance at Gérard's whole person and air that he was something apart from others,--that the
sacred fire burned there!"

The regret felt for Gérard's loss by all who ever knew him is not to be told, and speaks as
highly for those who cherished as for him who inspired it. His, again, was one of the salons
(impossible now in France) where genius and social superiority, whether of birth or position,
met together on equal terms. Without having, perhaps, as large a proportion of the old noblesse
de cour at his house as had Mme. Lebrun, Gérard received full as many of those eminent personages
whose political occupations would have seemed to estrange them from the world of mixed society
and the Arts. This is a nuance to be observed. Under the Empire, hard and despotic as was the
rule of Bonaparte, and anxious even as he was to draw round him all the aristocratic names
that would consent to serve his government, there was--owing to the mere force of events and
the elective origin of the throne--a strong and necessary democratic feeling, that assigned
importance to each man according to his works. Besides this, let it be well observed, the first
Empire had a strong tendency to protect and exalt the Arts, from its own very ardent desire
to be made glorious in the eyes of posterity. Napoleon I. was, in his way, a consummate artist,
a prodigiously intelligent metteur en scène of his own exploits, and he valued full as much
the man who delineated or sang his deeds, as the minister who helped him to legislate, or the
diplomatist who drew up protocols and treaties. The Emperor was a lover of noise and show,
and his time was a showy and a noisy one. Bonaparte had, in this respect, little enough of
the genuine Tyrant nature. Unlike his nephew, he loved neither silence nor darkness; he loved
the reflection of his form in the broad noon of publicity, and the echo of his tread upon the
sounding soil of popular renown. Could he have been sure that all free men would have united
their voices in chanting his exploits, he would have made the citizens of France the freest
in the whole world. Compression with him was either a mere preventive against or vengeance
for detraction.

Now this publicity-loving nature was, we repeat, as much served by Art and artists as by politicians;
nay, perhaps more; and for this reason artists stood high during the period of the Empire.
Talma held a social rank that under no other circumstances could have been his, and a painter
like Gérard could welcome to his house statesmen such as Talleyrand or Daru, or marshals of
France, and princes even. We shall show, by-and-by, how this grew to be impossible later. At
present we will recur to Mme. Ancelot for a really very true description of two persons who
were among the habitués of the closing years of Gérard's weekly receptions, and one of whom
was destined to universal celebrity: we allude to Mme. Gay, and her daughter, Delphine,--later,
Mme. Girardin. Of these two, the mother, famous as Sophie Gay, was as thorough a remnant of
the exaggerations and bad taste of the Empire as were the straight, stiff, mock-classical articles
of furniture of the Imperialist hotels, or the or-moulu clocks so ridiculed by Balzac, on which
turbaned Mamelukes mourned their expiring steeds. All the false-heroics of the literature of
the Empire found their representative (their last one, perhaps) in Mme. Sophie Gay, and it
has not been sufficiently remarked that she even transmitted a shade of all this to her daughter,
in other respects one of the most sagacious spirits and one of the most essentially unconventional
of our own day. A certain something that was not in harmony with the tone of contemporary writers
here and there surprised you in Delphine de Girardin's productions, and, as Jules Janin once
said, "One would think the variegated plumes of Murat's fantastic hat[2] were sweeping through
her brains!" This was her mother's doing. Delphine, who had never lived during one hour of
the glory of the Empire, had, through the medium of her mother, acquired a slight tinge of
its boursouflure; and had it not been for her own personal good taste, she would have been
misled precisely by her strong lyrical aptitudes. Madame Gay found in Gérard's salon all the
people she had best known in her youth, and she was delighted to have her early years recalled
to her. Mme. Ancelot, who, like many of her country women, felt a marked antipathy for Madame
Gay, has given a very true portrait of both mother and daughter.

"Many years after," she writes, "when these ladies were (through M. de Girardin) at the head
of one of the chief organs of the Paris press, they were much flattered and courted; at the
period I speak of" (about 1817-1825) "their position was far from brilliant, and Mme. Gay was
far from popular. Every word that fell from her mouth, uttered in a sharp tone, and full of
bitterness and envy, went to speak ill of others and prodigiously well of herself. She had
a mania for titles and tuft-hunting, and could speak of no one under a marquis, a count, or
a baron. Her daughter's beauty and talents caused her afterwards to be more generally admitted
into society; but at this period she was avoided by most people."

Her daughter's beauty was certainly marvellous, and when, under the reign of Louis Philippe,
American society had in Paris more than one brilliant representative and more than one splendid
centre of hospitality, where all that was illustrious in the society of France perpetually
flocked, we make no doubt many of our countrymen noticed, whether at theatre or concert or
ball, the really queenlike air of Mme. de Girardin, and the exquisitely classic profile, which,
enframed, as it were, by the capricious spirals of the lightest, fairest flaxen hair, resembled
the outline of some antique statue of a Muse.

Delphine Gay and her mother were more the ornaments of the salon of the Duchesse d'Abrantès,
perhaps, than of that of Gérard; and as the former continued open long after the latter was
closed by death, not only the young girl, whose verses were so immensely in fashion during
the Restoration, was one of the constant guests of Junot's widow, but she continued to be so
as the wife of Émile de Girardin, the intelligent and enterprising founder of the newspaper
"La Presse."

The salon of the Duchesse d'Abrantès was one of the first of a species which has since then
found imitators by scores and hundreds throughout France. It was the salon of a person not
in herself sufficiently superior or even celebrated to attract the genuine superiorities of
the country without the accessory attractions of luxury, and not sufficiently wealthy to draw
around her by her splendid style of receiving, and to disdain the bait held out to those she
invited by the presence of great "lions." Gérard gave to his guests, at twelve o'clock at night,
a cup of tea and "eternally the same cakes" all the year round; but Gérard was the type of
the great honors rendered, as we have observed, to Art under the Empire, and to his house men
went as equals, whose daily occupations made them the associates of kings. This was not the
case with the Duchesse d'Abrantès. She had notoriety, not fame. Her "Mémoires" had been read
all through Europe, but it is to be questioned whether anything beyond curiosity was satisfied
by the book, and it certainly brought to its author little or none of that which in France
stands in lieu even of fortune, but which is not easy to obtain, namely,--consideration.

The Duchesse d'Abrantès was rather popular than otherwise; she was even beloved by a certain
number of persons; but she never was what is termed considérée,--and this gave to her salon
a different aspect from that of the others we have spoken of. A dozen names could be mentioned,
whose wearers, without any means of "entertaining" their friends, or giving them more than
a glass of eau sucrée, were yet surrounded by everything highest and best in the land, simply
because they were gens considérables, as the phrase went; but Mme. d'Abrantès, who more or
less received all that mixed population known by the name of tout Paris, never was, we repeat,
considérée.

The way in which Mme. Ancelot introduces her "friend," the poor Duchesse d'Abrantès, on the
scene, is exceedingly amusing and natural; and we have here at once the opportunity of applying
the remark we made in commencing these pages, upon Mme. Ancelot's truthfulness. She is the
habituée of the house of Mme. d'Abrantès; she professes herself attached to the Duchess; yet
she does not scruple to tell everything as it really is, nor, out of any of the usual little
weaknesses of friendship, does she omit any one single detail that proves the strange and indeed
somewhat "Bohemian" manner of life of her patroness. We, the readers of her book, are obviously
obliged to her for her indiscretions; with those who object to them from other motives we have
nothing to do.

Here, then, is the fashion in which we are introduced to Mme. la Duchesse d'Abrantès, widow
of Marshal Junot, and a born descendant of the Comneni, Emperors of Byzantium.

Mme. Ancelot is sitting quietly by her fireside, one evening in October, (some short time after
the establishment of the monarchy of July,) waiting to hear the result of a representation
at the Théâtre Français, where a piece of her own is for the first time being performed. All
at once, she hears several carriages stop at her door, a number of persons rush up the stairs,
and she finds herself in the arms of the Duchesse d'Abrantès, who was resolved, as she says,
to be the first to congratulate her on her success. The hour is a late one; supper is served,
and conversation is prolonged into the "small hours." All at once Mme. d'Abrantès exclaims,
with an explosion of delight,--"Ah! what a charming time is the night! one is so deliciously
off for talking! so safe! so secure! safe from bores and from duns!" (on ne craint ni les ennuyeux
ni les créanciers.')

Madame Ancelot affirms that this speech made a tremendous effect, and that her guests looked
at each other in astonishment. If this really was the case, we can only observe that it speaks
well for the Parisians of the epoch at which it occurred; for, assuredly, at the present day,
no announcement of the kind would astonish or scandalize any one. People in "good society,"
nowadays, in France, have got into a habit of living from hand to mouth, and of living by expedients,
simply because they have not the strength of mind to live out of society, and because the life
of "the world" forces them to expenses utterly beyond what they have any means of providing
for. However, we are inclined to believe that some five-and-twenty years ago this was in no
degree a general case, and that Mme. d'Abrantès might perfectly well have been the first maitresse
de maison to whom it happened.

"Alas!" sighs Mme. Ancelot, commenting upon her excellent friend's strange confidence,--"it
was the secret of her whole life that she thus revealed to us in a moment of abandon,--the
secret of an existence that tried still to reflect the splendors of the Imperial epoch, and
that was at the same time perplexed and tormented by all the thousand small miseries of pecuniary
embarrassment. There were the two extremes of a life that to the end excited my surprise. Grandeur!
want!--between those two opposites oscillated every day of the last years of the Duchesse d'Abrantès;
the exterior and visible portion of that life arranged itself well or ill, as it best could,
in the middle,--now apparently colored by splendor, and now degraded by distress; but at bottom
the existence was unvaryingly what I state."

Madame d'Abrantès, at the period of her greatest notoriety, occupied the ground-floor of a
hotel in the Rue Rochechouart, with a garden, where dancing was often introduced upon the lawn.
Some remnants of the glories of Imperialism were collected there, but the principal habitués
were men of letters, artists, and young men who danced well! (les jeunes beaux qui dansaient
bien!) That one phrase characterizes at once the ex-belle of the Empire, the contemporary of
the sentimental Hortense de Beauharnais, and of the more than légère Pauline Borghése.

To the "new society of July" Mme. d'Abrantès was an object of great curiosity. "I dote on seeing
that woman!" said Balzac, one evening, to Mme. Ancelot. "Only fancy! she saw Napoleon Bonaparte
as a mere boy,--knew him well,--knew him as a young man, unknown,--saw him occupied, like anybody
else, with the ordinary occurrences of every-day life; then she saw him grow, and grow, and
rise, and throw the shadow of his name over the world. She seems to me somewhat like a canonized
creature who should all at once come and recount to me the glories of paradise."

Balzac, it must be premised, was bitten just at this period by the Napoleon mania, and this
transformed his inquisitive attachment for Mme. d'Abrantès into a kind of passion. It was at
this period that he chose to set up in his habitation in the Rue Cassini a sort of altar, on
which he placed a small statue of the Emperor, with these words engraved upon the pedestal:--

  "Ce qu'il avait commencé par l'épée,
  Je l'achèverai par la plume!"

What particular part of the Imperial work this was that Balzac was to "complete by the pen"
was never rightly discovered,--but for a time he had a sun-stroke for Napoleon, and his attachment
for Mme. d'Abrantès partook of this influence.

One anecdote told by Mme. Ancelot proves to what a degree the union of "grandeur" and "want"
she has alluded to went. "Mme. d'Abrantès," says her biographer of the moment, "was always
absorbed by the present impression, whatever that might happen to be; she passed from joy to
despair like a child, and I never knew any house that was either so melancholy or so gay."
One evening, however, it would seem that the Hôtel d'Abrantès was gayer than usual. Laughter
rang loud through the rooms, the company was numerous, and the mistress of the house in unparalleled
high spirits. If the tide of conversation seemed to slacken, quickly Madame la Duchesse had
some inimitable story of the ridicules of the ladies of the Imperial court, and the whole circle
was soon convulsed at her stories, and at her way of telling them. The tea-table was forgotten.
Generally, tea at her house was taken at eleven o'clock; but on this occasion, midnight was
long past before it was announced, and before her guests assembled round the table. If our
readers are curious to know why, here was the reason: All that remained of the plate had that
very morning been put in pawn, and when tea should have been served it was found that tea-spoons
were wanting! Whilst these were being sent for to the house of a friend who lent them, Madame
la Duchesse took charge of her guests, and drowned their impatience in their hilarity.

It must be allowed that this lady was worthy to be the mother of the young man who, one day,
pointing to a sheet of stamped paper, on which a bill of exchange might be drawn, said: "You
see that; it is worth five sous now; but if I sign my name to it, it will be worth nothing!"
This was a speech made by Junot's eldest son, known in Paris as the Duc d'Abrantès, and as
the intimate friend of Victor Hugo, from whom at one time he was almost inseparable.

The eccentric personage we have just spoken of--the Duchesse d'Abrantès--died in the year 1838,
in a garret, upon a truckle-bed, provided for her by the charity of a friend. The royal family
paid the expenses of her funeral, and Chateaubriand, accompanied by nearly every celebrity
of the literary world, followed on foot behind her coffin, from the church to the burying-ground.

Madame d'Abrantès may be considered as the inventor, in France, of what has since become so
widely spread under the name of les salons picaresques, and of what, at the present day, is
famous under the appellation of the demi-monde. Her example has been followed by numberless
imitators, and now, instead of presuming (as was the habit formerly) that those only receive
who are rich enough to do so, it is constantly inquired, when any one in Paris opens his or
her house, whether he or she is ruined, and whether the soirées given are meant merely to throw
dust into people's eyes. The history of the tea-spoons--so singular at the moment of its occurrence--has
since been parodied a hundred times over, and sometimes by mistresses of houses whose fortune
was supposed to put them far above all such expedients. Madame d'Abrantès, we again say, was
the founder of a genre in Paris society, and as such is well worth studying. The genre is by
no means the most honorable, but it is one too frequently found now in the social centres of
the French capital for the essayist on Paris salons to pass it over unnoticed.

The salon of Mme. Récamier is one of a totally different order, and the world-wide renown of
which may make it interesting to the reader of whatever country. As far as age was concerned,
Mme. Récamier was the contemporary of Mme. d'Abrantès, of Gérard, nay, almost of Mme. Lebrun;
for the renown of her beauty dates from the time of the French Revolution, and her early friendships
associate her with persons who even had time to die out under the first Empire; but the salon
of Madame Récamier was among the exclusively modern ones, and enjoyed all its lustre and its
influence only after 1830. The cause of this is obvious: the circumstance that attracted society
to Mme. Récamier's house was no other than the certainty of finding there M. de Chateaubriand.
He was the divinity of the temple, and the votaries flocked around his shrine. Before 1830
the temple had been elsewhere, and, until her death, Mme. la Duchesse de Duras was the high-priestess
of the sanctuary, where a few privileged mortals only were admitted to bow down before the
idol. It is inconceivable how easy a certain degree of renown finds it in Paris to establish
one of these undisputed sovereignties, before which the most important, highest, most considerable
individualities abdicate their own merit, and prostrate themselves in the dust. M. de Chateaubriand
in no way justified the kind of worship that was paid him, nor did he even obtain it so long
as he was in a way actively to justify it. It was when he grew old and produced nothing, and
was hourly more and more rusted over by selfishness, churlishness, and an exorbitant adoration
of his own genius, that the society of his country fell down upon its knees before him, and
was ready to make any sacrifice to insure to itself the honor of one of his smiles or one of
his looks. In this disposition, Madame Récamier speedily obtained a leading influence over
Paris society, and when it was notorious that from four to six every day the "Divinity" would
be visible in her salons, her salons became the place of pilgrimage for all Paris. As with
those of Mme. d'Abrantès, there was a certain mixture amongst the guests, because, without
that, the notoriety, which neither Chateaubriand nor Mme. Récamier disliked, would have been
less easily secured; but the tone of the réunions was vastly different, and at the celebrated
receptions of the Abbaye aux Bois (where Mme. Récamier spent her last quarter of a century)
the somewhat austere deportment of the siècle de Louis XIV. was in vogue. All the amusements
were in their nature grave. Mlle. Rachel recited a scene from "Polyeucte" for the author of
"Les Martyrs," and for archbishops and cardinals; the Duc de Noailles read a chapter from his
history of Mme. de Maintenon; some performance of strictly classical music was to be heard;
or, upon state occasions, Chateaubriand himself vouchsafed to impart to a chosen few a few
pages of the "Mémoires d'Outre-Tombe."

In her youth Mme. Récamier had been reputed beautiful, and her sole occupation then was to
do the honors of her beauty. She did not dream of ever being anything else; and as she remained
young marvellously long,--as her beauty, or the charm, whatever it was, that distinguished
her, endured until a very late epoch of her life,--she was far advanced in years before the
idea of becoming famous through any other medium save that of her exterior advantages ever
struck her. Madame Récamier had no intellectual superiority, but, paraphrasing in action Molière's
witty sentence, that "silence, well employed, may go far to establish a man's capacity," she
resolved to employ well the talent she possessed of making other people believe themselves
clever. Mme. Ancelot, whose "good friend" she is supposed to have been, and who treats her
with the same sincerity she applies to Mme. d'Abrantès, has a very ingenious and, we have reason
to fancy, a very true parallel, for Mme. Récamier. She compares her to the mendicant described
by Sterne, (or Swift,) who always obtained alms even from those who never gave to any other,
and whose secret lay in the adroit flatteries with which he seasoned all his beggings. The
best passages in Mme. Ancelot's whole Volume are those where she paints Mme. Récamier, and
we will therefore quote them.

"The Recluse of the Abbaye aux Bois," she says, "had either read the story of the beggar, or
her instinct had persuaded her that vanity and pride are the surest vulnerable points by which
to attack and subject the human heart. From the first to the last of all the orators, writers,
artists, or celebrities of no matter what species, that were invited to Mme. Récamier's house,
all heard from her lips the same admiring phrases, the first time they were presented to her.
With a trembling voice she used to say: 'The emotion I feel in the presence of a superior being
does not permit me to express, as I should wish to do, all my admiration, all my sympathy;--but
you can divine,--you can understand;--my emotion tells the rest!' This eulogistic sentence,
a well-studied hesitation, words interrupted, and looks of the most perfect enthusiasm, produced
in the person thus received a far more genuine emotion than that with which he was met. It
was no other than the artifice of wholesale, universal flattery,--always and invariably the
same,--with which Mme. Récamier achieved her greatest conquests, and continued to draw around
her almost all the eminent men of our epoch. All this was murmured in soft, low tones, so that
he only to whom she spoke tasted the honey poured into his ear. Her grace of manner all the
while was infinite; for though she had no talent for conversation, she had, in the highest
degree, the ability which enables one to succeed in certain little combinations, and when she
had determined that such or such a great man should become her habitué, the web she spun round
him on all sides was composed of threads so imperceptibly fine and so innumerable, that those
who escaped were few, and gifted with marvellous address."

Mme. Ancelot confesses to having "studied narrowly" all Mme. Récamier's manoeuvres, and to
having watched all the thousand little traps she laid for social "lions"; but we are rather
astonished herein at Mme. Ancelot's astonishment, for, with more or less talent and grace,
these are the devices resorted to in Paris by a whole class of maitresses de maison, of whom
Mme. Récamier is simply the most perfect type.

But the most amusing part of all, and one that will be above all highly relished by any one
who has ever seen the same game carried on, is the account of Mme. Récamier's campaign against
M. Guizot, which signally failed, all her small webs having been coldly brushed away by the
intensely vainglorious individual who knew he should not be placed above Chateaubriand, and
who would for no consideration under heaven have been placed beneath him. The spectacle of
this small and delicate vanity doing battle against this vanity so infinitely hard and robust
is exquisitely diverting. Mme. Récamier put herself so prodigiously out of her way; she who
was indolent became active; she who was utterly insensible to children became maternal; she
who was of delicate health underwent what only a vigorous constitution would undertake. But
all in vain; she either did not or would not see that M. Guizot would not be second where M.
de Chateaubriand was first. Besides, she split against another rock, that she had either chosen
to overlook, or the importance of which she had undervalued. If Mme. Récamier had for the idol
of her shrine at the Abbaye aux Bois M. de Chateaubriand, M. Guizot had also his Madame Récamier,
the "Egeria" of the Hôtel Talleyrand,--the Princess Lieven. The latter would have resisted
to the death any attempt to carry off "her Minister" from the salons where his presence was
the "attraction" reckoned upon daily, nay, almost hourly; and against such a rival as the venerable
Princess Lieven, Mme. Récamier, spite of all her arts and wiles, had no possible chance. However,
she left nothing untried, and when M. Guizot took a villa at Auteuil, whither to repair of
an evening and breathe the freshness of the half-country air after the stormy debates of the
Chambers, she also established herself close by, and opened her attack on the enemy's outposts
by a request to be allowed to walk in the Minister's grounds, her own garden being ridiculously
small! This was followed by no end of attentions directed towards Mme. de Meulan, M. Guizot's
sister-in-law, who saw through the whole, and laughed over it with her friends; no end of little
dancing matinées were got up for the Minister's young daughters, and no end even of sweet biscuits
were perpetually provided for a certain lapdog belonging to the family! All in vain! We may
judge, too, what transports of enthusiasm were enacted when the Minister himself was by chance
(!) encountered in the alleys of the park, and with what outpourings of admiration he was greeted,
by the very person who, of all others, was so anxious to become one of his votaries. But, as
we again repeat, it was of no use. M. Guizot never consented to be one of the habitués of the
salon of the Abbaye aux Bois. It should be remarked, also, that M. Guizot cared little for
anything out of the immediate sphere of politics, and of the politics of the moment; he took
small interest in what went on in Art, and none whatever in what went on in the so-called "world";
so that where a salon was not predominantly political, there was small chance of presenting
Louis Philippe's Prime-Minister with any real attraction. For this reason he was now and then
to be met at the house of Mme. de Châtenay, often at that of Mme. de Boigne, but never in any
of the receptions of the ordinary run of men and women of the world. His own salon, we again
say,--the salon where he was what Chateaubriand was at the Abbaye aux Bois,--was the salon
of the Princess Lieven; and to have ever thought she could induce M. Guizot to be in the slightest
degree faithless to this habit argues, on the part of Mme. Récamier, either a vanity more egregious
than we had even supposed, or an ignorance of what she had to combat that seems impossible.
To have imagined for a moment that she could induce M. Guizot to frequent her réunions shows
that she appreciated neither Mme. de Lieven, nor M. Guizot, nor, we may say, herself, in the
light of the high-priestess of Chateaubriand's temple.

However, what Mme. Récamier went through with regard to the arrogant Président du Conseil of
the Orléans dynasty, more than one of her imitators are at this hour enduring for some "lion"
infinitely illustrious. This kind of hunt after celebrated persons is a feature of French civilization,
and a feature peculiarly characteristic of the French women who take a pride in their receptions.
A genuine maitresse de maison in Paris has no affections, no ties, save those of her salon.
She is wholly absorbed in thinking how she shall render this more attractive than the salon
of some other lady, who is her intimate friend, but whose sudden disappearance from the social
scene, by any catastrophe, death even, would not leave her inconsolable. She has neither husband,
children, relatives, nor friends (in the genuine acceptation of the word);--she has, above
all, before all, always and invariably, her salon. This race of women, who date undoubtedly
from the famous Marquise de Rambouillet in the time of the Fronde, are now dying out, and are
infinitely less numerous than they were even twenty years ago in Paris; but a few of them still
exist, and in these few the ardor we allude to, and which would lead them, following in Mme.
Récamier's track, to embark for the North Cape in search of some great celebrity, is in no
degree abated. Madame Récamier is curious as the arch-type of this race, so purely, thoroughly,
exclusively Parisian.

Perhaps to a foreigner, however, no salon was more amusing than that of Charles Nodier; but
this was of an utterly different description, and all but strictly confined to the world of
Literature and Art. Nodier himself occupied a prominent place in the literature that was so
much talked of during the last years of the Restoration and the first years of the Monarchy
of July, and his house was the rendezvous for all the combatants of both sides, who at that
period were engaged in the famous Classico-Romantic struggle. Nodier was the Head Librarian
of the Arsenal, and it was in the salons of this historic palace that he held his weekly gatherings.
He himself was scarcely to be reputed exclusively of either party; he enjoyed the favors of
the Monarchy, and the sympathies of the Opposition; the "Classics" elected him a member of
the Académie Française, and the "Romantics" were perpetually in his intimacy. The fact was,
that Nodier at heart believed in neither Classics nor Romantics, laughed at both in his sleeve,
and only cared to procure to himself the most agreeable house, the greatest number of comforts,
and the largest sums of money possible.

"By degrees," says Mme. Ancelot, "as Nodier cared less for other people, he praised them more,
probably in order to compensate them in words for the less he gave them in affection. Besides
this, he was resolved not to be disturbed in his own vanities, and for this he knew there was
one only way, which was to foster the vanities of everybody else. Never did eulogium take such
varied forms to laud and exalt the most mediocre things. Nowhere were so many geniuses whom
the public never guessed at raised to the rank of divinities as in the salons of Charles Nodier."

The description contained in the little volume before us, the manner in which every petty scribbler
of fiftieth-rate talent was transformed into a giant in the society of Nodier, is extremely
curious and amusing, and the more so that it is strictly true, and tallies perfectly with the
recollections of the individuals who, at the period mentioned, were admitted to the réunions
of the Arsenal.

Every form of praise having been expended upon persons of infinitely small merit, what was
to be done when those of real superiority entered upon the scene? It was impossible to apply
to them the forms of laudation adapted to their inferiors. Well, then, a species of slang was
invented, by which it was thought practicable to make the genuine great men conceive they had
passed into the condition of demigods. A language was devised that was to express the fervor
of the adorers who were suddenly allowed to penetrate into Olympus, and the strange, misapplied
terms whereof seemed to the uninitiated the language of insanity. For instance, if, after a
dozen little unshaved, unkempt poetasters had been called "sublime," Victor Hugo vouchsafed
to recite one of his really best Odes, what was the eulogistic form to be adopted? Mme. Ancelot
will tell us.

"A pause would ensue, and at the end of a silence of some minutes, when the echo of Hugo's
sonorous voice had subsided, one after another of the elect would rise, go up to the poet,
take his hand with solemn emotion, and raise to the ceiling eyes full of mute enthusiasm. The
crowd of bystanders would listen all agape. Then, to the surprise, almost to the consternation,
of the uninitiated, one word only would be spoken,--loudly, distinctly, and with strong, deep
emphasis spoken; that word would be:

  "Cathedral!!!

"The first orator, after this effort, would return to the place whence he had come, and another,
succeeding to him, after repeating the same pantomime as the former, would exclaim:

  "Ogive!!!

"Then a third would come forward, and, after looking all around, would risk the word:

  "Pyramid-of-Egypt!!!

"And thereat the whole assembly would start off into frenzies of applause, and fifty or sixty
voices would repeat in chorus the sacramental words that had just been pronounced separately."

The degree of absurdity to which a portion of society must have attained before such scenes
as the above could become possible may serve as a commentary and an explanation to half the
literature which flooded the stage and the press in France for the first six or eight years
after the Revolution of 1830. However, to be just, we must, in extenuation of all these absurdities,
cite one passage more from Mme. Ancelot's book, in which, in one respect, at all events, the
youth of twenty years ago in Paris are shown to have been superior to the youth of the present day.

"Nodier's parties were extremely amusing," says our authoress; "his charming daughter was the
life of the whole; she drew around her young girls of her own age; poets, musicians, painters,
young and joyous as these, were their partners in the dance, and every one was full of hope
and dreaming of glory. But what brought all the light-heartedness, all the enthusiasm, all
the exultation to its utmost height was, that, in all that youth, so trusting and so hopeful,
no one gave a single thought to money!"

Assuredly, it would be impossible to say as much nowadays.

Taken as a whole, Mme. Ancelot's little volume is, as we said, an amusing and an instructive
one. It is not so from any portion of her own individuality she has infused into it, but, on
the contrary, from the entire sincerity with which it mirrors other people. We recommend it
to our readers, for it is a record of Paris society in its successive transformations from
1789 to 1848, and paints a class of people and a situation of things, equally true types whereof
may possibly not be observable in future times.

Footnote 1: Les Salons de Paris.--Foyers Eteints. Par Mme. Ancelot. 12mo. Paris.

Footnote 2: It will be remembered that on field-days Murat had adopted a hat and feathers of
a most ridiculous kind, and that have become proverbial.

THE DISCOVERER OF THE NORTH CAPE.

A LEAF FROM KING ALFRED'S "OROSIUS."

  His figure was tall and stately;
    Like a boy's his eye appeared;
  His hair was yellow as hay,
  But threads of a silvery gray
    Gleamed in his tawny beard.

  Hearty and hale was Othere,
    His cheek had the color of oak;
  With a kind of laugh in his speech,
  Like the sea-tide on a beach,
    As unto the King he spoke.

  And Alfred, King of the Saxons,
    Had a book upon his knees,
  And wrote down the wondrous tale
  Of him who was first to sail
    Into the Arctic seas.

  "So far I live to the northward,
    No man lives north of me;
  To the east are wild mountain-chains,
  And beyond them meres and plains;
    To the westward all is sea.

  "So far I live to the northward,
    From the harbor of Skeringes-hale,
  If you only sailed by day,
  With a fair wind all the way,
    More than a month would you sail.

  "I own six hundred reindeer,
    With sheep and swine beside;
  I have tribute from the Fins,--
  Whalebone, and reindeer-skins,
    And ropes of walrus-hide.

  "I ploughed the land with horses,
    But my heart was ill at ease,
  For the old seafaring men
  Came to me now and then
    With their sagas of the seas,--

  "Of Iceland, and of Greenland,
    And the stormy Hebrides,
  And the undiscovered deep;--
  I could not eat nor sleep
    For thinking of those seas.

  "To the northward stretched the desert,--
    How far I fain would know;
  So at last I sallied forth,
  And three days sailed due north,
    As far as the whale-ships go.

  "To the west of me was the ocean,--
    To the right the desolate shore;
  But I did not slacken sail
  For the walrus or the whale,
    Till after three days more.

  "The days grew longer and longer,
    Till they became as one;
  And southward through the haze
  I saw the sullen blaze
    Of the red midnight sun.

  "And then uprose before me,
    Upon the water's edge,
  The huge and haggard shape
  Of that unknown North Cape,
    Whose form is like a wedge.

  Here Alfred, King of the Saxons,
    Ceased writing for a while;
  And raised his eyes from his book,
  With a strange and puzzled look,
    And an incredulous smile.

  But Othere, the old sea-captain,
    He neither paused nor stirred;
  And the King listened, and then
  Once more took up his pen,
    And wrote down every word.

  "And there we hunted the walrus,
    The narwhale, and the seal:
  Ha!

  "There were six of us altogether,
    Norsemen of Helgoland;
  In two days and no more
  We killed of them threescore,
    And dragged them to the strand!"

  Here Alfred the Truth-Teller
    Suddenly closed his book,
  And lifted his blue eyes
  With doubt and strange surmise
    Depicted in their look.

  And Othere, the old sea-captain,
    Stared at him wild and weird,
  Then smiled, till his shining teeth
  Gleamed white from underneath
    His tawny, quivering beard.

THE AUTOCRAT OF THE BREAKFAST-TABLE.

EVERY MAN HIS OWN BOSWELL.

THE TRUSTEE'S LAMENT.

Per aspera ad astra.

(SCENE.--Outside the gate of the Astronomical Observatory at Albany.)

  There was a time when I was blest;
  The stars might rise in East or West
      With all their sines and wonders;
  I cared for neither great nor small,
  As pointedly unmoved by all
  As, on the top of steeple tall,
      A lightning-rod at thunders.

  What did I care for Science then?
  I was a man with fellow-men,
      And called the Bear the Dipper;
  Segment meant piece of pie,--no more;
  Cosine, the parallelogram that bore
  JOHN SMITH & CO. above a door;
      Arc, what called Noah skipper.

  No axes weighed upon my mind,
  (Unless I had a few to grind.)
      And as for my astronomy,
  Had Hedgecock's quadrant then been known,
  I might a lamp-post's height have shown
  By gas-tronomic skill,--if none
      Find fault with the metonymy.

  O hours of innocence! O ways
  How far from these unhappy days
      When all is vicy-versy!
  No flower more peaceful took its due
  Than I, who then no difference knew
  'Twixt Ursy Major and my true
      Old crony, Major Hersey.

  Now in long broils and feuds we roast,
  Like Strasburg geese that living toast
      To make a liver-paté,--
  And all because we fondly strove
  To set the city of our love
  In scientific fame above
      Her sister Cincinnati!

  We built our tower and furnished it
  With everything folks said was fit,
      From coping-stone to grounsel;
  And then, to give a knowing air,
  Just nominally assigned its care
  To that unmanageable affair,
      A Scientific Council.

  We built it, not that one or two
  Astronomers the stars might view
      And count the comets' hair-roots,
  But that it might by all be said
  How very freely we had bled,--
  We were not laying out a bed
      To force their early square-roots.

  The observations we wished made
  Were on the spirit we'd displayed,
      Worthy of Athens' high days;
  But they've put in a man who thinks
  Only of planets' nodes and winks,
  So full of astronomic kinks
      He eats star-fish on Fridays.

  The instruments we did not mean
  For seeing through, but to be seen
      At tap of Trustee's knuckle;
  But the Director locks the gate,
  And makes ourselves and strangers wait
  While he is ciphering on a slate
      The rust of Saturn's buckle.

  So on the wall's outside we stand,
  Admire the keyhole's contour grand
      And gateposts' sturdy granite;--
  But, ah, is Science safe, we say,
  With one who treats Trustees this way?
  Who knows but he may snub, some day,
      A well-conducted planet?

  Who knows what mischief he may brew
  With such a telescope brand-new
      At the four-hundredth power?
  He may bring some new comet down
  So near that it'll singe the town
  And do the Burgess-Corps crisp-brown
      Ere they can storm his tower.

  We wanted (having got our show)
  Some man, that had a name or so,
      To be our public showman;
  But this one shuts and locks the gate:
  Who'll answer but he'll peculate,
  (And, faith, some stars are missed of late,)
      Now that he's watched by no man?

  Our own discoveries he may steal,
  Or put night's candles out, to deal
      At junkshops with the sockets:
  Savants, in other lands or this,
  If any theory you miss
  Whereon your cipher graven is,
      Don't fail to search his pockets!

  Lock up your comets: if that fails,
  Then notch their ears and clip their tails,
      That you at need may swear to 'em;
  And watch your nebulous flocks at night,
  For, if your palings are not tight,
  He may, to gratify his spite,
      Let in the Little Bear to 'em.

  Then he's so quarrelsome, we've fears
  He'll set the very Twins by the ears,--
      So mad, if you resist him,
  He'd get Aquarius to play
  A milkman's trick, some cloudy day,
  And water all the Milky Way
      To starve some sucking system.

  But plaints are vain! through wrath or pride,
  The Council all espouse his side
      And will our missives con no more;
  And who that knows what savants are,
  Each snappish as a Leyden jar,
  Will hope to soothe the wordy war
      'Twixt Ologist and Onomer?

  Search a Reform Convention, where
  He- and she-resiarehs prepare
      To get the world in their power,
  You will not, when 'tis loudest, find
  Such gifts to hug and snarl combined
  As drive each astronomic mind
      With fifty-score Great-Bear-power!

  No! put the Bootees on your foot,
  Elope with Virgo, strive to shoot
      That arrow of O'Ryan's,
  Drain Georgian Ciders to the lees,
  Attempt what crackbrained thing you please,
  But dream not you can e'er appease
      An angry man of science!

  Ah, would I were, as I was once,
  To fair Astronomy a dunce,
      Or launching jeux d'esprit at her,
  Of light zodiacal making light,
  Deaf to all tales of comets bright,
  And knowing but such stars as might
      Roll r-rs at our theatre!

  Then calm I drew my night-cap on,
  Nor bondsman was for what went on
      Ere morning in the heavens;
  Twas no concern of mine to fix
  The Pleiades at seven or six,--
  But now the omnium genitrix
      Seems all at sixes and sevens.

  Alas, 'twas in an evil hour
  We signed the paper for the tower,
      With Mrs. D. to head it!
  For, if the Council have their way,
  We've merely had, as Frenchmen say,
  The painful maladie du pay,
      While they get all the credit!

  Boys, henceforth doomed to spell Trustees,
  Think not it ends in double ease
      To those who hold the office;
  Shun Science as you would Despair,
  Sit not in Cassiopeia's chair,
  Nor hope from Berenice's hair
      To bring away your trophies!

THE POCKET-CELEBRATION OF THE FOURTH.

Well, it has happened, and we have survived it pretty well. The Democratic Almanacs predicted
a torrent, a whirlwind, and we know not what meteoric phenomena,--but the next day Nature gave
no sign, the dome of the State-House was in its place, the Monument was as plumb as ever, no
chimney mourned a ravished brick, and the Republican Party took its morning tea and toast in
peace and safety. On the whole, it must be considered a wonderful escape. Since Partridge's
time there had been no such prophecies,--since Miller's, no such perverse disobligingness in
the event.

But what had happened? Why, the Democratic Young Men's Celebration, to be sure, and Mr. Choate's
Oration.

The good city of Boston in New England, for we know not how many years, had been in the habit
of celebrating the National Birthday, first, with an oration, as became the Athens of America,
and second, with a dinner, as was meet in the descendants of Teutonic forefathers. The forenoon's
oration glorified us in the lump as a people, and every man could reckon and appropriate his
own share of credit by the simple arithmetical process of dividing the last census by the value
he set upon himself, a divisor easily obtained by subtracting from the total of inhabitants
in his village the number of neighbors whom he considered ciphers. At the afternoon's dinner,
the pudding of praise was served out in slices to favored individuals; dry toasts were drunk
by drier dignitaries; the Governor was compared to Solon; the Chief Justice to Brutus; the
Orator of the Day to Demosthenes; the Colonel of the Boston Regiment to Julius Cæsar; and everybody
went home happy from a feast where the historic parallels were sure to hold out to the last
Z in Lemprière.

Gradually matters took a new course; the Union was suddenly supposed to lie at the point of
dissolution, and what we may call the Doctor-Brandreth style of oratory began. Every orator
mounted the rostrum, like a mountebank at a fair, to proclaim the virtues of his private panacea
for the morbid Commonwealth, and, as was natural in young students of political therapeutics,
fancied that he saw symptoms of the dread malady of Disunion in a simple eruption of Jethro
Furber at a convention of the Catawampusville Come-outers, or of Pyrophagus Quattlebum at a
training of the Palmetto Plug-Uglies,--neither of which was skin-deep. The dinners became equally
dreary. Did the eye of a speaker light on the national dish of beans, he was reminded of the
languid pulse of the sentiment of union; did he see a broiled chicken, it called up to his
mind's eye the bird of our uncommon country, with the gridiron on his breast, liable to be
reduced at any moment to the heraldic duality of his Austrian congener by the strife of contending
sections pulling in opposite directions; an innocent pippin was enough to suggest the apple
of discord; and with the removal of the cloth came a dessert of diagnoses on the cancer that
was supposed to be preying on the national vitals. The only variety was a cringing compliment,
in which Bunker Hill curtsied to King's Mountain, to any Southern brother who chanced to be
present, and who replied patronizingly,--while his compatriots at the warmer end of the Union
were probably, with amiable sincerity, applying to the Yankees that epithet whose expression
in type differs but little from that of a doctorate in divinity, but which precedes the name
it qualifies, as that follows it, and was never, except by Beaumarchais and Fielding, reckoned
among titles of honor or courtesy.

A delusion seemed to have taken possession of our public men, that the people wanted doctors
of the body-politic to rule over them, and, if those were not to be had, would put up with
the next best thing,--quacks. Every one who was willing to be an Eminent Statesman issued his
circulars, like the Retired Physician, on all public occasions, offering to send his recipe
in return for a vote. The cabalistic formula always turned out to be this:--"Take your humble
servant for four years at the White House; if no cure is effected, repeat the dose."

Meanwhile were there any symptoms of disease in the Constitution? Not the least. The whole
affair was like one of those alarms in a country-town which begin with the rumor of ten cases
of confluent small-pox and end with the discovery that the doctor has been called to a case
of nettle-rash at Deacon Scudder's. But sober men, who loved the Union in a quiet way, without
advertising it in the newspapers, and who were willing to sacrifice everything to the Constitution
but the rights it was intended to protect, began to fear that the alarmists might create the
disease which they kept up so much excitement about.

This being the posture of affairs, the city of Boston, a twelvemonth since, chose for their
annual orator a clergyman distinguished for eloquence, and for that important part of patriotism,
at least, which consists in purity of life. This gentleman, being neither a candidate for office
nor the canvasser of a candidate, ventured upon a new kind of address. He took for his theme
the duties consequent upon the privileges of Freedom, ventured to mention self-respect as one
of them, and commented upon the invitation of a Virginia Senator, the author of the Fugitive
Slave Bill, to a Seventeenth-of-June Celebration, while the Senators of Massachusetts were
neglected. In speaking of this, he used, we believe, the word "flunkeyism." It is not an elegant
word; it is not even an English one;--but had the speaker sought for a Saxon correlative, he
could hardly have found one that would have seemed more satisfactory, especially to those who
deserved it; for Saxon is straightforward, and a reluctance to be classified (fatal to science)
is characteristic of the human animal.

An orator who suggests a new view of any topic is a disturber of the digestive organs,--this
was very properly a matter of offence to the Aldermen who were to dine after the oration,--but
an orator who tampers with the language we have inherited from Shakspeare and Milton, and which
we share with Tupper, was an object for deeper reprobation. The Young Men's Democratic Association
of Boston are purists; they are jealous for their mother-tongue,--and it is the more disinterested
in them as a large proportion of them are Irishmen; they are exclusive,--a generous confusion
of ideas as to the meaning of democracy, even more characteristically Hibernian; they are sentimental,
too,--melancholy as gibcats,--and feared (from last year's example) that the city might not
furnish them with a sufficiently lachrymose Antony to hold up before them the bloody garment
of America, and show what rents the envious Blairs and Wilsons and Douglasses had made in it.
Accordingly they resolved to have a public celebration all to themselves,--a pocket-edition
of the cumbrous civic work,--and as the city provided fireworks in the evening, in order to
be beforehand with it in their pyrotechnics, they gave Mr. Choate in the forenoon.

We did not hear Mr. Choate's oration; we only read it in the newspapers. Cold fireworks, the
morning after, are not enlivening. You have the form without the fire, and the stick without
the soar. But we soon found that we were to expect no such disappointment from Mr. Choate.
He seems to announce at the outset that he has closed his laboratory. The Prospero of periods
had broken his wand and sunk his book deeper than ever office-hunter sounded. The boys in the
street might wander fancy-free, and fire their Chinese crackers as they listed; but for him
this was a solemn occasion, and he invited his hearers to a Stoic feast of Medford crackers
and water, to a philosophic banquet of metaphors and metaphysics.

We confess that we expected a great deal. Better a crust with Plato than nightingales' tongues
with Apicius; and if Mr. Choate promised only the crust, we were sure of one melodious tongue,
at least, before the meal was over. He is a man of whom any community might be proud. Were
society an organized thing here, as in Europe, no dinner and no drawing-room would be perfect
without his talk. He would have been heard gladly at Johnson's club. The Hortensins of our
courts, with a cloud of clients, he yet finds time to be a scholar and a critic, and to read
Plato and Homer as they were read by Plato's and Homer's countrymen. Unsurpassed in that eloquence
which, if it does not convince, intoxicates a jury, he was counted, so long as Webster lived,
the second advocate of our bar.

All this we concede to Mr. Choate with unreserved admiration; but when, leaving the field where
he had won his spurs as the successful defender of men criminally accused, he undertakes to
demonstrate the sources whence national life is drawn, and the causes which lead to its decay,--to
expound authoritatively the theory of political ethics and the principles of sagacious statesmanship,
wary in its steps, and therefore durable in its results,--it becomes natural and fair to ask,
What has been the special training that has fitted him for the task? More than this: when he
comes forward as the public prosecutor of the Republican Party, it becomes our duty to examine
the force of his arguments and the soundness of his logic. Has his own experience given him
any right to talk superciliously to a great party overwhelmingly triumphant in the Free States?
And does his oration show him to possess such qualities of mind, such grasp of reason, such
continuity of induction, as to entitle him to underrate the intelligence of so large a number
of his fellow-citizens by accusing them of being incapable of a generalization and incompetent
to apprehend a principle?

The Bar has given few historically-great statesmen to the world,--fewer than the Church, which
Mr. Choate undervalues in a sentence which, we cannot help thinking, is below the dignity of
the occasion, and jarringly discordant with the generally elevated tone of his address. Burke,
an authority whom Mr. Choate will not call in question, has said that the training of the bar
tends to make the faculties acute, but at the same time narrow. The study of jurisprudence
may, no doubt, enlarge the intellect; but the habit of mind induced by an indiscriminate advocacy--which
may be summoned to the defence of a Sidney to-day and of a spoon-thief to-morrow--is rather
that of the sophist than of the philosophic reasoner. Not truth, but the questionable victory
of the moment, becomes naturally and inevitably the aim and end of all the pleader's faculties.
For him the question is not what principle, but what interest of John Doe, may be at stake.
Such has been Mr. Choate's school as a reasoner. As a politician, his experience has been limited.
The member of a party which rarely succeeded in winning, and never in long retaining, the suffrages
of the country, he for a time occupied a seat in the Senate, but without justifying the expectations
of his friends. So far, his history shows nothing that can give him the right to assume so
high and mighty a tone in speaking of his political opponents.

But in his scholarship he has a claim to be heard, and to be heard respectfully. Here lies
his real strength, and hence is derived the inspiration of his better eloquence. The scholar
enjoys more than the privilege, without the curse, of the Wandering Jew. He can tread the windy
plain of Troy, he can listen to Demosthenes, can follow Dante through Paradise, can await the
rising of the curtain for the first acting of Hamlet. Mr. Choate's oration shows that he has
drawn that full breath which is, perhaps, possible only under a Grecian sky, and it is, in
its better parts, scholarly in the best sense of the word.[1] It shows that he has read out-of-the-way
books, like Bodinus "De Republicâ," and fresh ones, like Gladstone's Homer,--that he can do
justice, with Spinoza, to Machiavelli,--and that in letters, at least, he has no narrow prejudices.
Its sentences are full of scholarly allusion, and its language glitters continually with pattins
of bright gold from Shakspeare. We abhor that profane vulgarity of our politics which denies
to an antagonist the merits which are justly his, because he may have been blinded to the truth
of our principles by the demerits which are justly ours,--which hates the man because it hates
his creed, and, instead of grappling with his argument, seeks in the kitchen-drains of scandal
for the material to bespatter his reputation. Let us say, then, honestly, what we honestly
think,--the feeling, the mastery and choice of language, the intellectual comprehensiveness
of glance, which can so order the many-columned aisle of a period, that the eye, losing none
of the crowded particulars, yet sees through all, at the vista's end, the gleaming figure of
thought to enshrine which the costly fabric was reared,--all these qualities of the orator
demand and receive our sincere applause. In an age when indolence or the study of French models
has reduced our sentences to the economic curtness of telegraphic despatches, to the dimension
of the epigram without its point, Mr. Choate is one of the few whose paragraphs echo with the
long-resounding pace of Dryden's coursers, and who can drive a predicate and six without danger
of an overset.

Mr. Choate begins by congratulating his hearers that there comes one day in our year when "faults
may be forgotten,-- ... when the arrogance of reform, the excesses of reform, the strife of
parties, the rivalries of regions, shall give place to a wider, warmer, juster sentiment,--when,
turning from the corners and dark places of offensiveness, ... we may go up together to the
serene and secret mountain-top," etc. Had he kept to the path which he thus marked out for
himself, we should have had nothing to say. But he goes out of his way to indulge a spleen
unworthy of himself and the occasion, and brings against political opponents, sometimes directly,
sometimes by innuendo, charges which, as displaying personal irritation, are impolitic and
in bad taste. One fruit of scholarship, and its fairest, he does not seem to have plucked,--one
proof of contented conviction in the truth of his opinions he does not give,--that indifference
to contemporary clamor and hostile criticism, that magnanimous self-trust, which, assured of
its own loyalty to present duty, can wait patiently for future justice.

His exordium over, Mr. Choate proceeds to define and to discuss Nationality. We heartily agree
with him in all he says in its praise, and draw attention, in passing, to a charming idyllic
passage in which he speaks of the early influences which first develope in us its germinal
principle. But when he says, that the sentiment of a national life, once existing, must still
be kept alive by an exercise of the reason and the will, we dissent. It must be a matter of
instinct, or it is nothing. The examples of nationality which he cites are those of ancient
Greece and modern Germany. Now we affirm, that, with accidental exceptions, nationality has
always been a matter of race, and was eminently so in the instances he quotes. If we read rightly,
the nationality which glows in the "Iliad," and which it was, perhaps, one object of the poem
to rouse or to make coherent, is one of blood, not territory. The same is true of Germany,
of Russia, (adding the element of a common religious creed,) and of France, where the Celtic
sentiment becomes day by day more predominant. The exceptions are England and Switzerland,
whose intense nationality is due to insulation, and Holland, which was morally an island, cut
off as it was from France by difference of language and antipathy of race, and from kindred
Germany by the antagonism of institutions. A patriotism by the chart is a monster that the
world ne'er saw. Men may fall in love with a lady's picture, but not with the map of their
country. Few persons have the poetic imagination of Mr. Choate, that can vivify the dead lines
and combine the complex features. It seems to us that our own problem of creating a national
sentiment out of such diverse materials of race, such sometimes discordant or even hostile
traditions, and then of giving it an intenseness of vitality that can overcome our vast spaces
and our differences of climate and interest, is a new problem, not easily to be worked out
by the old methods. Mr. Choate's plan seems to consist in the old formula of the Fathers. He
would have us think of their sacrifices and their heroisms, their common danger and their common
deliverance. Excellent, as far as it goes; but what are we to do with the large foreign fraction
of our population imported within the last forty years, a great proportion of whom never so
much as heard even of the war of 1812? Shall we talk of Bennington and Yorktown to the Germans,
whose grandfathers, if they were concerned at all in those memorable transactions, were concerned
on the wrong side? Shall we talk of the constancy of Puritan Pilgrims to the Romanist Irishman,
who knows more of Brian Boroo than of the Mayflower?

It will be many generations before we become so fused as to have a common past, and the conciliation
and forbearance which Mr. Choate recommends to related sections of country will be more than
equally necessary to unrelated races. But while we are waiting for a past in which we can all
agree, Mr. Choate sees danger in the disrespect which he accuses certain anonymi of entertaining
for the past in general. But for what past? Does Mr. Choate mean our own American past? Does
he refer us to that for lessons of forbearance, submission, and waiting for God's good time?
Is the contemplation of their own history and respect for their own traditions the lenitive
he prescribes for a people whose only history is a revolution, whose only tradition is rebellion?
To what past and to what tradition did the Pilgrim Fathers appeal, except to that past, older
than all history, that tradition, sacred from all decay, which, derived from an antiquity behind
and beyond all the hoary generations, points the human soul to the God from whom it derived
life, and with it the privilege of freedom and the duty of obedience? To what historical past
did Jefferson go for the preamble of the Declaration, unless to the reveries of a half-dozen
innovating enthusiasts, men of the closet,--of that class which Mr. Choate disparages by implication,
though it has done more to shape the course of the world than any number of statesmen, whose
highest office is, commonly, to deal prudently with the circumstances of the moment?

Mr. Choate does a great injustice to the Republican Party when he lays this irreverence for
the past to their charge. As he seems to think that he alone has read books and studied the
lessons of antiquity, he will be pleased to learn that there are persons also in that party
who have not neglected all their opportunities in that kind. The object of the Republicans
is to bring back the policy and practice of the Republic to some nearer agreement with the
traditions of the fathers. They also have a National Idea,--for some of them are capable of
distinguishing "a phrase from an idea," or Mr. Choate would find it easier to convert them.
They propose to create a National Sentiment, in the only way that is possible under conditions
like ours, by clearing the way for the development of a nation which shall be, not only in
Fourth-of-July orations, but on every day in the year, and in the mouths of all peoples, great
and wise, just and brave, and whose idea, always august and venerable, by turns lovely and
terrible, shall bind us all in a common nationality by our loyalty to what is true, our reverence
for what is good, our love for what is beautiful, and our sense of security in what is mighty.
That is the America which the Fathers conceived, and it is that to which the children look
forward,--an America which shall displace Ireland and Germany, Massachusetts and Carolina,
in the hearts of those who call them mother, with an image of maternity at once more tender
and more majestic.

There is a past for which Republicans have indeed no respect,--but it is one of recent date;
there is a history from which they refuse to take lessons except for warning and not example,--but
it is a history which is not yet written. When the future historian shall study that past and
gather materials for writing that history, he will find cause for wonder at the strength of
that national vitality which could withstand and survive, not the efforts of Mr. Choate's dreadful
reformers, but of an administration calling itself Democratic, which, with the creed of the
Ostend Manifesto for its foreign, and the practice of Kansas for its domestic policy, could
yet find a scholar and a gentleman like Mr. Choate to defend it.

Mr. Choate charges the Republicans with being incapable of a generalization. They can, at least,
generalize so far as this, that, when they find a number of sophistries in an argument, they
conclude that the cause which requires their support must be a weak one. One of the most amusing
of these in the oration before us is where (using the very same arguments that were urged in
favor of that coalition in Massachusetts against the morality of which the then party of Mr.
Choate exclaimed so loudly) he extols the merits of Compromise in statesmanship. In support
of what he says on this subject, he quotes from a speech of Archbishop Whately a passage in
favor of Expediency. It is really too bad, that the Primate of Ireland, of all men living,
should be made the abetter in two fallacies. In the first place, Mr. Choate assumes that there
are certain deluded persons who affirm that all compromises in politics are wrong. Having stuffed
out his man of straw, he proceeds gravely to argue with him, as if he were as cunning of fence
as Duns Scotus. One would think, from some of the notions he deems it necessary to combat,
that we were living in the time of the Fifth-Monarchy men, and that Captain Venner with his
troop was ready to issue from the garrets of Batterymarch Street, to find Armageddon in Dock
Square, and the Beast of the Revelation in the Chief of Police. There is no man who believes
that the ship of State, any more than an ordinary vessel, can be navigated by the New Testament
alone; but neither will be the worse for having it aboard. The Puritans sailed theirs by Deuteronomy,
but it was a Deuteronomy qualified by an eye to the main chance. Mr. Choate's syllogism may
be stated thus: Some compromises are necessary in order to carry on a free government; but
this is a compromise; therefore it is necessary. Here is the first fallacy. The other syllogism
runs thus: Expediency is essential in politics; so also is compromise; therefore some particular
compromise is expedient. Fallacy number two. The latent application in this part of Mr. Choate's
oration is, of course, to Compromises on the Slavery question. We agree with him, that no man
of sense will deny that compromise is essential in politics, and especially in our politics.
With a single exception, all that he says on this topic is expressed with masterly force and
completeness. But when we come to the application of it, the matter assumes another face. Men
of sense may, and do, differ as to what is a compromise, or, agreeing in that, they may differ
again as to whether it be expedient. For example, if a man, having taken another's cloak, insist
on taking his coat also, the denudee, though he might congratulate himself on having been set
forward so far on his way toward the natural man of Rousseau, would hardly call the affair
a compromise on the part of the denuder. Or again, if his brother with principles should offer
to compromise about the coat by taking only half of it, he would be in considerable doubt whether
the arrangement were expedient. Now there are many honest people, not as eloquent as Mr. Choate,
not as scholarly, and perhaps not more illogical, who firmly believe that our compromises on
the question of Slavery have afforded examples of both the species above described. It is not
unnatural, therefore, that, while they assent to his general theory, they should protest against
his mode of applying it to particulars. They may be incapable of a generalization, (they certainly
are, if this be Mr. Choate's notion of one,) but they are incapable also of a deliberate fallacy.
We think we find here one of the cases in which his training as an advocate has been of evil
effect on his fairness of mind. No more potent lie can be made than of the ashes of truth.
A fallacy is dangerous because of the half-truth in it. Swallow a strong dose of pure poison,
and the stomach may reject it; but take half as much, mixed with innocent water, and it will
do you a mischief. But Mr. Choate is nothing, if not illogical: recognizing the manifest hand
of God in the affairs of the world, he would leave the question of Slavery with Him. Now we
offer Mr. Choate a dilemma: either God always interferes, or sometimes: if always, why need
Mr. Choate meddle? why not leave it to Him to avert the dangers of Anti-slavery, as well as
to remedy the evils of Slavery?--if only sometimes, (nec deus intersit nisi dignus vindice
nodus,) who is to decide when the time for human effort has come? Each man for himself, or
Mr. Choate for all?

Let us try Mr. Choate's style of reasoning against himself. He says, "One may know Aristophanes
and Geography and the Cosmical Unity and Telluric Influences," (why didn't he add, "Neptune,
Plutarch, and Nicodemus"!) "and the smaller morals of life, and the sounding pretensions of
philanthropy," (this last, at any rate, is useful knowledge,) "and yet not know America." We
must confess, that we do not see why on earth he should. In fact, by the time he had got to
the "Telluric Influences," (whatever they are,) we should think he might consider his education
completed, and his head would even then be as great a wonder as that of the schoolmaster in
the "Deserted Village." In the same way, a man might have seen a horse, (if only a clothes-horse,)
a dog, a cat, and a tadpole, and yet never have seen the elephant,--a most blame-worthy neglect
of opportunities. But let us apply Mr. Choate's syllogistic process to the list of this extraordinary
nameless person's acquirements. The Republican Party do not know any of these amazing things;
ergo, they must know America; and the corollary (judging from Mr. Choate's own practice, as
displayed in the parts of his oration which we are sure he will one day wish to blot) would
seem to be, that, having the honor of her acquaintance, they may apply very contemptuous epithets
to everybody that disagrees with them. The only weak point in our case is, that Mr. Choate
himself seems to allow them the one merit of knowing something of Geography,--for he says they
wished to elect a "geographical President,"--but, perhaps, as they did not succeed in doing
so, he will forgive them the possession of that accomplishment, so hostile to a knowledge of
America.

We confess that we were surprised to find Mr. Choate reviving, on "the serene and secret mountain-top,"--which,
being interpreted, means the rather prosaic Tremont Temple,--the forgotten slang of a bygone
political contest, as in the instance we have just quoted of the "geographical President."
We think that Colonel Fremont might be allowed to rest in peace, now that a California court
has decided--with a logic worthy of Mr. Choate himself--that he has no manner of right to the
gold in his Mariposa mines, because he owns them. But we should like to have Mr. Choate define,
when he has leisure, where an unfortunate candidate can take up his abode, in order to escape
the imputation of being "geographical." It is a grave charge to be brought against any man,
as we see by its being coupled with those dreadful Telluric Influences and Cosmical (ought
we not to dele the s?) Unities; and since the most harmless man in the world may become a candidate
before he expects it, it would be charitable to warn him beforehand what is an allowable habitat
in such a contingency.

We said we were surprised at seeing our old friend, the "geographical President," again; but
we soon found that he reappeared only as the file-leader of a ragged regiment of kindred scarecrows,--nay,
with others so battered and bedraggled, that they were scarce fit to be the camp-followers
of the soldiery with whom Falstaff refused to march through Coventry. The sarcasms which Mr.
Choate vents against the Anti-slavery sentiment of the country are so old as to be positively
respectable,--we wish we could say that their vivacity increased with their years,--and as
for his graver indictments, there never was anything so ancient, unless it be an American lad
of eighteen. There are not a great many of either, but they are made to recur often enough
to produce the impression of numbers. They remind us of the theatric army, composed always
of the same old guard of supernumeraries and candle-snuffers, and which, by marching round
and round the paper forest in the background, would make six men pass muster very well for
sixty, did not the fatally regular recurrence of the hero whose cotton armor bunches at the
knees, and the other whose legs insist on the un-Grecian eccentricity of being straight in
profile and crooked in a front view, bring us back to calmer estimates.

We used the word indictments with design, both as appropriate to Mr. Choate's profession and
exactly descriptive of the thing itself. For, as in an indictment for murder, in order to close
every loophole of evasion, the prudent attorney affirms that the accused did the deed with
an awfully destructive to-wit,--with a knife, axe, bludgeon, pistol, bootjack, six-pounder,
and what not, which were then and there in the Briarean hands of him the said What's-his-name,
so Mr. Choate represents the Republican Party to have attempted the assassination of the Constitution
with a most remarkable medley of instruments. He does not, indeed, use the words "Republican
Party," but it is perfectly clear from the context, as in the case of the "geographical President,"
for whom the charges are intended. Out of tenderness for the artist, let him for whom the garment
is intended put it on, though it may not fit him,--and for our own parts, as humble members
of the Anti-slave-trade, Anti-filibuster, and Anti-disreputable-things-generally Party, we
don our Joseph's coat (for Mr. Choate could not make one that was not of many colors) with
good-humored serenity.

Of course, Sectionalism is not forgotten. The pumpkin-lantern, that had performed so many offices
of alarm, though a little wrinkled now, was too valuable a stage-property to be neglected.
In the hands of so skilful an operator, its slender body flutters voluminous with new folds
of inexpensive cotton, and its eyes glare with the baleful terrors of unlimited tallow. Mr.
Choate honestly confesses that sectional jealousies are coeval with the country itself, but
it is only as fomented by Anti-slavery-extension that he finds them dreadful. When South Carolina
threatened disunion unless the Tariff of the party to which Mr. Choate then belonged were modified,
did he think it necessary for the Protectionists to surrender their policy? There is not, and
there never was, any party numerically considerable at the North, in favor of disunion. Were
homilies on fraternal concessions the things to heal this breach, the South is the fitting
place for their delivery; but mouth-glue, however useful to stick slight matters together,
is not the cement with which confederacies are bound to a common centre. There must be the
gravitation of interest as well as of honor and duty. We wonder that the parallel case of Scotland
and England did not occur to Mr. Choate, in speaking upon this point. Scotland was clamorous
and England jealously contemptuous, for nearly a century. Twice since the union, the land of
cakes has been in rebellion; but as long as a pound Scots was only a twentieth part of a pound
English,--as long as the treasury was filled chiefly from south the Tweed, and the sons of
poor and proud Scottish lairds could make glittering abstractions from it,--as long as place
was to be won or hoped for,--there was no danger. So with us,--though Jacob and Esau quarrelled
already in the womb, yet, so long as the weaker and more politic brother can get the elder
brother's portion, and simple Esau hunts his whales and pierces his untrodden forests, content
with his mess of pottage,--honestly abiding by his bargain, though a little puzzled at its
terms,--we think that fratricide, or the sincere thought of it, is very far off.

       *       *       *       *       *

We should be glad to extract some passages of peculiar force and beauty,--such as that where
Mr. Choate rebukes the undue haste of reformers, and calls to mind the slow development and
longevity of states and ideas. But our duty is the less pleasing one of pointing to some of
the sophistries of the argument and some of the ill-advised ebullitions of the orator. We leave
his exegesis of "Render unto Cæsar" to answer itself; but what can be worse than this,--worse
in taste, in temper, in reason?

  "There is a cant of shallowness and fanaticism which misunderstands
  and denies this. There is a distempered and ambitious morality which
  says civil prudence is no virtue. There is a philanthropy,--so it
  calls itself,--pedantry, arrogance, folly, cruelty, impiousness, I
  call it, fit enough for a pulpit, totally unfit for a people,--fit
  enough for a preacher, totally unfit for a statesman."

Think of it!--fit enough for St. Augustine and St. Francis, (to mention no greater names,)
fit enough for Taylor and Barrow, for Bossuet and Fénelon, but not for Mr. Buchanan or Mr. Cushing!

In another place Mr. Choate says, "that even the laughter of fools, and children, and madmen,
little ministers, little editors, and little politicians, can inflict the mosquito-bite, not
deep, but stinging." As this is one of the best of his sarcasms, we give it the advantage of
the circulation of the "Atlantic,"--generous and tidal circulation, as he himself might call
it. We do not think the mosquito image new,--if we remember, the editor of the Bungtown Copperhead
uses it weekly against "our pitiful contemporary,"--though the notion of a mosquito-bite inflicted
by a laugh is original with Mr. Choate, unless Lord Castlereagh may have used it before. But
we would seriously ask Mr. Choate who the big ministers of the country are, if the Beechers,
if Wayland, Park, Bushnell, Cheever, Furness, Parker, Hedge, Bellows, and Huntington are the
little ones?

There is an amusing passage in which Mr. Choate would seem to assume to himself and those who
agree with him the honors of martyrdom. This shows a wonderful change in public opinion; though
the martyrs in the "Legenda Aurea" and Fox seem to have had a harder time of it than we supposed
to be the case with Mr. Choate.

We have not space to follow him farther, and only the reputation of the man, and the singularity
of the occasion, which gave a kind of national significance to the affair, would have tempted
us to intrude upon the select privacy of the Young Men's Democratic Association.

Finally, as Mr. Choate appears to have a very mean opinion of the understandings and the culture
of those opposed to him in politics, we beg to remind him, since he has been led out, like
Balaam, to prophesy against the tents and armies of the Republican Israel, and has ended by
proving their invincibility, that it was an animal in all respects inferior to a prophet, and
in some to a politician, who was first aware of the presence of the heavenly messenger; and
it may be that persons incapable of a generalization--as that patient creature undoubtedly
was--may see as far into the future as the greatest philosopher who turns his eyes always to
the past.

Footnote 1: We may be allowed to wonder, however, at his speaking of "memories that burn and
revel in the pages of Herodotus,"--a phrase which does injustice to the simple and quiet style
of the delightful Pepys of Antiquity.

LITERARY NOTICES.

DR. ASA GRAY'S Botanical Series, New York, Ivison & Phinney, consisting of--

I. How Plants Grow, etc., with a Popular Flora, etc. 16mo. pp. 233.

II. First Lessons in Botany and Vegetable Physiology. 8vo. pp. 236.

III. Introduction to Structural and Systematic Botany and Vegetable Physiology. 8vo. pp. 555.

IV. Manual of the Botany of the Northern United States, including Virginia, Kentucky, etc.
8vo. pp. 636.

V. Same as IV., with the Mosses and Liverworts added, illustrated by Engravings, pp. 739.

VI. Same as IV., with II. bound up with it. pp. 872.

The first-named of these books is a new candidate for public favor; the others are revised
and improved editions of books which have already been favorably received. We have sometimes
thought that the popularity of a school-book is in inverse proportion to its merits, and are
glad to learn that five editions of Dr. Gray's "Structural and Systematic Botany" are witnesses
against the truth of this assumption. No man can deny that Dr. Gray's books are all of the
highest order of merit. The accuracy and extent of his scholarship are manifest on every page,--a
scholarship consisting not merely in an extensive acquaintance with the works of other botanists,
but in a careful confirmation of their results, and in additions to their knowledge, by an
observation of Nature for himself. His clearness of style is an equally valuable characteristic,
making the reader sure that he understands Dr. Gray, and that Dr. Gray understands the subject.
In the "Manual" this clearness of style extends to the judicious selection of distinctive marks,
whereby allied species may be distinguished from each other. Even the most difficult genera
of golden-rods, asters, and grasses become intelligible in this manual; and many a less difficult
genus which puzzled our boyhood, with Beck's, Eaton's, and Pursh's manuals, became so plain
in Gray, that we cannot now imagine where was the difficulty. The extent of the field which
Gray's Manual covers prevents him, of course, from giving such lifelike descriptions of plants
as may be found in Dr. Bigelow's "Plants of Boston and its Vicinity," or such minute word-daguerreotypes
as those in Mr. Emerson's "Trees of Massachusetts,"--books which no New England student of
botany can afford to be without; but, on the other hand, the description of each species, aided
by typographical devices of Italics, etc., is sufficient for any intelligent observer to identify
a specimen. The exquisite engravings, illustrating the genera of Ferns, Hepaticæ, and Mosses,
are also a great assistance.

The volume which we have marked III. is the fifth revised edition of the "Botanical Text-Book."
It contains a complete, although concise, sketch of Structural Botany and Vegetable Physiology,
and a birds'-eye view of the whole vegetable kingdom in its subdivision into families, illustrated
by over thirteen hundred engravings on wood. It has become a standard of botany, wherever our
language is read.

For those who do not wish to pursue the study so far, the "First Lessons" is one of the most
happily arranged and happily written scientific text-books ever published, and is illustrated
by three hundred and sixty well-executed wood-cuts. This takes scholars of thirteen or fourteen
years of age far enough into the recesses of the science for them to see its beauties, and
to learn the passwords which shall admit them to all its hidden and inexhaustible treasures.
It goes over substantially the same ground that is covered by the volume we have marked III.,
but in simpler language and with much less detail; and closes with clear practical directions
how to collect specimens and make an herbarium.

The first book is intended for children of ten or twelve years old, at home or in school. We
hail it as a remarkably successful effort of a truly learned man to write a book actually adapted
to young children. While all teachers, and writers upon education, insist on the importance
of having a child's first impressions such as shall not need to be afterwards corrected, and
such as shall attract the child towards the study to which it is introduced, our elementary
books have usually sinned in one or both these points. They are either dry and repulsive, or
else vague and incorrect;--frequently have both faults. But the child is here told "how plants
grow" in a very pleasant manner, with neat and pretty pictures to illustrate the words, by
one whose thorough knowledge and perspicuity of style prevent him from ever giving a wrong
impression. The "Popular Flora" which is appended, contains a description of about one hundred
families of the most common cultivated and wild plants, and of the most familiar genera and
species in each family. The English names are in all cases put in the foreground in bold type,--while
the Latin names stand modestly back, half hidden in parentheses and Italics; and these English
names are in general very well selected,--although we think that when two or three English
names are given to one plant, or one name to several plants, Dr. Gray ought to indicate which
name he prefers. He allows "Dogwood" to stand without rebuke for the poison sumac, as well
as for the flowering cornel; and gives "Winterberry" and "Black Alder" without comment to Prinos
verticellata. A word of preference on his part might do something towards reforming and simplifying
the popular nomenclature, and this child's manual is the place to utter that word. We think
also that in a second edition of this Popular Flora it would be well to give a popular description
of a few of the most beautiful flowers belonging to those families which are too difficult
for the child properly to analyze. Thus, Arethusa, Cypripedium, Pogonia, Calopogon, Spiranthes,
Festuca, Osmunda, Onoclea, Lycopodium, Polytrichum, Bryum, Marchantia, Usnea, Parmelia, Cladonia,
Agaricus, Chondrus, and perhaps a few other genera, furnish plants so familiar and so striking
that a child will be sure to inquire concerning them, and a general description could easily
be framed in a few words which could not mislead him concerning them.

In writing for children, Dr. Gray seems to have put on a new nature, in which we have a much
fuller sympathy with him than we have ever had in reading his larger books. We do not like
that cold English common sense which seems reluctant to admit any truth in the higher regions
of thought; and we confess, that, until we had read this little child's book, "How Plants Grow,"
we had always suspected Dr. Gray of leaning towards that old error, so finely exposed by Agassiz
in zoölogy, of considering genera, families, etc., as divisions made by human skill, for human
convenience,--instead of as divisions belonging to the Creator's plan, as yet but partially
understood by human students.

We hope that the appearance of this masterly little book, so finely adapted to the child's
understanding, may have the effect of introducing botany into the common schools. The natural
taste of children for flowers indicates clearly the propriety and utility of giving them lessons
upon botany in their earliest years. Go into any of our New England country-schools at this
season of the year, and you will find a bouquet of wild flowers on the teacher's desk. Take
it up and separate it,--show each flower to the school, tell its name, and its relationship
to other and more familiar cultivated flowers, the characteristic sensible properties of its
family, etc.,--and you will find the younger scholars your most attentive listeners. And if
any practical man ask, What is the use of the younger scholars learning anything about wild
flowers, which the cultivation of the country may soon render extinct, and which are but weeds
at best?--there are two sufficient answers ready: first, that all truth is divine, and that
the workmanship of infinite skill is beautiful and worthy of the eyes which may behold it;
secondly, that no mental discipline is better adapted for the young mind than this learning
how to distinguish plants. No more striking deficiency is observable, in most men, than the
lack of a power to observe closely and with accuracy. The general inaccuracy of testimony,
usually ascribed to inaccuracy of memory, is in fact to be attributed to inaccuracy of observation.
In like manner, a large proportion of popular errors of judgment spring from an imperfect perception
of the data on which the true conclusions should be founded. The best remedy for this lack
of clear perceptions would evidently be the cultivation of those habits of close observation
and nice discrimination necessary in a successful naturalist.