So saying, the voice grew still: the leaden weight which had pressed upon my eyelids was lifted
off: I awoke.

Filled with reveries of the past--my eyes closed to everything without--sleep had indeed overtaken
me as I sat listening to the old church-clock. But my vision was not all a vision: my dream-children
came not without their teaching. If they had been called up in folly, yet in their going did
they leave behind a lesson of wisdom.

The morning dawned--the blessed Christmas-morning! With it came my good and dutiful, my real
life--children. When they were all assembled round me, and when, subdued and thoughtful beneath
the tender and gracious associations of the day, each in turn ministered, reverently and lovingly,
to the old mother's need of body and of soul, my heart was melted within me. Blessed, indeed,
was I in a lot full to overflowing of all the good gifts which a wise and merciful Maker could
lavish upon his erring and craving creature. I stood reproved. I felt humbled to think that
I should ever for a moment have indulged one idle or restless longing for the restoration of
that past which had done its appointed work, and out of which so gracious a present had arisen.
One idea impressed me strongly: I could not but feel that had the craving of my soul been answered
in reality, as my dream had foreshadowed; and had the wise and beneficent order of nature been
disturbed and distorted from its just relations, how fearful would have been the result! Here,
in my green old age, I stood amongst a new generation, honoured for what I was, beloved for
what I had been. What if, at some mortal wish in some freak of nature, the form which I now
bore were for ever to remain before the eyes of my children! Were such a thing to befall, how
would their souls ever be lifted upward to the contemplation of that higher state of being
into which it is my hope soon to pass when the hand which guided me hither shall beckon me
hence? At the thought my heart was chastened. Never since that night have I indulged in any
one wish framed in opposition to nature's laws. Now I find my dream-children in the present;
and to the past I yield willingly all things which are its own--among the rest, the Lost Ages.

INFLUENCES OF THE RAILWAY SYSTEM.

While there are many machines which contribute much more directly to the rapid accumulation
of wealth in the persons of individuals, than does the railway locomotive, there is probably
none which tends more to enrich a community. Unlike most other mechanical contrivances for
the abridgment of labour, the railway locomotive unites in the effects which it produces the
elements of social as well as commercial improvement. Like the steamship, the railway is cosmopolitan
in its character. The range of its operations may be as extensive as the globe itself; and
throughout that sphere of activity, be it what it may, the locomotive engine is scattering
thickly the seeds of civilisation, as well as of wealth.

By the application of steam as a motive agent an immense saving has been effected in the outlay
required to be made in producing a given result in locomotion. This is the combined product
of two causes. Such perfection has been attained in the construction of machinery, that by
the aid of steam there can thence be obtained a continuity, combined with a rapidity of motion,
which far exceeds what can be produced by any other means at present known to us. The fleetest
racer equipped for speed alone, cannot equal, even for a single mile, the rate at which the
locomotive engine, dragging after it a load of eighty tons, can, for hours together, be driven
with ease and safety along its iron path. And this twofold result can be secured at a comparatively
small cost. Coal, iron, wood--substances all to be easily obtained in nearly every quarter
of the globe--can be, and daily are, fashioned into working agents not merely fleeter, stronger,
and more docile than any endowed with animal life, but agents likewise which it is far less
costly to sustain in active usefulness. The food, medicines, and attention which animal life
demands, form very serious items of expense in the case of beasts of burden, and so very materially
impair their utility. It is otherwise with the locomotive engine. Money, ingenuity, and toil
require undoubtedly to be expended in its original construction, attention and care must be
given to avert or repair accident, and food of its own peculiar kind it does unquestionably
consume; yet when all the original and working expenses of a locomotive are summed up, it is
found that, compared with the income it produces, it is the cheapest of all motive agents.

No doubt the items of railway expenditure now mentioned do not nearly exhaust the amount of
money required in their construction. In addition to expensive engines, there require carriages
to be supplied for the transport of goods and passengers, houses and sheds to be built for
their temporary accommodation, salaries to be paid for management and service; and in addition
to all this, there must further be expended in the construction of the line itself sums far
greater in amount than those spent in the formation and repair of roads and highways. All this
is true; but in estimating the comparative costliness of the old and new methods of land-locomotion,
regard must be had to the amount of their produce as well as of their outlay; and an opinion
regarding their respective merits, in an economical point of view, must be formed by striking
a balance between these two sides of the account. The result of such a comparison proves that
in point of economy, not less than of speed and endurance, railways take precedence over all
other known means of locomotion. This combined result of rapidity and cheapness of transit
produces a double effect upon a mercantile community: it at once enables merchants to realise
the fruits of a given speculation more quickly, which is nothing else than transacting more
business in a shorter period than before; and it also enables them to do this increased amount
of business with a smaller amount of actual outlay--that is, to extend with safety and profit
the field of their operations beyond those boundaries which prudence formerly marked out as
the proper limits of speculation.

When we consider the amount of travelling within the island which is requisite for carrying
on the mercantile and general business of the country, and the double saving, therefore, of
time on the one hand, and of money on the other, which is effected by means of railways, we
cannot fail to perceive that even did this new system of locomotion economise time and labour
in no other way than this alone, its effects upon commercial transactions and on business generally
would be immense. But when we reflect that this system is exerting the very same influence
upon trade--and in a much higher degree, so far as the outlay of money is concerned--in reference
to the carriage of goods, as in regard to that of passengers, we then come to comprehend in
some measure how fertile the railway locomotive is in the production of the fruits of industry.

Another commercial effect of the railway system has been to equalise the value of land, and
promote the cultivation of those districts of a country which lie considerably removed from
large towns. Every one knows that distance from market forms, as regards the cultivation of
many vegetable and animal productions, a very serious drawback. Hence it arises that lands
lying immediately around large cities bring a far larger price than portions of ground of equal
extent and fertility would do situated at a greater distance. This is peculiarly the case with
kitchen-gardens, and pasture-land suited for the purposes of fattening cattle, or feeding such
as are required for the dairy. In all these cases, and others which might be mentioned, the
performance of a long journey affects very injuriously the quality and value of the several
articles, and hence the demand for farms and fields not exposed to this drawback has naturally
raised their value. Now railways, as they abridge space by means of speed, have had a tendency
to increase the value of pasture and garden ground lying at, comparatively speaking, a very
great distance around cities. It is now no unusual thing for the inhabitants of cities such
as London, Liverpool, and Manchester, to use at breakfast milk or cream which has travelled
thirty or forty miles the very morning it is consumed, and at dinner to partake of vegetables
whose place of growth was more than a hundred miles removed from the stall at which they were sold.

The railway system has had a marked effect upon the state of the money-market of the commercial
world in general, and of this country in particular. From the successful experiment made in
1830 in steam locomotion between Liverpool and Manchester, this new method of transit has been
developing itself with a rapidity to which no parallel is to be found in the history of mercantile
enterprise. Keeping out of view entirely the large sums which were recklessly squandered during
the railway mania in mere gambling transactions and bubble schemes, there has been actually
sunk in the construction and working of lines up to the present time more than L.200,000,000
sterling. Before railways were called into existence, by far the larger portion of this enormous
capital was divided into a great number of comparatively small sums, invested in a corresponding
number of different speculations. From causes which it would be easy, but foreign to our present
purpose, to explain, the profits arising from these various speculations were not only in the
aggregate larger than those hitherto derived from railways, but the former speculations or
investments being more temporary and convertible in their nature, secured to the parties engaging
in them a far greater command over the capital employed in them. By diverting, as the railway
system has done, so much money from the ordinary channels of mercantile enterprise, in which
large profits were made, and--what is of more importance to the present remarks--when that
money was well within the command and subject to the recall of its owners; and by taking, so
to speak, and locking it up in a repository which could not be opened, the circulating medium
of exchange soon became a scarce commodity to those who but lately had possessed it in abundance.

