This Edition is Strictly Limited to One Thousand Numbered Copies for Mature Collectors of Literary
Curiosa No. 899.

French and Oriental Love in a Harem

by

MARIO UCHARD

with Decorations by Paul Avril

Privately Issued by FALSTAFF PRESS NEW YORK

CHAPTER I.

Château de Férouzat, ..., 18...

No indeed, my dear Louis, I am neither dead nor ruined, nor have I turned pirate, trappist,
or rural guard, as you might imagine in order to explain my silence these four months since
I last appeared at your illustrious studio. No, you witty giber, my fabulous heritage has not
taken wings! I am dwelling neither in China on the Blue River, nor in Red Oceania, nor in White
Lapland. My yacht, built of teak, still lies in harbour, and is not swaying me over the vasty
deep. It is no good your spinning out laborious and far-fetched hyperboles on the subject of
my uncle's will: your ironical shafts all miss the mark. My uncle's will surpasses the most
astonishing feat of its kind ever accomplished by notary's pen; and your poor imagination could
not invent, or come anywhere near inventing, such remarkable adventures as those into which
this registered document has led me.

First of all, in order that your feeble intellect may be enabled to rise to the level of the
subject, I must give you some description of "the Corsair," as you called him after you met
him in Paris last winter; for it is only by comprehending the peculiarities of his life and
character that you can ever hope to understand my adventures.

Unfortunately, at this very point, a considerable difficulty arises, for my uncle still remains
and always will remain a sort of legendary personage. Born at Marseilles, he was left an orphan
at about the age of fourteen, alone in the world with one little sister still in the cradle,
whom he brought up, and who subsequently became my mother: hence his tender regard for me.
Nevertheless, and notwithstanding the fact that we two constituted the whole family, I only
saw him during the intervals on shore of his sea-faring life. Endowed with truly remarkable
qualities and with an energy that recognized no obstacles, he was the best fellow in the world,
as you must have observed for yourself; but certainly he was also, from what I know of him,
a most original character. I don't believe that in the course of his eventful career, he ever
did a single act like other men, unless, may be, in the getting of children--yet even these
were only his "god-children." He has left fourteen in the Department of Le Gard, scattered
over the different estates on which he lived by turns after he had quitted the East; and we
may well believe he would not have stopped short at that number, but that four months ago,
as he was returning from the South Pole, he happened to die of a sunstroke, at the age of sixty-three.
This last touch completes the picture of his life. As to his history, all that is known of
it is confined to the following facts:

At the age of twenty-two my uncle turned Turk, from political conviction. This happened under
the Bourbons. The character of his services in Turkey during the contests between Mehemet Ali
and the Sultan was never very clear, and I fancy he was rather muddled about them himself,
for he served both these princes by turns with equal courage and equal devotion. As it happened,
he was on the side of Ibrahim at the time that the latter defeated the Turks at the battle
of Konieh; but being carried away in that desperate charge which he himself led, and which
decided the victory, my unfortunate uncle suffered the disgrace of falling wounded into the
hands of the vanquished party. Being a prisoner to Kurchid-Pasha, and his wound having soon
healed, he was expecting to be impaled, when, to his great joy, his punishment was commuted
to that of the galleys. There he remained three years without succeeding in effecting his escape,
when one fine day he found his services in request just at the right time by the Sultan, who
appointed him Pasha, giving him a command in the Syrian wars. What circumstance was it that
cut short his political career? How was it that he obtained from the Pope the title of Count
of the Holy Empire? Nobody knows.

All that is certain is that Barbassou-Pasha, tired of his honours and having returned two years
since to settle down in Provence, started off one morning for Africa, on a ship that he had
bought at Toulon. Henceforth he devoted himself to the spice trade.

It was after one of these voyages that he published his celebrated ontological monograph upon
the negro races, a work which created some stir and gained for him a most flattering report
from the Academy.

These leading events of his Odyssey being known, the more private facts and deeds of the life
of Barbassou-Pasha are lost in obscurity. As for his physical characteristics, you will remember
the great Marseillais six-foot high, with sinewy frame and muscles of steel; your mind's eye
can picture still the formidable, bearded face, the savage and terrible eye, the rough voice,
the complete type in short of "the pirate at his ease," as you used to say, when laughing sometimes
at his quiet humour. After all, an easy-going soul, and the best of uncles!

As for my own recollections, so far back as they go, the following is all I have ever known
of him. Being continually at sea, he had placed me at school quite young. One year, while at
his château at Férouzat, he sent for me during the holidays. I was six years old, and saw him
for the first time. He held me up in his arms to examine my face and features, then turning
me gently round in the air, he felt my sides, after which--satisfied, no doubt, as to my build--he
put me down again with great care, as if afraid of breaking me.

"Kiss your aunt!" he said.

I obeyed him.

My aunt at that time was a very handsome young woman of twenty-two to twenty-four, a brunette
with great black, almond-shaped eyes, and fine features on a perfect oval face. She placed
me on her knees and covered me with kisses, lavishing on me the most tender expressions, among
which she mingled words of a foreign language which sounded like music, so sweet and harmonious
was her voice. I conceived a great affection for her. My uncle let me do just as I liked, and
allowed no hindrances to be put in my way. Thus it happened that at the end of my holidays
I did not want to return to school again, and should certainly have succeeded in getting my
way, if it had not been that Barbassou-Pasha's ship was waiting for him at Toulon.

You may imagine with what joy I returned to Férouzat the next year. My uncle welcomed me with
the same delight, and betook himself to the same examination of my physical structure. When
his anxieties were satisfied, he said to me--

"Kiss your aunt!"

I kissed my aunt: but, as I kissed her, I was rather surprised to find her very much altered.
She had become fair and pink-complexioned. A certain firm and youthful plumpness, which suited
her remarkably well, gave her the appearance of a girl of eighteen. Being more bashful than
at our former interview, she tendered me her fresh cheeks with a blush. I noticed also that
her accent had undergone a modification, and now very much resembled the accent of one of my
school-fellows who was Dutch. As I expressed my surprise at these changes, my uncle informed
me that they had just returned from Java. This explanation sufficed for me, I did not ask any
more questions, and henceforth I accustomed myself every year to the various metamorphoses
of my aunt. The metamorphosis which pleased me the least was that which she contracted after
a voyage to Bourbon, from which she returned a mulattress, but without ceasing still to be
remarkably handsome. My uncle, it should be mentioned, was always very good to her, and I have
never known a happier household.

Unfortunately Barbassou-Pasha, being engaged in important affairs, stayed away three years,
and when I returned to Férouzat, he kissed me and received me by himself. When I asked after
my aunt, he told me that he was a widower. As this misfortune did not appear to affect him
very seriously, I made up my mind to treat it with the same indifference that he did.

Since that time I never saw any woman at the château, except once in an isolated part of the
park, where I met two shadowy beings, closely and mysteriously veiled. They were taking a walk,
accompanied by an old fellow of singular aspect, clothed in a long robe with a tarbouch on
his head, who greatly excited my curiosity. My uncle told me that this was His Excellency,
Mohammed-Azis, one of his friends at Constantinople, whom he had taken in with his family after
they had undergone persecution at the hands of the Sultan. He lodged him in another little
château adjoining Férouzat, in order that they might be able to live more comfortably in Turkish
style: those young persons were two of his daughters.

After that year, I never again stayed in Provence: for my uncle, having settled in China and
Japan, was absent five years, and my only relations with him were through his banker at Paris,
with whom I enjoyed that solid and unlimited credit which you envied so much, and of which
I availed myself with such easy grace and in such a superbly reckless spirit.

You remember that I received a few months ago a letter announcing this sudden misfortune, and
requesting my immediate presence at Férouzat, to remove the seals and open the will: my poor
uncle had died in Abyssinia.

Well, the day after my arrival, I had only just got up, when Féraudet, the notary, was announced.
He came in, literally armed with documents. I did not want to act like a greedy heir, but rather
to put off for a few days all the most material questions; my notary, however, informed me
that "there were certain clauses in the will which demanded an immediate examination." My uncle
had charged me, he said, with numerous trusts and legacies "for the benefit of his god-children
and of other parties living a long distance off." All this was uttered in a mournful tone suited
to the occasion, and at the same time with the manner of a person aware that he was the bearer
of an extraordinary document, and preparing me for its effect. Finally he opened the will,
which was worded as follows:

"Château de Férouzat, ... 18..

"I, the undersigned, Claude-Anatole-Gratien Barbassou, Count of Monteclaro, do hereby declare
that I elect and designate as my universal legatee and the sole inheritor of my property: of
all my real and personal estate, and all that I am entitled to of every description soever,
such as ..., &c.: my nephew Jérôme André de Peyrade, the son of my sister: And I hereby command
him to discharge the following legacies:

"To my much-beloved wife and legitimate spouse, Lia Rachel Euphrosine Ben-Lévy, milliner, of
Constantinople, and dwelling there in the suburb of Péra, First, a sum of four thousand five
hundred francs, which I have agreed by contract to pay her; Second, my house at Péra, in which
she dwells, with all the appendages and appurtenances thereof; and Third, a sum of twelve thousand
francs, to be distributed by her, as it may please her, among the different children whom she
has by me.

"Likewise, to my much-beloved wife and legitimate spouse, Sophia Eudoxia, Countess of Monteclaro
(whose maiden name is De Cornalis), dwelling at Corfu: First, a sum of five hundred thousand
francs, which I have agreed by contract to pay her; Second, the clock and the Dresden china,
which stand on my mantle-piece; Third, 'The Virgin,' by Perugino, in my drawing-room at Férouzat.

"Likewise, to my much-beloved wife and legitimate spouse, Marie Gretchen Van Cloth, dwelling
at Amsterdam: First, a sum of twenty thousand francs, which I have agreed by contract to pay
her; Second, a sum of sixty thousand francs, to be distributed by her, as it may please her,
among the different children whom she has by me; Third, my dinner-service in Delph, known as
No. 3; Fourth, a barrel-organ, set with four of Haydn's symphonies.

"Likewise, to my much-beloved wife and legitimate spouse, Marie Louise Antoinette Cora de La
Pescade, dwelling at Les Grands Palmiers (Ile Bourbon), my plantation upon which she lives,
including the annexes of Le Grand Morne.

"Likewise, to my much-beloved wife and legitimate spouse, Anita Josepha Christina de Postero,
dwelling at Cadiz: First, a sum of twelve thousand francs; which I have agreed by contract
to pay her; Second, my pardon for her little adventure with my lieutenant Jean Bonaffé."

If some very precise person should seek to insinuate his criticisms upon my uncle's matrimonial
principles, my reply would be that Barbassou-Pasha was a Turk and a Mussulman, and that consequently
he can only be praised for having so faithfully obeyed the Laws of the Prophet--laws which
permitted him to indulge in all this hymeneal luxury without in the least degree outraging
the social proprieties--and for having in this matter piously fulfilled a religious duty, which
his premature death alone, so far as we can judge, has hindered him from accomplishing with
greater fervour. I trust that the God of the Faithful will at least give him credit for his
efforts.

Having said so much on behalf of a memory which is dear to me, and having enumerated the chief
clauses of the will, I may add in a few words that, after the payment of my uncle's matrimonial
donations, and the various legacies to his "god-children," with those to his sailors in addition,
there remained for me about thirty-seven million francs.

"But, these children of my uncle's?" said I.

"Oh, sir! everything is in order! The Turkish law not recognising marriages contracted abroad
with unbelievers, excepting in the case of certain prescribed formalities which your uncle
happens to have neglected to go through, it results that his will expresses his deliberate
intentions. Moreover, he had during his lifetime provided for the future of all his people."

I listened with admiration.

"So much for the legal dispositions of the will, sir," said the notary, when he had finished
reading it out.

"Now I have a sealed letter to hand to you, which your uncle charged me to give after his death
to you alone. I was instructed in the case of your death preceding his, to destroy it without
acquainting myself with its purport. You will understand, therefore, that I know nothing of
its contents, which are for you only to read. Have the kindness, please, to sign this receipt,
declaring that you find the seals unbroken, and that I have left it in your possession."

He presented a paper, which I read and signed.

"Is that all?" I asked.

"Not quite, sir," he replied, as he took another package out of his pocket. "Here is a document
similarly sealed which was addressed to me. I was only to open it in the case of your uncle's
will becoming null and void through your death preceding his. This document, he told me, would
then give effect to his final wishes. Your presence being duly established, my formal written
instructions are to burn this document, now rendered useless and purposeless, before your eyes."

Again he made me attest that the seals were untampered with, and taking up a candle from the
writing-table and lighting it, he forthwith committed to the flames this secret document the
provisions of which we were not to know. He then departed.

When left alone, and still affected by these lively recollections of my poor uncle, I began
to think of the letter which the notary had left with me. I divined some mystery in it, and
had a vague presentiment that it would contain a decree of my destiny. This last message from
him, coming as it were from the tomb, revived in my heart the grief which had hardly yet been
allayed. At last, trembling all the while, I tore open the envelope. These were its contents:--

"My Dear Boy,

"When you read this, I shall have done with this world. Please me by not giving way too much
to your grief, and act like a man! You know my ideas about death: I have never allowed myself
to be prejudiced into regarding it as an evil, convinced as I have been, that it is nothing
but the transition which leads us to a superior state of existence. Adopt this view, and do
not cry over me like a child. I have lived my life; now it is your turn. My desire is, that
this old friend of yours should be cherished in your memory: you shall join him with you in
your happiness, by believing that he takes part in it.

"Now let us have a talk.

"I leave you all my property, desiring to create no business complications for you: my will
is drawn up in proper form, and you will enter into possession of your inheritance, which,
you may rest assured, is a pretty handsome one. There is, however, one last wish of mine for
the fulfilment of which I rely simply upon your affection, feeling sure that between us there
is no need of more complicated provisions for ensuring its execution.

"I have a daughter, who has always shared with you my dearest affections. If I have kept this
second paternity a secret from you, I have done so because circumstances might occur which
would render useless the revelation which I am now approaching. My daughter had a legal father
who had the right to reclaim her when sixteen years of age; she is free now, her legal father
is dead, she will soon be seventeen, and I entrust her to your charge. Her name is Anna Campbell,
she lives at Paris at the Convent of Les Oiseaux, where she is completing her education. Her
only relation is an aunt, her mother's sister, Madame Saulnier by name, who lives at No. 20,
Rue Barbet de Jony. It will be a sufficient introduction for you to call on this lady and tell
her your name. She is aware that I have appointed you moral guardian to my daughter, and that
it is you who will take my place. In short, she knows all my intentions.

"I underline these words, for they sum up my fondest aspirations. I have brought up Anna with
the view of making her your wife, and thus dividing my fortune between you; and I rely upon
you to carry out this arrangement. If marriage is for a man but a small matter, it is for a
woman the most serious event in life. With you, I am confident that the dear girl will never
be unhappy, and that is the thing of most importance. If I never return from this last voyage,
you will have plenty of time to enjoy your bachelor's life; but I count upon your friendship
to render me this little service by marrying her when the right time arrives. At present she
is scarcely full-grown, and I think it will be best for you to wait one or two years. I can
assure you her mother had a fine figure. You will find their portraits in one of the velvet
frames in the drawer of my desk. (Don't make a mistake: it is the one numbered 9.)

"Now that this matter is settled, it only remains for me to give you one last injunction. If
Férandet has followed my instructions, as I suppose, he will have burnt a paper in your presence.
This was a second will, by which my daughter Anna Campbell would have been appointed my universal
legatee, had you not been living. So long as all happened in the right order, you surviving
me, you will understand I should not have wished to complicate your affairs, by leaving you
confronted with a lot of legal formalities and intricacies. Such would be the consequence of
a female minor who is a foreigner inheriting jointly with you: this would have plunged you
into a veritable mire of technicalities, restrictions, registrations, and goodness knows what.
Nevertheless, it is necessary to provide fully for the possibility of an accident arising to
you before your marriage with Anna. Our property would go in that case to collaterals ... and
God only knows from how many quarters of the world these would not be forthcoming! As I wish
my fortune to remain with my children, it is indispensable that you should not forget to make
testamentary dispositions in favour of your cousin, so that the whole property may go to her
in the event of your death, without any more dispute than there has been in your own case.
I leave this matter in your hands. You will find at my bankers all the indications of surnames,
Christian names, and descriptions which you will require to enumerate, on the first page of
my private ledger, where the account which was opened for her commences, and yours also, forming
a separate banking account for you two. Madame Saulnier is accustomed to draw what is required
for her: therefore, until your marriage, it is unnecessary for you to occupy yourself with
this detail--all you have to do is to confirm her credit.

"Now that we have settled this matter, my dear boy, go ahead! I do not need, I am sure, to
remind you to think occasionally of your old uncle: I know you well, and that satisfies me.
I thank you for what you have been to me, and bless you from the bottom of my heart!

"Come, don't give way, old fellow: I am in Heaven, my soul is free and rejoicing in the glories
of the Infinite. Is there anything in this for you to mourn over? Farewell."

After reading this letter, my dear Louis, need I tell you that I did the contrary to what my
poor uncle bade me, and that I gave way to my grief. The tears streamed down my cheeks, my
heart was breaking, and I could no longer see this last word, "Farewell," as I pressed the
letter to my lips.

Such a mixture of tenderness and elevation of tone, such touching solicitude to console my
grief, such boundless confidence in my love and fidelity! I felt crushed with my grief, proud
only to think that I was worthy of the generosity with which this noble-hearted man was overwhelming
me, prodigal as a father in his kindness. It seemed to me at that moment that I had never loved
him enough, and the grief at his loss mingled itself with something like remorse. As if he
were able hear me, I swore to him that I would live for the accomplishment of his wishes: from
the depths of my soul, indeed, I felt certain that he saw me.

When the flow of my tears had ceased, I did not want to tarry a moment in the accomplishment
of his last behests. I ran to his bed-chamber, opened his desk, and found the two portraits.
One, a valuable miniature, represents a woman of twenty-five, the other is a photograph of
Anna Campbell at the age of fifteen. Although not so pretty as her mother, perhaps, she has
a charming childlike face; the poor little thing felt uncomfortable, no doubt, when they made
her sit, for her expression is rather sulky and unnatural. Still she gives promise of being
attractive when she has passed the awkward age. I felt myself suddenly possessed by a sentiment
of affection for this unknown cousin, whose guardian I had become and whose husband I am to
be. Upon this cold picture I repeated to my uncle the oath to obey his wishes; then, taking
up a pen, I wrote a will appointing Anna Campbell the universal legatee of all the property
which my uncle left us.

But one part of my inheritance, the most remarkable and the least expected, was at present
unknown either to the notary or to myself.

I don't wish to make myself out better than I really am, my dear Louis: I must declare, nevertheless,
that in spite of the very natural bewilderment which I felt on finding myself the owner of
such a fortune, my first thought, when once I had disposed of the legal matters, was to pay
a tribute of mournful regrets to the memory of my poor uncle. I should have considered it base
ingratitude, not to say impiety on my part, to have shown myself too eager to enjoy the wealth
bequeathed to me by so generous a benefactor. His loss really left a cruel void in my heart.
I decided, therefore, at least to live a few months at Férouzat. I wrote immediately to the
aunt of Anna Campbell, to express my resolution to fulfil the wishes of my second father, begging
her to dispose of my services in every way as those of a protector and friend ready to respond
to every appeal. Four days afterwards, I received from her a most cordial and elegantly-worded
letter. She assured me of her confidence in all the good accounts which my uncle had given
of me; and she gave me news of my fiancée, "who for one who is still only a child, promises
already to develop into an accomplished woman."

Having discharged these conventional duties, I shut myself up in my retreat, and set to work.

For me to say that my retirement was not more distracted than I would have desired, might perhaps
be called a dangerous assertion; but what could I do? Was it not my duty to acquaint myself
with all that my uncle bequeathed to me? And the Lord knows what marvels my château of Férouzat
contained! Every day I made some fresh discovery in rooms full of curious furniture and antiquities
of all ages and of all countries. Barbassou-Pasha was a born buyer of valuable objects, and
the furniture was crammed with rich draperies, hangings, costumes, and objects of art or curios:
my steward himself could not enumerate them all.

But the most delightful of all these marvels is certainly Kasre-el-Nouzha, my neighbouring
property. Kasre-el-Nouzha was a Turkish fancy of my uncle's. These three Arabic words correspond
to the Spanish Buen-Retiro; or, literally translated, they signify "Castle of Pleasures." This
was the retreat, separated only by a party-wall from Férouzat, that was formerly inhabited
by the exiled minister who had fled from the persecutions of the Sultan. Picture to yourself,
hidden in a great park whose umbrageous foliage concealed it from view, a delightful palace
of the purest Oriental architecture, surrounded by gardens, with flowering shrubs covered with
a wealth of blossoms, standing in the midst of green lawns, a sort of Vale of Tempé transplanted,
one might imagine, from the East. My uncle Barbassou, conscientious architect that he was,
had copied the plan from one of the residences of the King of Kashmir. In the interior of the
Kasre you might fancy yourself in the house of some grandee of Stamboul or of Bagdad. Luxuries,
ornaments, furniture, and general domestic arrangements, have all been studied with the taste
of an artist and the exactitude of an archæologist. At the same time European comforts are
gratefully mingled with Turkish simplicity. The silken tapestries of Persia, the carpets of
Smyrna with those harmonious hues which seem to be borrowed from the sun, the capacious divans,
the bath-rooms, and the stores, all contribute in short to the completeness of an establishment,
suitable to a Pasha residing under the sky of Provence. A little door in the park-wall gives
access to this oasis. As you may guess, I passed many an hour there, and I dreamt dreams of
"The Thousand and One Nights."

All this time I had never interrupted my labours; for you need not suppose that my nabob's
fortune could make me forgetful of my inclinations towards science. In the midst of my numerous
follies, as you know very well, and in spite of the distractions of the more or less dissipated
life which I have led up to my present happy age of twenty-six, I have always preserved my
love of study, which fills up those hours of forced respite that even the pleasures of the
world leave to every man who is conscious of a brain. The Polytechnic School, and the search
for x, in which my uncle trained me, developed very inquisitive instincts in me. I ended by
acquiring a taste for transcendental ideas. This taste is at least worth as much as that for
angling. For my part, I confess that I class among the molluscs men who, being their own masters,
content themselves with eating, drinking, and sleeping, without performing any intellectual
labour. This is why you call me "the savant."

I worked away, then, at my book with a veritable enthusiasm, and my "Essay upon the Origin
of Sensation" had extended to several long chapters, when the critical event occurred which
I have undertaken to relate to you.

I had lived thus all alone for two weeks. One evening, on my return from Arles, where I had
been spending a couple of days upon some business, I was informed that His Excellency, Mohammed-Azis,
the old friend of my uncle, whom I remembered to have seen on one occasion, had arrived at
the château the evening before, not having heard of the death of Barbassou-Pasha. I must admit
that this news gave me at the time very little pleasure; but in memory of my dear departed
uncle, I could not but give his friend the welcome he expected. I was told that His Excellency
had gone straight to his quarters at Kasre-el-Nouzha, where he was accustomed to dwell. I hastened
to send my respects to him, begging him to let me know if he would receive me. He sent word
that he was at my disposition and waiting for me. I therefore set off at once to call upon him.

I found Mohammed-Azis on his door-step. Gravely and sadly he received me with a salute, the
respectful manner of which embarrassed me somewhat, coming from a man of his age. He showed
me into the drawing-room, in each of the four corners of which bubbled a little fountain of
perfumed water, in small basins of alabaster garnished with flowers. He made me sit down on
the divan covered with a splendid silk material, and which, very broad and very deep, and furnished
with numerous cushions, extends round the entire room. When seated, I commenced uttering a
few phrases of condolence, but he replied to me in Turkish.

This mode of conversing had its difficulties, so he, seeing that I could not understand him,
started off into a Sabir or Italianised French, pronounced in an accent which I will not attempt
to describe.

"Povera Eccellenza Barbassou-Pacha!--finito--morto?"

I replied in Italian, which he spoke indifferently well. We thus managed to get along.

I then related to him the accident which had brought about the death of Barbassou, my uncle
and his friend. He listened to me with a greatly distressed air.

"Dunque voi signor padrone?" he replied, uneasily; "voi heritare di tutto?--ordinare?--commandare?"--

"Let me assure you, Your Excellency," I answered, "nothing that concerns you will be changed
by my uncle's death. I shall make it a point of honour to fill his place exactly."

He appeared satisfied with this reply, and breathed freely, like a man relieved of a great
burden. In another minute he asked me if I would like to make the acquaintance of all his people.

"I should be delighted, Your Excellency, if you would present me to your family."

He walked towards the door and summoned them by clapping his hands.

I was expecting to see the wives or daughters of my host appear according to Mussulman custom,
covered up with their triple veils. An exclamation of surprise escaped me when I saw four young
persons enter, dressed in beautiful Oriental costumes, their faces unveiled, and all four endowed
with such glorious beauty and youthful grace that I was, for the moment, fairly dazzled. I
took them for his daughters.

Hesitating and bashful, they stopped a few steps from me. In my bewilderment I could not find
a word to say to them, until after their father had said something to them, they came up to
me, first one, then another, and with shy graces and indescribable charms, each bowed and saluted
me with her hand to her forehead, then took my hand and kissed it.

I must admit that I completely lost my head. I don't know what I stammered out. I believe I
assured them that they and their father would find me, in the absence of my uncle, their respectful
and devoted friend; but, as they did not understand a word of French, my speech was lost upon
them. However that may have been, after a minute or so they were sitting with their legs crossed
on the divan, and all I was anxious about was to prolong my visit as much as possible. Mohammed
told me their charming names. These were, Kondjé-Gul, Hadidjé, Nazli, and Zouhra. He, like
a proud father, was not backward in praising their beauty, and I joined in chorus with him,
and certainly succeeded in flattering him by my enthusiasm regarding them.

Indeed, all four of them were of such striking beauty, and yet so different in type, that you
might have thought them grouped together in order to form the most ravishing picture, their
large dark eyes, sweet, timid, and languishing like the gazelle's, with that Oriental expression
which we do not meet with in these climes; lips which disclosed pearly teeth as they smiled;
and complexions which have been preserved by the veil from the sun's rays, and which--according
to the ancient simile--appeared really to be made up of lilies and roses. In those rich costumes
of silk or of Broussan gauze, with their harmonious colours, revealing the forms of their hips
and of their bosoms, they exhibited attitudes and movements of feline lissomness and exotic
grace, the voluptuous languor of which can only be realised by those who have seen it in Mussulman
women. I imagined myself the hero of an Arabian story, and mad fancies entered my brain.

While I was endeavouring, for appearance's sake, to talk with their father as well as I could,
they, growing tamer by degrees, began to whisper together--now and then came a little burst
of laughter, in which I seemed to detect some mischief. I playfully responded by holding up
my finger to let them know I guessed their thoughts, and again they burst out laughing like
sly children--this going on until, after half an hour or so, quite a nice feeling of familiarity
was established between us; we talked by signs, and our eyes enabled us almost to dispense
with the laborious intervention of Mohammed's interpretations. Moreover, he seemed delighted
to see us frolicking in this way.

In order to teach them my name I pronounced several times the word "André." They understood
and tried in their turn to make me say their names. Hadidjé's was the occasion of much laughter,
by reason of my difficulty in articulating the guttural breathing. Seeing that I could not
manage it, she held me by both hands, her face almost touching mine, and shouted "Hadidjé!"
I repeated it, "Hadidjé!" This was charming and intoxicating. I had to take the same lesson
from each of them; but when it came to the turn of Kondjé-Gul, it was a delirium of joy. By
some chance she let slip a word of Italian. I questioned her in this language, and found she
knew it pretty well. You may imagine my delight! Immediately we overwhelmed each other with
a torrent of questions. Her sisters watched us with looks of amazement.

At this moment a Greek servant came in, followed by two other women, bringing in the dinner
on trays, which they laid upon small low tables of ebony inlaid with mother-of-pearl.

Propriety and good breeding impelled me to take my leave after this very long visit, and I
prepared to do so. Upon this my young friends murmured out a concert of confused words, in
which I seemed to detect regret at my departure. Fortunately His Excellency intervened by inviting
me to stay to dinner with them.

Need I tell you that I accepted!

I sat down on the carpet, as they did, with my legs crossed, and we commenced a delicious banquet.
Champagne was brought in for me, an attention which I appreciated. My place was next to Nazli;
on my left was Kondjé-Gul, and opposite me, Hadidjé and Zouhra. I will not tell you what dishes
were served, my thoughts were set elsewhere.

"How old art thou?" asked Kondjé-Gul, employing in her Italian, which was tinctured with Roumanian,
the Turkish form of address.

"Twenty-six," said I, "and how old art thou?"

"Oh, I shall soon be eighteen." This "thouing" of each other was charming. She then told me
the ages of the others. Hadidjé was the eldest, she was nineteen: Nazli and Zouhra were between
seventeen and eighteen, the age of fresh maturity among the daughters of the East, who ripen
earlier than ours. Our gaiety and the prattle of their voices went on without cessation; but
as they were drinking nothing but water, I said to Kondjé-Gul, thoughtlessly,

"Won't you taste the wine of France?"

At this proposition she gave such a scared little look that the others asked her to explain
what I had said. This caused a great excitement, followed by a discussion in which the father
took part. I was beginning to fear that I had given offence to them, when His Excellency at
last said a few words which seemed to be decisive. Then Kondjé-Gul, blushing all the while,
and hesitating with divine gracefulness, took up my glass and drank--first with a little grimace
like a kitten trying strange food, so droll and amusing was it; then, later on, with an air
of satisfaction so real that all of them burst out laughing.

By Jove, I must say that at this frank abandonment I felt my heart beat just as if her lips
had touched my own in a kiss. Imagine what became of me when Zouhra, Nazli, and Hadidjé held
out their hands all at the same time to claim my glass. They passed round the glass and drank,
and I after them, perturbed by emotions impossible to describe. This unconstraint varied with
bashful reserve, these fascinating scruples, which they overcame one after another, fearing
no doubt to offend me by refusing things which they thought were French customs; all their
little ways in fact stimulated me, ravished me, and yet daunted me at times so much that I
dare no longer brave their looks--although the presence of their father was a sufficient guarantee
of the innocent character of these familiarities.

When the meal was over, the same Greek servants cleared the tables. Night-time arrived and
they lighted the chandeliers. Through the closed shutters there came to us perfumes of myrtle
and lilac. Cigarettes were brought: Zouhra took one, lighted it, and after drawing a few mouthfuls,
offered it to me. I abandoned myself to their caprices.

Now, Louis, can you picture your friend luxuriously reclining on cushions, and surrounded by
these four daughters of Mahomet's Paradise, in their lovely sultana's costumes, frolicking
and prattling, and all four of them so beautiful that I don't know which I should have presented
with the apple if I had been Paris? I assure you, it required an effort to convince myself
that all this was real. After a little while I noticed that Mohammed Azis was no longer present;
but thanks to Kondjé-Gul, who had quite become my interpreter, our conversation became brisk
and general. Hadidjé taught me a Turkish game which is played with flowers, and which I won't
try to describe to you, as I hardly understood it.

If I were to tell you all that happened that evening, I should be relating a story of giddy
madness and intoxication. I taught them in return the game of "hunt the slipper;" you know
it, don't you? We played it as follows: there was a ribbon knotted at both ends, which we held,
sitting on the floor in a circle, and on which slips a ring, which one of the players must
seize in his hands. This, upon my word, finished me up. What laughter, and what merry cries!
Each of them, caught in her turn, chose me of course as her mark. Every moment I found myself
seized and held prisoner in their naked, snowy arms. Upon my soul, it was maddening!

It was nearly midnight when His Excellency returned. I had lost all reckoning of the time;
now I felt I must really make off. While I was getting ready and saying a few words to Kondjé-Gul,
Mohammed Azis spoke to Zouhra, Nazli, and Hadidjé. I fancied that he was questioning them,
and that they replied in the negative. Then he spoke at greater length to Kondjé-Gul; he appeared
to me to be pressing her to give him an account of my conversation with her, and that the result
did not please him. I was annoyed with myself at the thought that, maybe, I had been the cause
of her being reprimanded. At last he certainly ordered them to retire, for they came to me,
one after the other, and each of them, as on entering, bowed to me in a respectful manner,
saluting me with her hand to her forehead, and kissed my hand; after this they went out, leaving
me in a frame of mind disordered beyond description.

I was just about to offer some apologies to Mahommed, and make my peace with him before I left
(for I feared that he might for the future place obstacles in the way of similar evening performances),
when he said to me, with an anxious air, in that dialect of his which I translate, in order
to avoid reproducing the scene of the mamamouchis in the "Bourgeois Gentilhomme:"

"May I be allowed to hope that your lordship is satisfied?"

"Satisfied, Your Excellency?" I exclaimed, affectionately grasping his hands; "why, I am delighted!
You could not give me greater pleasure in this world than by treating me exactly as you treated
my uncle."

"The young ladies, then, did not displease your lordship?"

"Your daughters? Why, they are adorable! My only fear is lest I should not find them reciprocate
the sentiments which they inspire in me."

"Ah! Then it is not because your lordship is displeased that you will not remain here to-night?"
added he, with an anxious look.

"That I will not remain here?" I replied. "What do you mean?"

"Why, Your Excellency has not expressed his will to any of them."

"My will! What will, then, could I express to them?"

"Considering that they belong to your lordship," he continued.

"They belong to me? Who?"

"Why, Kondjé-Gul, Zouhra, Hadidjé, Nazli."

"They belong to me?" replied I, overcome with stupefaction.

"Certainly," said Mahommed, looking as astonished as I did. "His Excellency, Barbassou-Pasha,
your uncle, whose eunuch I had the honour of being, commanded me to purchase four maidens for
his harem. Since he is dead, and your lordship takes his place as master--I had supposed--"

"Ah!!!"

I won't attempt to render for you the full force of the exclamation to which I gave vent. You
may guess the feelings conveyed in it. In very truth I thought I should go out of my senses
this time. The dream of "The Thousand and One Nights" was being realised in my waking hours!
This extraordinary and sumptuous palace was a harem, and this harem was mine! These four Schéhérazades,
whose glorious youthfulness and fascinating charms had scorched me like fire, they were my
slaves, and only awaited a sign or token of my desire!

Mohammed, incapable of conceiving my agitation, regarded me with a pitiful, confused look,
as if he anticipated some disgrace. At this moment the old Greek woman brought him the keys:
there were four. He handed them to me.

"Thank you," I said; "now you may leave me."

He obeyed, saluted me without a word, and went out.

As soon as I found myself alone, not intending to restrain my feelings any more, I began to
march about the drawing-room like a madman, and gave free vent to the outburst of a joy which
overwhelmed me. I picked up from the carpet a ribbon dropped there by Kondjé-Gul, I pressed
it to my lips with avidity; next some scattered flowers, with which Hadidjé and Zouhra had played.

Louis, I hope you do not expect me to analyse for your benefit all the extraordinary sensations
which I experienced at that moment. The events which befel me verged upon the supernatural--the
supernatural cannot be described--and I know not any legend, romance, or novel, relating to
this world, which has ever treated such an astounding situation as that of which I was the
hero. Those severe middle-class parents who give their daughters, for New Year's presents,
M. Galland's "Arabian Nights," with illustrations of the amorous adventures of the Caliph of
Bagdad, would find such a romance as mine quite too "strong," simply because the scene is not
laid in Persia, or at Samarcand. Nevertheless, my story is identical in character, and the
most modest young lady might read it without a frown, if only my name were Hassan instead of André.

Would you like to know everything that can agitate the mind of a mortal in such a position
as mine? Listen, then.

When I had succeeded in reducing to some extent my exaltation of spirit, when I had at last
persuaded myself of the reality of this splendid fairyland, I sat down with my elbows on the
window-sill--I felt the need of a little fresh air. It was just striking midnight. What were
they doing? Were they thinking of me, I wondered, as much as I was thinking of them? I began
to examine the four keys which Mohammed had left me. Each key had a tiny label, with a letter
and a name on it--Nazli, Zouhra, Hadidjé, or Kondjé-Gul. My eyes were still filled with their
beauty. Although far from artless, I felt embarrassed in spite of myself, I might almost say
shy. After the fascinations of this evening, I knew that I was in love; I loved with a strange
passion suddenly developed; I loved to overflowing these beautiful beings, without being able
to separate one from another. So completely were they mingled in my fancy, they might have
possessed but one soul between them. By reason of my certitude of equal possession, Kondjé-Gul,
Hadidjé, Nazli, and Zouhra constituted in my imagination a single existence, exhaling its unrivalled
perfume of youth, beauty, and love.

All this may appear absurd to you. I daresay you are right, but I am only analysing for you
an enchantment which still influences me like a dream. While longing for the virginal delights
which awaited me, my tumultuous senses were plunged into certain apprehensions at once anxious
and sweet. How am I to explain it to you? Sultan though I have been in my life, never before
have I come in for such a delightful windfall of pleasures, my heart having been generally
occupied, as you know, with much less worthy objects. All at once I was overwhelmed by the
idea that they had doubtless misunderstood the reserve which I had affected in their company.
According to their harem traditions, customs, and laws, I was their legitimate master and husband:
was it not quite likely, then, that they believed me indifferent or even disdainful of their
charms? Troubled at this reflection, I was seized with a dreadful pang of conscience. What
could they suppose? Good heavens! Ought I to wait till the next day to dissipate their doubts,
and justify myself for such strange coldness--coldness which may have seemed like indifference?
I had no sooner conceived this thought than my desire concentrated itself upon one object,
to see Kondjé-Gul again.

I knew all the domestic arrangements of El Nouzha. In the centre of the edifice is a vast circular
hall, to which the daylight is admitted by a cupola of ground glass, supported by pillars of
white marble. Lamps hanging between the pillars give out a mysterious light. Once arrived there,
I listened. All was silent. I found Kondjé-Gul's chamber, and went close up to it. I listened
again, with my ear to the door. An indistinct rustling which I heard, apprized me that she
was not yet in bed. With key in hand, I still hesitated before opening. At last I made up my mind.

Picture to yourself a sweetly perfumed room, both rich and coquettish in its arrangements,
lined with Indian silk hangings of gay colours, and illumined by the soft light of a small
chandelier of three branches. In front of a large glass Kondjé-Gul was seated, her long hair
reaching down to the floor. With her bare arms uplifted, and her head turned backwards, she
held in her hand a golden comb. Seeing me, she uttered a little cry, got up with a bound, and
blushing all the while, and fixing upon me her great frightened eyes, she rested motionless
and almost in a tremble. Her agitation communicated itself to me.

"Did I frighten you?" I commenced, trying to speak with a firm voice; "and will you pardon
me for coming in like this?"

She did not answer a word, but lowered her eyes, a smile glanced furtively over her lips, and
then, with her hand on her bosom, she bowed to me.

"Kondjé-Gul! Dear Kondjé-Gul!" I exclaimed, touched to the depths of my soul by this act of
submission.

And springing towards her, I took her in my arms to chase away her fears; I kissed her brow,
which she offered to me, pressing her face against my bosom, with a lovely bashful look of alarm.

"You have come, then!" she whispered.

"Did you imagine I did not love you?" said I, as truly affected as she was.

At this question she raised her head with an inexpressible languor and smiled again, looking
into my eyes, and so close that our lips met.

Louis, is it true that the ideal embraces the infinite, and that the human soul soars into
regions so sublime that the blisses of this world below cannot satisfy it?... I did not want
to quit the harem without having also seen Hadidjé, Zouhra, and Nazli. Poor little dears, no
doubt they already fancied themselves disdained! I must dry up their tears.

You will understand by this time the complications in my uncle's will which have prevented
me, these four months past, from finding a minute to write to you.

I will relate to you the incidents of this remarkable situation, of this quadruple passion
by which I am possessed to such an extent that I am sincere in all my professions. You may
tell me, if you like, from the commonplace standpoint of your own limited experiences, that
it is all madness. I love, I adore, after the manner of a poet or a pagan--as you like, in
fact--but what does it all amount to? My uncle, who was a Mussulman, leaves me his harem; what
could I do?

If it should happen that your work leaves you a little leisure, don't come to Férouzat; you
understand? That's what we sultans are like! The girls are dying to see Paris; very likely
I shall turn up there one of these days.

I need hardly impress upon you, I suppose, the advisability of keeping this letter most carefully
from the eyes of your wife.

CHAPTER II.

Madam, let me be very candid; I have a warm temperament, certainly--more so, perhaps, than
an ordinary Provençal. I will confess to even more than this, if your grace so wills it, and
I will not blush for it; but pray condescend to believe that I am also a respecter of conventional
proprieties, and that I should feel most keenly the loss of your esteem in this regard. Now,
from a few words of satirical wit, concealed like small serpents under the flowery condolences
of your malicious letter, I concluded that this miserable fellow Louis, abandoning all considerations
of delicacy, and at the risk of ruining my reputation, had played me a most abominable trick,
by reading out to you all the nonsense which I wrote to him last week. You need not deny it!
He confesses it to-day, unblushingly, in the budget of news which he sends me, adding that
you "laughed over it." Good gracious! what can you have thought of me? After such a story,
I certainly could never again look you in the face, but that I can clear myself by assuring
you at once that all this tale was nothing but a mystification, invented as a return for some
of his impertinent chaff regarding my uncle Barbassou's will. Louis fell into the trap like
any booby. But for him to have drawn you with him, is enough to make me die of shame.

Madam, I prefer now to make my confession. I am not the hero of a romance of the Harem. I am
a good young man, an advocate of morality and propriety, notwithstanding the fact that you
have often honoured me with the title of "a regular original." Be so good as to believe, then,
that the most I have been guilty of is a too artless simplicity of character. I did not suppose
that Louis would show you this eccentric letter, for I had expressly enjoined him to keep it
from you. My only crime therefore in all this matter has been that I forgot that a woman of
your intelligence would read everything, when she had the mind to do so, and a husband like yours.

In fact, madam, I hardly know why I have taken the trouble to excuse myself with so much deliberation.
I perceive that by such apologies I run the risk of aggravating my mistake. What did I write,
after all, but a very commonplace specimen of those Arabian stories which girls such as you
have read continually in the winter evenings, under the eyes of their delighted mothers? When
I consider it, I begin to understand that your laughter, if you did laugh, must have been at
the feebleness of my imagination--you compared it with the Palace of gold and the thousand
wives of the Caliph Haroun-al-Raschid.--But please remember, once more, that I am a poor Provençal
and not a Sultan.

    "My tastes are those of a simple bachelor."

Observe moreover that, out of regard for probability, no less than from respect for local colouring,
I was obliged to decide upon a somewhat simple harem, and to confine it within the strictly
necessary limits. Like a school-boy, falling in love with the heroine he has put into his story,
I found myself so charmed with my fancy, that in order to further enjoy my pleasures of illusion,
I determined not to overstep the limits of a perfectly realisable adventure.

But since I abandoned myself to this folly, does it not seem to you, reconsidering the matter,
that a great deal would have been lost if such a romance had never occurred to me? And above
all if it had stopped short at the first page? Is it not astonishing that no author had thought
of writing such a thing before? Would not this have been just the work for a moralist and a
philosopher, worthy at once of a poet and of a scholar? This poor world of ours, madam, moves
in a narrow circle of passions and sensations, so limited that it seems to me as if every soul
rather more lofty than the average must continually feel itself imprisoned. What felicity it
must be, by a single flight of the imagination, to escape from this prison locked by prejudice!
To fly away into the regions of dreamland! Slave of our civilized conventions, what bliss to
run away unfettered into the shady paths of the pagan world, peopled with its merry, enchanting
nymphs! Or again to wander, like a happy child of Asiatic climes in gardens of sycamores, where
young sultanas bathe and disport themselves in basins of porphyry. The Bois de Boulogne is
a charming place, no doubt, madam; but you will admit that it is inferior to the Valley of
Roses, and that the painted and bedizened young women you see there will bear no comparison
with my houris.

What, then? Does my thirst after the ideal merit any censure? Do not you consider, you who
read novels, that it would, on the contrary, be an instructive as well as a curious study to
follow up the strange incidents which would necessarily result from such a very natural conjunction
of oriental love transferred to the midst of our own world? What contrasts they would provoke,
and what strange occurrences! Does not the absence of such a study leave a void in our illustrious
literature?

But I divine upon your lips a word which frightens me--"Immoral! Immoral!" you say.

Madam, this word shows me that you are strangely mistaken about my pure intentions. You are
a woman of considerable intelligence; let us understand each other like philosophers or moralists.
Suppose my name to be Hassan. You would read without the least ruffle on your brow the very
simple narrative of my pretended amours, and if they were hindered by any untoward obstacles,
you would perhaps accord them a small tribute of tears, such as you have doubtless shed over
the misfortunes of poor Namouna. The question of morality therefore, is in this case simply
a question of latitude, and the impropriety of my situation would disappear at once if I inhabited
the banks of the Bosphorus, or some palace at Bagdad.

Perhaps you take your stand upon the more elevated ground of "sentiment?" Well, this is precisely
the pyschological point of view that I am about to discuss, madam. Yes, if it were only in
order to inquire whether the human soul freed from all constraint, is capable of infinite expansion,
like a liberated gas. To mix positive and materialist science with etherialised sensualism,
such is my object. A simple passion, we all know what that is; but to adore four women at a
time--while so many honest folk are well content to love one only--this seems to me a praiseworthy
aspiration, fit to inspire the soul of a poet who prides himself upon his gallantry, no less
than the brain of a philosopher in search of the vital elixir and the sources of sensation.
Such a study would, assuredly, be arduous and severe, and would at any rate not be without
glory, as you will admit, if it should happen to terminate logically in the triumph of the
sublime Christian love over pagan or Mahometan polygamy.

Again, madam, in reprimanding me for my poor little harem, do you mean to preach against King
David, or the seven hundred wives of Solomon? Without going back to the biblical legends of
these venerable sovereigns, have you not read the classics? In what respect, may I ask, is
the poem of Don Juan more moral than my subject? And did good old Lafontaine drop any of his
artless probity, when he dipped his pen into the Boccaccian inkpot? The morality of a given
book, madam, depends entirely upon the morality of its author, who respects himself first by
respecting his public, and who will not lead the latter into bad company, not wishing to corrupt
it with bad sentiments.

It gives me pleasure to draw the picture of those ideal amours which every warm-blooded youth
of twenty has at one time or other cherished in his thoughts; to substitute virginal charms
and graces for vice and harlotry--and after the manner of those charming heathen poets who
have so often filled our dreams with their fancies, to mingle the anacreontic with the idyllic.
Open any of your moral stories, madam, and I'll wager my harem you will find that the interest
in them is always kept up by adultery, in thought or in deed, which has been erected into a
social institution! The same Minotaur has served for us since the time of Menelaus. Adultery,
adultery, always adultery! it is as inevitable as it is monotonous!

Do you prefer the novel of the day, on the lives and habits of courtesans? revelations of the
boudoir, where all is impure, venal, and degrading? No, madam, I won't proceed any farther,
out of respect alike for you and for my pen.

Possibly your taste inclines you to those moralist's studies of "Woman," in which the author
warns his readers on the first page that "he does not speak for chaste ears." Madam, it is
my boast that I have never written a line which a virtuous woman might not read.... My book
will certainly lose thereby in the circulation which it will obtain; but I shall console myself
by the thought that if I sometimes cause you to smile, that smile will never be accompanied
by a blush. Being the nephew of a Pasha, it struck me as a capital idea to lay the scene of
a Turkish romance in Provence, and to found upon it a study in psychology. Every romance must
be based upon love. Am I to be blamed, therefore, because oriental customs prescribe for lovers
different modes of love? Confess, if you please, that my heroines are more poetic than the
young women à la mode, into whose company I had as much right as any other author to conduct
my hero if I had so chosen. I will excuse myself by saying, like the simpleton De Chamfort,
"Is it my fault if I love the women I do love better than those I don't?"

P.S. Above all things, not a word to Louis about the mystification of which I am making him
a victim.

You wretch! Here's a fine pickle you've got me into! What, after I confided to you the extraordinary
adventures which I have passed through, relying upon your absolute secrecy and discretion,
you go straight off and read my letter to your wife, at the risk of bringing upon me by your
recklessness the most cruel gibes on the subject of my pasha-ship! Can't you see that if this
story gets wind, Paris will be too hot a place for me? I shall become the butt of the Society
journals and the halfpenny press, who will treat me as a most eccentric and romantic personage.
Never more shall I be able to set foot in club, theatre, or private drawing-room, without being
followed by the stares of the inquisitive and the quiet chaff of the ribald! I can picture
myself already in the Bois, with all the loafers in my train pointing out "the man with the
harem." Have you lost your senses, that you have betrayed me in this abominable fashion?

In all seriousness I now rely upon you to repair this blunder, by accepting, in the eyes of
your wife, the part of one mystified, which I have made you assume. I wrote to her that not
one word of this story is true, and that it is a romance I have been composing in order to
occupy the leisure hours which I am forced to pass in the solitude of Férouzat, while the business
connected with my inheritance is being wound up. In short, as I am positive that the first
thing she will do will be to show you her letter, I expect you, if your friendship is good
for anything, to pretend to believe it. Upon this condition only will I continue my confidences;
and I suspend them until you have given me your word of honour to observe discretion.

Having received your promise, Louis, I now resume my narrative at the point where I broke off.
Now you will see what you might have lost.

Just one word by way of preface.

I am relating to you, my dear friend, a story which is more especially remarkable for the multitude
of unaccustomed sensations with which it abounds, and which I experience at every step--for
my amourous adventures, as you will agree, bear no resemblance to the ready-made class of amours.
It would really have been a great loss for the future of psychology, if the hero of such adventures
had not happened to be, as I am, a philosopher capable of bringing to bear upon them powers
of correct analysis.

First of all, if you wish really to understand the peculiarities of my situation, you must
banish from your mind all that you have ever known of such amours as come within the reach
of the poor Lovelaces of our everyday world. Those uncertain, ephemeral connections of lovers
and mistresses whose only law is their caprice, and which mere caprice can dissolve; those
immoral and dubious ties whose permanence nothing can guarantee, and in which one jostles one's
rival of yesterday and of the morrow--in all amours of this sort there is something precarious
and humiliating. With our habits and customs no secret, no mystery, is possible; for however
loving or beloved a woman may be, her beauty is exposed to every eye. It is like the enjoyment
of communal property. In my harem, on the contrary, the charms of Zouhra, Nazli, and Kondjé-Gul,
concealed from all other eyes, have never excited any passions but mine; my tranquil possession
is undisturbed by the anxious jealousies which recollections of a former rival always awaken.
Nor is the future less assured than the present, for their lives are my property; they are
my slaves, and I their master, in charge of their souls. So much for my preface; now I will
proceed.

I will not disparage your powers of memory by reminding you that my interesting narrative was
broken off au premier lendemain--at the first glimmer of our honeymoon. The complete bliss,
the enchantment of such moments, is certainly the most exquisite thing I have experienced.
First the timid blushes, then the growing boldness and the fresh impression of first sensations--all
this and more, mingled with the contentment of entire possession. One gives oneself up entirely;
all barriers are broken down by love--participation in one tender secret has already united
the lovers' souls, which seek each other and mingle together in a common existence.

I had returned to the château before my people were up; after a bath I slept again, and did
not wake before noon. I breakfasted, and then waited till two o'clock before returning to El-Nouzha.
Too great a haste would have seemed to indicate a want of delicacy, and I wished to show that
I was discreet as well as passionate; this time of day seemed appropriate from both points of view.

To describe to you the condition of my feelings would be about as easy, you may imagine, as
to describe a display of fireworks. There are certain perturbations of the heart which defy
analysis. The enchantment which held me spell-bound, intoxicated my mind like fumes of haschisch,
and I could hardly recognise myself in this fairy-world character; it required an effort on
my part to assure myself of my own identity, and that I was not misled by a dream. No, it was
myself sure enough! Then I remembered that I was going to see them again. My darlings were
waiting for me. No doubt they had already exchanged confidences. What kind of reception should
I have? My duties as Sultan were so new to me that I trembled lest I should commit some mistake
which would lower me in their eyes; I was walking blindfold in this paradise of Mahomet, of
whose laws I was ignorant. Ought I to maintain the dignified bearing of a vizir, or abandon
myself to the tender attitudes of a lover? In my perplexities I was almost tempted to send
for Mohammed-Azis, to request of him a few lessons in deportment as practised by the Perfect
Pasha of the Bosphorus; but perhaps he would disturb my happiness? As to introducing a hierarchy
into my harem, I would not hear of such a thing; for to tell the truth, the choice of a favourite
would be an impossibility for me. I loved them all four with an equal devotion, and could not
even bear the thought of their being reduced to three without feeling the misery of an unsatisfied
love.

At last the hour having arrived without my mind being decided, I wisely determined to act as
circumstances might dictate, and started off in the direction of my harem. I think I have already
told you that a small door of which I alone possess the key, communicates between my park and
El-Nouzha. From this door a sort of labyrinth leads to the Kasre by a single narrow alley,
which one might take for a disused path. When I reached the last turn in this alley which terminates
in the open gardens, I perceived under the verandah Mohammed-Azis, who seemed to be watching
me--he ran towards me with an eager and delighted appearance, and salem aleks without end.

By his first words I gathered that he knew all.

When I asked after them, he told me that I was expected; then all at once I heard merry voices,
followed by the noise of hurrying footsteps mingled with rustlings of silk dresses. Soon I
saw coming out under the verandah, struggling together to be the first to reach me, Hadidjé,
Nazli, Kondjé-Gul and Zouhra; they threw themselves into my arms all four at once, laughing
like children, hugging me, and holding up their rosy lips, each vying with the other for my
first kiss. What laughter, what merry, bird-like warbling of voices! And all this with the
natural abandonment of youth and simplicity--I was about to say innocence--so much so that
I was quite taken aback. But all of a sudden, at a word from Mohammed, who was looking at us
affectionately, and more and more delighted every minute, they stopped quite confused. He had,
no doubt, reprimanded them for some breach of decorum, for they, slipping gently aside, held
their hands up to their foreheads. You may guess I soon cut short these respectful formalities,
by drawing them back into my arms.... Whereupon renewed laughter and merriment ensued, accompanied
with little glances of triumph at poor Mohammed, who assumed a scandalised expression, lifting
up his hands as if to make Heaven a witness that he was not responsible for this neglect of
all Oriental etiquette! After this scene, you will easily understand that I did not trouble
my head any more about the difficulties which I had anticipated in my family duties. I had
apprehended a very delicate situation, aggravated by growing jealousies; by the susceptibilities
of rivals, offended airs, perhaps even the reproaches and tears of betrayed love.

Five minutes later we were running about the gardens. Having only arrived two days before,
they had not yet been outside the harem. The sight of their domain pleased them immensely,
and their young voices prattled away with a musical volubility fit to gladden the hearts of
the very birds. At each step they made some new discovery, some bed of flowers, or some shady
path at the bottom of which the sound of a waterfall could be heard, carried off by sparkling
brooks running on beds of moss over the whole length of the park until they lost themselves
in the lake; over these brooks were placed at intervals little foot-bridges painted in bright
colours. All these things gave rise to questions. Naturally Kondjé-Gul was always the interpreter;
they all listened, opening their eyes wide; then they started off again, plucking flowers from
the bushes, which they placed in their hair, in their bosoms, and round their necks. In order
to attract my admiration for these adornments, each of them kept running up to me as if she
wanted a kiss.

If you want to know the thoughts and feelings of a mortal under these circumstances, I must
confess that it is quite beyond my power to explain them to you. I was bewildered, captivated,
and surprised by such novel sensations that without reflection or conscious analysis, I simply
abandoned myself to them. If you wish to understand them, my dear fellow, you must first acquire
some æsthetic notions which, artist though you are, you do not yet possess; you must familiarise
yourself with these entirely exotic charms of the daughters of the East, their youthful simplicity
and ease combined with a certain voluptuous nonchalance, the undulating movements of their
hips acquired by the habit of moving about in Oriental slippers, their lissom and feline graces,
and the overwhelming fascination of their languishing eyes. You must see them in these strange
picturesque costumes, so artistically revealing their graceful forms, in wide silk trousers,
tied round at the ankles, and drawn in at the waist by a rich scarf of golden gauze: you must
see them in their jackets embroidered with pearls, and open bodices of Broussan silk transparent
as gauze; or in the long robe open in front, the train of which they hold up by fastening it
to the waist when they want to walk about freely--all these things in soft well-toned colours,
blending wonderfully together. It was a dazzling scene of fresh beauty and strange enchantment,
such as I cannot attempt to describe.

Once we arrived at the end of a ravine, where we were obliged to cross the brook by stepping-stones
set in its bed. Thereupon they cried out with fright. I prevailed upon Zouhra, who seemed to
be the bravest, to cross holding my hand. Hadidjé followed her; but when it came to Nazli's
turn, the timid creature hung to my neck as if terrified by some great danger; so I took her
up in my arms and carried her across to the opposite side. Kondjé-Gul, like a coquette that
she is, followed her example.

"Oh! carry me too," she cried.

As I was holding her over the brook, one of her slippers fell into the water. You may guess
how they laughed; there was Kondjé-Gul hopping about on one foot while I was fishing out the
little sandal, which I had to dry in order to avoid wetting her soft green-silk stocking.

It was one of the most charming spots in the park: a great carpet of turf shaded by a clump
of sycamores. We all sat down....

You have, doubtless, seen plenty of pictures on the subject of "Dreams of Happiness." There
is a delightful garden, at the bottom of which stands the temple of Love; the figures, handsome
young men and handsome young women, are always found reclining. Well, if you exclude from such
a picture details somewhat too academic for Férouzat, you may see me on the grass, enjoying
the fresh air with my houris lying down around me, in the charming abandoned attitudes of young
nymphs who have never heard of such a thing as stays, but display in bold relief the well-rounded
forms of their beautiful and lissom figures.

I had passed my arm round Zouhra's neck; she, with a fond look, rested her head against me,
and Hadidjé imitated her on the other side. I began to talk to Kondjé-Gul, the sole interpreter
of my amours. You may guess how curious I was to learn their thoughts. I questioned her about
the events of the morning, and what they had been saying to each other. Directly she replied,
I learnt that when they first got up there was, as the result of their mutual confidences,
a general astonishment. But Mohammed explained everything, by telling them that "such is the
custom in the French harems." This explanation was sufficient for them. You may be sure I did
not contradict such a flattering assurance.

"Well then, you like my country," I said to her; "and they are all content that they have come
here?"

"Oh, yes!" she exclaimed, "especially since we saw you! Mohammed had led us to believe that
you were old. We feared we were about to enter upon a dull and formal existence. So you may
imagine how delighted we were when you arrived, and he told us our master was you! At first
we could not believe it, but as he had let us appear unveiled, we were constrained to admit
that he had not deceived us. And then, when I heard you speak to him--I understood all. Immediately
I repeated to them your words, and how that you found us handsome."

"And so," I replied, "I may believe you really love me? And do they also?"

She looked at me with an astonished air, as if this question conveyed no meaning to her.

"Why, of course; since you are kind, affectionate, and nice to us!"

The others listened attentively without understanding a word; their handsome eyes wandered
from Kondjé-Gul to me, and from me to Kondjé-Gul, with an indescribable expression of curiosity.

"But you," she replied after a moment, "is it really true that you mean always to love us all,
one as much as another, as you have done to-day?"

"Certainly," I replied with assurance; "this is the custom in our harems, as Mohammed told
you. Does not that please you better?"

"Oh, yes!" she exclaimed, "but we always thought that you Franks never loved more than one woman."

"That's what they keep saying in Turkey, to injure us, and out of jealousy, because we do not
ordinarily marry more than one wife, to whom it is our duty to be faithful."

"But--what happens then, when a man has four, as you have?" she inquired.

"We are equally faithful to all the four!" I replied, without wincing.

"Oh, what happiness!" she exclaimed, clapping her hands with joy.

And immediately, with the volubility of a bird, she began to talk to the others, translating
to them everything which we had just been saying. They were all in transports of merriment.

Louis, I won't proceed any further. I can guess the stupid reflections which will occur to
you on the subject of this very simple situation which you, like one left behind, buried deep
in the ruts of your absurd prejudices, take the liberty of judging from afar. Yes, confess
it without reserve; you, moving in the limited sphere of your own feeble experiences, are about
to pronounce my amours eccentric. On the fallacious ground that it is unnatural to love and
be loved by four women at a time, you, like any other miserable sceptic, are shocked by the
freedom of simple sentiments which you are unable to appreciate. First, then, let me assure
you that in their own minds none of them conceived the slightest irregularity in their position.
According to the laws and customs of their country, they believed themselves to be my wives
by a tie as perfect and as legitimate in their eyes as that of marriage in ours. They are my
cadines, a position which creates for them duties and rights defined by the Koran itself.

Next, out of consideration for your poor intellect, let me inform you also that under the blessed
skies of Turkey the wife has no such presumptuous ambition as that of possessing a husband
all to herself. Reared with a view to the harem, the young girl aims no higher in her ambitious
fancy than to become the favourite and outshine her rivals; but never, never in the world,
does she conceive the outlandish notion of becoming the sole object of the affections of lover,
master, or husband. The ideal of girls like Zouhra, Nazli, Hadidjé, and Kondjé-Gul, is the
life which I am now giving them; they abandon themselves to it, as to the realisation of their
hopes. Their notions respecting the destiny of woman do not go beyond this happiness, which
they now possess, of pleasing their master and being loved in this way by him. It is no use,
therefore, for you to string together a lot of conventional abstractions with a view to drawing
from them any deductions applicable to the laws of the Kingdom of Love.

The truth is that Hadidjé, Nazli, and Zouhra burst into transports of joy when Kondjé-Gul repeated
to them my promise to be "faithful to all four of them."

My dear fellow, there is a great deal of the child remaining in these creatures, who seem to
have been only created to expand their beauty, as flowers are to exhale their perfume. Cloistered
in the life of the harem, their ideas do not reach beyond the horizon of the harem. Their hearts
and their minds have only been cultivated by recitals of wonderful legends and of superstitious
romances of love; they know nothing else.

You may say, if you like, that they are just pretty little animals without souls--but you would
be wrong. Again I repeat, most of our so-called refined and civilised ideas about sentiment,
virtue, propriety, and modesty, are conventional ideas, differing according to place, climate,
and habits; and this you will see clearly by following my story, which I may with good reason
call natural history, for when I take the instincts of my little animals by surprise, they
display for a moment bold impulses which bear much more resemblance to genuine innocence of
mind than do certain affectations of modesty practised by the young ladies of our educated society.

The slipper being nearly dry, Kondjé-Gul put it on her little arched foot, with its famous
light green silk stocking, and we recommenced our course through the park. I will say nothing
about a row we took in a boat on the lake, with great willows on its banks. The swans and the
Mandarin ducks followed us in procession.

Mohammed, like a wise man, had foreseen that I should stay at the Kasre. The dinner this time
was served in the French style. He did not sit down with us as he had done the day before;
I had no longer need of him, and he returned to the obscure position which he was henceforth
to occupy during my visits. I sat down to table, therefore, with my houris; and this meal,
in which everything was new to them, became a veritable feast. They nibbled and tasted a bit
of everything with exclamations of surprise, with careful investigations, and with little gourmandish
airs of inexpressible charm. I should tell you that my cook only won their unanimous approbation
at dessert, when they commenced to make a sort of second dinner of sweets and cakes, creams
and fruit. The champagne pleased them above all things, and would have ended by turning their
little heads, but for my careful attention. Whilst they vied with each other in merriment and
gay prattle, I was thinking of that oriental meal of the night before in which I had seated
myself by them in the reserved attitude of a stranger. What a dream fulfilled! What fairy's
wand had produced this magical effect? I tell you it was a regular transformation scene. At
dessert Hadidjé bent her head down to me with a mischievous look, and laughed as she spoke
some Turkish word.

"Sana yanarim!" I replied, emphasizing the sentence with a kiss on her hand. I had learnt from
Kondjé-Gul that it means "I love you," or more literally, "I am burning for you."

You may guess how successful this was, and with what shouts of joy it was received. Of course
there followed a little make-believe scene of jealousy on the part of the others.

"Kianet! ah, Kianet!" they repeated, laughing, and threatening me with uplifted fingers. This
expression signifies "ungrateful."

When evening arrived I took them into the park to calm the warmth of their emotions down a
little. It was a splendid moonlight night, and the long black shadows of the trees stretched
over the walk. As we passed these dark places the timid creatures pressed close about me.

Ah! well, you don't expect me, I suppose, to tell you how this day was concluded? Affairs of
the harem, my dear fellow!--affairs of the harem!

As to my other news, I hardly need tell you that nobody in this neighbourhood has a suspicion
of the secrets of El-Nouzha. In my external life I conform to all the social requirements of
my position. I visit my uncle's old friends, Féraudet the notary, and the good old vicar, who
calls me the Providence of the place. Once a week I dine with the doctor, Morand; who has a
son, George Morand, an officer in the Spahis, on leave for the present at Férouzat; and an
orphan niece, a young lady of nineteen, lively and sympathetic. She is engaged to her cousin
the captain, who is a regular Africain, a fire-eater you may call him, but a good fellow in
the full sense of that word--one of those open natures made for devotion, like a Newfoundland
dog, or a poodle. He is both formidable and patient. Such is my friend! We were playmates as
children, and he would not brook the slightest insult to me in his presence. He wonders very
much at my anchorite's life, and in order to divert me from it, endeavours to draw me into
the hidden current of rustic gallantries which he indulges in while awaiting the day of Hymen.

CHAPTER III.

In the detailed account which I gave you, my dear Louis, of my honeymoon, I described pretty
nearly the history of every day which has passed since I last wrote. "Happy nations have no
history," said a wise man; happiness requires no description. First then, you must understand
that I am now writing after recovery from the natural excitement into which my strange adventures
had plunged me. Three months have passed; I am now enjoying my life like a refined vizir, and
no longer like a simple troubadour of Provence, transported of a sudden into the Caliph's harem.
I have recovered my analytical composure.

As you may well imagine I set to work, after the second day, to learn Turkish, an easy task
after my studies in Sanscrit. Add to this that, with the aid of love, my houris have learnt
French, with all the marvellous facility and linguistic instinct of the Asiatic races. You
will not be astonished to learn, then, that I can now share with them all the pleasures of
conversation; a happy result which will permit me henceforth to furnish a more complete description
of their different characters.

Having said this, I will give you in the present letter, with a view of enabling you to understand
this narrative more perfectly, the most precise details upon the following subjects:

First--The organisation, laws, and internal regulations of my harem;

Second--Full-length portraits of my odalisques, and a description of their characters;

Third--A careful dissertation upon the advantages of polygamy, and its applicability to the
moral regeneration of mankind.

I will first confess, without any presumption, that the ingenious system established for the
conduct of my harem is all due to my uncle Barbassou, who, as much as any man in the world,
was always particularly careful to maintain what the English term "respectability." In the
eyes of the whole neighbourhood, nay, even of my own household, Mohammed-Azis is an exile,
a person of high political rank, to whom my uncle had given a hospitable retreat.

Barbassou-Pasha always addressed him respectfully as "Your Excellency," nor did any servant
in the château speak in different terms of him. He had had the misfortune to lose one of his
daughters--so the story goes--for he seems to have had originally five. Whether his daughters
are young or old, no one knows. In the interior of the Kasre all the services are performed
by Greek women, who do not know a word of French; they never go out of doors. The gardeners
have to leave the gardens at nine o'clock in the morning. All these arrangements, as you will
perceive, are extremely correct. The story about Mohammed is a very plausible one; his solemn
and melancholy expression together with his solitary life, are thoroughly in conformity with
the fallen grandeur of a minister in disgrace. He is writing, according to report, a memoir
in justification of his conduct. He works at it both day and night, and it is well-known that
I very often sit up quite late with him, in order to assist him in this task.

As for me, I do not suppose you imagine that, like the Knight Tannhauser on the Venusberg,
I am continually wasting my spirit and my strength over what Heine calls "the sweets and dainties
of love;" or that the philtres of Circe have transformed me into a hog like the companions
of Ulysses.--Go gently, my dear fellow! I am a representative of the learned cohort, please
to remember! I keep a careful diary of my observations, from which I intend to draw up a report
for the Academy. Like those bold investigators of pathological science who inoculate themselves
with a deadly virus in order to study its effects upon themselves, I, a serious analytical
student, am devoting myself to a course of experiments in pure sensualism, to the sole profit
of Science. Without restrictions, but in full consciousness of the high mission which I have
undertaken; without cheating myself with too small a dose of the intoxicating draught, I act
like an honest Epicurean. I take of the voluptuous delights of my harem as large a dose as
an intelligent and refined student of nature ought to require, but without imprudently overstraining
the springs of sensation. Armed with the dexterity of superior wisdom, I, floating on this
Oriental stream of Love, know how to remain faithful to my charge, by avoiding the rocks of
satiety and the shipwreck of illusions.

Every day then, about three o'clock, after having devoted the morning to my business affairs
or to my "Essays on Psychology," I go to El-Nouzha, and stay there usually until the middle
of the night. However, I sometimes go there of a morning, for a bath; I am teaching my houris
to swim. I must tell you that in this matter, indispensable for the comfort of the sultanas,
Barbassou-Pasha designed a marvel. In the middle of an island in the lake (which is taken from
the delightful garden of See-ma-Kouang, the famous Chinese poet), picture to yourself a great
marble basin surrounded by a circular arcade, a sort of atrium open to the sky. Under a colonnade
and in its cool shade, a fine Manilla mat covers the flag-stones. The base of the inner walls
is enlivened with frescoes, after Pompeian and Herculanean models. Round the white pillars
cling myrtles and climbing roses, reaching up to the terrace ornamented with vases and statues,
which stand out in relief against a mass of purple drapery. Here are set capacious divans in
leather, hammocks, carpets, and cushions to recline upon. Such is the aspect of this enchanting
place. On many a hot morning we have breakfasted there, and it is from there that I write to
you to-day, dressed in a Persian robe with wide sleeves, while around me sports my harem; affording
me, therefore, an excellent excuse for at once proceeding to sketch the portraits of my almées.

In all beings the internal character is so closely allied to the external form, that it appears
to be only an equation of the latter. Thus certain features of the face announce peculiarities
of nature, inclinations, and instincts even to the vulgar; the physiologist, with his more
special knowledge, discovers quite a series of concealed revelations in the innermost recesses
of that pretty sphinx which constitutes God's masterpiece, and which we call woman. In the
same way grace is always the result of the harmony of lines; from the slightest outline, from
the position of a dimple, or the tension of a smile, from a glance, or from the most transient
gesture, one can always trace the origin of a feeling, and lay bare the mind. Thus, at this
moment, I behold Hadidjé leave the water, and saunter quietly in the direction of Nazli and
Zouhra, who are reclining on cushions and smoking cigarettes. By the air of indifference that
she affects I could wager that she contemplates playing them some trick!

And indeed, when close to the smokers, she suddenly shook her hair. The two others jumped up
under the spray of sparkling water, and ran after her, beating her with their fans and fly-flaps.

Kondjé-Gul, the heedless beauty, who is rocking herself in her hammock beside me, scarcely
raises her lazy head to follow them with a glance, at the sound of their cries and laughter.
Since her name is at the end of my pen, I will begin my series of portraits with her.

Kondjé-Gul is a Circassian by race. Her name in Turkish signifies a variety of rose which we
are not acquainted with in France; she was brought when quite a child to Constantinople by
her mother, attached to the service of a cadine of the Sultan. She is now eighteen. Imagine
the Caucasian type in the flower of its beauty, tall, with the figure of a young goddess, an
expression of natural indolence which appears to indicate a consciousness of her sovereign
beauty, and a fine head crowned with thick chestnut hair falling down to her waist. Her features
are clean cut, and of a remarkably pure type. Large brown eyes with heavy eyelids, imparting
a languishing expression; lips somewhat sensual, which from her habit of carrying her head
erect, she seems always to be holding out for a kiss; a mixture of Greek beauty with a strange
sort of grace peculiar to this Tcherkessian race, which still remains a trifle savage. All
these characteristics make up an ensemble both exotic and marvellous, which I could no more
describe to you than I could explain the scent of the lily. Of a loving and tender nature,
she exhibits the disposition of a child in whom ardent impulses are united with a profound
gentleness of sentiment. She is the jealous one of my household--but, hush! the others know
nothing of this.... Certainly she is the most remarkable and the most perfect of my little animals.

Hadidjé is a Jewess of Samos, a Jewess of a type singularly rare among the descendants of Israel.
She is a blonde of a mingled tint, soft and golden, of which the Veronese blonde will give
you no idea. Her beauty is undoubtedly one of those effects of selection and crossing admitted
as the foundation of Darwin's system.... England has left her trace there! Picture to yourself
one of those "Keepsake" girls escaped from Byron's "Bride of Abydos" or his "Giaour;" take
some such charming creature, fair and fresh-complexioned, white and pink, and plunge her in
the atmosphere of the harem, which will orientalise her charms and give her that--whatever
it is--which characterises the undulating fascinations of the sultanas.

My dear friend, an incredible event has happened--an event astounding, unheard of, supernatural!
Don't try to guess; you will never succeed, never! It surpasses the most prodigious and miraculous
occurrence ever imagined by human brain.

Yesterday I had broken off my letter, distracted by Hadidjé, at the very moment when I was
tracing her portrait for you. The day passed away before I again found leisure to finish it.
This morning I was breakfasting at the château all alone in my study, where I generally have
my meals, in order not to interrupt my work. While I was ruminating over the last number of
a scientific magazine, my ear was struck by the noise of a carriage rolling over the gravel
walk. As I very seldom receive visits, and my friend George, the spahi, always comes on foot,
I thought it must be my notary coming to stir me up about some business matters; he had been
reproaching me the last fortnight for neglecting them. The carriage stopped in front of the
doorsteps. I heard the servants running across the antichamber. Suddenly I heard a cry, followed
by confused voices, which sounded as though trembling with fright, and finally fresh sounds
of steps, rushing headlong, as in a sudden rout. Wondering what this might mean, I listened,
when all of a sudden a stentorian voice shouted out these words:--

"But what's the matter with those blockheads? How much longer are they going to leave me here
with my bag?"

Louis, imagine my amazement and stupefaction! I thought I recognised the voice of my dead uncle,
which in the brazen notes of a trumpet grew louder and louder, adding in a pompous, commanding
tone--

"François! if I catch you, you rascal, you'll soon know what for!"

I jump up, run to the window, and see quite distinctly my uncle, Barbassou Pasha himself.

"Hullo! you here, my boy?" says he.

As for me, I leap over the balcony, and fall into his arms; he lifts me up from the ground,
as if I were a child, and we embrace each other. You may guess my emotion, my surprise, my
transports of joy! The servants watched us from a distance, frightened and not yet daring to
approach near.

"Ah, well!" repeated my uncle; "what on earth's the matter with them? Have I grown any horns?"

"I will explain everything," I said; "come in, while they take up your luggage."

"All right!" he replied; "and get some breakfast for me, quick! I'm as hungry as a wolf."

All this was said with the dignity of a man who never allows himself to be surprised at anything,
and in that meridional accent, the ring of which is sufficient to betray the origin of the
man. My uncle speaks seven languages; at Paris, as you know, he pronounces with the pure accent
of a Parisian, but directly he sets foot in Provence, that's all over; he resumes his brogue,
or as they call it down here, the assent.

He came in, stepping briskly, and holding his head erect; I followed him. Once in my study,
and seeing the table laid, he sat down as naturally as if he had just returned from a walk
in the park, poured out two large glasses of wine, which he swallowed one after the other with
a gulp of deep satisfaction; and then made a cut at a pie, which he attacked in a serious manner,
rendering it quite impossible to mistake him for a spectre. I let him alone, still contemplating
him with amazement. When I considered him ready to answer my questions, I said--

"Well, uncle, where have you come from?"

"Té! I come from Japan, you know very well," he answered, just as if he were referring to the
chief town of the department; "only I have dawdled a bit on the way, which prevented me from
writing to you."

"And during the last five months what has happened to you?"

"Pooh! I made an excursion into Abyssinia, in order to see the Negus, who owed me two hundred
thousand francs. He has not paid me, the scamp! But how odd you do look! And that great arleri,
François! how he stares at me with his full round eyes, as if I were going to swallow him up.
Is there anything so very fierce about me? Hullo, you have altered my livery!" he went on;
"they all look like ecclesiastics; have you taken orders, then?"

"Why, uncle, these five months past we have been in mourning for you."

"In mourning for me? You must be joking!"

"These five months past we have believed you to be dead, and have received all the documents
proving your death!"

"Perhaps these documents informed you that I was buried, then?" he added, without changing
countenance.

"Why, yes, certainly!" I said. "We have also the certificate of your interment!"

At this my uncle Barbassou could restrain himself no longer, and was seized with one of those
fits of silent laughter which are peculiar to him.

"In this case--you would be my heir?" he said, in the middle of his transport of gaiety, which
hardly permitted him to speak.

"I am already, my dear uncle," I replied, "and am in possession of all your property!"

This reply put the finishing touch to his hilarity, and he started off again into such a fit
of laughter that I was caught by it, and so was François.

But suddenly my uncle stopped, as if some reflection had crossed his mind, and seizing my hand
with a sudden impulse he said:

"Ah! but now I think of it, my poor boy, you must have experienced a severe blow of grief!"

This was said with such frank simplicity, and proceeded so evidently from a heart guiltless
of any dissimulation, that I swear to you I was stirred to the bottom of my soul; my eyes filled
with tears, and I threw myself on to his neck to thank him.

"Well, well!" he said, patting me on the shoulder to calm me, while he held me in his arm;
"never mind, old fellow, now that I'm back again!"

When breakfast was finished and the table cleared, we remained together alone.

"Come, uncle, as soon as you have explained to me what has happened to lead to this story of
your death, the next thing will be to take early steps for your resuscitation."

"Take steps!" he exclaimed, "and for why?"

"Why, to re-establish your civil status and your rights of citizenship as a live person."

"Oh, they'll find out soon enough, when they see me, that I don't belong to the other world!"
said he, quite calmly.

"Now that you are regarded as defunct, you will not be able to do anything, to sign, to contract----"

"So, so! Never mind all that. Barbassou-Gratien-Claude-Anatole doesn't trouble himself about
such trifles."

"But your estates?" I said; "your property which I have inherited?"

"Have you paid the registration fees?" he asked me, in a serious tone.

"Certainly I have, uncle."

"Well! Do you want to put me to double expense for the benefit of the government, which will
make you pay it all over again at my real death?"

"What is it you mean to do, then?" said I.

"You shall keep them! Now's your turn," he added, in a chaffing tone; "all these forty years
I have had the worry of them; it's your turn now, young man! You shall manage them, and make
them your business; it will be for you now to pay my expenses and all that!"

"I hope you don't dream of such a thing, my dear uncle!" I exclaimed. "Why even, supposing
that I continue to manage your property----"

"Excuse me," he said, "your property! It is yours, the fees having been duly paid."

"Well, our property, if you like," I replied, with a laugh; "all the same, I repeat you cannot
remain smitten with civil death."

"Bah! Bah! Political notions! But first explain to me how I come to be dead--that puzzles me."

I then related to him what I have told you of this strange story; the notary's letter informing
me of the cruel news brought by my uncle's lieutenant Rabassu, confirmed by the most authentic
documents, and accompanied by a portfolio containing all his papers and letters, securities
in his name, and agreements signed by him; proving, in short, an identity which it was impossible
to dispute.

"My papers!" he exclaimed. "They were not lost then?"

"I have them all," I replied.

"I begin to understand! It's all the fault of that stupid Lefébure."

"Who is this Lefébure?" I asked.

"I am going to tell you," replied my uncle; "the whole thing explains itself and becomes clear.--But
I wonder, did not Rabassu with the news of my death bring some camels?"

"Not a single camel, uncle."

"That's odd! However, sit down, and I will tell you all about it."

I sat down, and my uncle gave me the following narrative. I write it out for you faithfully,
my dear Louis; but what I cannot render for you, is the inimitable tone of tranquillity in
which he related it, just as if he were describing a fête at a neighbouring village.

"In returning from Japan," he said, "I must tell you that I put in at Java. Of course I landed
there. On the pier-head, I recognised Lefébure, a sea-captain and an old friend of mine; he
had given up navigation in order to marry a mulattress there, who keeps a tobacco-shop. I said
to him 'Hullo, how are you?' He embraces me and answers that he is very dull. 'Dull?' I reply,
'well, come along with me to Toulon for a few days; my ship is in the harbour here, I will
give you a berth in her, and send you home next month by "The Belle-Virginie!" My proposal
delights him, but his answer is that it is impossible. 'Impossible? Why?' 'Because I have a
wife who would not hear of it!' 'We must see about that,' I say to him. Well, we go to their
shop; the wife makes a scene, cries and screams, calling him all sorts of names, and they fight
over it. At last, while they are taking a moment's rest, I add that I shall weigh anchor at
six o'clock in the evening. 'I will wait for you until five minutes past six,' I say; and then
I go off to my business. At six o'clock I weighed anchor, and began to tack about a bit. At
6:10 I was off, when I saw a barque approaching. I gave the order 'Stop her.' It was Lefébure,
who was making signs to us to stop. He comes up, gets on board, and off we go."

Fifteen days after that we put in at Ceylon for a few hours. On the twenty-sixth day, as we
arrived in sight of Aden, we observed a good deal of movement in the harbour. There was an
English man-of-war displaying an admiral's flag, which they were saluting. On shore I learnt
that she was carrying a Commission sent out to make some diplomatic representations to the
Negus of Abyssinia. And who should I meet but Captain Picklock, one of my old friends whose
acquaintance I made at Calcutta, where he was in one of the native regiments. He informed me
that he was in command of the escort accompanying the envoys. I said to Lefébure 'By the by,
the Negus owes me some money--shall we go and make a trip there?' Lefébure replied, 'By all
means let us!' I bought four horses and half-a-dozen camels, which I sent on board with my
provisions; and we started with the envoys. We had some amusement on the way. I knew the country
very well myself, but when we were half-way, at Adoua, where we halted for half a day, Lefébure
picks up with an Arab woman. He wants to stay with her until the next day, and says to me,
'Go on with the captain; I will join you again to-morrow with the convoy of baggage.' I started
off accordingly. Next day, no Lefébure. That annoyed me rather, because he had kept the camels.
However, I continued my journey, thinking that I should find him again on my return. Finally
I arrived at the Negus's capital, just in time to hear that they were on the point of dethroning
him. My intention was to apply to the English commissioners to help me in getting my little
business settled. I found, however, that my portfolio and papers were with Lefébure, who had
the baggage; fortunately, I still had the gold which I carry in my belt. Then I naturally availed
myself of this opportunity to go off and wander about the interior, as far as Nubia, where
I had some acquaintances. I commissioned Captain Picklock to tell Lefébure to come on and join
me at Sennaar, with the camels. So off I go, and arrive in ten days' time at Sennaar, where
I find the King of Nubia, who was not very happy about the political situation; he treats me
very hospitably, and I buy ivory and ostrich feathers of him.

Three weeks go by, but no Lefébure! So I naturally avail myself of the delay, for pushing on
a bit into Darfour; when, lo and behold! just like my luck, on the ninth day, as I am entering
the outskirts of El-Obeid in Kordofan, I am met by a predatory tribe of Changallas! They surround
me; I try to defend myself, and a great burly rascal jumps at my throat, and trips me up. I
feel that I am being strangled by him; I deal him a blow in the stomach with my fist, and he
tumbles backwards; only, as his hand still grips my throat, he drags me down with him; the
others attack me at the same time, and I am captured! My blow appears to have been the death
of the negro--which did not mend matters for me. They thrust me, bound fast like a bundle of
wood, into a sort of shed, after robbing me of all my gold.

I was carefully guarded. At the end of eight days I said to myself, 'Barbassou, your ship lies
in the harbour of Aden; you have business to attend to, and you won't get out of your present
scrape without conciliatory negotiations. You must resign yourself to a sacrifice!' I send
for the chief, and offer him as my ransom a cask containing fifty bottles of rum, ten muzzle-loading
guns, and two complete uniforms of an English general. This offer tempts him; but as I ask
him first of all to have me safe conducted to the King of Nubia, he answers that if once I
got there I should send him about his business. They confined me in a pit, where I had only
rice and bananas to eat, to which I am not at all partial. As to the women, they are monkeys.
However, after four months of negotiations we came to an agreement that I should be conveyed
back to Sennaar, where I engaged upon my word of honour to give guarantees.

I set off, still bound fast, with ten men to guard me. After a fortnight we arrive in the town.
I enquire for Lefébure.--No Lefébure. I then go to the king's palace--but he had just started
off on a week's hunting expedition. However, I find the sheik who was in command of the town,
and relate my difficulty to him. He informs me that the treasury is closed. I tell my guards
that they can return, and that I will have my ransom sent from Aden, but that does not content
them; one of them seizes hold of me by the arm, but I gave him a good hiding. Finally the sheik
furnishes me with an escort, and I return to Gondar. The English had gone back, and I started
on my voyage across to Aden. When I reached Adoua, where I had left my friend Lefébure, I asked
for him. Again no Lefébure! However, I had the luck to find his Arabian sweetheart, whom I
questioned about him. Her reply is, that the very day I left him, the stupid fellow went and
caught a sunstroke, of which he died the same day. I inquire after my baggage and my camels.--No
baggage, no camels! They had all been forwarded to the Governor of Aden.

"When I arrived at Aden, the Governor told me that everything which had been received had been
sent on board my ship, including the papers found on my friend, and that a certificate of death
had been duly drawn up, which my lieutenant was instructed to convey to the family. I asked
no more questions, and wrote at once a little note of condolence to Lefébure's wife. I sent
the agreed ransom to my Changallas, and at the same time a letter of complaint to the King
of Nubia. Altogether, it was four months since my ship had left Aden. The following day I took
the mail boat to Suez--arrived last night at Marseilles--and here I am!"

"Yes, indeed," I said to my uncle, when he had concluded; "that explains it all. They drew
up the certificate of decease according to the papers found on your friend Lefébure, and as
they were yours----"

"Why, they mistook him for me; and that ass Rabassu went off with the ship to bring the notary
the news of my death."

"That's clear," I added.

"But what puzzles me most," replied he, "is to know what has become of my camels!"

As you may well imagine, my dear Louis, this unexpected resurrection of my uncle plunged me
into a state of excitement, which took entire possession of me. I could not see enough of him,
or hear enough of him; and all that day I so completely forgot everything which did not concern
him, that I did not even think of moving outside the château. I followed him from room to room,
and kept looking at him, for I felt the need of convincing myself that he was really alive.
As to him, quickly recovering from the very transitory astonishment into which the news of
his supposed death had thrown him, he had resumed that splendid composure, which you remember
in him. He superintended all his little arrangements, and unpacked all his boxes, full of all
sorts of articles from Nubia, whistling all the while fragments of bamboulas which were still
ringing in his ears.

After dinner in the evening, he said to me, stretching out his long legs over the divan, with
the air of a man who loves his ease:

"By Jove, it's very snug here! If you like, we will stay down here several weeks."

"As many weeks as you like, uncle," I answered--"months even!"

"Well done!--But," he continued, "won't you be rather dull?--for, unless you have some little
distraction----"

"Ah!" I exclaimed, remembering all at once my harem; "I forgot to tell you about this little
affair!"

"What affair?" he said. "Have you found your distraction already, then?"

"I should just think I have, uncle!"

"Is she pretty?"

"Why, I have four!"

At this information my uncle did not raise his eyebrows any more than if I had told him that
I was occupying my leisure by practising the rustic flute; he only stretched out his arm, took
my hand and shook it smartly in the English fashion, saying,

"My compliments, my dear fellow!--I beg your pardon for my indiscretion."

"But, my dear uncle, I have quite a long story to tell you!" I added, not without a certain
embarrassment "--and it is your death again that has been the cause of it!"

"How was that? Tell me all about it."

"You know, your Turkish pavilion--Kasre-el-Nouzha?"

"I know, well?"

"Well, four months ago, Mohammed-Azis arrived there."

"Hullo!" he said, "Mohammed?"

"Yes, and you had entrusted him with a--a commission," I continued.

"True," he exclaimed, "I had forgotten that!"

"Well, then, uncle----"

"He had accomplished his commission, I suppose," continued he.

"Yes," I replied. "And as you were dead, and Mohammed's commission formed part of my inheritance
from you, I thought that it was my duty--"

"Bigre!" said my uncle, "you know how to act the heir very well, you do!"

"Why indeed--" I continued, "remember that I could not suppose----"

"In short you've done it," said he, "and it's all over, so don't let us say anything more about
it! And once more, forgive me.--Now that I know all about it, nothing more need be said. Turks
never discuss harem matters. Only," he added, "in order to avoid the necessity of returning
to the subject, let me now recommend you to keep Mohammed; you understand? He knows the run
of the ropes. And in order to make everything safe, as it would not do for me to be seen about
there any more, tell him to come and see me."

"Do you wish me to send for him at once?"

"No, no, to-morrow will do. We have plenty of time.--Come, give me a little music, will you?
Play me something from Verdi--"

And he began to hum in his bass voice, slightly out of tune, snatches from the air:

    "Parigi o cara, noi lasceremo."

We passed a charming evening together, what with conversation, music, and cards. He won three
francs of me at piquet, with a ridiculous display of triumph. About twelve o'clock I took him
to his bedroom. When he was ready to get into bed, he exclaimed:

"Té! I have some securities here which I had forgotten!" And taking a penknife, he proceeded
to cut the stitches of his coat lining, from which he drew out some papers.

"See!" he said, as he held them out to me, "here are seven hundred thousand francs' worth of
bills on London and Paris. You shall get them cashed."

"Very well, uncle," I replied. "And what do you want me to do with the money?"

"Oh, upon my word, that's your affair, my pichoun! You may be sure, now that you have come
into your inheritance, I am not going to be troubled with such matters!"

"Well, at least advise me about them."

"But, my good fellow, that means that I am still to have all the bother about them--. After
all," he continued, "keep the money if you like--it will do for my pocket money."

Thereupon he went to bed, I wished him good night, and was about to leave the room, when he
called me back.

"Come here, André! Write, if you please, to the notary and ask him to come here to-morrow."

"Ah!" I replied, "you're coming round to that at last!"

"I am coming round to nothing whatever!" he exclaimed, in a most decided tone. "Only I want
to know what has become of my camels! As you may guess, I intended to present them to the Zoological
Society. I must have them found! Good night!"

I should certainly annoy you, my dear Louis, if I were to endeavour to impress upon you the
full significance of the amazing events through which I have passed during these four months.
I don't know of a single mortal who has experienced more original adventures. The dreadful
letter from the notary, my installation at Férouzat, my uncle's will, the harem tumbling down
upon me from Turkey, the entering into complete possession of my fortune, and the whole crowned
by the return of the deceased. Certainly you will agree with me that these are incidents which
one does not meet with in everyday life. Nevertheless, if you want to know my ideas about them,
I confess that they seem to me at the present moment to be nothing but the Necessary and the
Contingent of philosophers, in their simplest application. I would go so far as to assert that,
to a nephew of my uncle, things could not fall so to happen, for it would show a want of training
in the most elementary principles of logic, to exhibit surprise at such little adventures,
when once Barbassou-Pasha has been introduced on the scene as Prime Cause. The substratum of
my uncle so powerfully influences my destiny, that to my mind it would seem quite paradoxical
to expect the same things ever to happen to me as to any other man. Cease being astonished,
therefore, at any strange peculiarities in my life, even if they be eccentric enough to shock
a rigidly constituted mind. Like those erratic planets which deviate occasionally from their
course, I move around the remarkable star called Barbassou-Pasha, and he draws me into his
own eccentric orbit. In spite of a semblance of romantic complications among the really simple
facts which I have related to you, I defy you to discover in them the slightest grain of inconsistency.
They can be perfectly well accounted for by the most natural causes and the most ordinary calculations
of common sense. Cease your astonishment, therefore, unless you wish to fall into the lowest
rank in my estimation.

Having postulated the fact that I am the nephew of my uncle, I will now return to the summarising
of my situation. Well, my late uncle had come to life again, but he wanted to keep all the
advantages of his status as a dead man, by obliging me to remain in possession of his property.
I had just said "good night" to him, while he was dreaming about his camels. Nothing could
be less complicated than that. If all that is not in strict conformity with the character of
Barbassou (Claude Anatole), I know nothing about him. Nevertheless, it was only natural that
the day celebrated by his return should give birth to some other incidents of importance.

I had just left my uncle, and was walking towards the library to write at once to the notary,
when Francis informed me that a woman from the Kasre had been waiting an hour to see me. One
of the Greek servants came sometimes to the château, either with messages or to await my orders.
I concluded at once that, not having seen me either during the day or in the evening, my little
animals had grown anxious and were sending to inquire after me. I went to my room, where Francis
said the woman was. As I entered I saw her standing up, motionless, near the window, wrapped
in her great black feridjié; but I had hardly shut the door behind me when, all at once, I
heard a cry and sobs. The feridjié fell down, and I recognised Kondjé-Gul, who threw herself
on to my neck and seized me in her arms with signs of the deepest despair.

"Good gracious!" I said, "is that you? You come here?"

Breathless and suffocated with tears, she could not answer me. I guessed, rather than heard,
these words:

"I have run away! I have come to die with you!"

"But you are mad, dear, quite mad!" I exclaimed. "Why should you die? What has happened then?"

"Oh, we know all!" she continued. "Barbassou-Pasha has returned. He is a terrible man. He is
going to kill you; us also; Mohammed also!"

And raving with fear she clung to me with all her strength, just as if she were already threatened
with death.

"But, my dear child," I said, "this is all madness--who in the world has told you such nonsense?"

"Mohammed. He heard of the Pasha's return--he has hidden himself."

"But my uncle is a very kind man--he adores me, and does not even intend to see you. Nothing
will be changed for us by his return."

Seeing me so calm, she was gradually reassured. Still she was too much possessed by her Turkish
notions to believe all at once in such a departure from correct oriental usages.

"Well then," she said as she dried her tears, "he will only kill Mohammed?"

"Not even Mohammed!" I exclaimed, with a smile. "Mohammed is a poor coward, and I will give
him a bit of my mind to-morrow, so that he shan't worry you with any more nonsense of this kind."

"You don't mean it?" she replied. "Then he will only get a beating?"

I was about to protest, when I perceived by her first words that she suspected I wanted to
play upon her credulity. There was thus a danger of reviving her worst fears, for she would
not believe any more of my assurances. I contented myself therefore with promising to intercede
with Barbassou-Pasha. Once convinced that Mohammed's punishment would extend no further than
his hind-quarters, she troubled herself no more about it, but with the characteristic volatility
of these little wild creatures, began to chatter and examine all the things in my room, touching
and feeling everything with an insatiable curiosity.

"Come now, you must go home," I said to her, not wishing this little excursion of hers to be
discovered.

"Oh, no! Oh, no!" she cried, with childlike delight. "It's your home--do let me look at it!"

"Oh, but you must go and comfort Zouhra, Nazli, and Hadidjé!"

"They are asleep," she said. "I want to stay a little time here alone with you! Besides," she
added, with a little frightened look still lingering on her face, "suppose Barbassou-Pasha
has been deceiving you, suppose he is coming to kill you to-night?"

"But once more I tell you, dear, you are mad!"

"Well then, why send me back so soon?"

"Because it is not proper for you to leave the harem," I answered. "Come along, off you go!"

"Oh, just a little longer!--I beg you, dear!" she said, with a kiss.

How could I resist her, my dear Louis? Tell me?

I sat down, watching her moving about and rummaging everywhere. I must tell you that under
her feridjié (which she had let down on my entrance into the room), she was dressed in a sort
of loose gown of pale blue cashmere, embroidered with lively designs in silk and gold. Her
snow-white arms emerged from wide, hanging sleeves. This costume produced a charming picturesque
effect in the midst of my room, which, although comfortable, was very prosaic in its style--although
to her it seemed wonderful. She touched everything, for she could not be satisfied with seeing
only, and her questions never ceased.... At last, after half-an-hour, considering her curiosity
to be satisfied, as she was beginning to ransack the books lying on my table, I said once more,

"Come, Kondjé-Gul, you must go."

With these words, I picked up her feridjié, and took her back to the harem. A pale light was
shining through the windows of the drawing-room. Hadidjé, Nazli, and Zouhra were still there.
To describe the terror which came over their faces directly I appeared, would be impossible.
Hearing steps in the night, they made sure their last moments had arrived. At the sound of
the door opening, they cried out loud--the three poor miserable things took refuge in a corner.

When they saw me enter with Kondjé-Gul, they were thrown into a great consternation. With a
few words I reassured them at once.

As to Mohammed, it was impossible to find him. I will confess, moreover, that I felt very little
interest in searching for him--I was far from ill-pleased with the thought that he was paying
for the trouble which his stupidity had caused my poor darlings, by a night of fear and trembling.

My lamb having returned to the fold, I eventually retraced my steps to the château.

Is it necessary to tell you that the surprising events of the day had caused me emotions which
I was scarcely able to understand?

My uncle's resurrection--

Lefébure--

The Changallas--

The camels--

They all kept my brain at work the whole night long.

CHAPTER IV.

I apologise, my dear Louis, for having left you a month without a letter from me, as you reproach
me somewhat severely. You are not afraid, I should hope, that my friendship for you has cooled.
The real cause of my silence is that I have had nothing to tell you. The even tenor of my existence
permits only of daily repetitions of the same very simple events. My affections being divided
between my harem and my uncle Barbassou, I revel in the tranquillity of the fields and woods,
which afford to my mind that quiet freedom which is always more or less disturbed by the excited
atmosphere of city life.

Do not imagine, however, that we have been living like monastics, disdaining all worldly distractions:
the governor is not the man to lead the existence of a Carthusian monk. He is as much on horseback
as on foot. In the daytime we make hunting excursions; he visits his "god-children" and my
estates: you may rely upon it, I have got an active steward in him! In the evening we receive
our friends at the château--the vicar, the Morands, father and son, and, twice a week, the
notary. We play whist at penny points, and very lively games of piquet--only the latter not
so often, as my uncle cheats at it. About eleven o'clock the carriages are got ready to take
these people home. I then accompany my uncle to his room, and we talk over business matters,
and about my fiancée; for, of course, my marriage with his "god-daughter" is an understood
thing, and we have not even a notion of discussing the question. Finally, when he gets sleepy,
he goes to bed, and I go off to El-Nouzha.

Besides these occupations we have another very serious one, namely, rummaging among the mass
of curios which he heaped up together in the lumber-room of the château.

"Ah, André!" my uncle said to me one day, with the reproachful accent of a faithful steward,
"you have a lot of fine things up there which you are very foolish to leave in that lumber-hole.
If I were you, I would have them all out!"

"Let us get them all out then at once, uncle," I answered.

Thereupon we set to work sorting them out, and you have no idea of the things we found--valuable
paintings, works of art, rare old furniture, and arms of all countries. You will see what a
museum they constitute, if you make an excursion down here, as you have promised. Really, for
an artist of your genius, this alone would be worth the journey.

We also pay visits at the two neighbouring châteaux of the Montanbecs and the Camboulions;
but confine ourselves strictly to the customary conventionalities between neighbours, the female
element which we encounter at these places belonging, as my uncle puts it, to the very lowest
zoological order of beings.

Once a week we dine at Doctor Morand's. He is a man of great ability, who has only missed making
his mark through want of a wider field. He is the one mortal capable of exercising an influence
over Captain Barbassou, if the character of the latter did not place him out of reach of all
external control. In this home family life reigns in its happiest and most charming simplicity,
represented by a goodly quiver-full of children. I have already told you about young Morand,
the spahi, and his cousin Geneviève.

Geneviève, with her nineteen summers, is the eldest, by several years, of a prolific brood,
the offspring of her mother's second marriage. The doctor, who is a rich man for his district,
took them all to live with him after his sister's death. A more delightful and refreshing place
cannot be found than this heaven-blest home, the very atmosphere of which breathes the odour
of peaceful happiness and honest purity. You should see Geneviève, la grande, surrounded by
her four petits, her brothers and sisters, with their chubby faces, all neat and clean, obedient
and cheeky at the same time, and kept in order by her with a youthful discipline, flavoured
now and then with a spice of playfulness. Is she really pretty? I confess I cannot decide.
The question of beauty in her case is so completely put out of mind by a certain charm of manner,
that one forgets to analyse it. She has certainly fine eyes, for they hold you spell-bound
by the soul shining through them. George Morand, her fiancé, adores her, and, headstrong Africain
though he is, even he feels an influence within her which subjugates his fiery spirit. They
could not be a better match for each other, and will live happily together. She will chasten
the exuberant ardour of the Provençal warrior.

My uncle professes to detest "the brats;" it is needless, perhaps, to add that, directly he
arrives, the whole of them rush to him, climb on his knees, and stay there for the rest of
his visit. He is their horse; he makes boats for them, and all the rest of it. The other day
you might have seen him grumbling as he sewed a button on Toto's drawers (which he had torn
off by turning him head over heels), fearing lest Geneviève should scold him.

I am very cordially welcomed by the whole house, and you may imagine what interminable discussions
the doctor and I carry on. Having been formerly a professor in the School of Medicine at Montpellier,
he was led by his researches in physiology to a very pronounced materialism. Now that he has
read my spiritualistic articles, he tries hard to break down my arguments. On the third side,
my uncle, as a Mahometan, wants to convert him to deism; you may judge from this how much harmony
there is between us; you might take us for an Academy!

At El-Nouzha the same life goes on still; but I must take this opportunity of correcting a
dangerous mistake you appear to have fallen into, to judge from the tone of your letters. In
everything that concerns my harem, you really speak as if you had in mind the fantastic and
tantalising experiences of a second blessed Saint Anthony, exposed to the continual provocations
of the most voluptuous beauties of the Court of Satan. Indeed, one might say (between you and
me and the post), that your Holiness was less scared than inquisitive regarding these terrible
scorchings. You old sinner! The real truth is that everything becomes a habit after a while,
and that, now the first effervescence of passion is over, this life grows much more simple
than you imagine. You must not believe that we lead a riotous existence of continual lusts
and orgies. Such notions, my dear fellow, are only the fruit of ignorance and of prejudice.

Let me tell you that my harem is to me at the present time a most tranquil home, and that,
but for the fact that I have four wives, everything about it has permanently assumed the every-day
aspect of a simple household. Our evenings are spent in conversation round the drawing-room
table with music and dancing, conducted in a thoroughly amiable and cheerful spirit, and all
set off by the accomplishments of my sultanas. I combine in my conjugal relations the dignified
oriental bearing of a vizir with the tender sentimentalities of a Galaor, and in this I have
really attained to an exquisite perfection.

In fact, it would be the Country of Love in the Paradise of Mahomet, but for a few clouds which,
since my uncle's return, have obscured the bright rays of my honeymoon. I have had some trouble
with Hadidjé and Nazli, who seem determined to make a trip over to the château as Kondjé-Gul
had done; for, as might have been foreseen, as soon as her alarms had subsided, this silly
creature, with the view no doubt of exciting their jealousy, and posing as the favourite, had
taken care to relate to them all the wonders of this, to them, forbidden place. Of course I
refused at once to permit such an irregularity, contrary as it was to all harem traditions.
This refusal was the signal for a scene of tears and jealous passions, which I subdued, but
which only gave way to the tender reproaches of slighted affections. Well, I try to jog along
as well as I can, as all husbands have to do, but I have a vague presentiment of troubles still
in the air.

I have reopened my letter.

I hope you won't be astonished, my dear fellow, but--I have another piece of news relating
to Barbassou-Pasha.

The day before yesterday, while my uncle and I were chatting together, as is our custom, before
he went to bed, I observed that he yawned in an unusual manner. I had remarked this symptom
before, and I drew my own conclusion from it, which was that overtaken once more by his adventurous
instincts, he was beginning to find life tedious in the department of Le Gard,--he was longing
for something or other, that was certain! And I began ransacking my mind to find some new food
upon which he might exercise his all-devouring energy, when he said to me, just before I left him--

"By the bye, André, I have written to your aunt that I am returned. She will probably arrive
some time between now and the end of the week."

"Ah!" I replied; "well, uncle, that's capital! I shall be delighted to have our family life
back again."

"Yes, the house will seem really furnished then," he continued. "Well, good night, my boy!"

"Good night, uncle."

Then I left him.

Now, although this legitimate conjugal desire of my uncle's was quite rational on his part,
you may nevertheless imagine that I went to bed rather puzzled. Which of my aunts should I
see arrive? My uncle had acquainted me with this design in such an artless manner that it never
occurred to me to venture any question on the subject. I began therefore to form conjectures
based upon his present frame of mind, as to which of his wives he had probably selected.

I commenced by setting aside my aunt Cora, of the Isle of Bourbon. It was not very likely that
the Pasha wanted to add to his past ontological researches upon the coloured races. Excluding
also my aunt Christina de Postero, whose adventure with Jean Bonaffé had brought her into disgrace,
there remained only my aunt Lia Ben Lévy, my aunt Gretchen Van Cloth, and my aunt Eudoxie de
Cornalis, so that the question was now considerably narrowed. Still I must confess that it
was not much use my setting all my powers of induction to work, taking as my premises the captain's
age, his present tastes, his plans, &c. All I succeeded in doing was to lose myself in a maze
of affirmations and contradictions from which I could find no way out. The best thing to be
done was to wait. So I waited.

I had not long to wait for that matter. Two days after, while I was in my room, I saw a carriage
drive up. Its only occupant was a lady, who seemed to me to be very handsome and very elegantly
dressed. On the box, by the coachman's side, sat a lady's maid; behind were two men-servants
of superior style in their travelling livery. The carriage stopped. At the sound of the wheels
on the gravel, my uncle's window opened.

"Hoi! is that you?" he shouted. "How are you, my dear!"

"How are you, captain!" replied the lady. "You see you have not been forgotten, you ungrateful
wretch!"

"Thanks for that. Nor am I any more forgetful on my side."

"That's all right," replied the lady; "but why don't you come down and give me a hand? You're
very gallant!"

"Well, my dear, I'm coming as fast as I can!" said my uncle.

I must confess I still remained somewhat puzzled at the sight of this fair traveller, whose
appearance did not recall to me any of my aunts. Could Barbassou-Pasha have contracted another
marriage since the date of his will? Out of delicacy I kept out of the way, in order not to
disturb their affectionate greetings, but as my uncle passed my door on his way out, he said to me,

"André, aren't you coming?" I followed him. We arrived just as the lady was stepping briskly
up the doorsteps.

"Too late, captain!" she said, "I could not stay there, penned up in that carriage."

This reproach did not prevent them from shaking hands very heartily. Then as I came up, my
uncle said in his quick way,

"Kiss your aunt Eudoxia!"

At this injunction I forthwith embraced my aunt, and I must admit that as I kissed her I could
not repress a smile, recollecting this sacramental phrase of my uncle's.

"My goodness! is that André?" she exclaimed, "Oh! excuse me, sir," she continued rapidly; "this
familiar name slipped from my tongue, at remembrance of the bonny boy of old times."

"Pray take it for granted, madam!" I answered.

"Then don't call me madam!"

"What does that matter, my aunt; to obey you I shall be delighted to return to old times."

"Very well then, my nephew," she added; "see that my servants are looked after, and then let
us come in!"

All this was said in that free-and-easy tone which denotes aristocratic breeding, and with
so much of the assurance of a woman accustomed to the best society, that I was for a moment
almost taken aback by it. My early impressions of her had only left in my mind confused recollections
of an amiable and fascinating young woman (so far as I could judge at that age), and now my
aunt suddenly appeared in a character which I had not at all anticipated. Assuredly I should
never have recognised her, although time had not at all impaired the beauty of her face.

I will therefore draw her portrait afresh. Picture to yourself a woman of about thirty-five,
although her real age is forty-two. Her figure exhibits a decided embonpoint, but this detracts
not in the least from its gracefulness, for she is a tall woman, and has also quite a patrician
style about her. Her erect head, and the profound dignity of her expression--everything about
her in fact--might be taken to denote a haughty nature, were it not for that extreme simplicity
of manner which appears natural to her. Notwithstanding the firmness of her language, the tone
in which it is uttered is as soft as velvet, and her light, musical accent suggests the frank
and easy bearing of a Russian lady of high rank.

Such is the description of my aunt.

My uncle had offered her his arm. As soon as we entered the drawing-room, she said, while taking
off her hat:

"Ah, now you must at once explain to me this story of your death, which I received from a notary.
For six months I have been fancying myself a widow!"

"You can see that there's nothing in it," replied my uncle.

"That's nice!" she exclaimed, laughing and holding her hand out to him a second time. "Another
of your eccentricities, I suppose!"

"Not in the least, my dear; André here can tell you that I positively passed for a dead man,
and that he went into mourning for me. He has even entered into the possession of my property
as my heir."

"It's an ill wind that blows nobody any good," she answered; "but how was it that they put
you in the grave by mistake? I am curious to know."

"I was in Abyssinia."

"Close by, is it?" asked she, interrupting him.

"Yes," continued my uncle. "A friend who was travelling with me, stayed behind at a place on
our way, while I went forward, and he managed to die in such a stupid and ill-timed manner
that, as my baggage was with him, it was from my papers that his certificate of death was made
out. It was only on my return here, five months later, that I learnt that I had been taken
for dead. You see what a simple story it is."

"Well, of course," said my aunt, "such things are quite a common occurrence! That will teach
you the result of not taking me with you on your travels. Was it also on account of this trip
in Abyssinia that I have not seen you for two years? Oh stop, my dear nephew!" she added in
an engaging tone, "a family scene is an instructive event; it forms----. Go on, captain, answer
me."

"Two years?" replied my uncle. "Is it really two years?"

"Consult your log-books, if they have not been buried with your friend."

"Ah! forgive me, dear Eudoxia, I have had during all this time most important business."

"Yes," continued my aunt, "we all know what important business you have; I've heard some fine
accounts of you. Do you know what Lord Clifden told me at St. Petersburg three months ago,
while complimenting me upon my widow's mourning, which, by the way, suited me extremely well?
He told me that during your lifetime you had been a bigamist."

"What a likely story!" exclaimed my uncle, boldly.

"He assured me that he had seen you at Madras with a Spanish woman, you old traitor! She was
young and pretty, and passed openly by the name of Señora Barbassou. It was surely not worth
while making me elope with you, in order that you might treat me in this fashion!"

"Lord Clifden told you a story, my dear, and a very silly story too. I hope you did not believe
a word of it?"

"Upon my word, you are such an eccentric character, you know!" she answered, with a laugh.

"And what have you been doing yourself?" continued my uncle, whose coolness had not deserted
him for an instant; "where have you been?"

"Oh, if I were to reckon back to the day you left me, I should lose myself!" replied my aunt.
"A year ago, at this season, I was on my estate in the Crimea, where I vegetated for five months;
then I spent the winter at St. Petersburg, and the spring at my château in Corfu, where I had
the advantage of a comfortable place in which to mourn over you. Finally I had been two months
at Vienna, when I received from my steward eight days ago the letter in which you did me the
honour of informing me both of your resurrection and of your desire to see me. I quickly made
my farewell calls, started off, and here I am! Now," she added, holding out a plaid to him,
"if you will kindly allow me to change these travelling clothes, you will make my happiness
complete."

"I am waiting to take you to your room," replied my uncle.

"Nephew," she said to me with a curtsey, "prepare to minister to my caprices; I have plenty
of them when I love.--In return let me say to you, Take it for granted."

They left the room, and I felt quite astonished at the way they greeted each other. You can
already understand the effect which my aunt must have produced on me, and I was no less surprised
at the new traits which I discovered in my uncle's character. A complete revolution had been
effected. He became all at once very natty in his dress. His rough straggling beard was trimmed
in the Henri IVth style, and his moustaches were twirled up at the ends. He left off swearing;
his language and his manners at once assumed the most correct tone, without constraint or embarrassment,
and with a modulation so natural, that it seemed really to indicate a very long familiarity
with fashionable practice. He had not made a single slip. His frank gallantry had nothing artificial
about it; he was another man, and it was quite evident this was the only man that Eudoxie de
Cornalis had ever known him to be.

"Well! what do you think of your aunt?" he asked me as he came in after five minutes' absence.

"She is charming, uncle, and as gracious as possible!"

"Did you expect to find her a monkey, then?" he exclaimed.

"Certainly not!" I replied. "But my aunt might have been beauty itself, and still have lacked
the character and the intellectual qualities which I observe in her."

"Oh, you can't at all judge of her yet!" continued he, in a careless tone. "You'll see what
I mean later on. She's a real woman!"

My aunt did not come down again until luncheon-time. Her appearance created quite an atmosphere
of cheerful society in the dining-room, usually occupied only by my uncle and his nephew. My
uncle was no doubt conscious of the same impression, for leaning towards me, he said to me
in his inimitably cool manner, and in a low voice,

"Don't you see how everything brightens up already?"

My aunt sat down, and as she took off her gloves, cast her eyes over the table, the sideboards,
the servants in waiting, and the general arrangements of the dining-room.

"François," she said to my uncle's old man-servant, "please send the gardener to me at four
o'clock."

"Yes, Madame la Comtesse."

"And then send the steward, whom I do not see here."

"Oh, I am the steward!" replied my uncle.

"That's capital! My compliments to you," she continued; "I might have known it."

"All the same, I fancy I perform my duties very well: is not this new furniture to your taste?"

"Not only so, but I find it very handsome, and I appreciate your antiquarian passion for rare
and choice objects; only there is a want of life about it. What are those great vases, may
I ask, whose enormous mouths stand empty to receive the dust?"

"Those Mandarins!" said my uncle; "they come from the palace of the Emperor of China."

"Oh, the men, the men!" exclaimed my aunt with a laugh: "if they were in Paradise they would
forget to contemplate the Eternal! Now, captain, my lord and spouse, pray tell me of what use
to you are beds full of flowers, if you never rejoice your eyes with the sight of them?"

The luncheon went off charmingly and merrily. As she chatted with us, my aunt signalled to
Francis and gave him her instructions for those innumerable comforts which a woman only can
think of. My uncle, as if by enchantment, found everything ready to hand; before he had time
to ask for anything to drink, he found his glass filled. We had not been accustomed to this
kind of service. When we left the table my aunt said,

"Let us take a turn in the grounds."

She took my arm and we started off. I won't trouble you with a description of this walk, in
the course of which my aunt and I succeeded in improving our acquaintance. We soon grew to
understand each other thoroughly. With supreme tact, and without apparent design on her part,
she had led me on by discreet questions to give her, before a quarter of an hour had passed,
a complete catalogue from A. to Z. of all my studies, my tastes, and my pursuits, including
of course my youthful escapades, which made her smile more than once.

In this outpouring I excepted, as you may be sure, the revelations of my career as a pasha.
My uncle walked close to us, but left us to talk together. One might have thought that he was
resuming his marital duties, interrupted only the evening before, without their course having
been disturbed by any appreciable incident. All at once, we arrived at the foot-path which
leads to the Turkish house.

"Ah! let us go into Kasre-El-Nouzha!" said my aunt.

At this I glanced at my uncle with an air of distress; he, without wincing in the least, said:

"The communicating door is walled up. Kasre-El-Nouzha is let."

"Let!" she exclaimed; "To whom?"

"To an important personage, Mohammed-Azis, a friend of mine from Constantinople. You do not
know him."

"You ungrateful wretch!" she continued with a laugh: "that's the way you observe my memory, is it?"

She did not press the subject. You may guess what a relief that was to me.

After we had strolled about the grounds for an hour, my aunt Eudoxia had made a complete conquest
of me. But although everything about her excited my curiosity, I had put very few questions
to her, not wishing from motives of delicacy to appear entirely ignorant of her history; such
ignorance, indeed, would have appeared strange in a nephew. She seemed quite disposed, however,
to answer all my questions without any fencing, and to treat me as an intimate friend. What
I felt most surprised at was the attitude of my uncle, who had never said any more to me about
her than about my aunt Cora of Les Grands Palmiers. There reigned betwixt them the affectionate
manners of the happiest possible couple; they discussed the past, and I could see that their
union had never been weakened or affected, notwithstanding my uncle's Mahometan proceedings,
which she really appears never to have suspected. I discovered that she had accompanied him
on board his ship, during several of his voyages, and that two years back he had stayed six
months with her at Corfu. As for him, he talked in such a completely innocent manner, betokening
such a pure conscience, that I came to the conclusion he was probably on just as good a footing
with all his other spouses, and that he would not have been the least bit more embarrassed
with my aunt Van Cloth, had she chanced to turn up.

When we returned to the château, my aunt asked me to have some letters posted for her. I went
to her room to take them from her; she had found time to write half-a-dozen for all parts of
the world. While she was sealing them, I had a look at the numerous articles with which she
had filled and garnished her boudoir. There were on the table flowers in vases, books and albums;
on the mantelpiece, several portraits arranged on little gilt easels, among which was a splendid
miniature of a young, handsome man, in Turkish costume embroidered with gold, and having on
his head a fez ornamented with an egret of precious stones.

"Do you recognise this gentleman," said my aunt, as I was stooping to look at it more closely.

"What!" I exclaimed; "Can that be my uncle?"

"The very man, dressed up as a great mamamouchi. It is a great curiosity, for you are aware
of his Turkish notions on the subject. According to these, one ought not to have one's image made."

"Upon my word, that's quite true," I said; "it is the first portrait I have seen of him."

"I have every reason for believing that it is the only one," she replied with a smile; "this
was the most difficult victory I ever won over him."

We then began to discuss my uncle and his eccentricities, combined with his remarkable talents.
She related to me some events and features in his life which would not be out of place in the
legend of a hero of antiquity; amongst other matters she told me the story of their marriage,
which runs briefly as follows:--

My aunt, a daughter of one of the richest and noblest Greek families, lived with her father
at a castle in Thessaly, a country which is partly Mahometan. During the feast of Bairam, the
Turks commenced a massacre of Christians, which lasted three days. Several families, taking
refuge in a church, had fortified themselves there, and with their servants were defending
themselves desperately against their assailants. The assassins had already broken open the
door of the sanctuary, and were about to cut all their throats, when suddenly a man came galloping
up, followed by a few soldiers. He struck right and left with his scimitar in the thick of
the crowd outside, and reached the doorway, causing his horse to rear up on the pavement. He
slays some, and terrifies all. The Christians are saved!

This cavalier with his scimitar was my uncle, who was then in command of the province. The
unhappy wretches who had escaped assassination pressed about him, and surrounded him; the girls
and the women threw themselves at his feet. My aunt was one of these unfortunates; she was
then fifteen years old, and as beautiful as noonday. You may guess how her imagination was
wrought on by the sight of this noble saviour. My uncle on his side was thunderstruck by the
contemplation of so much beauty. Having to judge and punish the rebels, he established his
head-quarters in the castle of the Cornalis. He sentenced twenty persons to death, and demanded
Eudoxia's hand in marriage. This, notwithstanding his gratitude, the father refused to grant
to a Turkish general.

The lovers were desperate, and separated, exchanging vows of eternal fidelity. Finally, after
three months of correspondence and clandestine meetings, an elopement ensued, followed up quickly
by marriage. It was as the sequence of this event that my uncle, induced by love, and moreover
disgraced again for having exercised too much justice in favour of the Christians, finally
quitted the service of the Sultan. His pardon by the Cornalis followed, and it was at this
time that he obtained from the Pope the title of Count of the Holy Empire.

All this will serve to explain to you how it is that my aunt, as an heiress of great wealth,
possesses in her own right a very large independent fortune in the Crimea.

We have now been living together for a fortnight, and during this time Férouzat has been completely
transformed. My aunt Eudoxia is certainly very meublante, as my uncle calls it, and she has
brought into the house quite an attractive element of brightness. She has naturally introduced
into our circle a certain amount of etiquette, which does not, however, encroach upon the liberties
of country life, or disturb that easy-going elegance which forms one of the charms of existence
among well-bred people. The Countess of Monteclaro, as might well have been foreseen, having
already been intimately acquainted with Doctor Morand, begins to take a most friendly interest
in Mademoiselle Geneviève. As a consequence, Geneviève and the children spend almost all their
time at the château. In the evenings we have gatherings to which all the young people of the
neighbourhood are invited; my aunt, who is an excellent musician, organises concerts, and we
generally finish up with a dance.

These worldly recreations afford me a clearer insight into the analytical details of my oriental
life, which is now more than ever enveloped in the profoundest mystery. I have invented a story
of important botanical studies upon the flora of Provence, in order to justify certain daily
excursions which naturally terminate in El-Nouzha. It is well-known, moreover, that I sometimes
visit His Excellency Mohammed-Azis, but with the discretion which respect for a great misfortune
naturally entails. The exiled minister is no longer even discussed among us; everybody knows
that "he shuts himself up like a bear in his den," and there is an end of it.

My aunt is the perfection of a woman. Nothing can be more delightful than our conversations.
Her manner partakes both of the indulgence of a mother and of the unrestrained intimacy of
a friend. She still remembers the child she used to dance upon her knees; and, although I had
for a long while forgotten her very existence, my present affection for her is none the less
sincere because it is of such recent growth. I must confess that, after my confined existence
at school and college, I am delighted with these pleasures of home life, to which I was until
lately quite a stranger.

My aunt, as you may guess, is acquainted with my uncle's famous plan for the future, and knows
Anna Campbell, the Pasha's god-daughter. You should hear her chaff him anent this god-fathership,
on the strength of which she claims that the captain has returned to the bosom of the Church
without knowing it. She tells me that Anna is a charming girl. Thus petted and entertained,
I live in other respects very much as I like, and sometimes pass the whole day in the library.
I should add that my aunt, who is as sharp as a weasel, makes her own comments upon my frequent
absences from the château.

"André," she asked me the other day with a smile, "is your 'Botany' dark or fair?"

"Fair, my dear aunt," I answered, laughing as she did.

In the midst of all this the Pasha, still emulating one of the Olympian gods, proceeds on his
course with that tranquillity of spirit which never forsakes him. Two days ago, who should
come down upon us but Rabassu, his lieutenant, the Rabassu whom my uncle has always called
his "murderer." He has brought home "La Belle Virginie" from Zanzibar with a cargo of cinnamon;
for, as you are aware, we (or rather I) still trade in spices. Being now the head of the firm,
I have to sell off the last consignments. Rabassu heard of the resurrection of Barbassou-Pasha
directly he arrived at Toulon. He hurried off to us quite crestfallen, and when he met the
captain literally trembled at the thought of the hurricane he would now have to face. But everything
passed off very satisfactorily. My uncle interrupted his first mutterings of apology with a
gentle growl, and contented himself with chaffing him for his infantine credulity.

However, this incident has revived the vexed question of the camels. "Where are they?" asks
the captain. Having promised to send them to the Zoological Gardens at Marseilles, he feels
his honour is at stake; they must be found. I support him in this view; my inherited property
is of course incomplete without them. Urgent letters on the subject have just been despatched
to his friend Picklock, and to the officer in command at Aden. If necessary, a claim will be
lodged against England; she is undoubtedly responsible for them.

In my next letter I will tell you all the news relating to El-Nouzha from the time when I last
interrupted this interesting part of my narrative. My houris are making progress, and their
education is improving. We are going on swimmingly.

CHAPTER V.

The Turks are calumniated, my friend, there's no doubt about it. It is not enough for us to
say and to believe, with the vulgar herd, that these turbaned people are wallowing in materialism
and are not civilised; we must do more than this, and convict them of their errors. We, fortified
with a singular infatuation in our ideas, our habits, and our personal associations, venture
to settle by our sovereign decrees the loftiest questions of sentiment. The rules to be observed
by the perfect lover in the courtship and treatment of his lady-love, have been settled at
tournaments, by the Courts of Love of Isaure, and by the College of the Gay Science. Our pretensions
to troubadourism have never been abandoned. The affectations of "L'Astrée" have been erected
into a code of Love, and we have succeeded in establishing the French cavalier as the paragon
of excellence in love matters, and the perfect type of gallantry. The saying "to die for one's
lady-love" rises so naturally to our lips that the most insignificant cornet might warble it
to his Célimène without causing her to smile.

You will nevertheless admit, I hope, that we ought to discard a few of these absurd expressions.
That we know how to make love is not much to boast about, after all. The only important point
for us as philosophers is to know whether our ideal is really the higher ideal--whether our
treatment of woman is really more worthy both of her and of ourselves than the pagan treatment
which prevails among the Eastern nations? Here at once crops up the elementary dispute between
the votaries of polygamy and monogamy. Both these institutions are based upon divine and human
laws, both are written down and defined in moral codes, and in sacred books. One takes its
origin in the Bible, and remains faithful to its traditions; the other has developed at some
period, from the simple conventions of a new social order. We must not conclude that we alone
possess the knowledge of absolute truth, merely because our conceit postulates for us the superiority
of our time-honoured civilisation. All wisdom proceeds from God alone, and truth is for us
only relative to place, time, and habit. Was not Jacob, when he married at the same time Leah
and Rachel, the daughters of Laban, nearer than we are now to the primitive sentiment of the
laws of nature and of revelation? Do you presume to blame him, insignificant being that you
are, because yielding to the supplication of his beloved Rachel he espoused--somewhat superfluously
it may be--her handmaid Bala, with the simple object of having a son by her? In presence of
this idyl of the patriarchal age, what becomes of all our theories, our ideas, and our prejudices,
the fruits after all of a hollow and worthless education?

You will not, I trust, do me the wrong of believing that I, wavering in my faith, intend forthwith
to abandon the principles in which I was brought up. But a subject so serious as the one I
have been devoting myself to, demands the most frank and honest examination. I will not deliver
a judgment; I will merely state the facts. Now it is an established fact that the people who
permit by their laws a plurality of wives are, even at the present time, far more numerous
than the monogamists. Statistics prove that out of the thousand million inhabitants of this
globe, Christianity with all its sects, and Judaism thrown in, does not number more than two
hundred and sixty millions according to Balbi, or two hundred and forty millions according
to the London Bible Society.

Since the remainder, consisting of Mahometans, Buddhists, Fire-worshippers, and Idolaters,
all practise polygamy more or less, it follows that on this globe of ours, the monogamists
constitute one-fourth only of the whole population. Such is the naked, unadorned truth!

Are we wrong? Are they right? It is not my business to decide this point. Philosophers and
theologians far more patient than I am, have given it up as a bad job. Voltaire, with his subtle
genius, settled the question in his own characteristic fashion, by supposing that an imaginary
God had from the beginning decreed an inequality in this matter, regulated by geographical
situation, in these words:--

"I shall draw a line from Mount Caucasus to Egypt, and from Egypt to Mount Atlas; all men dwelling
to the east of this line shall be permitted to marry several wives, while those to the west
of it shall have one only."

And, as a matter of fact, it is so.

But having disposed of this important point, there remains a loftier question for us to elucidate--one
consisting entirely of sentiment. The treatment of woman being our only objective, our present
business is to decide on which side of the line its character is the most respectful, the most
worthy and the most flattering towards her. Certainly our doctrine is purer, our law more divine.
Nevertheless, as sincere judges, we ought, perhaps, to examine and see whether we do not transgress
against our absolute principles. And I must confess that I cannot now approach this delicate
question without some misgiving. In the judgment of every tribunal, the case of polygamy is
a hopelessly bad one. That I am ready to admit; but might it not be urged against the other
side that in practice the court knows very well that the law is not observed? What judge can
be found, however austere, who has never offended against it? To sum the matter up briefly
(whispering low our confessions, if you like), what man is there among us--I am not talking
of Don Juans, who catalogue their amours, nor of Lovelaces, but of ordinary men of say thirty
years old--who can remember how many mistresses he has had? What, is this the monogamy we have
been making such a flourish about?

Perhaps you will say that we need not see in these irregularities anything more than a sort
of licensed depravity, tolerated for the sake of maintaining a virtuous ideal. But consider
the fatal consequences of this hypocrisy. What becomes of our aspirations of the age of twenty,
of our dreams and poetic fancies, after we have plunged into these wretched connections, these
degrading, promiscuous attachments which form the current of our present habits, and from which
we emerge at the age of thirty, sceptics, and with hearts and souls tarnished? What do we reap
from these frenzies of unhealthy passion, but contempt for woman, and disbelief in anything
virtuous?

For the Turk there is no such thing as illegitimate love, and woman is the object of absolute
respect. Never having more than one master, she cannot fall in his esteem. Having been bought
as a slave, she becomes a wife directly she sets foot in the harem; her rights are sacred,
and she cannot any more be abandoned. The laws protect her; she has a recognised position,
a title; her children are legitimate, and if by chance--

I suspend this philosophical digression, in order to inform you of a momentous occurrence.
El-Nouzha has just been the scene of a sanguinary drama. A rebellion has broken out among my
sultanas.

My harem is on strike.

You will ask me how this storm came to break upon me just as I was settling down into the most
innocent and tranquil frame of mind? It can only be explained by a retrospective survey of
certain domestic circumstances, which the changes that have been going on at Férouzat had caused
me to overlook.

You will not have forgotten the terrible commotion caused in my harem by the news of my uncle's
resurrection. My poor houris, dreading some fatal drama of the usual Turkish character, had
indeed passed through a cruel time of distress and anguish. When their alarms were dissipated,
a revival of animation soon manifested itself in their spirits; but, as ill-luck would have
it, and as I have told you, one little detail of this day's proceedings, unimportant as it
appeared at the time, was destined to disturb their harmony, so perfect hitherto, and to arouse
their jealousies. Kondjé-Gul had been to the château, and a silly ambition to attempt the same
freak had got into the heads of Nazli and Zouhra. I at once expressed a decided opposition
to this childish scheme; but, of course, from the moment it met with opposition, it developed
into a fixed purpose.

Within the limited circle of ideas in which they move, their imaginations had been excited--curiosity,
the attractions of forbidden fruit. The long and the short of it was that, at the sight of
their genuine disappointment--a disappointment aggravated by continual and jealous suspicions
of a preference on my part for Kondjé-Gul--I had almost made up my mind to yield for one occasion,
when my aunt arrived, which at once put an end to any thought of such good-natured but weak
concessions.

I imagined myself to be armed now with an overwhelming reason for refusing their request, but
it turned out quite otherwise. When they heard that my uncle's wife was at the château, they
asked to be allowed to make her acquaintance. They said that they were really bound as cadines,
according to Turkish custom, to pay their respects to my uncle's wife, "whom her position as
legitimate spouse places hierarchically above us." I got over this difficulty by telling them
that my aunt, being a Christian, was forbidden by her creed to have any intercourse with Mussulmans.

What especially distinguishes the Turkish woman, my dear Louis, from the woman whose character
has been fashioned by our own remarkable civilisation, is the instinctive, inborn respect which
she always preserves and observes towards man. Man is the master and the lord, she is his servant,
and she would never dream of setting herself up as his equal. The Koran on this point has hardly
at all modified the biblical traditions. Unfortunately for me, I must confess that in my household
I have disregarded the law of Islam. Inspired by a higher ideal, you will understand, without
my mentioning it, that my first object has been to abolish slavery from my harem, by inculcating
into the minds of my houris principles more in conformity with the Christianity which I profess.
I wished, like a modern Prometheus, to kindle the divine spark in these young and beautiful
barbarians, whose minds are still wrapped up in their oriental superstitions. I wished to elevate
their souls, to cultivate their minds, and in short, to make them my free companions and no
longer my helots.

I may assert with pride that I have been partially successful in my task. Three months of this
treatment had hardly elapsed before all traces of servile subordination had disappeared. With
this faculty for metamorphosis existing in them, which all women possess, but which is for
ever denied to us men, and thanks above all to the revelations of our customs and habits contained
in novels of my selection, which Kondjé-Gul read to them during my hours of absence, and to
which they listened with admiration (for they were eager to know all about this world of ours,
which was as yet unknown to them), I soon obtained a charming combination. Their strange exotic
mixture of oriental graces, blending happily with efforts to imitate the refinements of our
civilisation, their artless tokens of ignorance, their coquettish and feline instincts, their
voluptuous bearing in process of attempted transformation into bashful reserve, all these phenomena
afforded me the most delightful subject for study ever entered on by a philosopher.

Nevertheless, I must admit that the education of their intellects did not keep pace with the
cultivation of their ideas, but rendered them still liable to commit a number of solecisms.
I had an interest, moreover, in keeping them in a certain degree of ignorance of the actual
laws of our own world. Imbued with their native ideas, their credulity accepted without hesitation,
everything which I chose to tell them about "the customs of the harems of France," and they
conformed to them without making any pretence to further knowledge of them. None the less,
there began to grow up in their minds ideas of independence and self-will, the natural consequences
of the elevation effected in their sentiments. The notion of a truer and more tender love was
used by them henceforth as a weapon against my absolute authority. Only too happy to be treated
as a lover rather than a master, I did not feel any loss in this respect: love is kept alive
by these numberless little stratagems of a woman, who loves and desires--yet desires not--and
so forth. And then, you must remember, I had four wives.

They on their part, having no aims, no ambitions, but to please me, the sole object of their
common love, each tried to effect my conquest in order to obtain the advantage over her rivals--an
emulation of which I experienced all the charms. Notwithstanding the fact that I distributed
my affections with a rare impartiality, I could not always prevent the occurrence of jealous
quarrels among them. Afterwards ensued regrets tender reproaches, and clouds of sadness melting
into tears. Peace was restored amid foolish outbursts of mirth. But you cannot realise what
a task it has been for me to preserve the harmony of a well-regulated household among creatures
with their impulsive imaginations, which have ripened under the heat of their native oriental
sun. They have mixed up their superstitions with those higher principles of which I have endeavoured
to inculcate a notion into their minds, and which they often interpret in quite a different
sense. All this has been the occasion for the display of charming eccentricities. My little
animals have grown into women, and along with the development of a more intelligent love, I
have seen manifestations of a coquettish mutinous spirit, upon the slightest evidence of partiality
on my part, which they have thought to detect in me.

I must tell you that Kondjé-Gul, who is really a very intelligent girl, had begun to study
with great ardour, and it naturally followed that she benefited more from her lessons than
the others, who treated them rather as an amusement. In three months she learnt French tolerably
well--she it was who translated the novels to them. Hence arose a superiority on her side,
which must in any case have produced a good deal of envy among the others. On the top of this
came her famous excursion to the château, concerning which the silly creature gave them marvellous
accounts, in order to pose as favourite. I should add that Kondjé-Gul, being of an extremely
jealous nature, often gave way to violent fits of passion. Hadidjé, for some reason or other,
more especially excited her suspicions. Hadidjé has an excitable temperament. Between them,
consequently, a considerable coolness arose: this, however, created nothing worse than a few
clouds on my fine sky. For the passive domesticities of the harem, I had substituted love;
for its obedience, the free expansions and impulses of the heart.

I must add, however, that while rising to purer conceptions of truth, my houris retained too
much of their native instincts not to get their heads turned somewhat by the novelty of their
situation. Having equal rights, they claimed the same rank in my esteem. From this it resulted
that Hadidjé, Nazli, and Zouhra at last took umbrage at the success of Kondjé-Gul, who was
wrong in trying to outstrip them. "Kondjé-Gul," they proclaimed, "wishes to act the savante.
Kondjé-Gul gives herself the airs of a legitimate Sultana." I must confess that the said little
coquette was only too careful to impress them with her successes, of which she was rather proud.
One evening she sat down to the piano, and, with a careless air, played part of a waltz, which
she had learnt on the sly in order to surprise me. You may guess what the effect was. This
triumph put the finishing touch to their provocation, and the evening was spent in sulky murmurs.

Finally, one day when I arrived at the harem I found Kondjé-Gul shut up in her own room, bathed
in tears. The storm which had been impending so long had burst over her proud head--Hadidjé,
Zouhra, and Nazli had beaten her.

Once more I appeased their discords, by recourse to a new declaration of principles. The reconciliation
was celebrated by a general display of cordiality; but a faction had been formed within the
ranks. At the very time that I least expected it, Nazli, Hadidjé, and Zouhra returned to their
idea of a secret visit to the château. This project, which so far had only been carried on
by detached skirmishes, was still cherished by them, and was now pursued by a compact body
of troops, combining their siege-manoeuvres with a rare concentration of boldness and courage.
Their weapons were tender caresses and those innumerable cajoleries of women, which nearly
always compel us to surrender in desperation to their most unreasonable whims. My oriental
ménage was still walking on a flowery path, but a snare was hidden under the dead leaves....
A few weeks later, when I was completely entangled in the subtle meshes of their cunning, the
whole line changed their tactics. They said no more about Férouzat, but I soon saw exhibitions
on every side of frivolous caprices, sudden fits of sulkiness, unexpected refusals, and so forth.

My odalisques had become civilised.

I was too good a tactician to allow myself to be outflanked by this artful little game, the
concerted object of which I pretended not to perceive. Whenever they fancied they had obtained
a success over me, I immediately transferred my attentions to Kondjé-Gul, and the attacking
party disbanded, surrendering unconditionally.

Unfortunately Kondjé-Gul, relying upon my weakness for her, tried to carry off a decisive victory
by a sudden charge. The other evening, having accompanied me up to the secret door, she rushed
through it with a laugh, and made off for the château, right through the grounds of Férouzat.
I ran after her and soon caught her, encumbered as she was by her oriental slippers and her
long train. I took her back to the harem, where the others seemed to be awaiting, in a great
state of excitement, the result of this most audacious attempt. Then I learnt that "she had
boasted she would obtain this fresh triumph over them." This was a flagrant offence. After
such an act of rebellion it was necessary to make an example: I spoke severely, and there was
a tremendous scene. Kondjé-Gul had too much pride to humiliate herself before her rivals, who
were rejoicing over her defeat. Distracted with vexation and carried away by her foolish impulses,
she made the breach between us complete. For three days she remained haughty and arrogant,
accepting her disgrace, but too proud to make any advances for a reconciliation. Needless to
say, Nazli, Hadidjé, and Zouhra were more affectionate and attentive to me than ever.

Such was the condition of affairs when the critical incident took place which I undertook to
describe to you.

The other evening, I was in the harem, and Nazli and Zouhra were playing Turkish airs on the
zither, while Hadidjé, seated at my feet, with her head resting upon her hands, which were
crossed on my knees, was singing in a low murmur the words of each tune.

Kondjé-Gul stayed near the verandah, looking cool and dignified, and smoking a cigarette in
the defiant, and at the same time resigned attitude of a hardened rebel; but the furtive glances
which she cast at Hadidjé gave the lie to her affected calmness. For two evenings past we had
not exchanged a word with each other. She had dressed herself that day with remarkable care,
as if to impress me with the splendours of the paradise I had lost: her glorious hair streamed
down in long tresses, somewhat disorderly, from under her pearl-embroidered cap. Notwithstanding
a great gauze veil with which she pretended to enshroud herself in order to conceal her charms
from my profane eyes, her bodice was so slightly fastened that it dropped down just low enough
to expose to view the charming little pits under her arms and the snowy-whiteness of her breasts.
Like a wrathful Venus, the expression on her face was both mutinous and resolute. She had put
kohl under her eyes (a thing which I forbid), and had blackened and lengthened her eyebrows
so that they met together, in Turkish fashion. In this get-up the little sinner looked ravishing!

Now you can picture to yourself the scene, and guess my state of mind. The weird tones of the
zither, with their penetrating and singularly melancholy vibrations, the strange yet graceful
costumes, the scent of those flowers with which the daughters of the East always adorn themselves,
the all-pervading voluptuous atmosphere the enchantment of which I cannot explain to you; finally,
the fair rebel gloomy and jealous, in the corner of the picture! All this, without my being
any longer surprised by it, kept me in a sort of happy contentment, like that of a well satisfied
vizir, which defies all analysis, but which you will understand.

All at once the music ceased.

"André," said Hadidjé to me, "won't you come into the garden for a little while?"

"Come along!" I replied, and rose up to go.

She took my arm. Zouhra and Nazli followed us. As I went out by the verandah, I passed close
to Kondjé-Gul; she drew back with a superb air of dignity, as if she feared lest her dress
should be ruffled by me. Then darting a look of withering scorn at Hadidjé, she wrapped herself
up in her veil and leant against the balustrade, watching us go off. It was a delicious autumn
evening, the air was soft and the sky clear and starry. Under our feet the dry leaves crackled.
Hadidjé wanted to have a row in the boat, so we went towards the lake. As we rowed along we
caught glimpses of Kondjé-Gul from time to time, through the openings between the trees; her
motionless figure stood out like a solitary shadow in front of the illuminated window of the
drawing-room.

"That's capital!" said Hadidjé, who was rowing with Nazli; "How dismal she looks! But then
why does she try to get privileges over us? Let us stay here."

"Oh!" answered Zouhra in an indifferent tone, as she lay back on the cushions, "Not the whole
evening, I hope, for it's rather cold."

"Why didn't you bring your feridjié then," said Nazli; "you poor sensitive creature?"

"I will go and fetch it if you like," I said to Zouhra.

"Oh, no!" she answered quickly; "if you leave us we shall be afraid."

"Very well then, I'll go," said Hadidjé, who wanted to carry out her plan. "Let us row to the
bank."

We pulled up to the point nearest to the château, and Hadidjé, not without some nervousness
after all, left us and ran off.

"Keep your eye on me all the time, won't you?" she said to me as she picked up her long skirt.

Soon we saw her reach the verandah without any adventure. She ascended the steps and passed
in front of Kondjé-Gul. It seemed to us that Kondjé-Gul spoke very passionately to her, and
that she answered her in the same tones. At last they both had gone in, when all at once we
heard piercing shrieks. Apprehending some skirmishing between my two jealous houris, I rushed
off, followed at a distance by Zouhra and Nazli, who were frightened at the thought of being
left alone. As I entered the harem I found Hadidjé and Kondjé-Gul, with their hair dishevelled
and their clothes torn, struggling together. Kondjé-Gul was armed with a little golden dagger,
which she wore in her hair, and was striking Hadidjé with it. When she saw me she fled and
ran to her room to shut herself in.

We hastened to the assistance of poor Hadidjé. She had been wounded on the shoulder, and blood
was flowing. Happily the weapon, too harmless to wound seriously, had not penetrated the flesh;
but, breaking with the blow, it had scratched her rather severely. I soon felt reassured, and
quieted her cries, but not without some trouble.

Mohammed and the servants had run up to the rescue; I sent them all back, and after calming
Nazli and Zouhra, I staunched the wound with some water. In a few minutes, Hadidjé, who had
fancied herself murdered, regained her tranquillity of mind, and only complained just enough
to keep alive our interest in her grievance.

Then I questioned her, and she told us that as soon as she had entered the drawing-room, Kondjé-Gul
followed her, and giving vent there and then to an outburst of passion, accused her of being
the cause of her disgrace, reproaching her with hypocritical devices for getting over me. Hadidjé,
according to her version of the affair, had only replied with extreme moderation, when Kondjé-Gul,
exasperated all of a sudden, rushed at her with her dagger.

I knew Hadidjé's character too well to place an implicit belief in the whole of this account;
still it was important to put an end to such escapades. The happiness of my household, which
had hitherto been so peaceful, was endangered if I failed to act like a just but strict husband.
After this outrage committed by Kondjé-Gul, my houris, in their indignation, insisted upon
a signal vengeance, and demanded forthwith that I should deliver her up to the cadi. The cadi!
that was coming it strong. I had some difficulty, however, in overcoming their persistency;
at last they agreed to a less tragic form of punishment, which went no further than the expulsion
of this unworthy companion from the harem.

Such escapades might, I feared, get wind outside, and cause a scandal. However much allowance
I might make for the tempers of my houris in these demands for a somewhat summary punishment,
I could not conceal from myself that, taking everything into consideration, it was really necessary
for me to punish the offence severely, into whatever difficulties this adventure might lead
me. I promised to give satisfaction to their legitimate indignation. Then, leaving Hadidjé
to the care of Zouhra and Nazli, I proclaimed that I was going at once to subject the culprit
to an examination, after which I should pronounce sentence upon her.

CHAPTER VI.

Kondjé-Gul was shut up in her room; I found her sitting on her bed, which was disarranged,
and the pillows of which seemed to have been rumpled up in a fit of rage and despair; she appeared
like one stupified, with her gloomy looks, and hands clasping her knees. Her face and her neck
bore the marks of Hadidjé's nails. The kohl from under her eyes had been smeared on her cheeks,
which were smudged all over; she looked just like a little savage, with however the gracefulness
of a child.

She did not stir when I came in; I walked right up to her, and in the solemn tone of a judge,
said--

"Wretched girl, do you know what you have done?"

She remained silent and motionless, fixing her eyes on the carpet.

"After such an act, will you not answer?" I continued.

"Why do you love her?" she said at last, in a wild voice.

"Say, why should I love you?" I replied, "when your bad temper and your jealousy lead you to
disobedience, to crime--when you stir up quarrels and discords among us?"

At these reproaches Kondjé-Gul all at once drew herself up erect before me, and exclaimed passionately--

"Then you do not love me any longer?"

My questions had not reached their mark.

"This is not the time for me to answer you," I said. "I am now asking you to account for the
act which you have just committed."

"Very well! If you love me no more, I want you to confess it, and I will die! What have I done
to you, that you should prefer Hadidjé to me? Perhaps she is handsomer than I am, is she? If
you think me ugly," she added, in a tone of concentrated despair, "tell me straight, and I
will go and cast myself into the lake, and you shall see me no more!"

"But no! I did not say that," I replied, trying to cut short this diversion.

"Then what are you reproaching me for? Hadidjé loves you better than I do, perhaps?"

"Neither Hadidjé's sentiments nor mine have anything to do with the question. I am asking you
about your violence, and the wound you have given her with the dagger!"

"Why did she tell me that you love her better than me?" she answered.

"She told you that?"

"Yes; and pretends that you swore to it. For my part, I do not want to be loved like a slave.
I have learnt from your books that women in your country die when they are no longer loved.
So if you have ceased to love me, I wish to die! You have told me that I have a heart, a soul,
and an intellect, as they have, and that a woman's love makes her the equal of her master.
Do you mean to tell me, ungrateful man, that I do not love you? Have I ever been jealous of
Zouhra, or of Nazli? Why should this Hadidjé be everything in your eyes? If you do not want
me any more," she added, in a transport of grief, "say so, then; crop my hair, shave off my
eyebrows, and place me among the servants!"

As she said these words, she threw herself down at my feet, which she hugged in a delirium
of passion. Her tears coursed down her cheeks, and upon my hands, which she covered with kisses.
In her intense emotion her voice betokened such bitter distress, that in spite of my determination
to punish her, I felt softened towards her. In presence of these transports of a passion, which
admitted no other motive but that of her jealous rage, I saw that it was in vain for me to
attempt to awaken her conscience to the sense of her guilty conduct. She could neither hear
nor feel anything but the echo of her own grief. I loved her no longer, and I loved Hadidjé!
These words returned to her lips over and over again, amid sobs so heart-rending that, overcome
by pity, and forgetting my resolution, I could not help uttering a word of protestation. I
had hardly spoken, when she exclaimed--

"Is that true? Do you really love me? Will you swear it?"

I then understood the imprudence I had committed, but it was too late. Kondjé-Gul, passing
at once from affliction to joy, had clasped me in her arms. I wanted to remain stern; but how
could I contend by any arguments with such outbursts of mad jealousy? She would not listen
to me: she implored me with all the frenzied entreaties and reproaches of which an unreasoning
nature is capable. At one moment I believed that I had at last brought her mind to realise
the actual situation between us, and the justice of my complaints against her conduct.

"Well, yes!" she said, "I have been very foolish. I ought to have thrown myself at your feet
three days ago! Ah, if you only knew how wretched your coldness made me! Listen: when you came
in just now, thinking that I had lost your love for ever, I was considering how I could kill
myself. But you have forgiven me, have you not?--No, no! don't speak to me about them!" she
continued, sharply, seeing that I was about to answer. "You know very well that I am no longer
like them; you have formed my heart for a different love to that of the harem. I no longer
love you just as they do. No! As for you, you shall love me just as you please--as your servant,
if such is your will. Imprison me, if you like, as a punishment; all I want is to see you,
and to love you. Yes, I was wrong in striking that Hadidjé. You know very well that I am still
a savage, for you have often told me so. Well, then, teach me your own ideas, your religion.
Tell me what you wish me to be?" she added finally, in tones so soft and tender that I was
quite overcome by her.

I was astounded by this language, by this impassioned eloquence which I had never suspected
in her, and which I now heard from her lips for the first time. The butterfly of love had spread
out its wings. Psyche was born for love! No longer for that passive and vague love which was
but the awakening of the senses and of pleasure, but for that love of the heart which is life
itself, with its sorrows, its joys, and its ecstacies. I contemplated it full of surprise,
experiencing the fascination of some new enchantment.

Louis, how can I describe it? Within an hour after I had entered Kondjé-Gul's room; our quarrel,
her jealousies, her offence, and the punishment I had resolved upon, were all forgotten!

Nevertheless, appreciating more completely now the defeat to which I had submitted, I could
not fail to perceive the embarrassment which such strange conduct would cause me. It would,
at any rate, be remarkably awkward for my wives to learn that the violent scene which had passed,
and poor Hadidjé's dagger-wound, had actually become the occasion for a reconciliation with
Kondjé-Gul. How could I show my face before the victim to whom it was my duty to grant justice?
It was really impossible for me to show such contempt for fas and nefas as I should do were
I to reward her assault upon Hadidjé in such an extraordinary fashion as by pardoning her.
What in the world would Zouhra and Nazli say? It would be all over with my authority and my
reputation.

At any cost, therefore, it was necessary for me to conceal my very imprudent weakness until
their passions had calmed down, or until some conciliatory advances on the part of Kondjé-Gul
to Hadidjé had led to the forgiveness of this deplorable folly. But directly I attempted to
appeal to her reason, Kondjé-Gul, full of pride at having won me back, and even making use
of my desertion as a weapon in her hands, would not hear of humiliating herself before a rival.
In vain I represented to her that my own dignity, "the proprieties," and justice were at stake;
she held fast to her victory, and would not forego any of its advantages.

Finally, however, she comprehended the gravity of the situation.

"Well, do you know what we'll do?" she said; "it will be so nice! They will all believe that
you have given me a tremendous scolding. And so you have, for you were cruel when first you
came in!"

"I suppose you did not deserve it then?" I answered.

"Hold your tongue, sir!" she said, putting her finger up to her mouth, and pouting like a little
child. "You're going to begin again! Let me tell you my plan, which will settle all our difficulties."

"Let me hear your plan."

"Very well; you shall tell them that you have been inexorable, and that you have treated me
as an odious creature. For my part, I shall look still more angry with you. Before them, we
will scowl at each other, and make them believe that all is quite at an end between us, and
that you have decided to send me away and have me sold."

"What a capital idea!" I said to her.

"Yes, do let us. It will be so delightful, so clandestine! And then I shall feel that you love
me better than them!"

"Because we shall deceive them, I suppose."

"Yes, yes!" she exclaimed, with a laugh; "because we shall deceive them! Besides," she added
in a tone of conviction, "you must know very well yourself that there is no other rational
course for us. In the first place I swear I will never beg the pardon of this miserable Hadidjé--never!"

For the present it was clearly necessary to agree to this compromise, which at least provided
for the exigencies of decorum. When I left Kondjé-Gul I returned to the château from motives
of prudence, in order to avoid rousing the suspicions of my wives.

Nevertheless I must admit it was not without some apprehensions that I returned the next day
to the harem. But I was soon reassured when I saw the amiable satisfaction which prevailed
among my houris. The absence of Kondjé-Gul, who remained in stoic seclusion, left no doubt
in their minds that she was in complete disgrace and would certainly be sent away. I even gathered
that the silly creature had shown Nazli some blue marks which she had made on her own skin,
and told her that I had beaten her! Hadidjé, rather proud of her wound, continued to give herself
interesting airs as the principal heroine of this terrible tragedy. As it was in reality merely
a scratch, which hurt her very little, her only object in complaining was to emphasize her
caprices. After the stormy days we had just gone through, this morning passed like an idyl.
Their spirits were all harmonious; and I left them firmly convinced that from the way I performed
my great act of justice they had no longer anything to fear at the hands of a rival.

Satisfied at this termination of the incident, which had caused me no small anxiety, I was
returning to the château, when lo and behold! as I was passing the bushes, who should appear
but Kondjé-Gul, who ran up and threw herself into my arms.

"How's this?" I said to her; "you here!"

"Yes, dear; I wanted to see you and kiss you," she exclaimed, bounding with joy like a child;
"and to hear you tell me that you love me still!"

"You mad creature, suppose anyone were to see you!"

"All right!" she replied; "I jumped down from my window, for they think I am a prisoner there.
I slipped under the verandah, so as not to be noticed by Mohammed, and came here to wait for
you. Now, don't scold me. Now that I have seen you I am going back, for fear I should rouse
the suspicion of your wives. Tell me if I'm not clever!"

Then, just as she was running away again, she added in a little tone of importance,

"And mind you're careful too!"

Eight days have passed since the dramatic events, of which I have related to you the singular
termination. Here I am involved in a regular conspiracy of deceit; I have a secret intrigue
with one of my wives. Kondjé-Gul plays her part of estrangement in a most curious fashion,
with an affectation of melancholy, combined with haughtiness, and the silly creature is delighted
with her efforts. After two or three days of seclusion, she reappeared, talked cynically of
her approaching departure, and rejoiced over it. We treat each other like spouses definitely
divorced from each other, who are nevertheless paying each other, as well-bred people should
do, a final tribute of strict politeness after the irreparable breach. Hadidjé, Nazli, and
Zouhra, confident in a dominion which appears to them henceforth assured, admire my great qualities
as a dispenser of justice.

My dear Louis, do you wish me to confess to you the most remarkable consequence of this business?
Yes, of course you do. I promised that this psychological study should be conducted with sincerity,
and that nothing should be shirked. Well then, in the course of my analytical observations,
this mystery with Kondjé-Gul, these tastings of forbidden fruit, form certainly the most exquisite
experience I have met with. You may tell me, if you like, that I am a pandour, and that my
taste has been perverted by a life of unbridled Epicureanism; you may tell me that the charms
of duplicity, of falsehood, and of this connivance in the guise of a childish deception, are
exercising a morbid fascination over my demoralized heart. You may be right. I would only ask
you to express yourself somewhat less bluntly. At any rate, you will not, I presume, expect
me to account for the frailties of our mortal nature. I guess what you are thinking--out with it!

Notwithstanding my fine array of principles and the strict vows I made to myself to distribute
my affections equally between my cadines, it certainly looks very much as if I have selected
a favourite. Have I fallen to this extent? I don't know. What is the good, moreover, of arguing
about it? Is it true that undisturbed possession is the rock upon which love splits, and that
constraint, on the contrary, acts as a spur to it? Instead of arguing aimlessly about such
inconsistencies in human nature, it seems to me much simpler to recognise in them, as Kondjé-Gul
does, a decree of Fate. Can you blame me for sacrificing futile theories to the higher motives
by which I am guided?

The fact is that this necessity for dissimulation, these deceptions, and these clandestine
interviews, have produced between Kondjé-Gul and me a sort of spring-tide of delightful expansion
of the affections. You should see us in the daytime, both of us as stiff as starch in the presence
of the others. You should see the manoeuvres we perform in order to exchange a sly smile or
a shake of the hands out of sight. You should see also what pretty little airs of disdain she
puts on for her rivals, who are slumbering in their paradise of illusion! If we are alone by
chance, she says,

"Quick! your wives are not here," and throws herself into my arms.

Those words coming from her lips, will reveal to you quite a new order of sentiments, a strange
form of love, which could only spring from the education of the harem. Although civilised already
at heart, Kondjé-Gul being still backward in her ideas and traditional associations, does not
trouble herself about my other wives. She could not conceive of my being reduced to such a
singular state of destitution as that of a poor or a miserly man, who abstains from the luxury
of a few odalisques. In her eyes, Hadidjé, Zouhra, and Nazli, form part of my establishment,
and of my daily routine; while she possesses me in secret. For her sake, I am unfaithful to
them, I enter her chamber at night by the window, which I climb up to when all are asleep.

All this, you will tell me, is folly on my part. Ah, my dear fellow, our pleasure in life is
only made up of such trifles, which our imagination generally provides for us. In those secret
interviews I discovered in Kondjé-Gul, who was certainly endowed with a frank and straightforward
mind, a number of graces which I had never been able to detect before during our intercourse
in the harem. Nothing could be stranger or more fascinating than the love of this poor slave-sweetheart,
still so humble and timid, and dazzled as it were by the brilliancy of her dream. Her oriental
ideas and the superstitions of her childhood, mingled with the vague notions which she has
acquired of our world and of a truer ideal, form within her heart and in her mind a most original
collection of contrasts. One is reminded of a bird suddenly surprised at feeling her wings,
but not yet venturing to launch out into the open. Add to all these attractions the impulses
of a passion, exalted perhaps by solitude or by satisfaction at her victory over her rivals,
and, even if you blame my conduct, you will at least understand the seductions which precipitated
my fall.

At Férouzat we have great news: the camels have been discovered! A letter from Captain Picklock
informed us of this. My uncle is quite jubilant; and we have planned a trip to Marseilles to
meet them. Another piece of news is that my aunt has undertaken with Doctor Morand, without
appearing to have a hand in it, a great philanthropic work. I must tell you that a few years
ago the doctor discovered here a hot spring of ferruginous water, the effects of which upon
the few patients whom he was able to induce to visit this hole, have been simply marvellous.
What is wanted now is to establish there some sort of hospital for convalescents. My aunt at
once decided that she, my uncle, and I should find the funds for it. A hundred thousand francs
are more than sufficient for the modest foundation which we contemplate. But from motives of
delicacy, and in order to avoid any appearance of ostentation, we arranged with the mayor and
the vicar to open a subscription, in order that the enterprise might appear to be supported
by public charity, and that all personal liberality should be concealed by associating the
whole district with it. The consequence was that Férouzat has had a visit from the Prefect
of the Department, accompanied by several members of the General Council, and that, in addition
to this, my aunt has organised a committee of the leading inhabitants of the neighbourhood.
Of course I am her secretary, and I leave you to guess whether her activity overworks me. I
assure you my aunt has in her the making of a statesman.

My dear friend, an incident of noteworthy importance, and of quite exceptional gravity, has
just thrown me into the greatest perturbation of mind.

The other morning my aunt started upon a round of calls on behalf of her great enterprise.

"André," she said to me, "come with me like a good nephew; I need your help."

So off we started in the carriage, down the great drive of the château; I thinking that we
were going to the doctor's, or else to the Camboulions. When we arrived at the gate, Bernard
asked from his box for his orders.

"To El-Nouzha," said my aunt.

"What!" I exclaimed, "to Mohammed-Azis?"

"Yes," she replied; "His Excellency's name will look very nice on our list. It will be a sort
of pledge of our excellent foreign relations."

"Have you forgotten? A Mahometan!"

"Certainly: an infidel's charity is quite as good in its effects as a Christian's."

"But he lives a very retired life. Such a visit will take him very much by surprise."

"You are intimate with him; you introduce me. Nothing could be more correct; that's why I brought
you with me."

In truth nothing could be more correct; I was caught in her trap, and could say nothing more,
for fear of exciting suspicion in her alert and penetrating mind. I had no doubt in my own
mind that my aunt's real object was to satisfy a curiosity which she had cherished for a long
time past. How could I oppose this tenacious purpose of hers? By what plausible pretext could
I divert her from taking a step so natural, and so cleverly justified? I was caught, and my
only hopes rested in Mohammed's behaviour, and in his gibberish dialect, which would at least
render conversation so difficult, that it would be easy for me to intervene. We rolled on in
the carriage; my aunt was delighted. I succeeded pretty well in concealing my apprehensions.
After all, the chief danger seemed to be over directly my aunt stopped at the official entrance
of El-Nouzha. The "selamlik," inhabited by Mohammed, where we were received, is according to
the Turkish custom, entirely separated from the harem, the gardens of which are walled off
from it, and hidden from sight.

In a quarter of an hour we arrived in front of His Excellency's abode. The gate was shut, as
it always is. The footman got down and rang, but no one answered the bell. For a moment I had
hopes; but at the third ring of the bell (which my aunt ordered), one of Mohammed's servants,
a Cerberus stationed on this side of the house, showed himself at the grating of the inner door.

"His Excellency Mohammed-Azis is at home, is he not?" shouted my aunt. "Tell him that Monsieur
André de Peyrade has called to see him."

Recognising me in the carriage, Cerberus hesitated. He was actually going to open the gate
to let the carriage pass through. I sharply commanded him to do as my aunt told him. To give
Mohammed warning, was at once to put him on his guard.

"There is no need for taking the carriage in," said my aunt; "we will cross the lawn on foot.
The lawn is there still, I suppose?"

"Yes, aunt."

"Well, then, give me your hand to get out, and now forward! If His Excellency will not receive
us, I shall at least have had a glimpse of a corner of the park. What a funny idea it was of
the Captain to let him this place!"

She led me on without any more ado, and we entered.

"Oh! the sycamores have grown splendidly," she said.

At that moment we noticed Mohammed coming down the steps, and walking towards us.

"Ah, His Excellency has not forsaken his old ideas!" said my aunt; "he still wears the costume
of the true believers. As he is coming, let us hurry on, to be polite."

The danger was impending, nothing could now save me from it. I summoned up all my self-control.
When I was a few steps off His Excellency, I slipped away quickly and ran up to him.

"Be careful," I said to him in a whisper; "it is my aunt. Keep your counsel, and don't let
her suspect anything."

Then I went through the formal introduction, delivering it in the famous sabir which I told
you of. Mohammed in the same idiom was fashioning a compliment as profound as it was difficult
to understand, when my aunt all at once answered him in the purest Turkish.--I felt myself
quite lost.

A minute afterwards we were ensconced in the drawing-room of the "selamlik." My aunt described
the object of her visit. I must tell you that this rascal Mohammed played his part with the
most affable gravity imaginable, albeit somewhat timidly, as if he felt whizzing through the
air a shadowy reminder of the stick with which, no doubt, my uncle had trained him. I kept
my eye on him all the time, and his eye wandered from me to my aunt with a distressed expression.
Great drops of perspiration started from his face. Finally, at a sign from me, he generously
promised his subscription, and on the whole got through the ordeal very well.

My anxieties being now removed, I was beginning to breathe more fully, when my aunt, just as
the interview was coming to a close, expressed to him, in the most gracefully delicate manner
possible, her desire to pay a visit to his daughters, whose acquaintance she would be delighted
to make.

I was stupefied. To have refused the entrée of the harem to a lady of my aunt's rank would
have been an offence to her; she was too well acquainted with Mussulman customs for it to be
possible to put her off with any pretext. Mohammed, still maintaining his dignified attitude,
replied without any hesitation, by a gesture of delighted acquiescence, and without the least
embarrassment got up, saying that he was about to inform them of their good fortune. I felt
rather reassured. From the manner in which the old fellow had acted "His Excellency," it was
clear that this was not the first time he had been called upon to "save the situation."

"You would like to follow me, I daresay," said my aunt with a laugh, as soon as he had left us.

"Why, of course," I replied, in a careless enough tone. "Still, if his daughters take after
him, you will admit that it may be better to content myself with my illusions."

"You dear innocent boy! Why, with a Turk, you never know what to expect!"

Mohammed came back to tell my aunt that her visit had been announced, and then, preceding her
with a dignified bow he opened for her the gates communicating with the harem. I remained behind.
What would happen? Although the remarkable self possession of my eunuch had set me more at
my ease, it was a critical moment. It was evident that there would be great excitement among
my houris. They would feel at home gossiping with my aunt, as she spoke Turkish, and they would
very likely let out everything. If one of them mentioned my name only, my aunt would guess it all.

I waited in a state of suspense such as you can imagine. Finally, after half-an-hour of cruel
anxieties, the sound of the closed door in the neighbouring room informed me that I was about
to know my fate. My aunt came in, and I did not dare look her in the face. Fortunately I gathered
from her first words that I had nothing more to fear; she complimented Mohammed upon his good
fortune as the father of such charming daughters, promising often to return to spend a few
hours with them, and then at last we said "Good-bye" to His Excellency.

On our return, my aunt persisted in her eulogiums upon the young Turkish women, chaffing me
about my long solitary period of waiting for her, separated only by a few walls from those
pretty birds shut up in their golden cage. During the whole of luncheon she regaled my uncle
with her description of these wonderful beauties. He kept looking at me from the corner of
his eye with a furious expression.

As soon as I could escape, I ran off to El-Nouzha to question Mohammed about what had happened
in the harem. He related the whole scene to me in detail. Nazli, Hadidjé, and Zouhra were alone
when he went to prepare them for my aunt's visit. As Koudjé-Gul was reading in her room, she
had not been informed of it. At the news of such a great event my houris screamed with joy.
Trained as he had been by my uncle never to forget his part as the father, he had taken care
to remind them that, in accordance with French usage, they must not allow it to be in the least
suspected that they knew me. They promised to do as he wished them, swearing faithfully to
keep all his commands. My aunt was then introduced. When they saw her, my houris rose up rather
frightened, but she soon set them at ease with a kind word, and then conversation began. Needless
to say, the countess's toilet formed the chief topic of discourse.

I will not try to depict for you the state of excitement in which I found my sultanas, nor
the accounts which they had to give me themselves of this great event. Their sanguine imaginations
were already occupied by the absolute necessity, as they deemed it, of returning my aunt's
call. Her kindness had very naturally charmed them to the point of believing that no obstacle
could arise to hinder the continuance of friendly relations so well inaugurated. They went
on chattering all the evening about the incidents of this lucky and delightful event, taking
particular pleasure in repeating before Koudjé-Gul who had been absent (and whom they confidently
hoped to exclude from their new relations), all the kind things which the pasha's wife had
said to them. It was certainly a splendid revenge upon their rival for that evening escapade
which she had boasted so much about.

Poor Kondjé-Gul, disappointed as she was already at having had no share in this unexpected
treat, listened without a word, her sad eyes questioning me all the time. I reassured her with
a nod, letting the silly creatures prattle away in their glee, and amuse themselves with sanguine
projects of such a revolutionary character that it would have been impossible to discuss them.

I began to consider for myself the best way to cut short these unforeseen complications. Although
I was out of danger for the present, the veil which concealed the secrets of El-Nouzha was
only supported by a thread. My aunt was not the woman to remain long deceived, and with her
quick mind, the slightest imprudent word, the slightest clue, would suffice to arouse her suspicions.
I did not even feel sure but what my aunt, impelled by her curiosity, might be only too eager
to exchange visits with His Excellency's daughters, and the very thought of this was enough
to make me tremble.

The result of my cogitations was a resolve to take decisive measures for putting a stop to
such extremely delicate and critical complications as I apprehended. It might, indeed, have
been possible for me, while carefully mystifying every one, to have continued unabashed my
oriental pursuits and avocations under the secure shelter of the walls of El-Nouzha. They represented,
after all, nothing worse than one of those intrigues in the neighbourhood with which my aunt
had herself credited me, but after this visit to the Kasre which had brought her into contact
with my houris, the most ordinary respect for the proprieties required me to prevent such conjunctures
from recurring. Moreover, our time at Férouzat was drawing to a close, for we were to spend
the winter in Paris. I therefore determined to anticipate our departure, and to remove my harem
immediately. Once lost in the crowd and din of Paris, my secret would be safe.

The removal is now settled. A talk with my uncle simplified matters. As you may imagine, I
had to explain to him the risks entailed by such an occurrence as my aunt's visit, which might
lead her mind to revert to some incidents in the Captain's past life which had so far remained
unintelligible. Barbassou Pasha did not trouble himself very seriously about it, but he approved
of my decision, and, contenting himself with a few growls at me by the way, affectionately
proceeded to give me the assistance of his experience. It seems that he has--or rather I have--a
house at Paris, which was furnished expressly for the use of His Excellency Mohammed Azis during
my uncle's visits there. Orders have already been sent to have it ready. Then plausible reasons
for my departure have been invented; some pretended business of importance, which we have been
discussing several days past before my aunt, and which "might necessitate my presence in Paris."
Truly my uncle's composure is wonderful!

As to my houris of El-Nouzha, I need hardly tell you that the coming journey has been the subject
of a most extraordinary enthusiasm on their part. The idea of seeing Paris has quite turned
their heads, and caused them to forget their proposed visits to Férouzat. In order to put all
conjectures off the scent, Mohammed is going to start to-morrow ostensibly for Marseilles,
as if he were returning to Turkey. The cool November weather having set in, nothing could be
more natural than this return to his native land. The end of his journey, however, will be
the Faubourg St. Germain, to which he will direct his course by a circuitous route, and where
I shall rejoin him on my arrival at Paris next week.

CHAPTER VII.

The deed is done! We managed everything without the slightest hitch. I write to you from Paris,
from our house in the Rue de Varennes; it seems like years since I was last there, so many
things have happened during the six months since I left it. All my surroundings belong to a
life so different from my present one, that it requires an exertion of thought to identify
myself and realise my position here.

My harem is established in the Rue de Monsieur--in the former "Parc aux Cerfs" of my uncle--a
splendid mansion, the gardens of which reach to the Boulevard des Invalides. My uncle has absolutely
the genius of an ancient Epicurean transferred by accident into our own century. To look at
the street, with its cold and deserted aspect, one might imagine oneself in a corner of aristocratic
Versailles. My mystery is safely hidden away there. Mohammed while at Paris is no longer an
exiled Minister, but simply a rich Turk who has acquired a taste for European civilisation.
His name is Omer-Rashid-Effendi, a name under which he has already passed here twice.

My houris are astonished with all they see, and their pleasure is indescribable. Of course
my first care was to Europeanise their toilettes. In pursuance of my orders (for, as you may
be sure, I do not appear in such matters) a fashionable dressmaker was sent for by Mohammed.
What a business it was! The difficulty was to avoid making them, with their oriental styles
and deportments, look stiff and awkward when confined for the first time in the garb of our
civilised torture-house.

By a happy compromise between fashion and fancy, the clever artiste has contrived for them
costumes which are marvels of good taste and simplicity. Nothing could be more successful than
this metamorphosis; their coiffures complete the picture, and I can hardly recognise my almées
under the bewitching little hats worn by our Parisian women. I assure you it is a transfiguration
replete with surprises and unexpected charms. Attired like our women of fashion, their striking
and original beauty, which was my admiration at El-Nouzha, impresses me in quite a novel manner,
which I seem to understand better as I compare them by the side of our own women. Like young
foreign ladies of distinction habited in the costumes of our civilisation, they seem to shed
around them wherever they go a sort of exotic fragrance.

Everything, of course, had to be changed now that they are in Paris; they could no longer follow
the routine of their former existence within the four walls of the harem. They were now at
liberty to go out walking, and take little trips; but here at once appeared a most serious
difficulty for them to overcome. How could they show themselves in the streets, the Champs
Elysées, or the Bois, without their veils just like infidels? That was a serious question!
It was impossible for them to make up their minds to such a shameful breach of Mussulman law;
and, if I must admit it, I myself experienced a strange sort of revulsion at the thought of
it. Yes, to this have I come! Nevertheless, on the other hand, it was quite out of the question
for them to shew themselves out of doors enshrouded in their triple veils, attracting wherever
they went the remarks of the idle crowd.

