HARPER'S NEW MONTHLY MAGAZINE.

No. VIII.--JANUARY, 1851.--VOL. II.

PERSONAL APPEARANCE AND HABITS OF ROBERT SOUTHEY.

BY HIS SON.[1]

Being the youngest of all his children, I had not the privilege of knowing my father in his
best and most joyous years, nor of remembering Greta Hall when the happiness of its circle
was unbroken. Much labor and anxiety, and many sorrows, had passed over him; and although his
natural buoyancy of spirit had not departed, it was greatly subdued, and I chiefly remember
its gradual diminution from year to year.

In appearance he was certainly a very striking looking person, and in early days he had by
many been considered almost the beau idéal of a poet. Eighteen years later Lord Byron calls
him a prepossessing looking person, and, with his usual admixture of satire, says, "To have
his head and shoulders I would almost have written his Sapphics;" and elsewhere he speaks of
his appearance as "Epic," an expression which may be either a sneer or a compliment.

His forehead was very broad; his height was five feet eleven inches; his complexion rather
dark, the eyebrows large and arched, the eye well shaped and dark brown, the mouth somewhat
prominent, muscular, and very variously expressive, the chin small in proportion to the upper
features of his face. He always, while in Keswick, wore a cap in his walks, and partly from
habit, partly from the make of his head and shoulders, we never thought he looked well or like
himself in a hat. He was of a very spare frame, but of great activity, and not showing any
appearance of a weak constitution.

My father's countenance, like his character, seems to have softened down from a certain wildness
of expression to a more sober and thoughtful cast; and many thought him a handsomer man in
age than in youth; his eye retaining always its brilliancy, and his countenance its play of
expression.

The reader will remember his Republican independency when an under-graduate at Oxford, in rebelling
against the supremacy of the college barber. Though he did not continue to let his hair hang
down on his shoulders according to the whim of his youthful days, yet he always wore a greater
quantity than is usual; and once, on his arrival in town, Chantrey's first greetings to him
were accompanied with an injunction to go and get his hair cut. When I first remember it, it
was turning from a rich brown to the steel shade, whence it rapidly became almost snowy white,
losing none of its remarkable thickness, and clustering in abundant curls over his massive brow.

For the following remarks on his general bearing and habits of conversation I am indebted to
a friend:

"The characteristics of his manner, as of his appearance, were lightness and strength, an easy
and happy composure as the accustomed mood, with much mobility at the same time, so that he
could be readily excited into any degree of animation in discourse, speaking, if the subject
moved him much, with extraordinary fire and force, though always in light, laconic sentences.
When so moved, the fingers of his right hand often rested against his mouth, and quivered through
nervous susceptibility. But, excitable as he was in conversation, he was never angry or irritable;
nor can there be any greater mistake concerning him than that into which some persons have
fallen, when they have inferred, from the fiery vehemence with which he could give utterance
to moral anger in verse or prose, that he was personally ill-tempered or irascible. He was,
in truth, a man whom it was hardly possible to quarrel with or offend personally and face to
face; and in his writings, even on public subjects in which his feelings were strongly engaged,
he will be observed to have always dealt tenderly with those whom he had once seen and spoken
to, unless, indeed, personally and grossly assailed by them. He said of himself that he was
tolerant of persons, though intolerant of opinions. But in oral intercourse the toleration
of persons was so much the stronger, that the intolerance of opinions was not to be perceived;
and, indeed, it was only in regard to opinions of a pernicious moral tendency that it was ever
felt.

"He was averse from argumentation, and would commonly quit a subject when it was passing into
that shape, with a quiet and good-humored indication of the view in which he rested. He talked
most and with most interest about books and about public affairs; less, indeed hardly at all,
about the characters and qualities of men in private life. In the society of strangers or of
acquaintances, he seemed to take more interest in the subjects spoken of than in the persons
present, his manner being that of natural courtesy and general benevolence without distinction
of individuals. Had there been some tincture of social vanity in him, perhaps he would have
been brought into closer relations with those whom he met in society; but, though invariably
kind and careful of their feelings, he was indifferent to the manner in which they regarded
him, or (as the phrase is) to his effect in society; and they might, perhaps, be conscious
that the kindness they received was what flowed naturally and inevitably to all, that they
had nothing to give in return which was of value to him, and that no individual relations were
established.

"In conversation with intimate friends he would sometimes express, half humorously, a cordial
commendation of some production of his own, knowing that with them he could afford it, and
that to those who knew him well it was well known that there was no vanity in him. But such
commendations, though light and humorous, were perfectly sincere; for he both possessed and
cherished the power of finding enjoyment and satisfaction wherever it was to be found--in his
own books, in the books of his friends, and in all books whatsoever that were not morally tainted
or absolutely barren."

His course of life was the most regular and simple possible. It was on such times that the
most pleasant fireside chattings, and the most interesting stories came forth; and, indeed,
it was at such a time (though long before my day) that The Doctor was originated, as may be
seen by the beginning of that work and the Preface to the new edition. Notwithstanding that
the very mention of "my glass of punch," the one, temperate, never exceeded glass of punch,
may be a stumbling-block to some of my readers, I am constrained, by the very love of the perfect
picture which the first lines of The Doctor convey of the conclusion of his evening, to transcribe
them in this place. It was written but for a few, otherwise The Doctor would have been no secret
at all; but those few who knew him in his home will see his very look while they re-peruse
it, and will recall the well-known sound:

"I was in the fourth night of the story of the Doctor and his horse, and had broken it off,
not, like Scheherazade, because it was time to get up, but because it was time to go to bed.
It was at thirty-five minutes after ten o'clock on the 20th of July, in the year of our Lord
1813. I finished my glass of punch, tinkled the spoon against its side, as if making music
to my own meditations, and having fixed my eyes upon the Bhow Begum, who was sitting opposite
to me at the head of her own table, I said, 'It ought to be written in a book.'"

This scene took place at the table of the Bhow Begum,[3] but it may easily be transferred to
his ordinary room, where he sat after supper in one corner, with the fire on his left hand
and a small table on his right, looking on at his family circle in front of him.

I have said before, as indeed his own letters have abundantly shown, that he was a most thoroughly
domestic man, in that his whole pleasure and happiness was centred in his home; but yet, from
the course of his pursuits, his family necessarily saw but little of him. He could not, however
he might wish it, join the summer evening walk, or make one of the circle round the winter
hearth, or even spare time for conversation after the family meals (except during the brief
space I have just been speaking of).

Yet, notwithstanding the value which every moment of his time thus necessarily bore, unlike
most literary men, he was never ruffled in the slightest degree by the interruptions of his
family, even on the most trivial occasions; the book or the pen was ever laid down with a smile,
and he was ready to answer any question, or to enter with youthful readiness into any temporary
topic of amusement or interest.

In earlier years he spoke of himself as ill calculated for general society, from a habit of
uttering single significant sentences, which, from being delivered without any qualifying clauses,
bore more meaning upon their surface than he intended, and through which his real opinions
and feelings were often misunderstood. This habit, as far as my own observation went, though
it was sometimes apparent, he had materially checked in later life, and in large parties he
was usually inclined to be silent, rarely joining in general conversation. But he was very
different when with only one or two companions; and to those strangers, who came to him with
letters of introduction, he was both extremely courteous in manner, and frank and pleasant
in conversation, and to his intimates no one could have been more wholly unreserved, more disposed
to give and receive pleasure, or more ready to pour forth his vast stores of information upon
almost every subject.

I might go on here, and enter more at length into details of his personal character, but the
task is too difficult a one, and is perhaps, after all, better left unattempted. A most intimate
and highly-valued friend of my father's, whom I wished to have supplied me with some passages
on these points, remarks very justly, that "any portraiture of him, by the pen as by the pencil,
will fall so far short both of the truth and the ideal which the readers of his poetry and
his letters will have formed for themselves, that they would be worse than superfluous." And,
indeed, perhaps I have already said too much. I can not, however, resist quoting here some
lines by the friend above alluded to, which describe admirably in brief my father's whole character:

                                "Two friends
   Lent me a further light, whose equal hate
   On all unwholesome sentiment attends,
   Nor whom may genius charm where heart infirm attends.

   "In all things else contrarious were these two:
   The one a man upon whose laureled brow
   Gray hairs were growing! glory ever new
   Shall circle him in after years as now;
   For spent detraction may not disavow
   The world of knowledge with the wit combined,
   The elastic force no burden e'er could bow,
   The various talents and the single mind,
   Which give him moral power and mastery o'er mankind.

   "His sixty summers--what are they in truth?
   By Providence peculiarly blest,
   With him the strong hilarity of youth
   Abides, despite gray hairs, a constant guest,
   His sun has veered a point toward the west,
   But light as dawn his heart is glowing yet--
   That heart the simplest, gentlest, kindliest, best,
   Where truth and manly tenderness are met
   With faith and heavenward hope, the suns that never set."[4]

What further I will venture to say relates chiefly to the external circumstances of his life
at Keswick.

His greatest relaxation was in a mountain excursion or a pic-nic by the side of one of the
lakes, tarns, or streams; and these parties, of which he was the life and soul, will long live
in the recollections of those who shared them. An excellent pedestrian (thinking little of
a walk of twenty-five miles when upward of sixty), he usually headed the "infantry" on these
occasions, looking on those gentlemen as idle mortals who indulged in the luxury of a mountain
pony; feeling very differently in the bracing air of Cumberland to what he did in Spain in
1800, when he delighted in being "gloriously lazy," in "sitting sideways upon an ass," and
having even a boy to "propel" the burro.

Upon first coming down to the Lakes he rather undervalued the pleasures of an al-fresco repast,
preferring chairs and tables to the greensward of the mountains, or the moss-grown masses of
rock by the lake shore; but these were probably the impressions of a cold, wet summer, and
having soon learned thoroughly to appreciate these pleasures, he had his various chosen places
which he thought it a sort of duty annually to revisit. Of these I will name a few, as giving
them, perhaps, an added interest to some future tourists. The summit of Skiddaw he regularly
visited, often three or four times in a summer, but the view thence was not one he greatly
admired. Sea-Fell and Helvellyn he ranked much higher, but on account of their distance did
not often reach. Saddleback and Causey Pike, two mountains rarely ascended by tourists, were
great favorites with him, and were the summits most frequently chosen for a grand expedition;
and the two tarns upon Saddleback, Threlkeld and Bowscale tarns, were among the spots he thought
most remarkable for grand and lonely beauty. This, too, was ground rendered more than commonly
interesting, by having been the scenes of the childhood and early life of Clifford the Shepherd
Lord. The rocky streams of Borrowdale, high up beyond Stonethwaite and Seathwaite, were also
places often visited, especially one beautiful spot, where the river makes a sharp bend at
the foot of Eagle Crag. The pass of Honistar Crag, leading from Buttermere to Borrowdale, furnished
a longer excursion, which was occasionally taken with a sort of rustic pomp in the rough market
carts of the country, before the cars which are now so generally used had become common, or
been permitted by their owners to travel that worst of all roads. Occasionally there were grand
meetings with Mr. Wordsworth, and his family and friends, at Leatheswater (or Thirlmere), a
point about half way between Keswick and Rydal; and here as many as fifty persons have sometimes
met together from both sides of the country. These were days of great enjoyment, not to be
forgotten.

There was also an infinite variety of long walks, of which he could take advantage when opportunity
served, without the preparation and trouble of a preconcerted expedition: several of these
are alluded to in his Colloquies. The circuit formed by passing behind Barrow and Lodore to
the vale of Watenlath, placed up high among the hills, with its own little lake and village,
and the rugged path leading thence down to Borrowdale, was one of the walks he most admired.
The beautiful vale of St. Johns, with its "Castle Rock" and picturesquely placed little church,
was another favorite walk; and there were a number of springs of unusual copiousness situated
near what had been apparently a deserted, and now ruined village, where he used to take luncheon.
The rocky bed of the little stream at the foot of Causey Pike was a spot he loved to rest at;
and the deep pools of the stream that flows down the adjoining valley of New Lands--

   "Whose pure and chrysolite waters
   Flow o'er a schistose bed,"

formed one of his favorite resorts for bathing.

Yet these excursions, although for a few years he still continued to enjoy them, began in later
life to wear to him something of a melancholy aspect. So many friends were dead who had formerly
shared them, and his own domestic losses were but too vividly called to mind with the remembrance
of former days of enjoyment, the very grandeur of the scenery around many of the chosen places,
and the unchanging features of the "everlasting hills," brought back forcibly sad memories,
and these parties became in time so painful that it was with difficulty he could be prevailed
upon to join in them.

He concealed, indeed, as the reader has seen, beneath a reserved manner, a most acutely sensitive
mind, and a warmth and kindliness of feeling which was only understood by few, indeed, perhaps,
not thoroughly by any. He said, speaking of the death of his uncle, Mr. Hill, that one of the
sources of consolation to him was the thought that perhaps the departed might then be conscious
how truly he had loved and honored him; and I believe the depth of his affection and the warmth
of his friendship was known to none but himself. On one particular point I remember his often
regretting his constitutional bashfulness and reserve; and that was, because, added to his
retired life and the nature of his pursuits, it prevented him from knowing any thing of the
persons among whom he lived. Long as he had resided at Keswick, I do not think there were twenty
persons in the lower class whom he knew by sight; and though this was in some measure owing
to a slight degree of short-sightedness, which, contrary to what is usual, came on in later
life, yet I have heard him often lament it as not being what he thought right; and after slightly
returning the salutation of some passer by, he would again mechanically lift his cap as he
heard some well-known name in reply to his inquiries, and look back with regret that the greeting
had not been more cordial. With those persons who were occasionally employed about the house
he was most familiarly friendly, and these regarded him with a degree of affectionate reverence
that could not be surpassed.

It may perhaps be expected by some readers that a more accurate account of my father's income
should be given than has yet appeared; but this is not an easy matter, from its extreme variableness,
and this it was that constituted a continual source of uneasiness both to others and to himself,
rarely as he acknowledged it. A common error has been to speak of him as one to whom literature
has been a mine of wealth. That his political opponents should do this is not so strange; but
even Charles Lamb, who, if he had thought a little, would hardly have written so rashly, says,
in a letter to Bernard Barton, recently published, that "Southey has made a fortune by book
drudgery." What sort of a "fortune" that was which never once permitted him to have one year's
income beforehand, and compelled him almost always to forestall the profit of his new works,
the reader may imagine. He received latterly £100 for an article, and commonly furnished one
for each number. What more was needful had to be made up by his other works, which as they
were always published upon the terms of the publisher taking the risk and sharing the profits,
produced him but little, considering the length of time they were often in preparation, and
as he was constantly adding new purchases to his library, but little was to be reckoned upon
this account. For the Peninsular War he received £1000, but the copyright remained the property
of the publisher.

With regard to his mode of life, although it was as simple and inexpensive as possible, his
expenditure was with difficulty kept within his income, though he had indeed a most faithful
helpmate, who combined with a wise and careful economy a liberality equal to his own in any
case of distress. One reason for this difficulty was, that considerable sums were, not now
and then, but regularly, drawn from him by his less successful relatives.

The house which for so many years was his residence at Keswick, though well situated both for
convenience and for beauty of prospect, was unattractive in external appearance, and to most
families would have been an undesirable residence. Having originally been two houses, afterward
thrown together, it consisted of a good many small rooms, connected by long passages, all of
which with great ingenuity he made available for holding books, with which indeed the house
was lined from top to bottom. His own sitting-room, which was the largest in the house, was
filled with the handsomest of them, arranged with much taste, according to his own fashion,
with due regard to size, color, and condition; and he used to contemplate these, his carefully
accumulated and much prized treasures, with even more pleasure and pride than the greatest
connoisseur his finest specimens of the old masters: and justly, for they were both the necessaries
and the luxuries of life to him; both the very instruments whereby he won, hardly enough, his
daily bread, and the source of all his pleasures and recreations--the pride of his eyes and
the joy of his heart.

His Spanish and Portuguese collection, which at one time was one of the best, if not itself
the best to be found in the possession of any private individual, was the most highly-prized
portion of his library. It had been commenced by his uncle, Mr. Hill, long prior to my father's
first visit to Lisbon; and having originated in the love Mr. Hill himself had for the literature
of those countries, it was carried forward with more ardor when he found that his nephew's
taste and abilities were likely to turn it to good account. It comprised a considerable number
of manuscripts, some of them copied by Mr. Hill from rare MSS. in private and convent libraries.

Many of these old books being in vellum or parchment bindings, he had taken much pains to render
them ornamental portions of the furniture of his shelves. His brother Thomas was skillful in
calligraphy; and by his assistance their backs were painted with some bright color, and upon
it the title placed lengthwise in large gold letters of the old English type. Any one who had
visited his library will remember the tastefully-arranged pyramids of these curious-looking books.

Another fancy of his was to have all those books of lesser value, which had become ragged and
dirty, covered, or rather bound, in colored cotton prints, for the sake of making them clean
and respectable in their appearance, it being impossible to afford the cost of having so many
put into better bindings.

Of this task his daughters, aided by any female friends who might be staying with them, were
the performers; and not fewer than from 1200 to 1400 volumes were so bound by them at different
times, filling completely one room, which he designated as the Cottonian library. With this
work he was much interested and amused, as the ladies would often suit the pattern to the contents,
clothing a Quaker work or a book of sermons in sober drab, poetry in some flowery design, and
sometimes contriving a sly piece of satire at the contents of some well-known author by their
choice of its covering. One considerable convenience attended this eccentric mode of binding--the
book became as well known by its dress as by its contents, and much more easily found.

With respect to his mode of acquiring and arranging the contents of a book, it was somewhat
peculiar. He was as rapid a reader as could be conceived, having the power of perceiving by
a glance down the page whether it contained any thing which he was likely to make use of--a
slip of paper lay on his desk, and was used as a marker, and with a slight penciled S he would
note the passage, put a reference on the paper, with some brief note of the subject, which
he could transfer to his note-book, and in the course of a few hours he had classified and
arranged every thing in the work which it was likely he would ever want. It was thus, with
a remarkable memory (not so much for the facts or passages themselves, but for their existence
and the authors that contained them), and with this kind of index, both to it and them, that
he had at hand a command of materials for whatever subject he was employed upon, which has
been truly said to be "unequaled."

Many of the choicest passages he would transcribe himself at odds and ends of times, or employ
one of his family to transcribe for him; and these are the extracts which form his "Commonplace
Book," recently published; but those of less importance he had thus within reach in case he
wished to avail himself of them. The quickness with which this was done was very remarkable.
I have often known him receive a parcel of books one afternoon, and the next have found his
mark throughout perhaps two or three different volumes; yet, if a work took his attention particularly,
he was not rapid in its perusal; and on some authors, such as the Old Divines, he "fed," as
he expressed it, slowly and carefully, dwelling on the page and taking in its contents deeply
and deliberately--like an epicure with his "wine searching the subtle flavor."

His library at his death consisted of about 14,000 volumes; probably the largest number of
books ever collected by a person of such limited means. Among these he found most of the materials
for all he did, and almost all he wished to do; and though sometimes he lamented that his collection
was not a larger one, it is probable that it was more to his advantage that it was in some
degree limited. As it was, he collected an infinitely greater quantity of materials for every
subject he was employed upon than ever he made use of, and his published Notes give some idea,
though an inadequate one, of the vast stores he thus accumulated.

On this subject he writes to his cousin, Herbert Hill, at that time one of the librarians of
the "Bodleian:"--"When I was at the British Museum the other day, walking through the rooms
with Carey, I felt that to have lived in that library, or in such a one, would have rendered
me perfectly useless, even if it had not made me mad. The sight of such countless volumes made
me feel how impossible it would be to pursue any subject through all the investigations into
which it would lead me, and that therefore I should either lose myself in the vain pursuit,
or give up in despair, and read for the future with no other object than that of immediate
gratification. This was an additional reason for being thankful for my own lot, aware as I
am that I am always tempted to pursue a train of inquiry too far."

The reader need not be told that the sorrows and anxieties of the last few years of my father's
life had produced, as might be expected, a very injurious effect upon his constitution, both
as to body and mind. Acutely sensitive by nature, deep and strong in his affections, and highly
predisposed to nervous disease, he had felt the sad affliction which had darkened his latter
years far more keenly than any ordinary observer would have supposed, or than even appears
in his letters. He had, indeed, then, as he expressed himself in his letter declining the Baronetcy,
been "shaken at the root;" and while we must not forget the more than forty years of incessant
mental application which he had passed through, it was this stroke of calamity which most probably
greatly hastened the coming of the evil day, if it was not altogether the cause of it, and
which rapidly brought on that overclouding of the intellect which soon unequivocally manifested
itself.

This, indeed, in its first approaches, had been so gradual as to have almost escaped notice;
and it was not until after the sad truth was fully ascertained, that indications of failure
(some of which I have already alluded to) which had appeared some time previously, were called
to mind. A loss of memory on certain points, a lessening acuteness of the perceptive faculties,
an occasional irritability (wholly unknown in him before); a confusion of time, place, and
person; the losing his way in well-known places--all were remembered as having taken place,
when the melancholy fact had become too evident that the powers of his mind were irreparably
weakened.

On his way home in the year 1839, he passed a few days in London, and then his friends plainly
saw, what, from the altered manner of the very few and brief letters he had latterly written,
they had already feared, that he had so failed as to have lost much of the vigor and activity
of his faculties. The impressions of one of his most intimate friends, as conveyed at the time
by letter, may fitly be quoted here. "I have just come home from a visit which affected me
deeply.... It was to Southey, who arrived in town to-day from Hampshire with his wife.... He
is (I fear) much altered. The animation and peculiar clearness of his mind quite gone, except
a gleam or two now and then. What he said was much in the spirit of his former mind as far
as the matter and meaning went, but the tone of strength and elasticity was wanting. The appearance
was that of a placid languor, sometimes approaching to torpor, but not otherwise than cheerful.
He is thin and shrunk in person, and that extraordinary face of his has no longer the fire
and strength it used to have, though the singular cast of the features, and the habitual expressions,
make it still a most remarkable phenomenon. Upon the whole, I came away with a troubled heart."
... After a brief account of the great trials of my father's late years, the writer continues:
"He has been living since his marriage in Hampshire, where he has not had the aid of his old
habits and accustomed books to methodize his mind. All this considered, I think we may hope
that a year or two of quiet living at his own home may restore him. His easy, cheerful temperament
will be greatly in his favor. You must help me to hope this, for I could not bear to think
of the decay of that great mind and noble nature--at least not of its premature decay. Pray
that this may be averted, as I have this night."[6]

On the following day the same friend writes: "I think I am a little relieved about Southey
to-day. I have seen him three times in the course of the day, and on each occasion he was so
easy and cheerful that I should have said his manner and conversation did not differ, in the
most part, from what it would have been in former days, if he had happened to be very tired.
I say for the most part only, though, for there was once an obvious confusion of ideas. He
lost himself for a moment; he was conscious of it, and an expression passed over his countenance
which was exceedingly touching--an expression of pain and also of resignation. I am glad to
learn from his brother that he is aware of his altered condition, and speaks of it openly.
This gives a better aspect to the case than if he could believe that nothing was the matter
with him. Another favorable circumstance is, that he will deal with himself wisely and patiently.
The charm of his manner is perhaps even enhanced at present (at least when one knows the circumstances),
by the gentleness and patience which pervade it. His mind is beautiful even in its debility."

Much of my father's failure in its early stages was at first ascribed by those anxiously watching
him, to repeated attacks of the influenza--at that time a prevailing epidemic--from which he
had suffered greatly, and to which he attributed his own feelings of weakness; but alas! the
weakness he felt was as much mental as bodily (though he had certainly declined much in bodily
strength), and after his return home it gradually increased upon him. The uncertain step--the
confused manner--the eye once so keen and so intelligent, now either wandering restlessly or
fixed as it were in blank contemplation--all showed that the over-wrought mind was worn out.

One of the plainest signs of this was the cessation of his accustomed labors; but while doing
nothing (with him how plain a proof that nothing could be done), he would frequently anticipate
a coming period of his usual industry. His mind, while any spark of its reasoning powers remained,
was busy with its old day-dreams--the History of Portugal--the History of the Monastic Orders--the
Doctor--all were soon to be taken in hand in earnest--all completed, and new works added to these.

For a considerable time after he had ceased to compose, he took pleasure in reading, and the
habit continued after the power of comprehension was gone. His dearly-prized books, indeed,
were a pleasure to him almost to the end, and he would walk slowly round his library looking
at them, and taking them down mechanically.

In the earlier stages of his disorder (if the term may be fitly applied to a case which was
not a perversion of the faculties, but their decay) he could still converse at times with much
of his old liveliness and energy. When the mind was, as it were, set going upon some familiar
subject, for a little time you could not perceive much failure; but if the thread was broken,
if it was a conversation in which new topics were started, or if any argument was commenced,
his powers failed him at once, and a painful sense of this seemed to come over him for the
moment. His recollection first failed as to recent events, and his thoughts appeared chiefly
to dwell upon those long past, and as his mind grew weaker, these recollections seemed to recede
still farther back. Names he could rarely remember, and more than once, when trying to recall
one which he felt he ought to know, I have seen him press his hand upon his brow and sadly
exclaim, "Memory! memory! where art thou gone?"

But this failure altogether was so gradual, and at the same time so complete, that I am inclined
to hope and believe there was not on the whole much painful consciousness of it; and certainly
for more than a year preceding his death, he passed his time as in a dream, with little, if
any knowledge of what went on around him.

One circumstance connected with the latter years of his life deserves to be noticed as very
singular. His hair, which previously was almost snowy white, grew perceptibly darker, and I
think, if any thing, increased in thickness and a disposition to curl.

But it is time I drew a vail over these latter scenes. They are too painful to dwell on.

   "A noble mind in sad decay,
   When baffled hope has died away,
   And life becomes one long distress
   In pitiable helplessness.
   Methinks 'tis like a ship on shore,
   That once defied the Atlantic's roar,
   And gallantly through gale and storm
   Hath ventured her majestic form;
   But now in stranded ruin laid,
   By winds and dashing seas decayed,
   Forgetful of her ocean reign,
   Must crumble into earth again."[7]

In some cases of this kind, toward the end, some glimmering of reason re-appears, but this
must be when the mind is obscured or upset, not, as in this case, apparently worn out. The
body gradually grew weaker, and disorders appeared which the state of the patient rendered
it almost impossible to treat properly; and, after a short attack of fever, the scene closed
on the 21st of March, 1843, and a second time had we cause to feel deeply thankful, when the
change from life to death, or more truly from death to life, took place.

