Yet during the winter and early spring the conduct of the Jacobin party in the Assembly, and
of the Parisian mob whom they were keeping in a constant state of excitement, increased in
violence; while one occurrence which took place was, in Mirabeau's opinion, especially calculated
to prompt a suspicion of the king's intentions. Louis had at, last, and with extreme reluctance,
sanctioned, the bill which required the clergy to take an oath to comply with the new ecclesiastical
arrangements, in the vain hope that the framers of it would be content with their triumph,
and would forbear to enforce it by fixing any precise date for administering the oath. But,
at the end of January, Barnave obtained from the Assembly a decree that it should be taken
within twenty-four hours, under the penalty of deprivation of all their preferments to all
who should refuse it; the clerical members of the Assembly were even threatened by the mob
in the galleries with instant death if they declined or even delayed to swear. And as very
few of any rank complied, the main body of the clergy was instantly stripped of all their appointments
and reduced to beggary, and a large proportion of them fled at once from the kingdom. Those
who took the oath, and who in consequence were appointed to the offices thus vacated, were
immediately condemned and denounced by the pope; and the consequence was that a great number
of their flocks fled with their old priests, not being able to reconcile to their consciences
to stay and receive the sacrament and rites of the Church from ministers under the ban of its head.

Among those who thus fled were the king's two aunts, the Princesses Adelaide and Victoire.
Bigotry was their only virtue; and they determined to seek shelter in Rome. Louis highly disapproved
of the step, which, as Mirabeau,[14] in a very elaborate and forcible memorial which he drew
up and submitted to him, pointed out, might be very dangerous for the king and queen as well
as for themselves, since it could be easily represented by the evil-minded as a certain proof
that they also were designing to flee. And he even recommended that Louis should formally notify
to the Assembly that he disapproved of his aunts' journey, and should make it a pretext for
demanding a law which should give him the power of regulating the movements of the members
of his family.

The flight of the princesses, however, did not, as it turned out, cause any inconvenience to
the king or queen, though it did endanger themselves; for, though they were furnished with
passports, the municipal authorities tried to stop them at Moret; and at Arnay-le-Duc the mob
unharnessed their horses and detained them by force They appealed to the Assembly by letter;
Alexander Lameth, on this occasion uniting with the most violent Jacobins, was not ashamed
to move that orders should be dispatched to send them back to Paris: but the body of the Assembly
had not yet descended to the baseness of warring with women; and Mirabeau, who treated the
proposal as ridiculous, and overwhelmed the mover with his wit, had no difficulty in procuring
an order that the fugitives, "two princesses of advanced age and timorous consciences," as
he called them, should be allowed to proceed on their journey.

The mob, however, was more completely under Jacobin influence; and, at the end of February,
Santerre collected his ruffians for a fresh tumult; the object now being the destruction of
the old castle of Vincennes, which for some time had been almost unoccupied. La Fayette, whose
object at this time was apparently regulated by a desire to make all parties acknowledge his
influence, in a momentary fit of resolution marched a body of his National Guard down to save
the old fortress, in which he succeeded, though not without much difficulty, and even some
danger. He found he had greatly miscalculated his influence, not only over the populace, but
over his own soldiers. The rioters fired on him, wounding some of his staff; and at first many
of the soldiers refused to act against the people. His officers, however, full of indignation,
easily quelled the spirit of mutiny; and, when subordination was restored, proposed to the
general to follow up his success by marching at once back into the city and seizing the Jacobin
demagogues who had caused the riot. There was little doubt that the great majority of the citizens,
in their fear of Santerre and his gang, would joyfully have supported him in such a measure;
but La Fayette's resolution was never very consistent nor very durable. He became terrified,
not, indeed, so much at the risk to his life which he had incurred, as at the symptom that
to resist the mob might cost him his popularity; and to appease those whom he might have offended,
he proceeded to insult the king. A report had got abroad, which was not improbably well founded,
that Louis's life had been in danger, and that an assassin had been detected while endeavoring
to make his way into the Tuileries; and the report had reached a number of nobles, among whom
D'Esprémesnil, once so vehement a leader of the Opposition in Parliament, was conspicuous,
who at once hastened to the palace to defend their sovereign. It was not strange that he and
Marie Antoinette should receive them graciously; they had not of late been used to such warm-hearted
and prompt displays of attachment. But the National Guards who were on duty were jealous of
the cordial and honorable reception which those Nobles met with; they declared that to them
alone belonged the task of defending the king; though they took so little care to perform it
that they had allowed a gang of drunken desperadoes to get possession of the outer court of
the palace, where they were menacing all aristocrats with death. Louis became alarmed for the
safety of his friends, and begged them to lay aside their arms; and they had hardly done so
when La Fayette arrived. He knew that the mob was exasperated with him for his repression of
their outrages in the morning, and that some of his soldiers had not been well pleased at being
compelled to act against the rioters. So now, to recover their good-will, he handed over the
weapons of the Nobles, which were only pistols, rapiers, and daggers, to the National Guard;
and after reproaching D'Esprémesnil and his companions for interfering with the duties of his
troops, he drove them down the stairs, unarmed and defenseless as they were, among the drunken
and infuriated mob. They were hooted and ill-treated; but not only did he make no attempt to
protect them, but the next day he offered them a gratuitous insult by the publication of a
general order, addressed to his own National Guard, in which he stigmatized their conduct as
indecent, their professed zeal as suspicious, and enjoined all the officials of the palace
to take care that such persons were not admitted in future. "The king of the Constitution,"
he said, "ought to be surrounded by no defenders but the soldiers of liberty."

Marie Antoinette had good reason to speak as she did the next week to Mercy; though we can
hardly fail to remark, as a singular proof of the strength of her political prejudices, and
of the degree in which she allowed them to blind her to the objects and the worth of the few
honest or able men whom the Assembly contained, that she still regards the Constitutionalists
as only one degree less unfavorable to the king's legitimate authority than the Jacobins. And
we shall hereafter see that to this mistaken estimate she adhered almost to the end. "Mischief,"
she says, "is making progress so rapid that there is reason to fear a speedy explosion, which
can not fail to be dangerous to us, if we ourselves do not guide it There is no middle way;
either we must remain under the sword of the factions, and consequently be reduced to nothing,
if they get the upper hand, or we must submit to be fettered under the despotism of men who
profess to be well-intentioned, but who always have done, and always will do us harm. This
is what is before us, and perhaps the moment is nearer than we think, if we can not ourselves
take a decided line, or lead men's opinions by our own vigor and energetic action. What I here
say is not dictated by any exaggerated notions, nor by any disgust at our position, nor by
any restless desire to be doing something. I perfectly feel all the dangers and risks to which
we are exposed at this moment. But I see that all around us affairs are so full of terror that
it is better to perish in trying to save ourselves than to allow ourselves to be utterly crushed
in a state of absolute inaction.[1]"

And she held the same language to her brother, the emperor, assuring him that "the king and
herself were both convinced of the necessity of acting with prudence, but there were cases
in which dilatoriness might ruin every thing; and that the factious and disloyal were prosecuting
their objects with such celerity, aiming at nothing less than the utter subversion of the kingly
power, that it would be extremely dangerous not to offer a resistance to their plans.[2]" And
referring to her project of foreign aid, she reported to him that she had promises of assistance
from both Spain and Switzerland, if they could depend on the co-operation of the empire.

And still the emigrant princes were adding to her perplexity by their perverseness. She wrote
herself to the Count d'Artois to expostulate with him, and to entreat him "not to abandon himself
to projects of which the success, to say the least, was doubtful, and which would expose himself
to danger without the possibility of serving the king.[3]" No description of the relative influence
of the king and queen at this time can be so forcible as the fact that it was she who conducted
all the correspondence of the court, even with the king's brothers. But her remonstrances had
no influence. We may not impute to the king's brothers any intention to injure him; but unhappily
they had both not only a mean idea of his capacity, but a very high one, much worse founded,
of their own; and full of self-confidence and self-conceit, they took their own line, perfectly
regardless of the suspicions to which their perverse and untractable conduct exposed the king,
carrying their obstinacy so far that it was not without difficulty, that the emperor himself,
though they were in his dominions, was able to restrain their machinations.

Meanwhile, the queen was steadily carrying on the necessary arrangements for flight. Money
had to be provided, for which trustworthy agents were negotiating in Switzerland and Holland,
while some the emperor might be expected to furnish. Mirabeau marked out for himself what he
regarded as a most important share in the enterprise, undertaking to defend and justify their
departure to the Assembly, and nothing doubting that he should be able to bring over the majority
of the members to his view of that subject, as he had before prevailed upon them to sanction
the journey of the princesses. But in the first days of April all the hopes of success which
had been founded on his cooperation and support were suddenly extinguished by his death. Though
he had hardly entered upon middle age, a constant course of excess had made him an old man
before his time. In the latter part of March he was attacked by an illness which his physicians
soon pronounced mortal, and on the 2d of April he died. He had borne the approach of death
with firmness, professing to regret it more for the sake of his country than for his own. He
was leaving behind him no one, as he affirmed, who would he able to arrest the Revolution as
he could have done; and there can be no doubt that the great bulk of the nation did place confidence
in his power to offer effectual resistance to the designs of the Jacobins. The various parties
in the State showed this feeling equally by the different manner in which they received the
intelligence. The court and the Royalists openly lamented him. The Jacobins, the followers
of Lameth, and the partisans of the Duke of Orleans, exhibited the most indecent exultation.[4]
But the citizens of Paris mourned for him, apparently, without reference to party views. They
took no heed of the opposition with which he had of late often defeated the plots of the leaders
whom they had followed to riot and treason. They cast aside all recollection of the denunciations
of him as a friend to the court with which the streets had lately rung. In their eyes he was
the personification of the Revolution as a whole; to him, as they viewed his career for the
last two years, they owed the independence of the Assembly, the destruction of the Bastile,
and of all other abuses; and through him they doubted not still to obtain every thing that
was necessary for the completion of their freedom.

His remains were treated with honors never before paid to a subject. He lay in state; he had
a public funeral. His body was laid in the great Church of St. Geneviève, which, the very day
before, had been renamed the Pantheon, and appropriated as a cemetery for such of her illustrious
sons as France might hereafter think worthy of the national gratitude. Yet, though his great
confidant and panegyrist, M. Dumont,[5] has devoted an elaborate argument to prove that he
had not overestimated his power to influence the future; and though the Russian embassador,
M. Simolin, a diplomatist of extreme acuteness, seems to imply the same opinion by his pithy
saying that "he ought to have lived two years longer, or died two years earlier," we can hardly
agree with them. La Marck, as has been seen, even when first opening the negotiation for his
connection with the court, doubted whether he would be able to undo the mischief which he had
acquiesced in, measures not of reform nor of reconstruction, but of total abolition and destruction,
are in their very nature irrevocable and irremediable. The nobility was gone; he had not resisted
its suppression. The Church was gone; he had himself been among the foremost of its assailants.
How, even if he had wished it, could he have undone these acts? and if he could not, how, without
those indispensable pillars and supports, could any monarchy endure? That he was now fully
alive to the magnitude of the dangers which encompassed both throne and people, and that he
would have labored vigorously to avert them, we may do him the justice to believe. But it seems
not so probable that he would have succeeded, as that he would have added one more to the list
of these politicians who, having allowed their own selfish aims to carry them beyond the limits
of prudence and justice, have afterward found it impossible to retrace their steps, but have
learned to their shame and sorrow that their rashness has but led to the disappointment of
their hopes, the permanent downfall of their own reputations, and the ruin of what they would
gladly have defended and preserved. And, on the whole, it is well that from time to time such
lessons should be impressed upon the world. It is well that men of lofty genius and pure patriotism
should learn, equally with the most shallow empiric or the most self-seeking demagogue, that
false steps in politics can rarely be retraced; that concessions once made can seldom, if ever,
be recalled, but are usually the stepping-stones to others still more extensive; that what
it would have been easy to preserve, it is commonly impossible to repair or to restore.

He had been laid in the grave only a fortnight, when, as if on purpose to show how utterly
defenseless the king now was, the Jacobins excited the mob and the assembly to inflict greater
insults on him than had been offered even by the attack on Versailles, or by any previous vote.
As Easter, which was unusually late this year, approached, Louis became anxious to spend a
short time in tranquillity and holy meditation; and, since the tumultuousness of the city was
not very favorable for such a purpose, he resolved to pass a fortnight at St. Cloud. But when
he was preparing to set out, a furious mob seized the horses and unharnessed them; the National
Guards united with the rioters, refusing to obey La Fayette's orders to clear the way for the
royal carriage, and the king and queen were compelled to dismount and to return to their apartments;
while, a day or two afterward, the Assembly came to a vote which seemed as if designed for
an express sanction of this outrage, and which ordained that the king should not be permitted
ever to move more than twenty leagues from Paris.

Of all the decrees which it had yet enacted, this, in some sense, may be regarded as the most
monstrous. It was not only passing a penal sentence on the royal family such as in no country
or age any but convicted criminals had even been subjected to, but it was an insult and an
injury to every part of the kingdom except the capital, which, by an intolerable assumption,
it treated as if it were the whole of France. Joseph, as has been seen, had wisely pointed
out to his brother-in-law that it was one, and no unimportant part, of a sovereign's duty to
visit the different provinces and chief cities of his kingdom, and Louis had in one instance
acted on his advice. We have seen how gladly he was received by the citizens of Cherbourg,
and what advantages they promised themselves from his having thus made himself personally acquainted
with their situation and wants and prospects; and we can not doubt that other towns and cities
shared this feeling, nor that it was well founded, and that the acquisition by a king of a
personal knowledge of the resources and capabilities and interests of the great cities, of
agriculture, manufactures, and commerce, is a benefit to the whole community; but of this every
province and every city but Paris was now to be deprived. It was to be an offense to visit
Rouen, or Lyons, or Bordeaux; to examine Riquet's canal or Vauban's fortifications. The king
was the only person in the kingdom to whom liberty of movement was to be denied; and the peasants
of every province, and the citizens of every other town, were to be refused for a single day
the presence of their sovereign, whom the Parisians thus claimed a right to keep as a prisoner
in their own district.

It is hardly strange that such open attacks on their liberty made a deeper impression on the
queen, and even on the phlegmatic disposition of the king, than any previous act of violence,
or that it increased their eagerness to escape with as little delay as possible. Indeed, the
queen regarded the public welfare as equally concerned with their own in their safe establishment
in some town to which they should also be able to remove the Assembly, so that that body as
well as themselves should be protected from the fatal influence of the clubs of Paris, and
of the populace which was under the dominion of the clubs.[6] Accordingly, on the 20th of April,
she writes to the emperor[7] that "the occurrence which has just taken place has confirmed
them more than ever in their plans. The very guards who surrounded them are the persons who
threaten them most. Their very lives are not safe; but they must appear to submit to every
thing till the moment comes when they can act; and in the mean time their captivity proves
that none of their actions are done by their own accord." And she urges her brother at once
to move a strong body of troops toward some of his fortresses on the Belgian frontier--Arlon,
Vitron, or Mons--in order to give M. de Bouillé a pretext for collecting troops and munitions
of war at Montmédy. "Send me an immediate answer on this point; let me know, too, about the
money; our position is frightful, and we must absolutely put an end to it next month. The king
desires it even more than I do."

As May proceeds she presses on her preparations, and urges the emperor to accelerate his, especially
the movements of his troops; but the Count d'Artois and his followers are a terrible addition
to her anxieties. Leopold had told her that the ancient minister, Calonne, always restless
and always unscrupulous, was now with the count, and was busily stirring him up to undertake
some enterprise or other;[8] and her reply shows how justly she dreads the results of such
an alliance. "The prince, the Count d'Artois, and all those whom they have about them, seem
determined to be doing something. They have no proper means of action, and they will ruin us,
without our having the slightest connection with their plans. Their indiscretion, and the men
who are guiding them, will prevent our communicating our secret to them till the very last moment."

To Mercy she is even more explicit in her description of the imminence of the danger to which
the king and she are now exposed than she had been to her brother. As the time for attempting
to escape grew nearer, the embassador became the more painfully impressed with the danger of
the attempt. Failure, as it seems to him, will be absolutely fatal. He asks her anxiously whether
the necessity is such that it has become indispensable to risk such a result;[9] and she, in
an answer of considerable length and admirable clearness of expression and argument, explains
her reasons for deciding that it is absolutely unavoidable: "The only alternative for us, especially
since the 18th of April,[10] is either blindly to submit to all that the factions require,
or to perish by the sword which is forever suspended over our heads. Believe me, I am not exaggerating
the danger; you know that my notion used to be, as long as I could cherish it, to trust to
gentleness, to time, and to public opinion. But now all is changed, and we must either perish
or take the only line which remains to us. We are far from shutting our eyes to the fact that
this line also has its perils; but, if we must die, it will be at least with glory, and in
having done all that we could for our duty, for honor, and for religion.... I believe that
the provinces are less corrupted than the capital; but it is always Paris which gives the tone
to the whole kingdom. We should greatly deceive ourselves if we fancied that the events of
the 18th of April, horrible as they were, produced any excitement in the provinces. The clubs
and the affiliations lead France where they please; the right-thinking people, and those who
are dissatisfied with what is taking place, either flee from the country or hide themselves,
because they are not the stronger party, and because they have no rallying-point. But when
the king can show himself freely in a fortified place, people will be astonished to see the
number of dissatisfied people who will then come forward, who, till that time, are groaning
in silence; but the longer we delay, the less support we shall have....

"Let us resume. You ask two questions: 1st. Is it possible or useful to wait? No; by the explanation
of our position which I gave at the beginning of this letter, I have sufficiently proved the
impossibility.... As to the usefulness, it could only be useful on the supposition that we
could count on a new legislative body.... 2d. Admitting the necessity of acting promptly, are
we sure of means to escape; of a place to retreat to, and of having a party strong enough to
maintain itself for two months by its own resources? I have answered this question several
times. It is more than probable that the king, once escaped from here, and in a place of safety,
will have, and will very soon find, a very strong party. The means of escape depend on a flight
the most immediate and the most secret. There are only four persons who are acquainted with
our secret; and those whom we mean to take with us will not know it till the very moment. None
of our own people will attend us; and at a distance of only thirty or thirty-five leagues we
shall find some troops to protect our march, but not enough to cause us to be recognized till
we reach the place of our destination.

"....I can easily conceive the repugnance which, on political grounds, the emperor would feel
to allowing his troops to enter France.... But if their movement is solicited by his brother-in-law,
his ally, whose life, existence, and honor are in danger, I conceive the case is very different;
and as to Brabant, that province will never be quiet till this country is brought back to a
different state. It is, then, for himself also that my brother will be working in giving us
this assistance, which is so much the more valuable to us, that his troops will serve as an
example to ours, and will even be able to restrain them.

"And it is with this view that the person[11] of whom I spoke to you in my letter in cipher
demands their employment for a time ... We can not delay longer than the end of this month.
By that time I hope we shall have a decisive answer from Spain. But till the very instant of
our departure we must do everything that is required of us, and even appear to go to meet them.
It is one way, perhaps the only one, to lull the mob to sleep and to save our lives."

Marie Antoinette, as we have seen, had been anxious that their departure from Paris should
not be delayed beyond the end of May, and De Bouillé had agreed with her; but enterprises of
so complicated a character can rarely be executed with the rapidity or punctuality that is
desired, and it was not till the 20th of June that this movement, on which so much depended,
was able to be put in execution. Often during the preceding weeks the queen's heart sunk within
her when she reflected on the danger of discovery, whether from the acuteness of her enemies
or the treachery of pretended friends; and even more when she pondered on the character of
the king himself, so singularly unfitted for an undertaking in which it was not the passive
courage with which he was amply endowed, but daring resolution, promptitude, and presence of
mind, which were requisite. She was cheered, however, by repeated letters from the emperor,
showing the warm and affectionate interest which he took in the result of the enterprise, and
promising with evident sincerity "his own most cordial co-operation in all that could tend
to her and her husband's success, when the time should come for him to show himself."

But her main reliance was on herself; and all who were privy to the enterprise knew well that
it was on her forethought and courage that its success wholly depended. Those who were privy
to it were very few; and it is a singular proof how few Frenchmen, even of the highest rank,
could be trusted at this time, that of these few two were foreigners--a Swede, the Count de
Fersen, whose name has been mentioned in earlier chapters of this narrative, and (an English
writer may be proud to add) an Englishman, Mr. Craufurd. In such undertakings the simplest
arrangements are the safest; and those devised by the queen and her advisers, the chief of
whom were De Fersen and De Bouillé, were as simple as possible. The royal fugitives were to
pass for a traveling party of foreigners. A passport signed by M. Montmorin, who still held
the seals of the Foreign Department, was provided for Madame de Tourzel, who, assuming the
name of Madame de Korff, a Russian baroness, professed to be returning to her own country with
her family and her ordinary equipage. The dauphin and his sister were described as her children,
the queen as their governess; while the king himself, under the name of Durand, was to pass
as their servant. Three of the old disbanded Body-guard, MM. De Valory, De Malden, and De Moustier,
were to attend the party in the disguise of couriers; and, under the pretense of providing
for the safe conveyance of a large sum of money which was required for the payment of the troops,
De Bouillé undertook to post a detachment of soldiers at each town between Châlons and Montmédy,
through which the travelers were to pass.

Some of the other arrangements were more difficult, as more likely to lead to a betrayal of
the design. It was, of course, impossible to use any royal carriage, and no ordinary vehicle
was large enough to hold such a party. But in the preceding year De Fersen had had a carriage
of unusual dimensions built for some friends in the South of Europe, so that he had no difficulty
now in procuring another of similar pattern from the same maker; and Mr. Craufurd agreed to
receive it into his stables, and at the proper hour to convey it outside the barrier.

Yet in spite of the care displayed in these arrangements, and of the absolute fidelity observed
by all to whom the secret was intrusted, some of the inferior attendants about the court suspected
what was in agitation. The queen herself, with some degree of imprudence, sent away a large
package to Brussels; one of her waiting-women discovered that she and Madame Campan had spent
an evening in packing up jewels, and sent warning to Gouvion, an aid-de-camp of La Fayette,
and to Bailly, the mayor, that the queen at last was preparing to flee. Luckily Bailly had
received so many similar notices that he paid but little attention to this; or perhaps he was
already beginning to feel the repentance, which he afterward exhibited, at his former insolence
to his sovereign, and was not unwilling to contribute to their safety by his inaction; while
Gouvion was not anxious to reveal the source from which he had obtained his intelligence. Still,
though nothing precise was known, the attention of more than one person was awakened to the
movements of the royal family, and especially that of La Fayette, who, alarmed lest his prisoners
should escape him, redoubled his vigilance, driving down to the palace every night, and often
visiting them in their apartments to make himself certain of their presence. Six hundred of
the National Guard were on duty at the Tuileries, and sentinels were placed at the end of every
passage and at the foot of every staircase; but fortunately a small room, with a secret door
which led into the queen's chamber, as it had been for some time unoccupied, had escaped the
observation of the officers on guard, and that passage therefore offered a prospect of their
being able to reach the courtyard without being perceived.[1]

On the morning of the day appointed for the great enterprise, all in the secret were vividly
excited except the queen. She alone preserved her coolness. No one could have guessed from
her demeanor that she was on the point of embarking in an undertaking on which, in her belief,
her own life and the lives of all those dearest to her depended. The children, who knew nothing
of what was going on, went to their usual occupations--the dauphin to his garden on the terrace,
Madame Royale to her lessons; and Marie Antoinette herself, after giving some orders which
were to be executed in the course of the next day or two, went out riding with her sister-in-law
in the Bois de Boulogne. Her conversation throughout the day was light and cheerful. She jested
with the officer on guard about the reports which she understood to be in circulation about
some intended flight of the king, and was relieved to find that he totally disbelieved them.
She even ventured on the same jest with La Fayette himself, who replied, in his usual surly
fashion, that such a project was constantly talked of; but even his rudeness could not discompose
her.

As the hour drew near she began to prepare her children. The princess was old enough to be
talked to reasonably, and she contented herself, therefore, with warning her to show no surprise
at any thing that she might see or hear. The dauphin was to be disguised as a girl, and it
was with great glee that he let the attendants dress him, saying that he saw that they were
going to act a play. The royal supper usually took place soon after nine; at half-past ten
the family separated for the night, and by eleven their attendants were all dismissed; and
Marie Antoinette had fixed that hour for departing, because, even if the sentinels should get
a glimpse of them, they would be apt to confound them with the crowd which usually quit the
palace at that time.

Accordingly, at eleven o'clock the Count de Fersen, dressed as a coachman, drove an ordinary
job-carriage into the court-yard; and Marie Antoinette, who trusted nothing to others which
she could do herself, conducted Madame de Tourzel and the children down-stairs, and seated
them safely in the carriage. But even her nerves nearly gave way when La Fayette's coach, brilliantly
lighted, drove by, passing close to her as he proceeded to the inner court to ascertain from
the guard that every thing was in its usual condition. In an agony of fright she sheltered
herself behind some pillars, and in a few minutes the marquis drove back, and she rejoined
the king, who was awaiting her summons in his own apartment, while one of the disguised Body-guards
went for the Princess Elizabeth. Even the children were inspired with their mother's courage.
As the princess got into the carriage she trod on the dauphin, who was lying in concealment
at the bottom, and the brave boy spoke not a word; while Louis himself gave a remarkable proof
how, in spite of the want of moral and political resolution which had brought such miseries
on himself and his country, he could yet preserve in the most critical moments his presence
of mind and kind consideration for others. He was half way down-stairs when he returned to
his room. M. Valory, who was escorting him, was dismayed when he saw him turn back, and ventured
to remind him how precious was every instant. "I know that," replied the kind-hearted monarch;
"but they will murder my servant to-morrow for having aided my escape;" and, sitting down at
his table, he wrote a few lines declaring that the man had acted under his peremptory orders,
and gave the note to him as a certificate to protect him from accusation. When all the rest
were seated, the queen took her place. De Fersen drove them to the Porte St. Martin, where
the great traveling-carriage was waiting, and, having transferred them to it, and taken a respectful
leave of them, he fled at once to Brussels, which, more fortunate than those for whom he had
risked his life, he reached in safety.

For a hundred miles the royal fugitives proceeded rapidly and without interruption. One of
the supposed couriers was on the box, another rode by the side of the carriage, and the third
went on in advance to see that the relays were in readiness. Before midday they reached Châlons,
the place where they were to be met by the first detachment of De Bouillé's troops; and, when
the well-known uniforms met her eye, Marie Antoinette for the first time gave full expression
to her feelings. "Thank God, we are saved!" she exclaimed, clasping her hands; the fervor of
her exclamation bearing undesigned testimony to the greatness of the fears which, out of consideration
for others, she had hitherto kept to herself; but in truth out of this employment of the troops
arose all their subsequent disasters.

De Bouillé had been unwilling to send his detachments so far forward, pointing out that the
notice which their arrival in the different towns was sure to attract would do more harm than
their presence as a protection could do good. But his argument had been overruled by the king
himself, who apprehended the greatest danger from the chance of being overtaken, and expected
it, therefore, to increase with every hour of the journey. De Bouillé's fears, however, were
found to be the best justified by the event. In more than one town, even in the few hours that
had elapsed since the arrival of the soldiers, there had been quarrels between them and the
towns-people; in others, which was still worse, the populace had made friends with them and
seduced them from their loyalty, so that the officers in command had found it necessary to
withdraw them altogether; and anxiety at their unexpected absence caused Louis more than once
to show himself at the carriage window. More than once he was recognized by people who knew
him and kept his counsel; but Drouet, the postmaster at Ste. Menehould, a town about one hundred
and seventy miles from Paris, was of a less loyal disposition. He had lately been in the capital,
where he had become infected with the Jacobin doctrines. He too saw the king's face, and on
comparing his somewhat striking features with the stamp on some public documents which he chanced
to have in his pocket, became convinced of his identity. He at once reported to the magistrates
what he had seen, and with their sanction rode forward to the next town, Clermont, hoping to
be able to collect a force sufficient to stop the royal carriage on its arrival there. But
the king traveled so fast that he had quit Clermont before Drouet reached it, and he even arrived
at Varennes before his pursuer. Had he quit that place also he would have been in safety, for
just beyond it De Bouillé had posted a strong division which would have been able to defy all
resistance. But Varennes, a town on the Oise, was so small as to have no post-house, and by
some mismanagement the royal party had not been informed at which end of the town they were
to find the relay. The carriage halted while M. Valory was making the necessary inquiries;
and, while it was standing still, Drouet rode up and forbade the postilions to proceed. He
himself hastened on through the town, collected a few of the towns-people, and with their aid
upset a cart or two on the bridge to block up the way; and, having thus made the road impassable,
he roused the municipal authorities, for it was nearly midnight, and then, returning to the
royal carriage, he compelled the royal family to dismount and follow him to the house of the
mayor, a petty grocer, whose name was Strausse. The magistrates sounded the tocsin: the National
Guard beat to arms: the king and queen were prisoners.

