We are sure all young people will read with pleasure the following description of a very remarkable
dog which belonged to the Hon. Alexander H. Stephens. This dog, which is mentioned in the Life
of Mr. Stephens, was a very large and fine white poodle, named Rio, a dog of unusual intelligence
and affection, to which Mr. Stephens became very strongly attached. While Mr. Stephens was
in Washington, Rio staid with Linton Stephens, at Sparta, Georgia, until his master returned.
Mr. Stephens would usually come on during the session of Greene County court, where Linton
would meet him, having Rio with him in his buggy, and the dog would then return with his master.
When this had happened once or twice, the dog learned to expect him on these occasions. The
cars usually arrived at about nine o'clock at night. During the evening, Rio would be extremely
restless, and at the first sound of the approaching train he would rush from the hotel to the
dépôt, and in a few seconds would know whether his master was on the train or not, for he would
search for him through all the cars. He was well known to the conductors, and if the train
happened to start before Rio had finished his search, they would stop to let him get out. But
when his search was successful, his raptures of joy at seeing his master again were really
affecting. His intelligence was so great that he seemed to understand whatever was said to
him; at a word he would shut a door as gently as a careful servant might have done, or would
bring a cane, hat, or umbrella. He always slept in his master's room, which he scarcely left
during Mr. Stephens's attacks of illness. In a word, Mr. Stephens found in him a companion
of almost human intelligence, and of unbounded affection and fidelity, and the tie between
the man and the dog was strong and enduring.

"For nearly thirteen years he was," says Mr. Stephens, "my constant companion, when at home,
day and night, and until he became blind, a few years ago, he always attended me wherever I
went, except to Washington. You may well imagine, then, how I miss him!--miss him in the yard,
in the house, in my walks; for though blind, he used to follow me about the lot wherever I
went. When I was reading or writing, he was always at my feet. At night, too, his bed was the
foot of my own. His beautiful white thick coat of wool was soft as silk. Who that knew him
as I did could refrain from shedding a tear for poor Rio?"

Of course he was properly interred, in a coffin, in the garden, and placed in the position
in which he usually slept, with his face on his fore-feet.

The smartest Newfoundland dog yet discovered lives at Haverhill, Massachusetts. He meets the
newsboy at the gate every morning, and carries his master's paper into the house; that is,
he did so till the other day, when his master stopped taking the paper. The next morning the
dog noticing the boy passing on the other side without leaving the newspaper, went over and
took the whole bundle from him, and carried them into the house. That's the kind of dog he is.

Ike and Tommy know that Aunt Patty is awfully scared of Tramps, and so they rig up this figure,
and knock at the door. Dreadful mean, wasn't it?