It would be sheer folly to attempt a full description of that glorious view, comprising the
bays of Gaeta, Naples, and Salerno; of Vesuvius with his ascending smoky clouds; of the endless
chain of the snow-tipped Abruzzi Mountains that bound the vision to the east; of the vast expanse
of the Mediterranean, stretching in one unbroken sheet of turquoise to the west, varied by
violet patches of reflected cloud, and studded by innumerable ships, from the vast liners to
the tiny fishing craft with their glistening sails, like snow-white sea-swallows resting on
the calm waters. Again we turn to Robert Browning, most human of poets and most kindly of philosophers,
to find adequate expression for the thoughts we dare not, cannot utter.

  “Oh, heaven and the terrible crystal!
    No rampart excludes
  Your eye from the life to be lived
    In the blue solitudes.
  Oh, those mountains, their infinite movement!
    How fair! but a slave.”

We descend by the slopes of Monte Faito in the quiet of the evening, facing the distant headland
of Posilipo and the sunset, where above the horizon we see collecting thick masses of dark
purple cloud, which augur a stormy morrow. Above us the peak of the Archangel is already wreathed
in garlands of white mist, a sure sign of coming tempest, and it is amid a lurid light from
the sinking sun that we hasten downwards, bending our steps in the direction of Pozzano, where
the form of its convent stands out sharply defined against the background of the Bay. Night
is rapidly approaching, and in the gathering darkness as we strike the road below the convent,
we can already hear the ominous roaring and seething of the waters under the cliff, lashed
to fury by the first deep breaths of the coming squall. Hurrying along the broad smooth roadway
it is not long before we reach our hotel door, where we bid good night to Vincenzo, just as
the first heavy drops of rain have begun to fall; pleasantly exhausted after our long excursion,
we are ready to appreciate to the full the warmth and good cheer of the hospitable Hotel Quisisana.

                               CHAPTER III

                              LA CITTÀ MORTA

Pompeii can never be visited without the same haunting conviction, the same oppressive thought:
how terribly difficult it is to understand the City of the Dead which holds in so small a space
the whole secret of the antique world! There are far more grandiose and impressive ruins to
be seen in Rome; the city of Timgad in Northern Africa is more complete as a specimen of a
Roman settlement than the half-excavated town near Vesuvius; yet here, and here only, can the
men of the past stretch hands, as it were, across the barrier of eighteen intervening centuries
to the dweller of to-day, and the dead-and-gone spirits of a highly organized civilization
can whisper into the living ears of the twentieth century. For Pompeii will speak to us, if
we will take the trouble to learn the tongue in which alone she can convey the secret of her
story. It is needless to say that this language is not obtainable by one or two cursory visits
to the Naples Museum, and a few hurried half-hours given to the contents of the guide-book;
no, the language of Pompeii, which constitutes the key of access to the hidden chambers of
the Roman world, can only be acquired with much expenditure of precious time and with infinite
trouble. But “life is short and time is fleeting,” and our bustling age expects to seize its
required knowledge in the twinkling of an eye; well, in that case the story of Pompeii must
remain a sealed volume to the traveller, who is conveyed to the City of the Dead in a train
crammed with fellow-tourists; who eats a heavy unwholesome luncheon to the sound of mandoline-players
twanging sprightly Neapolitan airs; and who is finally piloted round the sacred area by a chattering
guide in the oppressive heat and glare of a sunny afternoon. Fatigued in mind and body, such
an one will sink with ill-concealed relief upon the dusty velvet cushions of the returning
train, thoroughly disappointed in the vaunted marvels of Pompeii, which his imagination had
led him to expect. A vague impression of low broken walls, of narrow—to his eyes absurdly narrow—streets,
of broken columns and of peeling frescoes fills his tired brain, as he is borne back to his
hotel in Naples. But this disenchantment is his own fault, for no one who sets foot within
the Sea Gate of the buried city in the proper spirit of knowledge and appreciation can possibly
fail to enjoy the privilege which has thus been afforded him—

        “to stand within the City Disinterred;
  And hear the autumnal leaves like light footfalls
  Of spirits passing through the streets; and hear
  The Mountain’s slumberous voice at intervals
      Thrill through those roofless halls.”

Before passing through the Porta Marina into the purlieus of the city, let us first of all
instil into our minds the essential difference that exists between the ruins of Pompeii and
the historic fragments of Rome or Athens. When we gaze upon the well-known sites of the vanished
glories of the Palatine or the Acropolis, we experience no effort in looking backward through
the vista of the past and in conjuring up some vague representation of the scenes that were
once enacted in these places; the more imaginative feel the very air vibrating with the unseen
spirits of men and women famous in the world’s history. He must be indeed a Philistine or a
dullard who cannot contrive to arouse a passing exaltation at the thought of treading in the
footsteps of Cicero and the Caesars in Rome, of Pericles and Socrates in Athens, for the very
soil of the Forum and the stones of the citadel of Pallas seem impregnated with the very essence
of history. But this is far from being the case at Pompeii, where long careful study of details
and a grasp of hard facts are really of more avail than a poetic imagination in reclothing
with flesh the dry bones of the past, for the importance of the Campanian city is almost purely
social. The names of many of its prominent citizens are certainly familiar to us from inscriptions
found, yet who were these persons that we should take so deep an interest in their lives and
fates? Who were Pansa the ædile, Eumachia the priestess, Caecilius Jucundus, Aulus Vettius
and Epidius Rufus, and a score of other Pompeian worthies? The answer is, they were officials
or simple dwellers in a flourishing provincial town; they had no especial literary or public
reputation; their names were probably little known beyond the walls of their own city. Imagine
an English country town, such as Exeter or Shrewsbury, suddenly overwhelmed by some unforeseen
freak of Nature and afterwards embalmed in the manner of Pompeii as a curiosity for the edification
of future ages. To what extent, we ask, would the discovery of a place of this size and population
supply the existing dweller with a complete impression of our national life and civilization
in the opening years of the twentieth century? The reply will be that it would give a very
good idea of the average provincial town, but that it would hardly serve as a fair criterion
to judge of the life pursued in the capital, or in the really large cities. Such a comparison
will afford us a certain clue to the unveiling of the mysteries of Pompeii.

For the city at the mouth of the Sarno was an ancient Campanian settlement, founded long before
the days wherein Greek adventurers beached their triremes on the shores of the Siren. It was
a native community of Oscans, deriving its name from the Oscan word pompe (five), and, unlike
Paestum, it appears to have retained its original appellation under all its successive masters.
Its primitive inhabitants seem to have intermingled with their Hellenic victors, and to have
grown civilized by intercourse with them. Temples of heavy Doric architecture were raised;
walls and watch-towers were built; and by the time the city fell into the hands of the encroaching
Romans, it had become a flourishing place with some twenty to thirty thousand inhabitants,
owing its prosperity to its excellent situation at the mouth of the river, which made Pompeii
a convenient port to serve the rich district of Campania that lies eastward of Vesuvius. Nuceria
(the modern Nocera) and the larger city of Nola were both dependent on it, for the Sarno was
in those days navigable, so that ships bringing Egyptian corn and Eastern merchandise frequently
left the Pompeian harbour and sailed up stream to unload their cargoes at these cities. Let
us picture then to ourselves a compact town, an irregular oval in form, surrounded by walls
pierced by eight gates and embellished with twelve towers; its eastern extremity towards Nocera
containing the Amphitheatre, and its most westerly point marked by the Herculaneum gate leading
to the Street of Tombs. Southward, we must imagine the sea much closer to its walls than at
the present day, for the alluvial deposits have in the course of nearly two thousand years
added many acres of solid ground to the shores of the Bay. Behind the city to the north rose
the mountain side, not seared with the traces of lava as in these days, nor surmounted by a
smoking cone, but radiant with vineyards and gardens which extended unbroken up to the very
rim of the ancient crater. Amidst the greenery of the luxuriant slopes peeped forth innumerable
farms and villas of wealthy Romans, for this exquisite spot had long become an abode of cultured
leisure. Within the closely packed streets of the town itself there were to be found few open
spaces except the Forum, and perhaps a small park in front of the amphitheatre, for the place
was prosperous, though not wealthy, and its chief citizens were forced to remain content with
the tiny gardens enclosed within the walls of their own dwellings.

Internally Pompeii presented, like many another Roman town, marks of its six hundred years
of existence. There was at least one perfect Doric temple; there were Oscan-Grecian buildings,
notably the so-called “House of the Surgeon,” with its air of old-fashioned simplicity; there
were houses of the Republican period; there were numberless dwellings of the Imperial era;
there were unfinished structures that were being completed at the time of the city’s overthrow.
For, sixteen years before Vesuvius suddenly awoke from its long sleep, the neighbourhood had
been visited by the severe earthquake shock of 63, and the effects produced by this disaster
had not nearly been effaced, when the great event of 79 transformed the town into a huge museum
for the delight and instruction of future generations. Pompeii therefore preserves the marks
of more than half a thousand years of civilization, so that those who will take the necessary
trouble can trace within its area the gradual progress of its social and political life from
the far-off days of Greeks and Oscans to the reign of the Emperor Titus. The case of a ruined
Exeter or Shrewsbury could not be widely different. The students of ensuing ages would be able
to find in the dead town one or two churches of Norman or Plantagenet times; portions of medieval
city walls and gateways, perhaps even some undoubted traces of Roman baths or fortifications;
some few public buildings erected under Tudor or Stuart sovereigns; a large number of the plain
roomy mansions of the Georgian period; and, last of all, a preponderating quantity of nineteenth
century structures of every description—churches, warehouses, factories, inns, barracks, shops,
dwelling-houses. Many would be the inscriptions and monuments we should find in such a town,
alluding to private and public persons utterly unknown to English history, but more or less
noteworthy in local annals: grandees of civic life, soldiers, philanthropists, clergymen, et
hoc genus omne. Future generations of scholars would doubtless strive eagerly to obtain details
of the careers of these provincial worthies, who filled municipal offices in the reigns of
Queen Victoria and King Edward, in order to throw more light upon the period wherein they flourished.
Let us apply then the same principles to the study of Pompeii mutatis mutandis, for in our
quest of better knowledge of the old Roman life we fix anxiously upon every detail concerning
the leading personages of the dead city. Nevertheless, it is its existence in the aggregate
that proves of surpassing interest to us; we desire to learn of the daily tasks and occupations
of the mass of its population, rather than to become acquainted with the private histories
of its leading individuals; we study the former, in fact, only as a means to a definite end.
We cry for information, which to a certain extent we can secure, as to how an average Roman
city was administered, provisioned, drained; how its inhabitants passed their time both in
leisure and in business; how they amused themselves in their homes and in the theatre; what
they ate and what they drank—the endless trifles of human life, in short, which like the tesseræ,
the tiny cubes of their own mosaic pavements, go to make up a complete picture out of a thousand
fragments. Not a few of the cubes in this case are missing, it is true, nor are they ever likely
to be found; nevertheless, we own an abundant supply wherewith we can piece together a tolerably
accurate picture of the life of a Roman provincial city during the first century of the Christian
era.

It is of course quite outside our province to attempt any detailed account of the wonders of
Pompeii. The reader who desires full information must turn to the elaborate works of Mau and
Helbig, of Gell and Overbeck, to say nothing of the descriptive pages, full of condensed knowledge,
contained in Murray’s and Baedeker’s guide-books in order to obtain a clear impression of all
he wishes to inspect. We can but dwell on a point here and there, and even then but lightly
and superficially, for any endeavour on our part to add to the statements and theories of the
great archaeologists already cited would be indeed a matter of supererogation and presumption.

Entering then by the Marine Gate, and pursuing our course eastwards along the lines of naked
broken house-fronts, we reach the great rectangular space of the Forum. Here at its southern
extremity let us select a shady corner, for the sun beats down fiercely upon the bare ruins
at every season of the year, and even on a winter’s afternoon the air often shimmers with the
heat haze, so that in no place on earth is the use of an umbrella so necessary or desirable
as at Pompeii.

What an ideal spot for the founding of a city! That is our first impression, as we glance across
the broad sunlit enclosure on to the empurpled slopes of Vesuvius rising grandly above the
broken columns of the great temple of the Capitoline Jove; behind us, we know, is the azure
Bay with Capri and the Sorrentine cape lying on its unruffled bosom, so that we stand between
sea and mountain to north and south, whilst we have the luxuriant slopes of Vesuvius to westward,
and to the east the rich valley of the Sarno, thickly dotted with groves and hamlets. One element
alone is wanting in the glorious scene before us—Life; it will be our duty and pleasure to
re-invest as far as possible this empty space before us with the semblance of the busy crowds
that once flitted in and out of its colonnades and porticoes; to rebuild in imagination its
shapeless ruins, so that we may obtain a fleeting picture of the Pompeian Forum in early Imperial
days.

Conceive, then, in front of us, instead of this long bare stretch flanked by broken walls and
strewn with shapeless fragments of brick and stone, an immense double arcade, two stories in
height, affording ample protection against sun or rain and enclosing an oblong pavement whereon
are set numerous statues of emperors or private citizens, occupying lofty positions of honour
above the heads of the surging throng below. Imagine that group of shattered pillars, which
obstructs our full view of the distant cone of Vesuvius, transformed into an imposing temple,
covered with polychrome decoration, not in the best of taste according to our modern ideas
of art, but gorgeous and cheerful in the clear atmosphere of the south. Rebuild, in the mind’s
eye, the Basilica and the temple of Apollo on the left, and straight before us, as we look
forward from our coign of vantage at the narrow southern end of the colonnade, let us plant
the three dominant statues of Augustus, Claudius and Agrippina to form our foreground. If we
can construct by stress of fancy some such setting of classical architecture, gay with primary
colours and gilding and graceful in design, it is easier to people the Pompeian Forum with
the masses of humanity that once mingled here. For we have the knowledge of modern Italian
life to guide us to a certain extent; we have seen the swarms of citizens who to-day fill the
main piazzas of the towns, especially those of the provincial type, where the morning market
is held and the chief cafés and shops are situated. But if the general use of the piazza is
characteristic of the modern second-class Italian city, this concentration of life was far
more marked in the ancient Roman town, wherein the Forum must have appeared as the very heart
of the whole body social and politic. Roman city life indeed displayed two strongly antagonistic
phases:—the utmost privacy in the home, the most public exhibition in the Forum, where every
trade and form of business were carried on in the open air, and whither pursuit of gain, or
pleasure, or religious duty led all the citizens to direct their steps. For, as we have already
shown, almost all the public life of the place was concentrated within this space and its surroundings;
temples, markets, shops, law courts, municipal offices, all abutted on the Forum; it was not
merely the chief, but the only place that drew together the daily crowd, bent alike on business
or amusement. No chariots were permitted to cross the area sacred to the claims of money-making,
of gossip, and of worship; so that we must picture to ourselves a great mass of people undisturbed
by the passing of vehicles, or by the shouts and whip-crackings of the noisy charioteers—was
ever such a thing as a quiet Italian coachman, ancient or modern, we digress to wonder! All
was orderly and decorous when compared with the quarrelling, screaming groups of citizens that
block the congested streets of modern Naples. Happily for us various paintings of the Forum
of Pompeii have been discovered, and these are naturally of immense value in helping us to
a proper understanding of the habits and methods of the people, and of the general appearance
of the Forum itself during its busiest hours. The costumes of men, women and children; the
articles of clothing and of food ready for sale; the little knots of loiterers or gossips;
the citizens intent on reading the municipal notices that are herein portrayed, all combine
to present us with an authentic picture of Pompeian and therefore of Roman civic life. “There
is nothing new under the sun,” grumbled the Preacher many centuries before the city under Vesuvius
had reached its zenith of civilization, and it must be confessed that the general impression
conveyed after studying the contemporary pictures of antique life does not differ very widely
from that which we obtain by observing present Italian conditions. For the frescoes in the
Naples Museum and in certain of the Pompeian houses seem to recall strongly the scenes of the
piazza, where all the elements of society, irrespective of rank or station, are still wont
to congregate. Differences of dress, of manner, of custom are doubtless evident enough, yet
somehow we perceive an essential sameness in these two representations of classical and modern
Italy. Nevertheless, these simple and often rude wall-paintings furnish us with many pieces
of information that we search for in vain amidst the ancient authors, who naturally considered
the commonplace everyday scenes of life beneath the notice of contemporary record. We are enabled
to learn, for instance, how the citizens were usually dressed in the Forum, and how, in an
age when hats and umbrellas were practically non-existent, the pointed hood, like that of the
Arab burnous, was often used to cover the head in cold or wet weather. Again, it is easy to
perceive from the same source that the diet of the Pompeians must have resembled closely that
of their present descendants; even the shape of the loaves has in most cases continued unchanged
to the present day. And one curious coincidence is certainly worth mentioning, in that a peculiar
method of preparing figs with caraway seeds, which was long supposed to be a local speciality
of a remote town in Central Italy, has now been recognized as a common method of dressing this
fruit for the table at Pompeii, for large quantities of figs so treated have been unearthed
in shops and kitchens. Such grains of information as the wearing of hoods and the preserving
of figs may appear trifling enough at first sight, yet it is from a number of petty details
such as these that we are assisted to an intimate understanding of a state of society extinct
nearly two thousand years ago.

Close beside us on the eastern side of the Forum is set the Chalcidicum, the large building
of the priestess Eumachia, one of the most gracious personalities of Pompeii with which the
modern world has become acquainted. It was this lady who generously presented this structure,
one of the handsomest and most solid of the public buildings of the city, to the fullers to
serve as their exchange, wherein goods might be exposed upon benches and tables for the convenience
alike of sellers and purchasers. “Priestess Eumachia,” remarks a modern critic, “has done the
thing well; no expense has been spared in the building and its decorations. The columns of
the portico are of white marble; the statues of Piety and Concord, works of art; and the flower-borders
along the panelled walls, prettily conceived and carefully executed. After so much plaster
and stucco, it is a relief to see something so solid and genuine. When a third-rate city apes
the capital, there must needs be a certain amount of sham. But at Pompeii it is all sham, or
next door to it. In the entire city are not more than half a dozen edifices whose columns are
of real marble, the bas-reliefs and cornices of anything more solid than stucco; and of these
half-dozen, the Exchange heads the list.”

We feel tolerably secure in assigning this fine building to the early years of the Emperor
Tiberius, and in naming the Emperor’s mother, Livia, as the divinity to whom it was dedicated.
The statue of Concord with the golden horn of plenty doubtless once adorned the large pedestal
which still stands in the eastern apse of the Exchange, but though the figure and emblem were
those of Concordia, the face bore certainly the features of Imperial Livia. Yet more interesting
than the various speculations as to the actual uses of this edifice and the different names
of the statues which once embellished its alcoves, is the circumstance that the marble portrait
of the foundress herself has been discovered. It is true that only a copy in plaster now occupies
the pedestal at the back of the apse where Eumachia’s statue once stood, for the original has
been removed for safety to Naples, but it is not difficult to call to mind the calm gentle
face of this Pompeian Lady Bountiful, and her graceful figure in its flowing robes. The existence
of this statue adds undoubtedly a touch of special human interest to the whole building, and
we find our minds excited by the brief inscription which still informs the curious that the
fullers of Pompeii erected this portrait in marble in grateful appreciation “to Eumachia, a
city-priestess, daughter of Lucius Eumachius.”

Outside the Chalcidicum, at the corner of the lane usually termed Via dell’ Abbondanza, is
to be seen a pathetic little memorial of the working life of the city: the fountain of Concordia
Augusta, the divinity of Eumachia’s noble building hard by. Dusty and heating is the business
of fulling cloth, and it generates thirst, so that it is but natural to find a fountain close
at hand, whereat the labourers could refresh their parched throats. With what eagerness must
the exhausted toilers during those long summers of centuries past have leaned forward to press
their human lips to the cool mouth of the sculptured goddess that ejected with pleasing gurgles
a volume of water into the basin below! That this fountain proved a boon to weary citizens
is evident enough, for the features of water-spouting Concordia are half worn away by thirsty
human kisses, and her suppliants’ hands have left deep smooth furrows in the stone-work of
the basin, whereon they were wont to support their bodies, so as to direct the cooling draught
into the dry and dusty gullet. In Italian cities to-day we can frequently observe some exhausted
labourer bend deftly downwards to snatch a drink of water from the mouth of some fantastic
figure in a public fountain. Who has not paused, for instance, beside Tacca’s famous bronze
boar in the Florentine market-place without noting an incident of this kind? If we ourselves
are too dainty to place our own aristocratic lips where our fellow-mortals have pressed theirs,
not so are the abstemious descendants of the ancient Romans, the Italians, whose minds remain
untroubled by any nasty-nice qualms of possible infection.

Here then is the setting of the picture, and we must ourselves endeavour to repeople the empty
space with the crowds of high and low that once collected here.

“It is high change, and the Forum is crowded. All Pompeii is here, and his wife. Patres conscripti,
inclined to corpulence, taking their constitutional, exquisites lazily sauntering up and down
the pavements; decurions discussing the affairs of the nation, and the last news from Rome;
city magnates fussing, merchants chaffering, clients petitioning, parasites fawning, soldiers
swaggering, and Belisarius begging at the gate.... It is a bright and animated scene. Beneath,
the crowded Forum, with its colonnades and statues, at one end a broad flight of steps leading
to the Temple of Jupiter, at the other a triumphal arch; on one side the Temple of Venus and
the Basilica; on the other the Macellum, the Temple of Mercury, the Chalcidicum; overhead the
deep blue sky. Mingled with the hum of many voices and the patter of feet on the travertine
pavement are the ringing sounds of the stonemasons’ chisels and hammers, for the Forum is undergoing
a complete restoration. Although fifteen years have elapsed since the city was last visited
by earthquake, the damage then done to the public buildings has not been entirely repaired.
First the Gods, then the people. The temples of Jupiter, Venus, and Mercury are completed,
but the Forum and Chalcidicum are still in the workmen’s hands.”(2)

With this fleeting glimpse at the public life of the city, let us now turn our attention to
its domestic arrangements. Of the many houses which have been excavated of recent years under
the truly admirable superintendence of Signor Fiorelli, none is better calculated to give us
a striking impression of the working details of an upper-class Roman household than the private
dwelling which is known equally under the two names of the Casa Nuova and the House of the
Vettii;—perhaps the former name has now ceased to own any significance, since the buildings
were laid bare as far back as the winter of 1894-5. An hour or two spent in a careful inspection
of this house and its contents is to most persons worth four times the same amount of time
occupied in aimless wandering amongst the hot glaring streets of the city, peeping into this
courtyard and that, and listening to the interminable tales of guide or custodian. If we study
the Casa Nuova intelligently, lovingly and minutely, it will not be long before we obtain a
tolerable grasp of Roman life and manners, which will prove of immense service and of genuine
delight. What then is it, the question will be asked, that makes the House of the Vettii so
valuable as an example of antique architecture and decoration, in preference to other mansions
which can boast an equal and often a greater distinction? The answer is simple enough: it is
because this particular group of buildings has been allowed to remain as far as practicable
in the exact condition wherein it was originally unearthed, when its various rooms and courts
were once more exposed to the light of day. For until the clearing of this “new house” a decade
or so ago, no proper opportunity had so far been afforded to the amateur of our own times of
judging for himself the interior of a Roman dwelling in full working order, and with all its
furniture, paintings, and utensils complete. Up to this, almost every object of value had been
removed at once for safety, every fresco even of importance had been cut bodily out of its
setting and placed in one of those immense halls on the ground floor of the Museum in Naples.
How well do we remember those gaunt chilly chambers, filled from pavement to ceiling with painted
fragments of all sizes, a medley of domestic subjects and of classical myths! Torn from the
walls they were specially executed to adorn, divorced from their proper scheme of surrounding
ornament, these wan dejected ghosts stare at us like faces out of a mist. The uninitiated cannot
find pleasure in them, for they have no pretention to be called works of art; on the contrary
they form an inherent part of a conventional system of house decoration. The classical student
can of course find many points of interest in the incidents portrayed, but all charm of local
environment is absent;—it is, in short, impossible to judge of Roman decoration from this collection
of crumbling, fading pieces of painted stucco. It would be as easy to imagine the effect of
a rose-bush in full bloom from the sight of a few withered rose-buds, pressed until every vestige
of colour had left their petals, as to understand the significance of antique domestic art
from the contents of the Museo Nazionale.

But here, in the House of the Vettii, the public was for the first time initiated into the
mysteries of true Roman life; here it was admitted to gaze upon the fruits of classical taste
and refinement, and to contrast them, favourably or unfavourably, with prevailing modern standards.
The Casa Nuova has been left as an object lesson, a complete museum in itself, wherein every
daily incident of Pompeian life, every domestic secret, reveal themselves to our inquisitive
eyes. Here in the roofless halls we can be taken from entrance to dining-hall, from atrium
to sleeping rooms, spying into the minutest detail of shape, size and colour, as though we
were seriously intending to rent the house for our own habitation. The last tenant has even
left his money-chest in his hall, his pots and pans in the kitchen, and as we inspect his utensils,
we wonder if they would suit our own requirements to-day. Of portable objects of value—plate,
jewels, statuettes of precious metals and the like—belonging to the late owner, there is certainly
no trace, for Signor Fiorelli’s labourers were not the first to break the deep silence of this
buried mansion. For it was the survivors of the stricken town, the citizens of Pompeii themselves,
who were the foremost pioneers to excavate, and they carried off every work of art they could
conveniently remove. Cutting from above into the deposit of ashes that filled the streets,
they managed to reach in course of time the level of the ground, after which they tunnelled
from room to room, from house to house, collecting every object they thought worth the trouble
of transporting. Perhaps the owners of the house, the Vettii themselves, presuming they escaped
in the general catastrophe, may have returned with skilled workmen to recover some of their
treasures; perhaps some “man of three letters”—the colloquial Roman term for thief (fur)—may
have forestalled the masters’ efforts—who knows? And at this distance of time, who cares?

The house once occupied by Aulus Vettius Restitutus and Aulus Vettius Corvina stands in a quiet
district not far from the Capuan Gate, and consequently at some distance from the Forum. Like
all Roman habitations it was essentially Oriental in its outward aspect, and must have resembled
closely any one of those mysterious dwellings of wealthy Arab citizens which we constantly
encounter in the native quarters of Algiers or Tunis. The gateway giving on the street was
wide, certainly, but it was well defended both by human and canine porters; its windows were
few and small, and were probably closely latticed like those of the nunneries which we sometimes
perceive overhead in the crowded streets of Naples. There must have been something austere,
even suspicious, in the external appearance of the Casa de’ Vettii, but snarling dog and grim
janitor have long since disappeared, and we pass unmolested through the atrium and thence into
the Great Peristyle, which is perhaps the most remarkable feature of this house. The peristyle,
as its name implies, is a Greek importation in a Roman city, and its use would have been scorned
by the old-fashioned citizens, such as the master of the “House of the Surgeon”; yet it was
in truth admirably suited to the character of Southern Italy, where it afforded shelter from
sun and wind, and its arcades protected from the rainfall. The peristyle of the Vettii, with
its gaudily tinted pillars of stucco, is highly ornate; perhaps it passes the limits of good
taste in certain points of colour and æsthetic decoration, yet the general effect is undoubtedly
pleasing to the eye. This courtyard is at once a lounge open to the sky; it is a garden; it
is an art-gallery; for the cheerful court of Greek domestic architecture had nothing in common
with its successor of the Middle Ages, the monastic cloister of religious meditation. Cannot
we imagine to ourselves the goodman of the house proudly leading his guests after a sumptuous
meal in the adjacent dining-room into the cool corridors of his peristyle, in order to point
out to them his statues and vases of bronze or porphyry, and to expatiate upon their value
or elegance of form? On such a festive occasion these great shallow basins of pure white marble
before us would be heaped high with fragrant pyramids of red and white roses, roses that were
perhaps plucked all dewy in the famous gardens of Paestum on the other side of Mons Gaurus.
For the flowering shrubs in the tiny pleasaunce itself are far too precious to be stripped
of their blossoms in so lavish a manner, and perhaps if Vettius be anything of an amateur gardener,
he may comment to his visitors upon the rare plants that fill his diminutive flower-beds. Careful
and reverent hands have restored the little garden as near as possible to its pristine plan
and appearance. There are still standing the two bronze statues of urchins holding in their
chubby arms ducks from whose bills once gushed the limpid water, making a soothing sound amidst
the alleys of the peristyle; corroded and injured they certainly appear, yet here they hold
their original positions in Vettius’ domain long after temple and tower have fallen to the
ground. The marble chairs and tripod tables likewise remain, and around them still thrive the
very plants that the servants of the house were wont to tend in the days of Titus. For, by
a rare chance, we find depicted on the walls of the excavated house the actual flowers and
herbs that were popular during Vettius’ lifetime, and these have been replanted by modern hands
in the garden of the peristyle. There are clumps of papyrus, the strange mop-headed rush from
the banks of the Nile, introduced into Italy as a botanical novelty after the conquest of Egypt;
there are rose-bushes, of course; and also masses of shining ivy trained in the ancient Roman
manner upon a cage of wicker-work fixed into the soil. As we watch the verdure-clad sunlit
space there descends, delicately fluttering, one of those splendid pale yellow brimstone butterflies
of the South with flame-coloured blushes on its wings, and after some moments of graceful hesitation,
this new visitor settles upon the purple head of an iris bloom. With its vivid colouring and
its quick movements the butterfly brings an atmosphere of life into the courtyard that was
hitherto lacking. Its appearance too suggests the famous allegory, the unsolved riddle of human
existence which so puzzled the divine Plato and the ancient philosophers of Athens and Syracuse.
Here are we, the living men of to-day, watching the corpse of a departed world upon which the
mystic symbol of Psyche has just alighted. Tempus breve est is the simple little truism that
rises to our reflecting minds. Eighteen centuries between the Vettii and ourselves! They are
gone like a flash, and we are amazed to note how little has our nature altered either for the
better or the worse within that space of time, long enough if we measure its limit by the standard
of history, trivial if we reckon it by the progress made in human ethics and human understanding.
Surely there are lessons to be learned in the silent city; Pompeii, we realize, is not merely
a heap of antique dross whence we can pick up precious grains of knowledge, but it is an oracle
in itself, which, if properly consulted, will give us plain answers to our modern speculations,
and will possibly reprove us for our conceited assumption of omniscience.

Still brilliant in their strong prevailing tints of black, yellow and vermilion are the decorative
schemes which make a visit to the house of the Vettii of such supreme importance for those
who wish to understand fully the artistic tastes of the Romans, and also their artistic limitations.
If the contents of the Museum seem colourless and cold, and prove unsatisfying and disappointing,
here the eye of the artist can feast upon the classical ornamentation which remains fairly
fresh in spite of a dozen years of exposure to daylight. For this province of art is peculiarly
associated with the opening years of the Empire, and Pompeii is naturally the chief place for
its study, and in Pompeii the untouched Casa Nuova is all important for the student. According
to Pliny, the inventor of this pleasing style of decoration was a certain Ludius, who flourished
in the reign of Augustus, and first persuaded the Romans to embellish their flat wall-surfaces
with designs of “villas and halls, artificial gardens, hedges, woods, hills, water basins,
tombs, rivers, shores, in as great a variety as could be desired; figures sitting at ease,
mariners, and those who, riding upon donkeys or in waggons, look after their farms; fishermen,
snarers of birds, hunters and vine-dressers; also swampy passages before beautiful villas,
and women borne by men who stagger under their burdens, and other witty things of this nature;
finally, views of sea-ports, everything charming and suitable”:—a fairly long and comprehensive
list of subjects, truly, from which a patron might pick and choose, or an artist might execute!

Although the great architect Vitruvius strongly denounced this new striving after scenic effect
and characterized it as petty and false, yet none can deny that these cheerful scenes with
their bright colours and their agreeable if trivial subjects were singularly well adapted to
improve the appearance of the bare narrow rooms, the meagre proportions of which seem to us
absolutely incompatible with plain comfort, to say nothing of luxury. Space may be increased,
so far as the eye is concerned, by an architectural or landscape painting ingeniously conceived,
and thus the restricted rooms seem to obtain by means of this new system of decoration a wider
expansion, and with it an increased sense of ease and lightness. The invention of Ludius became
at once the fashion, the rage; and all Rome began to cover the walls of its narrow chambers
with these novel designs, which had already found favour in Imperial circles. Campania, where
the old Greek love for polychrome still lingered, was not slow in imitating the new taste of
the Capital, so that Pompeii bears undoubted testimony to the popularity of this revolution
in artistic ideas, which substituted a lighter freer method for the old conventional severity
of treatment. Experts profess to trace—and none will endeavour to gainsay them—a marked difference
between the frescoes executed before the earthquake of 63 and those undertaken subsequent to
that date. The wall paintings of the first group, carried out when the art was comparatively
novel, are superior in harmony of colour, in choice of themes and in technical finish to those
which belong to the latter period, the sixteen years that intervened between the earthquake
and the eruption of Vesuvius. From this circumstance it has been inferred, not without reason,
that this particular house must have passed some time before the year 63 out of the possession
of people of good taste into the hands of vulgarians, ignorant of the fundamental principles
of art and anxious only to obtain what was startling and garish. As freedmen, the two Vettii
would naturally belong to a class which was not remarkable for culture; nevertheless, they
seem to have had the good sense to leave intact some of their predecessor’s most cherished
works of decoration, and for this exhibition of restraint we must feel duly grateful towards
our dead-and-gone hosts, the maligned Vettii.

But it is not only for purposes of examining Roman internal decoration in situ that this art
gallery of the Casa Nuova is available. Below the painted panels of the dining-room runs a
long string of ornament, whereon are represented Cupids and Psyches engaged in the various
occupations of Pompeian daily life. Full of dainty grace and of lively expression, these little
winged figures initiate us into a number of the trades and customs of the ancients. For they
are made to appear before us as goldsmiths, vine-dressers, makers and sellers of olive oil,
dealers in wine, fullers of cloth, and as partakers in a dozen other scenes of town or country
life. Where learned antiquaries had hitherto doubted and disputed, the discovery of the paintings
of these celestial little mechanics and merchants helped to solve many a difficulty, for the
secret of half the arts and crafts of Pompeii is revealed to us in this playful guise. Nor
are the designs themselves contemptible from an artistic point of view; look how intent, for
example, is the pose of the tiny jeweller working with a graver’s tool upon the gold vessel
before him; how steadily he bears himself at a task which requires at once strength of hand
and delicacy of workmanship. Look again at the nervous pose of the pretty elf who is gingerly
pouring wine out of a huge amphora, which he holds in his arms, into a shallow tasting cup
offered by a brother Cupid. How thoroughly must the unknown artist have enjoyed the task of
painting this frieze! How unfettered his fancy, as his brush glided smoothly and deftly over
the carefully prepared wall-surface! Excellent, no doubt, he thought his work at the time of
execution, but even the most conceited of Campanian artists could hardly have dreamed that
these creations of his brush would still at the end of two thousand years be admired, commented
upon and even reproduced in thousands, by a process he never dreamed of, for the benefit of
citizens of nations as yet unborn or unforeseen.

As the spring evening softly steals over the city and the shadows of the colonnades lengthen,
let us leave the silent halls and chambers of the Casa dei Vettii and turn our footsteps westward;
and issuing out of the Gate of Herculaneum, let us traverse the famous Street of Tombs, that
extends along the road leading to the sister buried city. In ancient times this was the Via
Domitiana, a branch road of the Appian Way, and it formed the most frequented entrance into
Pompeii. To Roman ideas, therefore, it was but natural that tombs should be erected alongside
its borders, whilst the spirits of the passing and repassing crowds were in no wise affected
by the memorials of death attending their exits and entrances. And with the surging human tide
that was ever flowing in this thoroughfare the funeral processions must constantly have mingled,
the wailing of the hired mourners rising sharply above the din of harsh voices, the creaking
of clumsy wooden wheels and the braying of the heavily laden asses. Now over all reigns a decorous
silence, such as we moderns deem fitting for a cemetery; only the hum of insects breaks the
deep quiet of the atmosphere, nor are there any living creatures visible at this late hour
save the bats which flit restlessly in and out of the weed-grown piles of brick or stone that
once were stately monuments of wealth or piety. Above our heads the tall sombre cypresses shoot
upward like gigantic spear-heads into the crystal-clear air, pointing heavenward like our own
church spires in a rural English landscape. This Street of the Dead in the City of the Dead
is in truth a solemn and a soothing spot; nor can we find its precincts melancholy, when we
stand in the midst of such glorious scenery. For Monte Sant’ Angelo towers to our left against
the mellow evening sky, flecked with lines of peach-blossom cloud, whilst in front of us the
dark form of Capri seems to float in a golden haze between firmament and ocean. Behind us the
dark mass of the Mountain with its breath of ascending smoke seems like an eternal funeral
pyre in honour of the Dead, who were spared the horrors of that fearful disaster which overwhelmed
the living. Upon the broken tombs and altars the light from the setting sun falls with warm
cheerful radiance, flushing stone and brick-work with a ruddy glow like jasper; whilst, high
in the heavens above the cypress tops, the crescent moon prepares to turn to gold from silver.

Beati sunt mortui: here rest, we know, the priestess Mammia, the decemvir Aricius, Libella
the aedile, and a host of other citizens with whose names the student or the lover of Pompeii
is familiar. How many a time has this line of roadway rung with the sound of the last sad appeal,
the thrice repeated valediction: “Vale, vale, vale! farewell until the day when Nature will
allow us to follow thee!” How often have the wooden pyres flung up in these precincts their
clouds of perfumed smoke into the clear air, now redolent with the aroma of yellow broom, of
dewy thyme and of sweet marigolds! Amid chilly dews, to the sound of the evening bell from
the distant church of Santa Maria di Pompeii, we hasten in the growing darkness from the Street
of the Tombs towards our modest inn outside the Marine Gate, anticipating with delight a ramble
in the city in the freshness of the coming morning.

                                CHAPTER IV

                   VESUVIUS: THE STORY OF THE MOUNTAIN

The first appearance of Vesuvius, whether viewed from the deck of a steamer entering the Bay
of Naples or espied from the window of a railway carriage on the main line running southward
from Rome, makes an impression that will linger for ever in the memory. It is open to argument
which is the more striking of the two experiences: the Mountain rising proudly from the deep
blue waters into the paler shade of the upper air, or its graceful broken contour seen from
the landward side to the north across the green fertile plains of the Campagna Felice. From
a long acquaintance with both ways of approaching Naples, we are inclined to prefer the latter
view. Travelling in an express train from Rome we find ourselves whirled suddenly, by magic
as it were, into the atmosphere of the South, when with the sight of the domes and towers of
Capua, the ancient capital of Campania the Prosperous, we first note the presence of orange
trees and hedges of aloe, of white lupin crops and clumps of prickly pear, and we feel we are
nearing Naples with “its burning mountain and its tideless sea,” so that we eagerly strain
our eyes in a southerly direction to catch our first glimpse of Vesuvius, with whose shape
and history we have been so familiar since our childhood’s days. At length we perceive its
double summit, with smoke tranquilly issuing from the cone and obscuring the clarity of the
air, and as we hurry forward towards our destination, through the plains studded with elm-trees
festooned with vines, we have the satisfaction of observing its form grow larger and more distinct
in outline.

On our arrival at Naples, in course of time we grow more intimately acquainted with the peculiar
attractions of “the Mountain,” as the Neapolitans always designate their treacherous but fascinating
neighbour, of whose near existence they have every reason to be proud, for certainly Vesuvius,
though barely as lofty as Ben Nevis, is to us westerns the most famous mountain upon earth.
Regarding Vesuvius both from the land and the sea, we note that it rises in solitary majesty
from an extended base some thirty miles in circumference, and that it sweeps upwards in graceful
curving lines until at a distance of about 3000 feet from sea level its summit is cleft into
two peaks; that to the north being a rocky ridge which catches our eye as we gaze eastward
from the heights of Sant’ Elmo or the Corso at Naples, the other point being the actual cone
of the volcano itself. The upper part of the Mountain has in fact two aspects; in other words,
Vesuvius is double, being composed of the ridge of Monte Somma to the north, 3760 feet in height,
which is pre-historic; and the ever-shifting modern dome of Vesuvius to the south, which is
about 4000 feet high. We say “about” purposely, for Vesuvius proper sometimes over-tops, sometimes
equals, and sometimes even crouches under its immovable sister-peak, according to the effect
produced by volcanic action. Monte Somma, which is one of the everlasting hills, is the parent,
and Vesuvius is the child, born but yesterday from a geological point of view, for it is not
so old as the Christian era;—“it is a variable heap thrown up from time to time, and again,
not seldom, by a greater effort of the same force, tossed away into the air, and scattered
in clouds of dust over far-away countries. Thus it has happened often, in the course of these
variations of energy, that Vesuvius has risen to a conical height exceeding that of Somma by
500 or 600 feet, and again, the top has been truncated to a level as low as Somma, or even
as much below that mountain as we now behold it above.”(3)

To understand the story of the Mountain, therefore, it is necessary for us to travel back in
retrospect to ancient Roman days. In the first place, however, one word as to its present name
that we use to-day, for all are familiar with Vesuvius, but comparatively few, until they visit
Naples, have heard mention made of Monte Somma. The name of Vesuvius, then, though strictly
applicable only to the volcanic and modern portion of the Mountain, is not a recent appellation;
on the contrary, it is probably of far more ancient origin than Mons Summanus by which the
whole was known to the Romans. The point is by no means unimportant, for etymologists derive
Vesuvius from the Syriac “Vo Seevev, the abode of flame,” thereby proving to us that whatever
opinions may have been held as to the nature of the Mountain in the century preceding the Christian
era, its volcanic nature must have been perfectly well understood by those who gave it this
suggestive title in a more remote age. But the secret locked up in Mons Summanus was not altogether
unsuspected by the Roman scientists. Strabo, the geographer, writing about thirty years before
the birth of Christ, made a careful examination of the crest of Mons Summanus, then a saucer-shaped
hollow surrounded by a steep rocky edge and occupied by a flat plain covered with cinders and
void of grass, although the flanks of the Mountain were extraordinarily fertile. From what
he saw during his visit, Strabo conjectured the Mountain to be an extinct volcano, in which
surmise he was destined to be proved partly in the right and partly in the wrong; whilst Vitruvius,
the famous architect of the Emperor Augustus, “who found Rome of brick and left it of marble,”
as well as Tacitus the historian, shared the same opinion. About a century and a half before
the first recorded eruption in 79, Mons Summanus figures prominently in Roman history as the
scene of a curious incident during the Servile War, so that in the pages of the old chronicler
Florus we obtain an interesting description—especially interesting because it was not given
for scientific purposes—of the condition of the mountain top at that period. The brave gladiator
Spartacus and his intrepid band of revolted slaves, seeking a place of safety from the pursuing
Roman legions, not very wisely selected the top of this isolated peak, which, although affording
a good position of defence and possessing a wide outlook over the Campanian plain, had only
one narrow passage in its rocky rim to serve as entrance or outlet. Followed hither by the
Roman forces and caught like rats in a trap, Spartacus and his men were doomed either to be
reduced by starvation, or else to run the gauntlet of the sole narrow exit, which the Senate’s
commander, Clodius Glabrus, was already guarding. The story of Spartacus’ escape from his terrible
dilemma is told in the history of Florus, and repeated with further details by Plutarch in
his Life of Crassus. We can see the Mountain in the last years of the Roman Republic before
us, with its truncated cone encircled by a low rampart of rock half hidden by wild vine, ivy,
eglantine, honeysuckle and all the creeping plants whose tough trailing stems enabled the besieged
gladiators to effect their escape from the snare into which they had unwittingly fallen. We
can understand from this event how utterly remote was the idea of any upheaval of nature to
the dwellers on these shores, whose ancestors remembered the crest of the mountain as the scene
of a military operation.

The first warning of a coming eruption after unnumbered centuries of quiet was given by a series
of earthquakes which did an immense amount of damage at Herculaneum and Pompeii; yet in a district
which had from time immemorial been subject to similar convulsions of nature, the shocks, though
unusually distressing and destructive to life and property, were evidently unconnected in the
popular mind with their true cause: the reawakening to life of the mountain overhead. The mischief
done by the earthquakes was accordingly repaired as quickly as possible, and the normal course
of life was resumed until the terrific and wholly unexpected outbreak of August 24th 79, during
the reign of the Emperor Titus. Of this, the first recorded eruption of Vesuvius, we are exceptionally
fortunate in possessing the testimony of a credible eye-witness, who was no less a personage
than Caius Plinius Caecilius Secundus, better known to the modern world as Pliny the Younger,
who wrote two lengthy letters to Tacitus on the subject of this event, the first describing
the fate of his uncle, the Elder Pliny, most eminent of Roman naturalists, who perished during
this period of terror; and the second containing a more detailed account of the eruption itself.
For it so happened—luckily for posterity—that at the time of this sudden outburst of Mons Summanus,
the Elder Pliny was in command of the Roman fleet at Misenum on the Bay of Naples, where his
young nephew (who was also his adopted son) was living with his mother in a villa. Meanwhile
the Younger Pliny, who had declined to accompany his uncle’s expedition on the plea of having
to pursue the studies with which as a hard-working youth of seventeen he was evidently engrossed,
became alarmed during the night for the Elder Pliny’s safety. His own and his mother’s terrible
experiences are vividly portrayed in the second letter, which, at the historian’s special request,
the Younger Pliny wrote to Tacitus in later years.

“When my uncle had started, I spent such time as was left on my studies—it was on their account,
indeed, that I had stopped behind. Then followed the bath, dinner and sleep, this last disturbed
and brief. There had been noticed for many days before a trembling of the earth, which had
caused, however, but little fear, because it is not unusual in Campania. But that night it
was so violent, that one thought everything was being not merely moved, but absolutely overturned.
My mother rushed into my chamber; I was in the act of rising, with the same intention of awaking
her, should she have been asleep. And now—I do not know whether to call it courage or folly,
for I was but in my eighteenth year—I called for a volume of Livy, read it as if I were perfectly
at leisure, and even continued to make some extracts which I had begun. Just then arrived a
friend of my uncle, who had lately come to him from Spain; when he saw that we were sitting
down—that I was even reading—he rebuked my mother for her patience, and me for my blindness
to the danger. Still I bent myself as industriously as ever over my book. It was now seven
o’clock in the morning, but the daylight was still faint and doubtful. The surrounding buildings
were now so shattered, that in the place where we were, which though open was small, the danger
that they might fall on us was imminent and unmistakable. So we at last determined to quit
the town. A panic-stricken crowd followed us.... We saw the sea retire into itself, seeming,
as it were, to be driven back by the trembling movement of the earth. The shore had distinctly
advanced, and many marine animals were left high and dry upon the sands. It had already surrounded
and concealed the island of Capreae, and had made invisible the promontory of Misenum. My mother
besought, urged, even commanded me to fly as best I could; ‘I might do so,’ she said, ‘for
I was young; she, from age and corpulence, could move but slowly, but would be content to die,
if she did not bring death upon me.’ I replied that I would not seek safety except in her company;
I clasped her hand and compelled her to go with me. She reluctantly obeyed, but continually
reproached herself for delaying me. Ashes now began to fall—still, however, in small quantities.
I looked behind me; a dense dark mist seemed to be following us, spreading itself over the
country like a cloud. ‘Let us turn out of the way,’ I said, ‘whilst we can still see, for fear
that, should we fall in the road, we should be trodden under foot in the darkness by the throngs
that accompany us.’ We had scarcely sat down when night was upon us,—not such as we have seen
when there is no moon, or when the sky is cloudy, but such as there is in some closed room
where the lights are extinguished. You might hear the shrieks of women, the monotonous wailing
of children, the shouts of men. Many were raising their voices, and seeking to recognise by
the voices that replied, parents, children, husbands or wives. Some were loudly lamenting their
own fate, others the fate of those dear to them. Some even prayed for death, in their fear
of what they prayed for. Many lifted their hands in prayer to the gods; more were convinced
that there were now no gods at all, and that the final endless night of which we have heard
had come upon the world.... It now grew somewhat light again; we felt sure that this was not
the light of day, but a proof that fire was approaching us. Fire there was, but it stopped
at a considerable distance from us; then came darkness again, and a thick, heavy fall of ashes.
Again and again we stood up and shook them off; otherwise, we should have been covered by them,
and even crushed by the weight. At last the black mist I had spoken of seemed to shade off
into smoke or cloud, and broke away. Then came genuine daylight, and the sun shone out with
a lurid light, such as it is wont to have in an eclipse. Our eyes, which had not yet recovered
from the effects of fear, saw everything changed, everything covered deep with ashes as if
with snow. We returned to Misenum, and after refreshing ourselves as best we could, spent a
night of anxiety in mingled hope and fear. Fear, however, was still the stronger feeling; for
the trembling of the earth continued, while many frenzied persons, with their terrific predictions,
gave an exaggeration that was even ludicrous to the calamities of themselves and of their friends.
Even then, in spite of all the perils which we had experienced, and which we still expected,
we had not a thought of going away till we could hear news of my uncle.”(4)

As to the fate of the Elder Pliny, it seems that the old man had been obliged together with
his friends and servants to fly from the villa at Stabiae where he was resting. The sea being
too agitated to allow of an embarkation, the fugitives turned their steps towards the slopes
of Mons Gaurus, the present Monte Sant’ Angelo, with pillows bound over their heads to serve
as protection against the showers of hot cinders that were falling thickly on all sides. At
length the famous old writer, who was somewhat plethoric and unwieldy, sank exhausted to the
ground, never to rise again, and shortly expired in an attack of heart failure, induced by
the unusual excitement and fatigue he had lately been called upon to endure. At any rate, it
appears fairly certain that the Elder Pliny did not perish, as is still sometimes asserted,
by the direct effects of the eruption, but rather through an ordinary collapse of nature—syncope,
perhaps. Three days later his body was found lying not far from Stabiae by his grief-stricken
nephew, who describes his uncle’s corpse as looking “more like that of a sleeping than of a
dead man.”

This then was the first, as it was also the most violent, of the many outbreaks of Vesuvius
which our own age has witnessed, and with this eruption of 79 in the reign of Titus, the Mountain,
as we have already said, greatly altered its shape. More than half the rim of the ancient crater
that had enclosed Spartacus and his men less than two hundred years before had been torn away
and destroyed, its remaining portion on the landward side retaining the old name of Mons Summanus.
Between this remnant of the old wall of the crater and the scene of wreckage on the southern
face of the Mountain, there now appeared the great cleft, the horse-shoe shaped valley called
the Atrio del Cavallo, which separates the two peaks of the whole summit. A fragment only of
the original crater, known as the Pedimentina, still remains on the seaward side above Torre
del Greco. From that terrible day, so vividly described by the Younger Pliny, to our own times,
a period stretching over 1800 years, a vast number of eruptions, great and small, have been
enumerated, for owing to the nearness of Vesuvius to one of the largest cities in Europe, every
incident connected with its activity has been carefully noted, at least since the time of the
Renaissance. Out of the many upheavals we propose to select the eruptions of 1631 and 1779,
as being amongst the most significant.

Ever since an outburst in the year 1500, the Mountain appears to have lapsed into a remarkable
condition of quietude, even of apparent extinction, for over a century and a quarter, during
which period, it may be remarked, the Sicilian volcano of Etna was unusually active. Once more
the summit of Vesuvius was beginning to assume the form it had borne in the days previous to
the overthrow of Pompeii; the riven crater was becoming filled with dense undergrowth and even
with forest trees, amidst which wild boar made their lairs and were occasionally hunted. The
learned Abate Giulio Braccini, whose account of the eruption of 1631 is the most graphic and
accurate we possess, explored the crater shortly before the outbreak of the volcano, but found
little to suggest any idea of an approaching convulsion. He reckoned the deep depression occupying
the crest of the mountain to be about five miles in circumference, and to take about a thousand
paces of walking so as to reach the lowest point within its area. He remarked abundance of
brushwood on its sides, and observed cattle grazing peacefully upon the open grassy patches
in the midst of the over-grown space. A deep crack, however, ran from end to end of the whole
crater, which allowed persons so minded to descend amidst rocks and boulders to a large plain
below the surface, whereon Braccini found three pools of hot steamy water, of a saline and
sulphureous taste. Such was the tranquil aspect of the Mountain as surveyed by the Abate Braccini
in the first half of the seventeenth century; to men of science signs of latent energy were
certainly not wanting, yet to the ignorant, careless peasants of the hill-side and the scarcely
less ignorant dwellers of the towns on the seashore, the state of repose in which the Mountain
had continued for four or five generations suggested no fears or suspicions. Tilling of vineyards,
building of new houses, sinking of wells, went on apace as cheerfully as though an eruption
were an impossibility, till certain unmistakable portents that occurred towards the close of
the year 1631 roughly dissipated this spell of fancied security. Earthquakes, more or less
severe, began at this time to be felt along the whole of the volcanic line stretching from
Ischia to the eastern slopes of Vesuvius; the plain within the crater of the Mountain began
to heave and rise in an alarming fashion, and the water in all the local wells sank mysteriously
below ground. The signs of some impending disaster coming from the heights above were too strongly
marked to be lightly disregarded; the idea of a volcanic convulsion, though by this time a
long-distant and vague memory, became so terrifying to the dwellers on the mountain’s flanks
and in Torre del Greco, Resina and the various towns that line the seaward base of the Mountain,
that the majority of the people removed themselves and their property with all speed to places
of safety. Nevertheless, despite the warnings given by Nature and also by men of science and
the royal officials, many remained behind in their houses, and in consequence perished, to
the immense number, it is surmised, of 18,000. On the morning of Wednesday, December 16th,
the long threatened eruption burst forth in earnest upon an expectant world. Amidst crashes
like prolonged volleys of artillery the people of Naples and the surrounding district beheld
the terrible pine-tree of smoke and ashes, described centuries ago by Pliny, ascend from the
south-western side of the summit of the Mountain, veiling the sky for miles around, and so
charged with electricity, that many were even killed by the ferilli, or lightning flashes,
that darted from the smoking mass. The spectacle of the ominous pine-tree was at once followed
by a terrific rumbling and an ejection of lava, which after flowing down the southern flank
in several streams finally reached the sea, making the waters hiss and boil at the moment of
contact. Slowly but surely these relentless red-hot rivers of lava crept like serpents along
the hill-side, destroying vineyard and garden, cottage and chapel, on their downward path.
Resina shared the fate of its ancient forerunner Herculaneum, whilst Torre del Greco and Portici
suffered severely, as we can see to-day by noting the great masses of lava flung on to the
strand at various points. To add to the universal confusion of Nature, the sea, which had now
become extraordinarily tempestuous, probably owing to some submarine earthquake-shock, suddenly
retreated half a mile from the coast, and then as suddenly returned in a tidal wave more than
a hundred feet beyond its normal limits. Such were the main features of the second great eruption
of Vesuvius, wherein the ashes ejected by the Mountain were wafted by the wind beyond the Adriatic,
to the Greek islands and even to Constantinople itself.

From this date onward the Mountain became very active in contrast with its previous condition
of lethargy, and throughout the whole of the eighteenth century there were frequent eruptions,
many of them on a vast scale. All these outbursts have been carefully recorded and commented
upon, for naturally the scientists of a great city like Naples were intensely interested in
the passing phases of their own volcano. During the latter half of this century all the phenomena
have been described for us by Sir William Hamilton, British ambassador at the Court of the
Two Sicilies, the versatile diplomatist who eventually married the beautiful but frail Emma
Hart. During his long period of residence in Naples, Sir William made no fewer than fifty-eight
explorations of the crater alone, besides carefully studying every peculiarity visible upon
the sides of the Mountain. He was, of course, a close observer of the great eruptions of 1766-7,
and also of the still greater convulsion of 1779, which, strangely enough, occurred on the
seventeenth centenary of the awakening of the Mountain from its pre-historic slumbers. On this
occasion, Hamilton, accompanied by a Mr Bowdler of Bath, had the temerity to track the streams
of flowing lava to their hidden source by walking over the rough unyielding crust of stones
and earth that had formed upon the surface of the molten stream, as it slowly trickled down
hill at the rate of about a mile an hour. The adventurous pair of Englishmen were successful
in their quest, and Sir William thus describes the fountain-head of the fiery streams that
he found a quarter of a mile distant from the top of the cone.

“The liquid and red-hot matter bubbled up violently, with a hissing and crackling noise, like
that which attends the playing off of an artificial firework; and by the continued splashing
up of the vitrified matter, a kind of arch, or dome, was formed over the crevice from whence
the lava issued; it was cracked in many parts, and appeared red-hot within, like a heated oven.
This hollowed hillock might be about fifteen feet high, and the lava that ran from under it
was received into a regular channel, raised upon a sort of wall of scoriae and cinders, almost
perpendicularly, of about a height of eight or ten feet, resembling much an ancient aqueduct.”

Some days later, at midnight on August 7th, a veritable fountain of red fire shot up from the
crest of Vesuvius, illuminating all the surrounding country; and on the following night a still
more marvellous sheet of flame appeared, hanging like a fiery veil between heaven and earth,
and reaching to a height (so Sir William Hamilton guessed) of about 10,000 feet above the summit,
affording a wonderfully grand but terrible spectacle. This great curtain of fiery particles,
accompanied by inky black clouds from which were darting continual flashes of lightning, was
reflected clearly on the smooth surface of the Bay, delighting the Court and the scientific
world of Naples, but inspiring, as may well be imagined, the mass of superstitious inhabitants
with the direst alarm. The theatres were closed and the churches were opened; above the rumblings
and explosions of the agonised volcano could be heard the tolling of the bells. Maddened by
terror, the Neapolitan mob rushed to the Archbishop’s palace to demand the immediate production
of the holy relics of St Januarius, the protector of the city, and on this request being refused,
set fire to the entrance gates, a forcible argument that soon persuaded his Eminence of the
propriety of the people’s demand. Thereupon the head of the Saint, enclosed in its case of
solid silver, was accordingly borne in solemn procession with wailing and repentant crowds
behind it to an improvised shrine, hung with garlands, on the Ponte della Maddalena, at the
extreme eastern boundary of the city. Nor was the confidence reposed by the Neapolitans in
their patron Saint misplaced, for except from the stifling smells and the dense rain of ashes,
the terror-stricken capital suffered not a whit, whilst the general alarm inspired its inhabitants
with a revival of religious fervour which was by no means insalutary. As usual, the old cynical
proverb was once more justified:—Napoli fa gli peccati, e la Torre gli paga, for of course
poor Torre del Greco was grievously affected by the lava streams. In this case, however, even
Torre del Greco and Resina did not fare so badly as did the towns on the northern slopes of
Monte Somma, a district which is of course perfectly immune from lava inundations owing to
the protecting rocky ridge of the Atrio del Cavallo. But it seems that the great veil of clouds
and fire, extending some thousands of feet from the crest of the mountain to the heavens above,
was swayed by a chance current of air, so that its component red-hot dust, ashes and stones
were emptied in one fatal shower upon the northern flank of the Mountain. Whole villages were
ruined, hundreds of acres of vines and crops were scorched and burned; the smiling peaceful
hillside was in a few minutes converted into a parched wilderness. Ottajano, a large town of
some 12,000 inhabitants, was the place most seriously injured by this wholly unexpected rain
of destruction, for a tempestuous fall of red-hot stones, some of immense size, and a shower
of ashes killed hundreds of the terrified and suffocating citizens, and blocked up the streets
with smoking debris to a depth of four feet.

Of the recent eruptions of Vesuvius, which have been pretty frequent during the latter half
of last century, that of April 1872, so carefully recorded by Professor Palmieri, who in spite
of imminent danger never abandoned his post in the Observatory, is the most notable. It is
remembered also owing to the catastrophe whereby some twenty persons out of a large crowd of
strangers, who had imprudently ascended to the Atrio del Cavallo to get a closer view of the
phenomenon, were suddenly caught by the lava stream and enfolded in its burning clutches. For
if ignorance and superstition seem to make the poor fisherman or peasant unduly alarmed on
such occasions, curiosity and self-confidence are sometimes apt to lead the educated or scientific
into unnecessary peril. Naples itself was once more alarmed in 1872, so that the relics of
St Januarius at the furious demand of the populace were again brought forth in solemn procession,
and exposed towards the face of the Mountain on the Ponte della Maddalena. Thousands of quaking
mortals gathered near this spot, joining in the chanting of the priests and watching with pallid
anxious faces the fiery currents of lava slowly trickling down the south-western flank of Vesuvius
towards the city itself. A certain number of attendants meanwhile were engaged in perpetually
brushing away from the image of the Saint, from his improvised altar, and from its votive garlands
the ever-accumulating mantle of grey dust, and it is scarcely to be wondered at that a certain
cool-headed Neapolitan artist, Il Vaccaro, should all this time have been busily engaged in
painting so characteristic and highly picturesque a scene. Within the churches, and particularly
in St Januarius’ own cathedral, enormous crowds of hysterical men and women had collected,
loudly bewailing their past sins and imploring the Divine mercy, for

      “E belle son le supplice
  Pompe di penitenza, in alto lutto.”

Again the historic palladium proved effectual, and the city, that was never for a moment in
danger, was once more saved! Naples received no damage beyond a temporary panic and a heavy
fall of ashes, which covered every street and flat surface within the town to a depth of some
inches and which it took many days of enforced labour to remove. Again it was the poor confiding
vine-dressers and tillers of the Vesuvian soil who suffered in this upheaval, for though the
loss of life was very slight indeed, yet numerous houses, fields and vineyards were totally
destroyed and many more were injured. Truly it is a maxim well proven by time:—Napoli fa gli
peccati, e Torre gli paga.

Such, told baldly and briefly, is the history of the Mountain, which forms the most conspicuous
feature of the Bay of Naples and dominates one of the fairest and most populous districts on
the face of the globe. But it does not take long to make visitors to the Neapolitan shore understand
the mysterious charm, not unmixed with awe, and the all-pervading influence of Vesuvius. Go
where we will within the circuit of the Bay of Naples and even outside it, we are never out
of sight of the obtruding Mountain and its smoky wreath. We begin to feel that the Mountain
is an animated thing, that the destiny of the Parthenopean shore is locked up in the breast
of the Demon who has his dwelling within its red-hot caverns. So sudden are the actions, and
so capricious the moods of this Monster of the Burning Mountain, that no one can tell the day,
or even the hour, wherein he will give us an exhibition of his fiery temper, though, it is
true, in the case of violent eruptions he is kind enough to afford timely warning by means
of a succession of earthquakes and other signals almost equally alarming. His Majesty’s presence
is felt everywhere; each morning as we open our window upon the dazzling waters of the Bay,
we note with relief his tranquil aspect; each night, ere we retire to sleep, we find ourselves
inevitably drawn to watch the glare thrown by the molten lava within the crater upon the thick
vapour overhead. The nightly expectation of this aerial bonfire possesses an extraordinary
fascination for the stranger. Some times the lurid glare is continuous; at other times there
are long intervals of waiting, and even then the reflected light is very faint, a mere speck
of reddish glow in the surrounding blackness, gone in the twinkling of an eye. But, strangely
enough, one grows to understand the Mountain better from a distance and by watching its moods
from afar, like the Neapolitans themselves, who never ascend to probe its mysteries, except
a few vulgar guides and touts who batten on the curiosity of the foreigner.

On clear windless days the intermittent clouds of vapour sent up from the crater assume the
most fantastic shapes—trees, ships, men, birds, animals—ever changing like the forms of Proteus.
It would seem as if the Spirit of the Mountain were idly amusing himself, like a child blowing
bubbles, or a vendor at a fair-stall carving out little figures of gingerbread to tickle the
fancy of country boys and girls. The clouds so formed sometimes cause amusement by their uncanny
shapes, but not unfrequently they inspire alarm. The superstitious peasant of the Paduli, looking
up suddenly from his work amidst the early peas or tomatoes, beholds against the blue sky a
vague nebulous form that to his untutored mind suggests a gigantic crucifix upheld in mid-air
above the Mountain, and he crosses himself devoutly ere he bends down to earth once more to
his work in the rich dark soil. “Such stuff as dreams are made of” appear in truth the weird
phantoms that the sly Demon of Vesuvius flings up into the pure aether, and if credulous mankind
likes to draw inferences for good or bad from these unsubstantial creations of his fancy, he
laughs to himself with a hollow reverberating sound. It must, however, have been in the true
spirit of prophecy on the occasion of King Manfred’s birth, that the genius of the Mountain
despatched two cloud-forms into the sky (so the unabashed old chroniclers gravely relate),
one having the appearance of a warrior armed cap-à-pie, and the other that of a fully vested
priest. The affrighted gazers below, struck with the strange phenomenon, beheld the two figures
sway towards each other and finally become locked together in deadly aerial combat, until all
resemblance to human shape had vanished from the pair. Then, after an interval of time, men
perceived the cloudy mass once more assume a mortal shape, and a huge towering priest with
flowing robes and tiara on head was left in solitary and victorious possession of the sky.
The Churchman had swallowed up the soldier; the Pontiff had vanquished the King; it was a true
premonition of the fatal field of Benevento, which saw the ultimate triumph of the Papal over
the Imperial cause.

But if the near presence of the burning mountain has tended to make the inhabitants of its
immediate zone the slaves of superstitious awe, the disasters of generations have likewise
imbued them with a spirit of fatalism, that appears even stronger than their outward show of
credulity. Life is not so sweet nor so dear apparently to these children of the South, but
that they can afford to take their chance of disturbance or death with a true philosophic calm.
The fisher-folk and maccaroni workers of Resina, Portici and the two Torres have, it is true,
little to lose; a small boat can at the last moment easily convey their families and slender
stock of household furniture to a place of temporary safety, and when the danger is over-past,
the same shallop can bring back the refugees and their belongings. But with the husbandmen
the case is different. Not only has he to fear the actual stream of lava, which may or may
not overwhelm his house and farm in its slow inevitable course, but there are also the showers
of hot ashes and of scalding water that will frizzle up in a few seconds every green blade
and leaf upon his tiny domain, for which he pays an enormous rental, sometimes as much as £12
sterling an acre. Yet the contadino takes his chances with a seraphic resignation that we do
not usually attribute to the southern temperament. After the eruption of 1872, which covered
the rich Paduli with a deep coating of grey ashes, a young peasant girl was heard deploring
the loss of her carefully tended gourds and melons; “Oh come volimme fa? Addio, pummarole!
addio, cucuzzielle!” whereupon an older woman, witnessing these useless tears, upbraided her
with the words: “Do not complain, child, lest worse befall you!” And indeed the whole population
of the Paduli, instead of lamenting over their scorched and spoiled crops, were jubilant at
the thought that the havoc done was only partial, not irrevocable;—a few months of incessant
labour, said they, would bring back the holdings to their former state of perfection. Yet a
general opinion prevails among foreigners that the Neapolitans are lazy, thriftless and helpless!
They indeed rely to a certain extent upon St Januarius to protect their crops from the efforts
of Nature, over which, they argue, the Saint is more likely to possess control than his human
applicants, but when once the fatal shower of ashes has fallen, they do not expect “San Gennaro”
to set their injured acres to rights again, but with a rare patience turn to the task themselves.
A more industrious, and at the same time a more capable and practical race of agriculturists
than the tillers of the slopes of Vesuvius, it would be hard to match. And thus in the sunshine
of the south, yet ever under the shadow of death and destruction, dwell many thousands of human
beings, as unconcerned as though Vesuvius were miles and miles away. Not unconscious, but fully
conscious of their doom, the victims of the Mountain toil and moil upon the fertile farms (in
many cases risen phoenix-like from their own ashes) that grow the early beans and tomatoes,
the egg-plants and the white fennel roots (finocchi) that well-fed travellers devour in the
hotels of Naples. Or else they tend the vines that yield the generous Lagrima Christi, of which
imprudent and heated visitors drink long draughts unmixed with water, and then complain of
ensuing languor and pains beneath their waistcoats. Luscious, yet seductive wine! Counsellor
of moderation after a first experience of excess! Essence of Vesuvius, whose strange name so
puzzled the poet Chiabrera!

  “Chi fu de’ contadini il si indiscreto,
  Ch’ a sbigottir la gente
  Diede nome dolente
  Al vin’ che sovra gli altri il cuor fa lieto?
  Lagrima dunque appellerassi un riso
  Parte di nobilissima vendemmia?”

  (“Who was the jesting countryman, I cry,
  That gave so fearsome and so dour a name
  To that choice vintage, which of all think I
  Most warms the heart’s blood with its genial flame?
  Smiles, and not tears, the epithet should be
  Of juice wrung from so fair a vinery.”)

                               * * * * * *

Scarcely had the above pages been written, than the Mountain, which had been drowsing for more
than thirty years, suddenly awakened to give appalling evidence of its latent activity and
powers of mischief. The eruption of April 1906 has, in fact, surpassed all previous outbursts
within living memory, and it may probably be reckoned amongst the most violent of all hitherto
recorded. Many of the details of this event doubtless remain fresh in the memory, and in any
case the sad condition of numerous towns and villages, and of the beautiful Vesuvian districts,
the paesi ridenti as the Neapolitans affectionately term these fertile lands, will serve for
some years to come as a sinister and ever-present reminder of the horrors of the past and of
the dread possibilities of the future. All vegetation for miles around the volcano has been
injured or destroyed, for not only was the Mountain itself covered deep with grit and ashes,
but the streets and gardens of Naples, the luxuriant plain of Sorrento, and even the heights
of Capri, twenty miles distant across the Bay, were shrouded in a funereal mantle of the greyish-yellow
dust that Vesuvius had flung into the air to let fall like a shower of parching and destructive
rain upon the earth. How vast was the amount of matter ejected from the crater and scattered
in this form over the surrounding country, we may judge from the scientific calculation that
315,000 tons fell in Naples alone! Everywhere appeared the same scenes of desolation, the same
dreary tint, for so thickly had this aerial torrent of ashes descended, that buildings, trees
and plants were completely hidden by it, the whole landscape suggesting the idea of a recent
heavy fall of dirty-coloured snow. Paesi ridenti, indeed! It was a land of ugliness and mourning,
a city of stifling air and of human terror.

A few days previous to the eruption, which began on April 5th, the island of Ustica, which
lies some forty miles north of Palermo, had been visited by earthquake shocks of such violence
that the Italian Government at last decided to remove the greater part of its population to
the mainland, as well as the convicts attached to the penal settlements on the island. Scarcely
had these manifestations ceased at Ustica, than Vesuvius began to show signs of increased activity;
the supplies in the wells on the mountain sides began to fail, and there was observed a strong
taste of sulphur in the drinking water; whilst—most dreaded phenomenon of all—the ever-active
crater of Stromboli, that lies midway between Naples and Messina, suddenly lapsed into quiescence.
We all know the subsequent story of the outbreak; of the thousands of fugitives flying into
Naples or other places of refuge; of the utter destruction of houses and cultivated lands;—the
doleful scenes of a Vesuvian eruption have been enacted and described time after time in the
history of the Mountain, and there is every reason to suppose they will be repeated at intervals
for centuries to come. The marvel is how human beings can calmly settle down and pass their
lives so close to the jaws of the fire-spouting monster, and why an intelligent Government
permits its subjects to dwell in places which are ever exposed to catastrophes such as that
which we have just witnessed. Well, it is the natural temperament of the Vesuviani to be fatalistic,
despite their religious fervour; and acts of legislature cannot force them to abandon their
old deep-rooted notions; all that the Italian Government can do therefore is to stand ready
prepared to help, when the upheaval does occur, as it inevitably must.

It is always a matter of speculation on these occasions as to what course the ejected lava
will pursue; whose turn, of the many settlements on the southern slopes of the Mountain, will
it be to suffer? This time it was Bosco-Trecase, a village above Torre Annunziata, that was
devastated by the sinuous masses of incandescent matter, high as a house and broad as a river.
Torre Annunziata itself, as also ruined Pompeii were threatened, but the red-hot streams of
destruction mercifully stopped short of their expected prey. The story of horrors and panic
in the overthrow of Bosco-Trecase is happily relieved by many a recorded incident of valour
and unselfishness. The royal Carabinieri, that splendid body of mounted police, who in their
cocked hats and voluminous cloaks appear as ornamental in times of quiet as they prove themselves
useful in the stormy hours of peril, acquitted themselves, as usual, like heroes. It was they
who guided away the trembling peasants before the advance of the lava, searching the doomed
houses for sick and crippled, whom they carried on their shoulders to places of security. Working,
too, with almost equal zeal and practical good sense were the Italian soldiers, who richly
deserved the praise that their royal commander, the Duke of Aosta, subsequently bestowed upon
them for their invaluable services rendered during these fearful days of darkness and danger.
“Soldiers!” declared the Duke, in his address to the troops on April 23rd, “I have seen you
calm and happy in the work of alleviating the misfortunes of others, and I put on record the
praise you have won. By promptly appearing at the places distressed by the eruption, you have
encouraged the people by your presence and your example; you have maintained order and have
safe-guarded property. Helping the local authorities, and even in some instances filling their
offices, you have carried out the most urgent and dangerous duties in order to save the houses
and to keep clear the roads. In the spots most heavily afflicted you have lent your assistance
in removing and caring for the injured, and in searching for and burying the dead you have
given proofs of great self-sacrifice and reverence (pietà). Not a few of the refugees have
obtained food and shelter in your barracks, and whole communities without means of existence
have been provided by you with the necessaries of life. Everywhere and from all your conduct
has gained you loud applause. Nevertheless, your task is not yet ended; continue at it out
of love for your country and devotion to your King!”(5)

With such a reputation for kindness of heart and energy in time of need, no wonder that the
Army is popular with all classes in Italy!

Nor did the King and Queen hold aloof from the scene of disaster, for they hurried from Rome
at midnight of that terrible Palm Sunday on purpose to comfort the terror-stricken population.
Victor-Emmanuel even penetrated in his motor-car as far as Torre Annunziata, in spite of the
fumes of sulphur and the many difficulties in proceeding along roads clogged deep with volcanic
dust and ashes. On another occasion the King and Queen paid a visit to the afflicted district
of the slopes of Monte Somma, where Ottajano and San Giuseppe had been almost buried by the
continuous falling of burning material from the crater. In fact, these localities suffered
even more severely than the towns on the seaward face of the Mountain (Bosco-Trecase excepted),
and at Ottajano hardly a house in the place remained intact at the close of the eruption, whilst
the loss of human life was probably higher here than elsewhere. The Duke and Duchess of Aosta—he
the king’s cousin, and she the popular Princess Hélène, daughter of the late Comte de Paris—were
likewise indefatigable in their efforts to assist and reassure the demoralized population,
and to make every possible arrangement for the feeding and housing of the numberless refugees
and the tending of the injured in the hospitals of Naples. Equally valorous was the conduct
of the great scientist, Professor Matteucci, who remained together with a few Carabinieri throughout
all phases of the eruption at the Vesuvian Observatory, although in imminent peril of death
amidst a deadly atmosphere of heat and sulphureous fumes.

It was on April 5th that the streams of burning lava first burst from the riven crater and
made their way down the south-eastern slopes, destroying Bosco-Trecase and reaching to the
very suburbs of Torre Annunziata. Pompeii itself was imperilled, and it is always well to remember
that during an eruption this precious relic of antiquity may possibly be lost to the world.
Meanwhile the rain of ashes and mud—formed by dust and hot water commingling—fell incessantly;
150,000 inhabitants of the Vesuvian districts fled in precipitate flight towards Naples, towards
the shore, towards the hill country beyond the Sarno. It was truly a marvellous spectacle to
observe the relentless stream of burning lava crushing irresistibly every opposing object in
its fatal path. Onlookers at a distance could perceive the walls of houses bulging outward
under pressure of the moving mass, until the roof collapsed in an avalanche of tiles upon the
ground, whilst with a final crash the whole structure—cottage, farm, church or stately villa—succumbed
to the overwhelming weight.

Many are the tales of courage and intrepidity; not a few, alas! are the stories of folly and
cowardice that are related in connection with the eruption. It cannot be said that the population
of Naples, where everybody was perfectly safe even if the atmosphere was unpleasant and the
distant thunders of the Mountain reverberated alarmingly, comported itself with dignity or
calm; and this criticism applies in particular to the hundreds of visitors—English, German,
American and other forestieri—who besieged the railway station in frantic and indecent anxiety
to remove themselves with all speed from the city. Some excuse might perhaps be found for the
hysterical terror of the poor inhabitants of the Mergellina or the Mercato, who spent their
time in wailing within the churches or in screaming for the public exhibition of the venerated
relics of their patron Saint, which again on this occasion the Archbishop, nolens volens, was
compelled by the mob to produce. But for the great mass of educated foreigners then filling
the hotels and pensions of the place, it cannot be said that their conduct was edifying, particularly
in face of the example set by the King and Queen of Italy. To add to the general panic prevailing
in the city, the Neapolitans themselves were not unnaturally greatly exasperated by the serious
accident which took place at the Central Market Hall near Monte Oliveto in the heart of the
old town. Here, early one morning during the course of the eruption, the great roof of corrugated
iron collapsed, killing many and frightening the whole of the populace, already sufficiently
unnerved by recent events. That this catastrophe was due to the casual methods, amounting in
this case to criminal neglect of plain duty, of the municipal authorities, who had neglected
to sweep the accumulation of heavy volcanic ash from off the thin metal roof, none can deny;
and this glaring example of public stupidity had of course a bad effect on the demoralized
multitude, which threatened to grow unruly, as well as terrified. No, the graceless stampede
of educated foreigners to the railway-station, the incompetence of the Municipality, and the
behaviour of the Neapolitan crowd do not appear very creditable to the supposed enlightenment
of the twentieth century. It had been confidently predicted that nearly fifty years of State
education and liberal government would work wonders in dispelling the crass ignorance and the
deep-seated superstition of the dwellers on the Bay of Naples. Yet, so far as can be judged
from recent events, matters seem to have changed but little on these shores, for the mass of
the population evidently preferred to pin its hope of safety to the miracle-working relics
of San Gennaro, rather than to the reassuring messages of Professor Matteucci, sent from his
post of undoubted peril on the mountain-side.

If the inhabitants of a great city, which was never seriously threatened with danger, should
have acted thus, there is undoubtedly much excuse to be found for the Vesuviani themselves,
whose houses and lives were certainly in danger from the devastating streams of lava. It was
with a sigh and a smile that we learned how the good people of Portici attributed their escape
from the fate of Bosco-Trecase to the direct interposition of a wonder-working Madonna enshrined
in one of their own churches. For some days the town had been threatened, so that many were
convinced of its impending doom, when happily at the last moment the expected fate was averted,
as though by a miracle. And miracle it truly was in the eyes of the people of Portici, when
it was observed that the snow-white hands of their popular Madonna had turned black in some
mysterious manner during the night hours. What could be a simpler or easier deduction from
this circumstance, than that Our Lady’s Effigy, taking pity on its affrighted suppliants, had
with its own hands pushed back the advancing mass of lava, and thus saved the town! Great was
the joy, and equally great the gratitude, displayed by these poor souls at Portici, who at
once organised a triumphal procession in honour of their prescient patroness “delle mani nere.”
Does not such an incident, we ask, lend a touch of picturesque medievalism to a modern scene
of horror and darkness, exhibiting to us, as it does, the traits of a simple touching faith
and of genuine human thankfulness?

Well, the great eruption of 1906 is over, and the inhabitants of the Vesuvian communes are
once more settling down in their ruined homes, or their damaged farms and gardens. No doubt
a new Bosco-Trecase will arise on the shapeless ruins of the old site, for fear of danger seems
powerless to deter the outcast population from reoccupying its old haunts. Ottajano will be
rebuilt, not for the first time, and its citizens will again trust to luck—and to St Januarius—for
protection from the evil fate which has repeatedly overtaken their town. The two Torres, Resina,
Portici, and the villages along the shore, have this time contrived to escape the lava streams,
and though their buildings have been severely shaken, and even wrecked in many instances, the
people will doubtless mend the cracks in their walls and place fresh tiles on the injured roofs.
They are wise in their own generation, for the Mountain is not likely to burst forth again
for another quarter of a century at least after so violent a fit, salvo complicazioni, of course,
as the more cautious Italians themselves say. But another outburst is inevitable; and whose
turn to suffer will it be then? Will it be Portici, or either of the Torres? Who knows?—and
what dweller under Vesuvius to-day cares at this moment? “Under Vesuvius,” but it is a new
Vesuvius, for the tall cone which was so conspicuous a feature of the Bay of Naples has disappeared
completely, and the summit of the volcano has been once more reduced to the level of Monte
Somma. How many years, we wonder, will be required for the Mountain to raise for itself once
more the tall pyre of ashes that it has itself demolished and flung on all sides to the winds?
At any rate let us now look for a period of rest, a period of prosperity to recoup the disturbed
denizens of these paesi già ridenti for their heavy losses and terrible experiences. Speriamo.

                                CHAPTER V

              THE CORNICHE ROAD FROM CASTELLAMARE TO AMALFI

It is without any feelings of regret that we learn of the non-existence of a railway line beyond
Castellamare, so that our journey to Amalfi along the coast must be performed in the good old-fashioned
manner of long-past vetturino days. Three skinny horses harnessed abreast are standing ready
at the hotel door to draw our travelling chariot, each member of the team gorgeously decked
with plumes of pheasant feathers in his head-gear and with many-coloured trappings, whilst
on the harness itself appears in more than one place the little brazen hand, which is supposed
to ensure the steed’s safety from the dangers of any chance jettatore, the unlucky wight endowed
with the Evil Eye. Nor is the swarthy picturesque ruffian who acts as our driver unprovided
with a talisman in case of emergency, for we observe hanging from his heavy silver watch-chain
the long twisted horn of pink coral, which is popularly supposed to catch the first baleful
glance, and to act on the principle of a lightning-conductor, in deflecting the approaching
danger from the prudent wearer of the coral trinket. Merrily to the sound of jingling bells
and the deep-chested exhortations of our coachman do we bowl along the excellent road in the
freshness of the morning air and light “through varying scenes of beauty ever led,” for the
Corniche road towards Amalfi is admitted to be one of the finest in the world. Following the
serpentine curves above the cliffs, we have on our right hand the dazzling Mediterranean with
classic capes and islands all flushed in the early sunshine, whilst above us on the left rise
the steep fertile slopes of the Lactarian Hills. Convent and villa, cottage and farmhouse,
peep out of embowering verdure, whilst our road is shaded in many places by the overhanging
boughs of blossoming almond and loquat trees. The whole region is in truth a veritable garden
of the Hesperides, where in the mild equable climate fruit and flowers ripen and bloom without
a break throughout the rolling year.

Beneath the picturesque pile of Santa Maria a Pozzano, perched aloft above the roadway, we
pass along the edge of the sea-girt precipice, rounding the Capo d’Orlando, until we reach
the pretty little town of Vico Equense, with its churches and gay-coloured villas nestling
amidst groves of olive and orange trees. Vico owes its prosperity in the first instance to
the patronage of “Carlo il Zoppo,” Charles the Dwarf, the lame son and heir of King Charles
of Anjou, who founded a settlement and built a villa upon the site of the ancient Roman colony;
and it was in the old royal demesne of the Angevins that the hand of the deformed king’s daughter,
the Princess Clementia, was demanded formally in marriage by the French monarch, Philip the
Bold, who sought to marry her to his third son, Charles of Valois. The match between the young
prince of France and his cousin, the Neapolitan princess, appeared suitable to all concerned
in every respect save one; for it was well known that the King of Naples had been lame from
his birth, and it could never be deemed fit for the expected heir of France to marry any but
a perfectly sound and healthy bride. Now the Queen of Naples was too proud to accede to the
hints of the French ladies, who evidently were most anxious to acquaint themselves with the
satisfactory condition of her daughter’s “walking members,” though she went so far as to allow
the maiden to appear before them clad only in a flowing robe of gossamer silk. The possible
danger of losing her opportunity to become Queen of France proved, however, beyond the ambitious
young lady’s powers of endurance, and to the horror of her haughty mother and the delight of
the foreign emissaries, the Princess Clementia then and there doffed her silken robes and appeared
before all in the historic garb of Lady Godiva. A glance at the princess’s form in puris naturalibus
sufficed to convince the inquisitive Frenchwomen that no hereditary taint from Il Zoppo descended
to his daughter; and accordingly the betrothal of the two young people was celebrated that
very evening amidst the usual revels and feastings.

The clean cheerful town on the sheer limestone crags boasts a cathedral, wherein, so the guide-book
informs us, we shall find the tomb of Filangieri, the great Italian jurist. But the building
contains in reality far more stirring associations than those connected with a prominent lawyer.
It is but a rococo structure of the usual Italian type, and its painted series of portraits
of past bishops is by no means an uncommon complement of cathedral churches in the South. But
here, amidst the long rows of indifferent portraits, we note an omission, a space that is occupied,
not by a likeness but by a medallion, which represents a cherub with the forefinger of his
right hand laid as a seal of silence upon the lips. Here-by indeed hangs a tale, obscure perhaps,
but pathetic and human to the last degree. We all remember the broad frieze filled with Doges’
faces which is carried round the great hall of the ducal palace in Venice, wherein the place
assigned to the traitor, Marino Faliero, contains a black veil instead of the usual portrait.
Here in little Vico Equense is to be found a somewhat similar incident, but with this important
difference:—the bishop whose portrait is here omitted was the most worthy of remembrance of
all his peers.

The crime of Monsignore Michele Natale, Bishop of Vico Equense, to which the silent cherub
bears everlasting witness, was that of being a patriot and a Liberal (in the truest sense of
that term) during the anxious times of the ill-fated Parthenopean Republic, that short-lived
period of aristocratic government which was set up in self-defence by certain Neapolitan nobles,
prelates and men of science after the abrupt departure of their cowardly King and Queen to
Palermo. We all remember the terrible ending of that government: how the vile rabble-army of
Cardinal Ruffo assaulted Naples; how the city capitulated to the Cardinal on the express condition
that all life and property should be spared; and how Lord Nelson, refusing to recognise the
terms that Ruffo himself had agreed to, and overruling the Cardinal’s protests, treated the
unhappy prisoners. The Bishop of Vico Equense was one of this band of martyrs, for he suffered
death under circumstances of exceptional brutality on the morning of August 20th 1799, in the
piazza in front of the church of the Carmine, together with two Neapolitans of noble rank,
Giuliano Colonna and Gennaro Serra, and with the poetess, Eleonora Pimentel, a Portuguese by
birth but the widow of a Neapolitan officer. All went nobly to their doom amidst the execrations
of the demoralised bloodthirsty mob of lazzaroni, yelling at and insulting the “Jacobins,”
and kept back with no little difficulty by the royal troops from mutilating the corpses of
women, bishops and princes. Monsignore Natale himself was hanged, and in his case the public
executioner—“Masto Donato” as he was nick-named by the populace—gave vent to many pleasantries
concerning the episcopal rank of his victim. Blindfolded and with the cord of infamy depending
from his neck, the Bishop was led up to the fatal ladder amid deafening shouts of

  “Viva la forca e Masto Donato;
  Sant’ Antonio sia priato!”

On reaching the top of the gallows, the hangman made fast the rope to the cross-tree, and then
an assistant (tirapiede) from below adroitly pushed the unseeing prisoner into space, catching
on to his legs meanwhile, whilst “Masto Donato” himself adroitly leaped from the gallows-top
upon the prelate’s shoulder. With the hangman on his back, shouting aloud how much he was enjoying
his ride upon a real bishop, and with the other ruffian clinging to his heels, Monsignore Natale
swayed backwards and forwards amidst yells of execration and gratified hate on that hot August
morning in front of the Church of the Carmine little more than one hundred years ago. His body
was left on the gallows to be insulted by the mob throughout the long sweltering day, and then,
stripped of all its clothing, was finally flung with other corpses of noble men and women into
a charnel-house at Sant’ Alessio al Lavinaio. Who it was that placed this quaint little memorial
to the murdered prelate in his cathedral church we know not; but here the speechless yet eloquent
cherub tells Natale’s sad story of brutality and injustice to all who care to listen. Happily
the spell of silence is at length broken, and the true history of that hateful era of crime,
cruelty, lying, and intrigue is gradually being revealed; and the enemies of the Church in
Italy learn with an astonishment, which is perhaps feigned, that in that glorious army of martyrs
of 1799 more than one ecclesiastic of high rank suffered in the ill-starred and premature cause
of Neapolitan liberty.

Crossing the little river Arco, we proceed uphill through the region of vines and olives, until
we have passed the Punta di Scutolo, where begins our descent into that famous tract of country,
the Piano di Sorrento, a plateau above the cliffs, some four miles in length by one in breadth.
Poets of antiquity and bards of the Middle Ages alike have sung the delights of the Sorrentine
Plain, and have painted in glowing colours of inspired verse its race of happy peasants, its
fruitful fields and orchards, its luscious vines, its excellent flocks. Galen, the cunning
old physician, recommended to his nervous patients what would now be termed a “rest cure” in
these favoured regions; whilst the grateful Bernardo Tasso, father of the immortal Torquato,
speaks of the capital of this district as “l’Albergo della Cortesia,” and in an ecstasy of
delighted appreciation, goes on to add: “l’aere e si sereno, si temperato, si salutifero, si
vitale, che gli uomini che senza provar altero cielo ci vivono sono quasi immortali.” And though
praise from Torquato’s courtly sire must not be taken too seriously, yet few will deny that
the beautiful plain deserves many of the eulogies that have been showered upon it. At the small
town of Meta, the next place of importance after Sorrento itself, the road divides at the Church
of the Madonna of the Laurel: our way to Amalfi leading southward over the opposing ridge—the
“Sorrentini Colles” of Ovid—whilst the other traverses the length of the plain by way of Pozzopiano
and Sant’ Agnello, until it reaches Sorrento.

One prominent feature of this district has already attracted our attention; the number of deep
ravines with which the whole plain is intersected. These natural clefts are marvellously lovely
in their rich luxuriance of foliage, and with their precipitous sides and verdure-clad depths
will recall the wonderful latomiè, the ancient stone-quarries of Syracuse. Their depths are
filled with orange and lemon trees, mingled with sable spires of cypress and the tall forms
of bays, which here bear jet-black berries, such as are rarely seen in our northern clime;
whilst the edges of the cliffs are clothed with a serried mass of wild flowers; red valerian,
crimson snap-dragon, tall blue campanulas, the dark green wild fennel, white-blossoming cistus,
and a hundred other plants, gay with colour and strong with aromatic perfume.

  “The quarry’s edge is lined with many a plant,
  With many a flower distilling fragrant dew
  From brightly coloured petals. Almond trees
  Give snowy promise of sweet leaves and fruit;
  Here all the scented tangle of the South
  Covers the boulders, calcined by the sun
  To pearly whiteness; thorn or asphodel
  Sprout from each cranny of the topmost ledge
  To nod against the deep blue sky, or peer
  Into the verdure-clad abyss below.”

It is not surprising to learn that these romantic glens, filled with greenery, are reputed
locally to be the haunts of fairies, Monacelli, as the Sorrentine inhabitants name them. Like
the “good folk” of certain country districts in England, the pixies of Devonshire, and the
“Tylwyth Teg” of rural Wales, these elfin people of the ravines are not malicious or unkindly
in their nature, but they are particular and somewhat exacting in certain matters. They appreciate
the attentions of mortal men, and offerings of fresh milk or choice fruit are not beneath the
notice of the Monacelli. Borrowing the idea from the votive offerings they make in the churches
to the Virgin and the Saints, the peasants sometimes place little lamps in the fern-draped
grottoes of these gullies, and to such as punctually perform these acts of courtesy, the Monacelli
frequently show signs of favour. The padrone of a local inn has assured us that he and his
wife stood very high in the good graces of the little people, who had on one occasion actually
written them a letter, although as the characters employed were unknown to any person in the
village, the object of their communication by this means seems somewhat of a mystery. Another
and a more practical instance of their patronage was then related, for the favoured landlord
assured us that on one occasion, when he and his wife descended downstairs in the morning,
they found the house cleared, the hearth ready swept, and all the contents of last night’s
supper-table relaid on the brick floor, but d’un modo squisito, such as no human hand could
ever have been deft enough to contrive. Fuore avra il Monacello in casa—perhaps he has had
the Fairy in the house—has passed into a local phrase to designate a neighbour’s unexplained
prosperity. But, again, the lucky recipient of these favours must never blab or even hint at
the origin of his good fortune, for all gossip is highly distasteful to the fairy folk; and
that, we suppose, is the true reason why so little authentic information can be gleaned as
to the methods of the Monacelli.

In direct contrast with the Monacelli of the ravines, who are, on the whole, well inclined
towards mortals, are the Maghe, first cousins evidently to the terrible ginns of Arabian folk-lore;
perhaps the Saracenic pirates themselves may have introduced their oriental sprites to the
Neapolitan shores. In the popular mind the Maghe are supposed to possess vast treasures hidden
in caves by the seashore, or on the bleak mountain side, and it was doubtless concerning these
spirits that the guide’s tale, given in a previous chapter, relates. The most celebrated Maga
of all is the demon who haunts a certain underground corridor near Pozzuoli, containing an
immense hoard of gold and jewels, which he is willing to present to anybody that is ready to
give in exchange a new-born baby, presumably for purposes of devouring. Nor was the general
belief in the cave-dwelling monster at Pozzuoli limited to the poor peasants and fisher-folk,
for rumour persistently asserted that King Francis of Naples, father of Bomba of impious memory,
more than once attempted to negotiate with the guardian of this buried treasure; but the Maga’s
terms, it seems, were too bloodthirsty and extravagant even for a Neapolitan Bourbon to comply
with, and in that case they must indeed have been pretty startling. Malignant fairies are,
in short, quite common upon the Sorrentine plain, where exasperated mothers are sometimes in
the habit of frightening their squalling children into silence by threatening to introduce
them to Mammone—perhaps a corruption of the old Greek word mormo—a terrible ghost, that must
be a near relation to the “Big Black Man” of English nurseries, who is ever ready to carry
off naughty boys and girls in his sack.

But the whole of the Sorrentine Peninsula is full of local superstitions, the vast majority
of which can easily be traced to the influence of Catholicism, whilst comparatively few seem
to be the legacy of ancient Greek or Roman mythology. Belief in witchcraft is universal in
these parts, but the witch herself (strega) is regarded somewhat in the light of a beneficent
“wise woman,” who can arrest the far more dreaded spell of the Evil Eye, rather than as the
malevolent old hag of bucolic England in the past. Certainly there has never been recorded
in Southern Italy any such popular persecution of poor harmless old crones as once disgraced
English countrysides; nor has any Italian jurist, like the erudite Sir Matthew Hale, ever condescended
to supply legal information concerning the peculiarities of witches, and the best methods of
prosecuting and burning them. But the strega, though not as a rule dangerous to mankind, provided
she be not disturbed or insulted, has the same supernatural power of transit on a broomstick
that is possessed by her northern sister. On many a dark night have the peasants crossed themselves
with fear on hearing the witches flying through the storm-vexed air to keep their unholy tryst
beside the famous walnut tree of Benevento, which has been described for us by the learned
Pietro Piperno in his mysterious treatise, entitled De Nuce Beneventana. Even snatches of the
witches’ song can sometimes be distinguished above the howling of the gale—

  “Sott’ aero e sopra vento,
  Sotto la Nuce di Benevento!”

Perhaps it may afford some consolation to those who have a dread of witches that the word “Sabato,”
solemnly pronounced on these awful occasions, is of real service to the utterer; whilst such
as have had the good fortune to be born on a Friday in March are permanently placed outside
the evil power of their spells, since our Saviour was crucified on a Friday in that month.

But at length we have finished the ascent of the ridge, and our driver halts for a moment at
the inn of the “Due Golfi.” A smiling damsel, dressed in the picturesque native costume, advances
to offer us the national drink of Italy, sweet vermouth that is frothed up with a little fizzing
water in a narrow tumbler; and though carriage exercise is not liable to produce thirst, yet
we cannot be so churlish as to refuse the draught, especially as the delay allows us to take
our farewell look at the Bay of Naples. For here we have reached the peak of the rocky saddle
that divides the two famous gulfs; and before us we now behold the wide crescent of the Bay
of Salerno with its sunburnt vineyards and its precipitous cliffs. To our right we perceive
the craggy headlands stretching southward till they culminate in the Cape of Minerva:—how much
more attractive sounds the good old classical name than the new-fangled Punta della Campanella,
so called from the alarm bell which used to be tolled in the ruined fortress at the approach
of the Moslem pirate galleys! Vastly different is the aspect on this side of the peninsula
to that which we have just left behind us. There is the plain below us, thickly dotted with
farms and villas set amidst crops and orchards, a fertile scene of industry and population;
here on the Salerno side are wild stony tracts affording only pasturage for a few sheep and
goats, and covered for miles with broom, cytizus, coronella, myrtle, and numberless fragrant
weeds, all struggling fiercely for existence on the dry barren soil, and filling the clear
air with an incense-like perfume. Such is our first acquaintance with the Costiera d’Amalfi,
that wonderful stretch of indented rocky coast-line once containing the Republic of Amalfi,
which was the forerunner of the glorious Commonwealths of Florence and Venice. From the grey
cliffs of Capri to the west, as far as the headland beside Salerno, stretched this diminutive
state, composed of a confederacy of sister-cities, whereof Amalfi herself was the queen and
metropolis. Its glories have long vanished, but the Costiera d’Amalfi remains an enchanted
land, not only on account of its natural beauties, but also by reason of its historical associations
which give an additional charm to every breezy headland and every little town upon this wonderful
shore.

Below us, as we rapidly descend the slopes by the curves of the Corniche road, lies the little
beach known as Lo Scaricotojo, whence in the days previous to the construction of this splendid
highway all visitors were wont to embark for Amalfi;—that is, unless they attempted the expedition
by way of the mountain roads leading thither from Castellamare or La Cava. It raises a smile
in these days of swift and luxurious travelling to learn from an early Victorian guide-book
that “the most elegible mode of going from Sorrento to Amalfi is either to ride or to be carried
in a chaise à porteurs to that part of the Colli where begins a rapid descent, and thence descending
on foot to the Marinella of the Scaricotojo on the Gulf of Salerno.... The ride occupies about
an hour and a quarter, and the descent which, though steep, is not dangerous, occupies about
an hour.” Nous avons changé tout ça; yet there are still living amongst us those who lament
the passing away of the old-fashioned days of Italian travel, when inns were bad but picturesque,
and expeditions to such remote places as Amalfi were not only difficult but even dangerous;
since in compensation for slow progress and risk of brigands every town owned a primitive charm
which is now rapidly disappearing before the modern irruption of locust-like swarms of tourists
with their motor cars, their luncheon baskets, and their kodaks. Well, to the majority of travellers
the value of natural scenery is not a little enhanced by the sense of comfort, and here on
the Costiera d’Amalfi the most particular can have no cause to complain, since it is one of
the few lovely spots of Southern Europe that has not yet been invaded by the dividend-paying
railway. No, the old Republic retains to a great extent its ancient atmosphere of unspoiled
beauty and remoteness from the bustling world. It is still a stretch of glorious and historic
country wherein one can obtain a pleasant and valued respite for a time from the overpowering
improvements of an industrial age.

As we look southward across the breadth of the Bay, our eye is at once caught by the group
of the Isles of the Sirens, which, though in reality fully a mile distant from the nearest
point of the coast, seem in this clear atmosphere as though they were lying within a stone’s
throw of the beach. Around these bare bluffs of rock, seemingly flung by the hand of Nature
in a sportive mood into the blue waves, lingers one of the most insidious of all the old Greek
legends, for it was past these lonely cliffs that the cunning Ulysses sailed during his long
career of mazy wanderings in search of his island home and his faithful Penelope. In those
days, so the Greek bard tells us, there dwelt upon these islets strange sea-witches with the
faces and forms of most beautiful maidens, although their lower limbs had the resemblance of
eagles’ feet and talons. Two sirens only, says Homer, dwelt upon these coasts, although later
poets have increased the number of the fatal sisters to three or even four. Singing the most
enchanting songs to the sound of tortoise-shell lyres, there used to bask in the sunlight beside
the gentle ripple the Sirens, their nether limbs well hidden from the gaze of passing seamen,
who, attracted by the tuneful notes, hastened hither to discover the whereabouts of the musicians.
Innocent eyes, angelic faces, flowing golden locks and white beckoning hands had every power
to draw the curious mariner nearer and nearer, until he came within reach of the fell enchantresses.
For the Sirens loved the flesh of mortals, and bleached skulls and bones of digested victims
lay in heaps upon the sandy floor of their azure-hued caverns. Gold and jewels, too, the spoils
of many a brave galley that had been lured to destruction by these charmers, likewise littered
their retreat, and perhaps it was as much the glittering of this gold as their own lovely features
that in certain cases enticed the wary merchant into this fatal trap. Gold and a pretty face:
what male heart could be proof against the double temptation the Isles of the Sirens offered
to the navigator in the days of the Odyssey! Only one sailor over these seas proved himself
a match for the wiles of the cruel goddesses of the Amalfitan coast; for Ulysses, as we know,
stopped the ears of his companions with wax on their approach towards this dangerous spot,
whilst he himself, always eager to hear and see everything yet perfectly well aware of the
Sirens’ magnetic power, had himself tightly bound by cords to the mast. So whilst the deaf
rowers stolidly tugged at their oars, oblivious of the weird unearthly melody around them,
the clever King of Ithaca gained the honour of becoming the only mortal who had listened to
that subtle song without paying the penalty of a hideous and ignoble death.

It is strangely disappointing to find that no recollection of Sirens or of Ulysses lingers
in the lore of the present dwellers upon these coasts. They have no more notion of the aspect
of a Siren than they have of a pleisosaurus, and, as a modern writer naïvely complains, they
are not sharp-witted enough to invent fanciful tales to please the enquiring foreigner. Nor
is this lack of intelligence to be wondered at, when we recall to mind the clean sweep of all
classical learning and tradition which that period of time, truly known as the Dark Ages, made
throughout Italy; if Petrarch found it necessary to explain to King Robert the Wise with the
greatest tact and delicacy that Vergil was a poet and not a wizard, what must have been the
appalling ignorance prevailing amongst the peasant and the fisherman? And yet these barren
rocks were known as the Isles of the Sirens centuries before the verses of the Aeneid immortalized
the mythic voyage of the Trojan adventurer, who passed along this iron-bound coast on his way
towards the mouth of Tiber. Their modern, or rather medieval name of I Galli is somewhat of
a puzzle. Erudite scholars affect to derive it from Guallo, a fortress captured during a war
between King Roger and the Republic of Amalfi, but this explanation, we confess, does not sound
very reasonable. Others prefer to imagine that the word Gallo (a cock) contains an allusion
to the claws and feathers of the Sirens themselves, for certain of the ancient writers endowed
these dire Virgins of the Rocks with the wings as well as the claws of birds;—in fact, they
represented them as Harpies, those horrible fowls with women’s faces that appeared upon the
scene at Prospero’s bidding to spoil the bad king’s supper party. But why, if the Sirens were
female,—and on this point all their critics agree with an unanimity that is wonderful—should
their ancient haunts be called “The Cocks?” The untutored natives themselves, understanding
nothing of Sirens or of Odysseys, hold their own theory with regard to the disputed name, which
they connect with the construction of a harbour at distant Salerno, and though this legend
sounds foolish enough, it is scarcely less flimsy than the notions already quoted. A certain
enchanter, one Pietro Bajalardo, undertook—in modern parlance, contracted—to build in a single
night the much needed breakwater at Salerno on the strange condition that all cocks in the
neighbourhood should first be killed; for the wizard, so the story runs, had a special aversion
to Chanticleer on account of his having caused the repentance of St Peter by his crowing. In
any case, the reigning Prince of Salerno gladly complied with the eccentric request, and at
his command every cock in or near the place was accordingly slaughtered, with the solitary
exception of one old rooster, who, being very dear to the heart of his aged mistress, was kept
concealed beneath a tub and thus escaped the general holocaust. Throughout the livelong night
Bajalardo was busily engaged in superintending the work of building the harbour, whilst the
fiends who carried out his behest were actively conveying huge blocks of broken cliff from
the Cape of Minerva to place in the waters of Salerno. But at daybreak the cock imprisoned
beneath the tub, the sole survivor of his race, according to natural custom announced the dawn,
to the despair of Bajalardo and the terror of his attendant fiends, who in their precipitate
flight dropped into the sea near the Punta Sant’ Elia the huge masses of stone they were then
carrying; and these rocks are called by men I Galli in consequence to this day.

But, to be strictly impartial, it was not the Sirens alone who were responsible for all the
victims who perished on these arid rocks. Homo homini lupus; man is always ready to prey upon
man, and many of the dark tales concerning the Galli go to prove the truth of the terrible
old adage. At what period the Sirens abandoned their ancient retreat and swam or flew away
to more congenial haunts is unknown to history; but certain it is that the rulers of proud
Amalfi committed many a cruel deed of murder or torture upon their deserted islets. For here,
many a hapless political prisoner languished for years in abject misery, a prey to the heat
and glare of summer and to the fierce gales of bitter winter nights. Rock-cut steps and ruined
towers still remain as mementoes of those dark days, when callous human gaolers worthily filled
the places of the absent Sirens. It was in a chamber of yonder turret, still standing, that
the Doge Mansone II., blinded by a brother’s vengeance, dragged out years of utter misery in
pain and darkness, until the Emperor of the East, suzerain of Amalfi, at last took compassion
upon the prisoner’s wretched plight and allowed him to be removed into honourable confinement
at Byzantium. For many hundreds of years the Isles of the Sirens have lain untenanted, nor
are they visited nowadays save by a few inquisitive travellers or by the fishermen of the Scaricotojo,
who find safe shelter under their lee during the sudden squalls of the Mediterranean. For,
strange to relate, there are no dangerous currents, no treacherous whirlpools close to these
rocky islets, such as we might expect to give some natural interpretation to the ancient myth,
the origin of which remains unexplained and constitutes a very pretty mystery as it stands.

We bid farewell to the group of ill-omened rocks, as we proceed rapidly under the rocky slopes
of the Monte di Chiosse towards Positano, which extends in a long curving line of cheerful-tinted
flat-roofed houses from the summit of its protecting cliff to the strand below, sprinkled with
boats and nets and cloths with heaps of grain a-drying. The descent to the lower portion of
the little town is singularly charming with its varied scenery of rocks and hanging woods above
us, with the tiled domes of churches outlined against the deep blue waters, and with the whole
scene dominated by the pierced crag of Montapertuso, beyond which thrusts up into the cloudless
sky the triple peak of the giant Sant’ Angelo. Positano is a thriving as well as an ancient
place, and of its dense population we have abundant evidence in the swarms of children that
pursue our carriage, brown-skinned picturesque little nuisances, shrilly and incessantly crying
out for soldi. Most of these infants wear bright coloured rags, but not a few are dressed in
garments that at once recall the ginger-coloured robes of the Capuchin friars, for the brothers
of the Order of St Francis are popularly reputed to be especially competent in keeping aloof
evil spells from young persons entrusted to their charge; and of course, argue the doting parents,
it is only natural that the spirits of darkness should not dare to molest the little ones tricked
out in robes similar to those worn by these holy men.

From the point of view of history the chief interest of Positano centres in the time-honoured
tradition that Flavio Gioja, the original inventor of the compass, was a native of this town,
once a flourishing and important member of the group of cities which comprised the Amalfitan
Republic in its palmy days. But Clio, the Muse of History, is an inexorable mistress, and she
will not rest content with mere hearsay, however venerable, and as a result of careful investigation
it would seem that Flavio Gioja, who for centuries has been generally credited with this marvellous
discovery, must himself have been a personage almost as mythic as the Sirens of this shore,
for his very name is spelled in a variety of ways that is hopelessly confusing. Nor has the
question of his place of birth ever been satisfactorily settled, for both Positano and Amalfi
claim this hero of science for a son, although only in Amalfitan annals can the disputed name
be detected. Be this as it may, it was a citizen of this Costiera who has ever been acknowledged
as the inventor of the compass, though concerning both himself and his alleged discovery there
is a complete absence of any contemporary record. Later writers have, it is true, always admitted
the honour on behalf of the Republic, and Pontano goes so far as to call Amalfi magnetica in
compliment thereof, whilst during the later crusades the Amalfitani, who were evidently convinced
of the genuine nature of Gioja’s claim, had an heraldic figure of the mariner’s compass emblazoned
on their banners. It seems a thousand pities to throw doubt upon so picturesque a tradition,
for the date of the invention of the compass has been fixed as 1302, two years only after the
holding of the famous Papal Jubilee in Rome which Dante’s verse has described for us. Nor can
the ingenious theory be upheld that the fleur-de-lys, the emblem of the French kings of Naples,
which still decorates the dial of the compass in almost all lands, is in any wise connected
with Carlo il Zoppo, the monarch to whom Gioja is said to have dedicated his ingenious discovery.
No, we have little doubt that the compass, like so many of the scientific wonders that crept
into Europe before and during the time of the Renaissance, was originally brought from the
far East, a farther East than the argosies of Amalfi had ever penetrated. The little magic
box with its moving needle was first used, it is now admitted, by the cunning merchants of
Cathay during their trading expeditions across the stony monotonous plains of Central Asia
that lay between the Flowery Land and the civilization of Persia. From Cathay the use of the
magnetic needle was introduced to the Arab mathematicians of Baghdad and Cairo, and through
them the secret of the lodestone of China was conveyed to the coast towns of the Levant. At
Aleppo or Alexandria some astute trader of Amalfi—perhaps his name really was Flavio Gioja—contrived
to learn the new method of steering from some Moslem or Jewish merchant, and he in his turn
brought this novel and precious piece of information back to the Italian shores. If, then,
a native of Amalfi did not evolve the idea of the compass out of his own brain, at least it
was the old Republic which first impressed the Western world with its immense value, and this,
too, at a far earlier period than the date usually assigned to Gioja’s “discovery.” For a Christian
bishop of Jerusalem a hundred years before Gioja’s day makes mention of the compass as being
in common use amongst the Saracens of Palestine, whilst its existence was certainly known to
Brunetto Latini, the tutor of Dante, whom for certain moral failings upon earth his brilliant
pupil somewhat harshly places in the infernal regions. History has, in short, long deprived
poor disconsolate Positano of its vaunted glory in the production of a medieval scientist whose
very existence has now become a matter of speculation.

As we thread our way along the road that curves round headland after headland, and is carried
over sheer precipices whose base is lapped by the cool jade-green water, we begin to realize
the essential difference between the Sorrentine shores we have left behind us, and the marvellous
Costiera d’Amalfi we are now passing. Ever green and smiling are the favoured districts that
stretch from Castellamare to Massa Lubrense, with the mountain tops acting as screens to protect
the groves and crops from the sun’s ardent rays and with the fresh reviving breezes from the
Abruzzi ever breathing upon them. But here we seem to be under the very eyes of the Sun-God,
who stares fixedly from rising to setting upon the Amalfitan coast. Welcome enough is this
continuous basking in his smiles during the short winter days; but oh! the long, long summer
hours wherein King Helios relentlessly pours down his burning glances upon the shallow soil
that covers the rocky face of the Costiera! We who visit the territories of the old Republic
in winter or early spring only perceive one aspect of the picture. We rejoice in the gladdening
warmth afforded by unbroken sunshine and by the complete absence of cutting winds which Monte
Sant’ Angelo’s towering form excludes from these shores; we note with delight the premature
unfolding of buds and blossoms, and we marvel at the young fruit of the dark-leaved loquat
trees—the nespoli of the South—turning to pale yellow even in February. But we cannot realise
the blinding glare and the torrid heat of a July or August, making a perfect furnace of this
sheltered corner, where the thin layer of cultivated soil, that has been scraped together painfully
by human hands, becomes baked through and through, when the water-tanks are exhausted, and
when the clouds of thick dust hang like a pall of white smoke for miles above the sinuous course
of the Corniche road. How close and sweltering must be the atmosphere of these populous coves,
when the very waves are flung luke-warm upon the hot sand! How must the inhabitants sigh for
a breath of cool air from the Abruzzi, for the zephyr that tempers the heat on the Sorrentine
plain! Carpe diem; let us enjoy the Costiera d’Amalfi in the freshness of early spring-time,
before the oranges and lemons have been stripped from the leafy groves and before the sun has
had time to scorch up the vegetation that now gives colour to every cleft and crevice of the
rocky coast-line.

As we advance eastward from Positano we obtain glimpses from time to time of mountain valleys
thickly clothed with brushwood, and far above our heads we perceive Agerola perched aloft under
the shadow of the topmost crag of Monte Sant’ Angelo—Agerola, where wolves still haunt the
dim recesses of the chestnut woods, and where the charcoal burners can tell us of the great
grey Were-Wolf that prowls round the village on stormy nights. Passing the torrent of the Arriengo
and the Punta di San Pietro with its lonely chapel looking out to sea; glancing down upon the
deep set strand and gloomy caverns of Furore, and rounding Cape Sottile, we find ourselves
at Prajano, one of the prettiest spots to be found on all this wonderful coast. Here we stop
to visit the church of San Luca, which stands on a little grassy platform overhanging the sea
and commanding a superb view of the Bay of Salerno. It is a baroque structure of the type common
everywhere in Italy, which travellers are apt to despise without acknowledging how picturesque
this decadent style of architecture can appear. At Prajano the wooden doors of green faded
to the hue of ancient bronze, the yellow-washed plaster façade and the lichen-covered tiles
of the roof and tower make up a charming mass of varied colouring when viewed against the broad
blue band of sea and sky beyond. Within, the church is mean and tawdry, just a

  “Sad charnel-house of humble hopes and crimes,
  Long dead and buried in obscurity;”

but the afternoon sun struggling through the curtains that cover its fantastic windows allows
a mellow light to fill the expanse of the building. A toothless old woman and a young girl,
both of them thinly and poorly clad, are the sole occupants of the church, and they are evidently
too much absorbed in prayer to notice our presence. They have placed beside the Madonna’s altar
lighted tapers which glimmer feebly in a shaft of strong sunlight that falls through a rent
in the curtain overhead. For what purpose, we wonder, have these candles been bought out of
a scanty store! Are they burning on behalf of some sailor-boy now being tossed upon the ocean?
Or are they offered to obtain some boon more selfish and less pathetic? At any rate, this pair
of intent worshippers, representing fresh Southern youth and crabbed age, make up a pretty
picture as they kneel together on the pavement of tiles ornamented in bright rococo patterns
to represent the coat-of-arms of some forgotten noble benefactor: it is too simple and everyday
a sight in Italy to offer a theme for verse, too sacred a subject for an idle photograph. We
leave the church on tip-toe, and return to the terrace with its low marble seats and its stunted
acacia trees to sit a few moments before re-entering the carriage.

Skirting the Capo di Conca we obtain our first sight of proud Amalfi, and we realize that our
drive, long in distance perhaps, but all too short with its varied beauties and interests,
is drawing to a close. Nearer and nearer do we approach our goal, the shining turrets of the
Cathedral tower acting as our beacon, until at length our chariot clatters beneath the echoing
tunnel hewn in the cliff that leads into the town itself.

                                CHAPTER VI

                   AMALFI AND THE FESTIVAL OF ST ANDREW

The traveller’s first impressions of Amalfi, which is essentially the beauty-spot of the Riviera
of Naples, are usually associated with the old Capuchin convent, long since turned into a hotel
and now the bourne of most visitors to this coast. Its arcaded façade and its terraced garden
stand on a plateau seemingly cut out of the sheer face of the cliff, whilst high above the
town the lofty barren rocks enfold the Convent and its verdant demesne within a natural amphitheatre
and protect this sunny paradise from the keen blasts of winter. A flight of steps zigzagging
up the rocky hill-side connects the building with the high road below; whilst a narrow pathway,
leading between stone walls and now passing beneath dark mysterious archways, wherein the lamps
burning before the Madonna’s shrines afford a welcome light even at midday, descends by steep
gradients from the garden above into the main piazza of the little city. Built by the celebrated
Cardinal Pietro Capuano nearly seven hundred years ago for Cistercian monks, the monastery
in the sixteenth century came into the possession of the Capuchin Friars, those brown-robed
figures that with their bare feet and girdles of knotted white cord are such familiar and picturesque
objects in the daily crowds of every Italian town. But the friars have been forced to abandon
their airy retreat ever since the suppression of the religious houses, which succeeded the
union of the old Neapolitan kingdom with young Italy, and their convent has long been put to
secular uses. Yet the old monastic church still exists, and superstitious people declare that
the spectral forms of ejected Capuchins are sometimes to be seen advancing slowly up the rocky
ascent in order to revisit the sacred building that is now closed for worship. Nevertheless
the church is cared for by the members of the Vozzi family, its present owners, who every Christmas-tide
still prepare the popular presepio, that curious representation of the scene in the stable
at Bethlehem, wherein a score of gaily dressed figures of painted wood represent the Holy Family
and the worshipping peasants. Little in fact has been changed within the building itself, and
the exquisite cloistered court with its slender intertwining Saracenic columns still remains
to delight alike the artist and the antiquary. We say “still remains” advisedly; for beyond
the tiny quadrangle our eyes at once light upon a scene of hideous devastation.

Doubtless many persons will recall the great land-slip of December 1899, when almost without
warning the whole face of the rocky headland that shelters Amalfi on the west tore itself loose
and slid with a crash like thunder into the sea below, overwhelming in its fall the little
inn known as the “Santa Caterina” and burying in its ruins two English ladies and several fishermen.
The sinister scar still continues as a blot upon the lovely landscape, speaking only too eloquently
to all of sudden death and destruction amidst the surrounding scenes of life and beauty. The
older portion of the Capuchin convent, by a miracle as it were, escaped the on-rush of the
land-slide, but its famous “Calvary,” the large group of the Crucifixion that appears prominently
in so many pictures of Amalfi, was completely swept away, so that the boatmen from the sands
below can no longer behold the immense vivid representation of the Last Agony which was wont
to greet their upturned eyes. Already Time’s kindly hand has begun to drape the scene of the
catastrophe with a decent mourning veil of grey and green, for the hardy succulent plants that
can withstand the sun’s fierce rays and can thrive despite the boisterous salt sea-winds are
already sprouting from every crack and cranny of the riven earth. Perhaps it is as well for
us selfish and self-satisfied mortals to possess a memento mori close at hand in a spot so
teeming with the joy of life; yet somehow the first sight of that mass of broken headland and
the dark ominous fissure in the hill-side, flung across the sunlit scene, is apt to send a
slight shiver through the frame of the beholder.

There are three indisputable advantages to be gained by turning a suppressed religious house
into a modern hotel, so a cunning old Italian inn-keeper once confided to us; that is, of course,
provided one is not afraid of the proverbial curse that clings to the buying of any of the
Church’s sequestrated property. These three things are good air, good water, and lovely views;
benefits that a layman is fully as competent to understand as any cloistered ecclesiastic.
And certainly the worthy Vozzi are fully justified in offering these privileges to their guests
at the Albergo Cappuccini. Signor Vozzi! How many travellers in the South recall with infinite
pleasure their host’s tall commanding figure, his snowy drooping whiskers, the sun-shade that
was rarely out of his hand, his old-fashioned courteous manners, and his famous family of cats,
whereof the coal-black Nerone was the prime favourite, a feline monster almost as tyrannical
as his Imperial namesake of evil reputation. Signor Vozzi’s striking personality, the sable
fur of agate-eyed Nerone, the eternal sunshine, and the wide all-embracing views over sea and
land, are somehow all jumbled together in our perplexed mind, as it recurs to the many days
spent beneath the convent roof. Nay, not beneath the roof! For we were wont to pass the whole
day, even the short December day, in basking on the warm sheltered terrace and peering over
the busy beach and the dazzling waters below, whereon the tale of Amalfitan fisher-life could
be read as it were from the pages of a book.

Somehow the old monastic buildings appear marvellously well adapted to modern needs. The former
inmates’ cells, wherein the brown-robed brethren of the Order of St Francis until lately were
wont to pass their placid uneventful lives, afford comfortable if somewhat limited accommodation;
whilst the covered loggia that runs the whole length of the cells has been turned into a series
of delightful little sitting-rooms, their broad arc-shaped windows facing full south, a boon
that only a winter resident in Italy can properly appreciate. Dove non entra il sole, entra
il medico, is a hackneyed but well-proven adage; consequently here in the old Capuchin convent
the services of the local medicine-man ought rarely to be required. Signor Vozzi’s guests partake
of their meals in the ancient refectory, a large bare echoing chamber with a vaulted ceiling,
which still contains the old stone pulpit from which in more pious days a grave brother was
wont to read aloud choice passages from the works of the early Fathers of the Church or of
St Bonaventura, the Seraphic Doctor of the Franciscans, during the hours allotted to the frugal
repasts of the friars. But the public rooms and the cool white-washed corridors do not present
such attractions as the glorious garden with its famous pergola and its views of the Bay. Here
even in Christmas week we found quantities of plants in full bloom: the delicate yellow blossoms
of the Soffrana rose; trailing ivy-leaved geraniums with gay heads of carmine flowers; the
honey-scented budleia with its little globes of dark yellow flowerets: clumps of gorgeous scarlet
salvia; and straggling masses of the pretty cosmia, red, pink and white. Humming-bird hawk-moths
darted hither and thither in the sunshine, restless little creatures whose wings are never
for a moment still, as they poise gracefully over each separate blossom in turn. The pergola
itself, which every artist at Amalfi paints as a matter of course, generally with a Capuchin
friar—at least a friar pro hac vice—or a pretty dark-eyed damsel in the native costume, sitting
in the foreground, was certainly bare of foliage, we admit, for even in the soft warm air of
the Bay of Salerno the grape-vine wisely refuses to burst into leaf at Yuletide, no matter
how enticing the warmth. But the thick white pillars and their wooden cross-beams, around which
are entwined the leafless coiling limbs of the sleeping vine, throw dark blue patterns of chequered
shadow upon the sunlit ground. Above the terraced garden rises the orangery, well watered by
many artificial rillets, and from the midst of the orange and lemon trees there emerges a path
leading to the entrancing bosco, or grove, that fills the deep hollow space formed by the sheltering
cliffs behind. It was mid-winter, as we have said, yet pink cyclamens and strong-scented double
narcissi were blooming freely, whilst from the dark boughs of the ilex trees overhead there
fell upon the ear the pleasant twittering of innumerable birds, for happily the cruel snare
and the gun are strictly forbidden in this sacred spot, so that his “little sisters, the birds,”
that the gentle Saint of Assisi loved so tenderly, can still sing their songs of innocence
and build their nests in peace amidst the trees that no longer remain the property of the great
humanitarian Order. At nightfall this garden is almost equally beautiful beneath a star-lit
sky and with the many lamps of the town below throwing long bars of yellow light upon the placid
waters of the Bay. As we pace the long terrace, wrapped in the glory of a million stars and
revelling in the exalted yet fairy-like loveliness of the scene around us, we perceive the
mellow night air to be redolent of a strange but fascinating perfume. It is the olea fragrans,
the humble inconspicuous oriental shrub that from its clusters of tiny white flowers is thus
giving out its secret soul at the falling of the night dews, and permeating the whole garden
with its marvellous floral incense. But if the star-lit, flower-scented nights of Amalfi are
to be accounted as exquisite memories, how much more glorious and exhilarating is the rising
of the sun, as he appears in full majesty of crimson and gold above the classic hills that
overlook Paestum to the east! Leaning at early dawn from the windows of the Cappuccini, we
have watched the sky flush at the first caress of “rosy-fingered Eôs” and seen the fragment
of the waning moon turn to silver at the approach of the burning God of Day, still tarrying
behind the lofty barrier of the capes and mountains of the Lucanian shore.

  “Slowly beyond the headlands comes the day,
  Though moon and planet on a sky of gold,
  Chequered with orange and vermilion-stoled,
  Have floated long before the sun’s first ray
  Has shot across the waters to display
  Amalfi in her dotage; as of old
  His beams lit up her splendours manifold,
  Her quays and palaces that fringed the bay.
  His smile makes every barren hill-side blush
  In rose and purple for the glories fled,
  As early watchers note th’ encroaching flush
  From proud Ravello to Atrani spread,
  And curse the cruel arm that once did crush
  This sea-sprung Niobe, and leave her dead.”

Dead, alas! For the old liberties of the great Republic of Amalfi have been extinct for more
than half a thousand years, and it is in consequence difficult for us to realise that the quaint
noisy squalid picturesque little city by the sea-shore, huddled into the narrow gorge of the
Canneto, is that self-same Amalfi whose navies rode triumphant over the Mediterranean before
the days of the Early Crusades. Yet Amalfi, which may be reckoned amongst the first-born of
that fair family of medieval cities that their prolific parent the land of Italy brought forth
in an age of darkness, was also the foremost to droop and die, her glories scattered and passed
before Florence had ceased to be an obscure country town. In this case History presents to
us a most forcible, not to say an unique example of the origin, rise and decline of a power,
all occurring within a short space of time. Amalfi springs, as it were, out of the void as
a city of importance, for no Roman colony occupied its site in antique times. Its very nomenclature
is a puzzle to scholars, and the usual statement that it owed its name to Byzantine settlers
coming hither from the ancient town of Melfi in the Basilicata does not sound very convincing,
though for want of a better theory it must suffice. Why, when, and by whom the city was in
reality founded remains an enigma, yet we learn from a passage in one of the letters of St
Gregory the Great that the place was of sufficient size to be governed by a bishop in the sixth
century. By the tenth we find the Republic of Amalfi already risen to a position of commanding
importance, and holding its own against the rival states between which its territories were
wedged; the dukedom of Naples to the west and the principality of Salerno to eastward. Dexterously
playing on the greed and prejudices of the various tyrants who ruled Naples and Salerno, and
occasionally allying itself with them in order to repel the fierce attacks of their common
enemy, the Saracenic hordes who were then harrying the Lucanian coast, Amalfi continued to
uphold its political freedom and dignity in the face of immense difficulties. And in gratitude
for the vigour with which the Amalfitani had waged war against the infidel invaders, Pope Leo
IV. in course of time conferred upon the Duke or Doge, the chief magistrate of the Republic,
the title of “Defender of the Faith.” Nominally under the suzerainty of the Greek Emperor at
Constantinople, Amalfi was practically independent; its system of government was conducted
on lines somewhat akin to those of aristocratic Venice; its population is said to have exceeded
fifty thousand in the capital city alone; its boundaries extended from the Promontory of Minerva
on the west to the town of Cetara upon the confines of Salerno; whilst many daughter-towns
of wealth and importance, such as Scala and Ravello, sprang into being within the narrow limits
of the sea-girt republic. Owning a small and by no means fertile extent of land, the inhabitants
of Amalfi from its earliest days were forced to become merchants and sailors; to use a modern
phrase, the Amalfitani came to possess a complete monopoly of trade with Eastern lands, both
Christian and Mahommedan. It was the ships of the Republic that alone brought to the shores
of Italy the rich stuffs, the gold and silver embroideries, the dried fruits and the strange
birds and beasts of Asia Minor and Arabia, and in exchange for their oriental merchandise obtained
an abundance of corn, wine, oil, meat and other commodities of life that their beautiful but
somewhat sterile dominions were unable to supply to an ever increasing population. But it was
not only the material products of the East that the sailors of Amalfi conveyed to Europe in
their home-bound argosies; for they brought back with them the rudiments of arts and sciences
that distracted Italy had well-nigh forgotten during the period of the barbarian invasions.
Through the merchant princes of Amalfi, the secrets of astronomy, of mathematics and of scientific
navigation were re-introduced into the land that had almost lost its old Roman civilization.
A priceless manuscript of that great code of laws, the Pandects, which a Byzantine Emperor,
the famous Justinian, had caused to be compiled with such skill and labour, putting into concise
and accurate form the collected wisdom of generations of Roman jurists, was included amongst
the treasures of the East that were borne back to Italy in the Republic’s vessels. And in addition
to restoring the old Roman jurisprudence to its original home, the city of Amalfi had the honour
of promulgating the celebrated Tabula Amalphitana, the new maritime laws that were henceforth
destined to regulate the whole commercial system of the western world. No marvel then that
the poet William of Apulia should praise in unmeasured terms the glories of the new-sprung
city, whose trade extended to the shores of India and whose merchants possessed independent
settlements in every great city of the Levant.

  “Nulla magis civitas argento, vestibus, auro
  Partibus innumeris; hac plurimus urbe moratur
  Nauta marit coelique vias aperiri peritus.
  Huc et Alexandri diversa feruntur ab urbe
  Regia et Antiochi. Zeus haec freta plurima transit
  His Arabes, Indi, Siculi nascuntur et Afri.
  Haec genus est totum prope nobilitata per orbem,
  Et mercanda ferens, et amans mercata referre.”

  (“No city richer in its store of gold,
  Of precious stones and silks doth Europe hold;
  Her skilful mariners o’er treacherous seas
  With aid of compass sail where’er they please.
  From Egypt and from Antioch they land,
  Their precious cargoes on th’ Italian strand.
  Scathless Amalfi’s navies penetrate
  The distant ports of every Paynim state.
  Match me throughout the circuit of this earth
  Another race so full of zeal and worth.”)

A small state on a barren shore, yet the holder of the balance between East and West by means
of its wide-spread commerce, such was Amalfi during the tenth and eleventh centuries. In some
respects this Republic of the Middle Ages appears as the prototype of the Venice of the Renaissance,
for there is not a little in common between the city that was built upon the marshy islets
of the Adriatic lagoons, and the city that was erected at the base of the treacherous cliffs
of the Tyrrhene Sea. Solely by means of commerce both foundations rose from nothingness to
splendour and power: both held the gorgeous East in fee; and both fell lamentably from their
high estate. The chief point of difference in this comparison of their careers is obvious;
Amalfi collapsed suddenly and utterly, whilst the Queen of the Adriatic has sunk gradually
to decay until she has become the interesting monument of a vanished magnificence which we
admire to-day.

It was the rising naval power of Pisa that finally crushed the greatness of Amalfi, although
the Republic had already entered into its days of decline when Robert Guiscard at the time
of the First Crusade had temporarily annexed its dominions to his new principality. Some thirty
years later King Roger of Naples forcibly seized the whole of the Costiera d’Amalfi, allowing
the citizens to retain their own form of government. Four years after this, the Pisan fleet,
coming to aid the people of Naples against King Roger, utterly destroyed the once vaunted navy
of Amalfi, and sacked both the city itself and the two hill-set towns of Scala and Ravello.
Its political liberty had already been crushed by the Normans, and now its ships and its wealth
were dissipated by the Pisans; it was a double measure of ignominy and disaster from which
Amalfi never recovered. Amidst its humiliations and sorrows, the stricken city had also to
mourn the loss of its greatest treasure, its secular palladium, that most precious copy of
the Pandects of Justinian, which the Pisan marauders seized and carried back with them to their
city on the Arno. Here in Pisa the famous volume remained in safe keeping for some three hundred
years, and then, as Time’s round brought its inevitable vengeance on the plunderers of Amalfi,
it was removed by the victorious Florentines to their own city. So intense a veneration for
the book itself now manifested itself amongst the scholars and students of Florence, that at
one period offerings of incense were often made to the inscribed wisdom of past ages as to
a most holy relic of some Saint, and the clerk or jurist about to peruse its faded characters
was wont, first of all, to breathe a prayer of genuine gratitude on his knees for the preservation
of this ancient book. Amalfi, Pisa, Florence, each in its turn has owned the guardianship of
this most famous literary jewel, which is to-day jealously guarded as the chief treasure of
the world-renowned Laurentian Library.

It is true that the prosperity of Amalfi did not disappear immediately after the inroad of
the Pisans, for Boccaccio, writing in the fourteenth century, still speaks of the ancient territory
of the destroyed Republic as “a rocky ridge beside a smiling sea, which its inhabitants call
the Costa d’Amalfi; full of little cities, of gardens, of fountains, and of rich and enterprising
merchants.” It was in fact reserved for relentless Nature herself to complete the work of destruction
that Norman armies and Pisan fleets had more than half accomplished. We have already spoken
of the terrible land-slips to which this beautiful shore is eminently subject, even at the
present day, as the mass of wreckage outside the old Capuchin convent only too clearly testifies.
In the year 1343, during the progress of a storm of exceptional fury, of which the poet Petrarch
has left us a vivid account in one of his letters, the greater part of the devoted city was
swept away by a tidal wave. The whole line of quays stretching from the headland by the Cappuccini
to the point of Atrani on the east, together with churches, palaces, and warehouses, was now
swallowed up by the surging waters and engulfed for ever in the depths of the sea; and thus
the very element that had brought wealth, power, and prosperity to Amalfi in the past now proved
the direct cause of her final calamity. With this fearful cataclysm of Nature following upon
the heels of its political extinction, we can hardly wonder at the rapid decline of this “Athens
of the Middle Ages,” whose population has now sunk to about one seventh part of the 50,000
citizens it once boasted in the far distant days of her maritime supremacy.

Reflecting upon the famous past of this ancient city, let us descend the steep pathway from
the terrace of the Cappuccini to visit the crowded beach below. Here we find ourselves in the
midst of a cheerful animated throng, engaged in mending nets, in painting boats, and in other
occupations connected with a sea-faring life. The tall fantastic houses with balconied windows
that line the curve of the sea-shore, the glistening sands and the brown-legged, gay-capped
fishermen, combine to present a charming picture of southern Italian life, so that we could
gladly linger in observing the ever-changing scenes of life and industry. But we cannot tarry
long, for the ubiquitous beggars who have begun to pester us ever since we passed the hotel
gates have meantime dogged our descending footsteps, and their forces have been recruited on
the way hither by many willing assistants. No doubt the vast majority of the Amalfitani are
hard working and self-respecting, for the little town possesses maccaroni factories and old-established
paper mills of no small importance, yet it is obvious that a considerable portion of the total
population and at least one-half of all the children spend their whole time in demanding alms
of strangers. Before, behind, and from a distance arises the ceaseless cry of “Qual co’ signor’!
Fame! Fame!” in hateful tones of make-belief misery, and these whining appeals are aided by
all the expressive pantomimic gestures of the South. You are placed on the horns of a dilemma:
give, and the report that a generous and fabulously wealthy Signore has arrived in Amalfi will
run like wild-fire through the whole place, and your life in consequence will become an absolute
burden for the remainder of your sojourn in this spot. Refuse, and the wretches who have hitherto
been wheedling and cringing at your heels, will at once grow insolent and threatening, especially
in the case of unprotected ladies. It is in fact a choice of two evils, and the only remedy
that we ourselves can suggest is for the persecuted traveller to select a good stout larrikin
and pay him freely to keep at arm’s length his detestable brothers and sisters in professional
beggary. But the uninitiated usually endure these odious importunities for a certain length
of time, and then, exasperated by the unchecked mendicancy of the place, at last fly precipitately
from this beautiful shore, to seek comparative peace and freedom elsewhere. For it is useless
to argue; it is foolish, even dangerous to grow angry. “Why should we give to you?” we asked
one day in desperation of a particularly persistent woman. “Because,” was the unabashed and
impudent but unanswerable reply, “you have much, and I have nothing!” Driven by these human
pests from the sunlit strand, we make our way through the busy piazza, where peasant women
with piles of fruit and vegetables make a glowing mass of colour around the central fountain
below St Andrew’s statue, and proceed towards the Valley of the Mills. A different phase of
Amalfitan life now greets us, for here are to be found the hard-working bees of this human
hive, and it must be confessed their ways make an agreeable change from the habits of the pestering
drones that infest the beach and the neighbourhood of the hotels. The whole of the steep rocky
gorge of that tiny torrent the Canneto is full of mills, each emitting a whirring sound which
mingles with the continual plash of the water as it descends in miniature cascades the full
length of the ravine, providing in its headlong course towards the sea the motive power required
to turn all this quantity of machinery. Bridges span the Canneto at several points, whilst
either bank is occupied by tiny factories of paper or soap, and by winding stone stair-ways
that lead upward to terraces contrived to catch the sunshine for the purpose of drying the
goods. The whole valley, with its strong contrasting effects of sun and shade and its varied
atmosphere of intense heat and of chilly dampness, is full of seething picturesque humanity.
The combined sounds of creaking wheels, of falling water and of human chattering are almost
deafening within this narrow echo-filled gorge, above which in the far distance we catch a
glimpse of rocky heights with the town of Scala perched eyrie-like against the deep blue of
the sky overhead. Pretty laughing girls, bare-footed and with marvellously white teeth, emerge
from the open door-ways to smile pleasantly at us, for the workers of the Valle de’ Molini
are thoroughly accustomed to the presence of strangers in their midst. Half-naked men, who
have stepped for a moment out of the hot rooms of the maccaroni factories in order to breathe
the fresh air, regard us with calm disdain and without any seeming interest. Our presence is
tolerated, even if our reception excites no feelings of surprise or cordiality, so that we
are allowed to pursue our walk up the ever-narrowing valley in peace and comfort and to admire
at our leisure the wonderfully beautiful effects of colouring produced by the cascades of purple-stained
water, the graceful forms and gay dresses of the girls, and the peeps of fruit-laden orange
trees above fern-clad walls. And how dark the people are! For though black eyes and hair are
commonly associated with the Italian race, yet in the North we find abundant evidence of the
admixture of Teutonic blood, whilst in the South the fair-haired Norman settlers have left
indelible marks of their conquest of Naples and Sicily in many blue-eyed and white-skinned
descendants; but here in Amalfi a blonde complexion seems to be absolutely unknown. “Com’ è
bianco! Com’ è bianco!” called out one of a party of girls with swarthy skin and ebon hair
and tresses, who languidly came out to stare at us, as we wended our way slowly up the Valley
of the Mills.

But the chief pride of Amalfi, and indeed its sole surviving fragment of departed magnificence,
is the Cathedral, dedicated to St Andrew the Apostle, who is patron of the city. A broad flight
of steps, flanked on either side by the Archbishop’s Palace and the residence of the Canons,
leads to a platform covered by a most beautiful Gothic loggia set with richly traceried windows
and upheld by antique marble columns. At its northernmost angle we see springing into the blue
aether the tall graceful red-and-white striped campanile, surmounted by its barbaric-looking
green-tiled cupola and pinnacles. Facing the top of the steps are the two magnificent doors,
specially designed in distant Byzantium to embellish this church more than eight hundred years
ago, and cast by the famous artist in bronze, Staurachios. Two Latin inscriptions, incised
in letters of silver upon the baser metal, relate to the world that one Pantaleone, son of
Maurice, caused this work to be undertaken in honour of the holy Apostle Andrew, in order that
he might obtain pardon for the sins he had committed whilst upon earth. These glorious gates
were the gifts to their native city of members of the family of Pantaleone of Amalfi, merchant
princes who had amassed an immense fortune by trade in the Levant. They are splendid specimens
of niello work, which consisted in ornamenting a surface of bronze by engraving upon it lines
that were subsequently filled in with coloured enamel or with some precious metal. These portals
of Amalfi, perhaps the earliest example in Southern Italy of this rare form of art, are divided
into panels adorned with Scriptural subjects simply and quaintly treated, wherein the stiff
attitudes of the figures and the many long straight lines introduced testify plainly enough
to their Byzantine origin and workmanship. As we enter the cool dark incense-scented building,
we note that though cruelly maltreated by the baroque enthusiasts of the eighteenth century,
the general effect of the interior is still impressive with its rows of ancient pillars and
its richly decorated roof. On all sides marble fragments with exquisite reliefs meet the eye,
spoils evidently filched from the abandoned city of Paestum across the Salernian Bay and presented
to the church by the Norman conquerors of Amalfi. After inspecting the classical bas-reliefs,
we descend into the ancient crypt, which well-meaning artists have completely encased with
a covering of precious marbles and garish frescoes of the Neapolitan school. It is a place
of more than local sanctity, this modernized crypt, for the possession of the relics of the
Apostle which Cardinal Capuano proudly brought hither after the sack of Constantinople in the
early years of the thirteenth century, was considered by many to constitute a sufficient recompense
to Amalfi for her lost independence. Popes and sovereigns were in the habit of approaching
the shrine, and the number of these illustrious visitors includes the names of St Francis of
Assisi, Pope Urban IV., the holy St Bridget of Sweden, and the notorious Queen Joanna II. of
Naples. Aeneas Silvius Piccolomini, afterwards Pope Pius II., however, seems to have thought
Amalfi, ever dwindling in size and importance, too mean a place to own so great a treasure,
and he accordingly transported the head of the Saint to Rome, where it is now accounted amongst
the four chief relics of St Peter’s. Perhaps it was to counterbalance the loss of so important
a member of the Saint’s anatomy, that in the succeeding century there arose a report which
spoke of the rescue of certain relics of the Apostle Andrew during the headlong course of the
Reformation in Scotland. The most precious objects preserved in the Cathedral of St Andrew’s,
says this legend, were secretly saved from the expected fury of Knox’s partisans and brought
to Amalfi, where they were reverently added to the store of remains that had survived the plundering
of Pius II. Whether or no there be any truth in this somewhat fantastic theory, it is enough
to state that St Andrew continues to be patron Saint of this maritime city, for which office
the character of the Galilean fisherman who was called to be a fisher of men seems specially
appropriate. Nevertheless, despite the valuable additions made in Reformation days, the sanctity
of the shrine is not held so high as it used to be. No longer do the venerated bones ooze with
the sweet-scented moisture that in medieval days was piously collected to be used for purposes
so varied as the curing of warts, or the scattering of Paynim fleets! Yet so late as the days
of Tasso, the great Apostle himself was evidently connected in the popular mind with the performance
of so bizarre a miracle:—

  “Vide in sembianza placida e tranquilla
  Il Divo, che di manna Amalfi instilla.”

But although the present times are too sinful to allow of the distillation of the fragrant
dew of Amalfi, we observe the kneeling forms of not a few intent worshippers within the dimly-lighted
crypt, in the midst of which the Spaniard Naccarino’s bronze figure of the Apostle uprises
with dignified mien and life-like attitude. Sant’ Andrea is still “Il Divo,” the tutelary god
of the Amalfitani; he remains in the estimation of these simple ignorant folk the special protector
of the community. Times and ideas change, but not the old deep-rooted feeling of a personal
tie between the Saint and his favoured people.

We were lucky in happening upon the great popular festival of Sant’ Andrea during our visit
to Amalfi, and consequently were enabled not only to witness a picturesque scene of considerable
splendour, but also to observe how strong a devotion the Amalfitani still manifest towards
their own especial Saint. With the first flush of early dawn, discharges of mortars from the
beach and the neighbouring hills began to arouse the echoes and to remind the still slumbering
population that once more the great anniversary had arrived. The world was quickly astir to
do honour to the great St Andrew, and from a very early hour an interminable stream of peasants
and villagers, young and old, male and female, began to enter the town from all quarters, and
to congregate in the piazza where stands the large fountain crowned by the Saint’s own effigy.
Here with exemplary patience the throng waited until the hour of the ceremony in the Cathedral
drew nigh. Within the huge building priests and lay-helpers were actively employed in preparing
for the event, and by their exertions the whole interior had been transformed into what may
be best described as a magnificent ball-room, for every blank wall had been covered with draperies
of rich crimson damask and the very pillars had been swathed from base to capital in the same
gorgeous material. Innumerable old cut-glass chandeliers, that had reposed since the last festa
di Sant’ Andrea in huge round boxes in some secluded vault, had been slung by means of cords
from the ceiling and the arches of the nave, whilst a large number of mirrors set in carved
gilt frames had been affixed to various points of the walls and columns. The fine marble pavement
lay thickly strewn with bay and myrtle leaves, emitting a pleasant wholesome scent when crushed
under foot by the picturesque but somewhat malodorous crowd of fisher-folk and peasants. On
entering the church, at the first sound of the bells booming over head, we found ourselves
heavily pressed by the surging throng of worshippers, and it was only with difficulty we could
obtain a sight of the ceremonies at the high altar, prominent upon which stood the silver bust
of the Apostle containing the precious relics. It was a typical Italian festa. The chanting
was harsh and discordant; the antiquated inharmonious organ emitted unexpected squeals, as
if in positive pain; there was, it is needless to add, a complete absence of that “churchy”
demeanour which passes for reverence in the North; yet withal, despite the shrill discordant
music, the tawdry embellishments of the grand old building and the absence of propriety of
the crowd, there was perceptible some mysterious underlying force that compelled us to note
the extraordinary hold the Church has upon the people of Southern Italy. For all this throng
of persons had assembled that day with one definite purpose: to see their universal friend
and patron, their Saint and their worker of domestic miracles; they had come to pay their homage
to a celestial acquaintance, with whom, thanks to the Church’s teaching, they had all been
intimate from their cradles. They had not thus assembled at an early hour, deserting their
mills and their shops, their boats and their nets, renouncing their chances of gain, to hear
a preacher’s eloquence or to listen to fine music, but merely to pay their annual visit of
respect to their Spiritual Master. Why should we aliens intrude upon so private a gathering?
In any case, we have grown weary of standing in the close sickly atmosphere, wherein the fragrance
of the crushed bay-leaves, the fumes of incense and the strange smell of garlic-eating humanity
blend in an oppressive manner. We push our way through the eager and intent congregation, and
gaining the door-way step with a sigh of relief into the sunshine that is flooding the loggia.
But it is too hot to remain here, and we descend the great stair-case in order to take up a
post of vantage in the shade on the opposite side of the piazza; having gained our desired
position we expect in patience the arrival of the procession. Nor have we very long to wait.
The officials of the town suddenly dart forward to clear the steps of their crowd of ragged
children, and almost simultaneously the great bronze doors of Pantaleone are flung open to
the sweet air and the sunshine. It was a wonderful and deeply interesting experience to watch
the glittering train slowly emerge from the darkness of the church into the glare of day, and
then descend that stately flight of marble stairs to the sound of joy-bells and to the accompaniment
of explosions of fireworks. First came the leading members of the various Confraternities of
the little city, all bearing tapers whose tongues of flame shone feebly in the fierce contemptuous
sunlight, and all wearing snow-white smocks and coloured scarves. Red, green, blue, white,
purple, yellow, gleamed the huge banners of these different societies, each borne by a tall
vessillifero, or standard bearer, assisted by quaint solemn little figures who acted as pages.
Then followed the body of the clergy in copes of white and gold, with eyes downcast as they
chaunted in loud nasal tones from books in their hands; next came the Canons of the Cathedral
in fine old festal vestments reserved for such occasions and with mitres on their heads, for
Amalfi clings to the ancient ecclesiastical privileges that were granted in distant days when
Florence and Venice were little more than villages. Last of all walked the Archbishop, an aged
tottering figure, weighed down by his cope of cloth of gold and seemingly crushed beneath his
immense jewelled mitre. Two lackeys, almost as infirm as their venerable master, and clad in
threadbare liveries edged with armorial braid, were in close attendance, whilst behind the
Archbishop, beneath a gorgeous canopy of state upheld by six white-robed assistants, was borne
the great silver bust of St Andrew. The appearance of the Image of “Il Divo,” upon which the
sunbeams were playing in dazzling coruscations of light, was greeted with a murmur of applause
and satisfaction from the expectant crowd in the open. Hats were doffed; knees were bent; prayers
were muttered, as with slow and cautious steps the bearers of the Image and its canopy began
to descend. Having gained the lower ground in safety, a momentary halt was made, during which
we were able to note the mass of votive offerings—jewels, chains, rings, watches, seals—suspended
round the Saint’s neck, amongst them being many silver fishes, doubtless the gifts of grateful
mariners. And at this point we were spectators of a pretty incident. A little girl with black
ringlets and eager eyes was dexterously lifted on to her father’s shoulder, in order that she
might present “Il Divo” with a golden chain, which the tiny fingers deftly clasped round the
bejewelled neck of the silver bust. The crowd saw and applauded; it was a moment of triumph
for the dark-eyed child, for the Church, and for the approving throng. With the new addition
of the child’s necklet to the treasury of the Saint, the procession pursued its way through
the square towards the Valley of the Mills, with banners waving, with priests chaunting in
harsh monotonous tones, and with clouds of incense rising into the sun-kissed air. It was truly
a beautiful and curious sight, this festival of the Church amidst people so devout and surroundings
so appropriate.

On his safe return to his now brilliantly lighted Cathedral, the Saint was welcomed with indescribable
enthusiasm. The crazy old organ was made to produce the loudest and liveliest of music; the
uniformed municipal band awoke the echoes of the venerable but bedizened fabric with its complimentary
braying; and urchins were even permitted to scatter fire-crackers upon the floor in honour
of the event. It was a real ecclesiastical Saturnalia of a most innocent and joyous description.
All Amalfi spent the remaining hours of day-light in feasting, dancing and singing, and when
at last darkness fell upon the merry scene, rockets and Roman candles were seen to spring into
the night air from many points in the landscape, illumining the sea with quickly dying trails
of coloured light. Watching the bonfires and the fireworks, and listening to the sounds of
revelry and song arising from the town below, we pondered over our experiences of the day as
we paced our airy terrace of the Cappuccini. Surely the South has remained immutable for centuries
in its deeply rooted love of religious festivals. The forefathers of these devotees of Andrew
the Fisherman were equally enthusiastic worshippers of Poseidon or of Apollo. The Church has
not in reality altered the outer attributes; it has but added a special moral significance
to the old pagan gatherings. The ancient gods of Greece and Rome are dethroned, and their very
names forgotten by the populace; but their cult survives, for it has been adapted to the glorification
of Christian Saints. True it is that the milk-white sacrificial oxen and the gay garlands of
antiquity have been omitted; nevertheless, there remain the music, the incense and the unrestrained
jollity of the people. Much that is beautiful and suggestive has perished, yet there survives
enough of the old classical ritual for us to see that the true spirit of antiquity has never
wholly died out amongst these sunburnt children of Magna Graecia.

  “See the long stair with colour all ablaze,
  With banners swaying in pellucid air,
  As mitred priests with cautious footsteps bear
  The silver Image, flashing back the rays
  Of jealous Phoebus—Ah! the altered days
  When these Lucanians with wind-lifted hair,
  Blossom-bedecked, with limbs and bosoms bare,
  Sang to Apollo psalms of love and praise!
  With bells and salvoes all the hills resound,
  And incense mingles with the atmosphere,
  As still this Southern race, ill-clothed, uncrowned,
  Retains the memory of the Pagan year,
  When changed, yet all unchanged, Time’s round
  Makes the Jew Fisherman a god appear.”

                               CHAPTER VII

                          RAVELLO AND THE RUFOLI

No visit to Amalfi can be considered complete without ascending to the decayed town of Ravello,
that crowns the rocky heights to the north-east of the parent city by the sea-shore. The road
thither leads along the beach, passing between the picturesque old convent that is now the
Hotel Luna, beloved of artists, and the solitary watch tower on the precipice which stands
sentinel above the waters on our right hand. At this point we turn the corner, and find ourselves
in Atrani, lying in the deep gorge of the Dragone and joining its buildings to those of Amalfi
on the road above the beach. Prominent upon the steep ridge that separates the two cities stands
the ruined keep of Pontone, the last relic of the town of Scaletta that was a flourishing place
in days of the Republic. A tall belfry of peculiar and striking architecture which dominates
Atrani is usually attributed to the art of the Saracens, whom King Manfred called in to garrison
this place during his wars with Pope Innocent IV. Atrani, which is but a suburb of Amalfi,
suffered equally with the Capital during the great upheaval of Nature that desolated this coast
in the fourteenth century, so that little of interest remains except the quaint church of San
Salvatore a Bireta, wherein the Doges of Amalfi were once elected and crowned. This ancient
building lies hidden in a sandy cove beneath the roadway, and those who care to run the gauntlet
of beggars and descend to the beach below, can examine its beautiful bronze doors, which the
generous citizen Pantaleone gave pro mercede animae suae et merito S. Sebastiani Martyris.
But there is very little else to inspect, for the interior has been hopelessly modernized.

Soon after passing Atrani we turn sharply up hill to the left, and begin our ascent towards
Ravello. The dusty white road winds upwards through a region of carefully cultivated terraces
filled with olives and vines, intermingled here and there with orange, lemon, fig, and pomegranate
trees. As we gain higher ground, our horizon tends ever to widen, and we behold the expanse
of sea and sky melting in the far distance into “some shade of blue unnameable,” whilst the
mountain-fringed ring of the Bay of Salerno becomes vividly mapped out to our eyes from the
Cape of Minerva to the Punta di Licosia. On our left we peer down into the depths of the dark
ravine of the Dragone, whose black shadows are popularly supposed to give its name of Atrani
to the cheerful little town we have left behind. Let us thank Heaven that we are at last out
of reach of the beggars, and that the only human beings to be encountered upon the road are
a few peasants with loads of fruit or vegetables, and an occasional charcoal-burner bearing
his grimy burden to the town below. The carbonaio with his blackened face and queer outlandish
garments is a familiar figure throughout all parts of Southern Italy. He belongs to a race
apart, that dwells in the belt of forest land clothing the higher hills, and he only descends
to the cities of the shore and the plain in order to sell his goods. He is despised by the
sharper-witted townsman, who beats down his prices for the combustibles he has borne with such
fatigue from his distant mountain home. Sometimes the old people are despatched to do the money
bargaining, the selling and buying. Look at the old couple at this moment passing us; an aged
man and woman that Theocritus might have known in earlier days when the world was less civilized
and less greedy of gain. With bare travel-stained feet, with feeble frames supported by long
staves and with the heavy sacks of charcoal on their bent backs, the modern Baucis and Philemon
crawl along the white road beneath a broiling sun, patient and uncomplaining, and apparently
with no feelings of envy as they cast one careless glance at our carriage. Weary and foot-sore,
they will only obtain a few quattrini in the town for all their toil and trouble, and then
they must retrace every step up the long hill-side, with their little stock of provisions to
help eke out a miserable existence. Yet can any life in such a climate and amid such surroundings
be truly accounted miserable, we ask, no matter how humble the dwelling or frugal the fare?

As our carriage creeps slowly upward, we find the land less cultivated, and now and again we
pass tracts of woodland whence little purling streams fall over rocky ledges on to the roadway.
We catch sight of small clumps of cyclamen, and in the shady hollows we detect tufts of the
maiden-hair fern—Capilli di Venere, “Venus’ tresses,” as the Italians sometimes call this graceful
little plant. At a curve of the road we are confronted by a smiling old peasant with gold rings
in his ears, who in the expectation of forestieri coming this way has been patiently sitting
for hours on a boulder. Doffing his battered hat and putting a sunburnt hand to his mouth,
the old fellow in a deep musical bass wakens all the sleeping echoes that lie in the many folds
of the valley, so that we hear the words of welcome repeated again and again, growing fainter
and fainter as the sound of the voice travels from cliff to cliff. The performer is delighted
with a few soldi, and the jaded scarecrow of a horse seems pleased with his momentary halt.
Iterum altiora petimus; by degrees we reach the airy platform upon which Ravello stands, and
finally alight at the comfortable old inn so long associated with the excellent family of Palumbo.

Ravello undoubtedly owes its early foundation to certain patrician families of Amalfi, which
after securing their fortunes decided to leave the hot close city beside the shore, and to
seek new homes in the bracing air of the hill-top above. Placing itself under the protection
of the powerful Robert Guiscard, Ravello became faithfully attached to the Norman interest,
and in 1086, at the suggestion of the great Count Roger, who cherished a deep regard for the
Rufolo family, the town was created a bishopric by Pope Victor III. As a subject city of the
Norman princes, Ravello was during this period at the zenith of its fame and importance. Its
actual population is unknown at this distant day, but we learn that under Count Roger the large
area of the city was entirely girdled by strong walls set with towers; that it contained thirteen
churches, four monasteries, many public buildings, and a large number of private palaces. Its
cathedral was founded in honour of Saint Pantaleone by Niccolò Rufolo, Duke of Sora and Grand
Admiral of Sicily, the head of the powerful family whose name is still gratefully remembered
in this half-deserted town. In 1156 Ravello was honoured by a state visit from Pope Adrian
IV.—the English monk, Nicholas Breakspear, the only Briton who ever succeeded in gaining the
papal tiara and who gave the lordship of Ireland to Henry Plantagenet—and during his stay the
Pontiff was entertained as the guest of the all-powerful Rufoli. Born of humble parents in
the village of Bensington, near Oxford, Nicholas Breakspear became a monk at St Alban’s, and
having once entered the religious life, he rose by sheer force of intellect and an iron strength
of will to the attainment of the highest honour the Church could bestow. It was in the hey-day
of his power that the English pope entered Ravello and sang Mass in the Cathedral in the presence
of all the noble citizens of the place, for in the previous year he had crushed for ever the
dangerous heresy of Arnold of Brescia, by boldly sentencing that ardent reformer to be burnt
at the stake in Rome and his ashes cast into the Tiber. The Pontiff during his visit sojourned
in the Palazzo Rufolo, the beautiful Saracenic building that is still standing intact after
so many centuries, and by a curious coincidence is now the property of the well-known English
family of Reid. Nor was Pope Adrian the only sovereign who honoured Ravello by his presence,
for Charles of Anjou, brother of St Louis of France and the murderer of poor Conradin, and
King Robert the Wise also received the hospitality of the Rufolo family within these walls.
The whole existing town in fact is eloquent of the long extinct but by no means forgotten Rufoli,
who may fairly be reckoned among the more enlightened of the petty tyrants of medieval Italy.
That their name was still familiar in Italian society in the fourteenth century is evident
from the circumstances that Boccaccio puts a story, no doubt founded on fact, into the mouth
of the fair Lauretta, which deals with the adventures of one Landolfo Rufolo of Ravello, “who,
not content with his great store, but anxious to make it double, was near losing all he had,
and his life also.” The novel proceeds to relate how this member of a wealthy and respected
family turned corsair, after losing all his capital in a mercantile speculation in Cyprus;
how he, in his turn, was robbed of his ill-gotten gains on the high seas by some thievish merchants
of Genoa; and how Landolfo, after passing through a variety of more or less improbable adventures,
was finally rescued from drowning off the coast of Corfu by a servant-maid who, whilst washing
dishes by the sea-shore, chanced to espy the unconscious merchant drifting towards the beach
with his arms clasped round a small wooden chest, which kept him afloat. “Moved by compassion,”
says the relator of the tale, “she stepped a little way into the sea, which was now calm, and
seizing the half-drowned wretch by the hair of his head, drew both him and the chest to land,
where with much trouble she unfolded his arms from the chest, which she set upon the head of
her daughter who was with her. She herself carried Landolfo like a little child to the town,
put him on a stove, and chafed and washed him with warm water, by which means the vital heat
began to return, and his strength partially revived. In due time she took him from the stove,
comforted him with wine and good cordials, and kept him some days till he knew where he was;
she then restored him his chest, and told him he might now provide for his departure.”(6) Of
course the little chest that Landolfo had clutched by chance in his agony of drowning eventually
turned out to be filled with precious stones, which by a miracle—and miracles were common enough
in the days of the Decameron—not only floated of itself but also supported the weight of Master
Landolfo. In any case, the rescued merchant, with the greed and ingratitude which are often
accounted for sharpness and wit, presented his kind hostess with the empty trunk, whilst he
concealed the gems in a belt upon his own person. Equipped with these jewels, he made his way
across the Adriatic to the Apulian coast, and thence reached Ravello with greater wealth than
he had ever hoped to obtain with his original capital at the time he set sail for Cyprus.

Fortunately Ravello, though shrunk to such modest proportions nowadays, still possesses many
memorials of its glorious past. Travellers will of course turn their steps towards the Duomo,
with its yellow baroque façade abutting on the little piazza that, with its daisy-starred turf
and old acacia trees, forms so pleasant a play-ground for the merry dark-eyed children of the
place. The cathedral of St Pantaleone is—or rather was—one of the most interesting and richly
decorated churches erected in Southern Italy under the combined influence of Norman and Saracenic
art at a time when cunning workmen were able to blend together the styles of East and West,
and to produce that rich harmonious architecture of which the splendid churches of Monreale
and Palermo present to us the happiest examples. There still exist intact the magnificent bronze
doors with their fifty-four panels of sculpture in relief, the gift of Sergio Muscettola and
his wife, Sigilgaita Rufolo, and the work of the Italian artist Barisanus of Trani, who likewise
designed and cast the portals of the cathedrals of his native town and of Monreale. But alas!
the interior of the building, that was once rich with mosaic and fresco and fanciful carving,
has been converted into one of those dull soulless caverns of stucco that the wanderer in all
parts of Italy meets with only too frequently. This deplorable act of vandalism at Ravello
dates of course from the eighteenth century, and appears to have been the work of a bishop
named Tafuri, who in his frenzied eagerness to possess a cathedral worthy of comparison with
the fashionable atrocities in plaster then being erected at Naples, did not hesitate to destroy
wholesale almost all the ancient and elaborate ornamentation of his Duomo. His architect—perhaps
the miserable Fuga, who ruined the interior of the Cathedral at Palermo, who knows?—dug up
the fine old pavement, tore out the mosaics and had them carted away, effaced the frescoes,
and at last transformed the venerable building with its memories of popes and princes into
a commonplace white-washed chamber. Why this wretched prelate stayed his hand at the pulpit,
it is difficult to say: perhaps he was meanwhile translated for his private virtues, perhaps
Death overtook him in the work of destruction; at any rate, the famous pulpit of Ravello mercifully
escaped the general onslaught, though it must have been by fortunate accident and not by design
that Monsignore Tafuri omitted to remove this unique specimen of a style of architecture, which
doubtless he considered barbaric and un-Christian in its character. For this pulpit is one
of the finest examples of the ornate, if somewhat bizarre art of the thirteenth century, and
belongs to a type of work that is not unfrequently met with throughout Italy. Six spiral columns,
springing from the backs of crouched lions, support the rostrum of marble inlaid with beautiful
mosaics; whilst above the arch of the stair-way of ascent stands the famous portrait, usually
called that of Sigilgaita Rufolo, wife of the founder of the Cathedral. The striking face,
which is surmounted by an elaborate diadem with two pendent lappets, is evidently an excellent
likeness of the original; yet there can be no doubt that this interesting bust has been wrongly
named, since the pulpit itself, as a Latin inscription duly records, was erected in the year
1272 by Niccolò Rufolo, a descendant of the famous Grand Admiral, so that we may fairly conclude
that the portrait represents the wife, or perhaps sister or daughter, of the donor. But popular
tradition dies hard; and the name of Sigilgaita will probably cling for ever to the female
face which has for over six centuries looked calmly down upon generation after generation of
worshippers. Perhaps those severe proud features may have impressed the ignorant Vandal-Bishop
as that of some unknown Saint, whom it might be dangerous to offend, and may thereby have saved
the pulpit of Niccolò Rufolo from the destruction that must have seemed inevitable. Be that
as it may, the bust has survived uninjured, which, apart from the feeling of sentiment, is
particularly fortunate, for it belongs to a small class of artistic work, of which existing
specimens are rare and highly prized. For there must have been a local and premature Renaissance
in this part of Italy during the thirteenth century, otherwise a statue so imbued with true
classical feeling and so correct in technical finish as that of Sigilgaita in Ravello Cathedral
could never have been produced; yet the names of the artist or artists who thus anticipated
the great plastic revival remain undiscovered. Portrait-busts, similar in treatment and idea
to that of the so-called Sigilgaita, are to be found here and there in museums, but this effigy
in remote Ravello remains unique amidst its original surroundings.

Turning aside from Sigilgaita’s steady gaze and making the round of the bleak white-washed
building, our eyes are suddenly attracted by a fine picture, in the manner of Domenichino,
representing the martyrdom of Pantaleone, the popular Amalfitan Saint to whom this church was
dedicated by the Rufolo family.

The cult of this Asiatic martyr in Amalfi is of course another legacy of the Republic’s close
connection with the Levant, whence some relic-hunting admiral or merchant of the state reverently
brought Pantaleone’s bones to the Italian coast. As the veneration of this Saint still exists
so deep-seated that his Hellenic name is frequently bestowed on children at baptism, it may
not be deemed amiss to give a very brief account of this eastern Martyr, who is so closely
associated with Amalfitan, and later with Venetian life. Pantaleone was born at Nicomedia,
in Bithynia, the son of a Pagan father and a Christian mother. Well educated by his parents,
he became a physician, and on account of his skill, his learning, his graceful manners and
his handsome face, was finally selected to attend the person of the Emperor Maximian. At the
Imperial Court the young doctor, who had meantime neglected the faith of his mother, was recalled
to a true sense of Christian duty by the precepts of an old priest named Hermolaus. Pantaleone
now began to heal the sick and to preach the Gospel, and even at times to perform miracles.
Information as to his conduct having reached the Emperor’s ears, Maximian gave the young physician
the choice of renouncing Christianity or of suffering death, whereat Pantaleone boldly declared
he would rather die than apostatize. Thereupon the Saint, together with the Christian priest
Hermolaus, was bound to an olive tree and beheaded with a sword. The story of his martyrdom
has been frequently treated in Venetian art, for as an eastern Saint Pantaleone has a church
dedicated to him in Venice, wherein the brush of Paul Veronese has painted in glowing colours
the chief incidents of his life and death. As in the case of other physician-saints of the
Roman Church—St Roch, St Cosmo and St Damiano—Pantaleone was especially besought in cases of
the plague, which owing to the intercommunication between Amalfi and the Orient, frequently
ravaged the towns of this coast.

From the Cathedral we proceeded to visit the quaint little church of Santa Maria del Gradillo,
that with its oriental-looking towers and cupolas affords a pleasing example of the mixed Lombard
and Saracenic style which was in vogue in the years when the house of Hohenstaufen were masters
of Southern Italy. We found little that was worth seeing inside the building, except the pretty
black-eyed daughter of the toothless tottering old sacristan, who slunk off grumbling on his
child’s appearance, leaving her to do the honours of the place. Her merry face with its welcoming
smile and her modest loquacity excited our interest, and in answer to our questions we gathered
that she was twenty years old, and was still unmarried, not for lack of opportunity, she naïvely
told us, but because she was unwilling to leave her old parents, who had no one in the world
but herself to attend to them. Coming to the door of the church, Angela (for that was her name)
pointed out her home, a little white-washed cottage with a heavily barred window over-hanging
the grass-grown lane. We wished our pleasant companion a warm good-bye, or rather a riverderla,
at the entrance of the dwelling, where through the open doorway we could espy a small sun-smitten
courtyard tenanted by a wizened old woman sitting in the shade of an orange tree, by three
cats, and by a large family of skinny hens. On a low wall we noted some shallow earthenware
pans filled with carnation plants, whose red and yellow heads were clearly silhouetted against
the blue sky over head. Perhaps Angela’s life, we thought, is after all happier thus spent
in the tending of her parents, her poultry and her garden, than if joined to that of some swarthy
rascal of the beach below or dull peasant of the hillside. Long may the old people survive
to keep their guardian Angel from the mingled sorrows and joys of matrimony!

  “Tenete l’uocchie de miricula nere;
  Che ffa la vostra matre che n’n de’ marite?
  La vostra matre n’a de’ marito’ apposte
  Pe’ ne’ lleva’ son fior, a la fenestre.”

  (“Your eyes are marvellously black and bright!
  How is it that your mother does not wed you?
  She will not wed you, not to lose her light—
  Not to remove the flower that decks her window!”)

The well-known hotel kept by Madame Palumbo, who is thoroughly conversant with English ways
and requirements, occupies a delightful position in the old aristocratic quarter of Ravello
known as “Il Toro,” the name of which is still retained in the interesting little church of
San Giovanni del Toro close by. This comfortable hostelry has been constructed out of the Vescovado,
the ancient episcopal residence, and it still retains many curious and attractive features
of the original building, notably the quaint little stair-way that descends from the bishop’s
private chamber into the chapel, which is now the salon of the hotel. With its magnificent
views, its interesting buildings and its pure exhilarating air, Ravello would seem to be an
ideal spot wherein to linger, and it affords a most agreeable change in the later Spring months
from the close atmosphere and enervating heat of Amalfi or the coast towns. Perched on this
breezy hill-top, from the terrace of the hotel can be observed the whole circuit of the Bay
of Salerno, whilst behind to the north and east the ring of enclosing mountains rises sharp
and distinct against the sky. From this point we are presented with a complete view of the
territories of the ancient Republic, spread out like a map beneath our feet and stretching
from the Punta della Campanella to the heights above Vietri, and backed by the arid grey mountain
peaks. If the garden of the Hotel Palumbo seems a fitting place wherein to idle or to dream,
might not it also appeal to some historian, not tied to time nor to the hard necessity of money-making,
as a suitable spot for the conception of a history of the origin, rise, decline and fall of
the great maritime Republic, whose dominions, still smiling and populous, surround Ravello
on all sides? Gibbon found the first suggestion for his Roman History whilst musing upon the
ruins of the Capitol, and he finished his great work in a Swiss garden amidst the scent of
acacia bloom; might not the annals of the Amalfitan Republic likewise spring from reflections
made upon this terrace, where the memories of a former greatness still beautiful in its decay
must operate so powerfully? Well, perhaps some future Gibbon—or more probably some budding
Mommsen—may in time present the world with a true impartial and erudite history of the Costiera
d’Amalfi.

We bask lazily in the afternoon sunshine, to the soft, rather soporific cooing of some caged
doves, that live in the back-ground out of sight behind a screen of lemon trees in huge red
jars, such as Morgiana must have been familiar with. Beyond the terrace wall we note the carefully
tended vines, precious plants, for their grapes produce the delicate Episcopio wine, perhaps
the choicest vintage to be obtained around Naples, and boasting a flavour and bouquet that
are rarely to be encountered except in the products of the most celebrated vineyards of France
or Germany. Opposite to us towers the huge form of the mountain of the Avvocata, upon whose
slopes centuries ago the Madonna herself appeared in a flood of glory to an ignorant but pious
shepherd lad, promising the startled youth to become his mediator, the avvocata of his simple
prayers. The story must be true, say the peasants, for there on the hillside can still be seen
the ruins of the shrine that the wondering and grateful villagers raised upon the very site
of the apparition in honour of their celestial visitor. But the whole country-side teems with
interesting and often beautiful legends and traditions, handed down by generations of the simple
hardy folk who toil for their daily bread amidst the vineyards and olive groves that clothe
the sun-baked slopes descending to the shore.

The intervening distance is not great between Ravello and La Scala, which surmounts the opposite
ridge of the valley of the Dragone, whence good walkers can easily descend by the ancient mule
track that leads down direct to Amalfi by way of Scaletta. Like its neighbour and historic
rival across the valley, the annals and fortunes of Scala are closely interwoven with those
of Amalfi; and it was during the palmy days of the Republic that this daughter-town reached
its height of prosperity. Although the tradition that once Scala possessed a hundred towers
upon its walls and a hundred and thirty churches is obviously exaggerated, yet it must have
been a place of importance even as early as 987, when Pope John XVI raised it to the rank of
a bishopric, an honour which did not fall to Ravello until many years later. Early in the twelfth
century Scala was pillaged by the Pisans, but some years afterwards, when the mother city tamely
submitted to the demands of these Tuscan invaders without the smallest effort at self-defence,
the higher-spirited mountaineers of La Scala manned their walls with skill and vigour, though
without avail. The hill-set city was ultimately carried by storm, and so thoroughly did the
enraged Pisans wreak their vengeance upon the place that Scala never again rose to fame or
eminence, but henceforward dwindled in wealth and size until it finally sank to the condition
of a large village, whilst Clement VIII offered an additional indignity to the city in its
dotage by depriving it of episcopal rank. But though the citizens of modern Scala no longer
possess a bishop in their midst, they are still the proud possessors and jealous guardians
of the magnificent mitre presented by Charles of Anjou, who was greatly pleased by the men
and money that this ancient town sent to aid his brother, St Louis of France, in his Crusade.
Some sculptured tombs, one of them a monument in honour of Marinella Rufolo of Ravello, who
was married to a Coppola of Scala, remain in the churches to interest the curious traveller,
but most visitors will find the principal charm of this dilapidated little city in its lofty
striking situation beneath the frowning mass of Monte Cerrato.

But the sunset has come and gone, and the last tints of its rose-pink glow are rapidly disappearing
from the serrated line of mountain tops against their background of daffodil sky. Stars are
beginning to peep in the firmament, and yellow lights, the stars of earth, are springing up
fast in the town below, and even appearing at rare intervals of space amongst the cottages
of the woody hillside, or upon the fishing boats that lie on the bosom of the Bay, now turning
to a deep purple under the advancing shadows of night. A cheerful concert of unseen insects
greets our ears as we descend rapidly towards Atrani, whilst the goatbells amid the distant
pastures tinkle pleasantly from time to time. We soon exchange the dewy freshness of evening
in the country for the heavy air, thick with dust, that hangs over the coast road, and in a
few moments more find ourselves at the foot of the rock-cut staircase that leads to our convent
inn.

                               * * * * * *

But our days upon the beautiful Costiera d’Amalfi are at an end, and the moment has at last
come for us to bid farewell to these enchanted scenes and to the ancient city slumbering peacefully
in its rocky valley by the shore. Our rows upon the glassy waters of the Bay, our scrambles
up the wild scrub-covered hillsides above the town, our evening walks along the broad high-road
to catch the fleeting glories of the sun-set,—all are ended; the day, the hour of departure
has actually arrived.

Casting a longing look behind we quit Amalfi in the cool of the evening, in order to cover
the eight intervening miles of coast road that lie between us and Salerno. We pass Atrani,
with its tall parti-coloured tower, and proceed towards our destination with the smooth plain
of waters below us and the fertile slopes above our heads, and thus we quickly gain Minori,
another of the busy little settlements that once helped to make up the collected might of the
old Republic. We meet with bare-footed sun-embrowned peasants, in their suits of blue linen
and broad shady straw hats; lean sinewy figures, returning from a long day’s work in the fragrant
orange groves by which the town is surrounded. We meet also, alas! with the usual crowd of
beggars, the halt, the maimed, and the pseudo-blind, who are quickly left behind; nevertheless
the naughty picturesque half-naked children, loudly screaming for soldi, caper in the dust
alongside our carriage, until these little pests are out-stripped, but only to give way to
other imps, equally naughty and unclothed, from Majori. Majori, nestling by the seashore amidst
the enfolding mountains, appears to us a second Amalfi, with its crowded beach and brightly
coloured boats, with its paper and maccaroni mills, huddled into the narrow ravine of the Senna,
which cuts the town in half ere it empties itself into the Bay. Overhead the huge ruined castle
of San Niccolò looms distinct against the rose-flushed evening sky, crouching like some decrepit
old giant above the little city which he so oppressed in the bad old days when Sanseverini
and Colonna carried on a perpetual selfish strife that allowed their humble neighbours no repose.
Beautiful as is Majori, it is no lovelier than many another spot upon this exquisite coast;
it is but as one pearl in a well-matched necklace, for the country that lies between Amalfi
and Salerno is fully as rich in historical interest and natural charm as is the western portion
that we have just traversed. Behind Majori we behold Monte Falerio, with its rocky summit tipped
with the glow of evening and its base in purple shadow, descending abruptly into the darkening
waters of the Bay. Slanting down to the surf-fringed beach, the great mountain seem to bar
our further progress, but with a guttural imprecation and a loud cracking of the whip, our
coachman deftly guides his half-starved but cunning little horses round the sharp corner of
the mountain spur known as the Capo del’ Orso, and in a trice Amalfi, whither we have been
straining our eyes, is snatched from our vision; a few minutes later, and we have rounded the
Capo del Tumulo, with its memories of the great Genoese admiral, Filippino Doria, who in the
treacherous currents that circle round this Cape, destroyed the Spanish fleet of the Emperor
Charles V. Already the sun has dipped below the horizon, and the calm expanse of the Tyrrhene
has lost the last reflected ray; forward our driver urges his horses in the fast-fading light.
The Angelus rings out from half a score of belfries beside the seashore and on the hillside,
breaking the stillness of the gloaming with musical reverberations. Sunset and evening star,
twilight and evening bell; how exquisite is the fall of night upon the shores of the Bay of
Salerno! We pass the fishing village of Cetara, and in so doing we pass by the willing strength
of imagination out of the dominion of the ancient Republic of Amalfi into the Principality
of Salerno. Onward we press, and it is not long before a shrill familiar sound bursts upon
our ears, a sound that quickly tears the gossamer threads of a fancy revelling in the thoughts
of long-extinct principalities and powers. It is the whistle of a railway-engine descending
the slope from Vietri above us down to Salerno; it is the neighing of the iron horse that has
not yet pranced along the unconquered Costiera d’Amalfi, nor befouled its crystal-clear air
with his smoky breath. For at Vietri we re-enter the every-day world, and leave behind us the
sea-girt fairy-land; Vietri, not Cetara, is the true frontier town to-day. But the lights of
Salerno are drawing nearer and nearer, and in a few moments of time we are tearing along the
broad lamp-lit Marina of the town, in the middle of which our driver pulls up suddenly at the
entrance of that old-fashioned comfortable inn, the Albergo d’Inghilterra:

  “Another day has told its feverish story,
  Another night has brought its promised rest.”

                               CHAPTER VIII

                   SALERNO AND THE HOUSE OF HAUTEVILLE

Backed by gentle slopes well wooded and well tilled, and screened from the northern blasts
by its guarding amphitheatre of grey crags, Salerno occupies a delightful position upon the
Bay to which it gives its own name. The long stretch of its Marina, tolerably clean to the
eye if not at all points agreeable to the nostrils, follows the broad curve of the strand,
and an idle hour or so may pleasantly be whiled away in watching the fishing craft moored beside
the mole and the attendant sailors. At the northern end of this promenade, in what constitutes
the most fashionable quarter of the place, is a tiny garden with palms and daturas, whilst
hard by stands a large theatre, evidences of the gentility of modern Salerno. But the whole
town appears sleepy and dead-alive to a stranger, though at the sunset hour a band occasionally
plays in this open space, the music attracting hither a crowd composed of all the divers elements
of society in the quiet old city. Yet though not possessing any great attractions for a sojourn
in itself, Salerno makes an excellent centre whence to explore the neighbourhood, for it lies
within easy reach of the great Benedictine Abbey of Santa Trinità; of beautiful La Cava, “that
Alpine valley under an Italian sky”; of Nocera, with its ancient cathedral that was once a
pagan temple; and last, but very far from least, of that glorious group of temples at Paestum.
It has tolerable hotels, and if only their padroni could be brought to realise that a flavouring
of rosemary and garlic in every dish is not appreciated by the palates of the forestieri, the
fare provided would be excellent. As in all Italian cities, northern or southern, however,
the nocturnal noise is prodigious. Shouting and shrieking, quarrelling and yelling rend the
air at all hours, whilst the practice of serenading, more agreeable in romantic poetry than
in everyday life, is here carried to excess, and the twanging of the mandoline and the throaty
voices of ardent lovers are rarely silent o’ nights in the dark narrow streets of Salerno.

  “A lu scur’ vagi cercann’
  La bella mia addo è?
  Mo m’annascunn’ po’ fann’ dispera’,
      I mor’, I mor’ pe’ te,
      Ripos’ cchiù ne ho!”

  (“In favouring dusk I wandering go,
      My fair, where shall I find her?
  Now she attracts, now drives me wild;
      I die, I die for her;
      Repose no more have I.”)

Behind the long line of lofty well-built houses facing the Bay, the streets are gloomy, narrow
and crooked, a labyrinth of dark mysterious lanes that contain no palaces or churches of note,
and but few artistic “bits” to catch the eye and delight the soul of a painter. As in the case
of Amalfi, the Cathedral of San Matteo at Salerno is almost the sole monument left standing
of a past that is peculiarly rich in historical associations. Ever since the accession of the
Angevin kings Salerno has remained a quiet provincial town, neither rich nor poor, but stagnant
and without commerce. Into its harbour, which Norman and Suabian princes attempted to improve,
the sand has long since silted, and Naples for many centuries past has been able to regard
with serene contempt the city that it was once intended to make her commercial rival:

  “Se Salerno avesse un porto,
  Napoli sarebbe morto.”

Well, Naples owns an excellent harbour, and has in consequence grown into one of the largest
sea-ports on the shores of the Mediterranean, whilst little Salerno can only afford anchorage
for fishing boats.

The chief interest of the place centres in its close connection with the great Norman house
of Hauteville, and especially with Robert Guiscard, Duke of Apulia and Calabria, who after
a fierce struggle managed to capture this city from the Lombard princes. Sprung from a hardy
race of valvassors or bannerets in Normandy, Duke Robert was one of the twelve sons of Tancred
of Hauteville in the bishopric of Coutances. Joining his elder half-brother William Bras-de-Fer
in Italy, Robert at once began to make a remarkable display of soldierly and statesman-like
qualities. An adventurer pure and simple in an alien land, this sharp-witted Norman in course
of time obtained the nick-name of Guiscard, or the Wiseacre, and on the death of his elder
brother he was nominated Count of Apulia by acclamation of the Norman followers, to the exclusion
of his helpless young nephews. Robert Guiscard’s appearance and character have been sketched
for us with loving care by one of the most famous of the world’s historians, who was fully
able to appreciate the mingled force and cunning, the suaviter in modo and the fortiter in
re, of this leader of a handful of Normans in a hostile and distant country. Beginning with
the conquest of the Duchy of Benevento, Guiscard at once laid siege to Salerno, taking it after
an obstinate resistance lasting over eight months, during which he was himself severely wounded
by a splinter from one of his own engines of war. The city captured with such difficulty now
became the victor’s favourite residence and the recipient of his bounty and enlightened rule,
so that Salerno quickly rose to the rank of one of the most illustrious towns in Europe, supplanting
even its magnificent neighbour Amalfi in popular esteem.

  “Urbs Latii non est hâc delitiosior urbe,
  Frugibus arboribus vino redundat; et unde
  Non tibi poma nuces, non pulchra palatia desunt,
  Non species muliebris abest probitasque virorum.”

  (“All Latium shows no more delightful place,
  Whose sunny slopes the vine and almond grace;
  ’Midst fruitful groves her palaces uprear,
  Her men are virtuous, and her women fair.”)

It was under the Guiscard’s auspices that the famous school of Medicine that had long been
seated at Salerno rose to its highest point of excellence. “Paris for learning, Bologna for
law, Orleans for poetry, and Salerno for Medicine”;—such was the verdict of the age. With the
somewhat grudging consent of the clergy, the hygienic skill of the dreaded Arabs was in this
city permitted to temper the crass ignorance of medieval Italy, and at Salerno alone were the
works of the infidel Avicenna and of the pagans Galen and Hippocrates openly studied. The result
was that the fame of the doctors of this Fons Medicinae spread over all Western Europe, so
that distinguished patients either came hither to be treated in person or else sent emissaries
to explain their symptoms and to obtain advice. Nor were the professors of the healing art
at Salerno tied down by a strict adherence to drugs and boluses, for they fully realised that
the height of all human ambition, the mens sana in corpore sano, is in any case more easily
to be obtained by self-control than by all the ingredients of the pharmacopoeia. They were
warm believers apparently in the doctrine of moderation in all things, which after all is one
of the most valuable prescriptions of modern hygiene:

  “Curas tolle graves, irasci crede profanum,
  Parce mero, coenato parum, non sit tibi vanum,
  Surgere post epulas, somnum fuge meridianum.”

  (“Throw off dull care; thine angry moods restrain;
  Eschew the wine-cup; lightly eat, nor vain
  Deem our advice to make Enough thy feast.
  Take exercise, and shun the noon-day rest.”)

Such was the oracular reply of the Salernitan sages to Robert, Duke of Normandy, and no one
can dispute the sound common sense of the prescription given, nor doubt that it is applicable
to half the patients who to-day throng the consulting rooms of fashionable London physicians.

But to return to Robert Guiscard, who shares the historical honours of the place, together
with the great Pope Gregory VII., of whom we shall speak presently. After subduing the southern
half of Italy and the island of Sicily, the great Duke next turned his victorious arms against
the Eastern Empire, with the secret intention, it was suspected, of ascending the throne of
Constantine. With the pseudo-Emperor Michael in his train, the Great Adventurer in 1081 assembled
a vast army at Otranto, consisting of 30,000 Italian subjects and of 1300 Norman knights, with
the object of crossing over to Epirus. Durazzo on the opposite Albanian coast, the Dyrrachium
of the ancients, a city that was henceforth destined to be closely associated with succeeding
dynasties of South Italy, was the objective of this gigantic expedition, for it was commonly
reported to be the key of the Eastern Empire. Thither the flotilla set sail, but before reaching
the Greek shore, an unexpected and unseasonable tempest scattered Guiscard’s argosy, destroying
many of the ships and drowning many crews. Nevertheless, the undaunted spirit and endless resources
of the Norman Duke rose superior to all misfortunes. Landing with the remnant of his army he
at once laid siege to Durazzo, despite the fact that the Emperor Alexius was marching to its
relief, and that the Venetian fleet was already anchored in its harbour. In spite of overwhelming
odds, Guiscard utterly routed the Byzantine army. With his heir Bohemond and his wife Sigilgaita
beside him, the Duke watched the progress of the battle, and at its most critical juncture,
at a moment when it appeared inevitable that the hard-pressed Italian army must yield to the
sheer numbers of the foe, the deep voice of the leader could be heard booming like a deep-toned
bell over the battlefield, as he addressed his wavering troops. “Whither do ye fly? Your enemy
is implacable, and death is less grievous than slavery!” Joined with the hoarse voice of Guiscard,
the Norman warriors could distinguish the exhortations of the Amazon-like Sigilgaita, “a second
Pallas, less skilful in arts, but no less terrible in arms than the Athenian goddess.” Rallying
at the words of their master and shamed by the martial ardour of the Duchess, the invading
troops made one last desperate effort, whereby the Imperial army was driven back and scattered,
so that Alexius barely escaped with his life. Having routed the Emperor in fair fight, Guiscard
now made use of his unparalleled cunning by bribing the treacherous Venetians, who eventually
assisted the Italian forces to enter the city gates, and thus Durazzo was gained at the point
of the sword after one of the fiercest sieges known to history. Scarcely had the beleaguered
town been reduced, than the indomitable Guiscard found himself compelled to return to Italy,
where the Emperor of the West, the unhappy Henry IV., vainly endeavouring to wipe out the humiliation
of Canossa, had seized Rome and was actually besieging the great Hildebrand in the Castle of
Sant’ Angelo. Leaving his son Bohemond in command of the army in Macedonia, Robert recrossed
the sea, and hastened with a handful of men towards Rome. But so intense a fear did the victor
of Durazzo inspire, that the terrified Emperor without waiting to give combat fled headlong
together with his anti-pope from the Holy City, where Guiscard was received with acclamation.
So infuriated were the Romans by the behaviour of the infidels, that the prudent Gregory deemed
it wiser to return to Salerno together with his deliverer, and it was in Guiscard’s palace
that the famous “Caesar of spiritual conquest” expired three years later. As to the Great Adventurer
himself, he died in the island of Cephalonia in the very year of the Pope’s death at Salerno
(1085) and was buried beside his first wife, the gentle Alberada, at Venosa in Apulia, though
the city which he had always loved and favoured would seem to have offered a more appropriate
spot for his interment.

But although the mortal remains of the Great Adventurer do not rest within the precincts of
his beloved city, an undying monument of his glorious but turbulent reign is to be found in
the Cathedral, which despite the neglect and alterations of eight centuries may still be ranked
as one of the most interesting buildings in Southern Italy. Standing in a secluded part of
the town, this magnificent church gains nothing from its position, for it can only be reached
by means of tortuous dingy lanes, and even on a near approach the effect produced on the visitor
is not impressive. “The Cathedral-church of San Matteo,” says the Scotch traveller, Joseph
Forsyth, in quaint pedantic language, “is a pile so antique and so modern, so repaired and
rhapsodic, that it exhibits patches of every style, and is of no style itself.” But is not
this quality, we ask, exactly what a great historic building, such as Guiscard’s church, truly
demands? Ought not it to bear the impress of the various ages it has survived, and of the many
famous persons who have contributed to its embellishment? From Duke Robert’s day to the present
time, the Cathedral is an epitome of the history of Salerno, a sermon in stones concerning
the great past and the inglorious present of the city.

In the year preceding his own death and that of the great Pontiff, who was tarrying at Salerno
as his not over-willing guest, Duke Robert erected this Cathedral, obtaining the chief ornaments
for his new structure and also its most important relic, the supposed body of the Apostle St
Matthew, from the lately deserted city of Paestum across the bay. The church is approached
by means of a quadrangular fore-court, a cloister supported on antique columns, such as can
still be observed in a few of the old Roman churches, so that we venture to think that this
idea at Salerno was suggested by the great Pope himself. A number of sculptured sarcophagi,
which, like the pillars, were the spoils of Paestum, are ranged alongside the entrance walls;
and once upon a time there stood in the centre of the courtyard the huge granite basin that
all visitors to Naples will recall as set in the middle of the Villa Reale, where it performs
the humble office of decorating a miniature pond, wherein lily-white ducks quack and gobble
at the bread crumbs thrown to them by children and their nurses. Fancy the irate disgust of
Duke Robert at waking to learn that the antique fountain for his new Cathedral, brought with
such care and toil from distant Poseidonia, should have been transported to the rival city
and turned to such base uses! Above the splendid bronze doors, the gift of Landolfo Butomilea
and his wife shortly after Guiscard’s death, we perceive the dedication of the church to the
Apostle Matthew by the proud conqueror of the Two Sicilies and the protector of Hildebrand.

  “A Duce Roberto donaris Apostole templo:
  Pro meritis regno donetur ipse superno.”

The donor, we note, is confident that the Apostle, in return for so glorious a fabric, will
undertake to obtain the Kingdom of Heaven for this generous client upon earth.

The interior, which is sadly marred by white-wash and gaudy decoration, is a perfect treasure-house
of works of art—antique, medieval, Renaissance—of which the guide-book will give a detailed
list. Succeeding generations have put to strange uses some of the fine marble reliefs that
Guiscard transported hither from Paestum, and we note that one archbishop has gone so far as
to filch a sarcophagus carved with a Bacchanal procession to serve for his own tomb. We might
perhaps infer that the deceased prelate was addicted to the wine-flask, and to have been a
firm believer in and follower of one of the rules of the medical school of his own diocese:

  “Si nocturna tibi noceat potatio vini,
  Hoc ter mane libas iterum, et fuerit medicina.”

  (“If a carouse at night do make thee ill,
  For morning medicine drink of wine thy fill”)

Let us hope that this extraordinary receipt for “hot coppers” was intended satirically, or
else given seriously as the only advice that a confirmed toper was likely to follow in any
case. Above the marble statue of the Caesar of the Papacy, that was tardily erected to his
memory by the unfortunate Pio Nono, appear the glittering mosaics of the apse of the chapel,
from which look down the figures of John of Procida and of King Manfred, the last sovereign
prince of the hated Suabian line that Gregory twice anathematized. Beneath the cold forbidding
eye of the last of the Hohenstaufen and his friend and avenger here rest, strangely enough,
the ashes of that “great and inflexible asserter of the supremacy of the sacerdotal order:
the monk Hildebrand, afterwards Pope Gregory the Seventh.” Born the son of a poor carpenter
in the Tuscan village of Soana, this extraordinary man rose to eminence as a monk of Cluny,
where he became famous for his extreme asceticism of life in an age of undisguised clerical
corruption and luxury, when simony, lay investiture and priestly marriages were the rule rather
than the exception on all sides, so that but few Churchmen were able to rise above their surrounding
temptations. Such few as could resist the world, the flesh and the devil were accounted, and
not unfrequently were in reality, ignorant crazy fanatics, half-pitied and half-despised. Between
these two extremes of worldly indulgence and of unreasoning severity of life, Hildebrand ever
pursued a middle course, for whilst on the one hand he eschewed the vanities of life around
him, on the other he never sank into the self-effacement of a hermit. His acknowledged purity
and zeal soon won for him from the laity a respect mingled with awe, whilst his natural talents,
his indomitable will, and his genuine piety in course of time brought all Churchmen who had
any regard for their holy office to fix their hopes upon this Clugniac monk, now a Cardinal.
For some years before his actual election to the Papal throne in 1079, Hildebrand had begun
to exercise an immense control over the councils of the Church, and he was personally responsible
for the epoch-making resolution under Nicholas II., which declared that the choice of a new
Pontiff was vested in the College of Cardinals alone. His own election, under the terms of
this new and drastic arrangement, became the signal for the fierce struggles, equally of the
battlefield and the council-chamber, that were destined to distract Italy for generations to
come. For, as might have been expected, the Emperor Henry IV., King of the Romans, was not
long in protesting against so decided an infringement of his secular claims. From the synods
of Worms and Piacenza came the Imperial decree of deposition against Gregory, which was addressed
by “Henry, not by usurpation but by God’s holy ordination, King, to Hildebrand, no longer Pope,
but false monk.” Gregory, strong alike in virtue and in resolve, and aided by the might of
the Countess Matilda of Tuscany and of Robert Guiscard, answered by pronouncing a solemn anathema
upon his secular adversary. In awe-struck silence the Council of the Lateran listened to the
Pope’s final excommunication of the King, and of all those who dared to associate themselves
with him. “I absolve,” said Gregory, “all Christians from the oaths which they have taken or
may take to him; and I decree that no one shall obey him as king; for it is fitting that he,
who has endeavoured to diminish the honour of the Church, should himself lose that honour which
he seems to have.” We all know the final act of that terrible unequal struggle, the duel of
brute force against spiritual terrors in a rude age of violence and superstition, which took
place in the courtyard of the Castle of Canossa, the Countess Matilda’s fortress in the Apennines.

“On a dreary winter morning, with the ground deep in snow, the King, the heir of a long line
of Emperors, was permitted to enter within the two outer of the three walls which girded the
Castle of Canossa. He had laid aside every mark of royalty or of distinguished station; he
was clad only in the thin white linen dress of the penitent, and there, fasting, he awaited
in humble patience the pleasure of the Pope. And yet a third day dragged on from morning till
evening over the unsheltered head of the discrowned King. Every heart was moved save that of
the representative of Jesus Christ.”

Can we wonder then that the phrase “to go to Canossa” (gehen nach Canossa) has become ingrafted
on to the German language, or that so significant an expression was openly used by Prince Bismarck
during the fierce religious struggles in the days of the “Kultur-kampf” between the newly-formed
Empire and the direct successor of the spiritual Caesar who had thus humbled a former Emperor
of Germany? It was in vain that Henry afterwards endeavoured, by making war upon his oppressor,
to undo the evil effects of his public recantation at Canossa; the act of humiliation was too
marked ever to be wiped out either by himself or by his descendants. For good or for bad, Gregory
had succeeded in rendering the Papacy free from lay control; he had gained for ever for the
Church one of her most cherished tenets, the absolute independence of the Pope’s election by
the College of Cardinals; and he had even partially reduced the Western Empire into a fief
of the Church itself. The former of Gregory’s great objects, the freedom of election, still
remains intact after an interval of more than eight hundred years; the latter attempt, though
long struggled for and apparently with success at times, has, we know, ultimately failed.

Having accomplished so much during his reign, it is strange to think that Gregory’s last days
should have been passed in a form of exile away from the Eternal City which he claimed as the
metropolis of the Universal Church. There is pathos to be found in the Pope dying at Salerno,
far removed from the scene of his ambition and success. With the bitter feeling that his name
was execrated in Rome after Guiscard’s sack, and that his host was bent upon obtaining the
imperial title from his reluctant guest, Gregory’s declining days were spent in melancholy
reflections. To the last he spoke confidently of the righteousness of his cause, and whilst
making his peace with all mankind in anticipation of his approaching end, he deliberately excepted
from his own and God’s mercy the names of his arch-enemy Henry and the anti-pope Guibert, together
with all their followers. Thus the aged Pontiff languished to his end within the walls of the
Castle of Salerno, encircled by flattering Churchmen who did their utmost to cheer their dying
champion. “I have loved justice and hated iniquity, and therefore I die in exile,” are the
famous words recorded of Hildebrand in the face of the King of Terrors. “In exile thou canst
not die!” eagerly responded an attendant priest. “Vicar of Christ and His Apostles, thou hast
received the nations for thine inheritance, and the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession.”

Perhaps the expiring Pope was cheered by these words—who can tell? In any case they were prophetic,
for the present world-wide character of the Roman Church, which embraces in its fold all nationalities
and holds its members together all the globe over in one indissoluble bond of a spiritual empire,
is largely due to the trials and exertions of one man: the monk Hildebrand, Pope Gregory the
Seventh.

Here then he sleeps his last sleep, the friend of Matilda, the mortal foe of King Henry, the
patron of William the Conqueror, the guest of Robert Guiscard:—what a galaxy of illustrious
names shines upon that dim silent chapel in the Cathedral of Salerno! Here stands in unchanging
benediction his gleaming marble effigy, calmly surveyed by King Manfred near at hand in imperial
robes, the last prince of the hated and twice banned Suabian House, whose bones were destined
to bleach in the sun and rattle in the wind by the bridge of Benevento under a Papal curse.

Before we quit the Cathedral in order to enjoy the evening sunshine, which is filling the interior
with its roseate glow, let us return for one brief moment to the northern aisle, to glance
at the grave of the Duchess who fought so boldly by her husband’s side at Durazzo. It is easy
to find, for her simple tomb stands not far from the beautiful and elaborate monument of Margaret
of Durazzo (strange coincidence!) wife of King Charles of Naples, wherein the sculptor has
portrayed angels drawing aside a curtain so as to display the sleeping form of the dead Queen
within. Close to this monument of a not unusual Renaissance type, we discover the last resting
place of Robert Guiscard’s second wife, the Duchess Sigilgaita, their son Roger Bursa and their
grandson William, in whom the direct line of the Great Adventurer became extinct. Many stories
are told by the old chroniclers of this bold intrepid princess (not always to her credit)—daughter
of the last Lombard prince Gisulf of Salerno and wife of her father’s supplanter, whose humble
Norman ancestry she affected to despise. But despite her reputation for cruelty and even for
murder, Sigilgaita was a faithful wife and a brave woman, with a character not unlike that
of our own Queen Margaret of Anjou; and it seems strange that so devoted and well mated a pair
as herself and Robert Guiscard should be separated in death, he at Venosa and she in the cathedral
of her husband’s foundation.

