"Do you think the man may recover his reason?"

"I have no hope of it. It is a case of confirmed fatuity I believe. If you like to see him
again, you shall accompany me to-morrow when I visit him. What a strange life is this, Stukely!
What a strange history may be that of this poor fellow whom Providence has cast at our door!
Well, poor wretch, we'll do the best we can for him. If we cannot reach his mind, we may improve
his body, and he will be then perhaps quite as happy as the wisest of us."

The clock struck twelve as Doctor Mayhew spoke. It startled and surprised us both. In a few
minutes we separated and retired to our several beds.

When I saw the idiot on the following day, I could perceive a marked improvement in his appearance.
The deadly pallor of his countenance had departed; and although no healthy colour had taken
its place, the living blood seemed again in motion, restoring expression to those wan and withered
features. His coal-black eye had recovered the faintest power of speculation, and the presence
of a stranger was now sufficient to call it into action. He was clean and properly attired,
and he sat--apart from his keeper--conscious of existence. There was good ground, in the absence
of all positive proof, for the supposition of the doctor. A common observer would have pronounced
him well-born at a glance. Smitten as he was, and unhinged by his sad affliction, there remained
still sufficient of the external forms to conduct to such an inference. Gracefulness still
hovered about the human ruin, discernible in the most aimless of imbecility's weak movements,
and the limbs were not those of one accustomed to the drudgery of life. A melancholy creature
truly did he look, as I gazed upon him for a second time. He had carried his chair to a corner
of the room, and there he sat, his face half-hidden, resting upon his breast, his knee drawn
up and pressed tightly by his clasped hands--those very hands, small and marble-white, forming
a ghastful contrast to the raven hair that fell thickly on his back. He had not spoken since
he rose. Indeed, since his first appearance, he had said nothing but the unintelligible word
which he had uttered four times in my presence, and which Dr. Mayhew now believed to be the
name of the lady whose portrait he wore. That he could speak was certain, and his silence was
therefore the effect of obstinacy or of absolute weakness of intellect, which forbade the smallest
mental effort. I approached him, and addressed him in accents of kindness. He raised his head
slowly, and looked piteously upon me, but in a moment again he resumed his original position.

For the space of a week I visited the afflicted man dally, remaining with him perhaps a couple
of hours at each interview. No clue had been discovered to his history, and the worthy physician
had fixed upon one day after another as that upon which he would relieve himself of his trust;
but the day arrived only to find him unwilling to keep his word. The poor object himself had
improved rapidly in personal appearance, and, as far as could be ascertained from his gestures
and indistinct expressions, was sensible of his protector's charity, and thankful for it. He
now attempted to give to his keeper the feeble aid he could afford him; he partook of his food
with less avidity, he seemed aware of what was taking place around him. On one occasion I brought
his dinner to him, and sat by whilst it was served to him. He stared at me as though he had
immediate perception of something unusual. It was on the same day that, whilst trifling with
a piece of broken glass, he cut his hand. I closed the wound with an adhesive plaster, and
bound it up. It was the remembrance of this act that gained for me the affection of the creature,
in whom all actions seemed dried up and dead. When, on the day that succeeded to this incident,
Robin, as was his custom, placed before the idiot his substantial meal, the latter turned away
from it offended, and would not taste it. I was sent for. The eyes of the imbecile glistened
when I entered the apartment, and he beckoned me to him. I sat at his side, as I had done on
the day before, and he then, with a smile of triumph, took his food on his knees, and soon
devoured it. When he had finished, and Robin had retired with the tray and implements, the
poor fellow made me draw my chair still nearer to his own. He placed his hand upon my knee
in great delight, patted it, and then the wound which I had dressed. There was perfect folly
in the mode in which he fondled this, and yet a reasonableness which the heart could not fail
to detect and contemplate with emotion. First, he gently stroked it, then placed his head upon
it in utmost tenderness, then hugged it in his arm and rocked it as a child, then kissed it
often with short quick kisses that could scarce be heard; courting my observation with every
change of action, making it apparent how much he loved, what care he could bestow, upon the
hand which had won the notice and regard of his new friend and benefactor. This over, he pointed
to his breast, dallied for a time, and then drew from it the picture which he so jealously
carried there. He pressed it between his hands, sighed heavily from his care-crazed heart,
and strove to tell his meaning in words which would not flow, in which he knew not how to breathe
the bubble-thought that danced about his brain. Closer than ever he approached me, and, with
an air which he intended for one of confidence and great regard, he invited me to look upon
his treasure. I did so, and, to my astonishment and terror--gazed upon the portrait of the
unhappy EMMA HARRINGTON. Gracious God! what thoughts came rushing into my mind! It was impossible
to err. I, who had passionately dwelt upon those lineaments in all the fondness of a devoted
love, until the form became my heart's companion by day and night--I, who had watched the teardrops
falling from those eyes, in which the limner had not failed to fix the natural sorrow that
was a part of them--watched and hung upon them in distress and agony--I, surely I, could not
mistake the faithful likeness. Who, then, was he that wore it? Who was this, now standing at
my side, to turn to whom again became immediately--sickness--horror! Who could it be but him,
the miserable parricide--the outcast--the unhappy brother--the desperately wicked son! There
was no other in the world to whom the departed penitent could be dear; and he--oh, was it difficult
to suppose that merciful Heaven, merciful to the guiltiest, had placed between his conscience
and his horrible offence a cloud that made all dim--had rendered his understanding powerless
to comprehend a crime which reason must have punished and aggravated endlessly My judgment
was prostrated by what I learned so suddenly and fearfully. The discovery had been miraculous.
What should I do? How proceed? How had the youth got here? What had been his history since
his flight? Whither was he wandering? Did he know the fate of his poor sister? How had he lived?
These questions, and others, crowded into my mind one after another, and I trembled with the
violent rapidity of thought. The figure of the unhappy girl presented itself--her words vibrated
on my ears--her last dying accents; and I felt that to me was consigned the wretched object
of her solicitude and love--that to me Providence had directed the miserable man; yes, if only
that he who had shared in the family guilt, might behold and profit by the living witness of
the household wreck. Half forgetful of the presence of the brother, and remembering nothing
well but her and her most pitiable tale, oppressed by a hundred recollections, I pronounced
her name.

"Poor, poor, much-tried Emma!" I ejaculated, gazing still upon her image. The idiot leaped
from my side at the word, and clapped his hands, and laughed and shrieked. He ran to me again,
and seized my palm, and pressed it to his lips. His excitement was unbounded. He could only
point to the picture, endeavour to repeat the word which I had spoken, and direct his finger
to my lips beseechingly, as though he prayed to hear the sound again. Alarmed already at what
I had done, and dreading the consequences of a disclosure, because ignorant of the effect it
would produce upon the idiot, I checked myself immediately, and spake no more. Robin returned.
I contrived to subdue by degrees the sudden ebullition, and having succeeded, I restored the
criminal to his keeper, and departed.

It was however, necessary that I should act in some way, possessed of the information which
had so strangely come to me. I desired to be alone to collect myself, and to determine quietly.
I retired to my bedroom, endeavoured to think composedly, and to mark out the line of duty.
It was a fruitless undertaking. My mind would rest on nothing but the tragedy in which this
miserable creature held so sad a part, and his unlooked-for resuscitation here--here, under
the roof which sheltered his sister's paramour. Whether to keep the secret hidden in my bosom,
or to communicate it to the physician, was my duty, I could not settle now. It had been a parting
injunction of my friend Thompson to sleep upon all matters of difficulty, and to avoid rashness
above all things. Alas! I had not profited by his counsel, nor, in my own case, recurred to
it, even for a moment; but it was different now. The fate, perhaps the life, of another was
involved in my decision; and not to act upon the good advice, not to be temperate and cautious,
would be sinful in the extreme. What, had she been alive, would the sister have required--entreated
at my hands? And now, if the freed spirit of the injured one looked down upon the world, what
would it expect from him to whom had been committed the forlorn and stricken wanderer? What
if not justice, charity, and mercy? "And he shall have it!" I exclaimed. "I will act on his
behalf. I will be cool and calm. I will do nothing until tomorrow, when the excitement of this
hour shall have passed away, and reason resumed its proper influence and rule."

I rose, contented with my conclusion, and walked to the window, which overlooked the pleasure-garden
of the house. Robin and his patient were there; the former sitting on a garden chair, and reposing
comfortably after his meal, heedless of the doings of his charge. The latter stood immediately
below the window, gazing upwards, with the portrait as before pressed between his marble hands.
He perceived me, and screamed in triumph and delight. The keeper started up; I vanished instantly.
He surely could not have known the situation of my room--could not have waited there and watched
for my appearance. It was impossible. Yes, I said so, and I attempted to console myself with
the assurance; but my blood curdled with a new conviction that arose and clung to me, and would
not be cast off--the certainty that, by the utterance of one word, I had, for good or ill,
linked to my future destiny the reasonless and wretched being, who stood and shrieked beneath
the casement long after I was gone.

