From these it appears that the Upper Chirima people are short in stature and sturdily built.
Both sexes wear the perineal band, the front of which is made (I am not sure whether this applies
to women as well as to men) to bulge out by padding. In some cases the men's hair is tied up
in a bunch with string, and in others it is bound up in various styles with native cloth. Some
of the men have their hair done up in small plaits over the forehead. All the above descriptions,
except that of the padding of the band, are applicable to the Mafulu. Some of the Chirima houses
have a curious apse-like roof projection over the front platform, which is a specially distinctive
feature of a Mafulu house, and one with this projection figured by Mr. Monckton is indistinguishable
from a typical Mafulu house. The Chirima people place the bodies of their dead on raised platforms,
and apparently sometimes put the body of an infant on the platform erection of an adult, but
below the latter. This also is a practice of the Mafulu; and, though the latter people confine
platform burial (if such it may be called) to chiefs and their families and important persons,
it is possible that some such limitation of the custom exists in the Chirima valley also, but
did not come under Mr. Monckton's notice. A burial platform figured by him might well be a
Mafulu burial platform, except that the curious cone-shaped receptacle for the child is a form
for which I cannot vouch as regards the Mafulu. The Chirima have a special and peculiar form
of netting, which Mr. Monckton's illustration shows to be identical with the special form of
Mafulu netting. On the other hand, as regards the Chirima weapons, implements and utensils,
a comparison of Mr. Monckton's verbal descriptions and figures with what I have seen in Mafulu,
and describe in this book, leads me to the conclusion that, though many of these are similar
to those of Mafulu, some of them are different. As examples of this I may say that the drill
implements of the Chirima people are very similar to, and their stone cloth-beaters appear
to be identical with, those used by the Mafulu; whilst on the other hand their war bows are
much longer, [13] and their method of producing fire seems to be totally different; also they
apparently have bull-roarers, which to the best of my knowledge are unknown among the Mafulu.
Again some of the Chirima weapons, as figured by Mr. Monckton, disclose ideas of artistic design,
including that of the curved line and a rude representation of a man, which I have not met
with among the Mafulu. As regards this last point I draw attention to Mr. Monckton's figures
of carving on a bow and on wooden clubs. I think, however, that in such matters as these local
differences might well arise between people who are really more or less identical, especially
if their respective districts are on opposite sides of the main mountain range of the country,
and still more so if the people of one of the districts (in the present case I refer to the
Chirima people) may perhaps have been subject to the influence of other people beyond them.
As to this latter point, however, I should say that these Chirima people seem to be, so far
as dress, ornaments, &c., are concerned, much nearer to the Mafulu than they are to the natives
of the Mambare river itself, as described by Sir William Macgregor. [14] It is curious also
that the dogs of the Chirima people are not yellow dingoes, but are black and white, as is
the case in Mafulu.

I notice that Dr. Seligmann suggests that these Chirima valley people are related to the natives
of the neighbourhood of Mt. Yule, [15] a statement which, though probably intended broadly,
is in accord with the suggestion that they are connected with the Mafulu-speaking people.

The natives of Mt. Scratchley (apparently the eastern or south-eastern side), visited by Sir
William Macgregor in 1896, appear from his description of them [16] to show a few points of
resemblance to the Mafulu people. In particular I refer to their "dark bronze" colour, to the
wearing by women of the perineal band (to which, however, is added a mantle and "in most cases"
a grass petticoat, which is not done in Mafulu), to the absence of tattooing or cicatrical
ornamentation, to their "large earrings made out of tails of lizards covered by narrow straps
of palm leaves dyed yellow" (which, though not correctly descriptive of the Mafulu earring,
is apparently something like it), to their use of pigs' tails as ear ornaments, to their plaiting
of the hair and the decoration of the plaited hair with teeth and shells, to their small charm
bags and to the shortness of their bows. Also to the construction of their houses, with the
roof carried down to the ground, with a fireplace about 2 feet wide extending down the centre
of the building from one end to the other, and having an inclined floor on each side, and especially
to the curious apse-like roof projections in front of these houses (Dr. Haddon calls them "pent
roofs" [17]), Sir William's figure of which is, like that of the Chirima villages, identical,
or nearly so, with that of a Mafulu house. But Sir William's description of the physique of
these Mt. Scratchley people and other matters make it clear, I think, that they belong to a
type different from that of the Mafulu, though they must be next door neighbours of the Fuyuge-speaking
people. Dr. Seligmann, in commenting upon this description of these people, expresses the opinion
that they are Papuo-Melanesians. [18]

The natives in the region of Mt. Musgrave and Mt. Knutsford, as described by Mr. Thomson, [19]
appear, at all events so far as dress is concerned, to be utterly different from the Mafulu.

Dr. Seligmann states that Dr. Strong has informed him that the southern boundary of the Fuyuge-speaking
area is the Kabadi country, [20] and he had previously referred to Korona, immediately behind
the Kabadi and Doura districts, as being within the area, [21] and, indeed, the Geographical
Society's map shows the Fuyuge area as at all events extending as far south as Korona. I do
not know how far inland the Kabadi and Doura people extend; but I may say that the Mafulu Fathers
expressed grave doubt as to the extension of the Fuyuge area so far south as is indicated by
the map.

If the Fuyuge area does in fact reach the Kabadi boundary, and if my notes on the Mafulu people
are, as suggested, broadly descriptive of the natives of the whole Fuyuge area, there must
be a very sudden and sharp differentiation, as the Kabadi people are apparently an offshoot
from Mekeo, [22] with apparently other Papuo-Melanesian blood (especially Roro) introduced. [23]

The contour and appearance of the country in the actual Mafulu district of the Fuyuge area
is strikingly different from that of the immediately adjoining Kuni country, the sharp steep
ridges and narrow deep-cut valleys of the latter, with their thick unbroken covering of almost
impenetrable forest, changing to higher mountain ranges with lateral ridges among them, and
with frequent gentle undulating slopes and wider and more open valleys; while, interspersed
with the forests, are small patches and great stretches of grass land, sometimes thinly covered
or scattered with timber and sometimes quite open and devoid of trees. [24] And this condition
continues, I was told, over the greater part of the triangular area above referred to.

Plates 1 and 2 give, I think, a fair illustration of what I mean, the steep contours and thickly
wooded character of the foreground and nearer middle distance shown by Plate 1 being typical
Kuni scenery, and the more open nature of the country displayed by Plate 2 and the comparative
freedom from forest of its foreground being typical of the higher uplands of Mafulu. [25]

It will be noticed that the physical character of the Mafulu country is more favourable to
continued occupation than is that of the Kuni country; and it is a fact that the Mafulu people
are not so restless and ready to move as are the Kuni folk; and, even when they do migrate,
it is generally to a spot comparatively near to their old villages.

The geological formation of the lower hills on which the actual Mafulu villages are placed
and the intervening valleys is partly limestone; and I was told that limestone formation was
also found further to the east.

Throughout this book I shall use the term "Mafulu" as including, not only the little group
of villages near the north-westerly corner of the Fuyuge linguistic area actually known by
that name, but also the other groups of Fuyuge villages in the north-western portion of that
area; and, as above indicated, it is believed by the Fathers of the Mission that I should be
substantially correct if I included the whole of the northern and north-eastern, and probably
the southern portions of the known part of that area, and possibly the entire area.

CHAPTER II

Physique and Character

Physique.

The Mafulu people are of short stature, though perhaps a trifle taller than the Kuni.

They are as a rule fairly strong and muscular in build, the women in particular having very
strongly developed thighs; but, speaking generally, their limbs are more slender, and their
general development is slighter, than is usually the case among the Roro and Mekeo people.

They appear to be usually mesaticephalic, but to have a very marked tendency to brachycephaly.

Their noses seemed to me to be generally strong, and of prominent size, varying considerably
in width of bridge, but usually having rather widely distending nostrils; and sometimes the
width of the nose was equal to its length, or nearly so.

Referring to the above matters, the following are the results of twenty measurements of Mafulu
men. These were obtained from men of upwards of six different communities or groups of villages,
so as to avoid the possible misleading character of measurements made in only one village or
group of villages, in which some family relationship between the persons measured might militate
against the true average character of the figures obtained.

No. |   Stature in cm. |   |       Length of head in cm. |   |       |       Breadth of head
in cm. |   |       |       |       Cephalic index |   |       |       |       |       Cranial
index (2 units deducted |   |       |       |       |       from cephalic index). |   |   
|       |       |       |       Nose length in cm. |   |       |       |       |       |  
|       Nose breadth in cm. |   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       Nasal index

 1  150     18.5    14.7    79.5    77.5    4.9     4.4      89.8
 2  155     18.8    15.1    80.3    78.3    4.8     4.8     100.0
 3  155     19.5    14.8    75.9    73.9    5.3     4.3      81.1
 4  157     18.5    15.4    83.2    81.2    4.3     4.3     100.0
 5  153     18.9    14.6    77.2    75.2    4.8     4.4      91.7
 6  151     18.6    14.3    76.9    74.9    4.9     3.8      77.6
 7  151     19.3    15.2    78.8    76.8    5.4     4.4      81.5
 8  163     19.4    14.5    74.7    72.7    5.6     4.4      78.6
 9  162     18.8    15.2    80.9    78.9    5.3     4.0      75.5
10  163     17.4    15.1    86.8    84.8    5.5     4.6      83.6
11  155     18.0    14.0    77.8    75.8    5.3     4.4      83.0
12  157     17.4    14.6    83.9    81.9    4.6     4.0      87.0
13  158     19.7    14.8    75.1    73.1    5.3     4.3      81.1
14  160     17.9    14.4    80.4    78.4    5.1     4.3      84.3
15  153     17.7    14.7    83.1    81.1    5.2     4.1      78.8
16  156     18.5    14.8    80.0    78.0    5.5     4.5      81.8
17  152     17.7    14.9    84.2    82.2    5.6     4.0      71.4
18  154     18.6    14.9    80.1    78.1    5.2     4.5      86.5
19  150     17.8    15.2    85.4    83.4    4.9     3.9      79.6
20  147     18.8    14.5    77.1    75.1    4.6     3.8      82.6

Analysing these figures, we get the following results:--

                    Highest number. Lowest number.  Average.

    Stature [26]    163 cm.         147 cm.         155.1 cm.
                    (64.2 ins.)     (57.9 ins.)     (61.1 ins.)
    Head length     19.7 cm.        17.4 cm.        18.5 cm.
    Head breadth    15.4 cm.        14.0 cm.        14.8 cm.
    Cephalic index  86.8            74.7            80.0
    Cranial index   84.8            72.7            78.0
    Nose length     5.6 cm.         4.3 cm.         5.1 cm.
    Nose breadth    4.8 cm.         3.8 cm.         4.3 cm.
    Nasal index     100.0           71.4            84.3 [27]

    Number of cranial indices under 75 = 4 (20 per cent.).
    Number of cranial indices between 75 and 80 = 10 (50 per cent.).
    Number of cranial indices over 80 = 6 (30 per cent.).

There are a few points in connection with these figures to which I would draw attention. The
very short man (No. 20--height, 147 cm.) has a cranial index of 75.1, on the border line between
dolichocephaly and mesaticephaly. He has also a short nose (4.6 cm.), and is one of the two
with the narrowest noses (3.8 c.m.). The very tall man (No. 8--height, 163 cm.) has a long
head (19.4 cm.), and the lowest dolichocephalic cranial index of 72.7, and is one of two with
the longest noses (5.6 cm.). The other very tall man (No. 10--height, 163 cm.) has one of the
two shortest heads (17.4 cm.), and the highest brachycephalic cranial index of 84.8, and has
a long nose (5.5 cm.) The man (No. 2) whose nasal index is 100 has the mesaticephalic cranial
index of 78.3 (almost the average index). The other man (No. 4) whose nasal index is 100 has
a head of exactly the average length (18.5 cm.) and the greatest breadth (15.4 cm.), and the
brachycephalic cranial index of 81.2. The man (No. 17) with the lowest nasal index of 71.4
has a very short head (17.7 cm.), and the brachycephalic cranial index of 82.2.

The following tables, however, illustrate the fact that the measurements of these twenty men
do not appear to indicate, as regards them, any marked connection between stature, cranial
index, and nasal index.

Order in stature (beginning with the shortest):

20--1--19--6--7--17--5--15--18--2--3--11--16--4--12--13--14--9--8--10.

Order in progress upwards of cranial indices:

8--13--3--6-20--5--ll--7--1--16--18--2--14--9--15--4--12--17--19--10.

Order in progress upwards of nasal indices:

17--9--6--8--15--19--3--13--7--16--20--11--10--14--18--12--1--5--2--4.

I brought home three Mafulu skulls, which Dr. Keith kindly had measured at the Royal College
of Surgeons, with the following results [28]:--

    Skull
    |       Length in cm.
    |       |       Breadth in cm.
    |       |       |       Height in cm.
    |       |       |       |       Cranial Index.
    |       |       |       |       |       Proportion of
    |       |       |       |       |       height to length.

    A       17.6    14.0    12.2    79.5    69.3
    B       18.2    14.1    13.2    77.5    72.5
    C       17.3    12.7    12.5    73.4    72.3

It will be observed that the lowest of these three cranial indices is a trifle higher than
the lowest of those of the head measurements, that the highest of them is much lower than the
highest of those of the head measurements, and that their average (76.8) is a little below
the average of those of the head measurements.

Dr. Keith had further measurements made of these skulls from the point of view of prognathism
and characters of noses and orbits, with the following results:

    Skull.
    |       Basi-nasal length.
    |       |       Basi-alveolar length.
    |       |       |       Height of nose.
    |       |       |       |       Width of nose.
    |       |       |       |       |       Height of orbit.
    |       |       |       |       |       |       Width of orbit.

            mm.      mm.    mm.     mm.     mm.     mm.
    A       98      102     48      26      40      35
    B       99       96     49      25      42      35
    C       97      102     47      26      38      35

Dr. Keith, referring to these skulls, says that they disclose relatively small brains, the
cranial capacity of A being 1,230 c.c., that of B being 1,330 c.c., and that of C being 1,130
c.c. He compares these figures with the average cranial capacity of the male European, which
he puts at 1,500 c.c.

The eyes of the Mafulu people are dark brown and very bright. I never saw among them those
oblique eyes, almost recalling the Mongolian, which, according to Dr. Seligmann, are found,
though rarely only, on the coast, [29] and of which I saw many instances among the Kuni people.

Their lips are usually not so thick as are those of the Mekeo and Roro people, and are generally
finer and more delicate in shape.

In view of their Papuan language I kept a sharp look out for the curious backward sloping foreheads
and projecting brow ridges and Jewish-looking noses which are so often found among the Western
Papuans; but, although I saw a few examples of these, they were rare, and I did not observe
any noticeable tendency in these directions in the faces of the people generally. [30]

A curious characteristic with them is the big toe, which is usually much developed, and projects
outwards at a larger angle than is the case with the Roro and Mekeo people, and is much used
for holding on to roots, &c., whilst travelling along their rough mountain paths.

Their general colour is a dark sooty brown, a trifle darker, perhaps, than that of the Kuni
people, and contrasting forcibly with the varying shades of chocolate which you find among
the Roro and Mekeo people. They are smooth-skinned.

Their hair is frizzly, and generally dark brown, often quite dark, almost even approaching
to black, and sometimes perhaps quite black. But it is frequently lighter; and indeed I was
often, when observing men's hair lit up by sunshine, impressed by the fact that its brown colour
was not even what we should in Europe call dark. [31] I often saw marked variations in the
depth of hair colour on the head of the same individual. I saw no examples of the comparatively
straight or curly type of hair which is found in the Pokau district and elsewhere. [32]

Plate 3 gives front and side views of the mesaticephalic (almost brachycephalic) skull A and
Plate 4 gives similar views of the dolichocephalic skull C. All the photographs were made as
nearly as possible exactly half the sizes of the originals; but the photographer has made the
front view of skull A about an eighth of an inch too narrow (with, of course, a corresponding
deficiency in height), so that the tendency to roundness of this skull is not quite sufficiently
shown, and the proportion of its height to its length is reduced, in the plate. I am not a
craniologist, and so I do not attempt to discuss the more detailed points of interest which
arise in connection with these skulls.

A good idea of the somewhat varying characters of the general physiques and features of the
people will be obtained from my plates; but there are a few of these plates which I may mention
here.

The people shown in Plates 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 16 may, I think, be regarded as fairly typical,
and I would draw attention to the somewhat Melanesian tendency of feature which is disclosed
by the faces of the man in Plate 6, the young man in the middle in Plate 7 and the fourth and
sixth men from the left in Plate 9; also to the great diversity shown in Plate 9. The man shown
in Plate 10, with his thick and strong muscular development, is of a type which is occasionally
seen, but which is, I believe, unusual. The two men figured in Plates 11 and 12 are, I think,
specially interesting. The one to the right, with his somewhat backward sloping forehead, and
slightly arched nose, shows a distinct tendency towards the type of the Western Papuan, to
which I have already referred. The other one is in general shape of head and appearance of
features not unlike some of the dwarf people found by the recent expedition into Dutch New
Guinea (see the man to the left in Plate 4 of the page of illustrations in The Illustrated
London News for September 2, 1911), and indeed there is almost an Australian tendency in his
face. It is noticeable that he has a beard and moustache, which is quite unusual among the
Mafulu. A somewhat similar type of face may be noticed in one or two of the other plates.

Character and Temperament.

It is difficult to speak with any degree of definiteness on this question. It must be borne
in mind that the Mafulu people have been very little in touch with white people, the missionaries,
who have only been there since 1905, and on rare occasions a Government official or scientific
traveller, being almost the only white men whom the bulk of them have ever seen; and they have
been but slightly affected by the outside influences which for some years past have been constantly
brought to bear upon the natives of the adjoining coast line and the people of the Mekeo plains;
so that comparisons of these people with their more up-to-date neighbours as regards their
relative natural characters may well be in some respects misleading.

Subject, however, to this caution I would say that they are lazy and easy-going (though not
so much so as the Roro and Mekeo people), lively, excitable, cheerful, merry, fairly intelligent
(this being judged rather from the young people), very superstitious, brave, with much power
of enduring pain, cruel, not more revengeful perhaps than is usual among uncivilised natives,
friendly one with another, not quarrelsome, but untrustworthy and not over-faithful even in
their dealings with one another, though honest as regards boundaries and property rights and
in the sense of not stealing from one another within their own communities (this being regarded
as a most shameful offence), and of very loose sexual morality.

A difference between them and the Mekeo and Roro natives is that they appear to be not so conservative
as the latter, being more ready to abandon old traditions and adopt new ideas; though this
characteristic is one which shows itself in the young people rather than in the elders with
their formed habits.

CHAPTER III

Dress and Ornament

Dress.

The perineal band, made of bark cloth, is the one article of dress which is universally worn
by both men and women.

These bands are made by both men and women, but are coloured by men only. They are commonly
unstained and undecorated; but some of them, and especially those worn for visiting and at
dances, are more or less decorated. Some that I have noticed are stained in one colour covering
the whole garment; others in two colours arranged in alternate transverse bands, sometimes
with narrow spaces of unstained cloth between; and again others have bands of one colour alternating
with bands of unstained cloth. Some are decorated with lines or groups of lines of one colour,
or alternating lines or groups of lines of two colours, painted transversely across the cloth.
Others, while simply stained in one colour or stained or decorated in one of the ways above
described, have another simple terminal design near the end of the garment.

The men's bands are usually small and narrow, as compared with those worn by the Roro and Mekeo
people; and the women's bands seemed to me to be generally even narrower than those of the
men, particularly in front. Men's bands, which I have measured, were about 6 inches wide at
one end, narrowing down to about 3 inches at the other; and the widths of women's bands were
4 or 5 inches or less at one end, narrowing down to about 2 inches at the other. But the bands
of both men and women, especially those of the latter, often become so crumpled up and creased
with wear that the portion passing between the legs dwindles down to about an inch or less
in width. One is tempted to think, as regards both men and women, that, from the point of view
of covering, the bands might be dispensed with altogether. This remark applies still more strongly
to the case of young boys and unmarried girls, including among the latter big full-grown girls,
who are in fact fully developed women, whose bands can hardly be regarded as being more than
nominal, and who, especially the girls and young women, and even sometimes married women who
are nursing their babies, can really only be described as being practically naked.

Plate 13 (Figs, 1, 2, and 3) illustrates the staining and decoration of perineal bands. [33]
Fig. 1 is a section of a man's band about 6 inches wide. The transverse lines, which extend
along the whole length of the band, are in alternate groups of black and red. The background
is unevenly stained yellow behind the black lines; but the background behind the red lines
and the spaces intervening between the groups of lines are unstained. Fig. 2 is the pattern
near the end of a woman's band about 5 inches wide. The lines are coloured red. There is no
pattern on the rest of the band; but the whole of the band, including the background of the
pattern, is stained yellow. Fig. 3 is a section of a woman's band about 2 1/2 inches wide.
The colouring is in alternate bands of red and yellow with irregular unstained spaces between.

I was struck with the gradual reduction of the women's dress as I travelled from the coast,
with its Roro inhabitants, through Mekeo, and thence by Lapeka and Ido-ido to Dilava, and on
by Deva-deva to Mafulu. The petticoats of the Roro women gave way to the shorter ones of Mekeo,
and these seemed to get shorter as I went further inland. Then at Lapeka they were still shorter.
At Ido-ido, which is Kuni, the petticoats ceased, and there was only the perineal band. Then,
again, at Dilava (still Kuni) this band was narrower, and at Deva-deva, and finally at Mafulu,
it was often, as I have said, almost nominal.

I was told that the age at which a boy usually begins to wear his band is about 10 or 12, or
in the case of a chief's son 16 or 17; but that girls assume their bands at a somewhat earlier
age, say at 7 or 8. So far as my personal observation went I should have thought that the usual
maximum age of nakedness for both boys and girls was rather younger, and I never saw a naked
boy of an age anything like 16.

The assumption of the perineal band is the subject of a ceremony which will be dealt with hereafter.

Caps are very often worn by men, but not by women or children. These are simply pieces of plain
unstained bark cloth about 9 inches wide, which are coiled and twisted on the head. The result
is often a shapeless mass; but there are methods of arranging the cloth in definite ways which
produce describable results. Sometimes the cloth is merely coiled several times around the
head, so as to produce a tall thin turban-shaped band, the crown of the head being left uncovered.
Often this plan is extended by turning the end of the cloth over, so as to cover the top of
the head, thus producing in some cases a result which resembles a fez, and in other cases one
which looks more like a tight skullcap. Again the cap often has its centre terminating in an
end or tassel hanging over, thus making it look like a cap of liberty; and yet again I have
seen the cap look almost like the square paper caps often worn by certain artisans at home.
These caps are seen in several of the plates.

Abdominal belts are commonly worn by both men and women, but not as a rule by children. There
are several distinct forms of these:--

(1) A thick strong dark-coloured belt (Plate 14, Fig. I) made of tree bark; made and worn by
men only. The belt is about 3 or more inches wide and is often so long that it passes twice
round the body, the outer end being fastened to the coil beneath it by two strings. This form
of belt is sometimes ornamented with simple straight-lined geometric patterns carved into the
belt, but it is never coloured. The process of manufacture is as follows: they cut off a strip
of bark large enough for one, two, three, or four belts, and coil it up in concentric circles,
like the two circles of the belt when worn. They then place it so coiled into water, and leave
it there to soak for a few days, after which they strip off the outer part, leaving the smooth
inner bark, which they dry, and finally cut into the required lengths, to which they add the
attachment strings made of native fibre.

(2) A belt made of a material looking like split cane and thin strips from the fibre of what
I was told was a creeping plant [34]; made and worn by men only. The latter material is obtained
by splitting the fibre into thin strips. These strips and the strips of split cane-like material
are rather coarse in texture. The former are of a dull red-brown colour (natural, not produced
by staining) and the latter are stone-yellow. The two are plaited together in geometric patterns.
The width of the belt is about 2 inches. It only passes once round the man's body; and the
plaiting is finished with the belt on the body, so that it can only afterwards be removed by
unplaiting or cutting it off.

(3) A belt (Plate 14, Fig. 2) made of stone-yellow unsplit cane; made and worn by both men
and women. This is the simplest form of belt, being merely a strip of cane intertwined (not
plaited) so as to form a band about half an inch wide, and left the natural colour of the cane.
Both men and women, when short of food, use this belt to reduce the pain of hunger, by tightening
it over the stomach. It is, therefore, much worn during a period of restricted diet prior to
a feast. Women also use it, along with their other ordinary means, to bring about abortion,
the belt being for this purpose drawn very tightly round the body. Often two, or even three,
such belts are worn together.

(4) A belt (Plate 14, Fig. 3) made of coarse, sometimes very coarse, stone-yellow split cane
or cane-like material; made and worn by men only. This belt is left the natural colour of the
material, which is plaited so as to form a band from half an inch to 2 inches broad, the two
ends of which are bound together with cane. It also, like No. 2, is finished on the body. A
man will often wear two or three of these belts together.

(5) A belt (Plate 15, Fig. i) made out of the inner fibre of a creeping plant [35]; made and
worn by men only. The fibre threads used for this belt are very fine, so the plaiting is minute,
instead of being coarse like that of No. 2; but it is generally done rather loosely and openly.
The belt is usually about 2 inches wide or a trifle less and is often plaited in slightly varying
geometric patterns. It is not stained in manufacture, but the natural stone-grey colour of
the fibre soon becomes tinted as the result of wear and the staining of the wearer's body,
and in particular it often becomes an ornamental red. This belt also is finished on the man's body.

(6) A belt (Plate 15, Fig. 2) made of the inner fibre of what I was told was another creeping
plant [36] and the stem of a plant which I believe to be one of the Dendrobiums [37]; made
and worn by men only. The fibres of the former plant are stained black; the reedy stems of
the other plant are put in short bamboo stems filled with water, and then boiled. They are
then easily split up into flattish straws, and become a colour varying from rather bright yellow
to brown. For making the belt these two materials, looking rather like black and bright yellow
straw, are plaited together in various geometrical patterns. The width of the belt is 2 inches,
or a trifle more. It is tied at the ends with fibre string.

(7) A rather special form of belt (Plate 15, Fig. 3) used mainly for visiting and dancing;
made and worn by both men and women. The belt is made out of a hank of loose separate strands
between 4 and 5 feet long, tied together with string or bark cloth at two opposite points,
so as to form a belt of between 2 feet and 2 feet 6 inches in length. For better description
I would liken it to a skein of wool, as it looks when held on the hands of one person for the
purpose of being wound off into a ball by someone else, but which, instead of being wound off,
is tied up at the two points where it passes round the hands of the holder, and is then pulled
out into a straight line of double the original number of strands, and so forms a single many-stranded
belt of 2 feet or more in length. It is fastened round the waist with a piece of bark cloth
attached to one of the points where the hank has been tied up. [38]

The number of strands is considerable. Belts examined by me and counted gave numbers varying
from eighteen to thirty-five, and the number of strands of the belt round the body would be
double that. Each strand is made of three parts plaited together, and is one-eighth of an inch
or less in width. Various materials, including all the materials used for armlets (see below),
are employed for making these belts, some for one and some for another. Sometimes a belt has
its strands all plaited out of one material only, in which case the belt will be all of one
colour. Sometimes its strands are plaited out of two different coloured materials. There is
no colouring of the belt, except that of its strands.

Belt No. 1, as worn, is seen in Plates 9 and 11. Belt No. 3 is worn by the man at the extreme
right in Plate 16. It is worn by many of the women figured in the plates, and several of them
have two belts. One of the women figured in Plates 18 and 19 has three of them. Belt No. 4
is worn by one of the men figured in Plates 7 and 8 (he has three of them). Belt No. 7 is worn
by one or two of the women figured in the frontispiece, the one to the extreme right having
a many-stranded belt, and it is excellently illustrated in Plate 17.

Capes made of bark cloth are made and worn by men and women. They are only put on after recovery
from an illness by which the wearer has been laid up, including childbirth. The cape is simply
a plain long narrow piece of undyed bark cloth. The corners of one end are fastened together,
and the whole of that end is bunched up into a sort of hood, which is placed over the head,
whilst the rest of the cloth hangs down as a narrow strip behind. The cape in no way covers
or conceals any part of the body when viewed from the front or side. It is only worn for a
few days; but whilst wearing it the wearer discards all, or nearly all, his or her ornaments.
I could learn no reason for the custom. Plates 18 and 19 show these capes, and the way in which
they are worn.

