The growing pressure of the business having already obliged the Belgium Postal Authorities
to cut down the time allowed for a telephonic communication between Paris and Brussels, from
five minutes to three, it is to be presumed that the rush of public patronage that may be expected
when the wire is opened between London and the French Capital, will soon necessitate the substitution,
in place of the promised ten minutes, of an allowance to each speaker of a minute, or at most
a minute and a half for his interview, which it may confidently be expected will not unfrequently
take the following shape:--

Inexorable Official. Now, Sir; your turn next.

    [Shuts intending London Talker in, and switches him "on."

London Talker. Dear me! How quick they are, one hardly knows what one is about. I wonder how
loud, now, one ought to speak. Better shout. Anyhow, I'll try that first. (At the top of his
voice through the tube.) Hullo! Hi! I say. Are you there?

Paris Listener (replying). Oh! don't bawl like that. Of course I'm here, I've been waiting
quite half a minute; thought you were never going to begin. But I suppose it is JONES I am
speaking to?

London Talker. Oh yes, I'm JONES. It's all right. But can't you recognise my voice?

Paris Listener. Not when you bawl fit to break the drum of one's ear. But come, now, get on
quick with what you want to say.

London Talker. All right--I'll get on. But now tell me, do I pitch my voice about right now?
Can you catch distinctly all I say?

Paris Listener. Oh yes! Bother! But do get on. Timesgoifast.

London Talker. What? I didn't catch that last word. Time's what?

Paris Listener (very distinctly, with emphasis). I said--that--time--was--going fast. Can you
hear that?

London Talker. Oh yes, I can hear that, and most distinctly. Really, it is a most wonderful
invention.

Paris Listener. Oh, bother the invention! Do come to business! What did you want me for?

London Talker. Oh. of course. Well, it was just this. I thought--

Inexorable Official. Time's up, Sir. Trouble you to make room for this Lady.

    [Switches him "off," and turns him out.

       *       *       *       *       *

"THAT CON-FOUNDLAND DOG!"

Mr. JOHN BULL loquitur:--

  "Love me, love my Dog!" Well, I don't want to flog
    The fine but excitable fellow.
  With a nip on his tail e'en a Bull wouldn't fail
    To bounce round a bit, and to bellow.
  I'd do my square best with the greatest good will,
  If only he'd--just for a moment--stand still.

  Stand still, with a nip like crocodile's grip
    On one's caudal appendage? Ah, just so!
  I know 'tis a task that seems too much to ask.
    I'm reasonable,--or I trust so.
  But there is the Lobster, it's holding on fast.
  And--hang it! this state of affairs cannot last!

  How came it about? That's a matter of doubt,
    Which there isn't much use in discussing,
  To part them's my aim; I would manage that same
    Without either fighting or fussing.
  Newfoundland or not, there's no dog finds it nice
  To live very long with its tail in a vice!

  I want to get near if I can, but, oh dear!
    The Dog to my call won't attend. I
  Conceive, if he would, it might be for his good,
    I'd hit on some modus vivendi.
  But if Dog won't stand still, and if Lobster won't loose,
  My heartiest help cannot be of much use.

  One ANDROCLES bold eased a lion of old
    Of a thorn in his foot--a great worry!
  But ANDROCLES, sure, would have failed of a cure
    If poor Leo had kept on the scurry,
  As you, my dear Dog, do at present. Verb. sap.!
  Do just let me get at the Lobster, old chap!

  While it's fast to your tail, and you wriggle and wail,
    And romp all around, the best master,
  And kindest of heart, Dog and Lobster can't part.
    Don't think I deride your disaster!
  The pinch of it might make an elephant prance;
  No, all that I ask is--just give me a chance!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A TEN MINUTES' IDYL.

  Life is a farce, a dreary round,
    A fraud--of that there's not a doubt,
  Although I've only lately found
                     It out.

  Bad boldly masquerades as good,
    Fruit turns to ashes in the taking,
  Unpleasant very is the rude
                     Awaking.

  'Tis Spring, when something, so one learns,
    Seems to affect the burnished dove,
  And when a young man's fancy turns
                     To love.

  With window open to the breeze,
    The tramp of passers-by unheeding,
  I sit reclining at mine ease,
                     A-reading.

  I've read enough--and not amiss
    I rather fancy now would be
  A little rest--ah! what is this
                     I see?

  A sight that's almost past belief,
    And makes me think I must be raving,
  For there a girl a handkerchief
                     Is waving!

  Like to a light that in the black
    And inky night shines o'er the main,
  It disappears, and then comes back
                     Again.

  I know the house quite well--I've heard
    Her father's something in the City,
  And she's a blue-eyed girl absurd-
                     -ly pretty.

  By Jove! she does it with a whirr,
    It's clear this inexpressive she
  Is given to the fortiter
                     In re.

  Of course it's forward--and indeed
    It's worse--it's shockingly imprudent
  Thus to encourage me, a need-
                      -y student.

  Her form is shadowy--I must
    Get out my glasses, so to bring
  Her nearer. Yes--the range is just
                     The thing!

         *       *       *       *       *

  Life is a farce, without a doubt!
    The cause of all this fuss and fluster
  Is just a housemaid shaking out
                     Her duster!

       *       *       *       *       *

IN THEIR EASTER EGGS.

Lord Salisbury.--Allegorical Cartoon representing BRITANNIA astonished at the success of her
recent Foreign Policy.

Mr. Gladstone.--Pocket Edition of Cyclopædia of Universal Information, copiously illustrated,
for the use of veteran Statesmen.

The Emperor of Germany.--Prize Homily on the Art of Governing, with special reference to the
science as applied to the subordination of "temper."

Mr. Parnell.--Sculptured Group representing the Reptile of Egotism turning the tables on St.
Patrick, and endeavouring to drive him out of Ireland.

The President of the United States.--An Italian Iron--over-heated.

Ex-King Milan of Servia.--A Monthly Cheque for amusement and travelling expenses, but not including
a return ticket to Belgrade.

The Post-Master-General.--One hundred Receipts for getting into hot water.

Mr. Sheriff Augustus Harris.--Draft Proposal for buying up and working the British Government
with duly audited Schedule, showing how the "takings" could be more than doubled by spirited
management.

Mr. Jackson of Clitheroe.--Prize Farce entitled, "Lynch Law and Conjugal Rights."

       *       *       *       *       *

MEN WHO HAVE TAKEN ME IN--

TO DINNER.

(BY A DINNER-BELLE.)

NO. III.--THE GREAT UNKNOWN.

  He was a dapper, dumpy thing,
    With nought decisive on him graven
  But smiles, like footlights flickering
              O'er visage shaven.

  And it, that kind of social myth
    Where every guest (and each a rum one)
  Is Somebody, because the kith
              Or kin of Someone.

  The Great Siberian Victim's Aunt,
    The Godfather of Colonel CODY,
  And some affinity I can't
              Recall to DAUDET.

  In fine, a Tussaud's once removed,
    Not waxworks, but their far connections;
  The names, the attitudes, approved,
              But mere reflections.

  Our hostess, wont to pedigree
    Her portents, slurred his surname sweetly;
  So up my smiler tripped--to me
              Unknown completely.

  Thus mystified, I needs must bruit
    The weather--"It was rainy, rather."
  "Yes," he rejoined, "It does not suit
              My Poet-father:

  "Strange how the damp affects great men;
    My nephew, not the Wit, the Artist,
  You know paints always smartest when
              It rains the smartest."

  "In water-colours?" feebly next
    I faltered, falling quite to pieces:
  "No, no," he murmured mildly vexed,
              "You mean my nieces.

  "Those delicate young paintresses
    Of Idyls in Cobalt and Bistre,
  Though for Impressionist success,
              Give me my sister.

  "My nephew, he's inspired of course,
    Divine, quite autre chose: en bref you--
  Forgive an uncle's pride--perforce
              Adore my nephew."

  Reeling with Relatives, I quite
    My compass lost: to shift our bearing,
  "Who is the Lady on your right?"
              Quoth I, despairing.

  "That Beauty, like the portraits I've
    For sale beheld of Miss BELLE BILTON."--
  "She? She's the representative,
              The last, of MILTON!"

  This was too much: what could I try
    To burst from such a tangled tether?
  The shops for neutral ground, thought I,
              Eclipse the weather.

  The shops! The very thing. I dared
    The shops. "How wonderful was WHITELEY!"
  Dazed at the Wizard's name he stared,
              And shuddered slightly.

  A silence froze his ready twang:
    No more he smiled--from that fell minute,
  HENRY THE FIRST--to speak in slang--
              Was scarcely in it.

  That smilelessness! What meant the curse?
    Who could the skein unravel? I did.
  This was the Diner "Univers-
              -ally provided."

  Renowned, if nameless--hired to be
    Salvation of a banquet's ruin,
  "Monsieur Le Quatorzième" took me,
              And may take you in.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MERRY GREEN WOOD.

AN "EPPING FOREST" CHORUS.

    "For ever and again the Corporation of London send down their
    protégés, the young City sportsmen who may, or may not, know
    how to load a gun, but who are very keen on 'Sport.' Then the
    herds are driven by beaters towards the gallant huntsmen, the
    forest re-echoes with the report of guns, and next day you
    can trace the whereabouts of the wounded bucks and deer by
    tracks of blood among the bushes, and by impressions on the
    grass where the maimed creature has fallen in its flight for
    life."--Pall Mall Gazette.

Chorus of Huntsmen.

  Oh, we like,--we love the Merry Green Wood,
    As should Huntsmen bold of the proper sort!
  And we would hit the stag if we possibly could,--
    As is meet with such palpable sons of Sport.
  Away to the forest we cheerily run,
    And wait for the beaters' welcome cry;
  And though we are new to the use of a gun,
  What matters? At anything we'll let fly!
  So Sing hey, sing ho, for the startled deer;
  We warrant we'll hit him, if he comes near
  And we'll send him lame and limping away,
  With a shot he'll remember for many a day!
  For marry come up! But it would be absurd
  To expect a bold Sportsman to bag the whole herd!
  So he blazes away; and he hits one or two;
  And they hobble away in some thicket to lie,
  And, after a day or two's suffering, die;
  We don't see precisely what more we could do,
  Than shout that "we love the Merry Green Wood!"
  And would settle the stag,--if we possibly could!

       *       *       *       *       *

The following advertisement appears in the Standard:--

    A Lady wishes to have twice from the country a SUPPLY of LIVE
    SPARROWS, for a favourite cat.--Address, &c.

There is an uncomfortably blood-thirsty look about this "Lady's" desire to supply her favourite
cat with some downright real Sport. For it is to be presumed that she intends her well-cared
for pet literally to do the unhappy sparrows to death in the most approved fashion. How will
she manage it? Clip their wings, and set them on the drawing-room floor; or tie strings to
their legs, and let the favourite cat "go for them?" Cats must be fed. But it is not necessary
to provide them with a "Supply of Live Sparrows" twice, or even once. We submit the subject
to the notice of the S.P.C.A.

       *       *       *       *       *

ONE POUND NOTES.--Probable rate that a fashionable prima donna will charge for a song in the
near future.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR OPENING (SUN) DAY!

Emancipated Blue-Ribboned British Workman loquitur:--

  Yesh, HARRY LAWSHUN mosh entirely righ'!
  WILFRIDSH mush blesh his nameshake! Had a frigh'
  Only lash Shundaysh. Fanshied I saw snakesh.
  Frigh'ful to watch 'em wrigglung, when one wakesh
  Over the quilterpane--I mean counterquilt.
  Liqnorsh are lovely, when you're that waysh built;
  But snakesh ish pizen! So ish liquorsh, too--
  Leastwaysh, so WILFRIDSH LAWSHON and hish crew
  Alwaysh declaresh! No matter! Nash'ral Museum,
  Mush better than the Jim-Jamsh! Eugh! I shee 'em!
  All eyesh and limbsh, all twists, and twirls, and twiddles;
  Tails like long corkscrewsh, gogglesh in their middles;
  Big headsh, and bony bodysh--frigh'fully frisky!
  Fancy sush things living in Irish Whishky,
  Like animalcu--what's it? in--hic--water!
  No matter! I've sworn offsh! POLLY, my daughter,
  Made me Good Templarsh! No more horrorsh now!
  To Heaven's broad blue vault I lift my brow,
  A shober Br--Bri'sh Workman! So old DUMPER,
  The lecturer, putsh it. He'sh a rare tub-thumper!
  Itsh Easter Shunday, and I am not tigh'!
  Bri'sh Workman--Nash'ral Museum! Thatsh or'righ'.
  Feelsh bit unsteady! That dashed ginger-beer
  Gassysh--go i' my head an' makesh me queer!
  One nipsh!--no, no! won't do! Wherream I? Lor!
  Strai' on, the plishman says, through tha' there door.
  Doorsh blesshed wide, and these 'ere big shop-cases
  With bitsh o' stone and beedlesh!--Yah! Thosh faces!
  Thosh eyesh, thosh limbsh, thosh bodysh, big and bony!
  Thosh wrigglewigglements! I'll bet a pony
  Thish ish no Nash'ral Museum--Nash--hic--ral Hishtory!
  Look at 'em! Look at 'em!! Oh, hersh a mystery!
  POLLYSH,--where are yer? Where'sh that blesshed bottle?
  I'vesh got a peck o' March dust down my throttle.
  Give ush that gin--ger beersh, o' course, I mean.
  Look, POLLY!--shee that creature long and lean,
  Crawling towardsh us! Jim-Jamsh are not in it
  With thish 'ere Bri's'h Museum! Wai' a minute!
  Where am I? Whersh tha' girl? Can't read this lingo!
  "Mega--" It moves! Got 'em again, by Jingo!!!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

LEAVES FROM A CANDIDATE'S DIARY.

March 10.--It has come at last, and I'm free to confess I don't care for it half as much as
I thought I should. I got the letter five days ago. Here it is:--

    45, Main Street, Billsbury, March 4, 18--.

Sir,--I have been in communication with headquarters, and I am informed that you are looking
out for a Constituency at the next General Election. We have been for some time past endeavouring
to find a Candidate for this Borough, and should be glad to hear if we may submit your name
to the consideration of our local Council. The political history of Billsbury must be known
to you. Up to the date of the last election we have always been represented by a Conservative.
In fact, Billsbury was always looked upon as an impregnable fortress of sound Constitutional
opinion.

