Feeling, however, a great desire to sift further into the matter, I feigned to withdraw, but
kept my eye upon the boy, and followed him for nearly two hours, until I saw him join two other
boys, one of whom I had not seen before, and who had a bag with something very heavy in it,
which, I have every reason to believe, were weights, or something which they had obtained in
a similar manner. Wishing to ascertain the fact, I approached them, but they no sooner perceived
me, than the little fellow who had been the principal actor in the affair, called out "Nose,
Nose,"--a signal-word, no doubt, agreed upon amongst them,--when they all ran down some obscure
alleys. I followed, but was knocked down, as if by accident, by two ill-looking fellows, who
continued to detain me with apologies till the boys had got safely away. I have little doubt
that this was an instance of that organized system of depredation of which I have before spoken,
and that the man who took so active a part at the first, was at the bottom of the business;
and, in fact, the tutor and employer of the predatory urchins. His activity in preventing the
boy from being taken back to the shop--his anxiety to promote a subscription for the boy,--and,
lastly, his threat of personal violence if I interfered in the matter, by continuing to question
the child,--all these circumstances confirm me in the opinion.

It is only by the knowledge of this fact--the association of infant offenders with those of
maturer and hardened habits--that we can account for such cases as the following.--On the 17th
of July, 1823, a child only seven years old, was brought before the magistrate at Lambeth Street
office, charged with frequently robbing his mother, and was ordered to be locked up all night
in the gaol-room. In the evening, however, when his mother returned, he forced his way out
of the room, and behaved with such violence that the attendants were obliged to iron both his
hands and legs! There can be no doubt that this child had been for a long time under the instruction
and evil influence of some old and hardened offender; he must, indeed, have undergone much
training before he could have arrived at such a pitch of hardihood, as to make it necessary
to handcuff and fetter a child of so tender an age; and to enable him to hold even the magistrates,
officers, and his own parent, at defiance.

The following cases afford further proof of the same lamentable truth; the first is extracted
from a morning paper of the 20th of September, 1824. "A little boy, not more than six years
of age, was brought before the Lord Mayor at the Mansion House, on Saturday, the 18th instant,
having been found in a warehouse, where he had secreted himself for the purpose of thieving.
At a late hour on Friday night, a watchman was going his round, when, on trying a warehouse
in which there was much valuable property, to see whether it was safe, he heard the little
prisoner cry. The persons who had the care of the warehouse were roused, and he was taken out.
In his fright he acknowledged that a man had taken him from his mother, and induced him, upon
a promise of reward, to steal into the warehouse; upon a concerted signal, he was to act as
directed by the fellow on the outside; but becoming terrified at being confined so long in
the dark, he had cried out and discovered himself. His mother came forward, and received a
good character as the wife of a hard-working man. The Lord Mayor gave her son up to her, with
an injunction to act carefully and strictly with him. There was reason to believe, he said,
that several considerable robberies had been recently committed by means of children like the
prisoner, who stole in and remained concealed until midnight, when they gave admission to the
robbers. The police should have their eyes upon him."

The other instance is from a report of one of the sessions in London:--

"William Hart, an urchin seven years of age, was indicted for stealing twenty-two shillings
in money, numbered, from the person of Mary Conner. The prosecutrix stated, that on the day
named in the indictment, she took twenty-five shillings to get something out of pledge, but
as there was a crowd in Mary-le-bone, assembled to witness a fight, she was induced to join
the mob. While standing there she felt something move in her pocket, and putting her hand outside
her clothes, she laid hold of what proved to be the hand of the prisoner, which she held until
she had given him a slap on the face, and then she let him go; but on feeling in her pocket
she discovered that the theft had actually been committed, and that only three shillings were
left. A constable took the urchin into custody, and accused him of robbing her of twenty-two
shillings. The prisoner said, 'I have twenty-two shillings in my pocket, but it is my mother's
money; she gets so drunk she gives me her money to take care of.' The officer stated to the
same effect as the prosecutrix, and added, that in a secret pocket in his jacket he found fourteen
shilling and sixpence. It was the practice of gangs of pickpockets to have a child like this
to commit the robbery, and hand the plunder to them. Witness went to his parents, who said
he had been absent seven weeks, and they would have nothing to do with him. Mr. Baron Garrow,
in feeling terms, lamented that a child of such tender years should be so depraved. He added,
'I suppose, gentlemen, I need only to ask you to deliver your verdict.' His lordship then observed,
that he would consult with his learned brother as to the best manner of disposing of the prisoner.
They at length decided, that although it might seem harsh, the court would record against him
fourteen years' transportation, and, no doubt, government would place him in some school; if
he behaved well there, the sentence might not be carried into full effect."

I remember a query being once put to me by a person who visited the Spitalfields Infant School
at the time it was under my management: "How can you account for the fact, that notwithstanding
there are so many old and experienced thieves detected, convicted, and sent out of the country
every session, we cannot perceive any dimunition of the numbers of such characters; but that
others seem always to supply their places?" The foregoing instance of the systematized instruction
of young delinquents by old adepts in the art of pilfering, affords, I think, a satisfactory
answer the interrogatory.

The dexterity of experienced thieves shews, that no small degree of care and attention is bestowed
on their tuition. The first task of novices, I have been informed, is to go in companies of
threes or fours, through the respectable streets and squares of the metropolis, and with an
old knife, or a similar instrument, to wrench off the brass-work usually placed over the key-holes
of the area-gates, &c., which they sell at the marine store-shops; and they are said sometimes
to realize three or four shillings a day, by this means. Wishing to be satisfied on the point,
I have walked round many of the squares in town, and in more than a solitary experiment, have
found that not one gate in ten had any brass-work over the key-hole; it had moreover been evidently
wrenched off,--a small piece of the brass still remaining on many of the gates. Having practised
this branch of the profession a considerable time, and become adepts in its execution, the
next step, I have been informed, is to steal the handles and brass knockers from doors, which
is done by taking out the screw with a small screw-driver: these are disposed of in the same
manner as the former things, till the young pilferers are progressively qualified for stealing
brass weights, &c., and at length, become expert thieves.

The following fact will shew what extensive depredations young children are capable of committing.
I have inserted the whole as it appeared in the public papers:--"Union Hall; Shop Lifting.--Yesterday,
two little girls, sisters, very neatly dressed, one nine, and the other seven, years of age,
were put to the bar, charged by Mr. Cornell, linen-draper, of High Street, Newington; with
having stolen a piece of printed calico, from the corner of his shop.

"Mr. Cornell stated, that the children came to his shop, yesterday morning; and while he was
engaged with his customers at the further end of the shop, he happened to cast his eyes where
the prisoners were, and observed the oldest roll up a large piece of printed calico, and put
it into a basket, which her little sister carried: the witness immediately advanced to her,
and asked if she had taken any thing from off the counter; but she positively asserted that
she had not. However, on searching her basket, the calico was found; together with a piece
of muslin, which Mr. Cornell identified as belonging to him, and to have been taken in the
above way. Mr. Allen questioned the eldest girl about the robbery, but she positively denied
any knowledge as to how, or in what manner, the calico and muslin had got into her basket,
frequently appealing to her little sister to confirm the truth of what she declared. When asked
if she had ever been charged with any offence, she replied, 'O yes, sir, some time back I was
accused of stealing a watch from a house, but I did not do it.' The magistrate observed, that
the father should be made acquainted with the circumstance, and, in the mean time, gave the
gaoler instructions that the two little delinquents should be taken care of.

"Hall, the officer, stated that he had information that there was a quantity of goods, which
had been stolen by the prisoners, concealed in a certain desk in the house of the father; and
that a great deal of stolen property would, in all probability, be found there, if a search
warrant were granted, as the two unfortunate children were believed to be most extensive depredators.

"Mr. Allen immediately granted the warrant; and Hall, accompanied by Mr. Cornell, proceeded
to the residence of the father of the children, who is an auctioneer and appraiser, at 12,
Lyon Street, Newington.

"Hall returned in half an hour with the father in his custody, and produced a great quantity
of black silk handkerchiefs, which he had found on the premises; but the desk, which had been
spoken of by his informers as containing stolen property, he had found quite empty. The father,
when questioned by the witness as to whether he had any duplicates of property in his possession,
positively denied that fact. At the office he was searched, and about fifty duplicates were
found in his pockets, most of which were for silk handkerchiefs and shawls. There were also
a few rings, for the possession of which the prisoner could not satisfactorily account. He
was asked why he had assured the officer he had no duplicates? He replied, that he had not
said so; but Mr. Cornell, who was present during the search, averred that the prisoner had
most positively declared that he had not a pawnbroker's duplicate in his possession.

"Mr. Watt, a linen-draper, of Harper Street, Kent Road, stated that he attended in consequence
of seeing the police reports in the newspapers, describing the two children; he immediately
recognised the two little girls as having frequently called at his shop for trifling articles;
and added, that he had been robbed of a variety of silk handkerchiefs and shawls, and he had
no doubt but that the prisoners were the thieves. It was their practice, he said, to go into
a shop, and call for a quarter of a yard of muslin, and while the shopkeeper was engaged, the
eldest would very dexterously slip whatever article was nearest, to her little sister, who
was trained to the business, and would thrust the stolen property into a basket which she always
carried for that purpose. Mr. Watt identified the silk handkerchiefs as his property, and said
that they had been stolen in the above manner by the prisoners.

"The father was asked where he had got the handkerchiefs? He replied, that he had bought them
from a pedlar for half-a-crown a piece at his door. However, his eldest daughter contradicted
him by acknowledging that her sister had stolen them from the shop of Mr. Watt. He became dreadfully
agitated, and then said--'What could I say? Surely I was not to criminate my own children!'

"Mr. Allen observed, that there was a clear case against the two children, but after consulting
with the other magistrates, he was of opinion that the youngest child should be given up into
the charge of the parish officers of Newington, as she was too young to go into a prison, and
desired that the other girl should be remanded, in order to have some of the pledged goods
produced. The father was committed in default of bail for receiving stolen goods. The child
has since been found guilty. The prosecutor stated that the family consisted of five children,
not one of whom could read or write!"

Another very cruel practice of these young delinquents is, to go into some chandlers shop as
slily as possible, and take the first opportunity of stealing the till with its contents, there
being always some older thief ready to take charge of it, as soon as the child removes it from
the shop.[A] Many a poor woman has had to lament the loss of her till, with its contents, taken
by a child, perhaps, scarcely six years of age. There is always a plan laid down for the child
to act upon. Should he be unable to obtain possession of the till himself, he is instructed
to pretend that he has missed his way, and to inquire for some street near the spot; or, he
will address her with, "Please, ma'am, can you tell me what it is o'clock?" The unsuspecting
woman, with the greatest kindness possible, shews the child the street he inquires for, or
leaves the shop to ascertain the hour, and for her civility, she is sure to find herself robbed,
when she returns, by some of the child's companions. Should he be detected in actual possession
of the property, he is instructed to act his part in the most artful manner, by pretending
that some man sent him into the shop to take it, who told him that he would give him sixpence
to buy cakes.

[Footnote A: So complete is the science of pilfering rendered by its perpetrators, that they
have even a peculiar vocabulary of their own, rendering their conversation, to those who may
chance to overhear them, as mysterious and incomprehensible as though they were conversing
in a foreign tongue; for instance, the scutcheons they steal from the key holes are called
porcupines; brass weights, lueys; while purloining the contents of a till, is called taking
the ding. In short, they have a peculiar name for almost every thing.]

It is not uncommon for these young offenders to stop children, whom they may meet in the street
unprotected, and either by artifice or violence, take from them their hats, necklaces, &c.,
thus initiating themselves, as it were, into the desperate crime of assault and highway robbery.

Young as the subjects of the foregoing narrations mostly were, I have little doubt their pupilage
commenced at a much earlier age; they could not otherwise have attained so much proficiency
in the practice of crime, and hardihood on detection. However possible it maybe thought to
reclaim children of so tender an age, I am convinced that thieves of more advanced years become
so thoroughly perverted in their wills and understandings, as to be incapable of perceiving
the disgrace of their conduct, or the enormity of the offence. I was once told by an old thief
that thieving was his profession, and he had therefore a right to follow it; and I could plainly
discover from further conversation with him, that he had established in himself an opinion
that thieving was no harm, provided he used no violence to the person; he seemed, indeed, to
have no other idea of the rights of property, than that described as the maxim of a celebrated
Scottish outlaw,--that

  "They should take who have the power,
  And they should keep who can."

When this most lamentable state is reached, it is to be feared all modes of punishment, as
correctives, are useless; and the only thing left is to prevent further depredation by banishment.

The incorrigibility which a child may attain, who has once associated with thieves at an early
age, is apparent from the following fact. "Richard Leworthy, aged fourteen, was indicted for
stealing five sovereigns, the property of William Newling, his master. The prosecutor stated,
that he resided in the Commercial Road, and is by business a tailor; the prisoner had been
his apprentice for four months, up to the 28th of August, when he committed the robbery. On
that day he gave him five pounds to take to Mr. Wells, of Bishopsgate Street, to discharge
a bill; he never went, nor did he return home; he did not hear of him for three weeks, when
he found him at Windsor, and apprehended him. The prisoner admitted having applied the money
to his own use. He was found at a public house, and said he had spent all his money except
one shilling and six pence. A shopman in the service of Mr. Wells, stated that in August last
the witness owed his master a sum of money; he knew the prisoner; he did not bring money to
their shop, either on or since the 28th of August. The prisoner made no defence, but called
his master, who said he received him from the Refuge for the Destitute, and had a good character
with him. He would not take him back again. Mr. Wontner stated, that he had received two communications
from the Rev. Mr. Crosby, the chaplain of the institution, stating they would not interfere
on his behalf. The jury returned a verdict of guilty. Mr. Justice Park observed, that the best
course would be to send him out of the country."

Here we see, that notwithstanding the discipline he had undergone, and the instructions he
had received during his confinement in the establishment of the Refuge for the Destitute, he
had not been more than four months from that place before he fell into his old habits. It is
moreover to be remarked, that such had been his conduct during his confinement, that the directors
of the establishment thought themselves war ranted in giving a good character with him. They
were probably little surprised on hearing of this relapse on the part of the boy,--experience
had doubtless taught them it was no uncommon thing, and we plainly see they were convinced
that all further attempts at reclaiming him were useless.

The facility with which property maybe disposed of, should be mentioned as a powerful inducement
to crime. The following case suggests it to the mind:

Thomas Jackson, a mere child, not more than nine years of age, was charged some time ago at
the Town Hall, with committing a burglary on the premises of Mr. James Whitelock, a master
builder, Griffith's Rents, St. Thomas's, Southwark. Mr. Whitelock, it appears, resided in an
old mansion, formerly an inn, which he had divided into two separate tenements, occupying one
part himself, and letting the other to the parents of the prisoner. In this division he had
deposited building materials to a considerable amount, one hundred weight of which, in iron
holdfasts, hinges, nails, clamps, &c., he missed one day on entering the room, the door of
which had been blocked by a large copper, and the partition door forced. The character of the
prisoner being of the worst description, he was apprehended, when he confessed he had taken
all the property, and disposed of it to a woman, named Priscilla Fletcher, the keeper of a
marine store, 34, James Street. The receiver, who is the last of the family that has not been
either hanged or transported, refused to swear to the prisoner, though she admitted she believed
he was the person she bought the property produced from, at the rate of one penny for each
three pounds. It was proved to be worth three half-pence per pound. Alderman J.J. Smith regretted
that the deficiency of evidence prevented him sending the young delinquent for trial, and thereby
rescuing him from an ignominious death, and told Mrs. Priscilla, who was all modesty, that
he was convinced she had perjured herself,--and not to exult at her own escape from transportation,
a reward he could not help considering she richly merited, and which in due season she would
doubtless receive.

The hardened child laughed during the hearing, and on being sentenced, by the oath of the officers,
as a reputed thief, spit at his accuser, and exclaimed, as he was taken from the bar to be
conveyed to Brixton,--"Is this all? I'll torment you yet!"

To add one more case, I may state that, at the Exeter Sessions, some time since, two children
were convicted, who, it is believed, were not above ten years of age. Previously to this they
had been convicted of felony, and had suffered six months imprisonment at Bodmin; and it appears
that two years before, they started alone from Bristol on this circuit of youthful depredation.

Having collected the foregoing instances of juvenile delinquency, and presented them to the
public, I cannot refrain from adducing a few other cases which came under my own observation.

Whilst conducting the Spitalfields' Infant School, several instances of dishonesty in the children
occurred. On one occasion the mother herself came to complain of a little boy, not more than
four years old, on the following grounds. She stated, that being obliged to be out at work
all day, as well as her husband, she was under the necessity of leaving the children by themselves.
She had three besides the little boy of whom she was complaining. Having to pay her rent, she
put eighteen-pence for that purpose in a cup at the top of a cupboard. On stepping home to
give the children their dinners, she found the boy at the cupboard, mounted on a chair, which
again was placed on the top of a table. On looking for the money, she found four-pence already
gone; one penny of this she found in his pocket, the rest he had divided amongst the other
children, that they might not tell of him. After this relation I kept a strict watch on the
child, and three or four days afterwards the children detected him opening my desk, and taking
half-pence out of it. They informed me of this, and while they were bringing him up to me the
half-pence dropped out of his hand. I detected him in many other very bad actions, but have
reason to hope, that, by suitable discipline and instruction, he was effectually cured of his
sad propensities.

About the same time, I observed two little children very near the school-house in close conversation,
and from their frequently looking at a fruit-stall that was near, I felt inclined to watch
them; having previously heard from some of the pupils, that they had frequently seen children
in the neighbourhood steal oysters and other things. I accordingly placed myself in a convenient
situation, and had not long to wait, for the moment they saw there was no one passing, they
went up to the stall, the eldest walking alongside the other, apparently to prevent his being
seen, whilst the little one snatched an orange, and conveyed it under his pinafore, with all
the dexterity of an experienced thief. The youngest of these children was not four years old,
and the eldest, apparently, not above five. There was reason to believe this was not the first
time they had been guilty of stealing, though, perhaps, unknown to their parents, as I have
found to be the case in other instances.

Another little boy in the school, whose mother kept a little shop, frequently brought money
with him,--as much as three-pence at a time. On questioning the child how he came by it, he
always said that his mother gave it to him, and I thought there was no reason to doubt his
word, for there was something so prepossessing in his appearance, that, at the time, I could
not doubt the truth of his story. But finding that the child spent a great deal of money in
fruit, cakes, &c., and still had some remaining, I found it advisable to see the mother, and
to my astonishment found it all a fiction, for she had not given him any, and we were both
at a loss to conceive how he obtained it. The child told me his mother gave it to him; and
he told his mother that it was given to him at school; but when he was confronted with us both,
not a word would he say. It was evident, therefore, that he had obtained it by some unfair
means, and we both determined to suspend our judgment, and to keep a strict eye on him in future.
Nothing, however, transpired for some time;--I followed him home several times, but saw nothing
amiss. At length I received notice from the mother, that she had detected taking money out
of the till, in her little shop. It then came out that there was some boy in the neighbourhood
who acted as banker to him, and for every two pence which he received, he was allowed one penny
for taking care of it. It seems that the child was afraid to bring any more money to school,
on account of being so closely questioned as to where he obtained it, and this, probably, induced
him to give more to the boy than he otherwise would have done. Suffice it, however, to say,
that both children at length were found out, and the mother declared that the child conducted
her to some old boards in the wash-house, and underneath them there was upwards of a shilling,
which he had pilfered at various times.

The reader may remember too, that during the autumn of 1833, a boy of fourteen committed suicide,
and that another of the same age was convicted of the dreadful crime of murder.

It appears he knew a boy a little younger than himself, who was going to a distance with some
money, and having taken a pocket-knife with him, he way-laid him and threatened to murder him.
The poor little victim kneeled down,--offered him his money, his knife, and all he had, and
said he would love him all the days of his life if he would spare him, and never tell what
had happened; but the pathetic and forcible appeal, which would have melted many a ruffian-heart,
was vain:--the little monster stabbed him in the throat, and then robbed him. On his trial
he discovered no feeling, and he even heard his sentence with the utmost indifference, and
without a tear.

It would have been easy to multiply cases of juvenile delinquency, both those which have been
brought under the cognizance of the law, and those which have come to my own knowledge, but
I think enough has been related to shew how early children may, and do become depraved. I have
purposely given most of them with as few remarks of my own as possible, that they may plead
their own cause with the reader, and excite a desire in his bosom to enter with me, in the
next chapter, on an inquiry into the causes of such early depravity.

Since the above incidents and facts were observed, and reports from the public prints were
recorded, general attention has been drawn more fully to the very great increase of ignorance,
demoralization, and crime, amongst the lower classes, both old and young. These things call
on us most loudly for active effort and exertion; and it becomes the patriot and philanthropist,
but especially the Christian, to look around, to think and to consider what effectual means
may be found, and what efficient plans may be adopted to strike the evil fatally at its roots,
and cause it to wither away. If these things be not done, the moral pestilence must increase,
and eventually deprive us of all that is dear to us as men, and citizens.

       *       *       *       *       *

  "Why thus surprised to see the infant race
  Treading the paths of vice? Their eyes can trace
  Their parents' footsteps in the way they go:
  What shame, what fear, then, can their young hearts know?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Appalling as the effects of juvenile delinquency are, I think we may discover a principal cause
of them in the present condition and habits of the adult part of the labouring classes. We
shall find, very frequently, that infant crime is the only natural produce of evil, by the
infallible means of precept and example. I do not intend to assert, that the majority of parents
amongst the poor, actually encourage their children in the commission of theft; we may, indeed,
fear that some do; as in the instance of the two little girls detected in shop-lifting, whose
case was detailed in the preceding chapter; but still, I should hope that such facts are not
frequent. If, however, they do not give them positive encouragement in pilfering, the example
they set is often calculated to deprave the heart of the child, and, amongst other evil consequences,
to induce dishonesty; whilst in other cases we find, that from peculiar circumstances the child
is deprived, during the whole day, of the controling presence of a parent, and is exposed to
all the poisonous contamination which the streets of large cities afford; and hence appears
another cause of evil. Here children come in contact with maturer vice, and are often drawn
by its influence from the paths of innocence; as we have already seen in many instances. What
resistance can the infant make to the insidious serpents, which thus, as it, were, steal into
its cradle, and infuse their poison into its soul? The guardians of its helplessness are heedless
or unconscious of its danger, and, alas! it has not the fabled strength of the infant Hercules
to crush its venomous assailants. Surely such a view of the frequent origin of crime must awaken
our commiseration for its miserable victims, and excite in us a desire to become the defenders
of the unprotected.

It will, however, be said by some, "Where are the natural guardians of the child? Where are
its parents? Are we to encourage their neglect of duty, by becoming their substitutes? It is
their business to look after their children, and not ours." Frequently have I heard such sentiments
put forth, and sometimes by persons in whom I knew they were rather owing to a want of reflection
than of philanthropy. But a want of thought, or of feeling, it must certainly be; because,
on no principle of reason or humanity can we make the unnatural conduct of fathers and mothers,
a plea for withholding our protection and assistance from the helpless objects of their cruelty
and neglect. If we do so, we not only neglect our duty towards such children, but permit the
growth and extension of the evil. We must recollect that they will not merely play their own
wicked parts during their lives, but will also become models to the next generation.

It should be remembered here, that I am treating of an evil which extends itself to all classes
of society; I am appealing to the prudence of men, that they may, for their own sakes, investigate
its cause; I shall hereafter appeal to them as philanthropists, and, still more urgently, as
Christians, that they may examine the merits of the remedy I shall propose.

The culpability of many parents is beyond dispute. They not only omit to set their children
good examples, and give them good advice, but, on the contrary, instil into their minds the
first rudiments of wickedness, and lead them into the paths of vice. Their homes present scenes
which human nature shudders at, and which it is impossible truly to describe. There are parents
who, working at home, have every opportunity of training up their children "in the way they
should go," if they were inclined so to do. Instead of this, we often find, in the case of
the fathers, that they are so lost to every principle of humanity, that as soon as they receive
their wages, they leave their homes, and hasten with eager steps to the public house; nor do
they re-pass its accursed threshold, till the vice-fattening landlord has received the greater
part of the money which should support their half-fed, half-clothed wives and children; and
till they have qualified themselves, by intoxication, to act worse than brutes on their return
home. To men of this description it matters not whether or not their children are proving themselves
skilful imitators of their evil example,--they may curse and swear, lie and steal,--so long
as they can enjoy the society of their pot companions, it is to them a matter of total indifference.

During my superintendence of the first school, I had a painful facility of examining these
matters. Frequently, when I have inquired the cause of the wretched plight in which some of
the children were sent to the school,--perhaps with scarcely a shoe to their feet, sometimes
altogether without,--I have heard from their mothers the most heart-rending recitals of the
husband's misconduct. One family in particular I remember, consisting of seven children, two
of whom were in the school; four of them were supported entirely by the exertions of the mother,
who declared to me, that she did not receive a shilling from their father for a month together;
all the money he got he kept to spend at the public-house; and his family, for what he cared,
might go naked, or starve. He was not only a great drunkard, but a reprobate into the bargain;
beating and abusing the poor woman, who thus endeavoured to support his children by her labour.

The evil does not always stop here. Driven to the extreme of wretchedness by her husband's
conduct, the woman sometimes takes to drinking likewise, and the poor babes are ten thousand
times more pitiable than orphans. I have witnessed the revolting sight of a child leading home
both father and mother from the public-house, in a disgusting state of intoxication. With tears
and entreaties I have seen the poor infant vainly endeavouring to restrain them from increasing
their drunkenness, by going into the houses on their way home; they have shaken off the clinging
child, who, in the greatest anxiety, waited without to resume its painful task; knowing, all
the time, perhaps, that whilst its parents were thus throwing away their money, there was not
so much as a crust of bread to appease its hunger at home. Let it not be thought that this
is an overcharged picture of facts; it is but a faint, a very faint and imperfect sketch of
reality which defies exaggeration. Cases of such depravity, on the part of mothers, I with
much pleasure confess to be comparatively rare. Maternal affection is the preventive. But what,
let me ask, can be hoped of the children of such parents? What are their characters likely
to become under such tuition? With such examples before their eyes, need they leave their homes
to seek contamination, or to learn to do evil.

And here I must say, if I were asked to point out, in the metropolis, or any large city, the
greatest nuisance, the worst bane of society, the most successful promoter of vice,--I should,
without a moment's hesitation, point to the first public-house or spirit dealer's that met
my view. Nor can I, in speaking of the causes of juvenile delinquency, omit to say, I think
these houses, indirectly, a very great cause of it. Why I think so, my readers will readily
conceive from what I have already said. I am sure that Satan has no temple in which he is so
devoutly worshiped, or so highly honoured, as the ale-house,--no priest is so devoted as its
landlord,--no followers are so zealous in his behalf as its frequenters.

Let any one in the evening visit the homes of the labouring class in a poor neighbourhood,
and he will find, in many cases, a barely-furnished room, a numerous family of small children,--perhaps
forgetting the pangs of hunger in the obliviousness of sleep,--a wife, with care-worn features,
sitting in solitary wretchedness, ruminating on wants she knows not how to supply--namely,
clothes and food for her children on the morrow, and on debts which she has no means of discharging.
But where is he who should be sharing her cares, bidding her be of good cheer, and devising
with her some means of alleviating their mutual distress? Where is the father of the sleeping
babes, the husband of the watchful wife? Go to the public-house; you will see him there with
a host of his companions, of like character and circumstances, smoking, drinking, singing,
blaspheming, gambling--ruining his health, spending his money; as jovial as though he had no
wretched wife, no starving babes at home! and as lavish of money which should procure them
food, as the man who is thriving on his excesses could wish him to be.

I never look on a public-house without considering it as the abode of the evil genius of the
neighbourhood; the despoiler of industry, the destroyer of domestic comfort; and heartily do
I wish, that some means could be devised for abolishing these resorts of wickedness; that some
legislative enactment may render it unlawful for any one to keep such places. With respect
to a peculiar sort of beverage, it has been declared to be illegal to afford its purchasers
accommodation for drinking it on the premises. Why not extend it to other liquors? I know this
would be pronounced an infringement on English liberty! The worst of men would raise this outcry
against the measure. But surely it should rather be called a preventive of English licentiousness.
All good men would consider it as such. I would not rob the labourer of his daily allowance
of a beverage which is believed by many to be of essential service, when taken in moderation;
but I would have him drink it at home, that his wife and children may participate in his enjoyment.
Perhaps, it will be said, a man closely confined to labour all day, needs some relaxation from
domestic cares--that this can only be found in change of scene, and in social company. I will
concede this. The plea of health, though often speciously advanced, cannot be denied. But is
it necessary for his health, that this change of scene should be found in a close tap-room,
within a few yards of his home, where he drinks to a ruinous excess till a late hour,--breathing
all the while a hot atmosphere of tobacco-smoke? Is it not possible to obtain the change of
scene, and the relaxation of social converse, by mutual visits amongst friends similarly situated,--by
a ramble to the suburbs,--or, in cases where the daily occupation affords too little opportunity
for exercise, are there not places established for gymnastic exercises,--and might not others
be formed for the like purposes? Certain I am that the abolition of public-houses, in large
cities, as places of daily resort for the adult labouring poor, would be attended with the
most salutary consequences. I know of nothing that must so certainly tend to their improvement
both in character and circumstances.

No man can witness the scenes, and doings, of many persons who attend the new beer-houses,
without pain and regret, that ever an act of parliament was passed to legalize such places.
I have visited some hundreds of such, throughout the country, and can positively assert that
the demoralising tendency of too many is awful! Our magistrates must be more careful in granting
licences, or the efforts of the wise and good will be neutralized, by the evils concocted at
such places. The old inkeepers had a character, and capital at stake. The new beerhouse-keepers,
I should say, a majority of them at least, have neither, and consequently are less cautious,
having less to lose. Whatever the end of the legislature might have been in enabling the poor
to procure a good and cheap article more easily, to be drunk on or off the premises, the thing
has not answered the end, and no one can deny, who will take the trouble to visit such places
in different counties, that the Act has been a miserable failure, and has been the fruitful
source of crime and immorality. What a lesson is this for speculative, short sighted legislators?

Another measure should then be adopted, I would say--destroy the facility of spirit-drinking,
by laying on a heavy duty. It is in vain that interested sophistry would plead its benefits
in particular cases--such, for instance, as the ludicrous plea of the needfulness of drams
for market-women on wet and frosty mornings.[A] Set these specious benefits against the dreadful
results to men's health and pockets, from the present low price of spirits, and their consequent
enormous consumption; and then let common sense and honesty deliver its judgment.

I have spoken thus candidly and at length upon the subject in the present chapter, though somewhat
out of place, because my feelings would not allow me to be less plain or more brief, or to
postpone the matter to "a more convenient season." Perhaps in talking of legislative alterations
I have been wandering upon forbidden ground; if so, in returning to my proper path, I will
comfort myself with this thought:--the progress of improvement, however slow, is sure, and
it is certainly advancing in this country; I require no other assurance than the establishment
of Infant Schools and Mechanic's.

[Footnote A: Some conception of the fearful height which drunkenness has attained, may be gathered
from the fact, that in 1829, the quantity of distilled spirits on which the duty was paid in
the three kingdoms, amounted to 23,000,000 of gallons. To form a due estimate, however, of
the actual consumption, an immense quantity must be added, obtained by smuggling. Of the rum
imported for home consumption, allowing for that re-exported, the quantity was 5,000,000 of
gallons. Of brandy and other articles imported, 1,500,000 gallons; making a total, with the
omission of all on which the duty was evaded, of 30,000,000 of gallons of ardent spirits consumed
in the year. Five millions of revenue grew out of this, but it cost the people 15,000,000l.
sterling, a which would have paid half-a-year's interest of the national debt.]

"No person," says Sir Astley Cooper "has greater hostility to dram drinking than myself, insomuch
that I never suffer any ardent spirits in my house--thinking them evil spirits!--and if the
poor could witness the white livers, the dropsies, the shattered nervous systems which I love
seen as the consequence of drinking, they would be aware that spirits and poisons were synonymous
terms."

Institutions; it will advance, and what the legislature may never be able to accomplish, the
spirit of improvement eventually will.

But having considered those cases, in which wilful neglect and bad example may be charged upon
the parents, we should not forget to tell those who object to our interference in the duty
of a child's natural protectors, that it is not, in every instance, from wilful neglect on
their part, that their children are left unprotected in the streets. The circumstances of the
labouring classes are such, in many cases, that they are compelled to leave their children
either wholly unprotected, or in the charge of some one who frequently becomes a betrayer instead
of a defender. The father, perhaps, goes to his daily labour in the morning, before the children
are out of bed, and does not return till they are in bed again at night. The mother goes out
in like manner, the earnings of the husband being insufficient for the maintenance of the family,
and the children are intrusted throughout the day to the care of some girl, whose parents are
as poor as themselves, and are glad to let her earn something towards her support. Numbers
of little girls thus go out before they are twelve years old, and teach the little children
all they know,--commonly to be deceitful, and not unfrequently to be dishonest. The parents,
careless or unsuspecting, only make inquiry when they return home if the children have been
good and quiet, and of course receive an answer in the affirmative. In the course of a few
years the evil consequences begin to show themselves, and then the good folks wonder how or
when the seeds of such depravity could have been sown. Many I know will be inclined to smile
at the insignificancy of the cause pointed out. I can only say, it is from such springs, however
regarded, that the great stream of vice is supplied; and what we laugh at now, for its insignificant
origin, will hereafter, in its maturity, laugh at us for our impotence, in vainly endeavouring
to stem it. What are parents to do with their children, situated as those are of whom we have
just spoken? And very many are so situated. Is it possible for them to perform their duty,
as protectors of their children? It requires all their time to labour for their support, and
they therefore leave them, unavoidably, either in such hands as we have described, or to take
care of themselves; to range the streets, and form such associations as may there happen to
fall in their way. They get into company with older delinquents, and become first their instruments,
and then their associates; till at length they find their way into a gaol.

This is no delusive way of accounting for the matter,--it is a solution which experience and
observation have taught and established. I have traced the progress of delinquency, in actual
life, from its earliest stages,--from the little trembling pilferer of the apple-stall, not
more than four or five years old, to the confirmed thief of nine or ten years--who had been
in gaol three or four times, and was as proud of his dexterity in thieving, and hardihood under
punishment, as he could have been of the most virtuous accomplishment, or the most becoming
fortitude. The infant thief, conscious of shame, and trembling with fear, will tell you on
detection, that "Tommy," or "Billy," some older associate, set him to do it; you let him go:
he joins his companions, who laugh at the story he tells, ridicule him for his fears, praise
him for his dexterity, and rejoice in his escape. It will be very easy to imagine how, under
a course of such treatment, the young offender so soon dismisses both shame and fear; and learns
to forget everything but the gain and glory of his crimes.

It is no small matter of credit with older thieves--(by older thieves I still mean boys of
nine or ten years old)--to have under their tuition two or three pupils. I have seen in my
walks as many as seven or eight sallying forth from the alleys in the neighbourhood of Spitalfields,
under the command, as it were, of a leader, a boy perhaps not more than nine or ten years old.
I have watched their plans, and have noticed that it was usual to send first the youngest boy
to attempt the theft--perhaps the object to be obtained was only a bun from the open window
of a pastry-cook's shop; if he failed, another was sent, whilst the rest were lurking at the
corner of some court, ready to flee in case their companion was detected; and I have sometimes
seen, that after all the rest had failed, either from want of skill, or the too great vigilance
of the shop-keeper, the boy who acted as leader has started out, and by a display of superior
dexterity, would have carried off the prize, had it not happened that some one was thus purposely
watching his conduct. When detected, if an old offender, he will either look you in tire face
with the greatest effrontery and an expression of defiance, or he will feign to cry, and tell
you he was hungry, has no father nor mother, &c.; though frequently, on further inquiry, I
have found the whole story to be false.

Alas! there is one class of children, with whom I know not how to deal, I mean those without
the natural protectors. The man can for a more trifle get rid of all responsibility, though
in general, most able to bear it, the woman has the dead weight, which often proves the destruction
of her offspring, and herself, suicide and murder are the first-fruits frequently to her, but
she loves her offspring, and perhaps he who deceived her, and for both their sakes fights the
battle against fearful odds; for a few years at least, she will not last long, at length she
sinks! she dies! where, oh! where! is the guardian for her child! Reader, there are many thousands
of such! What becomes of them? But there are other mothers of this class, more ignorant, have
less of feeling, no education, no training, they advance from bad to worse, until they have
five or six children, here are circumstances for children to come into the world grievously
against them. What becomes of these? To avoid painful details I will answer the question, they
become a pest to society, each a demoralizer of others, living upon the public--as tramps,
begging impostors, thieves, teachers of thieves, and cost the country more than five times
their number born under other and better circumstances. God grant that spiritual light, philosophical
light, and scientific light united, may enable us to find the remedy!

The two grand causes of juvenile delinquency, we have seen then, to be the evil example of
parents themselves; and the bad associations which children form at an early age, when, through
neglect, they are suffered to be in the streets. In the first instance, the parents of the
children are wholly without excuse; in the second, though in some cases we may blame them,
in others we cannot justly do so; but must admit, as an exculpation, the unfortunate circumstances
of their condition in life.

It would be easy to shew, by a multitude of instances, the evil effects produced on children
of a tender age by street associations. But I think enough has been said to convince every
reflecting mind that it is highly necessary that we should interfere in behalf of children
so situated; and I shall conclude the present chapter by some remarks on the various habits
and practices of the poor classes, which have at least an injurious tendency on the character
of the rising generation.

As children are such imitative beings, I cannot help making a few observations on the tricks
which are usually introduced into our pantomimes. It is well known that those of the clown
form a principal part of the entertainment. It is also equally well known, that the pantomimes
are particularly designed to amuse children, for which reason they are generally represented
during the Christmas holidays, If, however, they were merely intended to amuse them, they who
have introduced them have, perhaps, gained their object; but what kind of instruction they
afford, I shall here attempt to shew. I do not recollect to have seen a pantomime myself without
pilfering being introduced under every possible form, such as shop lifting, picking pockets,
&c. &c. Can it then be for a moment supposed improbable that children, after having witnessed
these exhibitions, should endeavour to put the thing into practice, whenever an opportunity
offers, and try whether they cannot take a handkerchief from a gentleman's pocket with the
same ease and dexterity as the clown in the play did; or, if unsuccessful in this part of the
business, that they should try their prowess in carrying off a shoulder of mutton from a butcher's
shop,--a loaf from a baker,--or lighter articles from the pastry-cools, fruiterer, or linen-draper?
For, having seen the dexterity of the clown, in these cases, they will not be at a loss for
methods to accomplish, by sleight of hand, their several purposes. In my humble opinion, children
cannot go to a better place for instruction in these matters, or to a place more calculated
to teach them the art of pilfering to perfection, than to the theatre, when pantomimes are
performed. To say that the persons who write and introduce these pieces are in want of sense,
may not be true; but I must charge them with a want of sufficient thought, right feeling and
principle, in not calculating on their baneful effects on the rising generation, for whose
amusement it appears they are chiefly produced. Many unfortunate persons, who have heard sentence
of death passed upon them, or who are now suffering under the law, in various ways, have had
to lament that the first seeds of vice were sown in their minds while viewing the pilfering
tricks of clowns in pantomimes. Alas! too little do we calculate on the direful effects of
this species of amusement on the future character of the young. We first permit their minds
to be poisoned, by offering them the draught, and then punish them by law for taking it. Does
not the wide world afford a variety of materials sufficient for virtuous imitation, without
descending to that which is vicious? It is much easier to make a pail of pure water foul, than
it is to make a pail of foul water pure. It must not be supposed that I wish to sweep off every
kind of amusement from the juvenile part of society, but I do wish to sweep off all that has
a pernicious tendency. The limits which I have prescribed to myself will not allow me to enter
more at large into this subject; otherwise I could produce a number of facts which would prove,
most unquestionably, the propriety of discontinuing these exhibitions.

A conversation which I once heard between some boys who were playing at what is called pitch-in-the-hole,
will prove the truth of my assertions. "Bill," said one of the boys to the other, "when did
you go to the play last?" "On Monday night," was the reply. "Did you see the new pantomime?"--"Yes."
"Well, did you see any fun?"--"Yes, I believe I did too. I saw the clown bone a whole hank
of sausages, and put them into his pocket, and then pour the gravy in after them. You would
have split your sides with laughing, had you been there. A.B. and C.D. were with me, and they
laughed as much as I did. And what do you think A.B. did the next night?"--"How should I know."--"Why,"
replied the other, "he and C.D. boned about two pounds of sausages from a pork shop, and we
had them for supper." This conversation I heard from a window, which looked into a ruinous
place where boys assembled to toss up for money, and other games. This fact alone, without
recording any more, is sufficient to show the evil of which I have been speaking. And I do
most sincerely hope that those persons who have any influence over the stage, will use their
utmost endeavours, speedily, to expunge every thing thus calculated to promote evil inclinations
in the minds of children, and vicious habits in the lives of men.

It is not impossible that scenic exhibitions might be made a most powerful means of instruction
to the young, and tend to promote virtue and happiness, as well as be a means of rational amusement,
but as they now exist, their extirpation is desirable.

As I have had much experience from being brought up in London, I am perfectly aware of the
evil impressions and dangerous temptations that the children of the poor are liable to fall
into; and therefore most solemnly affirm that nothing in my view would give so much happiness
to the community at large, as the taking care of the affections of the infant children of the poor.

There is, moreover, a practice very prevalent among the poor, which does greater mischief than
the people are generally aware of, and that is, sending their children to the pawnbrokers.
It is well known that many persons send children, scarcely seven years of age, to these people,
with pledges of various sorts, a thing that cannot be too severely condemned. I know an instance
of a little boy finding a shawl in the street; and being in the habit of going to the pawnbroker's
for his mother, instead of taking the shawl home to his parents, he actually pawned it and
spent all the money, which might never have been known by his parents, had not the mother found
the duplicate in his pocket. It is evident, then, that many parents have no one but themselves
to blame for the misconduct of their children; for had this child not been accustomed to go
to such a place for his parents, he would never have thought of going there for himself; and
the shawl most likely would have been carried home to them. Indeed, there is no knowing where
such a system will end, for if the children are suffered to go to such places, they may in
time pledge that which does not belong to them; and so easy is the way of turning any article
into money, that we find most young thieves, of both sexes, when apprehended, have some duplicates
about them. Those persons, therefore, who take pledges of children (contrary to the act of
parliament, whether they know it or not,) ought to be severely reprimanded; for I am persuaded,
that such conduct is productive of very great mischief indeed.

Taking children to fairs, is another thing which is also productive of much harm. At the commencement
of the first school, seventy or eighty children were frequently absent whenever there was a
fair near London; but the parents were afterwards cured of this, and we seldom had above twenty
absentees at fair-time. Several of the children have told me that their parents wished to take
them, but they requested to be permitted to come to school instead. Indeed the parents, finding
that they can enjoy themselves better without their children, are very willing to leave them
at school.

It is a difficult matter to persuade grown persons of the impropriety of attending fairs, who
have been accustomed to it when children; but children are easily persuaded from it; for if
they are properly entertained at school, they will not have the least desire to go to such places.

I cannot quit this subject without relating one or two more very bad habits to which children
are addicted, and which are, perhaps, fit subjects for the consideration of the Mendicity Society.
As it is the object of that society to clear the streets of beggars, it would be well if they
would put a stop to those juvenile beggars, many of whom are children of respectable parents,
who assemble together to build what they call a GROTTO; to the great annoyance of all passengers
in the street. However desirous persons may be of encouraging ingenuity in children, I think
it is doing them much harm to give them money when they ask for it in this way. Indeed it would
appear, that some of the children have learned the art of begging so well, that they are able
to vie with the most experienced mendicants. Ladies in particular are very much annoyed by
children getting before them and asking for money; nor will they take the answer given them,
but put their hats up to the ladies' faces, saying, "Please, ma'am, remember the grotto;" and
when told by the parties that they have no money to give, they will still continue to follow,
and be as importunate as any common beggar. However innocent and trifling this may appear to
some, I am inclined to believe that such practices tend to evil, for they teach children to
be mean, and may cause some of them to choose begging rather than work. I think that the best
way to stop this species of begging is, never to give them any thing. A fact which came under
my own observation will shew that the practice may be productive of mischief. A foreign gentleman
walking up Old Street Road, was surrounded by three or four boys, saying, "Please, sir, remember
the grotto."--"Go away," was the reply, "I will give you none." To this followed, "Do, pray
sir, remember the grotto." "No, I tell you, I will give you nothing." "Do, sir, only once a-year."
At length, I believe, he put something into one of their hats, and thus got rid of them; but
he had scarcely gone 200 yards, before he came to another grotto, and out sallied three more
boys, with the same importunate request: he replied, "I will give you nothing; plague have
you and your grotto." The boys however persevered, till the gentleman, having lost all patience,
gave one of them a gentle tap to get out of the way, but the boy being on the side of the foot-path
fell into the mud, which had been scraped off the road, and in this pickle followed the gentleman,
bellowing out, "That man knocked me down in the mud, and I had done nothing to him." In consequence,
a number of persons soon collected, who insulted the gentleman very much, and he would certainly
have been roughly handled, had he not given the boy something as a recompence. He then called
a coach, declaring he could not walk the streets of London in safety.

Those who know what mischief has arisen from very trifling causes, will, of course, perceive
the necessity of checking this growing evil; for this man went away with very unfavourable
impressions concerning our country, and would, no doubt, prejudice many against us, and make
them suppose we are worse than we are.

Nearly allied to this is, "Pray remember poor Guy Faux;" which not only teaches children the
art of begging, but is frequently the means of their becoming dishonest, for I have known children
break down fences, and water-spouts, and, in short, any thing that they could lay their hands
upon, in order to make a bonfire, to the great danger of the inhabitants near it, without producing
one good effect. Yet how easily might this practice be put down. The ill effects of it are
so self-evident, that there can be no need for further enlargement.

I also disapprove of children going about begging at Christmas; this practice is calculated
to instil into the children's minds a principle of meanness not becoming the English character,
and the money they get, seldom, if ever, does them any good. If persons choose to give children
any thing at this time of the year, there can be no objection to it, but I dislike children
going about to ask for money like common beggars; it cannot be proper, and should be generally
discountenanced. All these things, to some men, may appear trifling, but to me and others they
are of consequence; for if we mean to improve the general character of the labouring population,
there is nothing like beginning in time; and we should, amongst other things, get rid of all
mean and improper customs.

Before concluding this chapter I would hint to travellers not to give children money for running
after a coach. I have seen children of both sexes run until their breath failed, and, completely
exhausted, drop down on the grass; merely because some injudicious persons had thrown halfpence
to them. I have also seen little boys turn over and over before the horses, for the purpose
of getting money, to the danger of their own lives and of the passengers; and I recollect an
instance of one boy being, in consequence, killed on the spot. In some counties children will,
in spring and summer, run after a carriage with flowers upon a long stick, thrusting it in
the coach or the faces of the travellers, begging halfpence, which habit had been taught them
by the same injudicious means.

The most virtuous and pious of men, on looking back to their early lives, have almost invariably
confessed that they owe the first seeds of what is excellent in them, to the blessing of God,
on the instruction and example of their parents, and those around them in the years of their
childhood.

Reflections like these ought to make us humble and thankful for the advantages we have enjoyed,
and cause us to look with an eye of pity, charity, and commiseration on the vices and delinquencies
of the poor, rather than to judge them with harsh and cruel severity. Had we been in their
places, might not--would not--our character and conduct have been as theirs?--Still further,
ought not such thoughts as these to touch our hearts with deep compassion for them, and excite
us to strenuous endeavours to remedy these lamentable evils, by the most powerful and effective
measures that can be found; and more especially to strive if possible to rescue the rising
generation from the contamination of surrounding vice and misery.

       *       *       *       *       *

"The most likely and hopeful reformation of the road must begin with children. Wholesome laws
and good sermons are but slow and late ways; the timely and most compendious way is a good
education."--Archbishop Tillotson.

       *       *       *       *       *

Having brought the prevalency of juvenile delinquency immediately before the eyes of my readers,
by various examples in the second chapter, and in the third exhibited a few of the causes of
it, I shall now proceed to point out what, in my humble opinion appears to be the only efficient
remedy, namely, the education of the infant poor. It may not be amiss, however, to glance at
the means which have heretofore been employed, and found, though productive of some good, inefficient
for the end proposed.

As preventives, I may notice the numerous national and Sunday schools, tract societies, &c.,
established throughout the kingdom. These have doubtless much good effect, and deserve the
zealous support of every one who has at heart the welfare of society in general, and the improvement
of the labouring classes in particular. Many have been plucked, "as brands from the burning,"
by these institutions; which are a blessing to the objects of their benevolence, and an honour
to their conductors and supporters. That Sunday schools are not wholly efficient, in conjunction
with other institutions, to accomplish the end desired, is to be attributed, on the one hand,
to the small portion of time in which their salutary influence is exerted; and, on the other,
to their not admitting children at a sufficiently early age. At the period usually assigned
for their entrance, they have not only acquired many evil habits, but their affections have
become so thoroughly perverted, as to offer great, and, in some cases, insuperable obstacles
to the corrective efforts of their teachers. Each child brings into the school some portion
of acquired evil, making, when united, a formidable aggregate, and affording every facility
for mutual contamination. Add to this, the counteracting effect which the bad examples they
meet with in the course of six days must have upon the good they hear on the seventh, and it
will be seen how little comparatively is really practicable. I do not say this to dishearten
those who are engaged in this labour of love, or to abate the zeal of its promoters. At the
same time that their experience confirms the truth of my observations--and I know they would
candidly confess that it does so--they must have many gratifying instances of a contrary nature,
in children, who from evil habits have been won to a love of goodness and religion, shewn not
merely in a punctual attendance at their school, but in that good-will toward their fellow-scholars,
and grateful love to their teachers, which are the only infallible signs of a change in the
affections. These things encourage them, in spite of many difficulties and mortifications,
to persevere in well doing; and may the God of love bless their labours with an increase of
fruitfulness! It is only my purpose here to state, that the most likely human means to produce
such an increase, is the establishment of infant schools;--schools designed, particularly,
for the cultivation of the affections,--for preparing the heart to receive that wisdom which
teaches us to love God supremely, and to love our neighbour as ourselves. As to the system
of instruction pursued in Sunday schools, as well as other free schools, it is, indeed, my
opinion, that some alteration for the better might be made, but as I intend to speak of this
matter in a future place, I shall say no more on the subject at present, but pass on to notice
prison discipline--which is, I fear, entitled to any term but that of a remedy.

That the end of punishment should be the prevention of future crime, rather than the gratification
of vindictive feelings--whether those of states or of injured individuals--but few will venture
to deny; and yet how little calculated is the punishment usually inflicted on young offenders
in this country, to answer that end! They are shut up in a prison, in company with other thieves,
perhaps older and more experienced than themselves, and all that was wanting to complete their
education in dishonesty is here attained. Previously to their confinement within the walls
of one of these places, in spite of the assertions of their hardened associates, that it was
nothing to fear, it is probable, dread or apprehension hung over their minds; the last vestige
of shame had not been banished by a public appearance as criminals--and this, properly taken
advantage of, might have made their reformation possible! But, having encountered the object
of their fears, and endured the shame of a trial--shame and fear are alike gone for ever; and
when once they find their way into those sinks of iniquity, there is very little hope of amendment.
From that period a prison has not the least terror for them. Being a place of idleness while
there, it calls forth the evil inclinations of its inmates, and as they have opportunities
of indulging those inclinations, it not only loses all its utility, but becomes incalculably
injurious. I heard a boy who had been confined in Newgate say, that he did not care any thing
about it; that his companions supplied him with plenty of victuals, that there was some good
fun to be seen there, and that most likely he should soon be there again; which proved too
true, for he was shortly after taken up again for stealing two pieces of printed calico, and
transported. This, with a multitude of similar facts, will shew that there are few who do not
become more depraved, and leave such places worse than when they entered them. A gentleman
who visited Newgate informed me that he had been very much surprised at finding so many children
there; some of whom were ironed; and on his inquiring the cause of such severity towards children
so young, he was told by one of the turnkeys, that he had snuck more trouble with them than
he had with old offenders. This fact has been verified by the chief officers of the Wakefield
Model Prison,--the boys give most trouble. In the matter of treating juveniles as delinquents,
I am sure we are wrong. I have seen both the magistrates and the judges insulted on the bench
by juveniles brought before them, and taunted with the following: "You can do no more, you
with the big wig! I wish you may sit there until I come out!" And in the month of May, 1852,
the magistrates of Wakefield were insulted by a boy 15 years old, who had been taken up as
an impostor, with his arm doubled in a sling, and shamming to be deaf and dumb,--a healthy
strong youth, able and fit for work--and when asked why he did not work, answered, because
he could get more by his own method! Hear! this ye indiscriminate alms-givers! And, further,
when expostulated with by the magistrates for the sin and wickedness of pretending to be lame,
&c., he laughed at them outright for being so silly as to suppose that he should not live well
if he could? When told he should be committed for three months, he had the impudence to tell
the court that he would do the same again, when he came out, clapped his hat on in open defiance,
and shouted, "That's all you can do!" The chairman expressed sorrow that he could not order
a whipping, but the prisoner laughed at him, and said, "I am too old for that." Such things
were not known in my younger days. I am afraid we have erred in this matter. A little wholesome
correction did wonders. In such matters, it, at least, made the parties civil, and, I think,
deterred from crime. I am fearful that in this age mankind aim in some things to be more perfect
than the Great Ruler of the Universe!

To the bad habits of a prison, and the association with guilt, must be added the deplorably
unprovided state, in which, at the termination of their period of imprisonment, they are sent
forth into society. What friends have they but their former companions? What habitations, but
their former resorts of iniquity? What means of procuring a livelihood, but their former evil
practices? We accordingly find, that it is not unfrequently the case, with these young offenders,
that scarcely a day elapses after their liberation, before they find themselves again in custody,
and within the walls of a prison. One cannot, indeed, view the exertions made by the "Society
for the Improvement of Prison Discipline" in this respect, without feelings of gratitude to
those who take an active part in it[A]; neither should we forget to return thanks to the Author
of all good, that he should have encouraged the hearts of persons to venture even their lives,
to improve the condition of the prisoners in Newgate and elsewhere;--that even females are
found, who, conquering the timidity and diffidence of their sex, have visited these abodes
of vice and misery, for the purpose of ameliorating the condition of their inhabitants. There
have been men, claiming to be considered wise men, who have ridiculed the exertions of these
daughters of philanthropy, and have made them objects of ridicule, but, happily, they are impervious
to the shafts of folly; and as heedless of the unjust censures, as they are undesirous of the
applause of man. Their aim is, the good of their fellow-creatures,--their reward, the pleasure
of doing good, and the approbation of Him who is goodness itself. That their well-meant and
praiseworthy exertions are not more successful can only be accounted for by the awfully depraved
affections which habitual vice produces; when every principle of action, which should be subservient
to virtue, becomes actively employed in the cause of wickedness; for, whatever may be the impulse
which first induces offenders to do wrong, they become, in course of time, so totally lost
to all sense of what is good as to "glory in their shame." Whether it maybe possible to devise
any plan of prison discipline sufficient to remedy the evil, I cannot pretend to say; and I
shall only repeat the burthen of my song--educate and protect the infant poor; and it will
be found that to prevent is not only better, but easier, than to cure.

[Footnote A: I will make a short extract from one of its reports, to shew, that the chief end
they have in view, is the prevention of crime. They state, that "in the course of their visit,
to the gaols in the metropolis, the Committee very frequently meet with destitute boys, who,
on their discharge from confinement, literally know not where to lay their heads. To assist
such friendless outcasts has been the practice of the society; and to render this relief more
efficacious, a temporary refuge has been established for such as are disposed to abandon their
vicious courses. This asylum has been instrumental in affording assistance to a considerable
number of distressed youths, who, but for this seasonable aid, must have resorted to criminal
practices for support. On admission into this establishment, the boys are instructed in moral
and religious duty, subjected to habits of order and industry, and after a time are placed
in situations which afford a reasonable prospect of their becoming honest and useful members
of society. To extend these objects, and to render its exertions more widely beneficial, the
society solicits the aid of public benevolence. Its expenses are unavoidably serious, and its
funds are at present very low; but it is trusted that pecuniary support will not be withheld,
when it is considered, that on the liberality with which this appeal is answered, depends,
in a great measure, the success of the society's objects--the reformation of the vicious, and
the prevention of crime."]

That this remedy is effectual, experience has taught me and many others; and experience is
a guide on whom we may safely rely. It has shown me that by taking children at an early age
out of the reach of contamination in the streets, and removing them in a great measure from
the no less baneful influence of evil example at home, we may lay such a foundation of virtue,
as is not likely to be shaken. Nor do I think it difficult to show the reason of this. It is
confessed on all hands that our first impressions are the most powerful, both as to their immediate
effects and future influence; that they not only form the character of our childhood, but that
of our maturer years. As the mind of a child expands, it searches for new objects of employment
or gratification; and this is the time when the young fall an easy prey to those who make a
business of entrapping them into the paths of dishonesty, and then of urging them to crimes
of deeper dye. What, then, but a most salutary result can ensue from placing a child in a situation,
where its first impressions will be those of the beauty of goodness,--where its first feelings
of happiness will consist in the receiving and cherishing kind ness towards its little neighbours?
In after years, and in schools for older children, it is reckoned an unavoidable evil, that
they should be congregated together in numbers; not so in the infant school; it is there made
use of as a means of developing and exercising those kindly feelings, which must conduce to
the individual and general comfort, not only there, but in society generally. It is not merely
by instructing them in maxims of honesty that we seek to provide against the evil; but by the
surer way of exciting that feeling of love towards each other--towards every one--which, when
found in activity, must not only prevent dishonesty, but every other species of selfishness.

Consider the difference of the cases. In the one case we behold a child associated, in happy
communion, with a society--a little world--of its own age and feelings,--continually proving
the possibility of giving and imparting happiness by receiving and exercising kindness to its
companions--secured from every danger--supplied with a constant variety of amusement, which
is at the same time instruction; and all this under the care of a master or mistress; acting
the part, not of a petulant school-dame, or a stern pedagogue, but of a kind and judicious parent.

In the case of the child not thus befriended, we see it, either exposed to the dangerous associations
of the street, or to the bad examples of its parents; to their unkindness and severity, or
misguided indulgence; and presented, moreover, with every facility, as well as every temptation,
to do wrong. Now, is it to be wondered at, that, in the former case, kind, obedient, honest
characters should be the result; and in the latter, such as we have, in our preceding examples,
exhibited? Reason tells us such a consequence is likely, and experience has shewn us that it
really happens. I could enumerate a thousand cases of honest principle in the infants who have
been under my own care; but I can only mention one or two circumstances illustrative of the matter.

I once had, for example, two little boys to travel with me; their assistance was extremely
valuable in organizing schools. They were often invited to accompany me at dinner; the guests
generally gave them presents. I have watched them under many tempting circumstances, and never
found them steal. It is my firm conviction that dishonesty is chiefly the effect of neglect.
No child can be born a thief, in the strict sense of the term. In many schools, too, there
are fruit-trees planted in the play-ground, to which the children will not do the least injury,
nor will they touch the fruit. Flowers in pots, such as geraniums, auriculas, and other plants,
are placed in the middle of the play-ground, without the least danger of being injured. Such
is their respect to private property.

Another instance particularly excited my notice amongst the children in the first establishments
in London. They were permitted to bring their dinners with them, and there were boxes in the
school to put them in. Every child in the school had access to these boxes, for they were never
locked, and yet I never knew a child to lose his dinner, or any part of it, notwithstanding
many of the children, to my knowledge, had been kept extremely short of food. I have known
an instance of a slice of bread and butter being left in the box for several weeks, by some
child that could not eat it, but none of the other children would dare to touch it. I have
found in the boxes two or three pieces of bread, as hard as possible, and as a proof that many
were hungry, and that it did not remain there because they could not eat it, but out of pure
honesty, I have offered it to some of the children, and they have eaten it in that state. Cold
potatoes, pieces of fat, &c., were not unacceptable to them when given; but sooner than take
any thing without leave, they have actually left it to spoil. These are facts which shew, that
notwithstanding all the disadvantages to which the poor children are exposed, their character
may be so far formed as to produce the effects above described. "Would you take a piece of
bread out of this box that did not belong to you?" said I to the children one day. "No, sir,"
replied a little girl of four years old. "Why not?" "Because," said the child, "it would be
thieving." "Well, but suppose no one saw you?" Before I could speak another word, a number
of the children answered, "God can see everything that we do." "Yes," added another little
boy, "if you steal a cherry, or a piece of pencil, it is wicked." "To be sure," added another,
"it is wicked to steal any thing."

I cannot do better than introduce in this place the opinion of Judge Bosanquet, on the subject
of the education of the infant poor; and some valuable hints will likewise be found in his
remarks on prison discipline. It is an extract from a charge to the jury delivered at the Gloucester
assizes for April, 1823. "Gentlemen, I have reason to believe, that the offences for trial
on this occasion, are rather less than usual at this season, and, to whatever the diminution
of crime may be ascribed, I cannot forbear earnestly to press upon your attention, a constant
perseverance in two things, which, above all others, are calculated to diminish crime,--the
first is an unremitted attention to the education of the children of the poor, and of all classes
of society, in the principles of true morality and sound religion; the next is the constant
and regular employment of such persons as may be sentenced to imprisonment, in such labour
as may be adapted to their respective ages and conditions. I believe that these observations
may be considered as quite superfluous in this county, and therefore I have taken the liberty
of using the word perseverance, because I believe your attention is already strongly drawn
to that subject, and it requires no exhortation of mine to induce your attention to it. I am
not quite sure whether in the gaol for this city, the same means are provided for the employment
of those persons sentenced to terms of imprisonment, which are provided in the gaol for the
county. The magistrates for the city are equally desirous of promoting the education of all
the poor under their care, I have no doubt; and I do hope and trust, if the means of labour
have not been provided in their gaol, that no time will be lost in providing those means by
which imprisonment may be made a real punishment, by which offenders may be reformed during
their imprisonment, and by which the idle and dissolute may be prevented from any inclination
to return there."[A]

[Footnote A: From the time the judge referred to made the above remarks, other judges, down
to the present time, have added similar sentiments. From 1823, until 1852, proof upon proof,
has been added, to show us the advantage of early training; and though much has been cramming,
and not training, still the results have been good. What would they have been had the schooling
given, really been training? and what, if the training of children had been studied as art,
if the public looked on the teachers as artists, and treated them with the consideration they
deserve? Anticipations cannot be too sanguine in estimating the results that must accrue to
society from a system of spiritual, intellectual, and moral culture, becoming universal, and
worked out by minds who will, I am sure hereafter, be able fully to develope, from study, and
practice of the art of teaching, the great principles of spiritual truths, intellectual vigour,
and the moral strength of the coming generations, which have been allowed to remain in a state
of torpor in the present.]

I have hitherto only being considering the prudential motives which should induce us to promote
the education of the poor. I have shown, that it will be for the benefit of society, inasmuch
as it is likely to decrease the number of those who transgress its laws--that it will prove
a greater security to our persons and property than laws or prisons afford. But there are other
motives which, if these selfish ones were wholly wanting, might be sufficient to advocate,
in every humane heart, the same course of conduct. If the duty of promoting honesty amongst
the labouring classes did not exist, that of increasing happiness and piety amongst them would
not be the less imperative. That there is much room for an augmentation of both, few, I think,
will be inclined to deny; the less so in proportion as they have had the greater opportunity
of ascertaining their actual condition.

Let us now for a few moments consider how great a blessing an infant school is, even when regarded
as a mere asylum to take charge of the child's bodily welfare. I have mentioned before, that
the poor are unable to take that care of their children which their tender age requires, on
account of their occupations; and have shewn, that it is almost certain, that the children
of such persons will learn every species of vice. But there are other kinds of dangers which
more immediately affect the body, and are the cause of more accidents than people in general
imagine. I shall here notice some of the most prominent, and hope to be able to convince the
unprejudiced mind, that it would be a charity to take charge of the infant poor, even leaving
the idea of their learning any thing good at school entirely out of the question; and surely
those persons, who disapprove of educating the poor at all, will see the propriety of keeping,
if possible, their children safe from accidents, and preserving the lives of many little ones,
who would otherwise be lost to their country, from their falling a prey to surrounding dangers.

It is well known that many poor people are obliged to live in garrets, three or four stories
high, with a family of six or seven children; and it will not appear improbable that, when
the children are left by themselves, they should frequently meet with accidents by tumbling
down stairs; some breaking their backs, others their legs or arms; and to this cause alone,
perhaps, may be traced a vast number of the cripples that daily appear as mendicants in our
streets. When the poor parents return from their daily labour, they sometimes have the mortification
of finding that one, or probably two, of their children, are gone to an hospital; which of
course makes them unhappy, and unfits them for going through their daily labour. This dead
weight, which is continually on the minds of parents, is frequently the cause of their being
unable to please their employers, and the consequence sometimes is, they are thrown out of
work altogether; whereas, if they were certain that their children were taken care of, they
would proceed with their daily labour cheerfully, and be enabled to give more satisfaction
to their employers than they otherwise can do.

Other parents I have known, who, when obliged to go out, have locked their children in a room
to prevent them from getting into the street, or falling down stairs, and who have taken every
precaution, as they imagined, to protect their children; but the little creatures, perhaps,
after fretting and crying for hours at being thus confined, have ventured to get up to the
window, in order to see what was passing in the street, when one, over-reaching itself, has
fallen out and been killed on the spot. A gentleman said, at a public meeting at Exeter, when
referring to this subject, "I have myself, twice in my life, nearly occasioned the death of
children. In one instance, a child left to itself, ran out of the hedge by the road-side; I
was fortunately able to stop, and found the child, unconscious of its escape, raising its hands
to the reins of the horse. And on another occasion, my horse threw a child down, and I had
but just time to pull up, and prevent the wheels from passing over the infant's head." And
it was stated in a Bristol paper, that in the short space of one fortnight, seven children
were taken to the infirmary of that city so dreadfully burnt that four of them died. Numerous
cases of this kind are to be found in the public prints, and hundreds of such accidents occur
which are not noticed in the papers at all. Many children, again, strolling into the fields,
fall into ponds and ditches, and are drowned. So numerous, indeed, are the dangers which surround
the infant poor, as to make a forcible appeal to the hearts of the pious and humane, and to
call loudly on them to unite in rescuing this hitherto neglected part of the rising generation
from the evils to which they are exposed.

It is much to be regretted that those persons who most need employment should be the last to
procure it; but such is the fact, for there are so many obstacles thrown in the way of married
persons, and especially, those with a family, that many are tempted to deny that they have
any children, for fear they should lose their situations, though it is certainly an additional
stimulus to a servant to behave orderly, when he knows that he has others to look to him for
support.

Shall I close this appeal for the necessity of educating the infant poor by another and weightier
argument? They are responsible and immortal beings. It may be thought that I should have given
this plea the precedence of every other. I did not, because I felt more anxious to make good
my ground with the prudent and the philanthropic--to show them that self-interest and humanity
demand our exertions in this cause. I knew that when I came to urge such efforts upon the attention
of the Christian, I could not possibly fail. No one who is a sincere follower of Him who said
"Suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom;"
no one who professes to abide by the maxims of Him whose commandment was, "Love thy neighbour
as thyself," can turn a deaf ear to the entreaties of those who are necessitous and suffering.
Thousands there are among those of whom we have been speaking, who are brought up in as great
ignorance of God and religion, as though they had been born in a country where the light of
Revelation had never shone--where the glad tidings of salvation have never been proclaimed.
With examples of evil continually before their eyes, both at home and abroad, we see and hear
its consequences daily in the wickedness with which our streets abound, and in the lisped blasphemy
and profanity of those who learn to curse and swear before they can well walk.

Whilst I was at Lincoln, I was shocked beyond measure by the horrid language of the boys; to
such a pitch had the evil come, that the magistrates were determined to fine all the men who
were brought before them for profane swearing; and I had the satisfaction of hearing that four
men had been fined whilst I was there. What a blessing it would be if other magistrates throughout
the kingdom would follow their example!

Any person who has been accustomed to walk the streets of London, must have heard how frequently
children take the name of the Almighty in vain; seldom or ever mentioning it but to confirm
some oath. I have seen boys playing at marbles, tops, and other games, and who, on a dispute
arising about some frivolous thing, would call upon the Supreme Being to strike them deaf,
dumb, or blind, nay, even dead, if what they said were not true; when, nevertheless, I have
been satisfied from having observed the origin of the dispute, that the party using the expressions
has been telling a falsehood. Indeed so common is this kind of language in the streets, that
it often passes without notice. I am inclined to think, that children accustomed to use such
expressions on every trifling occasion, will, when they grow to riper years, pay very little
respect to the sanctity of an oath. It is, perhaps, one of the reasons why we hear of so much
perjury in the present day. At all events, little children cannot avoid hearing such expressions,
not only from those who are rather older than themselves, but, I am sorry to say, even from
their parents. I have known repeated instances of this kind. Many little ones, when they first
come to our schools, make use of dreadful expressions, and when told that it is wrong, will
say that they did not know it was so; others, with the greatest simplicity, have declared,
that they had heard their fathers or mothers say the same words. Hence I have had much difficulty
in persuading them that it was wrong, for they very naturally thought, that if their parents
made use of such language, they might do the same. How great is the necessity of good example;
and did parents generally consider how apt children are to receive impressions, and to become
imitators, both in their words and actions, they would be more cautious than they are. There
are many parents who make use of very bad expressions themselves, who would correct their children
for using the same;--as a proof of this, I will mention one circumstance, out of many others,
that took place in the school I superintended many years since. We had a little girl there,
five years old, who was so fond of the school, that she frequently stopped after the usual
hours to play with my children and some others who chose to stay in the play-ground. Many of
them would stop till eight or nine o'clock at night, to which I had no objection, provided
their parents approved of it, and they did not get into mischief; it being desirable to keep
them out of the streets as much as possible. It happened, however, one day, that some of the
children, offended this child, and she called them by dreadful names, such as I cannot repeat;
and, of course, the others were terrified, and told me of them immediately. I was soon satisfied
that the child was ignorant of the meaning of what she said, for, as an excuse for her conduct,
she declared that she heard her father and mother use the same words. I told the child, that
notwithstanding her parents might have done so, it was very wicked, and that I could not let
her stay another time to play, if ever she did so again. Having sent for the mother, I informed
her of the expressions the child had used, but did not tell her what she had mentioned relative
to her parents, for if I had, she would have beaten her most unmercifully. The mother, after
having heard me relate the circumstance, immediately flew into a passion with the child, and
declared, that she would "skin her alive," (this was her expression,) and I had much difficulty
to restrain her from correcting the child in the school. Having pacified her a little, I inquired
where the child could have heard such wicked expressions. She said she could not tell. I then
told her, I hoped the child did not learn them of her, or her father. To this she made no answer,
but I could perceive that she stood self-convicted, and having said what I conceived necessary
upon the occasion, I dismissed her, observing that it was useless for ladies and gentlemen
to establish schools for the education of the infant poor, if the parents did not assist by
setting them a good example.

I am happy to state, that the advice I gave her was not thrown away, as I never knew the child
guilty of saying a bad word afterwards; and the mother soon brought me another child, of two
years and a half old, and said she should be very glad if I would take it into the school,
and that she wished a blessing might always attend the gentlemen who supported the institution.
She also requested me to take an opportunity of speaking a few words to her husband, for she
was thankful for what had been said to her. And here I would observe, that although it is most
undoubtedly true, that the good taught to children in our infant schools is greatly counteracted
by the conduct they witness on their return home, yet we occasionally see, that these little
children, by the blessing of God, are made the means of reforming their own parents. What a
gratifying fact it is, that the adult and hardened sinner, may be turned from his evil ways--from
death unto life--by an infant's precept or example!

Nor is it only in profane expressions that we see the influence of evil. Some children I have
known, in the same neighbourhood, who even beat their parents. There was a poor widow, very
near the school, who was frequently to be seen with her face dreadfully bruised by blows from
her own son. He had been taken before a magistrate, and imprisoned for three months, but it
did him no good, for he afterwards beat his mother as much as ever, and the poor woman had
it in contemplation to get the miscreant sent out of the country. One Sunday, I remember to
have seen a boy, under twelve years of age, take up a large stone to throw at his mother: he
had done something wrong in the house, and the mother followed him into the street with a small
cane, to correct him for it; but he told his mother, that if she dared to approach him, he
would knock her down. The mother retired, and the boy went where he pleased. These and many
similar scenes I have witnessed; and I am afraid that many such characters have been so completely
formed as to be past reformation. So essential is it, to embrace the first opportunity of impressing
on the infant mind the principles of duty and virtue.

I am aware that many excellent institutions are in existence for the spread of the gospel amongst
the ignorant and depraved at home as well as abroad; but I must here again advert to the readier
reception of religious truths in infancy, than by the adult and confirmed sinner. I would not
say to those who are engaged in the painful task--painful because so often unsuccessful--forego
your labours; but I would call upon all who have at heart the everlasting welfare of the souls
of men, to exert themselves, that the rising generation may not likewise grow up into that
state of perverseness--that they may not in future years prove themselves to be a generation,
which, "like the adder, turneth a deaf ear to the charmer, charm he ever so wisely." I am satisfied,
from the experience I have had, that an amount of good is attainable from early and judicious
culture, which far, very far surpasses all that has heretofore been accomplished; and on which
not a few are even unprepared to calculate.

It was a Christian-like wish expressed by King George III., that every child in his dominions
should be able to read the bible; and from the increased facility of doing so from gratuitous
education, the number of those who cannot is much less than formerly; but in many cases the
necessitous circumstances of the parents prevent them from allowing their children, except
during their infant years, the advantage of instruction, even though it cost them nothing.
The time for the children of the poor to receive instruction, is between the ages of two and
eight; after that period many are sent out to work, or detained at home, for they then become
useful to their parents, and cannot be sent to school. There are many little girls who, having
left the infant school, go out to work for a shilling a week, and the mothers have declared
to me, when I have endeavoured to persuade them to send them to the National School, for at
least one year, that they could not do it, for they were so poor, that every shilling was a
great help; they have, however, promised me that they would send them to the Sunday school.
This may account, in some measure, for there being so many more boys than girls in almost every
school in London, and chews that great good has been done, and is doing, by those valuable
institutions.[A]

[Footnote A: It is to be observed here, that the children do not come to or schools on Sundays,
but many of them, between five and six years old, who have brothers and sisters in the national
school, go with them to church, and others of the same age go to a Sunday school in the neighbourhood.
In short, I may venture to say, that almost all the children that are able, go either to a
Sunday school or to church: but to take them all in a body, at the early age that they are
admitted into an infant school, to any place of worship, and to keep them there for two or
three hours, with a hope to profit them, and not to disturb the congregation, is, according
to my view, injurious if not impracticable.]

Many of my readers, who have been in the habit of noticing and pitying the poor, may think
the detail into which I have entered superfluous, but I can assure them the want of information
on the subject is but too general, and is sufficient to account for the indifference which
has so long been exhibited.

The objection, that education is altogether improper for poor people is not quite obsolete.
There are not wanting persons who still entertain the most dreadful apprehensions of the "march
of intellect," as it has been termed; who see no alternative but that it must over-turn every
thing that is established, and subvert the whole order of society. I would willingly impart
comfort to the minds of those who are afflicted with such nervous tremours, but I fear, if
the demonstration of experience has not quieted them, the voice of reason never will. It cannot
fail to remind us of the apprehensions of the popish clergy in former times, who decried the
art of printing, then recently introduced, as a branch of the black art, which, if encouraged,
must eventually demolish the social fabric, and introduce civil wars and discord into every
country. Time, that test of truth, has shewn us how groundless their apprehensions were. Instead
of injuring that fabric, it has strengthened its foundation so that it cannot be shaken, and
has surrounded it with defences, which bid defiance to assaults.

Oh! that the time were come when every heart, being imbued with truly christian principles,
would see that the noblest and highest object that could be set before us, would be to rear
up the minds of the young in knowledge, virtue, and piety; to train them to intelligence and
usefulness in this life, and for happiness and immortality in the life to come. On such labours
the blessing of God would inevitably rest, and His promise of their success is positive and
unconditional. "Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old he will not depart
from it."

To the furtherance of the infant system I have devoted for many years my utmost energies and
resources, and to it I purpose to give them, so long as I am permitted by the gracious Providence
of God. I shall be happy to render it any aid, either by supplying information to those who
need it, or by personal exertions, the expenses of so doing being defrayed; on application
to my Publisher, 22, Portugal Street, Lincoln's Inn, London, or to myself', at Moor Cottage,
Wakefield.

In order to urge the necessity, and explain the design of infant schools, I have for some years
been accustomed to deliver a course of lectures, of which the following is an outline:--

FIRST LECTURE.--Affecting state of the children of the poor--Lamentable condition of young
delinquents--What are the causes?--The question answered--Bodily and mental injuries now sustained
by children of all ranks, described and prevented--What is the best remedy for existing evils?--Answer
given--Origin and history of the Infant System--Its progress in Scotland, where it might least
have been expected--What are the objections to the system?--Practical refutation of them--Modes
of instruction: The alphabet, spelling, reading, arithmetic--Moral cultivation enforced, and
the means explained.

SECOND LECTURE.--A play-ground made not only delightful, but mentally and morally improving--The
class-room adapted to produce and confirm religious impressions--Music, its application to
improve the feelings and memory--Representations of natural objects and scriptural subjects--Variety
and extent of information attainable--Lying, dishonesty, injustice, and cruelty corrected.

THIRD LECTURE.--New plans of reward and punishment--Influence of fear and love--Great difference
in the result--Infant system more fully explained--Appeals to conscience--Emulation unnecessary--Elliptical
plan of teaching described--Trials by jury--Effect of sympathy--Infants the instruments of
improving one another.

FOURTH LECTURE.--Methods of teaching the elements of grammar, geography, and geometry--Gallery
described, and its application to many useful purposes--Qualifications of instructors--Injury
sustained from their deficiencies and errors--The system contrasted with former methods--Ultimate
effects of its diffusion--Servants prepared to become blessings to families--Hints to parents,
and the application of the whole system to children of every grade.

These lectures I am ready to deliver wherever it may be deemed desirable, and to follow up
the effect by the organization of schools. The necessary apparatus may be obtained of myself.

       *       *       *       *       *

"The business of education, in respect of knowledge, is not, as I think to perfect a learner
in all or any one of the sciences, but to give his mind that disposition, and those habits,
that may enable him to attain any part of knowledge he shall stand in need of in the future
coarse of his life."--Locke.

"When the obligations of morality are taught, let the sanctions of Christianity, never be forgotten;
by which it will be shewn not that they give lustre and strength to each other: religion will
appear to be the voice of reason, and morality the will of God."--Johnson.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Agesilaus, king of Sparta, was asked, "What should boys be taught?" he answered, "What
they ought to do when they become men." Such a declaration was worthy of later times, since
the most intelligent now admit that the great end of all education is the formation of solid,
useful, and virtuous character. This work should be, doubtless, commenced at the earliest possible
period, to it the system explained in this volume is considered to be adapted, and the principles
on which it proceeds are now to be illustrated. And here it ought to be particularly observed
that nothing is admissible, except what is appropriate to the state of infancy, calculated
to exercise the physical energies, and likely, by their invigoration, to lay the basis of a
sound and powerful intellect. And yet all this is too often forgotten. Look at the infant,
the very embodying of vivacity and activity, and its confinement to a particular posture, or
the requirement of a peculiar expression of countenance, is manifestly unnatural. An inactive
and healthy child under six years of age is never seen. Whatever compels it to be otherwise
consequently produces what is artificial in character. A parent or a teacher may keep his children
quiet, and in what he terms order; but it does not follow that this is a good preparation for
after years. On the contrary, bondage may issue in excess. The feelings and propensities which,
instead of being corrected, are unduly restrained, will be manifested in some other ways, and
under less favourable circumstances, and frequently the reaction will be violent in maturity.
Hence the system now recommended is expressly one for infants, adapted to them just as they
are, and wholly designed to repress what is evil, and to cherish what is good.

Accordingly, the utmost attention is given to the cheerfulness and happiness of those on whom
it acts. Instruction in reading, arithmetic, geometry, and various other things is made exceedingly
amusing; smiling countenances and sparkling eyes are observable all around when it is communicated;
and what was dull and soporific, according to the old plan, is now insinuated so agreeably,
that the child, while literally at play, is acquiring a large amount of valuable knowledge.
At play he sees Nature's book, that world of beauties: he loves to look into it, there is no
flogging to induce him to do it. All is enquiry and anxiety on his part. "What is this?" "What
is that?" "What is it for?" "How did it come?" With numerous other questions of similar import.
Oh, that we had teachers to teach more out of this divine book! Oh, that we had a public who
would encourage and cherish them for so doing! What blessed results even have I seen, by one's
being able to answer such enquiries! The absurd notion that children can only be taught in
a room, must be exploded. I have done more in one hour in the garden, in the lanes, and in
the fields, to cherish and satisfy the budding faculties of childhood, than could have been
done in a room for months. Oh, mankind have yet something to learn about teaching children!
See how they catch at truths through the medium of living things! See how it germinates in
them, by so doing; the teacher may forget, they do not, this I have proved hundreds of times.
Music has proved a most important auxiliary for this purpose, and a stranger would be astonished
at the hilarity and delight with which much is rehearsed, with a full perception of its meaning,
when in any other way it would be irksome and unintelligible.

These attainments, moreover, are accompanied by various movements and evolutions which exercise
the limbs, the joints, the muscles; in addition to which, set times are appointed every morning
and afternoon for its exclusive enjoyment.

The conduct of inferior animals, when young, shows the propriety of giving exercise to children.
Every other creature makes use of its organs of motion as soon as possible, and many of them,
when under no necessity of moving in quest of food, cannot be restrained without force. Such
is the case with the calf, the lamb, and many more. If these creatures were not permitted to
frisk about at pleasure, they would soon die, or become diseased. The same inclination appears
very early in the human species; but as they are not able to take exercise themselves, it is
the business of their parents and nurses to give it them. This may be done in various ways,
and the methods included in the system are shewn in other parts of this work. It is to be regretted
that men should be so inattentive to this matter; their negligence is one reason why females
know so little of it. Women will always be desirous to excel in such accomplishments as recommend
them to the other sex; but men generally avoid even the slightest acquaintance with the affairs
of the nursery, and many would reckon it an affront were they supposed to know any thing of
them. Not so, however, with the kennel or the stables; a gentleman of the first rank, who is
not ashamed to give directions concerning the management of his dogs or horses, would blush
were he surprised in performing the same office for that being who is to be the heir of his
fortunes, and, perhaps, the future hope of his country.

Arguments to show the importance of exercise, might be drawn from every part of the animal
economy. Without it, the circulation of the blood cannot be properly carried on, nor the different
secretions duly performed; neither can the fluids be properly prepared, nor the solids rendered
firm or strong. The action of the heart, the motion of the lungs, and all the vital functions,
are greatly assisted by exercise. But to point out the manner in which these effects are produced,
would lead us beyond the present subject. We shall, therefore, only add, that when exercise
is neglected, none of the animal functions can be duly performed; and when this is the case,
the whole constitution must go to wreck. Healthy parents, wholesome food, and suitable clothing
will avail little where it is disregarded. Sufficient exercise will supply many defects in
nursing, but nothing can compensate for its want. A good constitution ought certainly to be
our first object in the management of children. It lays a foundation for their being useful
and happy in life; and whoever neglects it, not only fails in his duty to his offspring, but
to society.

While this is forgotten, let us not complain of weak and thoughtless children, or of weak and
thoughtless servants; for the former are so from the neglect of their parents and the public;
and the latter from not having been taught to think at all--and yet the very persons that object
to the education of the poor are the first to complain of their servants.

A notion that habits of industry must be established, has, however, been the means, I regret
to state, of a sad perversion of the system in these respects. The time allowed for amusement
and exercise has been in some cases, very much abridged that the children might learn and practise
sewing, knitting, plaiting, &c. Now, no one can be more disposed to the encouragement of industrious
habits than myself, but I would say not at the expense of health; which I am certain, in these
cases it must be. Deprive the children of their amusement, and they will soon cease to be the
lively, happy beings, we have hitherto seen them, and will become the sickly, inanimate creatures,
we have been accustomed to behold and pity, under the confinement and restraint of the dame's
schools. I do not scruple to affirm, that if the play-grounds of infant schools are cut off
from the system,--they will from that moment cease to be a blessing to the country.

Nothing has given me greater pain than to witness the thorough neglect of play-ground attendance
on the part of teachers and the public; the former leave the children to themselves at the
very time their attendance is most desirable; and when, if duly watched, the children will
give them lessons. Yes! such lessons as no book can give, and such lessons as every efficient
teacher must learn, or efficiency is out of the question. The public are too fond of hearing
tasks and memory work, and such book-learning as is taught in school, with the singing, and
the amusing indoor work, to the detriment and neglect of the moral and physical outdoor work.
Again and again, I say, the outdoor training tells most upon the morals and the formation of
character.

The first faculties which develop themselves in childhood, are those of observation. The infant,
who is two months old, will notice a lighted candle; immediately that sense is gratified, it
seeks to please another, that of touch, and every mother knows, if not prevented, it will put
its hand in the flame. The next effort is to examine other objects: these it will seize if
it can, and after having examined one, it will put it aside to observe another. On its being
able to move about, it seeks objects within its reach, and wishing to gratify the sense of
taste, applies every thing to the mouth; by this it distinguishes the bitter from the sweet,
and on seeing what is sweet a second time, will point to it and wish to obtain it, whilst what
is bitter will not be desired.

The mental part of the system should now be adverted to. Hence it has been well remarked, "From
the time that children begin to use their hands, nature directs them to handle every thing
over and over, to look at it while they handle it, and to put it into various positions, and
at various distances from the eye. We are apt to excuse this as a childish diversion, because
they must be doing something, and have not reason to entertain themselves in a more manly way.
But if we think more justly, we shall find that they are engaged in the most serious and important
study; and if they had all the reason of a philosopher, they could not be more properly employed.
For it is this childish employment that enables them to make the proper use of their eyes.
They are thereby every day acquiring habits of perception, which are of greater importance
than any thing we can teach them. The original perceptions which nature gave them are few,
and insufficient for the purposes of life; and, therefore, she made them capable of many more
perceptions by habit. And to complete her work, she has given them an unwearied assiduity in
applying to the exercise by which those perceptions are acquired."

Such is the education which nature gives her children, and we may add that another part of
her discipline is, that by the course of things, children must exert all their muscular force,
and employ all their ingenuity, in order to gratify their curiosity and satisfy their little
appetites. What they desire is only to be obtained at the cost of labour, patience, and many
disappointments. By the exercise of the body and mind necessary for satisfying their desires,
they acquire agility, strength, and dexterity in their motions, as well as constitutional health
and vigour; they learn to bear pain without dejection, and disappointment without despondency.
The education of nature is most perfect in savages, who have no other tutor; and we see that
in the quickness of all their senses, in the agility of their motions, in the hardiness of
their constitutions, and in their ability to bear hunger, thirst, pain, and disappointment,
they commonly far exceed civilized nations. On this account, a most ingenious writer seems
to prefer savage to social life. But it is the intention of nature, that human education should
assist to form the man, and she has fitted us for it, by the natural principles of imitation
and belief, which discover themselves almost in infancy, as well as by others which are of
later growth.

When the education which we receive from men does not give scope to that of nature, it is erroneous
in its means and its tendency, and enervates both the body and the mind. Nature has her way
of rearing men, as she has of healing their maladies. The art of education is to follow her
dictates, and the art of education is equally to obey her laws. The ancient inhabitants of
the Baleares followed nature in their manner of teaching their children to be good archers,
when they hung their dinner aloft by a thread, and left them to bring it down: by their skill
in the use of the bow.

The education of nature, without any more human care than is necessary to preserve life, makes
a savage. Human education joined to that of nature, may make a good citizen, a skilful artizan,
or a well-bred man; but a higher power is wanting in order to produce a Bacon or a Newton.

The error of the past system (for such I hope I may venture to call it) as to mental development
was, that the inferior powers of the mind were called into activity, in preference to its higher
faculties. The effort was to exercise the memory, and store it with information, which, owing
to the inactivity of the understanding and the judgment, was seldom or never of use. To adopt
the opinions of others was thought quite enough, without the child being troubled to think
for itself, and to form an opinion of its own. But this is not as it should be. Such a system
is neither likely to produce great nor wise men; and is much better adapted to parrots than
children. Hence, the first thing attempted in an infant school is, to set the children thinking,--to
induce them to examine, compare, and judge, in reference to all those matters which their dawning
intellects are capable of mastering. It is of no use to tell a child, in the first place, what
it should think,--this is at once inducing mental indolence, which is but too generally prevalent
among adults; owing to this erroneous method having been adopted by those who had the charge
of their early years. Were a child left to its own resources, to discover and judge of things
exclusively by itself, though the opposite evil would be the consequence, namely, a state of
comparative ignorance, yet I am doubtful whether it would be greater or more lamentable than
that issuing from the injudicious system of giving children dogmas instead of problems, the
opinions of others instead of eliciting their own. In the one case we should find a mind, uninformed
and uncultivated, but of a vigorous and masculine character, grasping the little knowledge
it possessed, with the power and right of a conqueror; in the other, a memory occupied by a
useless heap of notions,--without a single opinion or idea it could call its own,--and an understanding
indolent and narrow, and, from long-indulged inactivity, almost incapable of exertion. As the
fundamental principle of the system, I would therefore say, let the children think for themselves.
If they arrive at erroneous conclusions, assist them in attaining the truth; but let them,
with such assistance, arrive at it by their own exertions. Little good will be done, if you
say to a child,--That is wrong, this is right, unless you enable it to perceive the error of
the one and the truth of the other. It is not only due to the child as a rational being that
you should act so, but it is essentially necessary to the development of its intellectual faculties.
It were not more ridiculous for a master, in teaching arithmetic, to give his pupil the problem
and answer, without instructing him in the method of working the question, than it is for a
person to give a child results of reasoning, without showing how the truth is arrived at. But
some, perhaps, will be ready to exclaim, "Surely the teacher should not withhold the benefit
of his knowledge and experience,--the child will have time enough to examine the merits of
his information when he grows older and be more competent to do so!" To this I answer: in the
first place, nothing should be submitted to the child which it is not fully competent to understand.
To give the child tasks or subjects too difficult for its mental powers, is a violation of
nature; and as foolish and detrimental as though you were to place a hundred pounds weight
on its shoulders when it is incapable of supporting ten. The teacher's experience can only
be of service to the child so far as it is applicable to its own state; and as to postponing
the period when it is to think for itself, there is certainly no occasion for it. Nature has
provided food adapted to the powers of the infant's stomach, and those who would rightly conduct
the work of education, should imitate her in providing its intellectual food. That this may
be done, I am attempting to shew in theory in the pages of this work; and, that it answers
equally well in practice, any one who has a doubt, may assure himself by visiting any school
conducted upon the plan here laid down.

The charge has been brought against the system, that we are not sufficiently anxious to teach
the children to read. Now, though I may venture to say, that under no other plan, do the children
acquire a knowledge of alphabetical characters, and the formation of words, so soon as under
the present, yet I am quite ready to concede that I consider their learning to read a secondary
object, to that of teaching them to examine and find out the nature and properties of things,
of which words are but the signs. It is with things, and not words merely, we wish to make
our children acquainted. If they first learn the nature and properties of an object, there
is no fear of their afterwards inquiring its name; but we too frequently find, that having
acquired names, they are indifferent to, and forgetful of, the objects represented.

Let children see and observe an object, and be taught the name of it at the same time, and
then both are indelibly fixed on the memory. An infant at home is perpetually running around
and looking at all things, and hearing persons speaking about them; it soon becomes acquainted
with their names and properties, and then from time to time speaks about them. "Ah!" exclaims
papa or mama, "What an old-fashioned child that is; one would wonder where it got such notions."
A little thought and reflection would soon tell where, and this thought properly carried out
would display an important fundamental principle in teaching the young mind.

Our first endeavour is, therefore, to excite a spirit of inquiry,--to foster that curiosity
which is so natural to young children: till this is properly done, your information will not
be well received, and it is most likely soon to be forgotten; but having once made them inquisitive,
you are more likely to tire of communicating than they are of receiving. The skilful teacher
will, indeed, rather leave them with an appetite still craving, than satiate them by repletion.
I have frequently found the most beneficial results arise from the sudden cessation of a lesson
or a lecture on an interesting topic. The children have looked for its renewal with the utmost
impatience, pondering over what they had already heard, and anticipating what was yet to come
with the greatest interest. Give a child a task, and you impose a burthen on him,--permit him
to learn something, and you confer a favour.

Having excited a spirit of inquiry, the next endeavour is to direct it to proper objects. These,
of course, will be things which relate to the senses of the child; the nature and properties
of bodies, which may be ascertained by the application of those senses, &c. Having induced
it to examine for itself, you are now to elicit its ideas of each object respectively; and
having taught it to use its reason and judgment freely, and to express its own notions fearlessly
and candidly,--you are to attempt the correction of what is erroneous, by putting forth your
own views in as simple a way as possible: not so as to induce the child to give up its own
opinions and adopt yours, but in such a way as to direct it to the attainment of truth; to
induce a comparison between its thoughts and yours, and thus to discover its own error.

The powers of observation will speedily be improved under such a course of instruction, and
in all the subsequent stages of existence, will not fail to constitute an independent and shrewd
observer. But some may think we are straining the child's faculties by the plan recommended,--overstepping
nature's laws,--and that the result must be detrimental to the child, both in mind and body.
So far, however, is this from being true, that we have taken nature for our guide. We deprecate
strongly, most strongly, that unnatural system, which gives children tasks so far beyond their
powers, and for which their infantile faculties are not qualified;--we would lead them on in
the path which nature has marked out--step by step--taking care that one thing should be thoroughly
mastered before another is attempted.

The mental powers of children are far stronger than is generally supposed. No one who looks
back to his early childhood, can fail of recollecting, that, at times, his thoughts would even
then reach the very limits of human thought. All the powers of mind that are exercised in after-life
display themselves in infancy, and therefore they all ought to be quietly and easily brought
into exercise. This maybe done by any object,--even a toy. Were we to tie up several of our
members so as to prevent their use, and at the same time exercise strongly those at liberty,
bodily distortion must result. If we, in teaching, exercise the memory alone, and that merely
with a knowledge of words and not of things, an absolute mental distortion must result, and
the higher powers of reflection, judgment, and reason will remain weak, feeble, and deficient
from want of exercise. When all the powers of the mind are brought out into harmonious action,
the acquirement of knowledge be comes pleasurable. Knowledge is the proper aliment to expand
and enlarge the mind, as natural food is for the growth of the body; and when such as is proper
to the age and character of the recipient is selected, the one will be received with as much
pleasure as the other. As the due exercise of every bodily power causes it to become strong,
healthy, and vigorous, so the right and proper use of every mental faculty will, in the end,
occasion it to become active, free, and powerful.

As soon as the child enters the school he is under command. He is required to occupy certain
places, to go through various motions, and to attend to diversified instruction, at the sound
of a foot, or the raising of a hand. From this course no departure is allowed. At first it
is the work of sympathy and imitation, but afterwards it becomes a matter of principle. Thus,
then, the native reluctance of the infant mind to obey, is overcome, and a solid basis laid
for future efforts. So far, however, the discipline is general; to be particular, the individual
character must be minutely observed. The movements of the child, when unrestrained, must be
diligently watched, its predominant qualities ascertained, and such a mode of treatment adopted
as sound judgment of character may dictate. Wherever this is forgotten, some evils will arise.
The orders which are given to any other power than those of sympathy and imitation, are not
likely to be obeyed by the untrained babe; the fact is, that as yet it has no other means of
obedience, and for this on higher principles we must wait till nature furnishes instruments
and opportunities for their exercise. When, however, success is gained thus far, the way is
prepared for further development and culture, and the powers of observation and discrimination,
then gradually tasked, will accomplish all that is desired. Thus the infant sits or rises,
repeats or is silent, at first, because those about him do so; afterwards he perceives a reason
for doing so: for example, that, when in the gallery, he can see what he could not any where
else, and, therefore, that he must march thither, and then he judges that one thing is wrong
because the doing it was forbidden, and that another is right because it was commanded, or
because the one makes him happy and the other the contrary.

Under the old system of education, I must candidly say, moral treatment has been often altogether
omitted, and still more frequently has it been erroneous, and consequently inefficient. Let
me ask,--would it promote a child's health to teach it to repeat certain maxims on the benefits
resulting from exercise? The answer is obvious. Neither can it be of any service to the moral
health of the child, to teach it to repeat the best maxims of virtue, unless we have taken
care to urge the practical observance of those precepts. And yet this has rarely been the case.
How frequently do we hear persons remark on the ill conduct of children, "It is surprising
they should do so;--they have been taught better things!" Very likely; and they may have all
the golden rules of virtue alluded to, carefully stored up in their memories; but they are
like the hoarded treasures of the miser, the disposition to use them is wanted. It is this
which we must strive to produce and promote in the child. Indeed, if we can but be the instruments
of exciting a love of goodness, it will not err, nor lack the knowledge how to do good, even
though we were to forget to give it any rules or maxims. It is to the heart we must turn our
attention in the moral treatment of children. We must carefully endeavour to elicit and train
out the moral feelings implanted within; and to awaken the conscience to the approval of good,
and the dislike and detestation of evil. Another grand object of the master or mistress of
an infant school, is, therefore, to win their love, by banishing all slavish fear. They are
to be invited to regard their teacher, as one who is desirous of promoting their happiness,
by the most affectionate means--not only by kind words, but by kind actions; one of which influences
a child more than a volume of words. Words appeal only to the understanding, and frequently
pass away as empty sounds; but kind actions operate on the heart, and, like the genial light
and warmth of spring, that dispels the gloom which has covered the face of nature during the
chilly season of winter, they disperse the mists which cold and severe treatment has engendered
in the moral atmosphere. The fundamental principle of the infant school system is love; nor
should any other be substituted for it, except when absolutely necessary. Let the children
see that you love them, and love will beget love, both toward their teacher and each other.
Without the aid of example nothing can be done; it is by this magnetic power alone that sympathetic
feelings can be awakened. It acts as a talisman on the inmost feelings of the soul, and excites
them to activity; which should be the constant aim of all persons engaged in the important
work of education. As we find that vicious principles are strengthened by habit, and good principles
proportionally weakened, so, on the contrary, immoral dispositions are weakened by the better
feelings being brought into action.

The great defect in the human character is selfishness, and to remove or lessen this is the
great desideratum of moral culture. How happy were mankind, if, instead of each one living
for himself, they lived really for one another! The perfection of moral excellence cannot be
better described than as the attainment of that state in which we should "love our neighbour
as ourselves." The prevalence of self-love will be very obvious to the observant master or
mistress, in the conduct of the children under their care, and it is this feeling that they
must be ever striving to check or eradicate. Nor need they despair of meeting with some degree
of success. The children may be brought to feel, that to impart happiness is to receive it,--that
being kind to their little schoolfellows, they not only secure a return of kindness, but actually
receive a personal gratification from so doing; and that there is more pleasure in forgiving
an injury than in resenting it. Some I know will be apt to say,--that after all, thus is nothing
but selfishness or self-love. It is an old matter of dispute, and I leave those to quarrel
over it who please. Every one knows and feels the difference between that which we call selfishness,
and that which is comprehensively termed by the lips of divine truth, the "love of our neighbour."
If it must be called self-love, I can only say that it is the proper direction of the feeling
which is to be sought.

In the work of moral culture, it will be necessary not only to observe the child's conduct
under the restraint of school observation and discipline; but at those times when it thinks
itself at liberty to indulge its feelings unnoticed. The evil propensities of our nature have
all the wiliness of the serpent, and lurk in their secret places, watching for a favourable
opportunity of exercise and display. For the purpose of observation, the play-ground will afford
every facility, and is on this account, as well as because it affords exercise and amusement
to the children, an indispensable appendage to an Infant School. Here the child will show its
character in its true light. Here may be seen what effects the education of children has produced;
for if they are fond of fighting and quarrelling, here it will be apparent; if they are artful,
here they will seek to practice their cunning; and this will give the master an opportunity
of applying the proper remedy; whereas, if they are kept in school (which they must be, if
there be no play-ground), these evil inclinations will not manifest themselves until they go
into the street, and consequently, the antidote will not be applied. I have seen many children
behave very orderly in the school, but the moment they entered the play-ground they manifested
their selfishness to such a degree, that they would wish all the rest of the children to be
subservient to them; and, on their refusing to let them bear rule, they would begin to use
force, in order to compel their compliance. This is conduct that ought to be checked,--and
what time so proper as the first stages of infancy?

To take another case, a quarrel like this may arise: a boy has six gooseberries; another boy
comes and asks for one; by a little solicitation he obtains it:--he wishes another;--but the
boy who has them says he cannot spare any more; he has only five, and cannot part with another.
The second boy, however, duns him. He even acts the hypocrite, and puts into play many of the
worst artifices of human nature, which we so often see in daily practice, and he gains his
end. But he is not yet satisfied; he wishes another. The first boy, however, will on no account
give him more. He again tries all his arts, but in vain. Seeing he cannot by art or entreaty
gain another, he has recourse to violence. He snatches one out of his companion's hand and
runs off with it. The first boy is irritated at such conduct, he pursues the fugitive, overtakes
him, and gives him a blow on the face. The second boy is as great a coward as he is a thief.
He comes up and makes his complaint to the master. The master then has a trial by jury. He
does not knock one head against the other according to the old custom, but he hears both plaintiff
and defendant, and having got the facts, he submits to the children themselves whether it was
right in the one boy to take with violence What was not his own, and shews them which is the
more to blame. Then they decide on the sentence; perhaps some one suggests that it should be
the utmost infliction allowable, a slight pat on the hand; while a tender-hearted girl says,
"Please, sir, give it him very softly;" but the issue is, a marked distinction between right
and wrong;--appropriate expressions of pleasure and disapprobation:--and on the spot, "a kissing
and being friends." I am, indeed, so firmly convinced, from the experience I have had, of the
utility of a play-ground, from the above reasons, and others, elsewhere mentioned, that I scruple
not to say, an infant school is of little, if any, service without one.

Where the play-ground is ornamented with flowers, fruit-trees, &c. (and I would recommend this
plan to be invariably adopted,) it not only affords the teacher an opportunity of communicating
much knowledge to the children, and of tracing every thing up to the Great First Cause, but
it becomes the means of establishing principles of honesty. They should not on any account
be allowed to pluck the fruit or flowers; every thing should be considered as sacred; and being
thus early accustomed to honesty, temptations in after-life will be deprived of their power.
It is distressing to all lovers of children, to see what havoc is made by them in plantations
near London; and even grown persons are not entirely free from this fault, for, not content
with a proper foot-path, they must walk on a man's plantations, pull up that which can be of
no use, and thereby injure the property of their neighbour. These things ought not to be, nor
do I think they would be so common, if they were noticed a little more in the education of
children. It has been too much the practice with many, to consider that the business of a school
consists merely in teaching children their letters; but I am of opinion, that the formation
of character while there, is of the greatest importance, not only to the children, but to society
at large. How can we account for the strict honesty of the Laplanders, who can leave their
property in the woods, and in their huts, without the least fear of its being stolen or injured,
while we, with ten times the advantages, cannot consider our property safe, with the aid of
locks and bolts, brick walls, and even watchmen and police-officers besides? There must be
some cause for all this, and perhaps the principal one is defective education, and the total
neglect of the morals of the infant poor, at a time when their first impressions should be
taken especial care of; for conscience, if not lulled to sleep, but called into vigorous action,
will prove stronger than brick walls, bolts, or locks; and I am satisfied, that I could have
taken the whole of the children under my care in the first infants' school, into any gentleman's
plantation, without their doing the least injury whatever; and this I could now do in any similar
circumstances. I will mention, however, one fact.

One day, while I was walking in the play-ground, I saw at one end of it about twenty children,
apparently arguing a subject, pro and con; from the attitude of several of the orators, I judged
it was about something that appeared to them of considerable importance. I wished to know the
subject of debate, but was satisfied that if I approached the children it might put an end
to the matter altogether. Some of the bystanders saw me looking very attentively at the principal
actor, and, as I suppose, suggested to the party the propriety of retiring to some other spot,
for immediately afterwards they all went behind a partition, which afforded me an opportunity
of distinctly hearing all that passed, without being observed by them. I soon found that the
subject of debate was a song. It seems that one of the children had brought a song to the school,
which some of the monitors had read, and having decided that it was an improper thing for the
child to have in his possession, one of them had taken it from the owner, and destroyed it.
The aggrieved party had complained to some of the other children, who said that it was thieving
for one child to take any thing from another child, without his consent. The boy, nettled at
being called a thief, defended himself, by saying that he, as a monitor, had a right to take
away from any of his class any thing that was calculated to do them harm; and was, it seems,
backed in this opinion by many others. On the other hand, it was contended that no such right
existed; and it was doubtful to me for a considerable time, on which side the strength of the
argument lay. At last one of the children observed to the following effect:--"You should have
taken it to master, because he would know if it was bad better than you." This was a convincing
argument, and to my great delight, the boy replied--"How much did the song cost?" The reply
was, "A half-penny." "Here, then, take it," says the child, "I had one given me to-day; so
now remember I have paid you for it, but if you bring any more songs to school I will tell
master." This seemed to give general satisfaction to the whole party, who immediately dispersed
to their several amusements. A struggle like this, between the principles of duty and honesty,
among children so very young, must prove highly interesting to all who love them, and exemplifies,
beyond a doubt, the immense advantage of early instruction.

Another thing to be noticed is, a regard for truth. Nothing is so delightful as this. There
is no conversation so agreeable as that of the man of integrity, who hears without any design
to betray, and speaks without any intention to deceive; and this admitted, we should strive
to the utmost to induce children to remember it. But our success, in a great measure, will
depend on the means we employ. Many children are frightened into falsehood by the injudicious
methods of those who have the care of them. I have known a mother promise a child forgiveness
if it would speak the truth, and, after having obtained confession, she has broken her engagement.
A child, once treated in this manner, will naturally be guarded against a similar deception.
I have known others who would pretend not to punish the child for confession, but for first
denying it, and afterwards confessing. I think that children should not be punished, on any
account, after having been promised forgiveness, truth being of too great importance to be
thus trifled with; and we cannot wonder if it is lightly esteemed by children, after the example
is set by their parents. Having had several thousand children under my care, I have had favourable
opportunities of observing the bias of the infant mind, and I must say, that I have not found
them so inclined to evil and falsehood as I had previously imagined.

When morality is adverted to in this volume, let it never be forgotten, that by it is meant
the pure and perfect morality of the sacred Scriptures. From this source alone the great truths
and precepts can be derived, for regulating the conscience and improving the heart. The infant
system, however, would aim to steer perfectly clear of the more remote theological opinions
entertained by Christians of different denominations. With these, little children can have
nothing to do, and institutions for their express benefit should receive the support of all.
What kind of religious doctrine and faith infants ought to be taught, I will not here determine,
but leave it for consideration in a future chapter devoted more expressly to that subject.
It must be the wish of all true Christians that they should be taught the fundamental truths
of the everlasting Gospel. But it is much to be lamented that what are the fundamental truths
of the gospel is so frequently a debatable point. With such controversial topics infants have
nothing to do, and to teach such matters would rather be sowing seeds for future scepticism
than laying a solid basis for pure and undefiled religion. In all things, but more especially
in religion, as being the subject of the highest importance, the purest, simplest, and most
unadulterated truths should be taught. The Bible contains ample and abundant stores of such
simple truth, most admirably suited to infant capacity in texts, precepts, parables, and histories.
The pious and judicious mother or teacher can be at no loss for a proper selection. Many beautiful
and simple prayers are to be found in the Church of England Prayer-Book, which I think cannot
be mended, and which I have found quite suitable to the infant mind. Several of the Collects,
for simplicity of language and rich fulness of divine truth, cannot be surpassed. Simple hymns
for instruction and devotion are also requisite, and I have endeavoured to provide such as
these in a Manual, recently published in connexion with a friend, and which may be bad through
the publisher of this work.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Wisdom seeks the most desirable ends in the use of the most appropriate means."

       *       *       *       *       *

I shall now lay before my readers an account of the things necessary for the establishment
of an infant school; previously to presenting them with the detail of the plan to be pursued in it.

In the first place, it is necessary to provide an airy and spacious apartment, with a dry,
and, if possible, a large play-ground attached to it. The plot of ground, I conceive, should
not be less than 50 feet wide, and 100 feet long; but if the ground were 150, or 200 feet long,
it would be so much the better, as this would allow 100 or 150 feet for a play-ground; which
is of such importance, that I consider the system would be very defective without it, for reasons
which will be spoken of hereafter.

There should likewise be a room about fifteen feet square, for the purpose of teaching the
children in classes, which may be formed at one end of the large room: this is absolutely necessary.
As the master and mistress should live on the premises, a small house, containing three or
four rooms, should be provided for them. The reason for their living on the premises is, that
the children should be allowed to bring their dinners with them, as this will keep them out
of the streets; and, indeed, of those who do go home to dinner, many will return in a very
short time; and if there be no person on the premises to take care of them, they will be lost;
and not only so, but strange boys will come in from the streets, and do a great deal of mischief,
if no one be there to prevent it.

The portion of sitting-room that I have allowed for each child is twelve inches. The scholars
should sit all round the school room, with their backs against the wall; double seats should
be round the sides of the school, like the two first seats in the gallery. A school according
to the engraved plan, will be found large enough for all the purposes of an infant school;
but if it is wished to be more commodious, it may be of the same length as the plan, and instead
of twenty-two feet, may be made thirty feet wide; this will hold as many children as ought
to be collected together in one place, and as many as any man and woman can possibly do justice
to if it be any longer, it will be difficult for all the children to hear the master. An oblong
building is the cheapest, on account of the roof. Economy has been studied in the plan given,
without any thing being added that is unnecessary. This, of course, is a matter of opinion,
and may be acted upon or not, just as it suits those who may choose to build. The master's
house in the plan, it will be seen, projects a little into the play-ground, to afford him the
opportunity of seeing the children at play while he is at dinner, that he may notice any improper
conduct on the part of the children, and mention it when the accounts of the day are made up.

As children are very apt to get into danger, even when at school, it becomes expedient to exercise
the utmost vigilance, in order to prevent the possibility of accident; for where two hundred
children are assembled together, the eldest not seven years of age, it is most certain that
if there be danger, some will get into. For this reason, all the doors on the premises should
be so secured, that the children cannot swing them backwards and forwards; if they are not,
they will get their fingers pinched, or greater accidents may occur. The forms also should
be so placed that the children may not be likely to fall over them. Every thing, in short,
should be put out of the way, that will be likely to occasion any danger. The seats should
not be more than nine inches high; and for the smaller children six inches; and should be eleven
or twelve inches wide; and fixed all round to the walls.

The master's desk should be placed at the end of the school, where the class-room is. By this
means he will be able to see the faces of all the children, and they can see him, which is
absolutely necessary. They may then be governed by a motion of his hand.

The furniture necessary for the school consists of a desk for the master; seats for the children;
lesson-stands; stools for the monitors; slates and pencils; pictures and lessons on scriptural
subjects; pictures and lessons on natural history; alphabets and spelling lessons; brass letters
and figures, with boards for them; geometrical figures, &c.; and the transposition-frame, or
arithmeticon, as it has been called. To these may added little books, &c. The particular use
of these articles will be shewn in the succeeding pages.

The following is a representation of a lesson-post.

The lessons, pasted on wood, to render them sufficiently stiff, are put into the grooves of
the lesson-post; and can then be placed in any position which is most convenient, and adjusted
to any height, as the master may see proper.

The following lesson-post has been found to answer better than the preceding one; and is fixed
in a socket, which prevents the necessity of the cross-bar feet at bottom, and possesses this
advantage, that it may be taken out when done with, and hung up by the side of the wall, so
as to allow the area of the room to be quite clear of any incumbrance, and to be used for any
other purpose. No. 2, is the socket which should be let into the floor and screwed fast to
the side of a joist, so as to keep it perfectly steady; the socket is to be open at bottom
so as to let the dust pass through: and No. 1, is a plate, to fit over the socket, to come
flush with the floor, to be put over it when the lesson-post is taken out, to prevent too much
dust from getting into the socket. The little nich represented in plate one, is too small for
the pupils to get their fingers into, so as to pull up the plate, but wide enough to allow
the teacher to put a very narrow key in, when he desires to pull up the plate to put the lesson-post
in the socket. No. 3, is a front view of the lesson-post, containing the slides nipping the
lessons between them; the other figure represents a side view of the lesson post, and the small
figure at the left hand side represents the groove of the two sliders to receive the lesson,
and the back part of it the dovetails to clip, which come down behind the post; these are placed
parallel in double rows down the school, at equal distances, exactly opposite each other; and
flattened brass or iron is to be let into the floor, opposite to the front of them, as shewn
in one of the engravings representing the area of the school, and the children at their object
lessons. I have found by experience that this invention possesses a decided advantage over
the other, as they always remain perpendicular and parallel to each other, take up less room,
and are more easily put out of the way, and the children cannot knock them down; they should
be numbered in front as represented in the figure, so that the teacher may always put the proper
post in its own place.

The Arithmeticon, of which a description will be given in a subsequent chapter, is simple in
its construction, but, as will be seen hereafter, may be variously and beneficially applied.
It is indeed indispensable in an infant school, as it is useful for teaching the first principles
of grammar, arithmetic, and geometry. The expense of furnishing a large school is about £16.;
that of a smaller one about £10.

I must here protest against a violation of the freedom of the infant mind. A fold, as it is
called, is erected in some schools for the youngest of the children; and thus they are cut
off from the society of the rest, from whom they would learn much more than they could from
any teacher. The monitors having charge of this class, are also cooped up in the same cage,
and therefore suffer the same privation. The result of my own experience, as well as that of
others, is, that a child is decidedly incompetent to the duties of a monitor, if he cannot
keep the youngest class in order without any such means. I would therefore deprecate, in the
strongest terms, the separation referred to, as not only altogether unnecessary, but exceedingly
injurious.

To have one hundred children, or upwards, in a room, however convenient in other respects,
and not to allow the children proper relaxation and exercise, which they could not have without
a play-ground, would materially injure their health, which is a thing, in my humble opinion,
of the first importance. I would rather see a school where they charged two-pence or three-pence
per week for each child, having a play-ground, than one where the children had free admission
without one; for I think the former institution would do the most good. The play ground, likewise,
is one of the most useful parts of the system. It is there the child shews itself in its true
character, and thereby gives the master an opportunity of nipping in the bud its evil propensities.
I am, therefore, most anxious to recommend that this necessary appendage to an infant school
should not be dispensed with. I moreover observe, that where there is a play-ground attached
to the school, instead of playing in the streets, where scarcely anything but evil is before
their eyes, the children will hasten to the school, with their bread and butter in their hands,
in less than a quarter of an hour after they have left it, knowing that they have an opportunity
of playing there the remainder of their dinner-time, so that they love the school, and but
rarely wish to be anywhere else.

The play-grounds of some schools are paved with bricks, which I have found to answer very well,
as they absorb the rain so quickly, that ten minutes after a shower, the place is dry enough
for the children to play in; which, perhaps, would not be the case with any other kind of paving.
They are commonly placed flat on the ground, but I should prefer them being put edge-ways,
as they would last many years longer, yet it would take nearly double the number of bricks
were they so placed.[A] If it be not paved, the ground will be soft, and the children will
make themselves dirty. It should be so managed that the water may be carried off, for, if there
are any puddles, the children will get into them. Some persons have recommended a few cart-loads
of good iron-mould gravel, there being a sort which will bind almost like a rock, if well rolled;
but the children are liable to dig holes if it is only gravel. If this is noticed in time it
may be prevented; but if they are suffered to proceed, and no notice be taken of it, it will
be very difficult to prevent them from continuing the practice. If money can be saved by any
plan, perhaps it is as well to notice it; but after having weighed the advantages and disadvantages
of gravelling, I am of opinion, that bricks are preferable. I should also recommend that fruit-trees
be planted in the centre of the play-ground, and likewise round the walls; which will delight
the children, and teach them to respect private property. If any person doubts the propriety
of this plan, I can only say we leave many play-grounds thus ornamented: and instead of proving
a temptation to the children, it has so far become the means of confirming principles of honesty
in them, that they never touch a single flower or even a leaf in the garden. There should also
be a border of flowers round the play-ground, of such sorts as will yield the most fragrance,
which will tend to counteract any disagreeable smell that may proceed from the children, and
thereby be conducive to their health, as well as to that of those who have the charge of them.
They will, besides, afford the teacher an opportunity of giving the children many useful lessons;
for the more he teaches by things, and the less he teaches by signs, the better. These things
need be no expense to the establishment, except the purchase in the first instance, for they
will afford an agreeable occupation for the master before and after school-hours, prepare him
in some measure for the duties of the day, and afford him an ample opportunity of instilling
a variety of ideas into the minds of the children, and of tracing every thing up to the Great
First Cause. I have witnessed the good effects of these things, which makes me desirous of
humbly but earnestly recommending them to others.

[Footnote A: In Lancashire, and other places where flagging is cheap, it has been found decidedly
better than any other plan alluded to above, the children will not hurt themselves more by
falling on flags than they would on bricks or pebbles.]

With regard to the expense: if 200 children pay two-pence each per week[A], which is now the
usual charge, the annual receipts will be, deducting four weeks for holidays, about £80, and
if the deficiency be made up by subscriptions and donations from the friends of the system,
it may be easily adopted, and all its advantages secured. A village school might be furnished
for half the money, and supported at less than half the expense. I QUESTION WHETHER IT DOES
NOT COST THE COUNTRY AS MUCH FOR EVERY INDIVIDUAL THAT IS TRANSPORTED OUT OF IT, AS WOULD SUPPORT
THREE INFANT SCHOOLS ANNUALLY, and secure good pay to the teachers, with 200 infants in each
school.

[Footnote A: In some parts of St. Giles's, Wapping, &c., &c., many of the parents are not able
to pay, and many that are, would sooner let their children run the streets than pay a penny;
yet the children of the latter persons are the greater objects of charity; and it is the children
of such persons that chiefly fill our prisons. We want three classes of infant schools: one
for the middle class, who will pay; for skilled mechanics, who will pay 2d. or 3d. per week;
and for the poor and illiterate who will pay nothing.]

Every year increases my conviction of the great importance of the play-ground, and of the folly
of some of my early views respecting it. Finding a great variety of lessons and objects necessary
to arrest the attention of children, diversified as they are in disposition and taste, it was
supposed that an equal variety of toys was required for the play-ground. A good supply of balls,
battledores, shuttlecocks, tops, whips, skipping-ropes, hoops, sticks, and wheelbarrows, was,
therefore, obtained, and we flattered ourselves that this must produce universal happiness.
In thus, however, we were most grievously disappointed; for the balls frequently bounced over
the wall,--the players, not being able to throw them with the precision of Spartan children,
sometimes struck their comrades, perhaps, in the eye: if we could succeed in quieting the sufferer,
by a kiss and a sugar-plum, the ear was as immediately afterwards saluted with the cry of,
"O, my chin, my chin," from some hapless wight having been star-gazing, and another, anxious
for as many strokes as possible, mistaking that part for the bottom of his shuttlecock; while
this would be followed by, "O, my leg," from the untoward movement of a stick or a barrow.
In short, such scenes were insupportable; and what with the accidents that arose, and the tops
without strings, and the strings without tops, the hoops without sticks, and the sticks without
hoops, the seizure of the favourite toy by one, and the inability of another to get any thing,
it was evident that we were wrong, but not so clear how we could do otherwise.

It then occurred that we might provide some wood-bricks, about four inches long, an inch and
a half thick, and two inches and a half wide, and of these a thousand were obtained. With these
children are exceedingly amused from the variety of forms in which they may be placed, and
of buildings which may be erected with them.

The play-ground should always be at the rear of the premises, and as private as possible, that
both teachers and pupils be secure from annoyance of any kind. The entrance should be only
through the school, and no other way; this secures the flowers, the fruits, and the moral training
of the children.

In addition to these, all that is required is a rotatory swing, of which the above is a representation.
To make one, a pole eighteen or twenty feet long should be firmly fixed in the ground: three
feet of the but-end should be sunk, secured by sleepers to keep it steady: it should be at
least three quarters of a yard in girth at bottom, and taper gradually to the top to half that
size. An iron rim is to be driven on the head of the pole to keep it from splitting, and then
a spindle at least an inch in diameter, with a shoulder, is to be fixed in it; an iron wheel
with four spokes turned up at the end like a hook, to which four ropes are to be fastened,
must then be made to revolve on the spindle. As the ropes reach the ground, four children may
take hold of them and run round until they bear the whole weight of the body on the arms; and
this exercise will be found to strengthen the muscles, and give vigour to the whole frame.
In a large school there should be two swings of this kind,--one for the girls, and the other
for the boys. The teachers must, however, be careful the first few weeks, to train the children
to look about them: this they are but little disposed to do, hence the most impressive manner
should be adopted, and I will venture to say, should any injury be sustained by the children,
the fault will not be theirs. The effect of the instruction thus urged will be valuable in
other cases; for a child, thus taught to watch against accident, will be careful in passing
crossings, and going through crowded streets, and thus be likely to escape many dangers into
which others fall. This exercise may also be accompanied by instruction, as the children may
repeat "The Cow," or "The Sheep," or any other lesson, as the measure of the time during which
four may have the swing. It will, moreover, afford an opportunity for detecting the selfishness
of some children, by their wishing to keep the ropes too long, and the passion of others, from
the vehemence with which they will insist on their rights; but, as on such occasion, both are
to be forbidden to swing any more that day, they will soon learn to bear and forbear.

In the event of a child being thrown down from standing in the way, all the children should
be placed in the gallery, and this one shewn them. If it appear hurt, all will pity it; let
then the question be put, How did this happen? and the answer will be, perhaps, "Please, sir,
because he did not make use of his eyes." Here, then, is full opportunity to inculcate caution,
and to inform and benefit the whole. For example: the master may say, How many senses have
we? The children will answer, Five. Master.--Name them. Children.--Hearing, seeing, smelling,
tasting, and feeling. M. Where are the organs of sight? C. Here (pointing to the eyes). M.
Look at this child, and see if he has them. (Here an inspection will take place, the sufferer
will look sheepish, and begin to perceive he has not made the best use of the sense of seeing,
whilst the singular observations of the children will sharpen his faculties, and make such
an impression as to cause him to be more cautious in future; and many a scholar who is sitting
in judgment will profit by the circumstance.) I have known the lives of several children saved
by such simple lessons, and they are of as much importance as any that are taught, though I
am not quite sure that all the teachers will think so. Too many, to save trouble, will find
fault with the swing; and I have known several instances where the swing had been taken down
in consequence. We have found the swing answer in all three countries; it strengthens the muscles,
which, in physical education, is a matter of the highest importance. It has been introduced
into juvenile schools with similar success; and, also, in ladies' boarding-schools I have personally
inspected tine effects produced. Under all these circumstances, and in every instance, I have
found the most beneficial effects produced, provided the exercise was properly regulated and
superintended. It will not do, therefore, to have this important part of the system dispensed
with. The teachers must be present at all the exercises in the play-ground, or, more properly
speaking, the training-ground. Non-attention to this is a capital error; and, if persisted
in, must be followed with dismissal.

       *       *       *       *       *

--"Such authority, in shew, When most severe and minist'ring all its force, Is but the graver
countenance of love, Whose favour, like the clouds of spring may lower, And utter now and then
an awful voice, But has a blessing in its darkest frown, Threat'ning at once and nourishing
the plant."--Thomson.

       *       *       *       *       *

I enter on this chapter with a full recollection of the painful sense of incompetency I endured
on becoming "a teacher of babes;" and this, I trust, will enable me to offer any remarks on
the present subject with the humility that is desirable, blended with the confidence of experience.
It is a very common idea, that almost any person can educate little children, and that it requires
little or no ability; but it will be found, on an enlightened and correct estimate of the work,
that this is a very great mistake: and I regret that this mistake has been made by those who
professed to understand the system, and who have written upon it. But there is just this slight
difference between theory and practice: theory supposes such and such things to be correct,
which was my own case; but twelve months only of practical effort very soon convinced me I
was wrong. How frequently, for instance, may we find children, ten or twelve years of age,
who cannot answer the most simple question, and who, nevertheless, have been to school for
several years. To give the children correct notions, is a part of education seldom thought
of: but if we really wish to form the character of the rising generation, and to improve the
condition of society generally, the utmost attention must be given to this object. Little,
I should think, need be said to prove, that few ideas are given in dame-schools. There may
be a few as to which an exception should be made; but, generally speaking, where the children
of mechanics are usually sent before the age of seven years, no such thing is thought of. The
mind of a child is compared by Mr. Locke to a sheet of blank paper, and if it be the business
of a tutor to inscribe valuable lessons on the mind, it will require much patience, gentleness,
perseverance, self-possession, energy, knowledge of human nature, and, above all, piety,--simple,
sincere, and practical piety,--to accomplish so great a work with propriety and success.

Whoever is in possession of these requisites, with the addition of a lively temper, pleasing
countenance, and some knowledge of music, may be considered as a proper person to manage an
infant school; and whoever has charge of such an institution will find numerous opportunities
of displaying each and all of these qualifications. It would be almost useless to attempt to
cure the bad tempers of children, if the master should encourage and manifest such evil tempers
in his own conduct; for children are not indifferent to what they see in others: they certainly
take notice of all our movements, and consequently the greatest caution is necessary. It will
be of little purpose to endeavour to inculcate suitable precepts in the minds of the children,
unless they see them shine forth in the conduct of the teacher.

How strangely it would sound, if, when a teacher was explaining to his pupils the sin of swearing,
a child should say, "Please, sir, I heard you swear;" and it is just the same as to those faults
which some may consider of minor importance,--such as the indulgence of angry passions,--in
the presence of children. It must always be understood, that the essence of the plan is to
allow the children to speak,--not what they do not feel and think, which has been but too general,--but
what they do think and feel. This children will always do if rightly trained. Yes, with modesty
and decorum, but with power! What will the old class of pedagogues say to this? What! allow
pupils to tell you of your faults! Certainly; they know them; at least, those committed in
their presence. They talk of them to themselves, why not to us? Some of the best lessons I
ever got were under similar circumstances.

Persons, in such circumstances, cannot be too circumspect, as every trifling fault will be
magnified, both by parents and children. Indeed, character is of so much importance, that the
designs of benevolent individuals are very often frustrated by appointing improper persons
to fill such situations. I have seen, more than once, the interests of two hundred babes sacrificed
to serve one individual; and persons have been chosen merely because they had been unfortunate,
and to serve them they have been placed in a situation disagreeable to themselves, and unprofitable
to the children. It is one thing to possess certain information, but it is another to be able
to communicate that information to infants. Patience is a virtue absolutely indispensable,
as it will frequently take the master or mistress a whole hour to investigate a subject that
may appear of little or no importance: such as one child accusing another of stealing a trifle,--as
a plum, a cherry, a button, or any other thing of little value. The complainant and defendant
will expect justice done to them by the master or mistress; and in order to do this, much time
and trouble will, in some cases, be necessary. Should a hasty conclusion be formed, and the
accused be punished for what he has not been guilty of, the child will be sensible that an
injury has been done him, feel dissatisfied with his tutors, and, consequently, will not pay
them the respect they ought to have. Besides, it will frequently be found, on examination,
that the accuser is really the most in fault, and I think I have convinced many children that
this has been the case, and they have retired satisfied with my decision. For when a child
is convinced that justice will be done him, he will open his case freely and boldly; but if
he has any idea that it will be otherwise, he will keep one half of the facts in his own mind,
and will not reveal them. I once formed a hasty conclusion in the case of two children, and
happened to decide directly contrary to what I ought to have done; the consequence was, that
the injured child endeavoured to do that for himself which he found I had not done for him,
and pleaded his own cause with the opposite party in the play-ground; but finding that he could
not prevail on him, and being sensible that he had been wronged, he was so much hurt, that
he brought his father the next day, and we re-considered the case; when it was found that the
child was correct, and that I was wrong. Here I found how necessary it was to exercise the
utmost patience, in order to enable me to judge rightly, and to convince my little pupils,
that I had the greatest desire to do them justice. I compare an infant school to a little commonwealth,
the head or governor of which is naturally the master. An infant school master or mistress
is not to consider anything relating to the rights of his little community, as trifling or
unimportant. However justly it might be considered such in itself, yet, comparatively, it is
a matter of moment to the parties concerned, and such therefore it should be esteemed by him
who is the arbitrator of their rights and the legislator and judge of the infant state. He
will have, indeed, to act the part of counsel, judge, and jury; and although the children cannot
find words to plead their own cause, yet by their looks and gestures, they will convince you
that they know when you have rightly decided; and it appears to me, that the future conduct
of the children in the world, will depend, in a great measure, upon the correctness of the
master's decisions.

One would suppose, to hear the observations of some persons, that mere automatons would do
for masters and mistresses. By them the system is considered as every thing, while the persons
who are to teach it, have been considered as secondary objects; but a system, however perfect
in itself, will be productive of little good, unless it be committed to persons possessed of
some degree of skill; as the best watch will go wrong, if not properly attended to. We cannot,
therefore, be too circumspect in the choice of the persons to whom we commit the care and education
of the rising generation. There is something so powerful in correctness of deportment, that
even infants respect it; and this will operate more on their minds than many imagine. It does
not appear necessary to me, that children should be kept under excessive restraint by their
tutors; they should rather be encouraged to make their teacher their confidant, for by this
means he will become acquainted with many things, the knowledge of which it is essential he
should possess, both as it regards himself; and the welfare of his pupils. If the child be
enthralled, he will seek some other persons to whom he may open his little mind, and should
that person be ill-disposed, the most serious consequences will not unfrequently follow. I
know the source from whence all assistance is derived, and I am taught to believe, that such
assistance will not be withheld from those who diligently seek it. I am well aware that I shall
have to render an account of my stewardship to the Almighty, for every child that may have
been placed under my care, and I feel that to do so unblameably, requires much assistance from
above.

Let not those, then, who are similarly circumstanced with myself; think that I address them
in the spirit of arrogance, with a pre-conceived opinion of my own sufficiency. I wish that
all who teach may be more fit for the situation than I am. I know many who are an honour to
their profession, as well as the situation they fill; but, I am sorry to say, I think they
do not all meet with the encouragement they merit. It is not always those who do their duty
the best that are most valued; but if a man's conscience do not upbraid him, he has in its
approval a high reward.

And now, as to a matter on which there is some difference of opinion, viz., whether women are
or are not as fit for conductors of infant schools as men; my decided opinion is, that alone
they are not. There should be in every school a master and a mistress. In the first place,
in an infant school, the presence of the man, as of a father in a family, will insure a far
greater degree of respect and attention on the part of the children. This does not arise from
the exercise of any greater degree of harshness or severity than a mother would be capable
of using; nor is it to be attributed, as some suppose, to the less frequent presence of the
father in the case of many families, but is rather to be accounted for by an intuitive perception
of the greater firmness and determination of the character of the man. To those who deny this,
I would give as a problem for solution, a case by no means unfrequent, and which most of my
readers will have witnessed,--a family in which the mother--by no means incurring the charge
of spoiling the child, by sparing the rod--is less heeded, less promptly obeyed in her commands,
than a father who seldom or never makes use of any such means. The mother scolds, threatens,
scourges, and is at last reluctantly and imperfectly obeyed; the father, either with reference
to his own commands, or seconding those of the mother, speaks, and is instantly regarded. The
idea of disputing his authority, or neglecting or disobeying his laws, never once enters the
minds of his children. Exactly the same is it in an infant school,--the presence of a man insures
attention and gains respect from the children, not only at first, whilst the novelty of such
control might be supposed to operate, but permanently; as I am sure all who have candidly examined
the schools where two women preside, and those conducted by a man and a woman, must have seen.

Another objection to the sole government of females (I mean the class of females who are likely
to accept such situations) in these schools, is, they have not the physical strength, nor,
at present, intellectual powers, sufficient for the task. In saying thus, I trust I shall not
be suspected of wishing to offend my fair countrywomen. That they have not sufficient physical
strength is the intention of nature; that they are deficient in mental energy is the defect
of education. I trust, therefore, that no offence will be assumed where no blame is attached.
It has been a point much disputed, whether there be really an original and intrinsic difference
in the mental powers of the two sexes, and it has been of course differently decided by the
respective disputants. With this I shall have nothing to do; but these things are certain;
that the minds of both are capable of much greater activity and more important results than
have been generally supposed; and that whilst education has not done what it ought for man,
it has done far less for woman. This it is, then, which affords an additional argument in my
mind for a master and a mistress. For let it not be imagined, that I would dismiss women altogether
from the system--that I think them useless or even dispensable in an infant school. If, indeed,
one or the other must be done without, and I had my choice, I should certainly give my voice
for a woman; but to carry the system into full effect requires both. There is ample opportunity
for the offices of maternal love, of which man is at best but a poor imitator; neither can
it be denied, that an active intelligent woman is a useful auxiliary to the labours of the
man in the duties of the school. The authoritative presence of the man is the more necessary
in the infant system, because one grand object is, to rule without harshness, and by that principle
of love which is in no degree incompatible with the respect felt for a kind but judicious schoolmaster.
Some children, indeed, so far as regards authority, might be very well managed by a mistress
only, but then it must be recollected that an infant school exhibits every variety of temper
and disposition; and even were it otherwise, the objection as to intellectual incompetence
and physical strength, before adverted to, would still hold good.

Such, indeed, is the opinion of the unfitness of females for the occupation of teaching, in
Scotland, that in many places the very idea of it is scouted. The people of that country have
scarcely heard of a school-mistress, even for the youngest children; and certain it is, that
education is much better conducted in Scotland than in most other places. If the minds of children
are to be cultivated, and a firm and decided tone given to their characters, say they, what
can be the use of sending them to a school conducted by a woman only? And I must candidly admit,
that I perfectly agree with them on this head, and have therefore deemed it my duty to be thus
explicit on the matter.[A]

[Footnote A: I am sorry to say that, at this time, the people of Scotland have been led into
the same error, of which I have complained. I did hope they would never have allowed themselves
to be led away from their old, judicious, and workable plans, far the sake of party, or fashion;
but so it is, and it is much to be regretted: however, it is a consolation to know that it
is not universal.]

One thing I must add, by way of conclusion: to render any man or woman competent to discharge
the duties of the situation efficiently, the heart of the teacher must be in the school. If
there be not the zeal of the amateur, the skill of the professor will be of little avail. The
maxim will apply to every species of occupation, but it is peculiarly true as to that of an
infant school teacher. To those who can feel no other interest than that which the profit gives
to the employment, it will soon become not only irksome, but exceedingly distasteful. But certain
I am that it is possible to feel it to be what it is--an employment not only most important,
but likewise most interesting. It is one which a philosopher might choose for the study of
the human character, and a philanthropist for its improvement.

One word more, and I have done. I have seen what I could have wished had been otherwise, viz.,
not sufficient discrimination used in giving religious instruction; improper times have been
chosen, too much shew has been made of it, too much freedom has been used with the divine names;
and I have sometimes been so shocked at the levity displayed, as to have considered it little
less than profanation.

I wish to lay the utmost stress on what has been stated, as a failure on the part of a master
and mistress is most grievous and lamentable. I have seen schools, where little or nothing
has been done, because of the inefficiency of the teachers. Moral and religious qualifications
are confessedly of the first importance, but those which are mental are to be highly estimated.
I differ with a gentleman who has written on this subject, when he says, that any clever boy
who has been educated in a national school, will accomplish the end; because the system through
which he has passed neither gives a sufficient knowledge of things nor of words, nor does it
sufficiently develop the faculties to prepare him for such a service.

One cause of failure in these respects has been undoubtedly the paltry remuneration which some
receive, and I would earnestly recommend the supporters and conductors of infant schools to
try the effect of liberality by all the means they can command. Persons of talent ought to
be found for this work, and then they should be appropriately paid; but if any are to be deemed
suitable, and if the having them at a low rate be a special reason for their engagement, it
would be better at once to revert to the old system, than to destroy, by such means, the public
confidence in the plans now suggested.

I entertain a full conviction that the infant system will flourish most where I once least
expected its adoption: I mean in Scotland, because of the high importance attached to the essential
qualifications of teachers, and because of the attention and kindness which they continually
receive.

It is to be lamented that most of the schools connected with the established church are managed
by women only, whilst the schools connected with the dissenters are generally conducted by
a man and woman; the consequence is, that the children educated under the dissenters will be
better taught than those connected with the established church, which is an error I should
be glad to see remedied as soon as possible. I have no need to speak in favour of infant school
masters, as many of them have been the greatest enemies I ever had, whilst on the contrary,
the mistresses have generally been very friendly to me, and not been subject to those petty
jealousies which the masters have too frequently evinced; nevertheless, the subject treated
of in this place involves a principle which cannot be conceded without doing great injury to
the infant system, and on those grounds I advocate the necessity of a master in conjunction
with the mistress. Many teachers, and other persons who have written on the subject, have talked
largely of making improvements, whilst the hints given in this book have been entirely neglected;
as this was the first book that ever was written on the subject, and the writer of it the first
man that ever brought the thing practically to bear, it sounds a little odd, that people should
talk about improvements before they have pointed out the errors of the original inventor. Others
again have borrowed largely from me, and have neither had the good manners nor the common honesty
to say from whence they got their information. Societies have been formed at the eleventh hour,
after the infant system had been twenty years in practice, who puff off books written by some
of their own members, which do not contain the original idea, whilst my books, for some cause
best known to themselves, have never been recommended, or indeed ever mentioned, though I could
take page after page from those modern writers on the subject, and justly claim them as my
own. This is not what one ought to expect amongst people who call themselves Christians: a
truly good man is delighted to do justice to his fellow-men, because in doing so, he never
fails to obtain justice himself; but there are some persons whose minds are so truly selfish
that they cannot see how good can accrue to themselves, if they do what is right to others:
and I regret to say I have met with not a few, who have been engaged in the art of teaching,
who have been guilty of the mean and contemptible conduct I have hinted at above, and it is
to deter others from falling into the same errors that I have ventured to allude to this subject
at all. It would be invidious to mention names, which I could very easily do, and should this
be persisted in, if I am spared, I shall most certainly mention the parties by name. I would
not be understood to say that no improvements can be made in the infant system: far from it.
No doubt it will be improved, and that to a great extent; but that will only be in process
of time, and by practical people, who understand more of the nature of the infant mind than
I do, and may hereafter have greater experience than I have had; but they must work hard for
it, as I have done, and be doers as well as talkers: and when I see such improvements made,
I trust the Almighty will enable me to be the first to acknowledge them. At present, however,
though I have travelled over a large space, and visited many hundred schools, and also opened
many hundred, and have not yet seen the mighty improvements of which I have read so much, and
I do beg that those teachers who may be engaged in the system will be kind enough to try my
plans, prior to introducing so many crotchets of their own. They are to recollect we never
intended to make prodigies of the little children; it never was our object to teach them things
that were only fit for men and women: the fact must never be lost sight of that they are infants,
and that as infants they must be treated.

It is very easy for any one to theorise, and form schemes for the education of children, and
to introduce changes which may appear beneficial. Fancy is very prolific, and a number of books
may easily be read, and yet the right knowledge not be gained. The chief book to be studied
is the infant mind itself, considered as a great and wonderful work of the Creator, with a
sincere desire to know all its faculties and powers, and the various simple laws by which its
operations are governed. The teacher ought also to turn his thoughts within himself, to study
his own mind, especially in his recollections of very early childhood, and the modes by which
knowledge is gradually acquired. These things, carefully and dilligently done, will give more
information on the proper method of educating and developing the young mind than the perusal
of a hundred volumes. This I have endeavoured all my life to do, and have had to deal with
many thousands of children who have been to me a book for constant study. From this extensive
observation and experience, all my plans have been formed, and my opinions derived. If any
one has done the same, or more, to him I will gladly concede; but I am not aware that any one
individual, not even Pestalozzi, has run a similar career.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Whate'er is best administer'd is best."--Pope.

       *       *       *       *       *

Having had considerable practice in teaching children in the various parts of England, Scotland,
Ireland, and Wales, it may be necessary to give a few hints on the subject of organizing an
infant school. I have generally found on opening one, that the children had no idea of acting
together. In order, therefore, to gain this object, it will be found necessary to have recourse
to what we call manual lessons, which consist in the children holding up their hands all at
one time, and putting them down in the same manner; throwing the right or the left foot out;
putting their hands together, or behind them; or rising from their seats all at one time; clapping
hands, which is a very good exercise; holding up their hands and twirling the fingers; holding
up the forefinger and bringing it down on the palm, in time to some tune; imitating the action
of sawing wood, and the sound produced by the action of the saw; doing this both ways, as it
is done in the saw-pit, with both hands, and by the carpenter with the right; imitating the
cobbler mending shoes, the carpenter plaining wood, the tailor sewing, and any other trade
which is familiar and pleasing to children.

This we do in the first instance, because it is calculated to please the infants, and is one
grand step towards order. After the first day or two, the children will begin to act together,
and to know each other; but until this is the case, they will be frequently peevish, and want
to go home; any method, therefore, that can be taken at first to gratify them, should be adopted;
for unless this can be done, you may be sure they will cry. Having proceeded thus far, we have
then to class them according to their capacity and age, and according as they shew an aptitude
in obeying your several commands. Those who obey them with the greatest readiness may be classed
together.

I have found it difficult, at all times, to keep up the attention of infants, without giving
them something to do; so that when they are saying the tables in arithmetic, we always cause
them to move either their hands or feet, and sometimes to march round the school. The best
way we have yet discovered is the putting their hands one on the other every time they speak
a sentence. If they are marching they may count one, two, three, four, five, six, &c.

Having classed them, and found that each child knows its own place in the school, you may select
one of the cleverest of each class for a monitor. Some of the children will learn many of the
tables sooner than the others; in this case, the teacher may avail himself of their assistance,
by causing each child to repeat what he knows in an audible manner, the other children repeating
after him, and performing the same evolutions that he does; and by this means the rest will
soon learn. Then the master may go on with something else, taking care to obtain as much assistance
from the children as he can, for he will find that unless he does so, he will injure his lungs,
and render himself unfit to keep up their attention, and to carry on the business of the school.

When the children have learned to repeat several of the tables, and the monitors to excite
their several classes, and keep them in tolerable order, they may go on with the other parts
of the plan, such as the spelling and reading, picture lessons, &c., which will presently be
described. But care must be taken that in the beginning too much be not attempted. The first
week may be spent in getting them in order, without thinking of anything else; and I should
advise that not more than sixty children be then admitted, that they may be reduced to order,
in some measure, before any more are received, as all that come after will quickly imitate
them. I should, moreover, advise visitors not to come for some time after a school is opened,
for several reasons; first, because the children must be allowed time to learn, and there will
be nothing worth seeing; secondly, they take off the children's attention, and interfere with
the master: and, lastly, they may go away dissatisfied, and thereby injure the cause which
they intend to promote.

In teaching infants to sing, I have found it the best way to sing the psalm or hymn several
times in the hearing of the children, without their attempting to do so until they have some
idea of the tune; because, if all the children are allowed to attempt, and none of them know
it, it prevents those who really wish to learn from catching the sounds. Nothing, however,
can be more ridiculous or absurd than the attempts at singing I have heard in some schools.
And here, I would caution teachers against too much singing; and also against introducing it
at improper times. Singing takes much out of the teacher, which will soon be felt in the chest,
and cause pain and weakness there; and, if persevered in, premature death; and with women much
sooner than men. This is another reason why one of each sex should be employed in the work.
Singing is an exhilarating and exciting lesson; the children always like it: but even they
are injured by the injudicious management of it, and by having too much of it each day; or
the having two or even three exciting lessons at the same time. For example: I have seen children
singing, marching, and clapping hands at the same time; and they are prompted and led by the
teachers to do so. Here are three exciting lessons together, which ought to be separate: the
result is, a waste of energy and strength, on the part of teacher and children, which is sometimes
fatal to both. The exciting lessons were intended to be judiciously blended with the drier,
yet necessary, studies. If the latter are neglected, and the former only retained, no greater
perversion of the plans could occur, and a more fatal error could not be committed.

You must not expect order until your little officers are well drilled, which may be done by
collecting them together after the other children are gone, and instructing them in what they
are to do. Every monitor should know his work, and when you have taught him this, you must
require it to be done. To get good order, you must make every monitor answerable for the conduct
of his class. It is astonishing how some of the little fellows will strut about, big with the
importance of office. And here I must remark, it will require some caution to prevent them
from taking too much upon themselves; so prone are we, even in our earliest years, to abuse
the possession of power.

The way by which we teach the children hymns, is to let one child stand in a place where he
may be seen by the rest, with the book in his hand; he then reads one line, and stops until
all the children in the school have repeated it, which they do simultaneously; he then repeats
another, and so on, successively, until the hymn is finished. This method is adopted with every
thing that is to be committed to memory, so that every child in the school has an equal chance
of learning.

I have mentioned that the children should be classed: in order to facilitate this, there should
be a board fastened to the wall perpendicularly, the same width as the seats, every fifteen
feet, all round the school; this will separate one class from another, and be the cause of
the children knowing their class the sooner. Make every child hang his hat over where he sits,
in his own class, as this will save much trouble. "Have a place for every thing, and every
thing in its place." This will bring the children into habits of order. Never do any thing
for a child that he is able to do for himself; but teach him to put his own hat and coat on,
and hang them up again when he comes to school. Teach every child to help himself as soon as
possible. If one falls down, and you know that he is able to get up himself, never lift him
up; if you do, he will always lie till you can give him your aid. Have a slate, or a piece
of paper, properly ruled, hanging over every class; let every child's name that is in the class
be written on it, with the name of the monitor; teach the monitor the names as soon as you
can, and then he will tell you who is absent. Have a semicircle before every lesson, and make
the children keep their toes to the mark; brass nails driven in the floor are the best, or
flat brass or iron let into the floor. When a monitor is asking the children questions, let
him place his stool in the centre of the semicircle, and the children stand around him. Let
the monitors ask what questions they please, they will soon get fond of the process, and their
pupils will soon be equally fond of answering them. Suppose the monitor ask. What do I sit
on? Where are your toes? What do you stand on? What is before you? What behind you? Let the
monitors be instructed in giving simple object lessons on any familiar substance, such as a
piece of wood, of stone, of iron, of paper, of bone, of linen, &c. Let them question their
class as to the qualities first, and then the various uses to which the object is applied.
These lessons will be of incalculable benefit to the children, and give them an early desire
to inquire into the nature, qualities, and uses of every natural object they come into contact
with. We will suppose the monitor holds in his hand a piece of leather; he first asks, "What
is this?" The children will simultaneously exclaim, "A piece of leather." This being answered,
he will proceed to the qualities, and will have either from his class, or by his own help,
the following answers: "It is dry, it is smooth, it is hard, it is tough, it is pliable, it
is opaque," &c. He will then question them as to its uses, and will ask, "What is made from
leather?" A. Boots and shoes. Q. What use is it of else? A. Books are bound with it; and so
on through all its uses. He will then ask them how leather is made, and give them information
which he has himself previously received from the teacher as to the mode of tanning leather,
and the various processes which it goes through. Indeed, there is no end to the varied information
which children may thus receive from simple natural objects. At first they will have no idea
of this mode of exercising the thinking powers. But the teacher must encourage them in it,
and they will very speedily get fond of it, and be able to give an answer immediately. It is
very pleasing to witness this. I have been much delighted at the questions put, and still more
so at the answers given. Assemble all the very small children together as soon as you can:
the first day or two they will want to sit with their brothers or sisters, who are a little
older than themselves. But the sooner you can separate them the better, as the elder children
frequently plague the younger ones; and I have always found that the youngest ones are the
happiest by themselves.

In all cases let teachers be careful to avoid the "parrot system," and to remember that while
it is necessary to infuse a certain amount of information into the child's mind, it can only
be made its own by drawing it back again and getting its own ideas upon it--this is called
development, which is a thing universally disregarded in almost every school I have seen; and
it is a general complaint made by almost every modern writer on education; and many have objected
to the infant system on this account, because the teachers of it were not acquainted with its
end and essence. The true infant system is a system of development; no other system can be
of lasting benefit to the country in general, nor to the pupils in particular; the genuine
infant system is not subject to the fundamental errors so much complained of; it has been invented
for the purpose of operating upon all the faculties, and the machine must not be condemned
merely because the teachers do not know how to work it; but every committee, and each individual
in a committee, appear to lose sight of these principles, in order to try how much originality
may be displayed, and thus utility is sacrificed to novelty; thus we may find as many infant
systems as there are days in the year; and I have been made chargeable by certain writers for
the errors of others; but these writers have not condescended to examine into the merits of
the system for which I have been so many years an advocate.

But enough of this: we will now suppose that the little flock are brought by thus time into
something like order; we are next to consider the means of securing other objects. Although
the following rules for this purpose are given, it must not be supposed, that they are presented
as a model not to be departed from. If they can be improved so much the better, but some such
will be found indispensable.

       *       *       *       *       *

RULES

To be observed by the Parents of Children admitted into the ---- Infant School.

1.

Parents are to send their children clean washed, with their hair cut short and combed, and
their clothes well mended, by half-past eight o'clock in the morning, to remain till twelve.

2.

If any child be later in attendance than nine o'clock in the morning, that child must be sent
back until the afternoon; and in case of being later than two in the afternoon, it will be
sent back for the day.

3.

Parents may send their children's dinners with them in the morning, so that the children may
be taken care of the whole day, to enable the mother to go out to work. This can only be done
where the teachers reside on the premises.

4.

If a child be absent for a length of time, without a notice being sent to the master or mistress,
assigning a satisfactory reason for the absence, such child will not be permitted to return
again to the school.

Saturday is a holyday.[A]

[Footnote A: In Ireland the schools do not commence business till ten in the morning, and the
children remain till three, and do not go home in the interval. In Scotland the rules are nearly
similar.]

*** It is earnestly hoped that parents will see their own interest, as well as that of their
children, in strictly observing these rules; and they are exhorted to submit to their children
being governed by the master and mistress; to give them good instruction and advice; to accustom
them to family prayer; but particularly to see that they repeat the Lord's prayer, when they
rise in the morning, and when they retire to rest, and assist in their learning the commandments;
and to set before them a good example; for in so doing, they may humbly hope that the blessing
of Almighty God will rest upon them and their families; for we are assured in the holy Scriptures,
that if we train up a child in the way he should go, when he is old he will not depart from
it, Prov. xxii. 6. Therefore parents may be instrumental in the promotion of the welfare of
their children in this life, and of their eternal happiness in the world to come.

       *       *       *       *       *

On each of these rules I will make a few remarks.

First rule. Some parents are so habitually dirty, that they would not wash their children from
one week's end to another, unless required so to do; and if it be done for them, they will
not be so thankful as when compelled to do it themselves. This I have found from experience.

Second rule. This has its advantages; for it would not be right to punish the children when
the fault rests with their parents; consequently, by sending them home, the real authors of
the evil are punished. Many parents have told me, that when their children were at home, they
employed themselves in singing the alphabet, counting, patting their hands, &c. &c.; that it
was impossible to keep an infant asleep, that they were glad to get them out of the way, and
that they would take care that they should not be late again.

But there is no rule without an exception. I have found that this has its disadvantages; for
some of the elder children, when they wanted a half-holiday, would take care to be late, in
order to find the door shut, although they were sent in proper time by their parents; this,
when detected, subjects them to a pat on the hand, which is the only corporeal punishment we
have. If this rule were not strictly enforced, the children would be coming at all hours of
the day, which would put the school into such disorder, that we should never know when all
the children had said their lessons.

Third rule. This is of great service to those parents who go out to work; for by sending their
children's dinners with them, they are enabled to attend to their employment in comfort, and
the children, when properly disciplined, will be no additional trouble to the teacher, for
they will play about the play-ground, while he takes his dinner, without doing any mischief.

Fourth rule. Many persons will keep their children away for a month or two when nothing is
the matter with them, consequently the children will lose almost all they have learned at school.
Besides this, children are kept out, who perhaps would attend regularly, and we should never
know how many children were in the establishment. If, therefore, a parent does not attend to
this rule, the child's name is struck off the book.

On the admission of every child, the parents should be supplied with a copy of the preceding
rules, as this will prevent them from pleading any excuse; it should be fastened on pasteboard,
otherwise they will double it up and put it into their pockets, and forget all about it; but
being on pasteboard, they may hang it up in their dwellings. The short exhortation that follows,
it is hoped, may have its use, by reminding the parents of their duty to co-operate with those
persons who have the welfare both of themselves and their children at heart. The reasons for
the holiday of Saturday are, first, that the teacher requires a rest, the infant system being
so laborious. Second, that the school-room requires to be thoroughly cleaned; and, thirdly,
that many of the mothers are obliged to wash the children's clothes on a Saturday because they
have not a sufficient change, and if they do not have the Saturday, they will break the Sabbath
by washing them on Sunday.

I shall next speak of the daily routine of instruction.

If we would be successful in our labours, we most ask for help,--we must solicit aid from that
Being who never yet denied it when sincerely and fervently implored. A minister who desires
to instruct his flock with effect, never fails to commence his work with supplication; and
certainly every teacher must ask for help, and instruct his pupils to do so too, if he really
wish to be successful. If the wisest and best of men ask assistance from God to teach their
fellow-men, and feel and know it to be necessary so to do, who would not ask assistance to
instruct infants?

  "To lead them into virtue's path,
  And up to truth divine."

If we had only to educate the head, prayer might be less necessary. But the promoters of infant
schools want to affect the heart; to operate upon the will and the conscience, as well as on
the understanding; to make good men rather than learned men--men of wisdom, rather than men
of knowledge: and he who has this work to accomplish, should remember the Saviour's declaration,
"Without me ye can do nothing." Whilst therefore I would avoid too frequent repetition of the
divine names in tire presence of the children, and never fail to let them know the difference
between talking religion and doing religion, and in every case avoid the very appearance of
the form without the essence, I would in such case, avoid long prayers, and take care that
what was said in their presence should be short, and to the point, keeping in mind the scripture
maxim, to avoid long repetitions as the heathen do, who think they shall be heard for their
much speaking; and little children cannot have the simple truths of the Word pourtrayed to
them in too simple a manner.

To use prayers with little children composed of hard words taken from scholastic theology,
is contrary to common sense. How is it possible that they can either understand or feel them?
To utter prayer before them in dull and melancholy tones, and with grimaces of countenance,
is calculated to give a false and gloomy impression of religion, and has often done so. I have
known little children alarmed and frightened at such things; for sounds and appearances speak
more strongly to them than words.--Christ said of the Pharisees, "they disfigure their faces."
Our Saviour's direction is, after this manner, pray ye--"Our Father," thus directing us to
draw near to the Most High God as a heavenly father, rich in mercy to all them that call upon
him. Cowper never penned a truer line than this;

  "True piety is cheerful as the day;"

and such an impression of it should ever be given to the young. The best prayer of a master
for his children, is the perpetual and strong desire of his heart for God's blessing upon them,
which, when genuine and sincere, will without doubt be recorded on high, and will also urge
him on to a faithful and unceasing discharge of his duties towards them. To possess this is
indeed to "pray without ceasing," and will prevent an unnecessary multiplication of "long prayers,"
"vain repetitions," and "much speaking."

But to proceed. The children being assembled, should be desired to stand up, and immediately
afterwards to kneel down, all close to their seats, and as silently as possible: those who
are not strong enough to kneel, may be allowed to sit down. This being done, a child is to
be placed in the centre of the school, and to repeat the following prayer:--

"O God, our heavenly Father, thou art good to us: we would serve thee; we have sinned and done
wrong many times. Jesus Christ died on the cross for us. Forgive our sins for Jesus' sake;
may the Holy Spirit change our hearts, and make us to love God; help us to-day to be good children
and to do what is right. Keep us from wicked thoughts and bad tempers; make us try to learn
all that we are taught; keep us in health all the day. We would always think of God, and when
we die may we go to heaven. God bless our fathers and mothers, and sisters and brothers, and
our teachers, and make us obedient and kind, for Jesus Christ's sake. Amen."

Perhaps it would be better under all the circumstances, to use a simple prayer out of the Book
of Common Prayer.

The children afterwards repeat the Lord's prayer, and then sing a hymn; for instance, the following:

  When first the morning light we see,
    And from our beds arise,
  We to our God should thankful be,
    Who every want supplies.

  'Twas God who made the brilliant sun,
    That gives all day its light;
  And it was God who made the moon
    And stars, which shine at night.

  The fish that in the water swim,
    The beasts upon the land,
  Were all created first by Him,
    And shew His mighty hand.

  The food we eat, the clothes we wear,
    'Tis God alone can give;
  And only by His love and care,
    Can little children live.

  Then let us ever caution take,
    His holy laws to keep;
  And praise him from the time we wake,
    Until again we sleep.

Immediately after this they proceed to their lessons; which are fixed to what are called lesson-posts.
To each of these posts there is a monitor, who is provided with a piece of cane for a pointer.
This post is placed opposite to his class; and every class has one, up to which the monitor
brings the children three or four at a time, according to the number he has in his class. We
have fourteen classes, and sometimes more, which are regularly numbered, so that we have one
hundred children moving and saying their lessons at one time. When these are gone through,
the children are supplied with pictures, which they put on the post, the same as the spelling
and reading lessons, but say them in a different manner. We find that if a class always goes
through its lessons at one post, it soon loses its attraction; and consequently, although we
cannot change them from post to post in the spelling and reading lessons, because it would
be useless to put a child to a reading post that did not know its letters, yet we can do so
in the picture lessons, as the children are all alike in learning the objects. One child can
learn an object as quick as another, so that we may have many children that can tell the name
of different subjects, and even the names of all the geometrical figures, who do not know all
the letters in the alphabet; and I have had children, whom one might think were complete blockheads,
on account of their not being able to learn the alphabet so quickly as some of the other children,
and yet those very children would learn things which appeared to me ten times more difficult.
This proves the necessity of variety, and how difficult it is to legislate for children. Instead,
therefore, of the children standing opposite their own post, they go round from one to another,
repeating whatever they find at each post, until they have been all round the school. For instance,
at No. 1 post there may be the following objects; the horse, the ass, the zebra, the cow, the
sheep, the goat, the springing antelope, the cameleopard, the camel, the wild boar, the rhinoceros,
the elephant, the hippopotamus, the lion, the tiger, the leopard, the civet, the weazel, the
great white bear, the hyena, the fox, the greenland dog, the hare, the mole, the squirrel,
the kangaroo, the porcupine, and the racoon. Before commencing these lessons, two boys are
selected by the master, who perhaps are not monitors. These two boys bring the children up
to a chalk line that is made near No. 1 post, eight at a time; one of the boys gets eight children
standing up ready, always beginning at one end of the school, and takes them to this chalk
line, whilst the other boy takes them to No. 1 post, and delivers them up to the charge of
No. 1 monitor. No. 1 monitor then points to the different animals with a pointer, until the
name of every one that is on his plate has been repeated; this done, he delivers them to No.
2 monitor, who has a different picture at his post; perhaps the following: the fishmonger,
mason, hatter, cooper, butcher, blacksmith, fruiterer, distiller, grocer, turner, carpenter,
tallow-chandler, milliner, dyer, druggist, wheelwright, shoemaker, printer, coach-maker, bookseller,
bricklayer, linen-draper, cabinet-maker, brewer, painter, bookbinder. This done, No. 2 monitor
delivers them over to No. 3 monitor, who may have a representation of the following African
costumes: viz. Egyptian Bey, Ashantee, Algerine, Copts woman, Mameluke, native of Morocco,
Tibboo woman, Egyptian woman, Fellah, Bedouin Arab, Turkish foot soldier, Maltese, Rosettan,
native of Cairo, Turkish gentleman, Bosjesman, native of Coronna, native of Namacqua, Caffree,
native of Tamaha, native of Ebo. Having repeated these, No. 3 monitor hands them over to No.
4, who perhaps has an engraved clock face, with hands composed of two pieces of wood, over
which paper in the shape of clock hands has been pasted; he gives the children a lesson from
this object, explains to them the difference between the minute and second-hand, shews them
their uses, and points out the dots which mark the minutes, and the figures which divide it
into hours, makes them count the seconds, and soon tell the hour. No. 4 then gives the class
to No. 5 monitor, who has at his post a representation of the mariner's compass; he explains
its uses, shews them the cardinal points, tells them how it was discovered, and then he will
move the hands around, beginning at the north, and making the children repeat as he moves the
hands, north, north-north-east, north-east, east-north-east, east, east-south-east, south-east,
south-south-east, south, south-south west, south-west, west-south-west, west, west-north-west,
north-west, north-north-west, north. The degrees, &c., may be considered as going too far for
infants; we therefore reserve them until we treat of juvenile schools. We have not thought
it necessary to name all the points of the compass, but have confined ourselves to the principal
ones. No. 5 then hands the class to No. 6, who has on his post representations of the following
fishes, viz., whale, sword fish, white shark, sturgeon, skate, John Dorey, salmon, grayling,
porpoise, electrical eel, horned silure, pilot fish, mackerel, trout, red char, smelt, carp,
bream, road goldfish, pike, garfish, perch, sprat, chub, telescope carp, cod, whiting, turbot,
flounder, flying scorpion, sole, sea porcupine, sea cock, flying fish, trumpet fish, common
eel, turtle, lobster, crab, shrimp, star fish, streaked gilt head, remora, lump fish, holocenter,
torpedo. No. 6, then gives the class to No. 7; and as variety is the life and soul of the plan,
his post may be supplied with a botanic plate, containing representations of the following
flowers:--daffodil, fox-glove, hyacinth, bilberry, wild tulip, red poppy, plantain, winter
green, flower de luce, common daisy, crab-tree blossom, cowslip, primrose, lords and ladies,
pellitory of the wall, mallow, lily of the valley, bramble, strawberry, flowering rush, wood
spurge, wild germander, dandelion, arrow-head. No. 8 monitor has on his post a set of geometrical
figures, illustrated by the representation of objects either natural or artificial of the same
shape; thus a triangle illustrated by one side of a pyramid, a square, a pentagon, a hexagon,
a heptagon, an octagon, a nonagon, a decagon. No. 9 monitor has another set of geometrical
definitions on the same principle, as a perpendicular line, a horizontal line, an oblique line,
parallel lines, curved lines, diverging or converging lines, an obtuse angle, a circle. No.
10 a different set of geometrical shapes, viz. sociles-triangles, scolene-triangles, rectangle,
rhomb, rhomboid, trapezoid, trapeziums, ellipse or oval. Having arrived at No. 11, the class
find here the European costumes, viz. Englishman, Frenchman, Russian, Swiss, Italian, German,
Scotchman, Welchman, Irishman, Turk, Norwegian, Spaniard, Prussian, Icelander, Dutchman, Dane,
Swede, Portugese, Corsican, Saxon, Pole. No. 11 monitor delivers them to No. 12, and there
they may find pictures representing Negroes, Otaheiteans, Highlanders, American Indians, East
Indians, Laplanders, Greeks, Persians, Sandwich Islanders, Turks, English, Chinese, Dutch, Tartars.

To enter into a thorough explanation of the uses to which such lessons as these may be applied
would make a volume of itself, which at present I have no time to write[A]; but it may be necessary,
for the sake of teachers generally, to shew the uses to which a few of them may be applied,
and leave it to their own ingenuity to go on is a similar manner with the great variety of
lessons we have of this description, and which infants are quite competent to learn. Take the
European costumes as an example. When the children are thoroughly acquainted with each of the
representations, and can name them themselves, or if too young to name them, can point them
out if they are named by the teacher, they may then be told that the Englishman is born in
a country called England, and that London is the capital, and that capital means the greatest
town or city. Care must be taken that every thing is thoroughly explained, and that the pupils
understand the meaning of the terms used. You then windup this much by telling the pupils that
Englishman means the man, England the country, and London the chief city; that England is the
country they live in, if you are teaching English children. That Frenchman means a man that
lives in a country called France, which is separated from England by a part of the sea called
the English channel; that Paris is the chief town or capital. The teacher may here mention
some remarkable events connected with the history of France, and tell the children that France
and England have been often fighting against each other, but that they are now at peace, and
that we should be as kind and good to Frenchmen as to any other men, because God likes to see
all men live friendly with each other. The children are then told that Russian means a man
living and born in Russia; that Russia is a country where there is much ice and snow, and which
is very cold; that Petersburgh is the chief town, and that the people of Russia drive over
the ice and snow in sledges, which are carriages without wheels. That Swiss means an inhabitant
of a country named Switzerland, which is almost in the centre of Europe, and has no sea near
it; that it is a very pretty country, full of beautiful lakes and mountains; that a lake is
a very great pond of water, and that mountains are very high rocky places, and that the tops
of the mountains in Switzerland are always covered with snow; that the Swiss people are very
brave, and fought very hard for their freedom, that is, that no other people should be masters
over them; that the capital or chief town of Switzerland is Berne. When the teacher comes to
the Italian, he will say that he is an inhabitant of a country called Italy, which is a very
beautiful place; that Rome is the capital, and was once the greatest city in the world. In
speaking of the Scotchman, the teacher may tell the children that Scotland is not separated
from England by any sea, but the three countries called England, Scotland, and Wales, all form
one island, which is entirely surrounded by the sea; that the people who live in the north,
and cold parts of Scotland, are called Highlanders, and are very brave and hardy; that Edinburgh
is the capital. When the Welchman is under the children's notice, the teacher will tell them
that he lives in a pretty country called Wales, which is joined to England, that is, no sea
divides them, that the chief town is London, although London is in England and not Wales, because
Wales has been governed by the same king as England for many hundred years, and the eldest
son of the King of England is called Prince of Wales. When the teacher points out the Irishman,
he may tell his class that he lives in an island near England, separated or divided from it
by a part of the sea called the Irish Channel; that Dublin is the chief city, and that Ireland
is governed by the same queen as England is. Speaking of the German, he may say that he lives
in a country of which the chief town is Vienna. He may tell the children that the Turk lives
in a country called Turkey; that it is a very warm place, and its chief town is Constantinople;
that the Norwegian lives in a cold country called Norway, whose chief town is Christiana; that
the Spaniard lives in a country called Spain, the chief town of which is Madrid; that many
of the oranges we eat come from Spain; that the Prussian lives in a country called Prussia,
the chief town of which is Berlin; that the Icelander lives in a very cold place, called Iceland,
which is an island; that it is a place surrounded by water on every side; that there is a great
mountain in Iceland which is called a burning mountain, because flames of fire often come out
from the top of it. That the Dutchman lives in a country called Holland; that the people of
that country are remarkable for being very clean, and that most of the dolls which little English
girls play with, are made by children in Holland; that Amsterdam is the chief town or capital.
The children are told that the Dane lives in a country called Denmark. The teacher may state
that many hundred years back the Danes conquered England, but that a brave English king, called
Alfred, drove them all away again; that Copenhagen is the capital or chief town; that the Swede
lives in a country called Sweden, and that Stockholm is the chief town; that the Portuguese
live in a country called Portugal, the capital of which is Lisbon; that the Corsican lives
in an island called Corsica, the capital of which is Bastia; that the Saxon lives in a country
called Saxony, the chief town of which is Dresden. In telling the children that the Pole lives
in a country called Poland, the chief town of which was Warsaw, the teacher should explain
to them that Poland has been conquered by the Russians, and taken from the Poles, and shew
how unjust this was of the Russians, and also how the Poles fought very bravely to defend their
country, but that the Russians being stronger, and having larger armies, they were at last
overcome.

[Footnote A: I have since written a volume for juvenile schools; where the principles are carried
out. This can be had of the publisher.]

Having in this manner told the children as simply as possible, a little about each country,
the teacher should then tell the principal rivers; thus: The principal rivers of England are,
the Thames, the Severn, the Trent, the Mersey. London, the capital of England, is is built
on the banks of the River Thames; and ships from all parts of the world sail up this river,
to bring us various things which we could not get without sending to other countries for them;
such as tea and coffee and sugar. The principal rivers of France are, the Seine and the Rhone;
the Seine is the river on which the capital of France, Paris, is built. The principal rivers
of Russia are, the Wolga, the Don, the Nieper, the Dwina, and the Vistula. The Wolga is a very
great river, being three thousand miles long. The Rhine, which is one of the largest rivers
in Europe, rises in Switzerland. The principal rivers of Italy are, the Po, the Arno, and the
Tiber; the chief town of Italy, Rome, is built on the banks of the Tiber. Rome was once the
greatest city in the world. The principal rivers of Germany are, the Danube, the Rhine, and
the Elbe; of Scotland, the Clyde and Tweed; of Ireland, the Shannon, Barrow, Boyne, Suire,
and Nore. The capital of Ireland, Dublin, is built on a small river called the Liffey. The
principal rivers of Turkey are, the Danube and the Don; of Spain, the Guidalquiver; of Portugal,
the Tagus, on which the chief town, Lisbon, is built; and of Saxony, the Iser. In the same
manner the children may receive instruction fitted for their tender understanding, concerning
the other parts of the globe, always keeping in mind that, unless they are made to comprehend
thoroughly what is given to them, it is quite useless to attempt to give them the lessons at
all. When giving the lessons on African costumes, the teacher should explain in the simplest
manner, that the Egyptian Bey is the chief governor of a country in Africa called Egypt; that
Africa is one of the four great parts into which our earth is divided; that the Nile is a great
river flowing through Egypt, which, at certain times of the year, overflows its banks, and
that this fertilizes the ground, and causes the corn to grow, which, but for this, would be
withered with the sun, because but very little rain ever falls in Egypt; that the cause of
the Nile overflowing its banks is, the great rains which fall in the countries from whence
the Nile flows: that the Ashantee is an inhabitant of another country of Africa, where the
people are very ignorant, and do not know as much as the little children of an infant school:
that the Algerine lives in a part of Africa called Algiers: the people there are very wicked
and cruel, and used at one time to take the ships of every other country that they met on the
seas, and make slaves of the people they found in them; but they cannot do so now, because
the French have conquered them, and taken all their ships from them: that the Bedouin Arabs
are people who rove about from place to place, amongst the great sandy deserts of Africa, and
rob travellers who are passing over those deserts: the teacher should explain that these deserts
are very large places, covered with sand, and the sun is so hot that no tree or shrub, or grass,
will grow there, and there is no water to be had, so that travellers carry water in leathern
bottles on the backs of camels; that camels are large animals, much larger than a horse, which
are very useful in those warm countries, because they can carry very heavy loads on their backs,
and go a great time without water. The Copts woman should be pointed out to the children, and
notice should be taken of the large veil before her face. The Mameluke should be pointed out
as belonging to a fierce tribe of soldiers. When speaking of the natives of Morocco, it should
be mentioned that the Moors at one time had possession of Spain; that the Maltese is a native
of an island called Malta; that Cairo (a picture of a native of which is in the lesson) is
the chief city of Egypt. That the Bosjesman, native of Coronna, native of Namacqua, Caffree,
native of Tamaka and of Ebo, belong to the savage nations of Africa, of which but little is
known, who are of a black colour, and go with very little clothes on them, because the country
is so warm.

From the lesson supposed to be at No. 12 lesson-post, a good deal of information may be given.
The teacher may be thus supposed to address the children, pointing to each picture, as he describes
it.

Little children, this is a picture of negroes: they live in Africa, but are often stolen from
their own country to be made slaves of. Africa is a very hot part of the world, and the poor
negroes are black, and have short black woolly hair, something like the hair on a black sheep;
but we must not laugh at them for this; it was God who made them as well as he made you; and
those poor negroes are very mild and quiet people, and like to amuse themselves by singing
and dancing. You see the negroes in this picture; they are carrying a black lady in a kind
of basket, called a palanquin: a pole goes through this, and they hold it on their shoulders.
The next picture represents some of the people who live in a country called Otaheite; they
are strong, stout people, and very mild and friendly. They are not black like the negroes;
their complexion is of a pale brown, with black eyes and very handsome white teeth. The next
picture represents Scotch Highlanders: they live in the cold parts of Scotland; they are very
strong and healthy, and able to bear cold and hanger very well. They are fond of playing on
the bagpipes. This is a picture of American Indians: they live in America, and are of a reddish
colour; they build their huts in the thickest forests, as far from the white men as they can.
The next is a picture of East Indians: their country is in the warmest part of Asia, and from
it comes a great many beautiful things, such as ladies wear for shawls and dresses; there are
a great many people in the East Indies, and twenty-five millions are subject to the Queen of
England.

The Laplanders live in a very cold country, called Lapland, in which the ground is covered
with snow all the year round; they are very happy notwithstanding, for God gives every people
means to be happy, if they are good and love him; they have nice little huts to live in, and
sledges to travel with, which are drawn by rein-deer--we will read about the rein-deer by and
by. The Laplanders are kind to strangers, and are very brave, although they are the smallest
people in the world.

This is a picture of Greeks: they were once a very great and powerful people, but afterwards
the Turks conquered them; they have now, however, a king of their own.

The Persians, of whom this is a picture, live in a country of Asia called Persia, from whence
the most beautiful silks, carpets, leather, gold and silver lace, and pearls, are brought.
The Persian women are very handsome, and wear the most beautiful clothes of any women in the
world--we should not like them the better for this, for handsome faces and fine clothes will
not make people good or happy, unless they try to be so themselves.

This is a picture of the natives of the Sandwich islands: they are a very friendly people,
and live together without fighting or quarrelling; they make mats and canoes, and the women
make cloth.

The Turks (this is a picture of some of them) are very fine handsome people; they wear very
long beards; and they shave their heads and wear white turbans instead of hair; they are very
fond of drinking coffee and smoking from great long pipes.

The English are represented in this picture: you are English children--England is a very great
country, and the Queen of England has many ships in every part of the world; and a great many
places, many thousand miles away, belong to England.

This picture represents the Swiss: they are a very brave, honest, good people, and their country
is very beautiful; a great many clocks and watches are made in Switzerland.

This is a picture of the Chinese: they wear very curious dresses; and the ladies in China squeeze
their feet very much, in order to make them small, which they think a great beauty. Tea comes
from China, and is the leaf of a small plant.

This picture represents the Dutch: they are a very clean and industrious people, and the little
children there are never idle.

The last picture represents the Tartars: they live in Asia, and wander about without any fixed
dwelling, not staying in one place longer than while it gives them food for themselves and
their horses, of which they have a great many. Horses are wild in Tartary.

The reader will at once perceive what a feast is afforded to the young mind in these object
lessons; the objects are accurately copied from nature, and the costumes from the best sources,
so that the infant mind is expanded by viewing a proper representation of the real thing through
the fit organ, the eye. It is astonishing what infants will learn through the sense of seeing,
and it is remarkable that our systems of education for young and old, should not have been
founded on a knowledge of the high importance of this medium for communication and information;
the youngest child may learn to distinguish one object from another to an endless variety,
and I could produce children who could point me out a thousand objects, if I called them by
their proper names, who perhaps could not themselves name twenty of the objects out of the
thousand; by this it will be seen we first give them the object, and language itself follows
in due course.

Whenever a clear idea or notion is given to the mind by a picture or object, it is then easy
to impart the information that is naturally connected with it; and this will then be most strongly
retained, according to the law of association, which is one of the most important principles
to be kept in view in imparting instruction to both young and old. Lead on FROM something known
TO something unknown, is a golden rule,--a most valuable axiom that all teachers should ever
bear constantly in mind. What important lessons may be given in a field, wood, or forest! How
much better is the thing itself for a lesson, than the representation of it! And what a class
of teachers are wanted for this work? Yet sure I am that in due time the Great God will raise
such up from amongst his people, to the glory of His name, and the benefit of succeeding generations.
May greater minds than the humble writer of this, be called to work in this blessed vineyard
for the good of the species, and for the diminution of crime; and, oh! may they be able to
dive into the recesses of the wonderful works of God, to grapple with the difficulties therein
found, and bring to light some of the hidden mysteries, for the instruction of mankind!

When this book was first written, thirty-two years ago, some of the ideas were universally
scouted, yet I have lived to see the day that the very men who sneered at the views first made
known in this book, adopt precisely the same principles, and even go much further that I ever
intended, or even thought suitable for infant minds, and quietly puff this off as a new discovery
in infant training; so much the better, portions of the public will hear them, and they would
not listen to me; and if the end is answered, it is of little consequence through what means
that end is gained. It is satisfactory to know that the principles first developed in the infant
plan are found equally applicable to older children, and I have had the pleasure of seeing
those principles carried out in many schools throughout the country, too numerous to mention
individually.

It will be seen from what has been said that the plan of the children marching from one post
to the other, is the very thing for infants, as exercising and developing their locomotive
powers, a thing exceedingly desirable for young children. The great error of the old infant
system, or in other words, the dame-school plan, was the keeping the pupils rivetted to their
seats; here they are marching from one place to another, and get ting food for every sense.
Take as another example the picture of the trades; the monitor says to his little pupils as
they come up. What does a fishmonger sell, the answer is, fishes of many sorts, such as salmon,
cod, herring, and mackerel. Q. What does a mason do? A. Cut stones into their proper shapes,
polish some sorts, and cut ornaments on others. Q. What does a hatter sell? A. Hats, for men,
women, and little children. Q. What does a cooper do? A. Mend casks and make them. Q. What
does a butcher mean? A. One that sells beef, mutton, pork, &c. Q. What do they call butchers
in Scotland? A. Fleshers. Q. What does a blacksmith mean? A. One that makes different things
from iron, and sometimes shoes horses. Q. What does a fruiterer mean? A. A person that sells
all sorts of fruits, such as apples, pears, plums, cherries, gooseberries, strawberries, &c.
Q. What does a distiller mean? A. A man that makes rum, brandy, whiskey, and other liquors.
Q. What does a grocer mean? A. A man that sells tea, coffee, sugar, spices, and many other
things. Q. What does a carpenter mean? A. A man that cuts up wood, makes benches; it was a
carpenter made our gallery. Q. What does a turner mean? A. A man who makes snuff-boxes, bed-posts;
It was a turner who made the balls on our arithmeticon. Q. What does a tallow-chandler mean?
A. A man that buys and sells candles of different sorts. Q. What does milliner mean? A. A person
that makes ladies' caps, tippets, and things for little children. Q. What does a dyer mean?
A. A man that dyes cloths of different colours. Q. What does a druggist mean? A. One that sells
drugs of different kinds, such as nutgalls, alum, bark, &c. Q. What does wheelwright mean?
A. A man that makes carts, wheelbarrows, &c. Q. What does a shoe-maker do? A. Makes shoes for
men and women and little boys and girls. Q. What does a printer do? A. Print lessons for little
children to read; newspapers and books for men to read. Q. What does a coach-maker make? A.
Coaches, gigs, omnibuses, cabs, and things of that sort. Q. What does a bookseller do? A. Sells
books of different sorts, pictures, paper, sealing-wax, &c. Q. What does a bricklayer do? A.
Builds walls, the brick part of houses, &c. Q. What does a linen-draper do? A. Sells linen
to make shirts, printed calico to make frocks, and many other things of that kind. Q. What
does a cabinet-maker do? A. Makes tables, chairs, and presses, and other things to furnish
houses with. Q. What does a brewer do? A. Makes ale and porter. Q. What does a painter mean?
A. One who paints insides of houses, doors, window shutters, and such things. Q. What does
a bookbinder do? A. Puts covers on books.

These lessons being all supplied by me, more explanation in this place may be unnecessary,
but as a further guide to teachers of infant schools, I subjoin a synopsis of a week's course
of instruction which has been adopted in many schools.

       *       *       *       *       *

SYNOPSIS OF A WEEK'S INSTRUCTION.

TIME.--Mornings. School to assemble at nine o'clock, and to leave at twelve.

Afternoons. School to assemble at two o'clock, and to leave at four in winter, and five in summer.

MONDAY.

Morning. When assembled, to offer the appointed prayer, after which a hymn is to be sung; then
slates and pencils are to be delivered to the children; after which they are to proceed with
their letters and spelling. At half-past ten o'clock to play, and at eleven o'clock to assemble
in the gallery, and repeat the picture lessons on natural history after the monitor in the rostrum.

Afternoon. Begin with prayer and hymn as in the morning; picture lessons on Scripture history
to be repeated from the lesson-post, and to be questioned on them afterwards in the gallery.

TUESDAY.

Morning. Usual prayer and hymn. Letters and spelling from the lesson-posts. Play. Gallery;
repeat the addition and subtraction tables.

Afternoon. Prayer and hymn. Multiplication table; the monitor asking the question, and the
children answering. Reading lessons. Play. Gallery; numeration and spelling with brass figures
and letters.

WEDNESDAY.

Morning. Prayer and hymn. Letters and spelling. Play. Gallery; master to teach geometrical
figures and musical characters.

Afternoon. Prayer and hymn. Practice pence and shilling tables. Play. Gallery; master to give
lessons on arithmetic. Extempore teaching on men and things, &c. &c.

THURSDAY.

Morning. Prayer and hymn. Letters and spelling. Division, weights, measures, and time, from
the rostrum. Play. Gallery; same lessons as Monday morning.

Afternoon. Prayer and hymn. From the lesson-posts epitome of geometry and natural history.
Gallery; brass letters and figures. Extempore teaching on men and things, taking care that
all such teaching shall be illustrated by substances.

FRIDAY.

Morning. Prayer and hymn. Letters and spelling. Tables in arithmetic, at the master's discretion.
Play. Gallery; lessons on geography, maps, globes, &c.

Afternoon. Prayer and hymn. Scripture pictures on the lesson-posts, and questions on them in
the gallery.

SATURDAY.

Morning. Prayer and hymn. Letters and spelling. Tables of arithmetic from the rostrum. Play.
Gallery; lessons on the transposition frame, and on geometry from the brass instrument. Religious
instruction should have a prominent part in the business of every day, and especially so every
Saturday morning.

N.B. If visitors wish any particular lessons to be gone through, and the children appear disposed,
the master is not bound to adhere to the above rules, neither at any other time, if the children
appear particularly disinclined.

       *       *       *       *       *

There are a few other matters, on which, before concluding this chapter, I must speak, as claiming
the attention of infant school conductors. First attend to

