Their origin may, I think, be found in the Latin terms used in the ancient accounts of persons
{107} officially employed by the crown to express transactions somewhat similar to those for
which they appear to be now used. Persons conversant with those records must frequently have
met with cases where money advanced, paid on account, or as earnest, was described as "de prestito"
or "in prestitis." Ducange gives "præstare" and its derivatives as meaning "mutuo dare" with
but little variation; but I think that too limited a sense. The practice of describing a document
itself by the use of the material or operative parts expressing or defining the transaction
for which it was employed, is very common. In legal and documentary proceedings, it is indeed
the only one that is followed. Let D.V.S. run over and compare any of the well-known descriptions
of writs, as habeas corpus, mandamus, fi. fa.: or look into Cowell's Interpreter, or a law
dictionary, and he will see numerous cases where terms now known as the names of certain documents
are merely the operative parts of Latin formulæ. "Imprest" seems to be a slightly corrupted
translation of "in prestito;" that part of the instrument being thus made to give its name
to the whole. Of "debenture" I think there is little doubt that it may be similarly explained.
Those Record Offices which possess the ancient accounts and vouchers of officers of the royal
household contain numerous "debentures" of the thirteenth, but far more of the fourteenth,
century. In this case the initial is the chief operative word: those relating to the royal
wardrobe, commencing "Debentur in garderoba domini regis," being in fact merely memorandums
expressing or acknowledging that certain sums of money "are owing" for articles supplied for
the use of that department. It is well known that the royal exchequer was, at the time these
documents were executed, often in great straits; and it seems to me scarcely doubtful that
these early "debentures" were actually delivered over to tradesmen, &c., as security for the
amount due to them, and given in to be cancelled when the debts were discharged by the Exchequer
officers.

There is a remarkable feature about these ancient "debentures" which I may perhaps be permitted
to notice here, viz., the very beautiful seals of the officers of the royal household and wardrobe
which are impressed upon them. They are of the somewhat rare description known as "appliqué;"
and at a time when personal seals were at the highest state of artistic developement, those
few seals of the clerks of the household which have escaped injury (to which they are particularly
exposed) are unrivalled for their clearness of outline, design, delicacy, and beauty of execution.

Allowing for the changes produced by time, I think sufficient analogy may be found between
the ancient and modern uses of the words "imprest" and "debenture."

J. BT.

"Imprest" (Vol. ii., p. 40).--D.V.S. will find an illustration of the early application of
this word to advances made by the Treasury in the "Rotulus de Prestito" of 12 John, printed
by the Record Commission under the careful editorship of Mr. T. Duffus Hardy, whose preface
contains a clear definition of its object, and an account of other existing rolls of the same
character.

EDWARD FOSS.

Derivation of News.--P.C.S.S. has read with great interest the various observations on the
derivation of the word "News" which have appeared in the "NOTES AND QUERIES," and especially
those of the learned and ingenious Mr. Hickson.

P.C.S.S. would take the liberty of reminding Mr. H. of the following passage in the Tempest:--

                 "When that is gone,
  He shall drink nought but brine, for I'll not show him
  Where the quick freshes lie."

Surely, in this instance, the plural noun "freshes" is not formed from any such singular noun
as "fresh," but directly from the adjective, which latter does not seem to have been ever used
as a singular noun.

While on the subject of "News," P.C.S.S. finds in Pepys' Diary (vol. iii. p. 59.) another application
of the word, in the sense of a noun singular, which he does not remember to have seen noticed
by others.

    "Anon, the coach comes--in the meantime, there coming a news
    thither, with his horse to come over."

In other parts of the Diary, the word News-book is occasionally employed to signify what is
now termed a newspaper, or, more properly, a bulletin.

And again (at p. 51.):

    "I met this noon with Dr. Barnett, who told me, and I find in
    the News-book this week, that he posted upon the 'Change,'"
    &c. &c.

Much has been lately written in the "NOTES AND QUERIES" respecting the "Family of Love." A
sect of a similar name existed here in 1641, and a full and not very decent description of
their rites and orgies is to be found in a small pamphlet of that date, reprinted in the fourth
volume (8vo. ed.) of the Harleian Miscellany.

P.C.S.S. {108}

Origin of Adur (Vol. ii., p. 71.).--A, derived from the same root as Aqua and the French Eau,
is a frequent component of the names of rivers: "A-dur, A-run, A-von, A-mon," the adjunct being
supposed to express the individual characteristic of the stream. A-dur would then mean the
river of oaks, which its course from Horsham Forest through the Weald of Sussex, of which "oak
is the weed," would sufficiently justify. It is called in ancient geography Adurnus, and is
probably from the same root as the French Adour.

C.

The river Adur, which passes by Shoreham, is the same name as the Adour, a great river in the
Western Pyrenees.

This coincidence seems to show that it is neither a Basque word, nor a Saxon. Whether it is
a mere expansion of ydwr, the water, in Welch, I cannot pretend to say, but probably it includes
it.

We have the Douro in Spain; and the Doire, or Doria, in Piedmont. Pompadour is clearly derived
from the above French river, or some other of the same name.

C.B.

Meaning of Steyne (Vol. ii., P. 71.).--Steyne is no doubt stone, and may have reference to
the original name of Brighthelm-stone: but what the stone or "steyne" was, I do not conjecture;
but it lay or stood probably on that little flat valley now called the "Steyne." It is said
that, so late as the time of Elizabeth, the town was encompassed by a high and strong stone
wall; but that could have no influence on the name, which, whether derived from Bishop Brighthelm
or not, is assuredly of Saxon times. There is a small town not far distant called Steyning,
i.e. the meadow of the stone. In my early days, the name was invariably pronounced Brighthamstone.

C.

Sarum and Barum (Vol. ii., p. 21.).--As a conjecture, I would suggest the derivation of Sarum
may have been this. Salisbury was as frequently written Sarisbury. The contracted form of this
was Sap., the ordinary import of which is the termination of the Latin genitive plural rum.
Thus an imperfectly educated clerk would be apt to read Sarum instead of Sarisburia; and the
error would pass current, until one reading was accepted for right as much as the other. In
other instances we adopt the Law Latin or Law French of mediæval times; as the county of Oxon
for Oxfordshire, Salop for Shropshire, &c., and Durham is generally supposed to be French (Duresmm),
substituted for the Anglo-Saxon Dunholm, in Latin Dunelmum. I shall perhaps be adding a circumstance
of which few readers will be aware, in remarking that the Bishops of Durham, down to the present
day, take alternately the Latin and French signatures, Duresm and Dunelm.

J.G.N.

"Epigrams on the Universities" (Vol. ii., p. 88.).