These remarks dropped by the Colonel before debate opened. During its progress received support
from unexpected quarter. HARTINGTON, suddenly waking up from usual nap on Front Bench, wanted
to know when War Office is going to carry out recommendation of Royal Commission on re-organisation
of Naval and Military Departments? STANHOPE said everything turned upon vacancy in post of
Commander-in-Chief. When that berth empty, the machine would move. No chance of immediate vacancy;
the DOOK very comfortable where he is; not the sort of man to retire in face of enemy. The
only way to carry out scheme recommended by Commissioners after prolonged inquiry was to get
rid of the DOOK.

"I do trust," said STANHOPE, winking at the Strangers' Gallery, "that the public will not interfere
in this matter. They have had the Report of the Commission in their hands for months. They
have taken no notice of it, or any action upon it. I do hope, now their attention has been
called to the matter by my noble and Radical friend opposite, they will not get up a fuss and
insist that necessary and important reforms in the Army shall not be indefinitely postponed
in order that the DOOK may draw his salary and enjoy his position. If the great mass of public
opinion outside the Army plainly declared their wishes in that direction, we should have to
yield; but, as I said before," and once more the Secretary furtively dropped his left eyelid
as he looked up at the Strangers' Gallery, "I hope the public will not change their attitude
on this subject."

"That's all very well," said LAURIE, who had now entered the House. "But it seems to me that
when H.R.H. reads this curious speech, he'll be more inclined to fall in with our movement.
In my mind's eye, I can already see him on the tub in Hyde Park, haranguing the mob of Colonels
from under an umbrella."

Business done.--Army Estimates in Committee.

Tuesday.--Decidedly a Labour night, with Capital incidentally mentioned. First, OLD MORALITY
announces appointment of Royal Commission to inquire into relations between Capital and Labour.
His placid mind evidently disturbed by undesirable coincidence. On Saturday night, GRANDOLPH,
suddenly remembering he had constituents at West Paddington, took a penny Road Car, and paid
them visit. Delivered luminous speech on things in general. Recommended appointment of Royal
Commission on relations between Labour and Capital. To uninstructed mind looks uncommonly like
as if Ministers, reading this speech on Monday morning, had said to each other, "Halloa! here's
RANDOLPH in the field again. Says we must have Labour Commission; suppose we must."

Nothing of the kind happened. Cabinet Council met at noon on Saturday and decided upon Royal
Commission. GRANDOLPH didn't speak for some hours later. Odd that he should have hit on this
Commission business; just like his general awkwardness of interference. Must prevent all possibility
of mistake; so OLD MORALITY, in announcing Commission, innocently, but pointedly, stops by
the way to mention that Ministers had decided upon it "last Saturday."

Wish GRANDOLPH had been here; would like to have seen the twinkle in his eye when he heard
this little point made. But GRANDOLPH busy down by the Docks, picking up his outfit. Secret
of the sudden and surprising growth of the beard out now. GRANDOLPH off to the gold-diggings,
and beard usually worn there. Hardly knew him when I looked in the other day at Connaught Place;
trying on his new things; pair of rough unpolished boots coming over his knees; belt round
his waist holding up his trousers and conveniently suspending jackknife, tin pannikin, and
water-bottle. "For use on the voyage," he explains. Then a flannel shirt open at the neck;
a wide-awake cocked on one side of his head; and a pickaxe on his shoulder.

