I had a knot of cherry-coloured ribands, which she had given me out of her breast, and which
somehow I always wore upon me. I pulled these out of my bosom, and flung them in Captain Quin's
face, and rushed out with my little sword drawn, shrieking, 'She's a liar--she's a liar, Captain
Quin! Draw, sir, and defend yourself, if you are a man!' and with these words I leapt at the
monster, and collared him, while Nora made the air echo with her screams; at the sound of which
the other captain and Mysie hastened up.

Although I sprang up like a weed in my illness, and was now nearly attained to my full growth
of six feet, yet I was but a lath by the side of the enormous English captain, who had calves
and shoulders such as no chairman at Bath ever boasted. He turned very red, and then exceedingly
pale at my attack upon him, and slipped back and clutched at his sword--when Nora, in an agony
of terror, flung herself round him, screaming, 'Eugenio! Captain Quin, for Heaven's sake spare
the child--he is but an infant.'

'And ought to be whipped for his impudence,' said the Captain; 'but never fear, Miss Brady,
I shall not touch him; your FAVOURITE is safe from me.' So saying, he stooped down and picked
up the bunch of ribands which had fallen at Nora's feet, and handing it to her, said in a sarcastic
tone, 'When ladies make presents to gentlemen, it is time for OTHER gentlemen to retire.'

'Good heavens, Quin!' cried the girl; 'he is but a boy.'

'I am a man,' roared I, 'and will prove it.'

'And don't signify any more than my parrot or lap-dog. Mayn't I give a bit of riband to my
own cousin?'

'You are perfectly welcome, miss,' continued the Captain, 'as many yards as you like.'

'Monster!' exclaimed the dear girl; 'your father was a tailor, and you are always thinking
of the shop. But I'll have my revenge, I will! Reddy, will you see me insulted?'

'Indeed, Miss Nora,' says I, 'I intend to have his blood as sure as my name's Redmond.'

'I'll send for the usher to cane you, little boy,' said the Captain, regaining his self-possession;
'but as for you, miss, I have the honour to wish you a good-day.'

He took off his hat with much ceremony, made a low CONGE, and was just walking off, when Mick,
my cousin, came up, whose ear had likewise been caught by the scream.

'Hoity-toity! Jack Quin, what's the matter here?' says Mick; 'Nora in tears, Redmond's ghost
here with his sword drawn, and you making a bow?'

'I'll tell you what it is, Mr. Brady,' said the Englishman: 'I have had enough of Miss Nora,
here, and your Irish ways. I ain't used to 'em, sir.'

'Well, well! what is it?' said Mick good-humouredly (for he owed Quin a great deal of money
as it turned out); 'we'll make you used to our ways, or adopt English ones.'

'It's not the English way for ladies to have two lovers' (the 'Henglish way,' as the captain
called it), 'and so, Mr. Brady, I'll thank you to pay me the sum you owe me, and I'll resign
all claims to this young lady. If she has a fancy for schoolboys, let her take 'em, sir.'

'Pooh, pooh! Quin, you are joking,' said Mick.

'I never was more in earnest,' replied the other.

'By Heaven, then, look to yourself!' shouted Mick. 'Infamous seducer! infernal deceiver!--you
come and wind your toils round this suffering angel here--you win her heart and leave her--and
fancy her brother won't defend her? Draw this minute, you slave! and let me cut the wicked
heart out of your body!'

'This is regular assassination,' said Quin, starting back; 'there's two on 'em on me at once.
Fagan, you won't let 'em murder me?'

'Faith!' said Captain Fagan, who seemed mightily amused, 'you may settle your own quarrel,
Captain Quin;' and coming over to me, whispered, 'At him again, you little fellow.'

'As long as Mr. Quin withdraws his claim,' said I, 'I, of course, do not interfere.'

'I do, sir--I do,' said Mr. Quin, more and more flustered.

'Then defend yourself like a man, curse you!' cried Mick again. 'Mysie, lead this poor victim
away--Redmond and Fagan will see fair play between us.'

'Well now--I don't--give me time--I'm puzzled--I--I don't know which way to look.'

'Like the donkey betwixt the two bundles of hay,' said Mr. Fagan drily, 'and there's pretty
pickings on either side.'

CHAPTER II. I SHOW MYSELF TO BE A MAN OF SPIRIT

During this dispute, my cousin Nora did the only thing that a lady, under such circumstances,
could do, and fainted in due form. I was in hot altercation with Mick at the time, or I should
have, of course, flown to her assistance, but Captain Fagan (a dry sort of fellow this Fagan
was) prevented me, saying, 'I advise you to leave the young lady to herself, Master Redmond,
and be sure she will come to.' And so indeed, after a while, she did, which has shown me since
that Fagan knew the world pretty well, for many's the lady I've seen in after times recover
in a similar manner. Quin did not offer to help her, you may be sure, for, in the midst of
the diversion, caused by her screaming, the faithless bully stole away.

'Which of us is Captain Quin to engage?' said I to Mick; for it was my first affair, and I
was as proud of it as of a suit of laced velvet. 'Is it you or I, Cousin Mick, that is to have
the honour of chastising this insolent Englishman?' And I held out my hand as I spoke, for
my heart melted towards my cousin under the triumph of the moment.

But he rejected the proffered offer of friendship. 'You--you!' said he, in a towering passion;
'hang you for a meddling brat: your hand is in everybody's pie. What business had you to come
brawling and quarrelling here, with a gentleman who has fifteen hundred a year?'

'Oh,' gasped Nora, from the stone bench, 'I shall die: I know I shall. I shall never leave
this spot.'

'The Captain's not gone yet,' whispered Fagan; on which Nora, giving him an indignant look,
jumped up and walked towards the house.

'Meanwhile,' Mick continued, 'what business have you, you meddling rascal, to interfere with
a daughter of this house?'

'Rascal yourself!' roared I: 'call me another such name, Mick Brady, and I'll drive my hanger
into your weasand. Recollect, I stood to you when I was eleven years old. I'm your match now,
and, by Jove, provoke me, and I'll beat you like--like your younger brother always did.' That
was a home-cut, and I saw Mick turn blue with fury.

'This is a pretty way to recommend yourself to the family,' said Fagan, in a soothing tone.

'The girl's old enough to be his mother,' growled Mick.

'Old or not,' I replied: 'you listen to this, Mick Brady' (and I swore a tremendous oath, that
need not be put down here): 'the man that marries Nora Brady must first kill me--do you mind that?'

'Pooh, sir,' said Mick, turning away, 'kill you--flog you, you mean! I'll send for Nick the
huntsman to do it;' and so he went off.

Captain Fagan now came up, and taking me kindly by the hand, said I was a gallant lad, and
he liked my spirit. 'But what Brady says is true,' continued he; 'it's a hard thing to give
a lad counsel who is in such a far-gone state as you; but, believe me, I know the world, and
if you will but follow my advice, you won't regret having taken it. Nora Brady has not a penny;
you are not a whit richer. You are but fifteen, and she's four-and-twenty. In ten years, when
you're old enough to marry, she will be an old woman; and, my poor boy, don't you see--though
it's a hard matter to see--that she's a flirt, and does not care a pin for you or Quin either?'

But who in love (or in any other point, for the matter of that) listens to advice? I never
did, and I told Captain Fagan fairly, that Nora might love me or not as she liked, but that
Quin should fight me before he married her--that I swore.

'Faith,' says Fagan, 'I think you are a lad that's likely to keep your word;' and, looking
hard at me for a second or two, he walked away likewise, humming a tune: and I saw he looked
back at me as he went through the old gate out of the garden. When he was gone, and I was quite
alone, I flung myself down on the bench where Nora had made believe to faint, and had left
her handkerchief; and, taking it up, hid my face in it, and burst into such a passion of tears
as I would then have had nobody see for the world. The crumpled riband which I had flung at
Quin lay in the walk, and I sat there for hours, as wretched as any man in Ireland, I believe,
for the time being. But it's a changeable world! When we consider how great our sorrows SEEM,
and how small they ARE; how we think we shall die of grief, and how quickly we forget, I think
we ought to be ashamed of ourselves and our fickle-heartedness. For, after all, what business
has time to bring us consolation? I have not, perhaps, in the course of my multifarious adventures
and experience, hit upon the right woman; and have forgotten, after a little, every single
creature I adored; but I think, if I could but have lighted on the right one, I would have
loved her for EVER.

I must have sat for some hours bemoaning myself on the garden bench, for it was morning when
I came to Castle Brady, and the dinner-bell clanged as usual at three o'clock, which wakened
me up from my reverie. Presently I gathered up the handkerchief, and once more took the riband.
As I passed through the offices, I saw the Captain's saddle was still hanging up at the stable-door,
and saw his odious red-coated brute of a servant swaggering with the scullion-girls and kitchen-people.
'The Englishman's still there, Master Redmond,' said one of the maids to me (a sentimental
black-eyed girl, who waited on the young ladies). 'He's there in the parlour, with the sweetest
fillet of vale; go in, and don't let him browbeat you, Master Redmond.'

And in I went, and took my place at the bottom of the big table, as usual, and my friend the
butler speedily brought me a cover.

'Hallo, Reddy my boy!' said my uncle, 'up and well?--that's right.'

'He'd better be home with his mother,' growled my aunt.

'Don't mind her,' says Uncle Brady; 'it's the cold goose she ate at breakfast didn't agree
with her. Take a glass of spirits, Mrs. Brady, to Redmond's health.' It was evident he did
not know of what had happened; but Mick, who was at dinner too, and Ulick, and almost all the
girls, looked exceedingly black, and the Captain foolish; and Miss Nora, who was again by his
side, ready to cry. Captain Fagan sat smiling; and I looked on as cold as a stone. I thought
the dinner would choke me: but I was determined to put a good face on it, and when the cloth
was drawn, filled my glass with the rest; and we drank the King and the Church, as gentlemen
should. My uncle was in high good-humour, and especially always joking with Nora and the Captain.
It was, 'Nora, divide that merry-thought with the Captain! see who'll be married first.' 'Jack
Quin, my dear boy, never mind a clean glass for the claret, we're short of crystal at Castle
Brady; take Nora's and the wine will taste none the worse;' and so on. He was in the highest
glee,--I did not know why. Had there been a reconciliation between the faithless girl and her
lover since they had come into the house?

I learned the truth very soon. At the third toast, it was always the custom for the ladies
to withdraw; but my uncle stopped them this time, in spite of the remonstrances of Nora, who
said, 'Oh, pa! do let us go!' and said, 'No, Mrs. Brady and ladies, if you plaise; this is
a sort of toast that is drunk a great dale too seldom in my family, and you'll plaise to receive
it with all the honours. Here's CAPTAIN AND MRS. JOHN QUIN, and long life to them. Kiss her,
Jack, you rogue: for 'faith you've got a treasure!'

'He has already '----I screeched out, springing up.

'Hold your tongue, you fool--hold your tongue!' said big Ulick, who sat by me; but I wouldn't hear.

'He has already,' I screamed, 'been slapped in the face this morning, Captain John Quin; he's
already been called coward, Captain John Quin; and this is the way I'll drink his health. Here's
your health, Captain John Quin!' And I flung a glass of claret into his face. I don't know
how he looked after it, for the next moment I myself was under the table, tripped up by Ulick,
who hit me a violent cuff on the head as I went down; and I had hardly leisure to hear the
general screaming and skurrying that was taking place above me, being so fully occupied with
kicks, and thumps, and curses, with which Ulick was belabouring me. 'You fool!' roared he--'
you great blundering marplot--you silly beggarly brat' (a thump at each), 'hold your tongue!'
These blows from Ulick, of course, I did not care for, for he had always been my friend, and
had been in the habit of thrashing me all my life.

When I got up from under the table all the ladies were gone; and I had the satisfaction of
seeing the Captain's nose was bleeding, as mine was--HIS was cut across the bridge, and his
beauty spoiled for ever. Ulick shook himself, sat down quietly, filled a bumper, and pushed
the bottle to me. 'There, you young donkey,' said he, 'sup that; and let's hear no more of
your braying.'

'In Heaven's name, what does all the row mean?' says my uncle. 'Is the boy in the fever again?'

'It's all your fault,' said Mick sulkily: 'yours and those who brought him here.'

'Hold your noise, Mick!' says Ulick, turning on him; 'speak civil of my father and me, and
don't let me be called upon to teach you manners.'

'It IS your fault,' repeated Mick. 'What business has the vagabond here? If I had my will,
I'd have him flogged and turned out.'

'And so he should be,' said Captain Quin.

'You'd best not try it, Quin,' said Ulick, who was always my champion; and turning to his father,
'The fact is, sir, that the young monkey has fallen in love with Nora, and finding her and
the Captain mighty sweet in the garden to-day, he was for murdering Jack Quin.'

'Gad, he's beginning young,' said my uncle, quite good-humouredly. ''Faith, Fagan, that boy's
a Brady, every inch of him.'

'And I'll tell you what, Mr. B.,' cried Quin, bristling up: 'I've been insulted grossly in
this 'OUSE. I ain't at all satisfied with these here ways of going on. I'm an Englishman I
am, and a man of property; and I--I'--'If you're insulted, and not satisfied, remember there's
two of us, Quin,' said Ulick gruffly. On which the Captain fell to washing his nose in water,
and answered never a word.

'Mr. Quin,' said I, in the most dignified tone I could assume, 'may also have satisfaction
any time he pleases, by calling on Redmond Barry, Esquire, of Barryville.' At which speech
my uncle burst out a-laughing (as he did at everything); and in this laugh, Captain Fagan,
much to my mortification, joined. I turned rather smartly upon him, however, and bade him to
understand that as for my cousin Ulick, who had been my best friend through life, I could put
up with rough treatment from him; yet, though I was a boy, even that sort of treatment I would
bear from him no longer; and any other person who ventured on the like would find me a man,
to their cost. 'Mr. Quin,' I added, 'knows that fact very well; and if HE'S a man, he'll know
where to find me.'

My uncle now observed that it was getting late, and that my mother would be anxious about me.
'One of you had better go home with him,' said he, turning to his sons, 'or the lad may be
playing more pranks.' But Ulick said, with a nod to his brother, 'Both of us ride home with
Quin here.'

'I'm not afraid of Freny's people,' said the Captain, with a faint attempt at a laugh; 'my
man is armed, and so am I.'

'You know the use of arms very well, Quin,' said Ulick; 'and no one can doubt your courage;
but Mick and I will see you home for all that.'

'Why, you'll not be home till morning, boys. Kilwangan's a good ten mile from here.'

'We'll sleep at Quin's quarters,' replied Ulick: 'WE'RE GOING TO STOP A WEEK THERE.'

'Thank you,' says Quin, very faint; 'it's very kind of you.'

'You'll be lonely, you know, without us.'

'Oh yes, very lonely!' says Quin.

'And in ANOTHER WEEK, my boy,' says Ulick (and here he whispered something in the Captain's
ear, in which I thought I caught the words 'marriage,' 'parson,' and felt all my fury returning
again).

'As you please,' whined out the Captain; and the horses were quickly brought round, and the
three gentlemen rode away.

Fagan stopped, and, at my uncle's injunction, walked across the old treeless park with me.
He said that after the quarrel at dinner, he thought I would scarcely want to see the ladies
that night, in which opinion I concurred entirely; and so we went off without an adieu.

'A pretty day's work of it you have made, Master Redmond,' said he. 'What! you a friend to
the Bradys, and knowing your uncle to be distressed for money, try and break off a match which
will bring fifteen hundred a year into the family? Quin has promised to pay off the four thousand
pounds which is bothering your uncle so. He takes a girl without a penny--a girl with no more
beauty than yonder bullock. Well, well, don't look furious; let's say she IS handsome--there's
no accounting for tastes,--a girl that has been flinging herself at the head of every man in
these parts these ten years past, and MISSING them all. And you, as poor as herself, a boy
of fifteen--well, sixteen, if you insist--and a boy who ought to be attached to your uncle
as to your father'--

'And so I am,' said I.

'And this is the return you make him for his kindness! Didn't he harbour you in his house when
you were an orphan, and hasn't he given you rent-free your fine mansion of Barryville yonder?
And now, when his affairs can be put into order, and a chance offers for his old age to be
made comfortable, who flings himself in the way of him and competence?--You, of all others;
the man in the world most obliged to him. It's wicked, ungrateful, unnatural. From a lad of
such spirit as you are, I expect a truer courage.'

'I am not afraid of any man alive,' exclaimed I (for this latter part of the Captain's argument
had rather staggered me, and I wished, of course, to turn it--as one always should when the
enemy's too strong); 'and it's I am the injured man, Captain Fagan. No man was ever, since
the world began, treated so. Look here--look at this riband. I've worn it in my heart for six
months. I've had it there all the time of the fever. Didn't Nora take it out of her own bosom
and give it me? Didn't she kiss me when she gave it me, and call me her darling Redmond?'

'She was PRACTISING,' replied Mr. Fagan, with a sneer. 'I know women, sir. Give them time,
and let nobody else come to the house, and they'll fall in love with a chimney-sweep. There
was a young lady in Fermoy'--

'A young lady in flames,' roared I (but I used a still hotter word). 'Mark this; come what
will of it, I swear I'll fight the man who pretends to the hand of Nora Brady. I'll follow
him, if it's into the church, and meet him there. I'll have his blood, or he shall have mine;
and this riband shall be found dyed in it. Yes, and if I kill him, I'll pin it on his breast,
and then she may go and take back her token.' This I said because I was very much excited at
the time, and because I had not read novels and romantic plays for nothing.

'Well,' says Fagan after a pause, 'if it must be, it must. For a young fellow, you are the
most blood-thirsty I ever saw. Quin's a determined fellow, too.'

'Will you take my message to him?' said I, quite eagerly.

'Hush!' said Fagan: 'your mother may be on the look-out. Here we are, close to Barryville.'

'Mind! not a word to my mother,' I said; and went into the house swelling with pride and exultation
to think that I should have a chance against the Englishman I hated so.

Tim, my servant, had come up from Barryville on my mother's return from church; for the good
lady was rather alarmed at my absence, and anxious for my return. But he had seen me go in
to dinner, at the invitation of the sentimental lady's-maid; and when he had had his own share
of the good things in the kitchen, which was always better furnished than ours at home, had
walked back again to inform his mistress where I was, and, no doubt, to tell her, in his own
fashion, of all the events that had happened at Castle Brady. In spite of my precautions to
secrecy, then, I half suspected that my mother knew all, from the manner in which she embraced
me on my arrival, and received our guest, Captain Fagan. The poor soul looked a little anxious
and flushed, and every now and then gazed very hard in the Captain's face; but she said not
a word about the quarrel, for she had a noble spirit, and would as lief have seen anyone of
her kindred hanged as shirking from the field of honour. What has become of those gallant feelings
nowadays? Sixty years ago a man was a MAN, in old Ireland, and the sword that was worn by his
side was at the service of any gentleman's gizzard, upon the slightest difference. But the
good old times and usages are fast fading away. One scarcely every hears of a fair meeting
now, and the use of those cowardly pistols, in place of the honourable and manly weapon of
gentlemen, has introduced a deal of knavery into the practice of duelling, that cannot be sufficiently
deplored.

When I arrived at home I felt that I was a man in earnest, and welcoming Captain Fagan to Barryville,
and introducing him to my mother, in a majestic and dignified way, said the Captain must be
thirsty after his walk, and called upon Tim to bring up a bottle of the yellow-sealed Bordeaux,
and cakes and glasses, immediately.

Tim looked at the mistress in great wonderment: and the fact is, that six hours previous I
would as soon have thought of burning the house down as calling for a bottle of claret on my
own account; but I felt I was a man now, and had a right to command; and my mother felt this
too, for she turned to the fellow and said, sharply, 'Don't you hear, you rascal, what YOUR
MASTER says! Go, get the wine, and the cakes and glasses, directly.' Then (for you may be sure
she did not give Tim the keys of our little cellar) she went and got the liquor herself; and
Tim brought it in, on the silver tray, in due form. My dear mother poured out the wine, and
drank the Captain welcome; but I observed her hand shook very much as she performed this courteous
duty, and the bottle went clink, clink, against the glass. When she had tasted her glass, she
said she had a headache, and would go to bed; and so I asked her blessing, as becomes a dutiful
son--(the modern BLOODS have given up the respectful ceremonies which distinguished a gentleman
in my time)--and she left me and Captain Fagan to talk over our important business.

'Indeed,' said the Captain,' I see now no other way out of the scrape than a meeting. The fact
is, there was a talk of it at Castle Brady, after your attack upon Quin this afternoon, and
he vowed that he would cut you in pieces: but the tears and supplications of Miss Honoria induced
him, though very unwillingly, to relent. Now, however, matters have gone too far. No officer,
bearing His Majesty's commission, can receive a glass of wine on his nose--this claret of yours
is very good, by the way, and by your leave we'll ring for another bottle--without resenting
the affront. Fight you must; and Quin is a huge strong fellow.'

'He'll give the better mark,' said I. 'I am not afraid of him.'

'In faith,' said the Captain,' I believe you are not; for a lad, I never saw more game in my life.'

'Look at that sword, sir,' says I, pointing to an elegant silver-mounted one, in a white shagreen
case, that hung on the mantelpiece, under the picture of my father, Harry Barry. 'It was with
that sword, sir, that my father pinked Mohawk O'Driscol, in Dublin, in the year 1740; with
that sword, sir, he met Sir Huddlestone Fuddlestone, the Hampshire baronet, and ran him through
the neck. They met on horseback, with sword and pistol, on Hounslow Heath, as I dare say you
have heard tell of, and those are the pistols' (they hung on each side of the picture) 'which
the gallant Barry used. He was quite in the wrong, having insulted Lady Fuddlestone, when in
liquor, at the Brentford assembly. But, like a gentleman, he scorned to apologise, and Sir
Huddlestone received a ball through his hat, before they engaged with the sword. I am Harry
Barry's son, sir, and will act as becomes my name and my quality.'

'Give me a kiss, my dear boy,' said Fagan, with tears in his eyes. 'You're after my own soul.
As long as Jack Fagan lives you shall never want a friend or a second.'

Poor fellow! he was shot six months afterwards, carrying orders to my Lord George Sackville,
at Minden, and I lost thereby a kind friend. But we don't know what is in store for us, and
that night was a merry one at least. We had a second bottle, and a third too (I could hear
the poor mother going downstairs for each, but she never came into the parlour with them, and
sent them in by the butler, Mr. Tim): and we parted at length, he engaging to arrange matters
with Mr. Quin's second that night, and to bring me news in the morning as to the place where
the meeting should take place. I have often thought since, how different my fate might have
been, had I not fallen in love with Nora at that early age; and had I not flung the wine in
Quin's face, and so brought on the duel. I might have settled down in Ireland but for that
(for Miss Quinlan was an heiress, within twenty miles of us, and Peter Burke, of Kilwangan,
left his daughter Judy L700 a year, and I might have had either of them, had I waited a few
years). But it was in my fate to be a wanderer, and that battle with Quin sent me on my travels
at a very early age: as you shall hear anon.

I never slept sounder in my life, though I woke a little earlier than usual; and you may be
sure my first thought was of the event of the day, for which I was fully prepared. I had ink
and pen in my room--had I not been writing those verses to Nora but the day previous, like
a poor fond fool as I was? And now I sat down and wrote a couple of letters more: they might
be the last, thought I, that I ever should write in my life. The first was to my mother:--

'Honoured Madam'--I wrote--'This will not be given you unless I fall by the hand of Captain
Quin, whom I meet this day in the field of honour, with sword and pistol. If I die, it is as
a good Christian and a gentleman,--how should I be otherwise when educated by such a mother
as you? I forgive all my enemies--I beg your blessing as a dutiful son. I desire that my mare
Nora, which my uncle gave me, and which I called after the most faithless of her sex, may be
returned to Castle Brady, and beg you will give my silver-hiked hanger to Phil Purcell, the
gamekeeper. Present my duty to my uncle and Ulick, and all the girls of MY party there. And
I remain your dutiful son,

'REDMOND BARRY.'

To Nora I wrote:--

'This letter will be found in my bosom along with the token you gave me. It will be dyed in
my blood (unless I have Captain Quin's, whom I hate, but forgive), and will be a pretty ornament
for you on your marriage-day. Wear it, and think of the poor boy to whom you gave it, and who
died (as he was always ready to do) for your sake.

'REDMOND.'

These letters being written, and sealed with my father's great silver seal of the Barry arms,
I went down to breakfast; where my mother was waiting for me, you may be sure. We did not say
a single word about what was taking place: on the contrary, we talked of anything but that;
about who was at church the day before, and about my wanting new clothes now I was grown so
tall. She said I must have a suit against winter, if--if--she could afford it. She winced rather
at the 'if,' Heaven bless her! I knew what was in her mind. And then she fell to telling me
about the black pig that must be killed, and that she had found the speckled hen's nest that
morning, whose eggs I liked so, and other such trifling talk. Some of these eggs were for breakfast,
and I ate them with a good appetite; but in helping myself to salt I spilled it, on which she
started up with a scream. 'THANK GOD,' said she, 'IT'S FALLEN TOWARDS ME.' And then, her heart
being too full, she left the room. Ah! they have their faults, those mothers; but are there
any other women like them?

When she was gone I went to take down the sword with which my father had vanquished the Hampshire
baronet, and, would you believe it?--the brave woman had tied A NEW RIBAND to the hilt: for
indeed she had the courage of a lioness and a Brady united. And then I took down the pistols,
which were always kept bright and well oiled, and put some fresh flints I had into the locks,
and got balls and powder ready against the Captain should come. There was claret and a cold
fowl put ready for him on the sideboard, and a case-bottle of old brandy too, with a couple
of little glasses on the silver tray with the Barry arms emblazoned. In after life, and in
the midst of my fortune and splendour, I paid thirty-five guineas, and almost as much more
interest, to the London goldsmith who supplied my father with that very tray. A scoundrel pawnbroker
would only give me sixteen for it afterwards; so little can we trust the honour of rascally
tradesmen!

At eleven o'clock Captain Fagan arrived, on horseback, with a mounted dragoon after him. He
paid his compliments to the collation which my mother's care had provided for him, and then
said, 'Look ye, Redmond my boy; this is a silly business. The girl will marry Quin, mark my
words; and as sure as she does you'll forget her. You are but a boy. Quin is willing to consider
you as such. Dublin's a fine place, and if you have a mind to take a ride thither and see the
town for a month, here are twenty guineas at your service. Make Quin an apology, and be off.'

'A man of honour, Mr. Fagan,' says I, 'dies, but never apologises. I'll see the Captain hanged
before I apologise.'

'Then there's nothing for it but a meeting.'

'My mare is saddled and ready,' says I; 'where's the meeting, and who's the Captain's second?'

'Your cousins go out with him,' answered Mr. Fagan.

'I'll ring for my groom to bring my mare round,' I said, 'as soon as you have rested yourself.'
Tim was accordingly despatched for Nora, and I rode away, but I didn't take leave of Mrs. Barry.
The curtains of her bedroom windows were down, and they didn't move as we mounted and trotted
off... BUT TWO HOURS AFTERWARDS, you should have seen her as she came tottering downstairs,
and heard the scream which she gave as she hugged her boy to her heart, quite unharmed and
without a wound in his body.

What had taken place I may as well tell here. When we got to the ground, Ulick, Mick, and the
Captain were already there: Quin, flaming in red regimentals, as big a monster as ever led
a grenadier company. The party were laughing together at some joke of one or the other: and
I must say I thought this laughter very unbecoming in my cousins, who were met, perhaps, to
see the death of one of their kindred.

