2. Silesian Campaign of 1741.--In February 1741, the Austrians collected a field army under
Count Neipperg (1684-1774) and made preparations to reconquer Silesia. The Austrians in Neisse
and Brieg still held out. Glogau, however, was stormed on the night of the 9th of March, the
Prussians, under Prince Leopold (the younger) of Anhalt-Dessau, executing their task in one
hour with a mathematical precision which excited universal admiration. But the Austrian army
in Moravia was now in the field, and Frederick's cantonments were dispersed over all Upper
Silesia. It was a work of the greatest difficulty to collect the army, for the ground was deep
in snow, and before it was completed Neisse was relieved and the Prussians cut off from their
own country by the march of Neipperg from Neisse on Brieg; a few days of slow manoeuvring between
these places ended in the battle of Mollwitz (10th April 1741), the first pitched battle fought
by Frederick and his army. The Prussian right wing of cavalry was speedily routed, but the
day was retrieved by the magnificent discipline and tenacity of the infantry. The Austrian
cavalry was shattered in repeated attempts to ride them down, and before the Prussian volleys
the Austrian infantry, in spite of all that Neipperg and his officers could do, gradually melted
away. After a stubborn contest the Prussians remained masters of the field. Frederick himself
was far away. He had fought in the cavalry mêlée, but after this, when the battle seemed lost,
he had been persuaded by Field Marshal Schwerin to ride away. Schwerin thus, like Marshal Saxe
at Fontenoy, remained behind to win the victory, and the king narrowly escaped being captured
by wandering Austrian hussars. The immediate result of the battle was that the king secured
Brieg, and Neipperg fell back to Neisse, where he maintained himself and engaged in a war of
manoeuvre during the summer. But Europe realized suddenly that a new military power had arisen,
and France sent Marshal Belleisle to Frederick's camp to negotiate an alliance. Thenceforward
the "Silesian adventure" became the War of the Austrian Succession. The elector of Bavaria's
candidature for the imperial dignity was to be supported by a French "auxiliary" army, and
other French forces were sent to observe Hanover. Saxony was already watched by a Prussian
army under Prince Leopold of Anhalt-Dessau, the "old Dessauer," who had trained the Prussian
army to its present perfection. The task of Sweden was to prevent Russia from attacking Prussia,
but her troops were defeated, on the 3rd of September 1741, at Wilmanstrand by a greatly superior
Russian army, and in 1742 another great reverse was sustained in the capitulation of Helsingfors.
In central Italy an army of Neapolitans and Spaniards was collected for the conquest of the
Milanese.

3. The Allies in Bohemia.--The French duly joined the elector's forces on the Danube and advanced
on Vienna; but the objective was suddenly changed, and after many countermarches the allies
advanced, in three widely-separated corps, on Prague. A French corps moved via Amberg and Pilsen.
The elector marched on Budweis, and the Saxons (who had now joined the allies) invaded Bohemia
by the Elbe valley. The Austrians could at first offer little resistance, but before long a
considerable force intervened at Tabor between the Danube and the allies, and Neipperg was
now on the march from Neisse to join in the campaign. He had made with Frederick the curious
agreement of Klein Schnellendorf (9th October 1741), by which Neisse was surrendered after
a mock siege, and the Austrians undertook to leave Frederick unmolested in return for his releasing
Neipperg's army for service elsewhere. At the same time the Hungarians, moved to enthusiasm
by the personal appeal of Maria Theresa, had put into the field a levée en masse, or "insurrection,"
which furnished the regular army with an invaluable force of light troops. A fresh army was
collected under Field Marshal Khevenhüller at Vienna, and the Austrians planned an offensive
winter campaign against the Franco-Bavarian forces in Bohemia and the small Bavarian army that
remained on the Danube to defend the electorate. The French in the meantime had stormed Prague
on the 26th of November, the grand-duke Francis, consort of Maria Theresa, who commanded the
Austrians in Bohemia, moving too slowly to save the fortress. The elector of Bavaria, who now
styled himself archduke of Austria, was crowned king of Bohemia (19th December 1741) and elected
to the imperial throne as Charles VII. (24th January 1742), but no active measures were undertaken.
In Bohemia the month of December was occupied in mere skirmishes. On the Danube, Khevenhüller,
the best general in the Austrian service, advanced on the 27th of December, swiftly drove back
the allies, shut them up in Linz, and pressed on into Bavaria. Munich itself surrendered to
the Austrians on the coronation day of Charles VII. At the close of this first act of the campaign
the French, under the old Marshal de Broglie, maintained a precarious foothold in central Bohemia,
menaced by the main army of the Austrians, and Khevenhüller was ranging unopposed in Bavaria,
while Frederick, in pursuance of his secret obligations, lay inactive in Silesia. In Italy
the allied Neapolitans and Spaniards had advanced towards Modena, the duke of which state had
allied himself with them, but the vigilant Austrian commander Count Traun had outmarched them,
captured Modena, and forced the duke to make a separate peace.

4. Campaign of 1742.--Frederick had hoped by the truce to secure Silesia, for which alone he
was fighting. But with the successes of Khevenhüller and the enthusiastic "insurrection" of
Hungary, Maria Theresa's opposition became firmer, and she divulged the provisions of the truce,
in order to compromise Frederick with his allies. The war recommenced. Frederick had not rested
on his laurels; in the uneventful summer campaign of 1741 he had found time to begin that reorganization
of his cavalry which was before long to make it even more efficient than his infantry. Charles
VII., whose territories were overrun by the Austrians, asked him to create a diversion by invading
Moravia. In December 1741, therefore, Schwerin had crossed the border and captured Olmütz.
Glatz also was invested, and the Prussian army was concentrated about Olmütz in January 1742.
A combined plan of operations was made by the French, Saxons and Prussians for the rescue of
Linz. But Linz soon fell; Broglie on the Moldau, weakened by the departure of the Bavarians
to oppose Khevenhüller, and of the Saxons to join forces with Frederick, was in no condition
to take the offensive, and large forces under Prince Charles of Lorraine lay in his front from
Budweis to Iglau. Frederick's march was made towards Iglau in the first place. Brünn was invested
about the same time (February), but the direction of the march was changed, and instead of
moving against Prince Charles, Frederick pushed on southwards by Znaim and Nikolsburg. The
extreme outposts of the Prussians appeared before Vienna. But Frederick's advance was a mere
foray, and Prince Charles, leaving a screen of troops in front of Broglie, marched to cut off
the Prussians from Silesia, while the Hungarian levies poured into Upper Silesia by the Jablunka
Pass. The Saxons, discontented and demoralized, soon marched off to their own country, and
Frederick with his Prussians fell back by Zwittau and Leutomischl to Kuttenberg in Bohemia,
where he was in touch with Broglie on the one hand and (Glatz having now surrendered) with
Silesia on the other. No defence of Olmütz was attempted, and the small Prussian corps remaining
in Moravia fell back towards Upper Silesia. Prince Charles, in pursuit of the king [v.03 p.0041]
marched by Iglau and Teutsch (Deutsch) Brod on Kuttenberg, and on the 17th of May was fought
the battle of Chotusitz or Czaslau, in which after a severe struggle the king was victorious.
His cavalry on this occasion retrieved its previous failure, and its conduct gave an earnest
of its future glory not only by its charges on the battlefield, but its vigorous pursuit of
the defeated Austrians. Almost at the same time Broglie fell upon a part of the Austrians left
on the Moldau and won a small, but morally and politically important, success in the action
of Sahay, near Budweis (May 24, 1742). Frederick did not propose another combined movement.
His victory and that of Broglie disposed Maria Theresa to cede Silesia in order to make good
her position elsewhere, and the separate peace between Prussia and Austria, signed at Breslau
on the 11th of June, closed the First Silesian War. The War of the Austrian Succession continued.

5. The French at Prague.--The return of Prince Charles, released by the peace of Breslau, put
an end to Broglie's offensive. The prince pushed back the French posts everywhere, and his
army converged upon Prague, where, towards the end of June 1742, the French were to all intents
and purposes surrounded. Broglie had made the best resistance possible with his inferior forces,
and still displayed great activity, but his position was one of great peril. The French government
realized at last that it had given its general inadequate forces. The French army on the lower
Rhine, hitherto in observation of Hanover and other possibly hostile states, was hurried into
Franconia. Prince Charles at once raised the siege of Prague (September 14), called up Khevenhüller
with the greater part of the Austrian army on the Danube, and marched towards Amberg to meet
the new opponent. Marshal Maillebois (1682-1762), its commander, then manoeuvred from Amberg
towards the Eger valley, to gain touch with Broglie. Marshal Belleisle, the political head
of French affairs in Germany and a very capable general, had accompanied Broglie throughout,
and it seems that Belleisle and Broglie believed that Maillebois' mission was to regain a permanent
foothold for the army in Bohemia; Maillebois, on the contrary, conceived that his work was
simply to disengage the army of Broglie from its dangerous position, and to cover its retreat.
His operations were no more than a demonstration, and had so little effect that Broglie was
sent for in haste to take over the command from him, Belleisle at the same time taking over
charge of the army at Prague. Broglie's command was now on the Danube, east of Regensburg,
and the imperial (chiefly Bavarian) army of Charles VII. under Seckendorf aided him to clear
Bavaria of the Austrians. This was effected with ease, for Khevenhüller and most of his troops
had gone to Bohemia. Prince Charles and Khevenhüller now took post between Linz and Passau,
leaving a strong force to deal with Belleisle in Prague. This, under Prince Lobkowitz, was
little superior in numbers or quality to the troops under Belleisle, under whom served Saxe
and the best of the younger French generals, but its light cavalry swept the country clear
of provisions. The French were quickly on the verge of starvation, winter had come, and the
marshal resolved to retreat. On the night of the 16th of December 1742, the army left Prague
to be defended by a small garrison under Chevert, and took the route of Eger. The retreat (December
16-26) was accounted a triumph of generalship, but the weather made it painful and costly.
The brave Chevert displayed such confidence that the Austrians were glad to allow him freedom
to join the main army. The cause of the new emperor was now sustained only in the valley of
the Danube, where Broglie and Seckendorf opposed Prince Charles and Khevenhüller, who were
soon joined by the force lately opposing Belleisle.

In Italy, Traun held his own with ease against the Spaniards and Neapolitans. Naples was forced
by a British squadron to withdraw her troops for home defence, and Spain, now too weak to advance
in the Po valley, sent a second army to Italy via France. Sardinia had allied herself with
Austria, and at the same time neither state was at war with France, and this led to curious
complications, combats being fought in the Isère valley between the troops of Sardinia and
of Spain, in which the French took no part.

6. The Campaign of 1743 opened disastrously for the emperor. The French and Bavarian armies
were not working well together, and Broglie and Seckendorf had actually quarrelled. No connected
resistance was offered to the converging march of Prince Charles's army along the Danube, Khevenhüller
from Salzburg towards southern Bavaria, and Prince Lobkowitz (1685-1755) from Bohemia towards
the Naab. The Bavarians suffered a severe reverse near Braunau (May 9, 1743), and now an Anglo-allied
army commanded by King George II., which had been formed on the lower Rhine on the withdrawal
of Maillebois, was advancing southward to the Main and Neckar country. A French army, under
Marshal Noailles, was being collected on the middle Rhine to deal with this new force. But
Broglie was now in full retreat, and the strong places of Bavaria surrendered one after the
other to Prince Charles. The French and Bavarians had been driven almost to the Rhine when
Noailles and the king came to battle. George, completely outmanoeuvred by his veteran antagonist,
was in a position of the greatest danger between Aschaffenburg and Hanau in the defile formed
by the Spessart Hills and the river Main. Noailles blocked the outlet and had posts all around,
but the allied troops forced their way through and inflicted heavy losses on the French, and
the battle of Dettingen is justly reckoned as a notable victory of the British arms (June 27).
Both Broglie, who, worn out by age and exertions, was soon replaced by Marshal Coigny (1670-1759),
and Noailles were now on the strict defensive behind the Rhine. Not a single French soldier
remained in Germany, and Prince Charles prepared to force the passage of the great river in
the Breisgau while the king of England moved forward via Mainz to co-operate by drawing upon
himself the attention of both the French marshals. The Anglo-allied army took Worms, but after
several unsuccessful attempts to cross, Prince Charles went into winter quarters. The king
followed his example, drawing in his troops to the northward, to deal, if necessary, with the
army which the French were collecting on the frontier of Flanders. Austria, England, Holland
and Sardinia were now allied. Saxony changed sides, and Sweden and Russia neutralized each
other (peace of Abo, August 1743). Frederick was still quiescent; France, Spain and Bavaria
alone continued actively the struggle against Maria Theresa.

In Italy, the Spaniards on the Panaro had achieved a Pyrrhic victory over Traun at Campo Santo
(February 8, 1743), but the next six months were wasted in inaction, and Lobkowitz, joining
Traun with reinforcements from Germany, drove back the enemy to Rimini. The Spanish-Piedmontese
war in the Alps continued without much result, the only incident of note being a combat at
Casteldelfino won by the king of Sardinia in person.

7. Campaign of 1744.--With 1744 began the Second Silesian War. Frederick, disquieted by the
universal success of the Austrian cause, secretly concluded a fresh alliance with Louis XV.
France had posed hitherto as an auxiliary, her officers in Germany had worn the Bavarian cockade,
and only with England was she officially at war. She now declared war direct upon Austria and
Sardinia (April 1744). A corps was assembled at Dunkirk to support the cause of the Pretender
in Great Britain, and Louis in person, with 90,000 men, prepared to invade the Austrian Netherlands,
and took Menin and Ypres. His presumed opponent was the allied army previously under King George
and now composed of English, Dutch, Germans and Austrians. On the Rhine, Coigny was to make
head against Prince Charles, and a fresh army under the prince de Conti was to assist the Spaniards
in Piedmont and Lombardy. This plan was, however, at once dislocated by the advance of Charles,
who, assisted by the veteran Traun, skilfully manoeuvred his army over the Rhine near Philipsburg
(July 1), captured the lines of Weissenburg, and cut off the French marshal from Alsace. Coigny,
however, cut his way through the enemy at Weissenburg and posted himself near Strassburg. Louis
XV. now abandoned the invasion of Flanders, and his army moved down to take a decisive part
[v.03 p.0042] in the war in Alsace and Lorraine. At the same time Frederick crossed the Austrian
frontier (August).

The attention and resources of Austria were fully occupied, and the Prussians were almost unopposed.
One column passed through Saxony, another through Lusatia, while a third advanced from Silesia.
Prague, the objective, was reached on the 2nd of September. Six days later the Austrian garrison
was compelled to surrender, and the Prussians advanced to Budweis. Maria Theresa once again
rose to the emergency, a new "insurrection" took the field in Hungary, and a corps of regulars
was assembled to cover Vienna, while the diplomatists won over Saxony to the Austrian side.
Prince Charles withdrew from Alsace, unmolested by the French, who had been thrown into confusion
by the sudden and dangerous illness of Louis XV. at Metz. Only Seckendorf with the Bavarians
pursued him. No move was made by the French, and Frederick thus found himself after all isolated
and exposed to the combined attack of the Austrians and Saxons. Marshal Traun, summoned from
the Rhine, held the king in check in Bohemia, the Hungarian irregulars inflicted numerous minor
reverses on the Prussians, and finally Prince Charles arrived with the main army. The campaign
resembled that of 1742; the Prussian retreat was closely watched, and the rearguard pressed
hard. Prague fell, and Frederick, completely outmanoeuvred by the united forces of Prince Charles
and Traun, regained Silesia with heavy losses. At the same time, the Austrians gained no foothold
in Silesia itself. On the Rhine, Louis, now recovered, had besieged and taken Freiburg, after
which the forces left in the north were reinforced and besieged the strong places of Flanders.
There was also a slight war of manoeuvre on the middle Rhine.

In 1744 the Italian war became for the first time serious. A grandiose plan of campaign was
formed, and as usual the French and Spanish generals at the front were hampered by the orders
of their respective governments. The object was to unite the army in Dauphiné with that on
the lower Po. The adhesion of Genoa was secured, and a road thereby obtained into central Italy.
But Lobkowitz had already taken the offensive and driven back the Spanish army of Count de
Gages towards the Neapolitan frontier. The king of Naples at this juncture was compelled to
assist the Spaniards at all hazards. A combined army was formed at Velletri, and defeated Lobkowitz
there on the 11th of August. The crisis past, Lobkowitz then went to Piedmont to assist the
king against Conti, the king of Naples returned home, and de Gages followed the Austrians with
a weak force. The war in the Alps and the Apennines was keenly contested. Villefranche and
Montalban were stormed by Conti on the 20th of April, a desperate fight took place at Peyre-Longue
on the 18th of July, and the king of Sardinia was defeated in a great battle at Madonna del
Olmo (September 30) near Coni (Cuneo). Conti did not, however, succeed in taking this fortress,
and had to retire into Dauphiné for his winter quarters. The two armies had, therefore, failed
in their attempt to combine, and the Austro-Sardinians still lay between them.

8. Campaign of 1745.--The interest of the next campaign centres in the three greatest battles
of the war--Hohenfriedberg, Kesselsdorf and Fontenoy. The first event of the year was the Quadruple
Alliance of England, Austria, Holland and Saxony, concluded at Warsaw on the 8th of January.
Twelve days previously, the death of Charles VII. submitted the imperial title to a new election,
and his successor in Bavaria was not a candidate. The Bavarian army was again unfortunate;
caught in its scattered winter quarters (action of Amberg, January 7), it was driven from point
to point, and the young elector had to abandon Munich once more. The peace of Füssen followed
on the 22nd of April, by which he secured his hereditary states on condition of supporting
the candidature of the grand-duke Francis, consort of Maria Theresa. The "imperial" army ceased
ipso facto to exist, and Frederick was again isolated. No help was to be expected from France,
whose efforts this year were centred on the Flanders campaign. In effect, on the 10th of May,
before Frederick took the field, Louis XV. and Saxe had besieged Tournay, and inflicted upon
the relieving army of the duke of Cumberland the great defeat of Fontenoy (q.v.). In Silesia
the customary small war had been going on for some time, and the concentration of the Prussian
army was not effected without severe fighting. At the end of May, Frederick, with about 65,000
men, lay in the camp of Frankenstein, between Glatz and Neisse, while behind the Riesengebirge
about Landshut Prince Charles had 85,000 Austrians and Saxons. On the 4th of June was fought
the battle of Hohenfriedberg (q.v.) or Striegau, the greatest victory as yet of Frederick's
career, and, of all his battles, excelled perhaps by Leuthen and Rossbach only. Prince Charles
suffered a complete defeat and withdrew through the mountains as he had come. Frederick's pursuit
was methodical, for the country was difficult and barren, and he did not know the extent to
which the enemy was demoralized. The manoeuvres of both leaders on the upper Elbe occupied
all the summer, while the political questions of the imperial election and of an understanding
between Prussia and England were pending. The chief efforts of Austria were directed towards
the valleys of the Main and Lahn and Frankfort, where the French and Austrian armies manoeuvred
for a position from which to overawe the electoral body. Marshal Traun was successful, and
the grand-duke became the emperor Francis I. on the 13th of September. Frederick agreed with
England to recognize the election a few days later, but Maria Theresa would not conform to
the treaty of Breslau without a further appeal to the fortune of war. Saxony joined in this
last attempt. A new advance of Prince Charles quickly brought on the battle of Soor, fought
on ground destined to be famous in the war of 1866. Frederick was at first in a position of
great peril, but his army changed front in the face of the advancing enemy and by its boldness
and tenacity won a remarkable victory (September 30). But the campaign was not ended. An Austrian
contingent from the Main joined the Saxons under Marshal Rutowski, and a combined movement
was made in the direction of Berlin by Rutowski from Saxony and Prince Charles from Bohemia.
The danger was very great. Frederick hurried up his forces from Silesia and marched as rapidly
as possible on Dresden, winning the actions of Katholisch-Hennersdorf (November 24) and Görlitz
(November 25). Prince Charles was thereby forced back, and now a second Prussian army under
the old Dessauer advanced up the Elbe from Magdeburg to meet Rutowski. The latter took up a
strong position at Kesselsdorf between Meissen and Dresden, but the veteran Leopold attacked
him directly and without hesitation (December 14). The Saxons and their allies were completely
routed after a hard struggle, and Maria Theresa at last gave way. In the peace of Dresden (December
25) Frederick recognized the imperial election, and retained Silesia, as at the peace of Breslau.

9. Operations in Italy, 1745-1747.--The campaign in Italy this year was also no mere war of
posts. In March 1745 a secret treaty allied the Genoese republic with France, Spain and Naples.
A change in the command of the Austrians favoured the first move of the allies, De Gages moved
from Modena towards Lucca, the French and Spaniards in the Alps under Marshal Maillebois advanced
through the Riviera to the Tanaro, and in the middle of July the two armies were at last concentrated
between the Scrivia and the Tanaro, to the unusually large number of 80,000. A swift march
on Piacenza drew the Austrian commander thither, and in his absence the allies fell upon and
completely defeated the Sardinians at Bassignano (September 27), a victory which was quickly
followed by the capture of Alessandria, Valenza and Casale. Jomini calls the concentration
of forces which effected the victory "le plus remarquable de toute la guerre." But the complicated
politics of Italy brought it about that Maillebois was ultimately unable to turn his victory
to account. Indeed, early in 1746, Austrian troops, freed by the peace with Frederick, passed
through Tirol into Italy; the Franco-Spanish winter quarters were brusquely attacked, and a
French garrison of 6000 men at Asti was forced to capitulate. At the same time Count Browne
with an Austrian corps struck at the allies on the lower Po, and cut off their communication
with the main body [v.03 p.0043] in Piedmont. A series of minor actions thus completely destroyed
the great concentration. The allies separated, Maillebois covering Liguria, the Spaniards marching
against Browne. The latter was promptly and heavily reinforced, and all that the Spaniards
could do was to entrench themselves at Piacenza; the Spanish Infant as supreme commander calling
up Maillebois to his aid. The French, skilfully conducted and marching rapidly, joined forces
once more, but their situation was critical, for only two marches behind them the army of the
king of Sardinia was in pursuit, and before them lay the principal army of the Austrians. The
pitched battle of Piacenza (June 16) was hard fought, and Maillebois had nearly achieved a
victory when orders from the Infant compelled him to retire. That the army escaped at all was
in the highest degree creditable to Maillebois and to his son and chief of staff, under whose
leadership it eluded both the Austrians and the Sardinians, defeated an Austrian corps in the
battle of Rottofreddo (August 12), and made good its retreat on Genoa. It was, however, a mere
remnant of the allied army which returned, and the Austrians were soon masters of north Italy,
including Genoa (September). But they met with no success in their forays towards the Alps.
Soon Genoa revolted from the oppressive rule of the victors, rose and drove out the Austrians
(December 5-11), and the French, now commanded by Belleisle, took the offensive (1747). Genoa
held out against a second Austrian siege, and after the plan of campaign had as usual been
referred to Paris and Madrid, it was relieved, though a picked corps of the French army under
the chevalier de Belleisle, brother of the marshal, was defeated in the almost impossible attempt
(July 19) to storm the entrenched pass of Exiles (Col di Assietta), the chevalier, and with
him the élite of the French nobility, being killed at the barricades. Before the steady advance
of Marshal Belleisle the Austrians retired into Lombardy, and a desultory campaign was waged
up to the conclusion of peace.

In North America the most remarkable incident of what has been called "King George's War" was
the capture of the French Canadian fortress of Louisburg by a British expedition (April 20-June
16, 1745), of which the military portion was furnished by the colonial militia under Colonel
(afterwards Lieutenant-General Sir William) Pepperell (1696-1759) of Maine. Louisburg was then
regarded merely as a nest of privateers, and at the peace it was given up, but in the Seven
Years' War it came within the domain of grand strategy, and its second capture was the preliminary
step to the British conquest of Canada. For the war in India, see INDIA: History.

10. Later Campaigns.--The last three campaigns of the war in the Netherlands were illustrated
by the now fully developed genius of Marshal Saxe. After Fontenoy the French carried all before
them. The withdrawal of most of the English to aid in suppressing the 'Forty-Five rebellion
at home left their allies in a helpless position. In 1746 the Dutch and the Austrians were
driven back towards the line of the Meuse, and most of the important fortresses were taken
by the French. The battle of Roucoux (or Raucourt) near Liége, fought on the 11th of October
between the allies under Prince Charles of Lorraine and the French under Saxe, resulted in
a victory for the latter. Holland itself was now in danger, and when in April 1747 Saxe's army,
which had now conquered the Austrian Netherlands up to the Meuse, turned its attention to the
United Provinces, the old fortresses on the frontier offered but slight resistance. The prince
of Orange and the duke of Cumberland underwent a severe defeat at Lauffeld (Lawfeld, &c., also
called Val) on the 2nd of July 1747, and Saxe, after his victory, promptly and secretly despatched
a corps under (Marshal) Löwendahl to besiege Bergen-op-Zoom. On the 18th of September Bergen-op-Zoom
was stormed by the French, and in the last year of the war Maestricht, attacked by the entire
forces of Saxe and Löwendahl, surrendered on the 7th of May 1748. A large Russian army arrived
on the Meuse to join the allies, but too late to be of use. The quarrel of Russia and Sweden
had been settled by the peace of Abo in 1743, and in 1746 Russia had allied herself with Austria.
Eventually a large army marched from Moscow to the Rhine, an event which was not without military
significance, and in a manner preluded the great invasions of 1813-1814 and 1815. The general
peace of Aix-la-Chapelle (Aachen) was signed on the 18th of October 1748.

11. General Character of the War.--Little need be said of the military features of the war.
The intervention of Prussia as a military power was indeed a striking phenomenon, but her triumph
was in a great measure due to her fuller application of principles of tactics and discipline
universally recognized though less universally enforced. The other powers reorganized their
forces after the war, not so much on the Prussian model as on the basis of a stricter application
of known general principles. Prussia, moreover, was far ahead of all the other continental
powers in administration, and over Austria, in particular, her advantage in this matter was
almost decisive of the struggle. Added to this was the personal ascendancy of Frederick, not
yet a great general, but energetic and resolute, and, further, opposed to generals who were
responsible for their men to their individual sovereigns. These advantages have been decisive
in many wars, almost in all. The special feature of the war of 1740 to 1748, and of other wars
of the time, is the extraordinary disparity between the end and the means. The political schemes
to be executed by the French and other armies were as grandiose as any of modern times; their
execution, under the then conditions of time and space, invariably fell short of expectation,
and the history of the war proves, as that of the Seven Years' War was to prove, that the small
standing army of the 18th century could conquer by degrees, but could not deliver a decisive
blow. Frederick alone, with a definite end and proportionate means wherewith to achieve it,
succeeded completely. The French, in spite of their later victories, obtained so little of
what they fought for that Parisians could say to each other, when they met in the streets,
"You are as stupid as the Peace." And if, when fighting for their own hand, the governments
of Europe could so fail of their purpose, even less was to be expected when the armies were
composed of allied contingents, sent to the war each for a different object. The allied national
armies of 1813 co-operated loyally, for they had much at stake and worked for a common object;
those of 1741 represented the divergent private interests of the several dynasties, and achieved
nothing.

BIBLIOGRAPHY.--Besides general works on Frederick's life and reign, of which Carlyle, Preuss
and v. Taysen are of particular importance, and Frederick's own works, see the Prussian official
Die I. und II. schlesischen Kriege (Berlin, 1890-1895); Austrian official Kriege der Kaiserin
Maria Theresia; Gesch. des österr. Erbfolgekrieges (Vienna, from 1895); Jomini, Traité des
grandes opérations militaires, introduction to vol. i. (Paris, 4th edition, 1851); C. von B.-K.,
Geist und Stoff im Kriege (Vienna, 1895); v. Arneth, Maria Teresias ersten Regierungsjahre
(1863); v. Schöning, Die 5 erste Jahre der Regierung Friedrichs des Grossen; Bernhardi, Friedrich
der Grosse als Feldherr (Berlin, 1881); v. Canitz, Nachrichten, &c., über die Taten und Schicksale
der Reiterei, &c. (Berlin, 1861); Grünhagen, Gesch. des I. schlesischen Krieges (Gotha, 1881-1882);
Orlich, Gesch. der schlesischen Kriege; Deroy, Beiträge zur Gesch. des österr. Erbfolgekrieges
(Munich, 1883); Crousse, La Guerre de la succession dans les provinces belgiques (Paris, 1885);
Duncker, Militärische, &c., Aktenstücke zur Gesch. des I. schles. Krieges; Militär-Wochenblatt
supplements 1875, 1877, 1878, 1883, 1891, 1901, &c. (Berlin); Mitteilungen des k.k. Kriegsarchivs,
from 1887 (Vienna); Baumgart, Die Litteratur, &c., über Friedrich d. Gr. (Berlin, 1886); Fortescue,
History of the British Army, vol. ii.; F. H. Skrine, Fontenoy and the War of the Austrian Succession
(London, 1906); Francis Parkman, A Half-Century of Conflict (1892).

(C. F. A.)

Naval Operations.

The naval operations of this war were languid and confused. They are complicated by the fact
that they were entangled with the Spanish war, which broke out in 1739 in consequence of the
long disputes between England and Spain over their conflicting claims in America. Until the
closing years they were conducted with small intelligence or spirit. The Spanish government
was nerveless, and sacrificed its true interest to the family ambition of the king Philip V.,
who wished to establish his younger sons as ruling princes in Italy. French administration
was corrupt, and the government was chiefly concerned in its political interests in Germany.
The British navy was at its lowest point of energy [v.03 p.0044] and efficiency after the long
administration of Sir Robert Walpole. Therefore, although the war contained passages of vigour,
it was neither interesting nor decisive on the sea.

War on Spain was declared by Great Britain on the 23rd of October 1739. It was universally
believed that the Spanish colonies would fall at once before attack. A plan was laid for combined
operations against them from east and west. One force, military and naval, was to assault them
from the West Indies under Admiral Edward Vernon. Another, to be commanded by Commodore George
Anson, afterwards Lord Anson, was to round Cape Horn and to fall upon the Pacific coast. Delays,
bad preparations, dockyard corruption, and the unpatriotic squabbles of the naval and military
officers concerned caused the failure of a hopeful scheme. On the 21st of November 1739 Admiral
Vernon did indeed succeed in capturing the ill-defended Spanish harbour of Porto Bello (in
the present republic of Panama)--a trifling success to boast of. But he did nothing to prevent
the Spanish convoys from reaching Europe. The Spanish privateers cruised with destructive effect
against British trade, both in the West Indies and in European waters. When Vernon had been
joined by Sir Chaloner Ogle with naval reinforcements and a strong body of troops, an attack
was made on Cartagena in what is now Colombia (March 9-April 24, 1741). The delay had given
the Spanish admiral, Don Bias de Leso, time to prepare, and the siege failed with a dreadful
loss of life to the assailants. Want of success was largely due to the incompetence of the
military officers and the brutal insolence of the admiral. The war in the West Indies, after
two other unsuccessful attacks had been made on Spanish territory, died down and did not revive
till 1748. The expedition under Anson sailed late, was very ill provided, and less strong than
had been intended. It consisted of six ships and left England on the 18th of September 1740.
Anson returned alone with his flagship the "Centurion" on the 15th of June 1744. The other
vessels had either failed to round the Horn or had been lost. But Anson had harried the coast
of Chile and Peru and had captured a Spanish galleon of immense value near the Philippines.
His cruise was a great feat of resolution and endurance.

While Anson was pursuing his voyage round the world, Spain was mainly intent on the Italian
policy of the king. A squadron was fitted out at Cadiz to convey troops to Italy. It was watched
by the British admiral Nicholas Haddock. When the blockading squadron was forced off by want
of provisions, the Spanish admiral Don José Navarro put to sea. He was followed, but when the
British force came in sight of him Navarro had been joined by a French squadron under M. de
Court (December 1741). The French admiral announced that he would support the Spaniards if
they were attacked and Haddock retired. France and Great Britain were not yet openly at war,
but both were engaged in the struggle in Germany--Great Britain as the ally of the queen of
Hungary, Maria Theresa; France as the supporter of the Bavarian claimant of the empire. Navarro
and M. de Court went on to Toulon, where they remained till February 1744. A British fleet
watched them, under the command of admiral Richard Lestock, till Sir Thomas Mathews was sent
out as commander-in-chief, and as minister to the court of Turin. Partial manifestations of
hostility between the French and British took place in different seas, but avowed war did not
begin till the French government issued its declaration of the 30th of March, to which Great
Britain replied on the 31st. This formality had been preceded by French preparations for the
invasion of England, and by a collision between the allies and Mathews in the Mediterranean
(see TOULON, BATTLE OF). On the 11th of February a most confused battle was fought, in which
the van and centre of the British fleet was engaged with the rear and centre of the allies.
Lestock, who was on the worst possible terms with his superior, took no part in the action.
He endeavoured to excuse himself by alleging that the orders of Mathews were contradictory.
Mathews, a puzzle-headed and hot-tempered man, fought with spirit but in a disorderly way,
breaking the formation of his fleet, and showing no power of direction. The mismanagement of
the British fleet in the battle, by arousing deep anger among the people, led to a drastic
reform of the British navy which bore its first fruits before the war ended.

The French invasion scheme was arranged in combination with the Jacobite leaders, and soldiers
were to be transported from Dunkirk. But though the British government showed itself wholly
wanting in foresight, the plan broke down. In February 1744, a French fleet of twenty sail
of the line entered the Channel under Jacques Aymar, comte de Roquefeuil, before the British
force under admiral John Norris was ready to oppose him. But the French force was ill equipped,
the admiral was nervous, his mind dwelt on all the misfortunes which might possibly happen,
and the weather was bad. M. de Roquefeuil came up almost as far as the Downs, where he learnt
that Sir John Norris was at hand with twenty-five sail of the line, and thereupon precipitately
retreated. The military expedition prepared at Dunkirk to cross under cover of Roquefeuil's
fleet naturally did not start. The utter weakness of the French at sea, due to long neglect
of the fleet and the bankrupt state of the treasury, was shown during the Jacobite rising of
1745, when France made no attempt to profit by the distress of the British government. The
Dutch having by this time joined Great Britain, made a serious addition to the naval power
opposed to France, though Holland was compelled by the necessity for maintaining an army in
Flanders to play a very subordinate part at sea. Not being stimulated by formidable attack,
and having immediate interests both at home and in Germany, the British government was slow
to make use of its latest naval strength. Spain, which could do nothing of an offensive character,
was almost neglected. During 1745 the New England expedition which took Louisburg (April 30-June
16) was covered by a British naval force, but the operations were in a general way sporadic,
subordinated to the supply of convoy, or to unimportant particular ends. In the East Indies,
Mahé de la Bourdonnais made a vigorous use of a small squadron to which no effectual resistance
was offered by the British naval forces. He captured Madras (July 24-September 9, 1746), a
set-off for Louisburg, for which it was exchanged at the close of the war. In the same year
a British combined naval and military expedition to the coast of France--the first of a long
series of similar ventures which in the end were derided as "breaking windows with guineas"--was
carried out during August and October. The aim was the capture of the French East India company's
dockyard at L'Orient, but it was not attained.

From 1747 till the close of the war in October 1748 the naval policy of the British government,
without reaching a high level, was yet more energetic and coherent. A closer watch was kept
on the French coast, and effectual means were taken to intercept communication between France
and her American possessions. In the spring information was obtained that an important convoy
for the East and West Indies was to sail from L'Orient. In the previous year the British government
had allowed a French expedition under M. d'Anville to fail mainly by its own weakness. In 1747
a more creditable line was taken. An overwhelming force was employed under the command of Anson
to intercept the convoy in the Channel. It was met, crushed and captured, or driven back, on
the 3rd of May. On the 14th of October another French convoy, protected by a strong squadron,
was intercepted by a well-appointed and well-directed squadron of superior numbers--the squadrons
were respectively eight French and fourteen British--in the Bay of Biscay. The French admiral
Desherbiers de l'Étenduère made a very gallant resistance, and the fine quality of his ships
enabled him to counteract to some extent the superior numbers of Sir Edward Hawke, the British
admiral. While the war-ships were engaged, the merchant vessels, with the small protection
which Desherbiers could spare them, continued on their way to the West Indies. Most of them
were, however, intercepted and captured in those waters. This disaster convinced the French
government of its helplessness at sea, and it made no further effort.

The last naval operations took place in the West Indies, where the Spaniards, who had for a
time been treated as a negligible quantity, were attacked on the coast of Cuba by a British
[v.03 p.0045] squadron under Sir Charles Knowles. They had a naval force under Admiral Regio
at Havana. Each side was at once anxious to cover its own trade, and to intercept that of the
other. Capture was rendered particularly desirable to the British by the fact that the Spanish
homeward-bound convoy would be laden with the bullion sent from the American mines. In the
course of the movement of each to protect its trade, the two squadrons met on the 1st of October
1748 in the Bahama Channel. The action was indecisive when compared with the successes of British
fleets in later days, but the advantage lay with Sir Charles Knowles. He was prevented from
following it up by the speedy receipt of the news that peace had been made in Europe by the
powers, who were all in various degrees exhausted. That it was arranged on the terms of a mutual
restoration of conquests shows that none of the combatants could claim to have established
a final superiority. The conquests of the French in the Bay of Bengal, and their military successes
in Flanders, enabled them to treat on equal terms, and nothing had been taken from Spain.

The war was remarkable for the prominence of privateering on both sides. It was carried on
by the Spaniards in the West Indies with great success, and actively at home. The French were
no less active in all seas. Mahé de la Bourdonnais's attack on Madras partook largely of the
nature of a privateering venture. The British retaliated with vigour. The total number of captures
by French and Spanish corsairs was in all probability larger than the list of British--partly
for the reason given by Voltaire, namely, that more British merchants were taken because there
were many more British merchant ships to take, but partly also because the British government
had not yet begun to enforce the use of convoy so strictly as it did in later times.

See Beatson's Naval and Military Memoirs (London, 1804); La Marine militaire de la France sous
le règne de Louis XV, by G. Lacour-Gayet (Paris, 1902); The Royal Navy, by Sir W. L. Clowes
and others (London, 1891, &c.).

(D. H.)

AUTHENTIC (from Gr. [Greek: authentês], one who does a thing himself), genuine, as opposed
to counterfeit, true or original. In music it is one of the terms used for the ecclesiastical
modes. The title of Authentics was also used for Justinian's Novells.

AUTOCEPHALOUS (from Gr. [Greek: autos], self, and [Greek: kephalê] head), of independent headship,
a term used of certain ecclesiastical functionaries and organizations.

AUTOCHTHONES (Gr. [Greek: autos], and [Greek: chthôn], earth, i.e. people sprung from earth
itself; Lat. terrigenae; see also under ABORIGINES), the original inhabitants of a country
as opposed to settlers, and those of their descendants who kept themselves free from an admixture
of foreign peoples. The practice in ancient Greece of describing legendary heroes and men of
ancient lineage as "earthborn" greatly strengthened the doctrine of autochthony; for instance,
the Athenians wore golden grasshoppers in their hair in token that they were born from the
soil and had always lived in Attica (Thucydides i. 6; Plato, Menexenus, 245). In Thebes, the
race of Sparti were believed to have sprung from a field sown with dragons' teeth. The Phrygian
Corybantes had been forced out of the hill-side like trees by Rhea, the great mother, and hence
were called [Greek: dendrophueis]. It is clear from Aeschylus (Prometheus, 447) that primitive
men were supposed to have at first lived like animals in caves and woods, till by the help
of the gods and heroes they were raised to a stage of civilization.

AUTOCLAVE, a strong closed vessel of metal in which liquids can be heated above their boiling
points under pressure. Etymologically the word indicates a self-closing vessel ([Greek: autos],
self, and clavis, key, or clavus, nail), in which the tightness of the joints is maintained
by the internal pressure, but this characteristic is frequently wanting in the actual apparatus
to which the name is applied. The prototype of the autoclave was the digester of Denis Papin,
invented in 1681, which is still used in cooking, but the appliance finds a much wider range
of employment in chemical industry, where it is utilized in various forms in the manufacture
of candles, coal-tar colours, &c. Frequently an agitator, passing through a stuffing-box, is
fitted so that the contents may be stirred, and renewable linings are provided in cases where
the substances under treatment exert a corrosive action on metal.

AUTOCRACY (Gr. [Greek: autokrateia], absolute power), a term applied to that form of government
which is absolute or irresponsible, and vested in one single person. It is a type of government
usually found amongst eastern peoples; amongst more civilized nations the only example is that
of Russia, where the sovereign assumes as a title "the autocrat of all the Russias."

AUTO-DA-FÉ, more correctly AUTO-DE-FÉ (act of faith), the name of the ceremony during the course
of which the sentences of the Spanish inquisition were read and executed. The auto-da-fe was
almost identical with the sermo generalis of the medieval inquisition. It never took place
on a feast day of the church, but on some famous anniversary: the accession of a Spanish monarch,
his marriage, the birth of an infant, &c. It was public: the king, the royal family, the grand
councils of the kingdom, the court and the people being present. The ceremony comprised a procession
in which the members of the Holy Office, with its familiars and agents, the condemned persons
and the penitents took part; a solemn mass; an oath of obedience to the inquisition, taken
by the king and all the lay functionaries; a sermon by the Grand Inquisitor; and the reading
of the sentences, either of condemnation or acquittal, delivered by the Holy Office. The handing
over of impenitent persons, and those who had relapsed, to the secular power, and their punishment,
did not usually take place on the occasion of an auto-da-fé, properly so called. Sometimes
those who were condemned to the flames were burned on the night following the ceremony. The
first great auto-da-fés were celebrated when Thomas de Torquemada, was at the head of the Spanish
inquisition (Seville 1482, Toledo 1486, &c.). The last, subsequent to the time of Charles III.,
were held in secret; moreover, they dealt with only a very small number of sentences, of which
hardly any were capital. The isolated cases of the torturing of a revolutionary priest in Mexico
in 1816, and of a relapsed Jew and of a Quaker in Spain during 1826, cannot really be considered
as auto-da-fés.

(P. A.)

AUTOGAMY (from Gr. [Greek: autos], self, and [Greek: gamia], marriage), a botanical term for
self-fertilization. (See ANGIOSPERMS.)

AUTOGENY, AUTOGENOUS (Gr. [Greek: autogenês]), spontaneous generation, self-produced. Haeckel
distinguished autogeny and plasmogeny, applying the former term when the formative fluid in
which the first living matter was supposed to arise was inorganic and the latter when it was
organic, i.e. contained the requisite fundamental substances dissolved in the form of complicated
and fluid combinations of carbon. In "autogenous soldering" two pieces of metal are united
by the melting of the opposing surfaces, without the use of a separate fusible alloy or solder
as a cementing material.

AUTOGRAPHS. Autograph (Gr. [Greek: autos], self, [Greek: graphein], to write) is a term applied
by common usage either to a document signed by the person from whom it emanates, or to one
written entirely by the hand of such person (which, however, is also more technically described
as holograph, from [Greek: holos], entire, [Greek: graphein], to write), or simply to an independent
signature.

The existence of autographs must necessarily have been coeval with the invention of letters.
Documents in the handwriting of their composers may possibly exist among the early papyri of
Egypt and the clay tablets of Babylonia and Assyria, and among the early examples of writing
in the East. But the oriental practice of employing professional scribes in writing the body
of documents and of using seals for the purpose of "signing" (the "signum" originally meaning
the impression of the seal) almost precludes the idea. When we are told (1 Kings xxi. 8) that
Jezebel wrote letters in Ahab's name and sealed them with his seal, we are, of course, to understand
that the letters were written by the professional scribes and that the impression of the king's
seal was the authentication, equivalent to the signature of western nations; and again, when
King Darius "signed" the writing and the decree (Dan. vi. 9), he did so with his seal. To find
documents which we can [v.03 p.0046] recognize with certainty to be autographs, we must descend
to the Ptolemaic and Roman periods of Egyptian history, which are represented by an abundance
of papyrus documents of all kinds, chiefly in Greek. Among them are not a few original letters
and personal documents, in which we may see the handwriting of many lettered and unlettered
individuals who lived during the 3rd century B.C. and in succeeding times, and which prove
how very widespread was the practice of writing in those days. We owe it to the dry and even
atmosphere of Egypt that these written documents have been preserved in such numbers. On the
other hand, in Italy and Greece ancient writings have perished, save the few charred papyrus
rolls and waxen tablets which have been recovered from the ruins of Herculaneum and Pompeii.
These tablets, however, have a special value, for many of them contain autograph signatures
of principals and witnesses to legal deeds to which they were attached, together with impressions
of seals, in compliance with the Roman law which required the actual subscriptions, or attested
marks, of the persons concerned.

But, when we now speak of autographs and autograph collections, we use such terms in a restricted
sense and imply documents or signatures written by persons of some degree of eminence or notoriety
in the various ranks and professions of life; and naturally the only early autographs in this
sense which could be expected to survive are the subscriptions and signatures of royal personages
and great officials attached to important public deeds, which from their nature have been more
jealously cared for than mere private documents.

Following the Roman practice, subscriptions and signatures were required in legal documents
in the early centuries of our era. Hence we find them in the few Latin deeds on papyrus which
have come to light in Egypt; we find them on the well-known Dacian waxen tablets of the 2nd
century; and we find them in the series of papyrus deeds from Ravenna and other places in Italy
between the 5th and 10th centuries. The same practice obtained in the Frankish empire. The
Merovingian kings, or at least those of them who knew how to write, subscribed their diplomas
and great charters with their own hands; and their great officers of state, chancellors and
others, countersigned in autograph. The unlettered Merovingian kings made use of monograms
composed of the letters of their names; and, curiously, the illiterate monogram was destined
to supersede the literate subscriptions. For the monogram was adopted by Charlemagne and his
successors as a recognized symbol of their subscription. It was their signum manuale, their
sign manual. In courtly imitation of the royal practice, monograms and other marks were adopted
by official personages, even though they could write. The notarial marks of modern times are
a survival of the practice. By the illiterate other signs, besides the monogram, came to be
employed, such as the cross, &c., as signs manual. The monogram was used by French monarchs
from the reign of Charlemagne to that of Philip the Fair, who died in 1314. It is very doubtful,
however, whether in any instance this sign manual was actually traced by the monarch's own
hand. At the most, the earlier sovereigns appear to have drawn one or two strokes in their
monograms, which, so far, may be called their autographs. But in the later period not even
this was done; the monogram was entirely the work of the scribe. (See DIPLOMATIC.)

The employment of marks or signs manual went out of general use after the 12th century, in
the course of which the affixing or appending of seals became the common method of executing
deeds. But, as education became more general and the practice of writing more widely diffused,
the usage grew up in the course of the 14th century of signing the name-signature as well as
of affixing the seal; and by the 15th century it had become established, and it remains to
the present time. Thus the signum manuale had disappeared, except among notaries; but the term
survived, and by a natural process it was transferred to the signature. In the present day
it is used to designate the "sign manual" or autograph signature of the sovereign.

The Anglo-Saxon kings of England did not sign their charters, their names being invariably
written by the official scribes. After the Norman conquest, the sign manual, usually a cross,
which sometimes accompanied the name of the sovereign, may in some instances be autograph;
but no royal signature is to be found earlier than the reign of Richard II. Of the signatures
of this king there are two examples, of the years 1386 and 1389, in the Public Record Office;
and there is one, of 1397, in the British Museum. Of his father, the Black Prince, there is
in the Record Office a motto-signature, De par Homont (high courage), Ich dene, subscribed
to a writ of privy seal of 1370. The kings of the Lancastrian line were apparently ready writers.
Of the handwriting of both Henry IV. and Henry V. there are specimens both in the Record Office
and in the British Museum. But by their time writing had become an ordinary accomplishment.

Apart from the autographs of sovereigns, those of famous men of the early middle ages can hardly
be said to exist, or, if they do exist, they are difficult to identify. For example, there
is a charter at Canterbury bearing the statement that it was written by Dunstan; but, as there
is a duplicate in the British Museum with the same statement, it is probable that both the
one and the other are copies. The autograph MSS. of the chronicles of Ordericus Vitalis, of
Robert de Monte, and of Sigebert of Gembloux are in existence; and among the Cottonian MSS.
there are undoubtedly autograph writings of Matthew of Paris, the English chronicler of Henry
III.'s reign. There are certain documents in the British Museum in the hand of William of Wykeham;
and among French archives there are autograph writings of the historian Joinville. These are
a few instances. When we come to such a collection as the famous Paston Letters, the correspondence
of the Norfolk family of Paston of the 15th century, we find therein numerous autographs of
historical personages of the time.

From the 16th century onward, we enter the period of modern history, and autograph documents
of all kinds become plentiful. And yet in the midst of this plenty, by a perverse fate, there
is in certain instances a remarkable dearth. The instance of Shakespeare is the most famous.
But for three signatures to the three sheets of his will, and two signatures to the conveyances
of property in Blackfriars, we should be without a vestige of his handwriting. For certain
other signatures, professing to be his, inscribed in books, may be dismissed as imitations.
Such forgeries come up from time to time, as might be expected, and are placed upon the market.
The Shakespearean forgeries, however, of W. H. Ireland were perpetrated rather with a literary
intent than as an autographic venture.

Had autograph collecting been the fashion in Shakespeare's days, we should not have had to
deplore the loss of his and of other great writers' autographs. But the taste had not then
come into vogue, at least not in England. The series of autograph documents which were gathered
in such a library as that of Sir Robert Cotton, now in the British Museum, found their way
thither on account of their literary or historic interest, and not merely as specimens of the
handwriting of distinguished men. Such a series also as that formed by Philippe de Béthune,
Comte de Selles et Charost, and his son, in the reign of Louis XIV., consisting for the most
part of original letters and papers, now in the Bibliothèque Nationale, might have been regarded
as the result of autograph collecting did we not know that it was brought together for historical
purposes. It was in Germany and the Low Countries that the practice appears to have originated,
chiefly among students and other members of the universities, of collecting autograph inscriptions
and signatures of one's friends in albums, alba amicorum, little oblong pocket volumes of which
a considerable number have survived, a very fair collection being in the British Museum. The
earliest album in the latter series is the Egerton MS. 1178, beginning with an entry of the
year 1554. Once the taste was established, the collecting of autographs of living persons was
naturally extended to those of former times; and many collections, famous in their day, have
been formed, but in most instances only to be dispersed again as the owners tired of their
fancy or as their heirs failed to inherit their tastes along with their [v.03 p.0047] possessions.
The most celebrated collection formed in England in recent years is that of the late Mr Alfred
Morrison, which still remains intact, and which is well known by means of the sumptuous catalogue,
with its many facsimiles, compiled by the owner.

The rivalry of collectors and the high prices which rare or favourite autographs realize have
naturally given encouragement to the forger. False letters of popular heroes and of popular
authors, of Nelson, of Burns, of Thackeray, and of others, appear from time to time in the
market: in some instances clever imitations, but more generally too palpably spurious to deceive
any one with experience. Like the Shakespearean forgeries of Ireland, referred to above, the
forgeries of Chatterton were literary inventions; and both were poor performances. One of the
cleverest frauds of this nature in modern times was the fabrication, in the middle of the 19th
century, of a series of letters of Byron and Shelley, with postmarks and seals complete, which
were even published as bona fide documents (Brit. Mus., Add. MS. 19,377).

There are many published collections of facsimiles of autographs of different nations. Among
those published in England the following may be named:--British Autography, by J. Thane (1788-1793,
with supplement by Daniell, 1854); Autographs of Royal, Noble, Learned and Remarkable Personages
in English History, by J. G. Nichols (1829); Facsimiles of Original Documents of Eminent Literary
Characters, by C. J. Smith (1852); Autographs of the Kings and Queens and Eminent Men of Great
Britain, by J. Netherclift (1835); One Hundred Characteristic Autograph Letters, by J. Netherclift
and Son (1849); The Autograph Miscellany, by F. Netherclift (1855); The Autograph Souvenir,
by F. G. Netherclift and R. Sims (1865); The Autographic Mirror (1864-1866); The Handbook of
Autographs, by F. G. Netherclift (1862); The Autograph Album, by L. B. Phillips (1866); Facsimiles
of Autographs (British Museum publication), five series (1896-1900). Facsimiles of autographs
also appear in the official publications, Facsimiles of National MSS., from William the Conqueror
to Queen Anne (Master of the Rolls), 1865-1868; Facsimiles of National MSS. of Scotland (Lord
Clerk Register), 1867-1871; and Facsimiles of National MSS. of Ireland (Public Record Office,
Ireland), 1874-1884.

(E. M. T.)

AUTOLYCUS, in Greek mythology, the son of Hermes and father of Anticleia, mother of Odysseus.
He lived at the foot of Mount Parnassus, and was famous as a thief and swindler. On one occasion
he met his match. Sisyphus, who had lost some cattle, suspected Autolycus of being the thief,
but was unable to bring it home to him, since he possessed the power of changing everything
that was touched by his hands. Sisyphus accordingly burnt his name into the hoofs of his cattle,
and, during a visit to Autolycus, recognized his property. It is said that on this occasion
Sisyphus seduced Autolycus's daughter Anticleia, and that Odysseus was really the son of Sisyphus,
not of Laertes, whom Anticleia afterwards married. The object of the story is to establish
the close connexion between Hermes, the god of theft and cunning, and the three persons--Sisyphus,
Odysseus, Autolycus--who are the incarnate representations of these practices. Autolycus is
also said to have instructed Heracles in the art of wrestling, and to have taken part in the
Argonautic expedition.

Iliad, x. 267; Odyssey, xix. 395; Ovid, Metam. xi. 313; Apollodorus i. 9; Hyginus, Fab. 201.

AUTOLYCUS OF PITANE, Greek mathematician and astronomer, probably flourished in the second
half of the 4th century B.C., since he is said to have instructed Arcesilaus. His extant works
consist of two treatises; the one, [Greek: Peri kinoumenês sphairas], contains some simple
propositions on the motion of the sphere, the other, [Greek: Peri epitolôn kai duseôn], in
two books, discusses the rising and setting of the fixed stars. The former treatise is historically
interesting for the light it throws on the development which the geometry of the sphere had
already reached even before Autolycus and Euclid (see THEODOSIUS OF TRIPOLIS).

There are several Latin versions of Autolycus, a French translation by Forcadel (1572), and
an admirable edition of the Greek text with Latin translation by F. Hultsch (Leipzig, 1885).

AUTOMATIC WRITING, the name given by students of psychical research to writing performed without
the volition of the agent. The writing may also take place without any consciousness of the
words written; but some automatists are aware of the word which they are actually writing,
and perhaps of two or three words on either side, though there is rarely any clear perception
of the meaning of the whole. Automatic writing may take place when the agent is in a state
of trance, spontaneous or induced, in hystero-epilepsy or other morbid states; or in a condition
not distinguishable from normal wakefulness. Automatic writing has played an important part
in the history of modern spiritualism. The phenomenon first appeared on a large scale in the
early days (c. 1850-1860) of the movement in America. Numerous writings are reported at that
period, many of considerable length, which purported for the most part to have been produced
under spirit guidance. Some of these were written in "unknown tongues." Of those which were
published the most notable are Andrew J. Davis's Great Harmonia, Charles Linton's The Healing
of the Nations, and J. Murray Spear's Messages from the Spirit Life.

In England also the early spiritualist newspapers were filled with "inspirational" writing,--Pages
of Ike Paraclete, &c. The most notable series of English automatic writings are the Spirit
Teachings of the Rev. W. Stainton Moses. The phenomenon, of course, lends itself to deception,
but there seems no reason to doubt that in the great majority of the cases recorded the writing
was in reality produced without deliberate volition. In the earlier years of the spiritualist
movement, a "planchette," a little heart-shaped board running on wheels, was employed to facilitate
the process of writing.

Of late years, whilst the theory of external inspiration as the cause of the phenomenon has
been generally discredited, automatic writing has been largely employed as a method of experimentally
investigating subconscious mental processes. Knowledge which had lapsed from the primary consciousness
is frequently revealed by this means; e.g. forgotten fragments of poetry or foreign languages
are occasionally given. An experimental parallel to this reproduction of forgotten knowledge
was devised by Edmund Gurney. He showed that information communicated to a subject in the hypnotic
trance could be subsequently reproduced through the handwriting, whilst the attention of the
subject was fully employed in conversing or reading aloud; or an arithmetical problem which
had been set during the trance could be worked out under similar conditions without the apparent
consciousness of the subject.

Automatic writing for the most part, no doubt, brings to the surface only the debris of lapsed
memories and half-formed impressions which have never reached the focus of consciousness--the
stuff that dreams are made of. But there are indications in some cases of something more than
this. In some spontaneous instances the writing produces anagrams, puns, nonsense verses and
occasional blasphemies or obscenities; and otherwise exhibits characteristics markedly divergent
from those of the normal consciousness. In the well-known case recorded by Th. Flournoy (Des
Indes à la planète Mars) the automatist produced writing in an unknown character, which purported
to be the Martian language. The writing generally resembles the ordinary handwriting of the
agent, but there are sometimes marked differences, and the same automatist may employ two or
three distinct handwritings. Occasionally imitations are produced of the handwriting of other
persons, living or dead. Not infrequently the writing is reversed, so that it can be read only
in a looking-glass (Spiegelschrift); the ability to produce such writing is often associated
with the liability to spontaneous somnambulism. The hand and arm are often insensible in the
act of writing. There are some cases on record in which the automatist has seemed to guide
his hand not by sight, but by some special extension of the muscular sense (Carpenter, Mental
Physiology, § 128; W. James, Proceedings American S.P.R. p. 554).

Automatic writing frequently exhibits indications of telepathy. The most remarkable series
of automatic writings recorded in this connexion are those executed by the American medium,
Mrs Piper, in a state of trance (Proceedings S.P.R.). These writings appear to exhibit remarkable
telepathic powers, and are thought by some to indicate communication with the spirits of the dead.

[v.03 p.0048] The opportunities afforded by automatic writing for communicating with subconscious
strata of the personality have been made use of by Pierre Janet and others in cases of hystero-epilepsy,
and other forms of dissociation of consciousness. A patient in an attack of hysterical convulsions,
to whom oral appeals are made in vain, can sometimes be induced to answer in writing questions
addressed to the hand, and thus to reveal the secret of the malady or to accept therapeutic
suggestions.

See Edmonds and Dexter, Spiritualism (New York, 1853); Epes Sargent, Planchette, the Despair
of Science (Boston, U.S.A., 1869); Mrs de Morgan, From Matter to Spirit (London, 1863); W.
Stainton Moses, Spirit Teachings (London, 1883); Proceedings S.P R. passim; Th. Flournoy, Des
Indes à la planète Mars (Geneva, 1900); F. Podmore, Modern Spiritualism (London, 1902); F.
W. H. Myers, Human Personality (London, 1903); Pierre Janet, L'Automatisme psychologique (2nd
ed., Paris, 1894); Morton Prince, The Dissociation of a Personality (London, 1906).

(F. P.)

AUTOMATISM. In philosophical terminology this word is used in two main senses: (1) in ethics,
for the view that man is not responsible for his actions, which have, therefore, no moral value;
(2) in psychology, for all actions which are not the result of conation or conscious endeavour.
Certain actions being admittedly automatic, Descartes maintained that, in regard of the lower
animals, all action is purely mechanical. The same theory has since been applied to man, with
this difference that, accompanying the mechanical phenomena of action, and entirely disconnected
with it, are the phenomena of consciousness. Thus certain physical changes in the brain result
in a given action; the concomitant mental desire or volition is in no sense causally connected
with, or prior to, the physical change. This theory, which has been maintained by T. Huxley
(Science and Culture) and Shadworth Hodgson (Metaphysic of Experience and Theory of Practice),
must be distinguished from that of the psychophysical parallelism, or the "double aspect theory"
according to which both the mental state and the physical phenomena result from a so-called
"mind stuff," or single substance, the material or cause of both.

Automatic acts are of two main kinds. Where the action goes on while the attention is focused
on entirely different subjects (e.g. in cycling), it is purely automatic. On the other hand,
if the attention is fixed on the end or on any particular part of a given action, and the other
component parts of the action are performed unconsciously, the automatism may be called relative.

See G. F. Stout, Anal. Psych, i. 258 foll.; Win. James, Princ. of Psych. i. chap. 5; also the
articles PSYCHOLOGY, SUGGESTION, &c.

Sensory Automatism is the term given by students of psychical research to a centrally initiated
hallucination. Such hallucinations are commonly provoked by crystal-gazing (q.v.), but auditory
hallucinations may be caused by the use of a shell (shell-hearing), and the other senses are
occasionally affected.

Motor Automatism, on the other hand, is a non-reflex movement of a voluntary muscle, executed
in the waking state but not controlled by the ordinary waking consciousness. Phenomena of this
kind play a large part in primitive ceremonies of divination (q.v.) and in our own day furnish
much of the material of Psychical Research. At the lowest level we have vague movements of
large groups of muscles, as in "bier-divination," where the murderer or his residence is inferred
from the actions of the bearers; of a similar character but combined with more specialized
action are many kinds of witch seeking. These more specialized actions are most typically seen
in the Divining Rod (q.v.; see also TABLE-TURNING), which indicates the presence of water and
is used among the uncivilized to trace criminals. At a higher stage still we have the delicate
movements necessary for Automatic Writing (q.v.) or Drawing. A parallel case to Automatic Writing
is the action of the speech centres, resulting in the production of all kinds of utterances
from trance speeches in the ordinary language of the speaker to mere unintelligible babblings.
An interesting form of speech automatism is known as Glossolalia; in the typical case of Helène
Smith, Th. Flournoy has shown that these utterances may reach a higher plane and form a real
language, which is, however, based on one already known to the speaker.

See Man (1904), No. 68; Folklore, xiii. 134; Myers in Proc. S.P.R. ix. 26, xii. 277, xv. 403;
Flournoy, Des Indes à la planète Mars and in Arch. de Psychologie; Myers, Human Personality.

(N. W. T.)

AUTOMATON (from [Greek: autos], self, and [Greek: maô], to seize), a self-moving machine, or
one in which the principle of motion is contained within the mechanism itself. According to
this description, clocks, watches and all machines of a similar kind, are automata, but the
word is generally applied to contrivances which simulate for a time the motions of animal life.
If the human figure and actions be represented, the automaton has sometimes been called specially
an androides. We have very early notices of the construction of automata, e.g. the tripods
of Vulcan, and the moving figures of Daedalus. In 400 B.C., Archytas of Tarentum is said to
have made a wooden pigeon that could fly, and during the middle ages numerous instances of
the construction of automata are recorded. Regiomontanus is said to have made of iron a fly,
which would flutter round the room and return to his hand, and also an eagle, which flew before
the emperor Maximilian when he was entering Nuremberg. Roger Bacon is said to have forged a
brazen head which spoke, and Albertus Magnus to have had an androides, which acted as doorkeeper,
and was broken to pieces by Aquinas. Of these, as of some later instances, e.g. the figure
constructed by Descartes and the automata exhibited by Dr Camus, not much is accurately known.
But in the 18th century, Jacques de Vaucanson, the celebrated mechanician, exhibited three
admirable figures,--the flute-player, the tambourine-player, and the duck, which was capable
of eating, drinking, and imitating exactly the natural voice of that fowl. The means by which
these results had been produced were clearly seen, and a great impulse was given to the construction
of similar figures. Knauss exhibited at Vienna an automaton which wrote; a father and son named
Droz constructed several ingenious mechanical figures which wrote and played music; Frederick
Kaufmann and Leonard Maelzel made automatic trumpeters who could play several marches. The
Swiss have always been celebrated for their mechanical ingenuity, and they construct most of
the curious toys, such as flying and singing birds, which are frequently met with in industrial
exhibitions. The greatest difficulty has generally been experienced in devising any mechanism
which shall successfully simulate the human voice (not to be compared with the gramophone,
which reproduces mechanically a real voice). No attempt has been thoroughly successful, though
many have been made. A figure exhibited by Fabermann of Vienna remains the best. Kempelen's
famous chess-player for many years astonished and puzzled Europe. This figure, however, was
no true automaton, although the mechanical contrivances for concealing the real performer and
giving effect to his desired movements were exceedingly ingenious. J. N. Maskelyne, in more
recent times (1875-1880), has been prominent in exhibiting his automata, Psycho (who played
cards) and Zoe (who drew pictures), at the Egyptian Hall, London, but the secret of these contrivances
was well kept. (See CONJURING.)

AUTOMORPHISM (from Gr. [Greek: autos], self, and [Greek: morphê], form), the conception and
interpretation of other people's habits and ideas on the analogy of one's own.

AUTONOMY (Gr. [Greek: autos], self, and [Greek: nomos], law), in general, freedom from external
restraint, self-government. The term is usually coupled with a qualifying adjective. Thus,
political autonomy is self-government in its widest sense, independence of all control from
without. Local autonomy is a freedom of self-government within a sphere marked out by some
superior authority; e.g. municipal corporations in England have their administrative powers
marked out for them by acts of parliament, and in so far as they govern themselves within these
limits exercise local autonomy. Administrative or constitutional autonomy, such as exists in
the British colonies, implies an extent of self-government which falls short only of complete
independence. The term is used loosely even in the case of e.g. religious bodies, individual
churches and other communities [v.03 p.0049] which enjoy a measure of self-government in certain
specified respects.

In philosophy, the term (with its antithesis "heteronomy") was applied by Kant to that aspect
of the rational will in which, qua rational, it is a law to itself, independently alike of
any external authority, of the results of experience and of the impulses of pleasure and pain.
In the sphere of morals, the ultimate and only authority which the mind can recognize is the
law which emerges from the pure moral consciousness. This is the only sense in which moral
freedom can be understood. (See ETHICS; KANT.) Though the term "autonomy" in its fullest sense
implies entire freedom from causal necessity, it can also be used even in determinist theories
for relative independence of particular conditions, theological or conventional.

AUTOPSY (Gr. [Greek: autos], self, and [Greek: opsis], sight, investigation), a personal examination,
specifically a post-mortem ("after death") examination of a dead body, to ascertain the cause
of death, &c. The term "necropsy" (Gr. [Greek: nekros], corpse) is sometimes used in this sense.
(See CORONER and MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE.)

AUTRAN, JOSEPH (1813-1877), French poet, was born at Marseilles on the 20th of June 1813. In
1832 he addressed an ode to Lamartine, who was then at Marseilles on his way to the East. The
elder poet persuaded the young man's father to allow him to follow his poetic bent, and Autran
remained from that time a faithful disciple of Lamartine. His best known work is La Mer (1835),
remodelled in 1852 as Les Poèmes de la mer. Ludibria ventis (1838) followed, and the success
of these two volumes gained for Autran the librarianship of his native town. His other most
important work is his Vie rurale (1856), a series of pictures of peasant life. The Algerian
campaigns inspired him with verses in honour of the common soldier. Milianah (1842) describes
the heroic defence of that town, and in the same vein is his Laboureurs et soldats (1854).
Among his other works are the Paroles de Salomon (1868), Épîtres rustiques (1861), Sonnets
capricieux, and a tragedy played with great success at the Odéon in 1848, La Fille d'Eschyle.
A definitive edition of his works was brought out between 1875 and 1881. He became a member
of the French Academy in 1868, and died at Marseilles on the 6th of March 1877.

AUTUN, a town of east-central France, capital of an arrondissement in the department of Saône-et-Loire,
62 m. S.W. of Dijon on the Paris-Lyon railway to Nevers. Pop. (1906) 11,927. Autun is pleasantly
situated on the slope of a hill at the foot of which runs the Arroux. Its former greatness
is attested by many Roman remains, the chief of which are two well-preserved stone gateways,
the Porte d' Arroux and the Porte St André, both pierced with four archways and surmounted
by arcades. There are also remains of the old ramparts and aqueducts, of a square tower called
the Temple of Janus, of a theatre and of an amphitheatre. A pyramid in the neighbouring village
of Couhard was probably a sepulchral monument. The chapel of St Nicolas (12th century) contains
many of the remains discovered at Autun. The cathedral of St Lazare, once the chapel attached
to the residence of the dukes of Burgundy, is in the highest part of the town. It belongs mainly
to the 12th century, but the Gothic central tower and the chapels were added in the 15th century
by Nicolas Rolin, chancellor of Burgundy, born at Autun. The chief artistic features of the
church are the group of the Last Judgment sculptured on the tympanum above the west door, and
the painting by Ingres representing the martyrdom of St Symphorien, which took place at Autun
in 179. In the cathedral square stands the fountain of St Lazare, a work of the Renaissance.
The hôtel Rolin, a house of the 15th century, contains the collections of the "Aeduan literary
and scientific society." The hôtel de ville, containing a museum of paintings, the law-court
and the theatre are modern buildings. Autun is the seat of a bishopric, of tribunals of first
instance and of commerce, and has an ecclesiastical seminary, a communal college and a cavalry
school. Among the industries of the town are the extraction of oil from the bituminous schist
obtained in the neighbourhood, leather manufacture, metal-founding, marble-working, and the
manufacture of machinery and furniture. Autun is the commercial centre for a large part of
the Morvan, and has considerable trade in timber and cattle.

Autun (Augustodunum) succeeded Bibracte as capital of the Aedui when Gaul was reorganized by
Augustus. Under the Romans, it was a flourishing town, covering double its present extent and
renowned for its schools of rhetoric. In the succeeding centuries its prosperity drew upon
it the attacks of the barbarians, the Saracens and the Normans. The counts of Autun in 880
became dukes of Burgundy, and the town was the residence of the latter till 1276. It was ravaged
by the English in 1379, and, in 1591, owing to its support of the League, had to sustain a
siege conducted by Marshal Jean d'Aumont, general of Henry IV.

See H. de Fontenay, Autun et ses monuments (Autun, 1889).

AUTUNITE, or CALCO-URANITE, a mineral which is one of the "uranium micas," differing from the
more commonly occurring torbernite (q.v.) or cupro-uranite in containing calcium in place of
copper. It is a hydrous uranium and calcium phosphate, Ca(UO2)2(PO4)2 + 8(or 12)H2O. Though
closely resembling the tetragonal torbernite in form, it crystallizes in the orthorhombic system
and is optically biaxial. The crystals have the shape of thin plates with very nearly square
outline (89° 17' instead of 90°). An important character is the perfect micaceous cleavage
parallel to the basal plane, on which plane the lustre is pearly. The colour is sulphur-yellow,
and this enables the mineral to be distinguished at a glance from the emerald-green torbernite.
Hardness 2-2½; specific gravity 3.05-3.19. Autunite is usually found with pitchblende and other
uranium minerals, or with ores of silver, tin and iron; it sometimes coats joint-planes in
gneiss and pegmatite. Falkenstein in Saxony, St Symphorien near Autun (hence the name of the
species), and St Day in Cornwall are well-known localities for this mineral.

(L. J. S.)

AUVERGNE, formerly a province of France, corresponding to the departments of Cantal and Puy-de-Dôme,
with the arrondissement of Brioude in Haute-Loire. It contains many mountains volcanic in origin
(Plomb du Cantal, Puy de Dôme, Mont Dore), fertile valleys such as that of Limagne, vast pasture-lands,
and numerous medicinal springs. Up to the present day the population retains strongly-marked
Celtic characteristics. In the time of Caesar the Arverni were a powerful confederation, the
Arvernian Vercingetorix being the most famous of the Gallic chieftains who fought against the
Romans. Under the empire Arvernia formed part of Prima Aquitania, and the district shared in
the fortunes of Aquitaine during the Merovingian and Carolingian periods. Auvergne was the
seat of a separate countship before the end of the 8th century; the first hereditary count
was William the Pious (886). By the marriage of Eleanor of Aquitaine with Henry Plantagenet,
the countship passed under the suzerainty of the kings of England, but at the same time it
was divided, William VII., called the Young (1145-1168), having been despoiled of a portion
of his domain by his uncle William VIII., called the Old, who was supported by Henry II. of
England, so that he only retained the region bounded by the Allier and the Coux. It is this
district that from the end of the 13th century was called the Dauphiné d'Auvergne. This family
quarrel occasioned the intervention of Philip Augustus, king of France, who succeeded in possessing
himself of a large part of the country, which was annexed to the royal domains under the name
of Terre d'Auvergne. As the price of his concurrence with the king in this matter, the bishop
of Clermont, Robert I. (1195-1227), was granted the lordship of the town of Clermont, which
subsequently became a countship. Such was the origin of the four great historic lordships of
Auvergne. The Terre d'Auvergne was first an appanage of Count Alphonse of Poitiers (1241-1271),
and in 1360 was erected into a duchy in the peerage of France (duché-pairie) by King John II.
in favour of his son John, through whose daughter the new title passed in 1416 to the house
of Bourbon. The last duke, the celebrated constable Charles of Bourbon, united the domains
of the Dauphiné to those of the [v.03 p.0050] duchy, but all were confiscated by the crown
in consequence of the sentence which punished the constable's treason in 1527. The countship,
however, had passed in 1422 to the house of La Tour, and was not annexed to the domain until
1615. The administration of the royal province of Auvergne was organized under Louis XIV. At
the time of the revolution it formed what was called a "government," with two divisions: Upper
Auvergne (Aurillac), and Lower Auvergne (Clermont).

BIBLIOGRAPHY.--Baluze, Histoire généalogique de la maison d'Auvergne (1708); André Imberdis,
Histoire générale de l'Auvergne (1867); J. B. M. Bielawski, Histoire de la comté d'Auvergne
et de sa capitale Vic-le-Comte (1868); B. Gonot, Catalogue des ouvrages imprimés et manuscrits
concernant l'Auvergne (1849). See further Chevalier, Répertoire des sources hist., Topobibliographie,
s.v.

AUXANOMETER (Gr. [Greek: auxanein], to increase, [Greek: metron], measure), an apparatus for
measuring increase or rate of growth in plants.

AUXENTIUS (fl. c. 370), of Cappadocia, an Arian theologian of some eminence (see ARIUS). When
Constantine deposed the orthodox bishops who resisted, Auxentius was installed into the seat
of Dionysius, bishop of Milan, and came to be regarded as the great opponent of the Nicene
doctrine in the West. So prominent did he become, that he was specially mentioned by name in
the condemnatory decree of the synod which Damasus, bishop of Rome, urged by Athanasius, convened
in defence of the Nicene doctrine (A.D. 369). When the orthodox emperor Valentinian ascended
the throne, Auxentius was left undisturbed in his diocese, but his theological doctrines were
publicly attacked by Hilary of Poitiers.

The chief source of information about him is the Liber contra Auxentium in the Benedictine
edition of the works of Hilary.

AUXERRE, a town of central France, capital of the department of Yonne, 38 m. S.S.E. of Sens
on the Paris-Lyon railway, between Laroche and Nevers. Pop. (1906) 16,971. It is situated on
the slopes and the summit of an eminence on the left bank of the Yonne, which is crossed by
two bridges leading to suburbs on the right bank. The town is irregularly built and its streets
are steep and narrow, but it is surrounded by wide tree-lined boulevards, which have replaced
the ancient fortifications, and has some fine churches. That of St Étienne, formerly the cathedral,
is a majestic Gothic building of the 13th to the 16th centuries. It is entered by three richly
sculptured portals, over the middle and largest of which is a rose window; over the north portal
rises a massive tower, but that which should surmount the south portal is unfinished. The lateral
entrances are sheltered by tympana and arches profusely decorated with statuettes. The plan
consists of a nave, with aisles and lateral chapels, transept and choir, with a deambulatory
at a slightly lower level. Beneath the choir, which is a fine example of early Gothic architecture,
extends a crypt of the 11th century with mural paintings of the 12th century. The church has
some fine stained glass and many pictures and other works of art. The ancient episcopal palace,
now used as prefecture, stands behind the cathedral; it preserves a Romanesque gallery of the
12th century. The church of St Eusèbe belongs to the 12th, 13th and 16th centuries. Of the
abbey church of St Germain, built in the 13th and 14th centuries, most of the nave has disappeared,
so that its imposing Romanesque tower stands apart from it; crypts of the 9th century contain
the tombs of bishops of Auxerre. The abbey was once fortified and a high wall and cylindrical
tower remain. The buildings (18th century) are partly occupied by a hospital and a training
college. The church of St Pierre, in the Renaissance style of the 16th and 17th centuries,
is conspicuous for the elaborate ornamentation of its west façade. The old law-court contains
the museum, with a collection of antiquities and paintings, and a library. In the middle of
the town is a gateway surmounted by a belfry, dating from the 15th century. Auxerre has statues
of Marshal Davout, J. B. J. Fourier and Paul Bert, the two latter natives of the town. The
town is the seat of a court of assizes and has tribunals of first instance and of commerce,
and a branch of the Bank of France. A lycée for girls, a communal college and training colleges
are among its educational establishments. Manufactures of ochre, of which there are quarries
in the vicinity, and of iron goods are carried on. The canal of Nivernais reaches as far as
Auxerre, which has a busy port and carries on boat-building. Trade is principally in the choice
wine of the surrounding vineyards, and in timber and coal.

Auxerre (Autessiodurum) became the seat of a bishop and a civitas in the 3rd century. Under
the Merovingian kings the abbey of St Germain, named after the 6th bishop, was founded, and
in the 9th century its schools had made the town a seat of learning. The bishopric was suppressed
in 1790.

The countship of Auxerre was granted by King Robert I. to his son-in-law Renaud, count of Nevers.
It remained in the house of Nevers until 1184, when it passed by marriage to that of Courtenay.
Other alliances transferred it successively to the families of Donzy, Châtillon, Bourbon and
Burgundy. Alice of Burgundy, countess of Auxerre, married John of Châlons (d. 1309), and several
counts of Auxerre belonging to the house of Châlons distinguished themselves in the wars against
the English during the 14th century. John II., count of Auxerre, was killed at the battle of
Crécy (1346), and his grandson, John IV., sold his countship to King Charles V. in 1370.

AUXILIARY (from Lat. auxilium, help), that which gives aid or support; the term is used in
grammar of a verb which completes the tense, mood or voice of another verb; in engineering,
e.g. of the low steam power used to supplement the sail-power in sailing ships, still occasionally
used in yachts, sealers or whalers; and in military use, of foreign or allied troops, more
properly of any troops not permanently maintained under arms. In the British army the term
"Auxiliary Forces" was employed formerly to include the Militia, the Imperial Yeomanry and
the Volunteers.

AUXIMUM (mod. Osimo), an ancient town in Picenum, situated on an isolated hill 8 m. from the
Adriatic, on the road from Ancona to Nuceria. It was selected by the Romans as a fortress to
protect their settlements in northern Picenum, and strongly fortified in 174 B.C. The walls
erected at that period, of large rectangular blocks of stone, still exist in great part. Auximum
became a colony at latest in 157 B.C. It often appears in the history of the civil wars, owing
to its strong position. Pompey was its patron, and intended that Caesar should find resistance
here in 49 B.C. It appears to have been a place of some importance in imperial times, as inscriptions
and the monuments of its forum (the present piazza) show. In the 6th century it is called by
Procopius the chief town of Picenum, Ancona being spoken of as its harbour.

(T. AS.)

AUXONNE, a town of eastern France, in the department of Côte d'Or, 19 m. E.S.E. of Dijon on
the Paris-Lyon railway to Belfort. Pop. (1906) 2766 (town); 6307 (commune). Auxonne is a quiet
town situated in a wide plain on the left bank of the Saône. It preserves remains of ramparts,
a stronghold of the 16th century flanked by cylindrical towers, and a sculptured gateway of
the 15th century. Vauban restored these works in the latter half of the 17th century, and built
the arsenal now used as a market. The church of Notre-Dame dates from the 14th century. Of
the two towers surmounting its triple porch only that to the south is finished. A lofty spire
rises above a third tower over the crossing. The hôtel de ville (15th century) and some houses
of the Renaissance period are also of architectural interest. A statue of Napoleon I. as a
sub-lieutenant commemorates his sojourns in the town from 1788 to 1791. Auxonne has a tribunal
of commerce and a communal college. Its industries are unimportant, but it has a large trade
in the vegetables produced by the numerous market gardens in the vicinity.

Auxonne, the name of which is derived from its position on the Saône (ad Sonam), was in the
middle ages chief place of a countship, which in the first half of the 13th century passed
to the dukes of Burgundy. The town received a charter in 1229 and derived some importance from
the mint which the dukes of Burgundy founded in it. It was invested by the allies in 1814,
and surrendered to an Austrian force in the following year.

AVA, the ancient capital of the Burman empire, now a subdivision of the Sagaing district in
the Sagaing division of Upper Burma. It is situated on the Irrawaddy on the opposite [v.03
p.0051] bank to Sagaing, with which it was amalgamated in 1889. Amarapura, another ancient
capital, lies 5 m. to the north-east of Ava, and Mandalay, the present capital, 6 m. to the
north. The classical name of Ava is Yadanapura, "the city of precious gems." It was founded
by Thadomin Pay[=a] in A.D. 1364 as successor to Pagan, and the religious buildings of Pagan
were to a certain extent reproduced here, although on nothing like the same scale as regards
either size or splendour. It remained the seat of government for about four centuries with
a succession of thirty kings. In 1782 a new capital, Amarapura, was founded by Bodaw Pay[=a],
but was deserted again in favour of Ava by King Baggidaw in 1823. On his deposition by King
Tharawaddi in 1837, the capital reverted to Amarapura; but finally in 1860 the last capital
of Mandalay was occupied by King Mind[=o]n. For picturesque beauty Ava is unequalled in Burma,
but it is now more like a park than the site of an old capital. Traces of the great council
chamber and various portions of the royal palace are still visible, but otherwise the secular
buildings are completely destroyed; and most of the religious edifices are also dilapidated.

AVAD[=A]NA, the name given to a type of Buddhist romance literature represented by a large
number of Sanskrit (Nepalese) collections, of which the chief are the Avad[=a]nasataka (Century
of Legends), and the Divy[=a]vad[=a]na (The Heavenly Legend). Though of later date than most
of the canonical Buddhist books, they are held in veneration by the orthodox, and occupy much
the same position with regard to Buddhism that the Pur[=a]nas do towards Brahminism.

AVAHI, the native name of a Malagasy lemur (Avahis laniger) nearly allied to the indri (q.v.),
and the smallest representative of the subfamily Indrisinae, characterized by its woolly coat,
and measuring about 28 in. in length, of which rather more than half is accounted for by the
tail. Unlike the other members of the group, the avahi is nocturnal, and does not associate
in small troops, but is met with either alone or in pairs. Very slow in its movements, it rarely
descends to the ground, but, when it does, walks upright like the other members of the group.
It is found throughout the forests which clothe the mountains on the east coast of Madagascar,
and also in a limited district on the northwest coast, the specimens from the latter locality
being of smaller size and rather different in colour. The eastern phase is generally rusty
red above, with the inner sides of the limbs white; while the predominant hue in the western
form is usually yellowish brown. (See PRIMATES.)

(R. L.*)

AVALANCHE (adopted from a French dialectic form, avalance, descent), a mass of snow and ice
mingled with earth and stones, which rushes down a mountain side, carrying everything before
it, and producing a strong wind which uproots trees on each side of its course. Where the supply
of snow exceeds the loss by evaporation the surplus descends the mountain sides, slowly in
the form of glaciers, or suddenly in ice-falls or in avalanches. A mass of snow may accumulate
upon a steep slope and become compacted into ice by pressure, or remain loosely aggregated.
When the foundation gives way, owing to the loosening effect of spring rains or from any other
cause, the whole mass slides downward. A very small cause will sometimes set a mass of overloaded
snow in motion. Thunder or even a loud shout is said to produce this effect when the mass is
just poised, and Swiss guides often enjoin absolute silence when crossing dangerous spots.

AVALLON, a town of central France, capital of an arrondissement in the department of Yonne,
34 m. S.S.E. of Auxerre on a branch of the Paris-Lyon railway. Pop. (1906) 5197. The town,
with wide streets and picturesque promenades, is finely situated on a promontory, the base
of which is washed on the south by the Cousin, on the east and west by small streams. Its chief
building, the church of St Lazare, dates from the 12th century. The two western portals are
adorned with sculpture in the ornate Romanesque style; the tower on the left of the façade
was rebuilt in the 17th century. The Tour de L'Horloge, pierced by a gateway through which
passes the Grande Rue, is a 15th century structure containing a museum on its second floor.
Remains of the ancient fortifications, including seven of the flanking towers, are still to
be seen. Avallon has a statue of Vauban, the military engineer. The public institutions include
the subprefecture, a tribunal of first instance, and a communal college. The manufacture of
biscuits and gingerbread, and of leather and farm implements is carried on, and there is considerable
traffic in wood, wine, and the live-stock and agricultural produce of the surrounding country.

Avallon (Aballo) was in the middle ages the seat of a viscounty dependent on the duchy of Burgundy,
and on the death of Charles the Bold passed under the royal authority.

AVALON (also written AVALLON, AVOLLON, AVILION and AVELION), in Welsh mythology the kingdom
of the dead, afterwards an earthly paradise in the western seas, and finally, in the Arthurian
romances, the abode of heroes to which King Arthur was conveyed after his last battle. In Welsh
the name is Ynys yr Afallon, usually interpreted "Isle of Apples," but possibly connected with
the Celtic tradition of a king over the dead named Avalloc (in Welsh Afallach). If the traditional
derivation is correct, the name is derived from the Welsh afal, an apple, and, as no other
large fruit was well known to the races of northern Europe, is probably intended to symbolize
the feasting and enjoyments of elysium. Other forms of the name are Ynysvitrin and Ynysgutrin,
"Isle of Glass"--which appear to be identical with Glasberg, the Teutonic kingdom of the dead.
Perhaps owing to a confusion between Glasberg or Ynysvitrin and the Anglo-Saxon Glaestinga-burh,
Glastonbury, the name "Isle of Avalon" was given to the low ridge in central Somersetshire
which culminates in Glastonbury Tor, while Glastonbury itself came to be called Avalon. Attempts
have also been made to identify Avalon with other places in England and Wales.

See Studies in the Arthurian Legend, by J. Rhys (Oxford, 1891); also ARTHUR (KING); ATLANTIS.

AVARAY, a French territorial title belonging to a family some of whose members have been conspicuous
in history. The Béarnaise family named Bésiade moved into the province of Orléanais in the
17th century, and there acquired the estate of Avaray. In 1667 Théophile de Bésiade, marquis
d'Avaray, obtained the office of grand bailiff of Orleans, which was held by several of his
descendants after him. Claude Antoine de Bésiade, marquis d'Avaray, was deputy for the bailliage
of Orleans in the states-general of 1789, and proposed a Declaration of the Duties of Man as
a pendant to the Declaration of the Rights of Man; he subsequently became a lieutenant-general
in 1814, a peer of France in 1815, and duc d'Avaray in 1818. Antoine Louis François, comte
d'Avaray, son of the above, distinguished himself during the Revolution by his devotion to
the comte de Provence, afterwards Louis XVIII., whose emigration he assisted. Having nominally
become king in 1799, that prince created the estate of Ile-Jourdain a duchy, under the title
of Avaray, in favour of the comte d'Avaray, whom he termed his "liberator."

(M. P.*)

AVARS, or AVARI, an East Caucasian people, the most renowned of the Lesghian tribes, inhabiting
central Daghestan (see LESGHIANS). They are the only Lesghian tribe who possess a written language,
for which they make use of the Arabic characters. They are often confused with the Avars whose
empire on the Danube was broken by Charlemagne; but Komarov asserts that they are of more recent
origin as a tribe, their name being Lowland Turki for "vagrant" or "refugee."

AVATAR, a Sanskrit word meaning "descent," specially used in Hindu mythology (and so in English)
to express the incarnation of a deity visiting the earth for any purpose. The ten Avatars of
Vishnu are the most famous. The Hindus believe he has appeared (1) as a fish, (2) as a tortoise,
(3) as a hog, (4) as a monster, half man half lion, to destroy the giant Iranian, (5) as a
dwarf, (6) as R[=a]ma, (7) again as R[=a]ma for the purpose of killing the thousand-armed giant
Cartasuciriargunan, (8) as Krishna, (9) as Buddha. They allege that the tenth Avatar has yet
to occur and will be in the form of a white-winged horse (Kalki) who will destroy the earth.

AVEBURY, JOHN LUBBOCK, 1ST BARON (1834- ), English banker, politician and naturalist, was born
in London [v.03 p.0052] on the 30th of April 1834, the son of Sir John William Lubbock, 3rd
baronet, himself a highly distinguished man of science. John Lubbock was sent to Eton in 1845;
but three years later was taken into his father's bank, and became a partner at twenty-two.
In 1865 he succeeded to the baronetcy. His love of science kept pace with his increasing participation
in public affairs. He served on commissions upon coinage and other financial questions; and
at the same time acted as president of the Entomological Society and of the Anthropological
Institute. Early in his career several banking reforms of great importance were due to his
initiative, while such works as Prehistoric Times (1865) and The Origin of Civilization (1870)
were proceeding from his pen. In 1870, and again in 1874, he was elected a member of parliament
for Maidstone. He lost the seat at the election of 1880; but was at once elected member for
London University, of which he had been vice-chancellor since 1872. He carried numerous enactments
in parliament, including the Bank Holidays Act 1871, and bills dealing with absconding debtors,
shop hours regulations, public libraries, open spaces, and the preservation of ancient monuments,
and he proved himself an indefatigable and influential member of the Unionist party. A prominent
supporter of the Statistical Society, he took an active part in criticizing the encroachment
of municipal trading and the increase of the municipal debt. He was elected the first president
of the Institute of Bankers in 1879; in 1881 he was president of the British Association, and
from 1881 to 1886 president of the Linnaean Society. He received honorary degrees from the
universities of Oxford, Cambridge (where he was Rede lecturer in 1886), Edinburgh, Dublin and
Würzburg; and in 1878 was appointed a trustee of the British Museum. From 1888 to 1892 he was
president of the London Chamber of Commerce; from 1889 to 1890 vice-chairman and from 1890
to 1892 chairman of the London County Council. During the same period he served on royal commissions
on education and on gold and silver. In 1890 he was appointed a privy councillor; and was chairman
of the committee of design on the new coinage in 1891. In 1900 he was raised to the peerage,
under the title of Baron Avebury, and he continued to play a leading part in public life, not
only by the weight of his authority on many subjects, but by the readiness with which he lent
his support to movements for the public benefit. Among other matters he was a prominent advocate
of proportional representation. As an original author and a thoughtful popularizer of natural
history and philosophy he had few rivals in his day, as is evidenced by the number of editions
issued of many of his writings, among which the most widely-read have been: The Origin and
Metamorphoses of Insects (1873), British Wild Flowers (1875), Ants, Bees and Wasps (1882),
Flowers, Fruit and Leaves (1886), The Pleasures of Life (1887), The Senses, Instincts and Intelligence
of Animals (1888), The Beauties of Nature (1892), The Use of Life (1894).

AVEBURY, a village in the Devizes parliamentary division of Wiltshire, England, on the river
Kennet, 8 m. by road from Marlborough. The fine church of St James contains an early font with
Norman carving, a rich Norman doorway, a painted reredos, and a beautiful old roodstone in
good preservation. Avebury House is Elizabethan, with a curious stone dovecot. The village
has encroached upon the remains of a huge stone circle (not quite circular), surrounded by
a ditch and rampart of earth, and once approached by two avenues of monoliths. Within the larger
circle were two smaller ones, placed not in the axis of the great one but on its north-eastern
side, each of which consisted of a double concentric ring of stones; the centre being in one
case a menhir or pillar, in the other a dolmen or tablestone resting on two uprights. Few traces
remain, as the monoliths have been largely broken up for building purposes. The circle is the
largest specimen of primitive stone monuments in Britain, measuring on the average 1200 ft.
in diameter. The stones are all the native Sarsens which occur everywhere in the district,
and show no evidence of having been hewn. Those still remaining vary in size from 5 to 20 ft.
in height above ground, and from 3 to 12 ft. in breadth. As in the case of Stonehenge, the
purpose for which the Avebury monument was erected has been the source of much difference of
opinion among antiquaries, Dr Stukely (Stonehenge a Temple restored to the British Druids,
1740) regarding it as a Druidical temple, while Fergusson (Rude Stone Monuments, 1872) believed
that it, as well as Silbury Hill, marks the site of the graves of those who fell in the last
Arthurian battle at Badon Hill (A.D. 520). The majority of antiquaries, however, see no reason
for dissociating its chronological horizon from that of the numerous other analogous monuments
found in Great Britain, many of which have been shown to be burial places of the Bronze Age.
Excavations were carried out here in 1908, but without throwing any important new light on
the monument.

There are many barrows on the neighbouring downs, besides traces of a double oval of monoliths
on Hackpen hill, and the huge mound of Silbury Hill. Waden Hill, to the south, has been, like
Badbury, identified with Badon Hill, which was the traditional scene of the twelfth and last
great battle of King Arthur in 520. The Roman road from Winchester to Bath skirts the south
side of Silbury Hill.

At the time of the Domesday Survey, the church of Avebury (Avreberie, Abury), with two hides
attached, was held in chief by Rainbold, a priest, and was bestowed by Henry III. on the abbot
and monks of Cirencester, who continued to hold it until the reign of Henry VIII. The manor
of Avebury was granted in the reign of Henry I. to the Benedictine monks of St George of Boucherville
in Normandy, and a cell from that abbey was subsequently established here. In consequence of
the war with France in the reign of Edward III., this manor was annexed by the crown, and was
conferred on the newly founded college of New College, Oxford, together with all the possessions,
spiritual and temporal, of the priory.

AVEIA, an ancient town of the Vestini, on the Via Claudia Nova, 6 m. S.E. of Aquila, N.E. of
the modern village of Fossa. Some remains of ancient buildings still exist, and the name Aveia
still clings to the place. The identification was first made by V. M. Giovenazzi, Della Città
di Aveia ne' Vestini (Rome, 1773). Paintings in the church of S. Maria ad Cryptas, of the 12th
to 15th centuries, are important in the history of art. An inscription of a stationarius of
the 3rd century, sent here on special duty (no doubt for the suppression of brigandage), was
found here in 1902 (A. von Domaszewski, Röm. Mitt., 1902, 330).

AVEIRO, a seaport, episcopal see, and the capital of an administrative district, formerly included
in the province of Beira, Portugal; on the river Vouga, and the Lisbon-Oporto railway. Pop.
(1900) 9979. Aveiro is built on the southern shore of a marshy lagoon, containing many small
islands, and measuring about 15 m. from north to south, with an average breadth of about 1
m. The Barra Nova, an artificial canal about 33 ft. deep, was constructed between 1801 and
1808, and gives access to the Atlantic ocean. The local industries include the preparation
of sea-salt, the catching and curing of fish, especially sardines and oysters, and the gathering
of aquatic plants (moliço). There is also a brisk trade in wine, oil and fruit; while the Aveiro
district contains copper and lead mines, besides much good pasture-land.

Aveiro is probably the Roman Talabriga. In the 16th century it was the birthplace of João Affonso,
one of the first navigators to visit the fishing-grounds of Newfoundland; and it soon became
famous for its fleet of more than sixty vessels, which sailed yearly to that country, and returned
laden with dried codfish. During the same century the cathedral was built, and the city was
made a duchy. The title "duke of Aveiro" became extinct when its last holder, Dom José Mascarenhas
e Lancaster, was burned alive for high treason, in 1759. The administrative district of Aveiro
coincides with the north-western part of the province of Beira; pop. (1900) 303,169; area,
1065 sq. m.

AVELLA (anc. Abella), a city of Campania, Italy, in the province of Avellino, 23 m. N.E. of
Naples by rail. Pop. (1901) 4107. It is finely situated in fertile territory and its nuts (nuces
Abellanae) and fruit were renowned in Roman days. About 2 m. to the north-east lies Avella
Vecchia, the ancient Abella, regarded [v.03 p.0053] by the ancients as a Chalcidian colony.
An important Oscan inscription relates to a treaty with Nola, regarding a joint temple of Hercules,
attributable to the 2nd century B.C. Under the early empire it had already become a colony
and had perhaps been one since the time of Sulla. It has remains of the walls of the citadel
and of an amphitheatre, and lay on the road from Nola to Abellinum, which was here perhaps
joined by a branch from Suessula.

See J. Beloch, Campanien (2nd ed., Breslau, 1890), 411 seq.

(T. AS.)

AVELLINO, a city and episcopal see of Campania, Italy, the capital of the province of Avellino,
1150 ft. above sea-level, 28 m. direct and 59 m. by rail E.N.E. of Naples, at the foot of Monte
Vergine. Pop. (1901) 23,760. There are ruins of the castle constructed in the 9th or 10th century,
in which the antipope Anacletus II. crowned Count Roger II. king of Sicily and Apulia. Avellino
is the junction of lines to Benevento and Rocchetta S. Antonio. The name is derived from the
ancient Abellinum, the ruins of which lie 2½ m. north-east, close to the village of Atripalda,
and consist of remains of city walls and an amphitheatre in opus reticulatum, i.e. of the early
imperial period, when Abellinum appears to have been the chief place of a tribe, to which belonged
also the independent communities of the Abellinates cognomine Protropi among the Hirpini, and
the Abellinates cognominati Marsi among the Apulians (Nissen, Italische Landeskunde, ii. 822).
It lay on the boundary of Campania and the territory of the Hirpini, at the junction of the
roads from Nola (and perhaps also from Suessula) and Salernum to Beneventum.

The Monte Vergine (4165 ft.) lies 4 m. to the N.W. of Avellino; upon the summit is a sanctuary
of the Virgin, founded in 1119, which contains a miraculous picture attributed to S. Luke (the
greatest festival is on the 8th of September). The present church is baroque in style, but
contains some works of art of earlier periods. The important archives have been transported
to Naples.

(T. AS.)

AVEMPACE [Abu Bakr Mu[h.]ammad ibn Ya[h.]ya, known as Ibn B[=a]jja or Ibn [S.]a`igh, i.e. son
of the goldsmith, the name being corrupted by the Latins into Avempace, Avenpace or Aben Pace],
the earliest and one of the most distinguished of the Arab philosophers of Spain. Little is
known of the details of his life. He was born probably at Saragossa towards the close of the
11th century. According to Ibn Kh[=a]q[=a]n, a contemporary writer, he became a student of
the exact sciences and was also a musician and a poet. But he was a philosopher as well, and
apparently a sceptic. He is said to have rejected the Koran, to have denied the return to God,
and to have regarded death as the end of existence. But even in that orthodox age he became
vizier to the amir of Murcia. Afterwards he went to Valencia, then to Saragossa. After the
fall of Saragossa (1119) he went to Seville, then to Xativa, where he is said to have returned
to Islam to save his life. Finally he retired to the Almoravid court at Fez, where he was poisoned
in 1138. Ibn `Usaibi`a gives a list of twenty-five of his works, but few of these remain. He
had a distinct influence upon Averroes (see ARABIAN PHILOSOPHY).

For his life see McG. de Slane's trans. of Ibn Khallik[=a]n's Biographical Dictionary (Paris
and London, 1842), vol. iii. pp. 130 ff., and Ibn `Usaibi`a's biography translated in P. de
Gayangos' edition of the History of the Mohammedan Dynasties in Spain, by al-Maqqari (London,
1840), vol. ii., appendix, p. xii. List of extant works in C. Brockelmann's Geschichte der
arabischen Litteratur, vol. i. p. 460. For his philosophy cf. T. J. de Boer's The History of
Philosophy in Isl[=a]m (London, 1903), ch. vi.

(G. W. T.)

AVENARIUS, RICHARD HEINRICH LUDWIG (1843-1896), German philosopher, was born in Paris on the
19th of November 1843. His education, begun in Zürich and Berlin, was completed at the university
of Leipzig, where he graduated in 1876. In 1877 he became professor of philosophy in Zürich,
where he died on the 18th of August 1896. At Leipzig he was one of the founders of the Akademisch-philosophische
Verein, and was the first editor of the Vierteljahrsschrift für wissenschaftliche Philosophie.
In 1868 he published an essay on the Pantheism of Spinoza. His chief works are Philosophie
als Denken der Welt gemäss dem Princip des kleinsten Kraftmasses (1876) and the Kritik der
reinen Erfahrung (1888-1890). In these works he made an attempt to co-ordinate thought and
action. Like Mach, he started from the principle of economy of thinking, and in the Kritik
endeavoured to explain pure experience in relation to knowledge and environment. He discovers
that statements dependent upon environment constitute pure experience. This philosophy, called
Empirio-criticism, is not, however, a realistic but an idealistic dualism, nor can it be called
materialism.

See Wundt, Philos. Stud. xiii. (1897); Carstanjen and Willy in Zeitsch. f. wiss. Philos. xx.
(1896), 361 ff.; xx. 57 ff.; xxii. 53 ff.; J. Petzoldt's Einführung in d. Philos. d. reinen
Erfahrung (1900).

AVENGER OF BLOOD, the person, usually the nearest kinsman of the murdered man, whose duty it
was to avenge his death by killing the murderer. In primitive societies, before the evolution
of settled government, or the uprise of a systematized criminal law, crimes of violence were
regarded as injuries of a personal character to be punished by the sufferer or his kinsfolk.
This right of vengeance was common to most countries, and in many was the subject of strict
regulations and limitations. It was prevented from running into excesses by the law of sanctuary
(q.v.) and in many lands the institution of blood-money, and the wergild offered the wrong-doer
a mode of escaping from his enemies' revenge. The Mosaic law recognized the right of vengeance,
but not the money-compensation. The Koran, on the contrary, while sanctioning the vengeance,
also permits pecuniary commutation for murder.

AVENGERS, or VENDICATORI, a secret society formed about 1186 in Sicily to avenge popular wrongs.
The society was finally suppressed by King William II., the Norman, who hanged the grand master
and branded the members with hot irons.

AVENTAIL, or AVANTAILLE (O. Fr. esventail, presumably from a Latin word exventaculum, air-hole),
the mouthpiece of an old-fashioned helmet, movable to admit the air.

AVENTINUS (1477-1534), the name taken by JOHANN TURMAIR, author of the Annales Boiorum, or
Annals of Bavaria, from Aventinum, the Latin name of the town of Abensberg, where he was born
on the 4th of July 1477. Having studied at Ingolstadt, Vienna, Cracow and Paris, he returned
to Ingolstadt in 1507, and in 1509 was appointed tutor to Louis and Ernest, the two younger
sons of Albert the Wise, the late duke of Bavaria-Munich. He retained this position until 1517,
wrote a Latin grammar, and other manuals for the use of his pupils, and in 1515 travelled in
Italy with Ernest. Encouraged by William IV., duke of Bavaria, he began to write the Annales
Boiorum, about 1517, and finishing this book in 1521, undertook a German version of it, entitled
Bayersche Chronik, which he completed some years later. He assisted to found the Sodalitas
litteraria Angilostadensis, under the auspices of which several old manuscripts were brought
to light. Although Aventinus did not definitely adopt the reformed faith, he sympathized with
the reformers and their teaching, and showed a strong dislike for the monks. On this account
he.was imprisoned in 1528, but his friends soon effected his release. The remainder of his
life was somewhat unsettled, and he died at Regensburg on the 9th of January 1534. The Annales,
which are in seven books, deal with the history of Bavaria in conjunction with general history
from the earliest times to 1460, and the author shows a strong sympathy for the Empire in its
struggle with the Papacy. He took immense pains with his work, and to some degree anticipated
the modern scientific method of writing history. The Annales were first published in 1554,
but many important passages were omitted in this edition, as they reflected on the Roman Catholics.
A more complete edition was published at Basel in 1580 by Nicholas Cisner. Aventinus, who has
been called the "Bavarian Herodotus," wrote other books of minor importance, and a complete
edition of his works was published at Munich (1881-1886). More recently a new edition (six
vols.) has appeared.

See T. Wiedemann, Johann Turmair gen. Aventinus (Freising, 1858); W. Dittmar, Aventin (Nördlingen,
1862); J. von Döllinger, Aventin und seine Zeit (Munich, 1877); S. Riezler, Zum Schutze der
neuesten Edition von Aventins Annalen (Munich, 1886); F. X. von Wegele, Aventin (Bamberg, 1890).

[v.03 p.0054] AVENTURINE, or AVANTURINE, a variety of quartz containing spangles of mica or
scales of iron-oxide, which confer brilliancy on the stone. It is found chiefly in the Ural
Mountains, and is cut for ornamental purposes at Ekaterinburg. Some of the Siberian aventurine,
like that of the vase given by Nicholas I. to Sir R. Murchison, in 1843, is a micaceous iron-stained
quartz, of but little beauty. Most aventurine is of reddish brown or yellow colour, but a green
variety, containing scales of fuchsite or chrome-mica, is also known. This green aventurine,
highly valued by the Chinese, is said to occur in the Bellary district in India.

Aventurine felspar, known also as Sun-stone (q.v.) is found principally at Tvedestrand in south
Norway, and is a variety of oligoclase enclosing micaceous scales of haematite. Other kinds
of felspar, even orthoclase, may however also show the aventurine appearance. Both plagioclastic
and orthoclastic aventurine occur at several localities in the United States.

The mineral aventurine takes its name from the well-known aventurine-glass of Venice. This
is a reddish brown glass with gold-like spangles, more brilliant than most of the natural stone.
The story runs that this kind of glass was originally made accidentally at Murano by a workman,
who let some copper filings fall into the molten "metal," whence the product was called avventurino.
From the Murano glass the name passed to the mineral, which displayed a rather similar appearance.

(F. W. R.*)

AVENUE (the past participle feminine of Fr. avenir, to come to), a way of approach; more particularly,
the chief entrance-road to a country house, with rows of trees on each side; the trees themselves
are said to form the avenue. In modern times the word has been much used as a name for streets
in towns, whether with or without trees, such as Fifth Avenue in New York, or Shaftesbury Avenue
in London.

AVENZOAR, or ABUMERON [Ab[=u] Merw[=a]n `Abdal-Malik ibn Zuhr], Arabian physician, who flourished
at the beginning of the 12th century, was born at Seville, where he exercised his profession
with great reputation. His ancestors had been celebrated as physicians for several generations,
and his son was afterwards held by the Arabians to be even more eminent in his profession than
Avenzoar himself. He was a contemporary of Averroes, who, according to Leo Africanus, heard
his lectures, and learned physic of him. He belonged, in many respects, to the Dogmatists or
Rational School, rather than to the Empirics. He was a great admirer of Galen; and in his writings
he protests emphatically against quackery and the superstitious remedies of the astrologers.
He shows no inconsiderable knowledge of anatomy in his remarkable description of inflammation
and abscess of the mediastinum in his own person, and its diagnosis from common pleuritis as
well as from abscess and dropsy of the pericardium. In cases of obstruction or of palsy of
the gullet, his three modes of treatment are ingenious. He proposes to support the strength
by placing the patient in a tepid bath of nutritious liquids, that might enter by cutaneous
imbibition, but does not recommend this. He speaks more favourably of the introduction of food
into the stomach by a silver tube; and he strongly recommends the use of nutritive enemata.
From his writings it would appear that the offices of physician, surgeon and apothecary were
already considered as distinct professions. He wrote a book entitled The Method of Preparing
Medicines and Diet, which was translated into Hebrew in the year 1280, and thence into Latin
by Paravicius, whose version, first printed at Venice, 1490, has passed through several editions.

AVERAGE, a term found in two main senses. (1) The first, which occurs in old law, is from a
Law-Latin averagium, and is connected with the Domesday Book avera, the "day's work which the
king's tenants gave to the sheriff"; it is supposed to be a form of the O. Fr. ovre (oeuvre),
work, affected by aver, the O. Eng. word for cattle or property, but the etymology is uncertain.
As meaning some form of feudal service rendered by tenants to their superiors, it survived
for a long time in the Scottish phrase "arriage and carriage," this form of the word being
due to a contraction into "arage." (2) The second word, which represents the modern usages,
is also uncertain in its derivation, but corresponded with the Fr. avarie, and was early spelt
"averays," recurring also as "avaria," "averia," and meaning a certain tax on goods, and then
more precisely in maritime law any charge additional to "freight" (see AFFREIGHTMENT), payable
by the owner of goods sent by ship. Hence the modern employment of the term for particular
and general average (see below) in marine insurance. The essential of equitable distribution,
involved in this sense, was transferred to give the word "average" its more colloquial meaning
of an equalization of amount, or medium among various quantities, or nearest common rate or
figure. (For a discussion of the etymology, see the New English Dictionary, especially the
concluding note with reference to authorities.)

In Shipping.--Average, in modern law, is the term used in maritime commerce to signify damages
or expenses resulting from the accidents of navigation. Average is either general or particular.
General average arises when sacrifices have been made, or expenditures incurred, for the preservation
of the ship, cargo and freight, from some peril of the sea or from its effects. It implies
a subsequent contribution, from all the parties concerned, rateably to the values of their
respective interests, to make good the loss thus occasioned. Particular average signifies the
damage or partial loss happening to the ship, goods, or freight by some fortuitous or unavoidable
accident. It is borne by the parties to whose property the misfortune happens or by their insurers.
The term average originally meant what is now distinguished as general average; and the expression
"particular average," although not strictly accurate, came to be afterwards used for the convenience
of distinguishing those damages or partial losses for which no general contribution could be
claimed.

Although nothing can be more simple than the fundamental principle of general average, that
a loss incurred for the advantage of all the coadventurers should be made good by them all
in equitable proportion to their stakes in the adventure, the application of this principle
to the varied and complicated cases which occur in the course of maritime commerce has given
rise to many diversities of usage at different periods and in different countries. It is soon
discovered that the principle cannot be applied in any settled or consistent manner unless
by the aid of rules of a technical and sometimes of a seemingly arbitrary character. The difficulty,
which at one time seemed nearly insuperable, of bringing together the rules in force in the
several maritime countries, has been to a large extent overcome--not by legislation but by
framing a set of rules covering the principal points of difference in such a manner as to satisfy,
on the whole, those who are practically concerned, and to lead them to adopt these [Sidenote:
History of the York-Antwerp rules.] rules in their contracts of affreightment and contracts
of insurance (see INSURANCE: Marine). The honour of the achievement belongs to a small number
of men who recognized the need of uniformity. The work began in May 1860 at the congress held
at Glasgow, under the presidency of Lord Brougham, assisted by Lord Neaves. Further congresses
were held in London (1862), and at York (1864), when a body of rules known as the "York Rules"
was agreed to. There the matter stood, until it was taken up by the "Association for the Reform
and Codification of the Law of Nations" at conferences held at the Hague (1875), Bremen (1876)
and Antwerp (1877). Some changes were made in the "York Rules"; and so altered, the body of
rules was adopted at the last-named conference, and was styled the "York and Antwerp (or York-Antwerp)
Rules." The value of these rules was quickly perceived, and practical use of them followed.
But they proved to be insufficient, or unsatisfactory, on some points; and again, in the autumn
of 1890, a conference on the subject was held, this time at Liverpool, by the same Association,
under the able presidency of Dr F. Sieveking, president of the Hanseatic High Court of Appeal
at Hamburg. Important changes were then made, carrying further certain departures from English
law, already apparent in the earlier rules, in favour of views prevailing upon the continent
of Europe and in the United States. The new rules were styled the [v.03 p.0055] York-Antwerp
Rules 1890. In practice they quickly displaced those of 1877; and in 1892, at a conference
of the same Association held at Genoa, it was formally declared that the only international
rules of general average having the sanction and authority of the association were the York-Antwerp
Rules as revised in 1890, and that the original rules were rescinded. It is this later body
of rules which is now known as the York-Antwerp Rules. Reference is now to be found in most
English contracts of carriage and contracts of insurance, to these rules, as intended to govern
the adjustment of G.A. between the parties; with the result that (so far as the rules cover
the ground) adjustments do not depend upon the law of the place of destination, and so do not
vary according to the destination, or the place at which the voyage may happen to be broken
up, as used formerly to be the case.

The rules are as follows:--

RULE I.--JETTISON OF DECK CARGO

No jettison of deck cargo shall be made good as G.A.

Every structure not built in with the frame of the vessel shall be considered to be a part
of the deck of the vessel.

RULE II.--DAMAGE BY JETTISON AND SACRIFICE FOR THE COMMON SAFETY

Damage done to a ship and cargo, or either of them, by or in consequence of a sacrifice made
for the common safety, and by water which goes down a ship's hatches opened, or other opening
made for the purpose of making a jettison for the common safety, shall be made good as G.A.

RULE III.--EXTINGUISHING FIRE ON SHIPBOARD

Damage done to a ship and cargo, or either of them, by water or otherwise, including damage
by beaching or scuttling a burning ship, in extinguishing a fire on board the ship, shall be
made good as G.A.; except that no compensation shall be made for damage to such portions of
the ship and bulk cargo, or to such separate packages of cargo, as have been on fire.

RULE IV.--CUTTING AWAY WRECK

Loss or damage caused by cutting away the wreck or remains of spars, or of other things which
have previously been carried away by sea-peril, shall not be made good as G.A.

RULE V.--VOLUNTARY STRANDING

When a ship is intentionally run on shore, and the circumstances are such that if that course
were not adopted she would inevitably sink, or drive on shore or on rocks, no loss or damage
caused to the ship, cargo and freight, or any of them, by such intentional running on shore,
shall be made good as G.A. But in all other cases where a ship is intentionally run on shore
for the common safety, the consequent loss or damage shall be allowed as G.A.

RULE VI.--CARRYING PRESS OF SAIL--DAMAGE TO OR LOSS OF SAILS

Damage to or loss of sails and spars, or either of them, caused by forcing a ship off the ground
or by driving her higher up the ground, for the common safety, shall be made good as G.A.;
but where a ship is afloat, no loss or damage caused to the ship, cargo and freight, or any
of them, by carrying a press of sail, shall be made good as G.A.

RULE VII.--DAMAGE TO ENGINES IN REFLOATING A SHIP

Damage caused to machinery and boilers of a ship which is ashore and in a position of peril,
in endeavouring to refloat, shall be allowed in G.A., when shown to have arisen from an actual
intention to float the ship for the common safety at the risk of such damage.

RULE VIII.--EXPENSES OF LIGHTENING A SHIP WHEN ASHORE, AND CONSEQUENT DAMAGE

When a ship is ashore, and, in order to float her, cargo, bunker coals and ship's stores, or
any of them, are discharged, the extra cost of lightening, lighter hire, and reshipping (if
incurred), and the loss or damage sustained thereby, shall be admitted as G.A.

RULE IX.--CARGO, SHIP'S MATERIALS, AND STORES BURNT FOR FUEL

Cargo, ship's materials and stores, or any of them, necessarily burnt for fuel for the common
safety at a time of peril, shall be admitted as G.A., when and only when an ample supply of
fuel had been provided; but the estimated quantity of coals that would have been consumed,
calculated at the price current at the ship's last port of departure at the date of her leaving,
shall be charged to the shipowner and credited to the G.A.

RULE X.--EXPENSES AT PORT OF REFUGE, &c.

(a) When a ship shall have entered a port or place of refuge, or shall have returned to her
port or place of loading, in consequence of accident, sacrifice, or other extraordinary circumstances,
which render that necessary for the common safety, the expenses of entering such port or place
shall be admitted as G.A.; and when she shall have sailed thence with her original cargo, or
a part of it, the corresponding expenses of leaving such port or place, consequent upon such
entry or return, shall likewise be admitted as G.A.

(b) The cost of discharging cargo from a ship, whether at a port or place of loading, call
or refuge, shall be admitted as G.A., when the discharge was necessary for the common safety
or to enable damage to the ship, caused by sacrifice or accident during the voyage, to be repaired,
if the repairs were necessary for the safe prosecution of the voyage.

(c) Whenever the cost of discharging cargo from a ship is admissible as G.A., the cost of reloading
and storing such cargo on board the said ship, together with all storage charges on such cargo,
shall likewise be so admitted. But when the ship is condemned or does not proceed on her original
voyage, no storage expenses incurred after the date of the ship's condemnation or of the abandonment
of the voyage shall be admitted as G.A.

(d) If a ship under average be in a port or place at which it is practicable to repair her,
so as to enable her to carry on the whole cargo, and if, in order to save expenses, either
she is towed thence to some other port or place of repair or to her destination, or the cargo
or a portion of it is transhipped by another ship, or otherwise forwarded, then the extra cost
of such towage, transhipment and forwarding, or any of them (up to the amount of the extra
expense saved), shall be payable by the several parties to the adventure in proportion to the
extraordinary expense saved.

RULE XI.--WAGES AND MAINTENANCE OF CREW IN PORT OF REFUGE, &c.

When a ship shall have entered or shall have been detained in any port or place under the circumstances,
or for the purposes of the repairs, mentioned in Rule X., the wages payable to the master,
officers and crew, together with the cost of maintenance of the same, during the extra period
of detention in such port or place until the ship shall or should have been made ready to proceed
upon her voyage, shall be admitted as G.A. But when this ship is condemned or does not proceed
on her original voyage, the wages and maintenance of the master, officers and crew, incurred
after the date of the ship's condemnation or of the abandonment of the voyage, shall not be
admitted as G.A.

RULE XII.--DAMAGE TO CARGO IN DISCHARGING, &c.

Damage done to or loss of cargo necessarily caused in the act of discharging, storing, reloading
and stowing shall be made good as G.A. when and only when the cost of those measures respectively
is admitted as G.A.

RULE XIII.--DEDUCTIONS FROM COST OF REPAIRS

In adjusting claims for G.A., repairs to be allowed in G.A. shall be subject to the following
deductions in respect of "new for old," viz.:--

In the case of iron or steel ships, from date of original register to the date of accident:--

Up to 1 year old (A.)

    All repairs to be allowed in full, except painting or coating of
    bottom, from which one-third is to be deducted.

Between 1 and 3 years (B.)

    One-third to be deducted off repairs to and renewal of woodwork of
    hull, masts and spars, furniture, upholstery, crockery, metal and
    glassware, also sails, rigging, ropes, sheets and hawsers (other than
    wire and chain), awnings, covers and painting.

    One-sixth to be deducted off wire rigging, wire ropes and wire hawsers,
    chain cables and chains, donkey engines, steam winches and connexions,
    steam cranes and connexions; other repairs in full.

Between 3 and 6 years (C.)

    Deductions as above under clause B, except that one-sixth be deducted
    off ironwork of masts and spars, and machinery (inclusive of boilers
    and their mountings).

Between 6 and 10 years (D.)

    Deductions as above under clause C, except that one-third be deducted
    off ironwork of masts and spars, repairs to and renewal of all
    machinery (inclusive of boilers and their mountings), and all hawsers,
    ropes, sheets and rigging.

Between 10 & 15 years (E.)

    One-third to be deducted off all repairs and renewals, except ironwork
    of hull and cementing and chain cables, from which one-sixth to be
    deducted. Anchors to be allowed in full.

Over 15 years (F.)

    One-third to be deducted off all repairs and renewals. Anchors to be
    allowed in full. One-sixth to be deducted off chain cables.

Generally (G.)

    The deductions (except as to provisions and stores, machinery and
    boilers) to be regulated by the age of the ship, and not the age of the
    particular part of her to which they apply. No painting bottom to be
    allowed if the bottom has not been painted within six months previous
    to the date of accident. No deduction to be made in respect of old
    material which is repaired without being replaced by new, and
    provisions and stores which have not been in use.

[v.03 p.0056]

In the case of wooden or composite ships:--

    When a ship is under one year old from date of original register, at
    the time of accident, no deduction "new for old" shall be made. After
    that period a deduction of one-third shall be made, with the following
    exceptions:--

        Anchors shall be allowed in full. Chain cables shall be subject to
        a deduction of one-sixth only.

        No deduction shall be made in respect of provisions and stores
        which had not been in use.

        Metal sheathing shall be dealt with, by allowing in full the cost
        of a weight equal to the gross weight of metal sheathing stripped
        off, minus the proceeds of the old metal. Nails, felt and labour
        metalling are subject to a deduction of one-third.

In the case of ships generally:--

    In the case of all ships, the expense of straightening bent ironwork,
    including labour of taking out and replacing it, shall be allowed in
    full.

    Graving dock dues, including expenses of removals, cartages, use of
    shears, stages and graving dock materials, shall be allowed in full.

RULE XIV.--TEMPORARY REPAIRS

No deductions "new for old" shall be made from the cost of temporary repairs of damage allowable
as G.A.

RULE XV.--LOSS OF FREIGHT

Loss of freight arising from damage to or loss of cargo shall be made good as G.A., either
when caused by a G.A. act or when the damage to or loss of cargo is so made good.

RULE XVI.--AMOUNT TO BE MADE GOOD FOR CARGO LOST OR DAMAGED BY SACRIFICE

The amount to be made good as G.A. for damage or loss of goods sacrificed shall be the loss
which the owner of the goods has sustained thereby, based on the market values at the date
of the arrival of the vessel or at the termination of the adventure.

RULE XVII.--CONTRIBUTORY VALUES

The contribution to a G.A. shall be made upon the actual values of the property at the termination
of the adventure, to which shall be added the amount made good as G.A. for property sacrificed;
deduction being made from the shipowner's freight and passage-money at risk, of such port charges
and crew's wages as would not have been incurred had the ship and cargo been totally lost at
the date of the G.A. act or sacrifice, and have not been allowed as G.A.; deduction being also
made from the value of the property of all charges incurred in respect thereof subsequently
to the G.A. act, except such charges as are allowed in G.A.

Passengers' luggage and personal effects, not shipped under bill of lading, shall not contribute
to G.A.

RULE XVIII.--ADJUSTMENT

Except as provided in the foregoing rules, the adjustment shall be drawn up in accordance with
the law and practice that would have governed the adjustment had the contract of affreightment
not contained a clause to pay G.A. according to these rules.

The above rules differ in some important respects from English common law, and from former
English practice. They follow ideas upon the subject of G.A. which have prevailed in practice
in foreign countries (though often in apparent opposition to the language of the codes), in
preference to the more strict principle of the common law applied by English courts. That principle
requires that, in order to have the character of G.A. a sacrifice or expenditure must be made
for the common safety of the several interests in the adventure and under the pressure of a
common risk. It is not enough that the sacrifice or expenditure is prudent, or even necessary
to enable the common adventure to be completed. G.A., on the English view, only arises where
the safety of the several interests is at stake. "The idea of a common commercial adventure,
as distinguished from the common safety from the sea," is not recognized. It is not sufficient
"that an expenditure should have been made to benefit both cargo owner and shipowner."[1]

[Sidenote: Port of refuge expenses.]

Thus expenses incurred after ship and cargo are in safety, say at a port of refuge, are not
generally, by English law, to be treated as G.A.; although the putting into port may have been
for safety, and therefore a G.A. act. If the putting into port has been necessitated by a G.A.
sacrifice, as by cutting away the ship's masts, the case is different; the port expenses, the
expenses of repairing the G.A. damage, and the incidental expenses of unloading, storing and
reloading the cargo are, in such a case, treated as consequences of the original sacrifice,
and therefore subjects for contribution. But where the reason for putting in is to avoid some
danger, such as a storm or hostile cruiser, or to effect repairs necessitated by some accidental
damage to the ship, the G.A. sacrifice is considered to be at an end when the port has been
reached, if the ship and cargo are then in physical safety. The subsequent expenditure in the
port is said not to flow from that sacrifice, but from the necessity of completing the voyage,
and is incurred in performance of the shipowner's obligation under his contract. The practice
of English average adjusters has indeed modified this strict view by treating the expense of
unloading as G.A.; but it may well be doubted whether that practice can be legally supported.
Moreover, expenditure in the port which is incurred in protecting the cargo as in warehousing
it, is by English practice treated as a charge to be borne by the cargo for whose benefit it
was incurred.

If we turn now to York-Antwerp Rule X., it will be seen that a much broader view is adopted.
Whatever the reason for putting into the port of refuge, provided it was necessary for the
common safety, the expenses of going in, and the consequent expenses of getting out (if she
sails again with all or part of her original cargo), are allowed as G.A., Rule X. (a). Further,
the cost of discharging the cargo to enable damage to the ship to be repaired, whether caused
by sacrifice or by accident during the voyage, is to be allowed as G.A., "if the repairs were
necessary for the safe prosecution of the voyage," Rule X. (b). And that is to be so even where
such repairs are done at a port of call, as well as where done at a port of refuge. Again,
when the cost of discharging is treated as G.A., so also are to be the expenses of storing
the cargo on shore, and of reloading and stowing it on board, after the repairs have been done
(Rule X. (c)), together with any damage or loss incidental to those operations (Rule XII.).

Further, by Rule XI. the wages of the master, officers and crew, and the cost of their maintenance,
during the detention of a ship under the circumstances, or for the purpose of the repairs mentioned
in Rule X., are to be allowed in G.A. It is questionable whether English law allows the wages
and maintenance of the crew at a port of refuge in any case. Where the detention is to repair
accidental damage it seems clear that they are not allowed. And in practice under common law,
the allowance is never made; so that Rule XI. is an important concession to the shipowner.
Like the changes introduced by Rule X., it is a change towards the practice in foreign countries.

It may be noted that the rules do not afford equal protection to a shipper in the comparatively
infrequent case of his being put to expense by the delay at a port of refuge. Thus a shipper
of cattle is not entitled to have the extra wages and provisions of his cattlemen on board,
nor the extra fodder consumed by the cattle during the stay at a repairing port, made as good
as G.A. under Rules XI. and X. (Anglo-Argentine &c. Agency v. Temperley Shipping Co., 1899,
2 Q.B. 403).

[Sidenote: General average sacrifices.]

As to the acts which amount to G.A. sacrifices, as distinguished from expenditures, the York-Antwerp
Rules do not much alter English common law. They do, however, make definite provisions upon
some points on which authority was scanty or doubtful. (See Rules I.-IX.) And in Rule I., as
to jettison of deck cargo, a change is made from the common law rule, for the jettison is not
allowed as G.A. even though the cargo be carried on deck in accordance with an established
custom of the particular trade.

Rule III. deals with damage done in extinguishing fire on board a ship. Modern decisions have
cleared away the old doubts whether such damage to ship or cargo should, at law, be allowed
in G.A. But recent cases in the United States have raised the question whether the allowance
should be made where the fire occurs in port, and is extinguished, not by the master, but by
a public authority acting in the interests of the public. The Supreme Court of the United States
decided against the allowance in 1894 in a case of Ralli v. Troup (157 U.S. 386). The ship
had there been scuttled to put out a fire on board, by the port authority, acting upon their
own judgment, but with the assent of the master. It was held that the damage suffered by ship
and cargo ought not to be made good by G.A. contributions; for the sacrifice had not been made
"by some one specially charged with the control and safety of that adventure," but was the
compulsory act of a public authority. On the other hand, in the English case of Papayanni v.
Grampian S.S. Co. (I. Com. Ca. 448), Mathew, J., held that the scuttling of a ship at a port
of refuge in Algeria, by orders of the captain of the port, was a G.A. act. It had been done
in the interest of ship and cargo, and there was no evidence of any other motive.

Rule V. deals with the question whether, and under what conditions, a voluntary stranding of
the ship is a G.A. act, in a manner which will probably be held to express the law in England
when the matter comes up for decision.

Rules VI. and VII. deal with the damage sustained by the ship, or her appliances, in efforts
to force her off the ground when she has stranded. Such efforts involve an abnormal use which
is likely to cause damage to sails and spars, or to engines and boilers; and they are treated
as acts of sacrifice. The case of "The Bona," 1895 (P. 125) shows that the rules are in accord
with English law upon the point. The court of appeal held that both the damage sustained by
the engines while worked to get the ship off, and the coal and stores consumed, were subjects
for G.A. contribution at common law.

[v.03 p.0057] Rule VIII. allows as G.A. any damage sustained by cargo when discharged and,
say, lightered for the purpose of getting the ship off a strand. And the corresponding damage
in the case of cargo discharged at a port of refuge to enable repairs to be done to the ship
is allowed by Rule XII. But in the latter case the allowance does not expressly extend to damage
sustained while stored on land. Whether the law would require contribution to a loss of goods,
say, by thieves or by fire, while landed for repairs, is not clear. Where the landing has been
necessitated by a G.A. act, as cutting away masts, it would seem that the loss ought to be
made good, as being a result of the special risks to which those goods have thereby been exposed.
The risks which they would have run if they had remained on board throughout are taken into
account, as will presently appear, in estimating how much of the damage is to be made good.

The case of a stranded ship and cargo often gives rise to difficulty as to whether the cost
of operations to lighten the ship, and afterwards to get her floated, should be treated as
G.A. expenditure, or as expenses separately incurred in saving the separate interests. The
true conclusion seems to be that either the whole operation should be treated as one for the
common safety, and the whole expense be contributed to by all the interests saved, or else
the several parts of the operation should be kept distinct, debiting the cost of each to the
interests thereby saved. Which of these two views should be adopted in any case seems to depend
upon the motives with which the earlier operations (usually the discharge of the cargo) were
presumably undertaken. It may, however, happen that this test cannot be applied once for all.
Take the case of a stranded ship carrying a bulky cargo of hemp and grain, but carrying also
some bullion. Suppose this last to be rescued and taken to a place of safety at small expense
in comparison with its value. It may well be that that operation must be regarded as done in
the interest simply of the bullion itself, but that the subsequent operations of lightening
the ship and floating her can only be properly regarded as undertaken in the common interest
of ship, hemp, grain and freight. In such a case there will be a G.A. contribution towards
those later operations by those interests. But the bullion will not contribute; it will merely
bear the expense of its own rescue (Royal Mail S. P. Co. v. English Bank of Rio de Janeiro,
1887, 19 Q.B.D. 362).

The York-Antwerp Rules have not only had the valuable result of introducing uniformity where
there had been great variety, and corresponding certainty as to the principles which will be
acted upon in adjusting any G.A. loss, but also they have introduced greater clearness and
definiteness on points where there had been a want of definition. Thus Rule XIII. has laid
down a careful and definite scale to regulate the deductions from the cost of repairs, in respect
of "new for old," in place of the former somewhat uncertain customary rules which varied according
to the place of adjustment; while at the same time the opportunity has been taken of adapting
the scale of deductions to modern conditions of shipbuilding. And Rule XVII. lays down a rule
as to contributory values in place of the widely varying rules of different countries as to
the amounts upon which ship and freight shall contribute (cf. Gow, Marine Insurance, 305).
The fundamental idea is that the several interests at risk shall contribute in proportion to
the benefits they have severally received by the completion of the adventure. Contributions
are not made in proportion to the amounts at stake when the sacrifice was made, but in proportion
to the results when the adventure has come to an end. An interest which has become lost after
the sacrifice, during the subsequent course of the voyage, will pay nothing; an interest which
has become depreciated will pay in proportion to the diminished value. The liability to contribute
is inchoate only when the sacrifice has been made. It becomes complete when the adventure has
come to an end, either by arrival at the destination, or by having been broken up at some intermediate
point, while the interest in question still survives. To this there is one exception, in the
case of G.A. expenditure. Where such expenditure has been incurred by the owner of one interest,
generally by the shipowner, the repayment to him by the other interests ought not to be wholly
dependent upon the subsequent safety of those interests at the ultimate destination. If those
other interests or some of them arrive, or are realized, as by being landed at an intermediate
port, the rule (as in the case of G.A. sacrifices) is that the contributions are to be in proportion
to the arrived or realized values. But if all are lost the burden of the expenditure ought
not to remain upon the interest which at first bore it; and the proper rule seems to be that
contributions must be made by all the interests which were at stake when it was made, in proportion
to their then values.

Again, the object of the law of G.A. is to put one whose property is sacrificed upon an equal
footing with the rest, not upon a better footing. Thus, if goods to the value of £100 have
been thrown overboard for the general safety, the owner of those goods must not receive the
full £100 in contribution. He himself must bear a part of it, for those goods formed part of
the adventure for whose safety the jettison was made; and it is owing to the partial safety
of the adventure that any contribution at all is received by him. He, therefore, is made to
contribute with the other saved interests towards his own loss, in respect of the amount "made
good" to him for that. The full £100 is treated as the amount to be made good, but the owner
of the goods is made to contribute towards that upon the sum of £100 thus saved to him.

The same principle has a further consequence. The amount to be made good will not necessarily
be the value of the goods or other property in their condition at the time they were sacrificed;
so to calculate it would in effect be to withdraw those goods from the subsequent risks of
the voyage, and thus to put them in a better position than those which were not sacrificed.
Hence, in estimating the amount to be made good, the value of the goods or property sacrificed
must be estimated as on arrival, with reference to the condition in which they would probably
have arrived had they remained on board throughout the voyage.

The liability to pay G.A. contributions falls primarily upon the owner of the contributing
interest, ship, goods or freight. But in practice the contributions are paid by the insurers
of the several interests. Merchants seldom have to concern themselves with the subject. And
yet in an ordinary policy of insurance there is no express provision requiring the underwriter
to indemnify the assured against this liability. The policy commonly contains clauses which
recognize such an obligation, e.g. a warranty against average "unless general," or an agreement
that G.A. shall be payable "as per foreign statement," or "according to York-Antwerp Rules";
but it does not directly state the obligation. It assumes that. The explanation seems to be
that the practice of the underwriter to pay the contribution has been so uniform, and his liability
has been so fully recognized, that express provisions were needless. But one result has been
that very differing views of the ground of the obligation have been held. One view has been
that it is covered by the sue and labour clause of an ordinary policy, by which the insurer
agrees to bear his proportion of expenses voluntarily incurred "in and about the defence, safeguard
and recovery" of the insured subject. But that has been held to be mistaken by the House of
Lords (Aitchison v. Lohre, 1879, 4 A.C. 755). Another view is that the underwriter impliedly
undertakes to repay sums which the law may require the assured to pay towards averting losses
which would, by the contract, fall upon the underwriter. Expenses voluntarily incurred by the
assured with that object are expressly made repayable by the sue and labour clause of the policy.
It might well be implied that payments compulsorily required from the assured by law for contributions
to G.A., or as salvage for services by salvors, will be undertaken or repaid by the underwriter,
the service being for his benefit. But the decision in Aitchison v. Lohre negatives this ground
also. The claim was against underwriters on a ship which had been so damaged that the cost
of repairs had exceeded her insured value. A claim for the ship's contribution to certain salvage
and G.A. expenses which had been incurred, over and above the cost of repairs, was disallowed.
The view seems to have been that the insurer is liable for salvage and G.A. payments as losses
of the subject insured, and therefore included in the sum insured, not as collateral payments
made on his behalf. This bases the claim against the insurer upon a fiction, for there has
been no loss of [v.03 p.0058] the subject insured; in fact, the payment has been for averting
such a loss. And it suggests that the insurer is not liable for salvage where the policy is
free of particular average, which does not accord with practice.

An important question as to an insurer's liability for G.A. arose in the case of the Brigella
(1893, P. 189), where a shipowner had incurred expenses which would have been the subject of
G.A. contributions, but that he alone was interested in the voyage. There were no contributories.
He claimed from the insurers of the ship what would have been the ship's G.A. contribution
had there been other persons to contribute in respect of freight or cargo. The claim was disallowed
on the ground that there could be no G.A. in such circumstances, and therefore no basis for
a claim against the insurer. The liability of the insurer was thus made to depend, not upon
the character of the loss, but upon the fact or possibility of contribution. But this was not
followed in Montgomery v. Indemnity Mutual M. I. Co. (1901, 1 K.B. 147). There ship, freight
and cargo all belonged to the same person. He had insured the cargo but not the ship. The cargo
underwriters were held liable to pay a contribution to damage done to the ship by cutting away
masts for the general safety. The loss was in theory spread over all the interests at risk,
and they had undertaken to bear the cargo's share of such losses. Their liability did not depend
upon the accident of whether the interests all belonged to one person or not. This agrees with
the view taken in the United States.

As to Particular Average, see under INSURANCE: Marine.

AUTHORITIES.--Lowndes on General Average (4th ed., London, 1888); Abbott's Merchant Ships and
Seamen (14th ed., London, 1901); Arnould's Marine Insurance (7th ed., London, 1901); Carver's
Carriage by Sea (4th ed., London, 1905).

(T. G. C.)

[1] Per Bowen, L.J., in Svensden v. Wallace, 1883, 13 Q.B.D. at p. 84.

AVERNUS, a lake of Campania, Italy, about 1½ m. N. of Baiae. It is an old volcanic crater,
nearly 2 m. in circumference, now, as in Roman times, filled with water. Its depth is 213 ft.,
and its height above sea-level 3½ ft.; it has no natural outlet. In ancient times it was surrounded
by dense forests, and was the centre of many legends. It was represented as the entrance by
which both Odysseus and Aeneas descended to the infernal regions, and as the abode of the Cimmerii.
Its Greek name, [Greek: Aornos], was explained to mean that no bird could fly across it. Hannibal
made a pilgrimage to it in 214 B.C. Agrippa in 37 B.C. converted it into a naval harbour, the
Portus Iulius; joining it to the Lacus Lucrinus by a canal, and connecting the latter with
the sea, he reduced the distance to Cumae by boring a tunnel over ½ m. in length, now called
Grotta della Pace, through the hill on the north-west side of Lake Avernus. After Sextus Pompeius
had been subdued, the chief naval harbour was transferred to Misenum. Nero's works for his
proposed canal from Baiae to the Tiber (A.D. 64) seem to have begun near Lake Avernus; indeed,
according to one theory, the Grotta della Pace would be a portion of this canal. On the east
side of the lake are remains of baths, including a great octagonal hall known as the Temple
of Apollo, built of brickwork, and belonging to the 1st century. The so-called Grotto of the
Cumaean Sibyl, on the south side, is a rock-cut passage, ventilated by vertical apertures,
possibly a part of the works connected with the naval harbour. To the south-east of the lake
is the Monte Nuovo, a volcanic hill upheaved in 1538, with a deep extinct crater in the centre.
To the south is the Lacus Lucrinus.

See J. Beloch, Campanien (2nd ed., Breslau, 1890), pp. 168 seq.

(T. AS.)

AVERROES [Ab[=u]l-Wal[=i]d Mu[h.]ammad ibn-A[h.]mad Ibn-Mu[h.]ammad ibn-Rushd] (1126-1198),
Arabian philosopher, was born at Cordova. His early life was occupied in mastering the curriculum
of theology, jurisprudence, mathematics, medicine and philosophy, under the approved teachers
of the time. The years of his prime fell during the last period of Mahommedan rule in Spain
under the Almohades (q.v.). It was Ibn-Tufail (Abubacer), the philosophic vizier of Yusef,
who introduced Averroes to that prince, and Avenzoar (Ibn-Zuhr), the greatest of Moslem physicians,
was his friend. Averroes, who was versed in the Malekite system of law, was made cadi of Seville
(1169), and in similar appointments the next twenty-five years of his life were passed. We
find him at different periods in Seville, Cordova and Morocco, probably as physician to Yusef
al-Mansur, who took pleasure in engaging him in discussions on the theories of philosophy and
their bearings on the faith of Islam. But science and free thought then, as now, in Islam,
depended almost solely on the tastes of the wealthy and the favour of the monarch. The ignorant
fanaticism of the multitude viewed speculative studies with deep dislike and distrust, and
deemed any one a Zendik (infidel) who did not rest content with the natural science of the
Koran. These smouldering hatreds burst into open flame about the year 1195. Averroes was accused
of heretical opinions and pursuits, stripped of his honours, and banished to a place near Cordova,
where his actions were closely watched. At the same time efforts were made to stamp out all
liberal culture in Andalusia, so far as it went beyond the little medicine, arithmetic and
astronomy required for practical life. But the storm soon passed. Averroes was recalled to
Morocco when the transient passion of the people had been satisfied, and for a brief period
survived his restoration to honour. He died in the year before his patron, al-Mansur, with
whom (in 1199) the political power of the Moslems came to an end, as did the culture of liberal
science with Averroes. The philosopher left several sons, some of whom became jurists like
his own grandfather. One of them has left an essay, expounding his father's theory of the intellect.
The personal character of Averroes is known to us only in a general way, and as we can gather
it from his writings. His clear, exhaustive and dignified style of treatment evidences the
rectitude and nobility of the man. In the histories of his own nation he has little place;
the renown which spread in his lifetime to the East ceased with his death, and he left no school.
Yet, from a note in a manuscript, we know that he had intelligent readers in Spain more than
a century afterwards. His historic fame came from the Christian Schoolmen, whom he almost initiated
into the system of Aristotle, and who, but vaguely discerning the expositors who preceded,
admired in his commentaries the accumulated results of two centuries of labours.

The literary works of Averroes include treatises on jurisprudence, grammar, astronomy, medicine
and philosophy. In 1859 a work of Averroes was for the first time published in Arabic by the
Bavarian Academy, and a German translation appeared in 1873 by the editor, J. Müller. It is
a treatise entitled Philosophy and Theology, and, with the exception of a German version of
the essay on the conjunction of the intellect with man, is the first translation which enables
the non-Semitic scholar to form any adequate idea of Averroes. The Latin translations of most
of his works are barbarous and obscure. A great part of his writings, particularly on jurisprudence
and astronomy, as well as essays on special logical subjects, prolegomena to philosophy, criticisms
on Avicenna and Alfarabius (F[=a]r[=a]b[=i]), remain in manuscript in the Escorial and other
libraries. The Latin editions of his medical works include the Colliget (i.e. Kulliyyat, or
summary), a résumé of medical science, and a commentary on Avicenna's poem on medicine; but
Averroes, in medical renown, always stood far below Avicenna. The Latin editions of his philosophical
works comprise the Commentaries on Aristotle, the Destructio Destructionis (against Ghaz[=a]li),
the De Substantia Orbis and a double treatise De Animae Beatitudine. The Commentaries of Averroes
fall under three heads:--the larger commentaries, in which a paragraph is quoted at large,
and its clauses expounded one by one; the medium commentaries, which cite only the first words
of a section; and the paraphrases or analyses, treatises on the subjects of the Aristotelian
books. The larger commentary was an innovation of Averroes; for Avicenna, copied by Albertus
Magnus, gave under the rubrics furnished by Aristotle works in which, though the materials
were borrowed, the grouping was his own. The great commentaries exist only for the Posterior
Analytics, Physics, De Caelo, De Anima and Metaphysics. On the History of Animals no commentary
at all exists, and Plato's Republic is substituted for the then inaccessible Politics. The
Latin editions of these works between 1480 and 1580 number about 100. The first [v.03 p.0059]
appeared at Padua (1472); about fifty were published at Venice, the best-known being that by
the Juntas (1552-1553) in ten volumes folio.

See E. Renan, Averroès et l'Averroïsme (2nd ed., Paris, 1861); S. Munk, Mélanges, 418-458;
G. Stöckl, Phil. d. Mittelalters, ii. 67-124; Averroes (Vater und Sohn), Drei Abhandl. über
d. Conjunction d. separaten Intellects mit d. Menschen, trans. into German from the Arabic
version of Sam. Ben-Tibbon, by Dr J. Hercz (Berlin, 1869); T. J. de Boer, History of Philosophy
in Islam (London, 1903), ch. vi.; A. F. M. Mehren in Muséon, vii. 613-627; viii.

(W. W.; G. W. T.)

AVERRUNCATOR, a form of long shears used in arboriculture for "averruncating" or pruning off
the higher branches of trees, &c. The word "averruncate" (from Lat. averruncare, to ward off,
remove mischief) glided into meaning to "weed the ground," "prune vines," &c., by a supposed
derivation from the Lat. ab, off, and eruncare, to weed out, and it was spelt "aberuncate"
to suit this; but the New English Dictionary regards such a derivation as impossible.

AVERSA, a town and episcopal see of Campania, Italy, in the province of Caserta, 15½ m. S.S.W.
by rail from Caserta, and 12½ m. N. by rail from Naples, from which there is also an electric
tramway. Pop. (1901) 23,477. Aversa was the first place in which the Normans settled, it being
granted to them in 1027 for the help which they had given to Duke Sergius of Naples against
Pandulf IV. of Capua. The Benedictine abbey of S. Lorenzo preserves a portal of the 11th century.
There is also a large lunatic asylum, founded by Joachim Murat in 1813.

AVESNES, a town of northern France, capital of an arrondissement in the department of Nord,
on the Helpe, 28 m. S.E. of Valenciennes by rail. Pop. (1906) 5076. The town is the seat of
a sub-prefect, and has a tribunal of first instance, a chamber of commerce and a communal college.
Its church of St Nicholas (16th century) has a tower 200 ft. high, with a fine chime of bells.
The chief industry of the town is wool-spinning, and there is trade in wood. Avesnes was founded
in the 11th century, and formed a countship which in the 15th century passed to the house of
Burgundy and afterwards to that of Habsburg. In 1477 it was destroyed by Louis XI. By the treaty
of the Pyrenees (1659) it came into the possession of the French, and was fortified by Vauban.
It was captured by the Prussians in 1815.

AVEYRON, a department of southern France, bounded N. by Cantal, E. by Lozère and Card, S.W.
by Tarn and W. by Tarn-et-Garonne and Lot. Area, 3386 sq. m. Pop. (1906) 377,299. It corresponds
nearly to the old district of Rouergue, which gave its name to a countship established early
in the 9th century, and united with that of Toulouse towards the end of the 11th century. The
earliest known natives of this region were the Celtic Rutheni, to whom the numerous megalithic
monuments found in the department are attributed. Aveyron lies on the southern border of the
central plateau of France. Its chief rivers are the Lot in the north, the Aveyron in the centre
and the Tarn in the south, all tributaries of the Garonne. They flow from east to west, following
the general slope of the department, and divide it into four zones. In the north-east, between
the Lot and its tributary the Truyère, lies the lonely pastoral plateau of the Viadène, dominated
by the volcanic mountains of Aubrac, which form the north-eastern limit of the department and
include its highest summit (4760 ft.). Entraygues, at the confluence of the Lot and the Truyère,
is one of the many picturesque towns of the department. Between the Lot and the Aveyron is
a belt of causses or monotonous limestone table-lands, broken here and there by profound and
beautiful gorges--a type of scenery characteristic of Aveyron. This zone is also watered by
the Dourdou du Nord, a tributary of the Lot. The salient feature of the region between the
Tarn and the Aveyron is the plateau of the Ségala, bordered on the east by the heights of Lévezou
and Palanges and traversed from east to west by the deep valley of the Viaur, a tributary of
the Aveyron. The country south of the Tarn is occupied in great part by the huge plateau of
Larzac, which lies between the Causse Noir and the Causse St Affrique, the three forming the
south-western termination of the Cévennes. On the Causse Noir is found the fantastic chaos
of rocks and precipices known as Montpellier-le-Vieux, resembling the ruins of a huge city.
The climate of Aveyron varies from extreme rigour in the mountains to mildness in the sheltered
valleys; the south wind is sometimes of great violence. Wheat, rye and oats are the chief cereals
cultivated, the soil of Aveyron being naturally poor. Other crops are potatoes, colza, hemp
and flax. The mainstay of the agriculture of the department is the raising of live-stock, especially
of cattle of the Aubrac breed, for which Laguiole is an important market. The wines of Entraygues,
St Georges, Bouillac and Najac have some reputation; in the Ségala chestnuts form an important
element in the food of the peasants, and the walnut, cider-apple, mulberry (for the silk-worm
industry), and plum are among the fruit trees grown. The production of Roquefort cheeses is
prominent among the agricultural industries. They are made from the milk of the large flocks
of the plateau of Larzac, and the choicest are ripened in the even temperature of the caves
in the cliff which overhangs Roquefort. The minerals found in the department include the coal
of the basins of Aubin and Rodez as well as iron, zinc and lead. Quarries of various kinds
of stone are also worked. The chief industrial centres are Decazeville, which has metallurgical
works, and Millau, where leather-dressing and the manufacture of gloves have attained considerable
importance. Wool-weaving and the manufacture of woollen goods, machinery, chemicals and bricks
are among the other industries.

There are five arrondissements, of which the chief towns are Rodez, capital of the department,
Espalion, Millau, St Affrique and Villefranche, with 43 cantons and 304 communes. Rodez is
the seat of a bishopric, the diocese of which comprises the department. Aveyron belongs to
the 16th military region, and to the académie or educational circumscription of Toulouse. Its
court of appeal is at Montpellier. The department is traversed by the lines both of the Orléans
and Southern railways. The more important towns are Rodez, Millau, St Affrique, Villefranche-de-Rouergue
and Decazeville. The following are also of interest:--Sauveterre, founded in 1281, a striking
example of the bastide (q.v.) of that period; Conques, which has a remarkable abbey-church
of the 11th century like St Sernin of Toulouse in plan and possessing a rich treasury of reliquaries,
&c.; Espalion, where amongst other old buildings there are the remains of a feudal stronghold
and a church of the Romanesque period; Najac, which has the ruins of a magnificent château
of the 13th century; and Sylvanès, with a church of the 12th century, once attached to a Cistercian
abbey.

AVEZZANO, a town of the Abruzzi, Italy, in the province of Aquila, 67 m. E. of Rome by rail
and 38 m. S. of Aquila by road. Pop. (1901) 9442. It has a fine and well-preserved castle,
built in 1490 by Gentile Virginio Orsini; it is square, with round towers at the angles. Avezzano
is on the main line from Rome to Castellammare Adriatico; a branch railway diverges to Roccasecca,
on the line from Naples to Rome. The Lago Fucino lies 1½ m. to the east.

AVIANUS, a Latin writer of fables, placed by some critics in the age of the Antonines, by others
as late as the 6th century A.D. He appears to have lived at Rome and to have been a heathen.
The 42 fables which bear his name are dedicated to a certain Theodosius, whose learning is
spoken of in most flattering terms. He may possibly be Macrobius Theodosius, the author of
the Saturnalia; some think he may be the emperor of that name. Nearly all the fables are to
be found in Babrius, who was probably Avianus's source of inspiration, but as Babrius wrote
in Greek, and Avianus speaks of having made an elegiac version from a rough Latin copy, probably
a prose paraphrase, he was not indebted to the original. The language and metre are on the
whole correct, in spite of deviations from classical usage, chiefly in the management of the
pentameter. The fables soon became popular as a school-book. Promythia and epimythia (introductions
and morals) and paraphrases, and imitations were frequent, such as the Novus Avianus of Alexander
Neckam (12th century).

EDITIONS.--Cannegieter (1731), Lachmann (1845), Fröhner (1862), [v.03 p.0060] Bahrens in Poetae
Latini Minores, Ellis (1887). See Müller, De Phaedri et Aviani Fabulis (1875); Unrein, De Aviani
Aetate (1885); Hervieux, Les Fabulistes latins (1894); The Fables of Avian translated into
Englyshe ... by William Caxton at Westmynstre (1483).

AVIARY (from Lat. avis, a bird), called by older writers "volary," a structure in which birds
are kept in a state of captivity. While the habit of keeping birds in cages dates from a very
remote period, it is probable that structures worthy of being termed aviaries were first used
by the ancient Romans, chiefly for the process of fattening birds for the table. In Varro's
time, 116-127 B.C., aviaries or "ornithones" (from Gr. [Greek: ornis, ornithos], bird) were
common. These consisted of two kinds, those constructed for pleasure, in which were kept nightingales
and other song-birds, and those used entirely for keeping and fattening birds for market or
for the tables of their owners. Varro himself had an aviary for song-birds exclusively, while
Lucullus combined the two classes, keeping birds both for pleasure and as delicacies for his
table. The keeping of birds for pleasure, however, was very rarely indulged in, while it was
a common practice with poulterers and others to have large ornithones either in the city or
at Sabinum for the fattening of thrushes and other birds for food.

Ornithones consisted merely of four high walls and a roof, and were lighted with a few very
small windows, as the birds were considered to pine less if they could not see their free companions
outside. Water was introduced by means of pipes, and conducted in narrow channels, and the
birds were fed chiefly upon dried figs, carefully peeled, and chewed into a pulp by persons
hired to perform this operation.

Turtle-doves were fattened in large numbers for the market on wheat and millet, the latter
being moistened with sweet wine; but thrushes were chiefly in request, and Varro mentions one
ornithon from which no less than five thousand of these birds were sold for the table in one
season.

The habit of keeping birds in aviaries, as we understand the term, for the sake of the pleasure
they afford their owners and for studying their habits is, however, of comparatively recent
date. The beginning of geographical research in the 15th century brought with it the desire
to keep and study at home some of the beautiful forms of bird-life which the explorers came
across, and hence it became the custom to erect aviaries for the reception of these creatures.
In the 16th century, in the early part of which the canary-bird was introduced into Europe,
aviaries were not uncommon features of the gardens of the wealthy, and Bacon refers to them
in his essay on gardening (1597). Elizabeth of Bohemia, the daughter of James I. of England,
when a child, had an outdoor aviary at Coombe Abbey near Coventry, the back and roof of which
were formed of natural rock, in which were kept birds of many species from many countries.

Within recent years the method of keeping birds in large aviaries has received considerable
attention, and it is fully recognized that by so doing, not only do we derive great pleasure,
but our knowledge of avian habits and mode of living can thereby be very considerably increased.

An aviary may be of almost any size, from the large cage known, on account of its shape, as
the "Crystal Palace aviary," to a structure as large as a church; and the term is sometimes
applied to the room of a house with the windows covered with wire-netting; but as a rule it
is used for outdoor structures, composed principally of wire-netting supported on a framework
of either iron or woodwork. For quite hardy birds little more than this is necessary, providing
that protection is given in the form of growing trees and shrubs, rock-work or rough wooden
shelters. For many of the delicate species, however, which hail from tropical countries, warmth
must be provided during the inclement months of the year, and thus a part at least of an aviary
designed for these birds must be in the form of a wooden or brick house which can be shut up
in cold weather and artificially warmed.

The ideal aviary, probably, is that which is constructed in two parts, viz. a well-built house
for the winter, opening out into a large wire enclosure for use in the summer months. The doors
between the two portions may be of wood or glazed. The part intended as the winter home of
the birds is best built in brick or stone, as these materials are practically vermin-proof
and the temperature in such a building is less variable than that in a thin wooden structure.
The floor should be of concrete or brick, and the house should be fitted with an efficient
heating apparatus from which the heat is distributed by means of hot-water pipes. Any arrangement
which would permit the escape into the aviary of smoke or noxious fumes is to be strongly condemned.
Such a house must be well lighted, preferably by means of skylights; but it is a mistake to
have the whole roof glazed, at least half of it should be of wood, covered with slates or tiles.
Perches consisting of branches of trees with the bark adhering should be fixed up, and, if
small birds are to be kept, bundles of bushy twigs should be securely fixed up in corners under
the roofs.

The outer part, which will principally be used during the summer, though it will do most birds
good to be let out for a few hours on mild winter days also, should be as large as possible,
and constructed entirely of wire-netting stretched on a framework of wood or iron. If the latter
material is selected, stout gas-piping is both stronger and more easily fitted together than
solid iron rods.

If the framework be of wood, this should be creosoted, preferably under pressure, or painted
with three coats of good lead paint, the latter preservative also being used if iron is the
material selected.

The wire-netting used may be of almost any sized mesh, according to the sized birds to be kept,
but as a general rule the smallest mesh, such as half or five-eighths of an inch, should be
used, as it is practically vermin-proof, and allows of birds of any size being kept. Wire-netting
for aviaries should be of the best quality, and well galvanized. The new interlinked type is
less durable than the old mesh type, though perhaps it looks somewhat neater when fixed.

Provision must be made for the entire exclusion of such vermin as rats, stoats and weasels,
which, if they were to gain access, would commit great havoc amongst the birds. The simplest
and most effectual method of doing this is by sinking the wire-netting some 2 ft. into the
ground all round the aviary, and then turning it outwards for a distance of another foot as
shown in the annexed cut (fig. 1).

The outer part of the aviary should be turfed and planted with evergreen and deciduous shrubs,
and be provided with some means of supplying an abundance of pure water for the birds to drink
and bathe in; a gravel path should not be forgotten.

Perhaps the most useful type of aviary is that built as above described, but with several compartments,
and a passage at the back by which any compartment may be visited without the necessity of
passing through and disturbing the birds in other compartments. Fig. 2 represents a ground
plan of an aviary of this type divided into four compartments, each with an inner house 10
ft. square, and an outer flight of double that area. The outer flights are intended to be turfed,
and planted with shrubs, and the gravel path has a glazed roof above it by which it is kept
dry in wet weather. Shallow water-basins are shown, which should be supplied by means of an
underground pipe and a cock which can be turned on from outside the aviary; and they must be
connected with a properly laid drain by means of a waste plug and an overflow pipe.

An aviary should always be built with a southern or southeastern aspect, and, where possible,
should be sheltered from the north, north-east and north-west by a belt of fir-trees, high
wall or bank, to protect the birds from the biting winds from these quarters.

When parrots of any kind are to be kept it is useless to try [v.03 p.0061] to grow any kind
of vegetation except grass, and even this will be demolished unless the aviary is of considerable
size. The larger parrots will, in fact, bite to pieces not only living trees but also the woodwork
of their abode, and the only really suitable materials for the construction of an aviary for
these birds are brick or stone and iron; and the wire-netting used must be of the stoutest
gauge or it will be torn to pieces by their strong bills.

The feeding of birds in aviaries is, obviously, a matter of the utmost importance, and, in
order that they may have what is most suitable, the aviculturist should find out as much as
possible of the wild life of the species he wishes to keep, or if little or nothing is known
about their mode of living, as is often the case with rare forms, of nearly related species
whose habits and food are probably much the same, and he should endeavour to provide food as
nearly as possible resembling that which would be obtained by the birds when wild. It is often,
however, impossible to supply precisely the same food as would be obtained by the birds had
they their liberty, but a substitute which suits them well can generally be obtained. The majority
of the parrot tribe subsist principally upon various nuts, seed and fruit, while some of the
smaller parrakeets or paroquets appear to feed almost exclusively upon the seeds of various
grasses. Almost all of these are comparatively easy to treat in captivity, the larger ones
being fed on maize, sunflower-seed, hemp, dari, oats, canary-seed, nuts and various ripe fruits,
while the grass-parrakeets thrive remarkably well on little besides canary-seed and green food,
the most suitable of which is grass in flower, chickweed, groundsel and various seed-bearing
weeds. But there is another large group of parrots, the Loriidae or brush-tongued parrots,
some of the most interesting and brightly coloured of the tribe, which, when wild, subsist
principally upon the pollen and nectar of flowers, notably the various species of Eucalyptus,
the filamented tongues of these parrots being peculiarly adapted for obtaining this. In captivity
these birds have been found to live well upon sweetened milk-sop, which is made by pouring
boiling milk upon crumbled bread or biscuit. They frequently learn to eat seed like other parrots,
but, if fed exclusively upon this, are apt, especially if deprived of abundance of exercise,
to suffer from fits which are usually fatal. Fruit is also readily eaten by the lories and
lorikeets, and should always be supplied.

The foreign doves and pigeons form a numerous and beautiful group which are mostly hardy and
easily kept and bred in captivity. They are for the most part grain-feeders and require only
small corn and seeds, though a certain group, known as the fruit-pigeons, are fed in captivity
upon soft fruits, berries, boiled potato and soaked grain.

The various finches and finch-like birds form an exceedingly large group and comprise perhaps
the most popular of foreign aviary birds. The weaver-birds of Africa are mostly quite hardy
and very easily kept, their food consisting, for the most part, of canary-seed. The males of
these birds are, as a rule, gorgeously attired in brilliant colours, some having long flowing
tail-feathers during the nuptial season, while in the winter their showy dress is replaced
by one of sparrow-like sombreness. The grass-finches of Australasia contain some of the most
brilliantly coloured birds, the beautiful grass-finch (Poëphila mirabilis) being resplendent
in crimson, green, mauve, blue and yellow. Most of these birds build their nests, and many
rear their young, successfully in outdoor aviaries, their food consisting of canary and millet
seeds, while flowering grasses provide them with an endless source of pleasure and wholesome
food. The same treatment suits the African waxbills, many of which are extremely beautiful,
the crimson-eared waxbill or "cordon-bleu" being one of the most lovely and frequently imported.
These little birds are somewhat delicate, especially when first imported, and during the winter
months require artificial warmth.

There is a very large group of insectivorous and fruit-eating birds very suitable for aviculture,
but their mode of living necessarily involves considerable care on the part of the aviculturist
in the preparation of their food. Many birds are partially insectivorous, feeding upon insects
when these are plentiful, and upon various seeds at other times. Numbers of species again which,
when adult, feed almost entirely upon grain, feed their young, especially during the early
stages of their existence, upon insects; while others are exclusively insect-eaters at all
times of their lives. All of these points must be considered by those who would succeed in
keeping and breeding birds in aviaries.

It would be almost an impossibility to keep the purely insectivorous species, were it not for
the fact that they can be gradually accustomed to feed on what is known as "insectivorous"
or "insectile" food, a composition of which the principal ingredients generally consist of
dried ants' cocoons, dried flies, dried powdered meat, preserved yolk of egg,[1] and crumb
of bread or biscuit. This is moistened with water or mixed with mashed boiled potato, and forms
a diet upon which most of the insectivorous birds thrive. The various ingredients, or the food
ready made, can be obtained at almost any bird-fancier's shop. Although it is a good staple
diet for these birds, the addition of mealworms, caterpillars, grubs, spiders and so forth
is often a necessity, especially for purely insectivorous species.

The fruit-eating species, such as the tanagers and sugar-birds of the New World, require ripe
fruit in abundance in addition to a staple diet such as that above described, while for such
birds as feed largely upon earth-worms, shredded raw meat is added with advantage.

Many of the waders make very interesting aviary birds, and require a diet similar to that above
recommended, with the addition of chopped raw meat, mealworms and any insects that can be obtained.

Birds of prey naturally require a meat diet, which is best given in the form of small, freshly
killed mammals and birds, the fur or feathers of which should not be removed, as they aid digestion.

The majority of wild birds, from whatever part of the world they may come, will breed successfully
in suitable aviaries providing proper nesting sites are available. Large bundles of brushwood,
fixed up in sheltered spots, will afford accommodation for many kinds of birds, while some
will readily build in evergreen shrubs if these are grown in their enclosure. Small boxes and
baskets, securely fastened to the wall or roof of the [v.03 p.0062] sheltered part of an aviary,
will be appropriated by such species as naturally build in holes and crevices. Parrots, when
wild, lay their eggs in hollow trees, and occasionally in holes in rocks, making no nest,[2]
but merely scraping out a slight hollow in which to deposit the eggs. For these birds hollow
logs, with small entrance holes near the top, or boxes, varying in size according to the size
of the parrots which they are intended for, should be supplied. In providing nesting accommodation
for his birds the aviculturist must endeavour to imitate their natural surroundings and supply
sites as nearly as possible similar to those which the birds, to whatever order they may belong,
would naturally select.

Aviculture is a delightful pastime, but it is also far more than this; it is of considerable
scientific importance, for it admits of the living birds being studied in a way that would
be quite impossible otherwise. There are hundreds of species of birds, from all parts of the
world, the habits of which are almost unknown, but which may be kept without difficulty in
suitable aviaries. Many of these birds cannot be studied satisfactorily in a wild state by
reason of their shy nature and retiring habits, not to mention their rarity and the impossibility,
so far as most people are concerned, of visiting their native haunts. In suitable large aviaries,
however, their nesting habits, courtship, display, incubation, moult and so forth can be accurately
observed and recorded. The keeping of birds in aviaries is therefore a practice worthy of every
encouragement, so long as the aviaries are of sufficient size and suitable design to allow
of the birds exhibiting their natural habits; for in a large aviary they will reveal the secrets
of their nature as they never would do in a cage or small aviary.

(D. S.-S.)

[1] It has recently been stated by certain medical men that egg-food in any form is an undesirable
diet for birds, owing to its being peculiarly adapted to the multiplication of the bacillus
of septicaemia, a disease which is responsible for the death of many newly imported birds.
It is a significant fact, however, that insectivorous species, which are those principally
fed upon this substance, are not nearly so susceptible to this disease as seed-eating birds
which rarely taste egg; and in spite of what has been written concerning its harmfulness, the
large majority of aviculturists use it, in both the fresh and the preserved state, with no
apparent ill effects, but rather the reverse.

[2] There is, however, one true nest-building parrot, the grey-breasted parrakeet (Myopsittacus
monachus), which constructs a huge nest of twigs. The true love-birds (Agapornis) may also
be said to build nests, for they line their nest-hole with strips of pliant bark.

AVICENNA [Ab[=u] `Al[=i] al-Husain ibn `Abdall[=a]h ibn S[=i]n[=a]] (980-1037), Arabian philosopher,
was born at Afshena in the district of Bokhara. His mother was a native of the place; his father,
a Persian from Balkh, filled the post of tax-collector in the neighbouring town of Harmaitin,
under N[=u]h II. ibn Mansur, the Samanid amir of Bokhara. On the birth of Avicenna's younger
brother the family migrated to Bokhara, then one of the chief cities of the Moslem world, and
famous for a culture which was older than its conquest by the Saracens. Avicenna was put in
charge of a tutor, and his precocity soon made him the marvel of his neighbours,--as a boy
of ten who knew by rote the Koran and much Arabic poetry besides. From a greengrocer he learnt
arithmetic; and higher branches were begun under one of those wandering scholars who gained
a livelihood by cures for the sick and lessons for the young. Under him Avicenna read the Isagoge
of Porphyry and the first propositions of Euclid. But the pupil soon found his teacher to be
but a charlatan, and betook himself, aided by commentaries, to master logic, geometry and the
Almagest. Before he was sixteen he not merely knew medical theory, but by gratuitous attendance
on the sick had, according to his own account, discovered new methods of treatment. For the
next year and a half he worked at the higher philosophy, in which he encountered greater obstacles.
In such moments of baffled inquiry he would leave his books, perform the requisite ablutions,
then hie to the mosque, and continue in prayer till light broke on his difficulties. Deep into
the night he would continue his studies, stimulating his senses by occasional cups of wine,
and even in his dreams problems would pursue him and work out their solution. Forty times,
it is said, he read through the Metaphysics of Aristotle, till the words were imprinted on
his memory; but their meaning was hopelessly obscure, until one day they found illumination
from the little commentary by F[=a]r[=a]b[=i] (q.v.), which he bought at a bookstall for the
small sum of three dirhems. So great was his joy at the discovery, thus made by help of a work
from which he had expected only mystery, that he hastened to return thanks to God, and bestowed
an alms upon the poor. Thus, by the end of his seventeenth year his apprenticeship of study
was concluded, and he went forth to find a market for his accomplishments.

His first appointment was that of physician to the amir, who owed him his recovery from a dangerous
illness (997). Avicenna's chief reward for this service was access to the royal library of
the Samanids (q.v.), well-known patrons of scholarship and scholars. When the library was destroyed
by fire not long after, the enemies of Avicenna accused him of burning it, in order for ever
to conceal the sources of his knowledge. Meanwhile, he assisted his father in his financial
labours, but still found time to write some of his earliest works.

At the age of twenty-two Avicenna lost his father. The Samanid dynasty came to its end in December
1004. Avicenna seems to have declined the offers of Mahm[=u]d the Ghaznevid, and proceeded
westwards to Urjensh in the modern Khiva, where the vizier, regarded as a friend of scholars,
gave him a small monthly stipend. But the pay was small, and Avicenna wandered from place to
place through the districts of Nishapur and Merv to the borders of Khorasan, seeking an opening
for his talents. Shams al-Ma`[=a]l[=i] Q[=a]b[=u]s, the generous ruler of Dailam, himself a
poet and a scholar, with whom he had expected to find an asylum, was about that date (1012)
starved to death by his own revolted soldiery. Avicenna himself was at this season stricken
down by a severe illness. Finally, at Jorj[=a]n, near the Caspian, he met with a friend, who
bought near his own house a dwelling in which Avicenna lectured on logic and astronomy. For
this patron several of his treatises were written; and the commencement of his Canon of Medicine
also dates from his stay in Hyrcania.

He subsequently settled at Rai, in the vicinity of the modern Teheran, where a son of the last
amir, Majd Addaula, was nominal ruler, under the regency of his mother. At Rai about thirty
of his shorter works are said to have been composed. But the constant feuds which raged between
the regent and her second son, Shams Addaula, compelled the scholar to quit the place, and
after a brief sojourn at Kazw[=i]n, he passed southwards to Hamad[=a]n, where that prince had
established himself. At first he entered into the service of a high-born lady; but ere long
the amir, hearing of his arrival, called him in as medical attendant, and sent him back with
presents to his dwelling. Avicenna was even raised to the office of vizier; but the turbulent
soldiery, composed of Kurds and Turks, mutinied against their nominal sovereign, and demanded
that the new vizier should be put to death. Shams Addaula consented that he should be banished
from the country. Avicenna, however, remained hidden for forty days in a sheik's house, till
a fresh attack of illness induced the amir to restore him to his post. Even during this perturbed
time he prosecuted his studies and teaching. Every evening extracts from his great works, the
Canon and the Sanatio, were dictated and explained to his pupils; among whom, when the lesson
was over, he spent the rest of the night in festive enjoyment with a band of singers and players.
On the death of the amir Avicenna ceased to be vizier, and hid himself in the house of an apothecary,
where, with intense assiduity, he continued the composition of his works. Meanwhile, he had
written to Abu Ya`far, the prefect of Isfahan, offering his services; but the new amir of Hamad[=a]n
getting to hear of this correspondence, and discovering the place of Avicenna's concealment,
incarcerated him in a fortress. War meanwhile continued between the rulers of Isfahan and Hamad[=a]n;
in 1024 the former captured Hamad[=a]n and its towns, and expelled the Turkish mercenaries.
When the storm had passed Avicenna returned with the amir to Hamad[=a]n, and carried on his
literary labours; but at length, accompanied by his brother, a favourite pupil, and two slaves,
made his escape out of the city in the dress of a Sufite ascetic. After a perilous journey
they reached Isfahan, and received an honourable welcome from the prince. The remaining ten
or twelve years of Avicenna's life were spent in the service of Abu Ya`far `Al[=a] Addaula,
whom he accompanied as physician and general literary and scientific adviser, even in his numerous
campaigns. During these years he began to study literary matters and philology, instigated,
it is asserted, by [v.03 p.0063] criticisms on his style. But amid his restless study Avicenna
never forgot his love of enjoyment. Unusual bodily vigour enabled him to combine severe devotion
to work with facile indulgence in sensual pleasures. His passion for wine and women was almost
as well known as his learning. Versatile, light-hearted, boastful and pleasure-loving, he contrasts
with the nobler and more intellectual character of Averroes. His bouts of pleasure gradually
weakened his constitution; a severe colic, which seized him on the march of the army against
Hamad[=a]n, was checked by remedies so violent that Avicenna could scarcely stand. On a similar
occasion the disease returned; with difficulty he reached Hamad[=a]n, where, finding the disease
gaining ground, he refused to keep up the regimen imposed, and resigned himself to his fate.
On his deathbed remorse seized him; he bestowed his goods on the poor, restored unjust gains,
freed his slaves, and every third day till his death listened to the reading of the Koran.
He died in June 1037, in his fifty-eighth year, and was buried in Hamad[=a]n.

It was mainly accident which determined that from the 12th to the 17th century Avicenna should
be the guide of medical study in European universities, and eclipse the names of Rhazes, Ali
ibn al-Abbas and Avenzoar. His work is not essentially different from that of his predecessors
Rhazes and Ali; all present the doctrine of Galen, and through Galen the doctrine of Hippocrates,
modified by the system of Aristotle. But the Canon of Avicenna is distinguished from the Al-Hawi
(Continens) or Summary of Rhazes by its greater method, due perhaps to the logical studies
of the former, and entitling him to his surname of Prince of the Physicians. The work has been
variously appreciated in subsequent ages, some regarding it as a treasury of wisdom, and others,
like Avenzoar, holding it useful only as waste paper. In modern times it has been more criticized
than read. The vice of the book is excessive classification of bodily faculties, and over-subtlety
in the discrimination of diseases. It includes five books; of which the first and second treat
of physiology, pathology and hygiene, the third and fourth deal with the methods of treating
disease, and the fifth describes the composition and preparation of remedies. This last part
contains some contingent of personal observation. He is, like all his countrymen, ample in
the enumeration of symptoms, and is said to be inferior to Ali in practical medicine and surgery.
He introduced into medical theory the four causes of the Peripatetic system. Of natural history
and botany he pretends to no special knowledge. Up to the year 1650, or thereabouts, the Canon
was still used as a text-book in the universities of Louvain and Montpellier.

About 100 treatises are ascribed to Avicenna. Some of them are tracts of a few pages, others
are works extending through several volumes. The best-known amongst them, and that to which
Avicenna owed his European reputation, is the Canon of Medicine; an Arabic edition of it appeared
at Rome in 1593, and a Hebrew version at Naples in 1491. Of the Latin version there were about
thirty editions, founded on the original translation by Gerard of Cremona. The 15th century
has the honour of composing the great commentary on the text of the Canon, grouping around
it all that theory had imagined, and all that practice had observed. Other medical works translated
into Latin are the Medicamenta Cordialia, Canticum de Medicina, Tractatus de Syrupo Acetoso.
Scarcely any member of the Arabian circle of the sciences, including theology, philology, mathematics,
astronomy, physics and music, was left untouched by the treatises of Avicenna, many of which
probably varied little, except in being commissioned by a different patron and having a different
form or extent. He wrote at least one treatise on alchemy, but several others have been falsely
attributed to him. His book on animals was translated by Michael Scot. His Logic, Metaphysics,
Physics, De Caelo, are treatises giving a synoptic view of Aristotelian doctrine. The Logic
and Metaphysics have been printed more than once, the latter, e.g., at Venice in 1493, 1495
and 1546. Some of his shorter essays on medicine, logic, &c., take a poetical form (the poem
on logic was published by Schmoelders in 1836). Two encyclopaedic treatises, dealing with philosophy,
are often mentioned. The larger, Al-Shif[=a]' (Sanatio), exists nearly complete in manuscript
in the Bodleian library and elsewhere; part of it on the De Anima appeared at Pavia (1490)
as the Liber Sextus Naturalium, and the long account of Avicenna's philosophy given by Shahrastani
seems to be mainly an analysis, and in many places a reproduction, of the Al-Shif[=a]', A shorter
form of the work is known as the An-naj[=a]t (Liberatio). The Latin editions of part of these
works have been modified by the corrections which the monkish editors confess that they applied.
There is also a Philosophia Orientalis, mentioned by Roger Bacon, and now lost, which according
to Averroes was pantheistic in tone.

For Avicenna's life, see Ibn Khallikan's Biographical Dictionary, translated by McG. de Slane
(1842); F. Wüstenfeld's Geschichte der arabischen Aerzte und Naturforscher (Göttingen, 1840).
For his medicine, see Sprengel, Histoire de la Médecine; and for his philosophy, see Shahrastani,
German trans. vol. ii. 213-332; K. Prantl, Geschichte der Logik, ii. 318-361; A. Stöckl, Phil.
d. Mittelalters, ii. 23-58; S. Munk, Mélanges, 352-366; B. Haneberg in the Abhandlungen der
philos.-philolog. Class. der bayerischen Academie (1867); and Carra de Vaux, Avicenne (Paris,
1900).

(W. W.; G. W. T.)

AVIENUS, RUFIUS FESTUS, a Roman aristocrat and poet, of Vulsinii in Etruria, who flourished
during the second half of the 4th century A.D. He was probably proconsul of Africa (366) and
of Achaia (372). Avienus was a pagan and a staunch supporter of the old religion. He translated
the [Greek: Phainomena] of Aratus and paraphrased the [Greek: Periêgêsis] of Dionysius under
the title of Descriptio Orbis Terrarum, both in hexameters. He also compiled a description,
in iambic trimeters, of the coasts of the Mediterranean, Caspian and Black Seas in several
books, of which only a fragment of the first is extant. He also epitomized Livy and Virgil's
Aeneid in the same metre, but these works are lost. Some minor poems are found under his name
in anthologies, e.g. a humorous request to one Favianus for some pomegranates for medicinal
purposes.

AVIGLIANA, a town of Piedmont, Italy, in the province of Turin, 14 m. W. by rail from the town
of Turin. Pop. (1901) 4629. It has medieval buildings of some interest, but is mainly remarkable
for its large dynamite factory, employing over 500 workman.

AVIGNON, a city of south-eastern France, capital of the department of Vaucluse, 143 m. S. of
Lyons on the railway between that city and Marseilles. Pop. (1906) 35,356. Avignon, which lies
on the left bank of the Rhone, a few miles above its confluence with the Durance, occupies
a large oval-shaped area not fully populated, and covered in great part by parks and gardens.
A suspension bridge leads over the river to Villeneuve-lès-Avignon (q.v.), and a little higher
up, a picturesque ruined bridge of the 12th century, the Pont Saint-Bénézet, projects into
the stream. Only four of the eighteen piles are left; on one of them stands the chapel of Saint-Bénézet,
a small Romanesque building. Avignon is still encircled by the ramparts built by the popes
in the 14th century, which offer one of the finest examples of medieval fortification in existence.
The walls, which are of great strength, are surmounted by machicolated battlements, flanked
at intervals by thirty-nine massive towers and pierced by several gateways, three of which
date from the 14th century. The whole is surrounded by a line of pleasant boulevards. The life
of the town is almost confined to the Place de l'Hôtel de Ville and the Cours de la République,
which leads out of it and extends to the ramparts. Elsewhere the streets are narrow, quiet,
and, for the most part, badly paved. At the northern extremity of the town a precipitous rock,
the Rocher des Doms, rises from the river's edge and forms a plateau stretching southwards
nearly to the Place de l'Hôtel de Ville. Its summit is occupied by a public garden and, to
the south of this, by the cathedral of Notre-Dame des Doms and the Palace of the Popes. The
cathedral is a Romanesque building, mainly of the 12th century, the most prominent feature
of which is the gilded statue of the Virgin which surmounts the western tower. Among the many
works of art in the interior, the most beautiful is the mausoleum of Pope John XXII., a masterpiece
of Gothic [v.03 p.0064] carving of the 14th century. The cathedral is almost dwarfed by the
Palace of the Popes, a sombre assemblage of buildings, which rises at its side and covers a
space of more than 1¼ acres. Begun in 1316 by John XXII., it was continued by succeeding popes
until 1370, and is in the Gothic style; in its construction everything has been sacrificed
to strength, and though the effect is imposing, the place has the aspect rather of a fortress
than of a palace. It was for long used as a barracks and prison, to the exigencies of which
the fine apartments were ruthlessly adapted, but it is now municipal property. Among the minor
churches of the town are St Pierre, which has a graceful façade and richly carved doors, St
Didier and St Agricol, all three of Gothic architecture. The most notable of the civil buildings
are the hôtel de ville, a modern building with a belfry of the 14th century, and the old Hôtel
des Monnaies, the papal mint which was built in 1610 and is now used as a music-school. The
Calvet Museum, so named after F. Calvet, physician, who in 1810 left his collections to the
town, is rich in inscriptions, bronzes, glass and other antiquities, and in sculptures and
paintings. The library has over 140,000 volumes. The town has a statue of a Persian, Jean Althen,
who in 1765 introduced the culture of the madder plant, which long formed the staple and is
still an important branch of local trade. In 1873 John Stuart Mill died at Avignon, and is
buried in the cemetery. For the connexion of Petrarch with the town see PETRARCH.

Avignon is subject to violent winds, of which the most disastrous is the mistral. The popular
proverb is, however, somewhat exaggerated, Avenio ventosa, sine vento venenosa, cum vento fastidiosa
(windy Avignon, pest-ridden when there is no wind, wind-pestered when there is).

Avignon is the seat of an archbishop and has tribunals of first instance and of commerce, a
council of trade-arbitrators, a lycée, and training college, a chamber of commerce and a branch
of the Bank of France. It is in the midst of a fertile district, in the products of which it
has a large trade, and has flour-mills, distilleries, oil-works and leather-works, manufactures
soap, chemicals and liquorice, and is well known for its sarsanet and other fabrics.

Avignon (Avenio) was an important town of the Gallic tribe of the Cavares, and under the Romans
one of the leading cities of Gallia Narbonensis. Severely harassed during the barbarian invasions
and by the Saracens, it was, in later times, attached successively to the kingdoms of Burgundy
and of Arles and to the domains of the counts of Provence and of Toulouse and of Forcalquier.
At the end of the 12th century it became a republic, but in 1226 was taken and dismantled by
Louis VIII. as punishment for its support of the Albigenses, and in 1251 was forced to submit
to the counts of Toulouse and Provence. In 1309 the city was chosen by Clement V. as his residence,
and from that time till 1377 was the papal seat. In 1348 the city was sold by Joanna, countess
of Provence, to Clement VI. After Gregory XI. had migrated to Rome, two antipopes, Clement
VII. and Benedict XIII., resided at Avignon, from which the latter was expelled in 1408. The
town remained in the possession of the popes, who governed it by means of legates, till its
annexation by the National Assembly in 1791, though during this interval several kings of France
made efforts to unite it with their dominions. In 1791 conflicts between the adherents of the
Papacy and the Republicans led to much bloodshed. In 1815 Marshal Brune was assassinated in
the town by the adherents of the royalist party. The bishopric, founded in the 3rd century,
became an archbishopric in 1475.

See Fantoni Castrucci, Istoria della città d'Avignone e del Contado Venesino (Venice, 1678);
J. B. Joudou, Histoire des souverains pontifes qui ont siégé à Avignon (Avignon, 1855); A.
Canron, Guide de l'étranger dans la ville d'Avignon et ses environs (Avignon, 1858); J. F.
André, Histoire de la Papauté à Avignon (Avignon, 1887).

ÁVILA, GIL GONZALEZ DE (c. 1577-1658), Spanish biographer and antiquary, was born and died
at Ávila. He was made historiographer of Castile in 1612, and of the Indies in 1641. Of his
numerous works, the most valuable are his Teatro de las Grandezas des Madrid (Madrid, 1623,
sqq.), and his Teatro Eclesiastico, descriptive of the metropolitan churches and cathedrals
of Castile, with lives of the prelates (Madrid, 1645-1653, 4 vols. 4to).

ÁVILA, a province of central Spain, one of the modern divisions of the kingdom of Old Castile;
bounded on the N. by Valladolid, E. by Segovia and Madrid, S. by Toledo and Cáceres, and W.
by Salamanca. Pop. (1900) 200,457; area, 2570 sq. m. Ávila is naturally divided into two sections,
differing completely in soil, climate, productions and social economy. The northern portion
is generally level; the soil is of indifferent quality, strong and marly in a few places, but
rocky in all the valleys of the Sierra de Ávila; and the climate alternates from severe cold
in winter to extreme heat in summer. The population of this part is mainly agricultural. The
southern division is one mass of rugged granitic sierras, interspersed, however, with sheltered
and well-watered valleys, abounding with rich vegetation. The winter here, especially in the
elevated region of the Paramera and the waste lands of Ávila, is long and severe, but the climate
is not unhealthy. In this region stock-breeding is an important industry. The principal mountain
chains are the Guadarrama, separating this province from Madrid; the Paramera and Sierra de
Ávila, west of the Guadarrama; and the vast wall of the Sierra de Gredos along the southern
frontier, where its outstanding peaks rise to 6000 or even 8000 ft. The ridges which ramify
from the Paramera are covered with valuable forests of beeches, oaks and firs, presenting a
striking contrast to the bare peaks of the Sierra de Gredos. The principal rivers are the Alberche
and Tietar, belonging to the basin of the Tagus, and the Tórmes, Trabáncos and Adaja, belonging
to that of the Douro. The mountains contain silver, copper, iron, lead and coal, but their
mineral wealth has been exaggerated, and at the beginning of the 20th century mining had practically
been abandoned. Quarries of fine marble and jasper exist in the district of Arenas. The province
declined in wealth and population during the 18th and 19th centuries, a result due less to
the want of activity on the part of the inhabitants than to the oppressive manorial and feudal
rights and the strict laws of entail and mortmain, which acted as barriers to progress.

Towards the close of this period many improvements were introduced, although the want of irrigation
is still keenly felt. Wide tracts of waste land were planted with pinewoods by the ducal house
of Medina Sidonia. The main roads are fairly good; and Ávila, the capital, is connected by
rail with Salamanca, Valladolid and Madrid; but in many parts of the province the means of
communication are defective. Except Ávila there are no important towns. The principal production
is the wool of the merino sheep, which at one time yielded an immense revenue. Game is plentiful,
and the rivers abound in fish, specially trout. Olives, chestnuts and grapes are grown, and
silk-worms are kept. There is little trade, and the manufactures are few, consisting chiefly
of copper utensils, lime, soap, cloth, paper and combs. The state of elementary education is
comparatively good, rather more than two-thirds of the population being able to read and write,
and the ratio of crime is proportionately low.

ÁVILA (anc. Abula or Avela), the capital of the province described above; on the right bank
of the river Adaja, 54 m. W. by N. of Madrid, by the Madrid-Valladolid railway. Pop. (1900)
11,885. The city is built on the flat summit of a rocky hill, which rises abruptly in the midst
of a veritable wilderness; a brown, arid, treeless table-land, strewn with immense grey boulders,
and shut in by lofty mountains. The ancient walls of Ávila, constructed of brown granite, and
surmounted by a breastwork, with eighty-six towers and nine gateways, are still in excellent
repair; but a large part of the city lies beyond their circuit. Ávila is the seat of a bishop,
and contains several ecclesiastical buildings of high interest. The Gothic cathedral, said
by tradition to date from 1107, but probably of 13th or 14th century workmanship, has the appearance
of a fortress, with embattled walls and two solid towers. It contains many interesting sculptures
and paintings, besides one especially fine silver pyx, the work of Juan de Arphe, dating from
1571. The churches of San Vicente, San Pedro, Santo Tomás and San [v.03 p.0065] Segundo are,
in their main features, Romanesque of the 15th century, although parts of the beautiful San
Vicente, and of San Pedro, may be as old as the 12th century. Especially noteworthy is the
marble monument in Santo Tomás, carved by the 15th-century Florentine sculptor Domenico Fancelli,
over the tomb of Prince John (d. 1497), the only son of Ferdinand and Isabella. The convent
and church of Santa Teresa mark the supposed birthplace of the saint whose name they bear (c.
1515-1582) Ávila also possesses an old Moorish castle (alcázar) used as barracks, a foundling
hospital, infirmary, military academy, and training schools for teachers of both sexes. From
1482 to 1807 it was also the seat of a university. It has a considerable trade in agricultural
products, leather, pottery, hats, linen and cotton goods.

For the local history see V. Picatoste, Tradiciones de Ávila (Madrid, 1888); and L. Ariz, Historia
de las grandezas de ... Ávila (Alcalá de Henares, 1607).

AVILA Y ZUNIGA, LUIS DE (c. 1490-c. 1560), Spanish historian, was born at Placentia. He was
probably of low origin, but married a wealthy heiress of the family of Zuniga, whose name he
added to his own. He rose rapidly in the favour of the emperor Charles V., served as ambassador
to Rome, and was made grand commander of the order of the Knights of Alcantara. He accompanied
the emperor to Africa in 1541, and having served during the war of the league of Schmalkalden,
wrote a history of this war entitled Commentarios de la guerra de Alemaña, hecha de Carlos
V en el año de 1546 y 1547. This was first printed in 1548, and becoming very popular was translated
into French, Dutch, German, Italian and Latin. As may be expected from the author's intimacy
with Charles, the book is very partial to the emperor, and its misrepresentations have been
severely criticized.

AVILÉS, PEDRO MENÉNDEZ DE (1519-1574), Spanish seaman, founder of St Augustine, Florida, was
born at Avilés in Asturias on the 15th of February 1519. His family were gentry, and he was
one of nineteen brothers and sisters. At the age of fourteen he ran away to sea, and was engaged
till he was thirty in a life of adventure as a corsair. In 1549 during peace between France
and Spain he was commissioned by the emperor Charles V. to clear the north coast of Spain and
the Canaries of French pirates. In 1554 he was appointed captain-general of the "flota" or
convoy which carried the trade between Spain and America. The appointment was made by the emperor
over the head and against the will of the Casa de Contratacion, or governing board of the American
trade. In this year, and before he sailed to America, Avilés accompanied the prince of Spain,
afterwards Philip II., to England, where he had gone to marry Queen Mary. As commander of the
flota he displayed a diligence, and achieved a degree of success in bringing back treasure,
which earned him the hearty approval of the emperor. But his devotion to the imperial service,
and his steady refusal to receive bribes as the reward for permitting breaches of the regulations,
made him unpopular with the merchants, while his high-handed ways offended the Casa de Contratacion.
Reappointed commander in 1557, and knowing the hostility of the Casa, he applied for service
elsewhere. The war with France in which Spain and England were allies was then in progress,
and until the close of 1559 ample occupation was found for Avilés in bringing money and recruits
from Spain to Flanders. When peace was restored he commanded the fleet which brought Philip
II. back from the Low Countries to Spain. In 1560 he was again appointed to command the flota,
and he made a most successful voyage to America and back, in that and the following year. His
relations with the Casa de Contratacion were, however, as strained as ever. On his return from
another voyage in 1563 he was arrested by order of the Casa, and was detained in prison for
twenty months. What the charges brought against him were is not known. Avilés in a letter to
the king avows his innocence, and he was finally discharged by the judges, but not until they
had received two peremptory orders from the king to come to a decision.

On his release he prepared to sail to the Bermudas to seek for his son Juan, who had been shipwrecked
in the previous year. At that time the French Huguenots were engaged in endeavouring to plant
a colony in Florida. As the country had been explored by the Spaniards they claimed it as theirs,
and its position on the track of the home-coming trade of Mexico rendered its possession by
any other power highly dangerous. Philip II. endeavoured to avert the peril by making an "asiento"
or contract with Avilés, by which he advanced 15,000 ducats to the seaman, and constituted
him proprietor of any colony which he could establish in Florida, on condition that the money
was repaid. The contract was signed on the 20th of March 1565. Avilés sailed on the 28th of
July of the same year with one vessel of 600 tons, ten sloops and 1500 men. On the 28th of
August he entered and named the Bay of St Augustine, and began a fort there. He took the French
post of Fort Caroline on the 20th of September 1565, and in October exterminated a body of
Frenchmen who, under the Huguenot Jean Ribault, had arrived on the coast of Florida to relieve
their colony. The Spanish commander, after slaying nearly all his prisoners, hung their bodies
on trees, with the inscription, "Not as Frenchmen but as Lutherans." A French sea-captain named
Dominique de Gourgues revenged the massacre by capturing in 1568 Fort San Mateo (as the Spanish
had renamed Fort Caroline), and hanging the garrison, with the inscription, "Not as Spaniards
but as murderers." Till 1567 Avilés remained in Florida, busy with his colony. In that year
he returned to Spain. He made one more voyage to Florida, and died on the 17th of September
1574. Avilés married Maria de Solis, when very young, and left three daughters. His letters
prove him to have been a pious and high-minded officer, who never imagined that he could be
supposed by any honest man to have gone too far in massacring the Frenchmen, whom he regarded
as pirates and heretics.

(D. H.)

AVILÉS, or SAN NICOLÁS DE AVILÉS (the Roman Flavionavia), a seaport of northern Spain, in the
province of Oviedo; on the Bay of Avilés, a winding inlet of the Bay of Biscay, 24 m. by rail
W. of Gijón. Pop. (1900) 12,763. Avilés is a picturesque and old-fashioned town, containing
several ancient palaces and Gothic churches. The bay, which is crossed by a fine bridge at
its narrow landward extremity, is the headquarters of a fishing fleet, and a port of call for
many coasting vessels. Coal from the Oviedo mines is exported coastwise, and in 1904 the shipments
from Avilés for the first time exceeded those from Gijón, reaching a total of more than 290,000
tons. Glass and coarse linen and woollen stuffs are manufactured; and there are valuable stone
quarries in the neighbourhood.

AVIZANDUM (from Late Lat. avizare, to consider), a Scots law term; the judge "makes avizandum
with a cause," i.e. takes time to consider his judgment.

AVLONA (anc. Aulon; Ital. Valona; Alb. Vliona), a town and seaport of Albania, Turkey, in the
vilayet of Iannina. Pop. (1900) about 6000. Avlona occupies an eminence near the Gulf of Avlona,
an inlet of the Adriatic, almost surrounded by mountains. The port is the best on the Albanian
coast, and the nearest to Italy. It is protected by the island of Saseno, the ancient Saso,
and by Cape Glossa, the northernmost headland of the Acroceraunian mountains. It is regularly
visited by steamers from Trieste, Fiume, Brindisi, and other Austro-Hungarian and Italian ports,
as well as by many small Greek and Turkish coasters. The cable and telegraph line from Otranto,
in Italy, to Constantinople, has an important station here. The town is about 1½ m. from the
sea, and has rather a pleasant appearance with its minarets and its palace, surrounded with
gardens and olive-groves. Valonia, a material largely used by tanners, is the pericarp of an
acorn obtained in the neighbouring oak-woods, and derives its name from Valona. The surrounding
district is mainly agricultural and pastoral, producing oats, maize, cotton, olive oil, cattle,
sheep, skins, hides and butter. All these commodities are exported in considerable quantities,
besides bitumen, which is obtained from a mine worked by a French [v.03 p.0066] company. The
imports are woollen and cotton piece-goods, metals and petroleum.

Avlona played an important part in the wars between the Normans and the Byzantines, during
the 11th and 12th centuries. In 1464 it was taken by the Ottomans; and after being in Venetian
possession in 1690, was restored to them in 1691. In 1851 it suffered severely from an earthquake.

AVOCA, or OVOCA, VALE OF, a mountain glen of county Wicklow, Ireland, in the south-eastern
part of the county, formed by the junction of the small rivers Avonmore and Avonbeg, which,
rising in the central highlands of the county, form with their united waters the Ovoca river,
flowing south and south-east to the Irish Sea at Arklow. The vale would doubtless rank only
as one among the many beautiful glens of the district, but that it has obtained a lasting celebrity
through one of the Irish Melodies of the poet Thomas Moore, in which its praises are sung.
It is through this song that the form "Avoca" is most familiar, although the name is locally
spelt "Ovoca." The glen is narrow and densely wooded. Its beauty is somewhat marred by the
presence of lead and copper mines, and by the main line of the Dublin & South Eastern railway,
on which Ovoca station, midway in the vale, is 42¾ m. south of Dublin. Of the two "meetings
of the waters" (the upper, of the Avonmore and Avonbeg, and the lower, of the Aughrim with
the Ovoca) the upper, near the fine seat of Castle Howard, is that which inspired the poet.
At Avondale, above the upper "meeting," by the Avonmore, Charles Stewart Parnell was born.

AVOCADO PEAR, the fruit of the tree Persea gratissima, which grows in the West Indies and elsewhere;
the flesh is of a soft and buttery consistency and highly esteemed. The name avocado, the Spanish
for "advocate," is a sound-substitute for the Aztec ahuacatl; it is also corrupted into "alligator-pear."
Avocato, avigato, abbogada are variants.

AVOGADRO, AMEDEO, CONTE DI QUAREGNA (1776-1856), Italian physicist, was born at Turin on the
9th of June 1776, and died there on the 9th of July 1856. He was for many years professor of
higher physics in Turin University. He published many physical memoirs on electricity, the
dilatation of liquids by heat, specific heats, capillary attraction, atomic volumes &c. as
well as a treatise in 4 volumes on Fisica di corpi ponderabili (1837-1841). But he is chiefly
remembered for his "Essai d'une manière de déterminer les masses relatives des molécules élémentaires
des corps, et les proportions selon lesquelles elles entrent dans les combinaisons" (Journ.
de Phys., 1811), in which he enunciated the hypothesis known by his name (Avogadro's rule)
that under the same conditions of temperature and pressure equal volumes of all gases contain
the same number of smallest particles or molecules, whether those particles consist of single
atoms or are composed of two or more atoms of the same or different kinds.

AVOIDANCE (from "avoid," properly to make empty or void, in current usage, to keep away from,
to shun; the word "avoid" is adapted from the O. Fr. esvuidier or évider, to empty out, voide,
modern vide, empty, connected with Lat. vacuus), the action of making empty, void or null,
hence, in law, invalidation, annulment (see CONFESSION AND AVOIDANCE); also the becoming void
or vacant, hence in ecclesiastical law a term signifying the vacancy of a benefice--that it
is void of an incumbent. In general use, the word means the action of keeping away from anything,
shunning or avoiding.

AVOIRDUPOIS, or AVERDUPOIS (from the French avoir de pois, goods of weight), the name of a
system of weights used in Great Britain and America for all commodities except the precious
metals, gems and medicines. The foundation of the system is the grain. A cubic inch of water
weighs 252.458 grains. Of this grain 7000 now (see WEIGHTS AND MEASURES) make a pound avoirdupois.
This pound is divided into 16 oz., and these ounces into 16 drachms.

                     Avoirdupois Weight.

    Drachm, 16=ounce, 16=pound, 14=stone 2=quarter, 4=hundred, 20=ton.
  27.3 grains 437.5    7000      98,000  196,000 grs   112 lb  2240 lb.

AVON, the name of several rivers in England and elsewhere. The word is Celtic, appearing in
Welsh (very frequently) as afon, in Manx as aon, and in Gaelic as abhuinn (pronounced avain),
and is radically identical with the Sanskrit ap, water, and the Lat. aqua and amnis. The root
appears more or less disguised in a vast number of river names all over the Celtic area in
Europe. Thus, besides such forms as Evan, Aune, Anne, Ive, Auney, Inney, &c., in the British
Islands, Aff, Aven, Avon, Aune appear in Brittany and elsewhere in France, Avenza and Avens
in Italy, Avia in Portugal, and Avono in Spain; while the terminal syllable of a large proportion
of the Latinized names of French rivers, such as the Sequana, the Matrona and the Garumna,
seems originally to have been the same word. The names Punjab, Doab, &c., show the root in
a clearer shape.

In England the following are the principal rivers of this name.

1. The EAST or HAMPSHIRE AVON rises in Wiltshire south of Marlborough, and watering the Vale
of Pewsey collects feeders from the high downs between Marlborough and Devizes. Breaching the
high ground of Salisbury Plain, it passes Amesbury, and following a very sinuous course reaches
Salisbury. Here it receives on the east bank the waters of the Bourne, and on the west those
of the Wylye. With a more direct course, and in a widening, fertile valley it continues past
Downton, Fordingbridge and Ringwood, skirting the New Forest on the west, to Christchurch,
where it receives the Stour from the west, and 2½ m. lower enters the English Channel through
the broad but narrow-mouthed Christchurch harbour. The length, excluding lesser sinuosities,
is about 60 m., Salisbury being 35 m. above the mouth. The total fall is rather over 500 ft.,
and that from Salisbury about 140 ft. The river is of no commercial value for navigation. It
abounds in loach, and there are valuable salmon fisheries. The drainage area is 1132 sq. m.

2. The LOWER or BRISTOL AVON rises on the eastern slope of the Cotteswold Hills in Gloucestershire,
collecting the waters of several streams south of Tetbury and east of Malmesbury. It flows
east and south in a wide curve, through a broad upper valley past Chippenham and Melksham,
after which it turns abruptly west to Bradford-on-Avon, receives the waters of the Frome from
the south, and enters the beautiful narrow valley in which lie Bath and Bristol. Below Bristol
the valley becomes the Clifton Gorge, famous for its wooded cliffs and for the Clifton (q.v.)
suspension bridge which bestrides it. The cliffs and woods have been so far disfigured by quarries
that public feeling was aroused, and in 1904 an "Avon Gorge Committee" was appointed to report
to the corporation of Bristol on the possibility of preserving the beauties of the locality.
The Avon finally enters the estuary of the Severn at Avonmouth, though it can hardly be reckoned
as a tributary of that river. From Bristol downward the river is one of the most important
commercial waterways in England, as giving access to that great port. The Kennet and Avon Canal,
between Reading and the Avon, follows the river closely from Bradford down to Bath, where it
enters it by a descent of seven locks. The length of the river, excluding minor sinuosities,
is about 75 m., the distance from Bradford to Bath being 10 m., thence to Bristol 12 m., and
thence to the mouth 8 m. The total fall is between 500 and 600 ft., but it is only 235 ft.
from Malmesbury. The drainage area is 891 sq. miles.

3. The UPPER AVON, also called the Warwickshire, and sometimes the "Shakespeare" Avon from
its associations with the poet's town of Stratford on its banks, is an eastern tributary of
the Severn. It rises near Naseby in Northamptonshire, and, with a course of about 100 m. joins
the Severn immediately below Tewkesbury in Gloucestershire. Its early course is south-westerly
to Rugby, thereafter it runs west and south-west to Warwick, receiving the Leam on the east.
Its general direction thereafter remains south-westerly, and it flows past Stratford-on-Avon,
receives the Stour on the south and the Arrow on the north and thence past Evesham and Pershore
to Tewkesbury. The valley is always broad, and especially from Warwick downward, through the
Vale of Evesham, the scenery is very beautiful, the rich valley being flanked by the bold Cotteswold
Hills on [v.03 p.0067] the south and by the wooded slopes of the Arden district of Warwickshire
on the north. The view of Warwick Castle, rising from the wooded banks of the river, is unsurpassed,
and the positions of Stratford and Evesham are admirable. The river is locked, and carries
a small trade up to Evesham, 28 m. from Tewkesbury; the locks from Evesham upward to Stratford
(17 m.) are decayed, but the weirs, and mill-dams still higher, afford many navigable reaches
to pleasure boats. The total fall of the river is about 500 ft.; from Rugby about 230 ft.,
and from Warwick 120 ft. The river abounds in coarse fish.

Among other occurrences of the name of Avon in Great Britain there may be noted--in England,
a stream flowing south-east from Dartmoor in Devonshire to the English Channel; in South Wales,
the stream which has its mouth at Aberavon in Glamorganshire; in Scotland, tributaries of the
Clyde, the Spey and the Forth.

AVONIAN, in geology, the name proposed by Dr A. Vaughan in 1905 (Q.J.G.S. vol. lxi. p. 264)
for the rocks of Lower Carboniferous age in the Avon gorge at Bristol. The Avonian stage appears
to embrace precisely the same rocks and fossil-zones as the earlier designation "Dinantien"
(see CARBONIFEROUS SYSTEM); but its substages, being founded upon different local conditions
and a different interpretation of the zonal fossils, do not correspond exactly with those of
the French and Belgian geologists.

               Substages.       ZONES.        Substages.

            { Kidwellian  { Dibunophyllum }             }
            {             { Seminula      } Viséen      }
    Avonian {                               }             } Dinantien
            {             { Syringothyris }             }
            { Clevedonian {                               }
            {             { Zaphrentis    } Tournaisien }
            {             { Cleistopora   }             }

The upper Avonian (Kidwellian) is well developed about Kidwelly in Carmarthenshire. The lower
substage (Clevedonian) is well displayed near Clevedon in Somerset.

See A. Vaughan, "The Carboniferous Limestone Series (Avonian) of the Avon Gorge," Proc. Bristol
Naturalists' Soc., 4th series, vol. i. pt. 2, 1906, pp. 74-168 (many plates); and T. F. Sibley,
"On the Carboniferous Limestone (Avonian) of the Mendip area (Somerset)," Q.J.G.S. vol. lxii.,
1906, pp. 324-380 (plates).

(J. A. H.)

AVONMORE, BARRY YELVERTON, 1ST VISCOUNT (1736-1805), Irish judge, was born in 1736. He was
the eldest son of Frank Yelverton of Blackwater, Co. Cork. Educated at Trinity College, Dublin,
he was for some years an assistant master under Andrew Buck in the Hibernian Academy. In 1761
he married Miss Mary Nugent, a lady of some fortune, and was then enabled to read for the bar.
He was called in 1764, his success was rapid, and he took silk eight years afterwards. He sat
in the Irish parliament as member successively for the boroughs of Donegal and Carrickfergus,
becoming attorney-general in 1782, but was elevated to the bench as chief baron of the exchequer
in 1783. He was created (Irish) Baron Avonmore in 1795, and in 1800 (Irish) viscount. Among
his colleagues at the Irish bar Yelverton was a popular and charming companion. Of insignificant
appearance, he owed his early successes to his remarkable eloquence, which made a great impression
on his contemporaries; as a judge, he was inclined to take the view of the advocate rather
than that of the impartial lawyer. He gave his support to Grattan and the Whigs during the
greater part of his parliamentary career, but in his latter days became identified with the
court party and voted for the union, for which his viscounty was a reward. He had three sons
and one daughter, and the title has descended in the family.

AVRANCHES, a town of north-western France, capital of an arrondissement in the department of
Manche, 87 m. S. of Cherbourg on the Western railway. Pop. (1906) 7186. It stands on a wooded
hill, its botanical gardens commanding a fine view westward of the bay and rock of St Michel.
At the foot of the hill flows the river Sée, which at high tide is navigable from the sea.
The town is surrounded by avenues, which occupy the site of the ancient ramparts, remains of
which are to be seen on the north side. Avranches was from 511 to 1790 a bishop's see, held
at the end of the 17th century by the scholar Daniel Huet; and its cathedral, destroyed as
insecure in the time of the first French Revolution, was the finest in Normandy. Its site is
now occupied by an open square, one stone remaining to mark the spot where Henry II. of England
received absolution for the murder of Thomas Becket. The churches of Notre-Dame des Champs
and St Saturnin are modern buildings in the Gothic style. The ancient episcopal palace is now
used as a court of justice; a public library is kept in the hôtel de ville. In the public gardens
there is a statue of General Jean Marie Valhubert, killed at Austerlitz. Avranches is seat
of a sub-prefect and has a tribunal of first instance and a communal college. Leather-dressing
is the chief industry; steam-sawing, brewing and dyeing are also carried on, and horticulture
flourishes in the environs. Trade is in cider, cattle, butter, flowers and fruit, and there
are salmon and other fisheries.

Avranches, an important military station of the Romans, was in the middle ages chief place
of a county of the duchy of Normandy. It sustained several sieges, the most noteworthy of which,
in 1591, was the result of its opposition to Henry IV. In 1639 Avranches was the focus of the
peasant revolt against the salt-tax, known as the revolt of the Nu-pieds.

AWADIA and FADNIA, two small nomad tribes of pure Arab blood living in the Bayuda desert, Anglo-Egyptian
Sudan, between the wells of Jakdul and Metemma. They are often incorrectly classed as Ja'alin.
They own numbers of horses and cattle, the former of the black Dongola breed. At the battle
of Abu Klea (17th of January 1885) they were conspicuous for their courage in riding against
the British square.

AWAJI, an island belonging to Japan, situated at the eastern entrance of the Inland Sea, having
a length of 32 m., an extreme breadth of 16 m., and an area of 218 sq. m., with a population
of about 190,000. It is separated on the south from the island of Shikoku by the Naruto channel,
through which, in certain conditions of the tide, a remarkable torrential current is set up.
The island is celebrated for its exquisite scenery, and also for the fact that it is traditionally
reputed to have been the first of the Japanese islands created by the deities Izanagi and Izanami.
The loftiest peak is Yuruuba-yama (1998 ft.), the most picturesque Sen-zan (1519 ft.). Awaji
is noted for a peculiar manufacture of pottery.

AWARD (from O. Fr. ewart, or esguart, cf. "reward"), the decision of an arbitrator. (See ARBITRATION.)

AWE, LOCH, the longest freshwater lake in Scotland, situated in mid-Argyllshire, 116 ft. above
the sea, with an area of nearly 16 sq. m. It has a N.E. to S.W. direction and is fully 23 m.
long from Kilchurn Castle to Ford, its breadth varying from 1/3 of a mile to 3 m. at its upper
end, where it takes the shape of a crescent, one arm of which runs towards Glen Orchy, the
other to the point where the river Awe leaves the lake. The two ends of the loch are wholly
dissimilar in character, the scenery of the upper extremity being majestic, while that of the
lower half is pastoral and tame. Of its numerous islands the best-known is Inishail, containing
ruins of a church and convent, which was suppressed at the Reformation. At the extreme north-eastern
end of the lake, on an islet which, when the water is low, becomes part of the mainland, stand
the imposing ruins of Kilchurn Castle. Its romantic surroundings have made this castle a favourite
subject of the landscape painter. Dalmally, about 2 m. from the loch, is one of the pleasantest
villages in the Highlands and has a great vogue in midsummer. The river Awe, issuing from the
north-western horn of the loch, affords excellent trout and salmon fishing.

AWL (O. Eng. ael; at one time spelt nawl by a confusion with the indefinite article before
it), a small hand-tool for piercing holes.

AXE (O. Eng. aex; a word common, in different forms, in the Teutonic languages, and akin to
the Greek [Greek: axinê]; the New English Dictionary prefers the spelling "ax"), a tool or
weapon, taking various shapes, but, when not compounded with some distinguishing word (e.g.
in "pick-axe"), generally formed [v.03 p.0068] by an edged head fixed upon a handle for striking.
A "hatchet" is a small sort of axe.

AXHOLME, an island in the north-west part of Lincolnshire, England, lying between the rivers
Trent, Idle and Don, and isolated by drainage channels connected with these rivers. It consists
mainly of a plateau of slight elevation, rarely exceeding 100 ft., and comprises the parishes
of Althorpe, Belton, Epworth, Haxey, Luddington, Owston and Crowle; the total area being about
47,000 acres. At a very early period it would appear to have been covered with forest; but
this having been in great measure destroyed, it became in great part a swamp. In 1627 King
Charles I., who was lord of the island, entered into a contract with Cornelius Vermuyden, a
Dutchman, for reclaiming the meres and marshes, and rendering them fit for tillage. This undertaking
led to the introduction of a large number of Flemish workmen, who settled in the district,
and, in spite of the violent measures adopted by the English peasantry to expel them, retained
their ground in sufficient numbers to affect the physical appearance and the accent of the
inhabitants to this day. The principal towns in the isle are Crowle (pop. 2769) and Epworth.
The Axholme joint light railway runs north and south through the isle, connecting Goole with
Haxey junction; and the Great Northern, Great Eastern and Great Central lines also afford communications.
The land is extremely fertile. The name, properly Axeyholm (cf. Haxey), is hybrid, Ax being
the Celtic uisg, water; ey the Anglo-Saxon for island; and holm the Norse word with the same
signification.

AXILE, or AXIAL, a term (= related to the axis) used technically in science; in botany an embryo
is called axile when it has the same direction as the axis of the seed.

AXINITE, a mineral consisting of a complex aluminium and calcium boro-silicate with a small
amount of basic hydrogen; the calcium is partly replaced in varying amounts by ferrous iron
and manganese, and the aluminium by ferric iron: the formula is HCa3BAl2(SiO4)4. The mineral
was named (from [Greek: axinê], an axe) by R. J. Haüy in 1799, on account of the characteristic
thin wedge-like form of its anorthic crystals. The colour is usually clove-brown, but rarely
it has a violet tinge (on this account the mineral was named yanolite, meaning violet stone,
by J. C. Delamétherie in 1792). The best specimens are afforded by the beautifully developed
transparent glassy crystals, found with albite, prehnite and quartz, in a zone of amphibolite
and chlorite-schists at Le Bourg d'Oisans in Dauphiné. It is found in the greenstone and hornblende-schists
of Batallack Head near St Just in Cornwall, and in diabase in the Harz; and small ones in Maine
and in Northampton county, Pennsylvania, U.S.A. Large crystals have also been found in Japan.
In its occurrence in basic rather than in acid eruptive rocks, axinite differs from the boro-silicate
tourmaline, which is usually found in granite. The specific gravity is 3.28. The hardness of
6½-7, combined with the colour and transparency, renders axinite applicable for use as a gemstone,
the Dauphiné crystals being occasionally cut for this purpose.

(L. J. S.)

