10. The following is said to be a correct posture for walking: Head erect--not too rigid--chin
in, shoulders back. Permit no unnecessary motion about the thighs. Do not lean over to one
side in walking, standing or sitting; the practice is not only ungraceful, but it is deforming
and therefore unhealthful.

11. Beware of affectation and of Beau Brummel airs.

12. If the hands are allowed to swing in walking, the are should be limited, and the lady will
manage them much more gracefully, if they almost touch the clothing.

13. A lady should not stand with her hands behind her. We could almost say, forget the hands
except to keep them clean, including the nails, cordial and helpful. One hand may rest easily
in the other. Study repose of attitude here as well as in the rest of the body.

14. Gestures are for emphasis in public speaking; do not point elsewhere, as a rule.

15. Greet your acquaintances as you meet them with a slight bow and smile, as you speak.

16. Look the person to whom you speak in the eye. Never under any circumstances wink at another
or communicate by furtive looks.

17. Should you chance to be the rejected suitor of a lady, bear in mind your own self-respect,
as well as the inexorable laws of society, and bow politely when you meet her. Reflect that
you do not stand before all woman-kind as you do at her bar. Do not resent the bitterness of
flirtation. No lady or gentleman will flirt. Remember ever that painful prediscovery is better
than later disappointment. Let such experience spur you to higher exertion.

18. Discretion should be exercised in introducing persons. Of two gentlemen who are introduced,
if one is superior in rank or age, he is the one to whom the introduction should be made. Of
two social equals, if one be a stranger in the place his name should be mentioned first.

19. In general the simpler the introduction the better.

20. Before introducing a gentleman to a lady, remember that she is entitled to hold you responsible
for the acquaintance. The lady is the one to whom the gentleman is presented, which may be
done thus: "Miss A, permit me to introduce to you my friend, Mr. B."; or, "Miss A., allow me
to introduce Mr. B." If mutual and near friends of yours, say simply, "Miss A. Mr. B."

21. Receive the introduction with a slight bow and the acknowledgment, "Miss A., I am happy
to make your acquaintance"; or, "Mr. B., I am pleased to meet you." There is no reason why
such stereotyped expressions should always be used, but something similar is expected. Do not
extend the hand usually.

22. A true lady will avoid familiarity in her deportment towards gentlemen. A young lady should
not permit her gentlemen friends to address her by her home name, and the reverse is true.
Use the title Miss and Mr. respectively.

23. Ladies should be frank and cordial towards their lady friends, but never gushing.

24. Should you meet a friend twice or oftener, at short intervals, it is polite to bow slightly
each time after the first.

25. A lady on meeting a gentleman with whom she has slight acquaintance will make a medium
bow--neither too decided nor too slight or stiff.

26. For a gentleman to take a young lady's arm, is to intimate that she is feeble, and young
ladies resent the mode.

27. If a young lady desires to visit any public place where she expects to meet a gentleman
acquaintance, she should have a chaperon to accompany her, a person of mature years When possible,
and never a giddy girl.

28. A lady should not ask a gentleman to walk with her.

       *       *       *       *       *

A COMPLETE ETIQUETTE IN A FEW PRACTICAL RULES.

1. If you desire to be respected, keep clean. The finest attire and decorations will add nothing
to the appearance or beauty of an untidy person.

2. Clean clothing, clean skin, clean hands, including the nails, and clean, white teeth, are
a requisite passport for good society.

3. A bad breath should be carefully remedied, whether it proceeds from the stomach or from
decayed teeth.

4. To pick the nose, finger about the ears, or scratch the head or any other part of the person,
in company, is decidedly vulgar.

5. When you call at any private residence, do not neglect to clean your shoes thoroughly.

6. A gentleman should always remove his hat in the presence of ladies, except out of doors,
and then he should lift or touch his hat in salutation. On meeting a lady a well-bred gentleman
will always lift his hat.

7. An invitation to a lecture, concert, or other entertainment, may be either verbal or written,
but should always be made at least twenty-four hours before the time.

8. On entering a hall or church the gentleman should precede the lady in walking up the aisle,
or walk by her side, if the aisle is broad enough.

9. A gentleman should always precede a lady upstairs, and follow her downstairs.

10. Visitors should always observe the customs of the church with reference to standing, sitting,
or kneeling during the services.

11. On leaving a hall or church at the close of entertainment or services, the gentleman should
precede the lady.

12. A gentleman walking with a lady should carry the parcels, and never allow the lady to be
burdened with anything of the kind.

13. A gentleman meeting a lady on the street and wishing to speak to her, should never detain
her, but may turn around and walk in the same direction she is going, until the conversation
is completed.

14. If a lady is traveling with a gentleman, simply as a friend, she should place the amount
of her expenses in his hands, or insist on paying the bills herself.

15. Never offer a lady costly gifts unless you are engaged to her, for it looks as if you were
trying to purchase her good-will; and when you make a present to a lady use no ceremony whatever.

16. Never carry on a private conversation in company. If secrecy is necessary, withdraw from
the company.

17. Never sit with your back to another without asking to be excused.

18. It is as unbecoming for a gentleman to sit with legs crossed as it is for a lady.

19. Never thrum with your fingers, rub your hands, yawn or sigh aloud in company.

20. Loud laughter, loud talking, or other boisterous manifestations should be checked in the
society of others, especially on the street and in public places.

21. When you are asked to sing or play in company, do so without being urged, or refuse in
a way that shall be final; and when music is being rendered in company, show politeness to
the musician by giving attention. It is very impolite to keep up a conversation. If you do
not enjoy the music keep silent.

22. Contentions, contradictions, etc. in society should be carefully avoided.

23. Pulling out your watch in company, unless asked the time of day, is a mark of the demi-bred.
It looks as if you were tired of the company and the time dragged heavily.

24. You should never decline to be introduced to any one or all of the guests present at a
party to which you have been invited.

25. A gentleman who escorts a lady to a party, or who has a lady placed under his care, is
under particular obligations to attend to her wants and see that she has proper attention.
He should introduce her to others, and endeavor to make the evening pleasant. He should escort
her to the supper table and provide for her wants.

26. To take small children or dogs with you on a visit of ceremony is altogether vulgar, though
in visiting familiar friends, children are not objectionable.

       *       *       *       *       *

ETIQUETTE OF CALLS.

In the matter of making calls it is the correct thing:

For the caller who arrived first to leave first.

To return a first call within a week and in person.

To call promptly and in person after a first invitation.

For the mother or chaperon to invite a gentleman to call.

To call within a week after any entertainment to which one has been invited.

You should call upon an acquaintance who has recently returned from a prolonged absence.

It as proper to make the first call upon people in a higher social position, if one is asked
to do so.

It is proper to call, after an engagement has been announced, or a marriage has taken place,
in the family.

For the older residents in the city or street to call upon the newcomers to their neighborhood
is a long recognized custom.

It is proper, after a removal from one part of the city to another, to send out cards with
one's new address upon them.

To ascertain what are the prescribed hours for calling in the place where one is living, or
making a visit, and to adhere to those hours is a duty that must not be overlooked.

A gentleman should ask for the lady of the house as well as the young ladies, and leave cards
for her as well as for the head of the family.

       *       *       *       *       *

ETIQUETTE IN YOUR SPEECH.

Don't say Miss or Mister without the person's name.

Don't say pants for trousers.

Don't say gents for gentlemen.

Don't say female for woman.

Don't say elegant to mean everything that pleases you.

Don't say genteel for well-bred.

Don't say ain't for isn't.

Don't say I done it for I did it.

Don't say he is older than me; say older than I.

Don't say she does not see any; say she does not see at all.

Don't say not as I know; say not that I know.

Don't say he calculates to get off; say he expects to get off.

Don't say he don't; say he doesn't.

Don't say she is some better; say she is somewhat better.

Don't say where are you stopping? say where are you staying?

Don't say you was; say you were.

Don't say I say, says I, but simply say I said.

Don't sign your letters yours etc., but yours truly.

Don't say lay for lie; lay expresses action; lie expresses rest.

Don't say them bonnets; say those bonnets.

Don't say party for person.

Don't say it looks beautifully, but say it looks beautiful.

Don't say feller, winder, to-morrer, for fellow, window, to-morrow.

Don't use slangy words; they are vulgar.

Don't use profane words; they are sinful and foolish.

Don't say it was her, when you mean it was she.

Don't say not at once for at once.

Don't say he gave me a recommend, but say he gave me a recommendation.

Don't say the two first for the first two.

Don't say he learnt me French; say he taught me French.

Don't say lit the fire; say lighted the fire.

Don't say the man which you saw; say the man whom you saw.

Don't say who done it; say who did it

Don't say if I was rich I would buy a carriage; say if I were rich.

Don't say if I am not mistaken you are in the wrong; say if I mistake not.

Don't say who may you be; say who are you?

Don't say go lay down; say go lie down.

Don't say he is taller than me; say taller than I.

Don't say I shall call upon him; say I shall call on him.

Don't say I bought a new pair of shoes; say I bought a pair of new shoes.

Don't say I had rather not; say I would rather not.

Don't say two spoonsful; say two spoonfuls.

       *       *       *       *       *

ETIQUETTE OF DRESS AND HABITS.

Don't let one day pass without a thorough cleansing of your person.

Don't sit down to your evening meal before a complete toilet if you have company.

Don't cleanse your nails, your nose or your ears in public.

Don't use hair dye, hair oil or pomades.

Don't wear evening dress in daytime.

Don't wear jewelry of a gaudy character; genuine jewelry modestly worn is not out of place.

Don't overdress yourself or walk affectedly.

Don't wear slippers or dressing-gown or smoking-jacket out of your own house.

Don't sink your hands in your trousers' pockets.

Don't whistle in public places, nor inside of houses either.

Don't use your fingers or fists to beat a tattoo upon floor desk or window panes.

Don't examine other people's papers or letters scattered on their desk.

Don't bring a smell of spirits or tobacco into the presence of ladies.

Never use either in the presence of ladies.

Don't drink spirits; millions have tried it to their sorrow.

       *       *       *       *       *

ETIQUETTE ON THE STREET.

1. Your conduct on the street should always be modest and dignified. Ladies should carefully
avoid all loud and boisterous conversation or laughter and all undue liveliness in public.

2. When walking on the street do not permit yourself to be absent-minded, as to fail to recognize
a friend; do not go along reading a book or newspaper.

3.

4. At night the arm should always be offered; also in ascending the steps of a public building.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9. Never offer to shake hands with a lady in the street if you have on dark or soiled gloves,
as you may soil hers.

10.

11.

1. A lady should be a lady, and a gentleman a gentleman under any and all circumstances.

2. FEMALE INDIFFERENCE TO MAN.--There is nothing that affects the nature and pleasure of man
so much as a proper and friendly recognition from a lady, and as women are more or less dependent
upon man's good-will, either for gain or pleasure, it surely stands to their interest to be
reasonably pleasant and courteous in his presence or society. Indifference is always a poor
investment, whether in society or business.

3. GALLANTRY AND LADYISM should be a prominent feature in the education of young people. Politeness
to ladies cultivates the intellect and refines the soul and he who can be easy and entertaining
in the society of ladies has mastered one of the greatest accomplishments. There is nothing
taught in school, academy or college, that contributes so much to the happiness of man as a
full development of his social and moral qualities.

4. LADYLIKE ETIQUETTE.--No woman can afford to treat men rudely. A lady must have a high intellectual
and moral ideal and hold herself above reproach. She must remember that the art of pleasing
and entertaining gentlemen is infinitely more ornamental than laces, ribbons or diamonds. Dress
and glitter may please man, but it will never benefit him.

5. CULTIVATE DEFICIENCIES.--Men and women poorly sexed treat each other with more or less indifference,
whereas a hearty sexuality inspires both to a right estimation of the faculties and qualities
of each other. Those who are deficient should seek society and overcome their deficiencies.
While some naturally inherit faculties as entertainers others are compelled to acquire them
by cultivation.

6. LADIES' SOCIETY.--He who seeks ladies' society should seek an education and should have
a pure heart and a pure mind. Read good, pure and wholesome literature and study human nature,
and you will always be a favorite in the society circle.

7. WOMAN HATERS.--Some men with little refinement and strong sensual feelings virtually insult
and thereby disgust and repel every female they meet. They look upon woman with an inherent
vulgarity, and doubt the virtue and integrity of all alike. But it is because they are generally
insincere and impure themselves, and with such a nature culture and refinement are out of the
question, there must be a revolution.

8. MEN HATERS.--Women who look upon all men as odious, corrupt or hateful, are no doubt so
themselves, though they may be clad in silk and sparkle with diamonds and be as pretty as a
lily; but their hypocrisy will out, and they can never win the heart of a faithful, conscientious
and well balanced man. A good woman has broad ideas and great sympathy. She respects all men
until they are proven unworthy.

9. FOND OF CHILDREN.--The man who is naturally fond of children will make a good husband and
a good father. So it behooves the young man, to notice children and cultivate the art of pleasing
them. It will be a source of interest, education and permanent benefit to all.

10. EXCESSIVE LUXURY.--Although the association with ladies is an expensive luxury, yet it
is not an expensive education. It elevates, refines, sanctifies and purifies, and improves
the whole man. A young man who has a pure and genuine respect for ladies, will not only make
a good husband, but a good citizen as well.

11. MASCULINE ATTENTION.--No woman is entitled to any more attention than her loveliness and
ladylike conduct will command. Those who are most pleasing will receive the most attention,
and those who desire more should aspire to acquire more by cultivating those graces and virtues
which ennoble woman, but no lady should lower or distort her own true ideal, or smother and
crucify her conscience, in order to please any living man. A good man will admire a good woman,
and deceptions cannot long be concealed. Her show of dry goods or glitter of jewels cannot
long cover up her imperfections or deceptions.

12. PURITY.--Purity of purpose will solve all social problems. Let all stand on this exalted
sexual platform, and teach every man just how to treat the female sex, and every woman how
to behave towards the masculine; and it will incomparably adorn the manners of both, make both
happy in each other, and mutually develop each other's sexuality and humanity.

       *       *       *       *       *

PRACTICAL RULES ON TABLE MANNERS.

1.

2. Never put anything by force upon any one's plate. It is extremely ill-bred, though extremely
common, to press one to eat of anything.

3. If at dinner you are requested to help any one to sauce or gravy, do not pour it over the
meat or vegetables, but on one side of them. Never load down a person's plate with anything.

4. As soon as you are helped, begin to eat, or at least begin to occupy yourself with what
you have before you. Do not wait till your neighbors are served--a custom that was long ago
abandoned.

5. Should you, however, find yourself at a table where they have the old-fashioned steel forks,
eat with your knife, as the others do, and do not let it be seen that you have any objection
to doing so.

6. Bread should be broken. To butter a large piece of bread and then bite it, as children do,
is something the knowing never do.

7. In eating game or poultry do not touch the bones with your fingers. To take a bone in the
fingers for the purpose of picking it, is looked upon as being very inelegant.

8. Never use your own knife or fork to help another. Use rather the knife or fork of the person
you help.

9. Never send your knife or fork, or either of them, on your plate when you send for second supply.

10. Never turn your elbows out when you use your knife and fork. Keep them close to your sides.

11. Whenever you use your fingers to convey anything to your mouth or to remove anything from
the mouth, let it be the fingers of the left hand.

12. Tea, coffee, chocolate and the like are drank from the cup and never from the saucer.

13. In masticating your food, keep your mouth shut; otherwise you will make a noise that will
be very offensive to those around you.

14. Don't attempt to talk with a full mouth. One thing at a time is as much as any man can do well.

15. Should you find a worm or insect in your food, say nothing about it.

16. If a dish is distasteful to you, decline it, and without comment.

17. Never put bones or bits of fruit on the table cloth. Put them on the side of your plate.

18. Do not hesitate to take the last piece on the dish, simply because it is the last. To do
so is to directly express the fear that you would exhaust the supply.

19. If you would be what you would like to be--abroad, take care that you are what you would
like to be--at home.

20. Avoid picking your teeth at the table if possible; but if you must, do it, it you can,
where you are not observed.

21. If an accident of any kind soever should occur during dinner, the cause being who or what
it may, you should not seem to note it.

22. Should you be so unfortunate as to overturn or to break anything, you should make no apology.
You might let your regret appear in your face, but it would not be proper to put it in words.

       *       *       *       *       *

SOCIAL DUTIES.

  Man In Society is like a flower,
  Blown in its native bed. 'Tis there alone
  His faculties expanded in full bloom
  Shine out, there only reach their proper use.
  --COWPER.

1. MEMBERSHIP IN SOCIETY.--Many fail to get hold of the idea that they are members of society.
They seem to suppose that the social machinery of the world is self-operating. They cast their
first ballot with an emotion of pride perhaps, but are sure to pay their first tax with a groan.
They see political organizations in active existence; the parish, and the church, and other
important bodies that embrace in some form of society all men, are successfully operated; and
yet these young men have no part or lot in the matter. They do not think of giving a day's
time to society.

2. BEGIN EARLY.--One of the first things a young man should do is to see that he is acting
his part in society. The earlier this is begun the better. I think that the opponents of secret
societies in colleges have failed to estimate the benefit which it must be to every member
to be obliged to contribute to the support of his particular organization, and to assume personal
care and responsibility as a member. If these societies have a tendency to teach the lessons
of which I speak, they are a blessed thing.

3. DO YOUR PART.--Do your part, and be a man among men. Assume your portion of social responsibility,
and see that you discharge it well. If you do not do this, then you are mean, and society has
the right to despise you just as much as it chooses to do so. You are, to use a word more emphatic
than agreeable, a sneak, and have not a claim upon your neighbors for a single polite word.

4. A WHINING COMPLAINER.--Society, as it is called, is far more apt to pay its dues to the
individual than the individual to society. Have you, young man, who are at home whining over
the fact that you cannot get into society, done anything to give you a claim to social recognition?
Are you able to make any return for social recognition and social privileges? Do you know anything?
What kind of coin do you propose to pay in the discharge of the obligation which comes upon
you with social recognition? In other words, as a return for what you wish to have society
do for you, what can you do for society? This is a very important question--more important
to you than to society. The question is, whether you will be a member of society by right,
or by courtesy. If you have so mean a spirit as to be content to be a beneficiary of society--to
receive favors and to confer none--you have no business in the society to which you aspire.
You are an exacting, conceited fellow.

5. WHAT ARE YOU GOOD FOR?--Are you a good beau, and are you willing to make yourself useful
in waiting on the ladies on all occasions? Have you a good set of teeth, which you are willing
to show whenever the wit of the company gets off a good thing? Are you a true, straightforward,
manly fellow, with whose healthful and uncorrupted nature it is good for society to come in
contact? In short, do you possess anything of any social value? If you do, and are willing
to impart it, society will yield itself to your touch. If you have nothing, then society, as
such, owes you nothing. Christian philanthropy may put its arm around you, as a lonely young
man, about to spoil for want of something, but it is very sad and humiliating for a young man
to be brought to that. There are people who devote themselves to nursing young men, and doing
them good. If they invite you to tea, go by all means, and try your hand. If in the course
of the evening, you can prove to them that your society is desirable, you have won a point.
Don't be patronized.

6. THE MORBID CONDITION.--Young men, you are apt to get into a morbid state of mind, which
declines them to social intercourse. They become devoted to business with such exclusiveness,
that all social intercourse is irksome. They go out to tea as if they were going to jail, and
drag themselves to a party as to an execution. This disposition is thoroughly morbid, and to
be overcome by going where you are invited, always, and with a sacrifice of feeling.

7. THE COMMON BLUNDER.--Don't shrink from contact with anything but bad morals. Men who affect
your unhealthy minds with antipathy, will prove themselves very frequently to be your best
friends and most delightful companions. Because a man seems uncongenial to you, who are squeamish
and foolish, you have no right to shun him. We become charitable by knowing men. We learn to
love those whom we have despised by rubbing against them. Do you not remember some instance
of meeting a man or woman whom you had never previously known or cared to know--an individual,
perhaps, against whom you have entertained the strongest prejudices--but to whom you became
bound by a lifelong friendship through the influence of a three days' intercourse? Yet, if
you had not thus met, you would have carried through life the idea that it would be impossible
for you to give your fellowship to such an individual.

8. THE FOOLISHNESS OF MAN.--God has introduced into human character infinite variety, and for
you to say that you do not love and will not associate with a man because he is unlike you,
is not only foolish but wrong. You are to remember that in the precise manner and decree in
which a man differs from you, do you differ from him; and that from his standpoint you are
naturally as repulsive to him, as he, from your standpoint, is to you. So, leave all this talk
of congeniality to silly girls and transcendental dreamers.

9. DO BUSINESS IN YOUR WAY AND BE HONEST.--Do your business in your own way, and concede to
every man the privilege which you claim for yourself. The more you mix with men, the less you
will be disposed to quarrel, and the more charitable and liberal will you become. The fact
that you do not understand a man, is quite as likely to be your fault as his. There are a good
many chances in favor of the conclusion that, if you fail to like an individual whose acquaintance
you make it is through your own ignorance and illiberality. So I say, meet every man honestly;
seek to know him; and you will find that in those points in which he differs from you rests
his power to instruct you, enlarge you, and do you good. Keep your heart open for everybody,
and be sure that you shall have your reward. You shall find a jewel under the most uncouth
exterior; and associated with homeliest manners and oddest ways and ugliest faces, you will
find rare virtues, fragrant little humanities, and inspiring heroisms.

10. WITHOUT SOCIETY, WITHOUT INFLUENCE.--Again: you can have no influence unless you are social.
An unsocial man is as devoid of influence as an ice-peak is of verdure. It is through social
contact and absolute social value alone that you can accomplish any great social good. It is
through the invisible lines which you are able to attach to the minds with which you are brought
into association alone that you can tow society, with its deeply freighted interests, to the
great haven of your hope.

11. THE REVENGE OF SOCIETY.--The revenge which society takes upon the man who isolates himself,
is as terrible as it is inevitable. The pride which sits alone will have the privilege of sitting
alone in its sublime disgust till it drops into the grave. The world sweeps by the man, carelessly,
remorselessly, contemptuously. He has no hold upon society, because he is no part of it.

12. THE CONCLUSION OF THE WHOLE MATTER.--You cannot move men until you are one of them. They
will not follow you until they have heard your voice, shaken your hand, and fully learned your
principles and your sympathies. It makes no difference how much you know, or how much you are
capable of doing. You may pile accomplishment upon acquisition mountain high; but if you fail
to be a social man, demonstrating to society that your lot is with the rest, a little child
with a song in its mouth, and a kiss for all and a pair of innocent hands to lay upon the knees,
shall lead more hearts and change the direction of more lives than you.

       *       *       *       *       *

POLITENESS.

1. Good manners are neither more nor less than beautiful behavior.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8. At the same time many are impolite, not because they mean to be so, but because they are
awkward, and perhaps know no better."

9.

10. SELF-FORGETFULNESS.--True politeness is best evinced by self-forgetfulness, or self-denial
in the interest of others. Mr. Garfield, our martyred president, was a gentleman of royal type.
His friend, Col. Rockwell, says of him: "In, the midst of his suffering he never forgets others.
For instance, to-day he said to me, 'Rockwell, there is a poor soldier's widow who came to
me before this thing occurred, and I promised her, she should be provided for. I want you to
see that the matter is attended to at once.' He is the most docile patient I ever saw."

11.

12. Politeness of manner is not worth much, unless it is accompanied by polite actions.

1. REPUTATION.--The two most precious things this side the grave are our reputation and our
life. But it is to be lamented that the most contemptible whisper may deprive us of the one,
and the weakest weapon of the other. A wise man, therefore, will be more anxious to deserve
a fair name than to possess it, and this will teach him so to live, as not to be afraid to die.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

       *       *       *       *       *

FAMILY GOVERNMENT.

1. GENTLENESS MUST CHARACTERIZE EVERY ACT OF AUTHORITY.--The storm of excitement that may make
the child start, bears no relation to actual obedience. The inner firmness, that sees and feels
a moral conviction and expects obedience, is only disguised and defeated by bluster. The more
calm and direct it is, the greater certainty it has of dominion.

2. FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF SMALL CHILDREN.--For the government of small children speak only in
the authority of love, yet authority, loving and to be obeyed. The most important lesson to
impart is obedience to authority as authority. The question of salvation with most children
will be settled as soon as they learn to obey parental authority. It establishes a habit and
order of mind that is ready to accept divine authority. This precludes skepticism and disobedience,
and induces that childlike trust and spirit set forth as a necessary state of salvation. Children
that are never made to obey are left to drift into the sea of passion where the pressure for
surrender only tends to drive them at greater speed from the haven of safety.

3. HABITS OF SELF-DENIAL.--Form in the child habits of self-denial. Pampering never matures
good character.

4. EMPHASIZE INTEGRITY.--Keep the moral tissues tough in integrity; then it will hold a hook
of obligations when once set in a sure place. There is nothing more vital. Shape all your experiments
to preserve the integrity. Do not so reward it that it becomes mercenary. Turning State's evidence
is a dangerous experiment in morals. Prevent deceit from succeeding.

5. GUARD MODESTY.--To be brazen is to imperil some of the best elements of character. Modesty
may be strengthened into a becoming confidence, but brazen facedness can seldom be toned down
into decency. It requires the miracle of grace.

6. PROTECT PURITY.--Teach your children to loathe impurity. Study the character of their playmates.
Watch their books. Keep them from corruption at all cost. The groups of youth in the school
and in society, and in business places, seed with improprieties of word and thought. Never
relax your vigilance along this exposed border.

7. THREATEN THE LEAST POSSIBLE.--In family government threaten the least possible. Some parents
rattle off their commands with penalties so profusely that there is a steady roar of hostilities
about the child's head. These threats are forgotten by the parent and unheeded by the child.
All government is at an end.

8. DO NOT ENFORCE TOO MANY COMMANDS.--Leave a few things within the range of the child's knowledge
that are not forbidden. Keep your word good, but do not have too much of it out to be redeemed.

9. PUNISH AS LITTLE AS POSSIBLE.--Sometimes punishment is necessary, but the less it is resorted
to the better.

10. NEVER PUNISH IN A PASSION.--Wrath only becomes cruelty. There is no moral power in it.
When you seem to be angry you can do no good.

11. BRUTISH VIOLENCE ONLY MULTIPLIES OFFENDERS.--Striking and beating the body seldom reaches
the soul. Fear and hatred beget rebellion.

12. PUNISH PRIVATELY.--Avoid punishments that break down self-respect. Striking the body produces
shame and indignation. It is enough for the other children to know that discipline is being
administered.

13. NEVER STOP SHORT OF SUCCESS.--When the child is not conquered the punishment has been worse
than wasted. Reach the point where neither wrath nor sullenness remain. By firm persistency
and persuasion require an open look of recognition and peace. It is only evil to stir up the
devil unless he is cast out. Ordinarily one complete victory will last a child for a lifetime.
But if the child relapses, repeat the dose with proper accompaniments.

14. DO NOT REQUIRE CHILDREN TO COMPLAIN OF THEMSELVES FOR PARDON.--It begets either sycophants
or liars. It is the part of the government to detect offences. It reverses the order of matters
to shirk this duty.

15. GRADE AUTHORITY UP TO LIBERTY.--The growing child must have experiments of freedom. Lead
him gently into the family. Counsel with him. Let him plan as he can. By and by he has the
confidence of courage without the danger of exposures.

16. RESPECT.--Parents must respect each other. Undermining either undermines both. Always govern
in the spirit of love.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONVERSATION.

Some men are very entertaining for a first interview, but after that they are exhausted, and
run out; on a second meeting we shall find them very flat and monotonous; like hand-organs,
we have heard all their tunes.--COULTON.

Beauty is never so lovely as when adorned with the smile, and conversation never sits easier
upon us than when we know and then discharge ourselves in a symphony of Laughter, which may
not improperly be called the Chorus of Conversation.--STEELE.

The first ingredient in Conversation is Truth, the next Good Sense, the third Good Humor, and
the fourth Wit.--SIR WILLIAM TEMPLE.

HOME LESSONS IN CONVERSATION.

Say nothing unpleasant when it can be avoided.

Avoid satire and sarcasm.

Never repeat a word that was not intended for repetition.

Cultivate the supreme wisdom, which consists less in saying what ought to be said than in not
saying what ought not to be said.

Often cultivate "flashes of silence."

It is the larger half of the conversation to listen well.

Listen to others patiently, especially the poor.

Sharp sayings are an evidence of low breeding.

Shun faultfindings and faultfinders.

Never utter an uncomplimentary word against anyone.

Compliments delicately hinted and sincerely intended are a grace in conversation.

Commendation of gifts and cleverness properly put are in good taste, but praise of beauty is
offensive.

Repeating kind expressions is proper.

Compliments given in a joke may be gratefully received in earnest.

The manner and tone are important parts of a compliment.

Avoid egotism.

Don't talk of yourself, or of your friends or your deeds.

Give no sign that you appreciate your own merits.

Do not become a distributer of the small talk of a community. The smiles of your auditors do
not mean respect.

Avoid giving the impression of one filled with "suppressed egotism."

Never mention your own peculiarities; for culture destroys vanity.

Avoid exaggeration.

Do not be too positive.

Do not talk of display oratory.

Do not try to lead in conversation looking around to enforce silence.

Lay aside affected, silly etiquette for the natural dictates of the heart.

Direct the conversation where others can join with you and impart to you useful information.

Avoid oddity. Eccentricity is shallow vanity.

Be modest.

Be what you wish to seem.

Avoid repeating a brilliant or clever saying.

If you find bashfulness or embarrassment coming upon you, do or say something at once. The
commonest matter gently stated is better than an embarrassing silence. Sometimes changing your
position, or looking into a book for a moment may relieve your embarrassment, and dispel any
settling stiffness.

Avoid telling many stories, or repeating a story more than once in the same company.

Never treat any one as if you simply wanted him to tell stories. People laugh and despise such
a one.

Never tell a coarse story. No wit or preface can make it excusable.

Tell a story, if at all, only as an illustration, and not for itself. Tell it accurately.

Be careful in asking questions for the purpose of starting conversation or drawing out a person,
not to be rude or intrusive.

Never take liberties by staring, or by any rudeness.

Never infringe upon any established regulations among strangers.

Do not always prove yourself to be the one in the right. The right will appear. You need only
give it a chance.

Avoid argument in conversation. It is discourteous to your host.

Cultivate paradoxes in conversation with your peers. They add interest to common-place matters.
To strike the harmless faith of ordinary people in any public idol is waste, but such a movement
with those able to reply is better.

Never discourse upon your ailments.

Never use words of the meaning or pronunciation of which you are uncertain.

Avoid discussing your own or other people's domestic concerns.

Never prompt a slow speaker, as if you had all the ability. In conversing with a foreigner
who may be learning our language, it is excusable to help him in some delicate way.

Never give advice unasked.

Do not manifest impatience.

Do not interrupt another when speaking.

Do not find fault, though you may gently criticise.

Do not appear to notice inaccuracies of speech in others.

Do not always commence a conversation by allusion to the weather.

Do not, when narrating an incident, continually say, "you see," "you know."

Do not allow yourself to lose temper or speak excitedly.

Do not introduce professional or other topics that the company generally cannot take an interest
in.

Do not talk very loud. A firm, clear, distinct, yet mild, gentle, and musical voice has great
power.

Do not be absent-minded, requiring the speaker to repeat what has been said that you may understand.

Do not try to force yourself into the confidence of others.

Do not use profanity, vulgar terms, words of double meaning, or language that will bring the
blush to anyone.

Do not allow yourself to speak ill of the absent one if it can be avoided. The day may come
when some friend will be needed to defend you in your absence.

Do not speak with contempt and ridicule of a locality which you may be visiting. Find something
to truthfully praise and commend; thus make yourself agreeable.

Do not make a pretense of gentility, nor parade the fact that you are a descendant of any notable
family. You must pass for just what you are, and must stand on your own merit.

Do not contradict. In making a correction say, "I beg your pardon, but I had the impression
that it was so and so." Be careful in contradicting, as you may be wrong yourself.

Do not be unduly familiar; you will merit contempt if you are. Neither should you be dogmatic
in your assertions, arrogating to yourself such consequences in your opinions.

Do not be too lavish in your praise of various members of your own family when speaking to
strangers; the person to whom you are speaking may know some faults that you do not.

Do not feel it incumbent upon yourself to carry your point in conversation. Should the person
with whom you are conversing feel the same, your talk may lead into violent argument.

Do not try to pry into the private affairs of others by asking what their profits are, what
things cost, whether Melissa ever had a beau, and why Amarette never got married? All such
questions are extremely impertinent and are likely to meet with rebuke.

Do not whisper in company; do not engage in private conversation; do not speak a foreign language
which the general company present may not understand, unless it is understood that the foreigner
is unable to speak your own language.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TOILET.

OR

The Care of the Person.

IMPORTANT RULES.

1. GOOD APPEARANCE.--The first care of all persons should be for their personal appearance.
Those who are slovenly or careless in their habits are unfit for refined society, and cannot
possibly make a good appearance in it. A well-bred person will always cultivate habits of the
most scrupulous neatness. A gentleman or lady is always well dressed. The garment may be plain
or of coarse material, or even worn "thin and shiny," but if it is carefully brushed and neat,
it can be worn with dignity.

2. PERSONAL CLEANLINESS.--Personal appearance depends greatly on the careful toilet and scrupulous
attention to dress. The first point which marks the gentleman or lady in appearance is rigid
cleanliness. This remark supplies to the body and everything which covers it. A clean skin--only
to be secured by frequent baths--is indispensable.

3. THE TEETH.--The teeth should receive the utmost attention. Many a young man has been disgusted
with a lady by seeing her unclean and discolored teeth. It takes but a few moments, and if
necessary secure some simple tooth powder or rub the teeth thoroughly every day with a linen
handkerchief, and it will give the teeth and mouth a beautiful and clean appearance.

4. THE HAIR AND BEARD.--The hair should be thoroughly brushed and well kept, and the beard
of men properly trimmed. Men should not let their hair grow long and shaggy.

5. UNDERCLOTHING.--The matter of cleanliness extends to all articles of clothing, underwear
as well as the outer clothing. Cleanliness is a mark of true utility. The clothes need not
necessarily be of a rich and expensive quality, but they can all be kept clean. Some persons
have an odor about them that is very offensive, simply on account of their underclothing being
worn too long without washing. This odor of course cannot be detected by the person who wears
the soiled garments, but other persons easily detect it and are offended by it.

6. THE BATH.--No person should think for a moment that they can be popular in society without
regular bathing. A bath should be taken at least once a week, and if the feet perspire they
should be washed several times a week, as the case may require. It is not unfrequent that young
men are seen with dirty ears and neck. This is unpardonable and boorish, and shows gross neglect.
Occasionally a young lady will be called upon unexpectedly when her neck and smiling face are
not emblems of cleanliness. Every lady owes it to herself to be fascinating; every gentleman
is bound, for his own sake, to be presentable; but beyond this there is the obligation to society,
to one's friends, and to those with whom we may be brought in contact.

7. SOILED GARMENTS.--A young man's garments may not be expensive, yet there is no excuse for
wearing a soiled collar and a soiled shirt, or carrying a soiled handkerchief. No one should
appear as though he had slept in a stable, shaggy hair, soiled clothing or garments indifferently
put on and carelessly buttoned. A young man's vest should always be kept buttoned in the presence
of ladies. 8. THE BREATH.--Care should be taken to remedy an offensive breath without delay.
Nothing renders one so unpleasant to one's acquaintance, or is such a source of misery to one's
self. The evil may be from some derangement of the stomach or some defective condition of the
teeth, or catarrhal affection of the throat and nose. See remedies in other portions of the book.

       *       *       *       *       *

A YOUNG MAN'S PERSONAL APPEARANCE.

Dress changes the manners.--VOLTAIRE.

Whose garments wither, shall receive faded smiles.--SHERIDAN KNOWLES.

Men of sense follow fashion so far that they are neither conspicuous for their excess nor peculiar
by their opposition to it.--ANONYMOUS.

1. A well-dressed man does not require so much an extensive as a varied wardrobe. He does not
need a different suit for every season and every occasion, but if he is careful to select clothes
that are simple and not striking or conspicuous, he may use the garment over and over again
without their being noticed, provided they are suitable to the season and the occasion.

2. A clean shirt, collar and cuffs always make a young man look neat and tidy, even if his
clothes are not of the latest pattern and are somewhat threadbare.

3. Propriety is outraged when a man of sixty dresses like a youth or sixteen. It is bad manners
for a gentleman to use perfumes to a noticeable extent. Avoid affecting singularity in dress.
Expensive clothes are no sign of a gentleman.

4. When dressed for company, strive to appear easy and natural.

5. Avoid what is called the "ruffianly style of dress" or the slouchy appearance of a half-unbottoned
vest, and suspenderless pantaloons. That sort of affectation is, if possible, even more disgusting
than the painfully elaborate frippery of the dandy or dude. Keep your clothes well brushed
and keep them cleaned. Slight spots can be removed with a little sponge and soap and water.

6. A gentleman should never wear a high hat unless he has on a frock coat or a dress suit.

7. A man's jewelry should be good and simple. Brass or false jewelry, like other forms of falsehood,
is vulgar. Wearing many cheap decorations is a serious fault.

8. If a man wears a ring it should be on the third finger of the left hand. This is the only
piece of jewelry a man is allowed to wear that does not serve a purpose.

9. Wearing imitations of diamonds is always in very bad taste.

10. Every man looks better in a full beard if he keeps it well trimmed. If a man shaves he
should shave at least every other day, unless he is in the country.

11. The finger-nails should be kept cut, and the teeth should be cleaned every morning, and
kept clear from tarter. A man who does not keep his teeth clean does not look like a gentleman
when he shows them.

       *       *       *       *       *

DRESS.

  We sacrifice to dress, till household joys
  And comforts cease. Dress drains our cellar dry,
  And keeps our larder lean. Puts out our fires,
  And introduces hunger, frost and woe,
  Where peace and hospitality might reign.
  --COWPER

1.

2. LOVE OF DRESS.--To love dress is not to be a slave of fashion; to love dress only is the
test of such homage. To transact the business of charity in a silken dress, and to go in a
carriage to the work, injures neither the work nor the worker. The slave of fashion is one
who assumes the livery of a princess, and then omits the errand of the good human soul; dresses
in elegance, and goes upon no good errand, and thinks and does nothing of value to mankind.

3.

4. SIMPLICITY OF DRESS.--Female lovliness never appears to so good advantage as when set off
by simplicity of dress. No artist ever decks his angels with towering feathers and gaudy jewelry;
and our dear human angels--if they would make good their title to that name--should carefully
avoid ornaments, which properly belong to Indian squaws and African princesses. These tinselries
may serve to give effect on the stage, or upon the ball room floor, but in daily life there
is no substitute for the charm of simplicity. A vulgar taste is not to be disguised by gold
or diamonds. The absence of a true taste and refinement of delicacy cannot be compensated for
by the possession of the most princely fortune. Mind measures gold, but gold cannot measure
mind. Through dress the mind may be read, as through the delicate tissue the lettered page.
A modest woman will dress modestly; a really refined and intelligent woman will bear the marks
of careful selection and faultless taste.

5. PEOPLE OF SENSE.--A coat that has the mark of use upon it, is a recommendation to the people
of sense, and a hat with too much nap, and too high lustre, a derogatory circumstance. The
best coats in our streets are worn on the backs of penniless fops, broken down merchants, clerks
with pitiful salaries, and men that do not pay up. The heaviest gold chains dangle from the
fobs of gamblers and gentlemen of very limited means; costly ornaments on ladies, indicate
to the eyes that are well opened, the fact of a silly lover or husband cramped for funds.

6. PLAIN AND NEAT.--When a pretty woman goes by in plain and neat apparel, it is the presumption
that she has fair expectations, and a husband that can show a balance in his favor. For women
are like books,--too much gilding makes men suspicious, that the binding is the most important
part. The body is the shell of the soul, and the dress is the husk of the body; but the husk
generally tells what the kernel is. As a fashionably dressed young lady passed some gentlemen,
one of them raised his hat, whereupon another, struck by the fine appearance of the lady, made
some inquiries concerning her, and was answered thus: "She makes a pretty ornament in her father's
house, but otherwise is of no use."

7.

8.

9. DRESS AFFECTS OUR MANNERS.--A man who is badly dressed, feels chilly, sweaty, and prickly.
He stammers, and does not always tell the truth. He means to, perhaps, but he can't. He is
half distracted about his pantaloons, which are much to short, and are constantly hitching
up; or his frayed jacket and crumpled linen harrow his soul, and quite unman him. He treads
on the train of a lady's dress, and says, "Thank you", sits down on his hat, and wishes the
"desert were his dwelling place."

1. THE HIGHEST STYLE OF BEAUTY.--The highest style of beauty to be found in nature pertains
to the human form, as animated and lighted up by the intelligence within. It is the expression
of the soul that constitutes this superior beauty. It is that which looks out of the eye, which
sits in calm majesty on the brow, lurks on the lip, smiles on the cheek, is set forth in the
chiselled lines and features of the countenance, in the general contour of figure and form,
in the movement, and gesture, and tone; it is this looking out of the invisible spirit that
dwells within, this manifestation of the higher nature, that we admire and love; this constitutes
to us the beauty of our species.

2. BEAUTY WHICH PERISHES NOT.--There is a beauty which perishes not. It is such as the angels wear.

3.

4.

5. FADELESS BEAUTY.--There cannot be a picture without its bright spots; and the steady contemplation
of what is bright in others, has a reflex influence upon the beholder. It reproduces what it
reflects. Nay, it seems to leave an impress even upon the countenance. The feature, from having
a dark, sinister aspect, becomes open, serene, and sunny. A countenance so impressed, has neither
the vacant stare of the idiot, nor the crafty, penetrating look of the basilisk, but the clear,
placid aspect of truth and goodness. The woman who has such a face is beautiful. She has a
beauty which changes not with the features, which fades not with years. It is beauty of expression.
It is the only kind of beauty which can be relied upon for a permanent influence with the other
sex. The violet will soon cease to smile. Flowers must fade. The love that has nothing but
beauty to sustain it, soon withers away.

6. A PRETTY WOMAN PLEASES THE EYE, a good woman, the heart. The one is a jewel, the other a
treasure. Invincible fidelity, good humor, and complacency of temper, outlive all the charms
of a fine face, and make the decay of it invisible. That is true beauty which has not only
a substance, but a spirit; a beauty that we must intimately know to justly appreciate.

7. THE WOMAN YOU LOVE BEST.--Beauty, dear reader, is probably the woman you love best, but
we trust it is the beauty of soul and character, which sits in calm majesty on the brow, lurks
on the lip, and will outlive what is called a fine face.

8. THE WEARING OF ORNAMENTS.--Beauty needs not the foreign aid of ornament, but is when unadorned
adorned the most, is a trite observation; but with a little qualification it is worthy of general
acceptance. Aside from the dress itself, ornaments should be very sparingly used--at any rate,
the danger lies in over-loading oneself, and not in using too few. A young girl, and especially
one of a light and airy style of beauty, should never wear gems. A simple flower in her hair
or on her bosom is all that good taste will permit. When jewels or other ornaments are worn,
they should be placed where you desire the eye of the spectator to rest, leaving the parts
to which you do not want attention called as plain and negative as possible. There is no surer
sign of vulgarity than a profusion of heavy jewelry carried about upon the person.

       *       *       *       *       *

SENSIBLE HELPS TO BEAUTY.

1. FOR SCRAWNY NECK.--Take off your tight collars, feather boas and such heating things. Wash
neck and chest with hot water, then rub in sweet oil all that you can work in. Apply this every
night before you retire and leave the skin damp with it while you sleep.

2. FOR RED HANDS.--Keep your feet warm by soaking them often in hot water, and keep your hands
out of the water as much as possible. Rub your hands with the skin of a lemon and it will whiten
them. If your skin will bear glycerine after you have washed, pour into the palm a little glycerine
and lemon juice mixed, and rub over the hands and wipe off.

3. NECK AND FACE.--Do not bathe the neck and face just before or after being out of doors.
It tends to wrinkle the skin.

4. SCOWLS.--Never allow yourself to scowl, even if the sun be in your eyes. That scowl will
soon leave its trace and no beauty will outlive it.

5. WRINKLED FOREHEAD.--If you wrinkle your forehead when you talk or read, visit an oculist
and have your eyes tested, and then wear glasses to fit them.

6. OLD LOOKS.--Sometimes your face looks old because it is tired. Then apply the following
wash and it will make you look younger: Put three drops of ammonia, a little borax, a tablespoonful
of bay rum, and a few drops of camphor into warm water and apply to your face. Avoid getting
it into your eyes.

7. THE BEST COSMETIC.--Squeeze the juice of a lemon into a pint of sweet milk. Wash the face
with it every night and in the morning wash off with warm rain water. This will produce a very
beautiful effect upon the skin.

8. SPOTS ON THE FACE.--Moles and many other discolorations may be removed from the face by
a preparation composed of one part chemically pure carbolic acid and two parts pure glycerine.
Touch the spots with a camel's-hair pencil, being careful that the preparation does not come
in contact with the adjacent skin. Five minutes after touching, bathe with soft water and apply
a little vaseline. It may be necessary to repeat the operation, but if persisted in, the blemishes
will be entirely removed.

9. WRINKLES.--This prescription is said to cure wrinkles: Take one ounce of white wax and melt
it to a gentle heat. Apply twice a day, rubbing the wrinkles the wrong way. Always use tepid
water for washing the face.

10. THE HAIR.--The hair must be kept free from dust or it will fall out. One of the best things
for cleaning it, is a raw egg rubbed into the roots and then washed out in several waters.
The egg furnishes material for the hair to grow on, while keeping the scalp perfectly clean.
Apply once a month.

11. LOSS OF HAIR.--When through sickness or headache the hair falls out, the following tonic
may be applied with good effect: Use one ounce of glycerine, one ounce of bay rum, one pint
of strong sage tea, and apply every other night rubbing well into the scalp.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW TO KEEP THE BLOOM AND GRACE OF YOUTH.

THE SECRET OF ITS PRESERVATION.

1. The question most often asked by women is regarding the art of retaining, with advancing
years, the bloom and grace of youth. This secret is not learned through the analysis of chemical
compounds, but by a thorough study of nature's laws peculiar to their sex. It is useless for
women with wrinkled faces, dimmed eyes and blemished skins to seek for external applications
of beautifying balms and lotions to bring the glow of life and health into the face, and yet
there are truths, simple yet wonderful, whereby the bloom of early life can be restored and
retained, as should be the heritage of all God's children, sending the light of beauty into
every woman's face. The secret:

2. Do not bathe in hard water; soften it with a few drops of ammonia, or a little borax.

3. Do not bathe the face while it is very warm, and never use very cold water.

4.

5. Do not rub your face with a coarse towel.

6. Do not believe you can remove wrinkles by filling in the crevices with powder. Give your
face a Russian bath every night; that is, bathe it with water so hot that you wonder how you
can bear it, and then, a minute after, with moderately cold water, that will make your face
glow with warmth; dry it with a soft towel.

       *       *       *       *       *

FORM AND DEFORMITY.

1. At the age of seventeen or eighteen, our "young ladies" are sorry specimens of feminality;
and palpitators, cosmetics and all the modern paraphernalia are required to make them appear
fresh and blooming. Man is equally at fault.

2. Then by what? Chiefly in and by love, which is specially adapted thus to develop this maturity.

3. The physical contour of these representations plainly exhibits the difference in structure,
and also implies difference of function.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW TO DETERMINE A PERFECT HUMAN FIGURE.

The proportions of the perfect human figure are strictly mathematical. The whole figure is
six times the length of the foot. Whether the form be slender or plump, this rule holds good.
Any deviation from it is a departure from the highest beauty of proportion. The Greeks made
all their statues according to this rule. The face, from the highest point of the forehead,
where the hair begins, to the end of the chin, is one-tenth of the whole stature. The hand,
from the wrist to the end of the middle finger, is the same. The chest is a fourth, and from
the nipples to the top of the head is the same. From the top of the chest to the highest point
of the forehead is a seventh. If the length of the face, from the roots of the hair to the
chin, be divided into three equal parts, the first division determines the point where the
eyebrows meet, and the second the place of the nostrils. The navel is the central point of
the human body, and if a man should lie on his back with his arms and legs extended, the periphery
of the circle which might be described around him, with the navel for its center, would touch
the extremities of his hands and feet. The height from the feet to the top of the head is the
same as the distance from the extremity of one hand to the extremity of the other when the
arms are extended.

The Venus de Medici is considered the most perfect model of the female forms, and has been
the admiration of the world for ages. Alexander Walker, after minutely describing this celebrated
statue, says: "All these admirable characteristics of the female form, the mere existence of
which in woman must, one is tempted to imagine, be even to herself, a source of ineffable pleasure,
these constitute a being worthy, as the personification of beauty, of occupying the temples
of Greece; present an object finer, alas, than Nature even seems capable of producing; and
offer to all nations and ages a theme of admiration and delight." Well might Thomson say:

  So stands the statue that enchants the world,
  So, bending, tries to vail the matchless boast--
  The mingled beauties of exulting Greece.

We beg our readers to observe the form of the waist (evidently innocent of corsets and tight
dresses) of this model woman, and also that of the Greek Slave in the accompanying outlines.
These forms are such as unperverted nature and the highest art alike require. To compress the
waist, and thereby change its form, pushing the ribs inward, displacing the vital organs, and
preventing the due expansion of the lungs, is as destructive to beauty as it is to health.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HISTORY, MYSTERY, BENEFITS AND INJURIES OF THE CORSET.

1. The origin of the corset is lost in remote antiquity. The figures of the early Egyptian
women show clearly an artificial shape of the waist produced by some style of corset. A similar
style of dress must also have prevailed among the ancient Jewish maidens; for Isaiah, in calling
upon the women to put away their personal adornments, says: "Instead of a girdle there shall
be a rent, and instead of a stomacher (corset) a girdle of sackcloth."

2. Homer also tells us of the cestus or girdle of Venus, which was borrowed by the haughty
Juno with a view to increasing her personal attractions, that Jupiter might be a more tractable
and orderly husband.

3. Coming down to the later times, we find the corset was used in France and England as early
as the 12th century.

4. The most extensive and extreme use of the corset occurred in the 16th century, during the
reign of Catherine de Medici of France and Queen Elizabeth of England. With Catherine de Medici
a thirteen-inch waist measurement was considered the standard of fashion, while a thick waist
was an abomination. No lady could consider her figure of proper shape unless she could span
her waist with her two hands. To produce this result a strong rigid corset was worn night and
day until the waist was laced down to the required size. Then over this corset was placed the
steel apparatus shown in the illustration on next page. This corset-cover reached from the
hip to the throat, and produced a rigid figure over which the dress would fit with perfect
smoothness.

5. During the 18th century corsets were largely made from a species of leather known as "Bend,"
which was not unlike that used for shoe soles, and measured nearly a quarter of an inch in
thickness. One of the most popular corsets of the time was the corset and stomacher shown in
the accompanying illustration.

6. About the time of the French Revolution a reaction set in against tight lacing, and for
a time there was a return to the early classical Greek costume. This style of dress prevailed,
with various modifications, until about 1810 when corsets and tight lacing again returned with
threefold fury. Buchan, a prominent writer of this period, says that it was by no means uncommon
to see "a mother lay her daughter down upon the carpet, and, placing her foot upon her back,
break half a dozen laces in tightening her stays."

7. It is reserved to our own time to demonstrate that corsets and tight lacing do not necessarily
go hand in hand. Distortion and feebleness are not beauty. A proper proportion should exist
between the size of the waist and the breadth of the shoulders and hips, and if the waist is
diminished below this proportion, it suggests disproportion and invalidism rather than grace
and beauty.

8. The perfect corset is one which possesses just that degree of rigidity which will prevent
it from wrinkling, but will at the same time allow freedom in the bending and twisting of the
body. Corsets boned with whalebone, horn or steel are necessarily stiff, rigid and uncomfortable.
After a few days' wear the bones or steels become bent and set in position, or, as more frequently
happens, they break and cause injury or discomfort to the wearer.

9. About seven years ago an article was discovered for the stiffening of corsets, which has
revolutionized the corset industry of the world. This article is manufactured from the natural
fibers of the Mexican Ixtle plant, and is known as Coraline. It consists of straight, stiff
fibers like bristles bound together into a cord by being wound with two strands of thread passing
in opposite directions. This produces an elastic fiber intermediate in stiffness between twine
and whalebone. It cannot break, but it possesses all the stiffness and flexibility necessary
to hold the corset in shape and prevent its wrinkling.

We congratulate the ladies of to-day upon the advantages they enjoy over their sisters of two
centuries ago, in the forms and the graceful and easy curves of the corsets now made as compared
with those of former times.

       *       *       *       *       *

TIGHT-LACING.

It destroys natural beauty and creates an unpleasant and irritable temper. A tight-laced chest
and a good disposition cannot go together. The human form has been molded by nature, the best
shape is undoubtedly that which she has given it. To endeavor to render it more elegant by
artificial means is to change it; to make it much smaller below and much larger above is to
destroy its beauty; to keep it cased up in a kind of domestic cuirass is not only to deform
it, but to expose the internal parts to serious injury. Under such compression as is commonly
practiced by ladies, the development of the bones, which are still tender, does not take place
conformably to the intention of nature, because nutrition is necessarily stopped, and they
consequently become twisted and deformed.

Those who wear these appliances of tight-lacing often complain that they cannot sit upright
without them--are sometimes, indeed, compelled to wear them during all the twenty-four hours;
a fact which proves to what extent such articles weaken the muscles of the trunk. The injury
does not fall merely on the internal structure of the body, but also on its beauty, and on
the temper and feelings with which that beauty is associated. Beauty is in reality but another
name for expression of countenance, which is the index of sound health, intelligence, good
feelings and peace of mind. All are aware that uneasy feelings, existing habitually in the
breast, speedily exhibit their signature on the countenance, and that bitter thoughts or a
bad temper spoil the human expression of its comeliness and grace.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CARE OF THE HAIR.

1. THE COLOR OF THE HAIR.--The color of the hair corresponds with that of the skin--being dark
or black, with a dark complexion, and red or yellow with a fair skin. When a white skin is
seen in conjunction with black hair, as among the women of Syria and Barbary, the apparent
exception arises from protection from the sun's rays, and opposite colors are often found among
people of one prevailing feature. Thus red-haired Jews are not uncommon, though the nation
in general have dark complexion and hair.

2. THE IMPERISHABLE NATURE OF HAIR.--The imperishable nature of hair arises from the combination
of salt and metals in its composition. In old tombs and on mummies it has been found in a perfect
state, after a lapse of over two thousand years. There are many curious accounts proving the
indestructibility of the human hair.

3. TUBULAR.--In the human family the hairs are tubular, the tubes being intersected by partitions,
resembling in some degree the cellular tissue of plants. Their hollowness prevents incumbrance
from weight, while their power of resistance is increased by having their traverse sections
rounded in form.

4. CAUTIONS.--It is ascertained that a full head of hair, beard and whiskers, are a prevention
against colds and consumptions. Occasionally, however, it is found necessary to remove the
hair from the head, in cases of fever or disease, to stay the inflammatory symptoms, and to
relieve the brain. The head should invariably be kept cool. Close night-caps are unhealthy,
and smoking-caps and coverings for the head within doors are alike detrimental to the free
growth of the hair, weakening it, and causing it to fall out.

HOW TO BEAUTIFY AND PRESERVE THE HAIR.

1. TO BEAUTIFY THE HAIR.--Keep the head clean, the pores of the skin open, and the whole circulatory
system in a healthy condition, and you will have no need of bear's grease (alias hog's lard).
Where there is a tendency in the hair to fall off on account of the weakness or sluggishness
of the circulation, or an unhealthy state of the skin, cold water and friction with a tolerably
stiff brush are probably the best remedial agents.

2. BARBER'S SHAMPOOS.--Are very beneficial if properly prepared. They should not be made too
strong. Avoid strong shampoos of any kind. Great caution should be exercised in this matter.

3. CARE OF THE HAIR.--To keep the hair healthy, keep the head clean. Brush the scalp well with
a stiff brush, while dry. Then wash with castile soap, and rub into the roots bay rum, brandy
or camphor water. This done twice a month will prove beneficial. Brush the scalp thoroughly
twice a week. Dampen the hair with soft water at the toilet, and do not use oil.

4. HAIR WASH.--Take one ounce of borax, half an ounce of camphor powder--these ingredients
fine--and dissolve them in one quart of boiling water. When cool, the solution will be ready
for use. Dampen the hair frequently. This wash is said not only to cleanse and beautify, but
to strengthen the hair, preserve the color and prevent baldness.

ANOTHER EXCELLENT WASH.--The best wash we know for cleansing and softening the hair is an egg
beaten up and rubbed well into the hair, and afterwards washed out with several washes of warm
water.

5. THE ONLY SENSIBLE AND SAFE HAIR OIL.--The following is considered a most valuable preparation:
Take of extract of yellow Peruvian bark, fifteen grains; extract of rhatany root, eight grains;
extract of burdoch root and oil of nutmegs (fixed), of each two drachms; camphor (dissolve
with spirits of wine), fifteen grains; beef marrow, two ounces; best olive oil, one ounce;
citron juice, half a drachm; aromatic essential oil, as much as sufficient to render it fragrant;
mix and make into an ointment. Two drachms of bergamot, and a few drops of attar of roses would
suffice.

6. HAIR WASH.--A good hair wash is soap and water, and the oftener it is applied the freer
the surface of the head will be from scurf. The hair-brush should also be kept in requisition
morning and evening.

7. TO REMOVE SUPERFLUOUS HAIR.--With those who dislike the use of arsenic, the following is
used for removing superfluous hair from the skin: Lime, one ounce; carbonate of potash, two
ounces; charcoal powder, one drachm. For use, make it into a paste with a little warm water,
and apply it to the part, previously shaved close. As soon as it has become thoroughly dry,
it may be washed off with a little warm water.

8. COLORING FOR EYELASHES AND EYEBROWS.--In eyelashes the chief element of beauty consists
in their being long and glossy; the eyebrows should be finely arched and clearly divided from
each other. The most innocent darkener of the brow is the expressed juice of the elderberry,
or a burnt clove.

9. CRIMPING HAIR.--To make the hair stay in crimps, take five cents worth of gum arabic and
add to it just enough boiling water to dissolve it. When dissolved, add enough alcohol to make
it rather thin. Let this stand all night and then bottle it to prevent the alcohol from evaporating.
This put on the hair at night, after it is done up in papers or pins, will make it stay in
crimp the hottest day, and is perfectly harmless.

10. TO CURL THE HAIR.--There is no preparation that will make naturally straight hair assume
a permanent curl. The following will keep the hair in curl for a short time: Take borax, two
ounces; gum arabic, one drachm; and hot water, not boiling, one quart; stir, and, as soon as
the ingredients are dissolved, add three tablespoonfuls of strong spirits of camphor. On retiring
to rest, wet the hair with the above liquid, and roll in twists of paper as usual. Do not disturb
the hair until morning, when untwist and form into ringlets.

11. FOR FALLING OR LOOSENING OF THE HAIR.--Take:
  Alcohol, a half pint.
  Salt, as much as will dissolve.
  Glycerine, a tablespoonful.
  Flour of sulphur, teaspoonful. Mix.

Rub on the scalp every morning.

12. TO DARKEN THE HAIR WITHOUT BAD EFFECTS.--Take:
  Blue vitriol (powdered), one drachm.
  Alcohol, one ounce.
  Essence of roses, ten drops.
  Rain-water, a half-pint.

Shake together until they are thoroughly dissolved.

13. GRAY HAIR.--There are no known means by which the hair can be prevented from turning gray,
and none which can restore it to its original hue, except through the process of dyeing. The
numerous "hair color restorers" which are advertised are chemical preparations which act in
the manner of a dye or as a paint, and are nearly always dependent for their power on the presence
of lead. This mineral, applied to the skin, for a long time, will lead to the most disastrous
maladies--lead-palsy, lead colic, and other symptoms of poisoning. It should, therefore, never
be used for this purpose.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW TO CURE PIMPLES OR OTHER FACIAL ERUPTIONS.

1. It requires self-denial to get rid of pimples, for persons troubled with them will persist
in eating fat meats and other articles of food calculated to produce them. Avoid the use of
rich gravies, or pastry, or anything of the kind in excess. Take all the out-door exercise
you can and never indulge in a late supper. Retire at a reasonable hour, and rise early in
the morning. Sulphur to purify the blood may be taken three times a week--a thimbleful in a
glass of milk before breakfast. It takes some time for the sulphur to do its work, therefore
persevere in its use till the humors, or pimples, or blotches, disappear. Avoid getting wet
while taking the sulphur.

2. Persons subject to skin eruptions should avoid very salty or fat food. A dose of Epsom salts
occasionally might prove beneficial.

3. Wash the face in a dilution of carbolic acid, allowing one teaspoonful to a pint of water.
This is an excellent and purifying lotion, and may be used on the most delicate skins. Be careful
about letting this wash get into the eyes.

4. Oil of sweet almonds, one ounce; fluid potash, one drachm. Shake well together, and then
add rose water, one ounce; pure water, six ounces. Mix. Rub the pimples or blotches for some
minutes with a rough towel, and then dab them with the lotion.

5. Dissolve one ounce of borax, and sponge the face with it every night. When there are insects,
rub on flower of sulphur, dry after washing, rub well and wipe dry; use plenty of castile soap.

6. Dilute corrosive sublimate with oil of almonds. A few days' application will remove them.

       *       *       *       *       *

BLACK-HEADS AND FLESH WORMS.

This is a minute little creature, scientifically called Demodex folliculorum, hardly visible
to the naked eye, with comparatively large fore body, a more slender hind body and eight little
stumpy processes that do duty as legs. No specialized head is visible, although of course there
is a mouth orifice. These creatures live on the sweat glands or pores of the human face, and
owing to the appearance that they give to the infested pores, they are usually known as "black-heads."
It is not at all uncommon to see an otherwise pretty face disfigured by these ugly creatures,
although the insects themselves are nearly transparent white. The black appearance is really
due the accumulation of dirt which gets under the edges of the skin of the enlarged sweat glands
and cannot be removed in the ordinary way by washing, because the abnormal, hardened secretion
of the gland itself becomes stained. These insects are so lowly organized that it is almost
impossible to satisfactory deal with them and they sometimes cause the continual festering
of the skin which they inhabit.

REMEDY.--Press them out with a hollow key or with the thumb and fingers, and apply a mixture
of sulphur and cream every evening. Wash every morning with the best toilet soap, or wash the
face with hot water with a soft flannel at bedtime.

       *       *       *       *       *

LOVE. Common as light is love,
  And its familiar voice wearies not ever.--SHELLEY.

  Let those love now who never loved before,
  Let those that always loved now love the more.

1. LOVE BLENDS YOUNG HEARTS.--Love blends young hearts in blissful unity, and, for the time,
so ignores past ties and affections, as to make willing separation of the son from his father's
house, and the daughter from all the sweet endearments of her childhood's home, to go out together
and rear for themselves an altar, around which shall cluster all the cares and delights, the
anxieties and sympathies, of the family relationship; this love, if pure, unselfish, and discreet,
constitutes the chief usefulness and happiness of human life.

2. WITHOUT LOVE.--Without love there would be no organized households, and, consequently, none
of that earnest endeavor for competence and respectability, which is the mainspring to human
effort; none of those sweet, softening, restraining and elevating influences of domestic life,
which can alone fill the earth with the glory of the Lord and make glad the city of Zion. This
love is indeed heaven upon earth; but above would not be heaven without it; where there is
not love, there is fear; but, "love casteth out fear." And yet we naturally do offend what
we most love.

3. LOVE IS THE SUN OF LIFE.--Most beautiful in morning and evening, but warmest and steadiest
at noon. It is the sun of the soul. Life without love is worse than death; a world without
a sun. The love which does not lead to labor will soon die out, and the thankfulness which
does not embody itself in sacrifices is already changing to gratitude. Love is not ripened
in one day, nor in many, nor even in a human lifetime. It is the oneness of soul with soul
in appreciation and perfect trust. To be blessed it must rest in that faith in the Divine which
underlies every other motion. To be true, it must be eternal as God himself.

4. LOVE IS DEPENDENT.--Remember that love is dependent upon forms; courtesy of etiquette guards
and protects courtesy of heart. How many hearts have been lost irrevocably, and how many averted
eyes and cold looks have been gained from what seemed, perhaps, but a trifling negligence of forms.

5. RADICAL DIFFERENCES.--Men and women should not be judged by the same rules. There are many
radical differences in their affectional natures.

6.

7. A LADY'S COMPLEXION.--He who loves a lady's complexion, form and features, loves not her
true self, but her soul's old clothes. The love that has nothing but beauty to sustain it,
soon withers and dies. The love that is fed with presents always requires feeding. Love, and
love only, is the loan for love. The purest joy we can experience in one we love, is to see
that person a source of happiness to others. When you are with the person loved, you have no
sense of being bored. This humble and trivial circumstance is the great test--the only sure
and abiding test of love.

8. TWO SOULS COME TOGETHER.--When two souls come together, each seeking to magnify the other,
each in subordinate sense worshiping the other, each help the other; the two flying together
so that each wing-beat of the one helps each wing-beat of the other--when two souls come together
thus, they are lovers. They who unitedly move themselves away from grossness and from earth,
toward the throne of crystaline and the pavement golden, are, indeed, true lovers.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE POWER AND PECULIARITIES OF LOVE.

LOVE IS A TONIC AND A REMEDY FOR DISEASE, MAKES PEOPLE LOOK YOUNGER, CREATES INDUSTRY, ETC.

  "All thoughts, all passions, all desires.

1. It is a physiological fact long demonstrated that persons possessing a loving disposition
borrow less of the cares of life, and also live much longer than persons with a strong, narrow
and selfish nature. Persons who love scenery, love domestic animals, show great attachment
for all friends; love their home dearly and find interest and enchantment in almost everything
have qualities of mind and heart which indicate good health and a happy disposition.

2. Persons who love music and are constantly humming or whistling a tune, are persons that
need not be feared, they are kind-hearted and with few exceptions possess a loving disposition.
Very few good musicians become criminals.

3. Parents that cultivate a love among their children will find that the same feeling will
soon be manifested in their children's disposition. Sunshine in the hearts of the parents will
blossom in the lives of the children. The parent who continually cherishes a feeling of dislike
and rebellion in his soul, cultivating moral hatred against his fellow-man, will soon find
the same things manifested by his son. As the son resembles his father in looks so he will
to a certain extent resemble him in character. Love in the heart of the parent will beget kindness
and affection in the heart of a child. Continuous scolding and fretting in the home will soon
make love a stranger.

4. If you desire to cultivate love, create harmony in all your feelings and faculties. Remember
that all that is pure, holy and virtuous in love flows from the deepest fountain of the human
soul. Poison the fountain and you change virtue to vice, and happiness to misery.

5. Love strengthens health, and disappointment cultivates disease. A person in love will invariably
enjoy the best of health. Ninety-nine per cent. of our strong constitutioned men, now in physical
ruin, have wrecked themselves on the breakers of an unnatural love. Nothing but right love
and a right marriage will restore them to health.

6. All men feel much better for going a courting, providing they court purely. Nothing tears
the life out of man more than lust, vulgar thoughts and immoral conduct. The libertine or harlot
has changed love, God's purest gift to man, into lust. They cannot acquire love in its purity
again, the sacred flame has vanished forever. Love is pure, and cannot be found in the heart
of a seducer.

7. A woman is never so bright and full of health as when deeply in love. Many sickly and frail
women are snatched from the clutches of some deadly disease and restored to health by falling
in love.

8. It is a long established fact that married persons are healthier than unmarried persons;
thus it proves that health and happiness belong to the home. Health depends upon mind. Love
places the mind into a delightful state and quickens every human function, makes the blood
circulate and weaves threads of joy into cables of domestic love.

9. An old but true proverb: "A true man loving one woman will speak well of all women. A true
woman loving one man will speak well of all men. A good wife praises all men, but praises her
husband most. A good man praises all women, but praises his wife most."

10. Persons deeply in love become peculiarly pleasant, winning and tender. It is said that
a musician can never excel or an artist do his best until he has been deeply in love. A good
orator, a great statesman or great men in general are greater and better for having once been
thoroughly in love. A man who truly loves his wife and home is always a safe man to trust.

11. Love makes people look younger in years. People in unhappy homes look older and more worn
and fatigued. A woman at thirty, well courted and well married, looks five or ten years younger
than a woman of the same age unhappily married. Old maids and bachelors always look older than
they are. A flirting widow always looks younger than an old maid of like age.

12. Love renders women industrious and frugal, and a loving husband spends lavishly on a loved
wife and children, though miserly towards others.

13. Love cultivates self-respect and produces beauty. Beauty in walk and beauty in looks; a
girl in love is at her best; it brings out the finest traits of her character, she walks more
erect and is more generous and forgiving; her voice is sweeter and she makes happy all about
her. She works better, sings better and is better.

14. Now in conclusion, a love marriage is the best life insurance policy; it pays dividends
every day, while every other insurance policy merely promises to pay after death. Remember
that statistics demonstrate that married people outlive old maids and old bachelors by a goodly
number of years and enjoy healthier and happier lives.

       *       *       *       *       *

AMATIVENESS OR CONNUBIAL LOVE.

1. MULTIPLYING THE RACE.--Some means for multiplying our race is necessary to prevent its extinction
by death. Propagation and death appertain to man's earthly existence. If the Deity had seen
fit to bring every member of the human family into being by a direct act of creative power,
without the agency of parents, the present wise and benevolent arrangements of husbands and
wives, parents and children, friends and neighbors, would have been superseded, and all opportunities
for exercising parental and connubial love, in which so much enjoyment is taken, cut off. But
the domestic feelings and relations, as now arranged, must strike every philosophical observer
as inimitably beautiful and perfect--as the offspring of infinite Wisdom and Goodness combined.

2. AMATIVENESS AND ITS COMBINATIONS constitute their origin, counterpart, and main medium of
manifestation. Its primary function is connubial love. From it, mainly, spring those feelings
which exist between the sexes as such and result in marriage and offspring. Combined with the
higher sentiments, it gives rise to all those reciprocal kind feelings and nameless courtesies
which each sex manifests towards the other; refining and elevating both, promoting gentility
and politeness, and greatly increasing social and general happiness.

3. RENDERS MEN MORE POLITE TO WOMEN.--So far from being in the least gross or indelicate, its
proper exercise is pure, chaste, virtuous, and even an ingredient in good manners. It is this
which renders men always more polite towards women than to one another, and more refined in
their society, and which makes women more kind, grateful, genteel and tender towards men than
women. It makes mothers love their sons more than their daughters, and fathers more attached
to their daughters. Man's endearing recollections of his mother or wife form his most powerful
incentives to virtue, study, and good deeds, as well as restraints upon his vicious inclinations;
and, in proportion as a young man is dutiful and affectionate to his mother, will he be fond
of his wife; for, this faculty is the parent of both.

4. ALL SHOULD CULTIVATE THE FACULTY OF AMATIVENESS OR CONNUBIAL LOVE.--Study the personal charms
and mental accomplishments of the other sex by ardent admirers of beautiful forms, and study
graceful movements and elegant manners, and remember, much depends upon the tones and accents
of the voice. Never be gruff if you desire to be winning. Seek and enjoy and reciprocate fond
looks and feelings. Before you can create favorable impressions you must first be honest and
sincere and natural, and your conquest will be sure and certain.

       *       *       *       *       *

LOVE AND COMMON-SENSE.

1. Do not love her because she goes to the altar with her head full of book learning, her hands
of no earthly use, save for the piano and brush; because she has no conception of the duties
and responsibilities of a wife; because she hates housework, hates its everlasting routine
and ever recurring duties; because she hates children and will adopt every means to evade motherhood;
because she loves her ease, loves to have her will supreme, loves, oh how well, to be free
to go and come, to let the days slip idly by, to be absolved from all responsibility, to live
without labor, without care? Will you love her selfish, shirking, calculating nature after
twenty years of close companionship?

2. Do you love him because he is a man, and therefore, no matter how weak mentally, morally
or physically he may be, he has vested in him the power to save you from the ignominy of an
old maid's existence? Because you would rather be Mrs. Nobody, than make the effort to be Miss
Somebody? because you have a great empty place in your head and heart that nothing but a man
can fill? because you feel you cannot live without him? God grant the time may never come when
you cannot live with him.

3. Do you love her because she is a thoroughly womanly woman; for her tender sympathetic nature;
for the jewels of her life, which are absolute purity of mind and heart; for the sweet sincerity
of her disposition; for her loving, charitable thought; for her strength of character? because
she is pitiful to the sinful, tender to the sorrowful, capable, self-reliant, modest, true-hearted?
in brief, because she is the embodiment of all womanly virtues?

4. Do you love him because he is a manly man; because the living and operating principle of
his life is a tender reverence for all women; because his love is the overflow of the best
part of his nature; because he has never soiled his soul with an unholy act or his lips with
an oath; because mentally he is a man among men; because physically he stands head and shoulders
above the masses; because morally he is far beyond suspicion, in his thought, word or deed?
because his earnest manly consecrated life is a mighty power on God's side?

5. But there always has been and always will be unhappy marriages until men learn what husbandhood
means; how to care for that tenderly matured, delicately constituted being, that he takes into
his care and keeping. That if her wonderful adjusted organism is overtaxed and overburdened,
her happiness, which is largely dependent upon her health, is destroyed.

6. Until men give the women they marry the undivided love of their heart; until constancy is
the key-note of a life which speaks eloquently of clean thoughts and clean hearts.

7. Until men and women recognize that self-control in a man, and modesty in a woman, will bring
a mutual respect that years of wedded life will only strengthen. Until they recognize that
love is the purest and holiest of all things known to humanity, will marriage continue to bring
unhappiness and discontent, instead of that comfort and restful peace which all loyal souls
have a right to expect and enjoy.

8. Be sensible and marry a sensible, honest and industrious companion, and happiness through
life will be your reward.

       *       *       *       *       *

WHAT WOMEN LOVE IN MEN.

1. Women naturally love courage, force and firmness in men. The ideal man in a woman's eye
must be heroic and brave. Woman naturally despises a coward, and she has little or no respect
for a bashful man.

2. Woman naturally loves her lord and master. Women who desperately object to be overruled,
nevertheless admire men who overrule them, and few women would have any respect for a man whom
they could completely rule and control.

3. Man is naturally the protector of woman; as the male wild animal of the forest protects
the female, so it is natural for man to protect his wife and children, and therefore woman
admires those qualities in a man which make him a protector.

4. LARGE MEN.--Women naturally love men of strength, size and fine physique, a tall, large
and strong man rather than a short, small and weak man. A woman always pities a weakly man,
but rarely ever has any love for him.

5. SMALL AND WEAKLY MEN.--All men would be of good size in frame and flesh, were it not for
the infirmities visited upon them by the indiscretion of parents and ancestors of generations
before.

6. YOUTHFUL SEXUAL EXCITEMENT.--There are many children born healthy and vigorous who destroy
the full vigor of their generative organs in youth by self-abuse, and if they survive and marry,
their children will have small bones, small frames and sickly constitutions. It is therefore
not strange that instinct should lead women to admire men not touched with these symptoms of
physical debility.

7. GENEROSITY.--Woman generally loves a generous man. Religion absorbs a great amount of money
in temples, churches, ministerial salaries, etc., and ambition and appetite absorb countless
millions, yet woman receives more gifts from man than all these combined: she loves a generous
giver. Generosity and Gallantry are the jewels which she most admires. A woman receiving presents
from a man implies that she will pay him back in love, and the woman who accepts a man's presents,
and does not respect him, commits a wrong which is rarely ever forgiven.

8. INTELLIGENCE.--Above all other qualities in man, woman admires his intelligence. Intelligence
is man's woman captivating card. This character in woman is illustrated by an English army
officer, as told by O.S. Fowler, betrothed in marriage to a beautiful, loving heiress, summoned
to India, who wrote back to her:

"I have lost an eye, a leg, an arm, and been so badly marred and begrimmed besides, that you
never could love this poor, maimed soldier. Yet, I love you too well to make your life wretched
by requiring you to keep your marriage-vow with me, from which I hereby release you. Find among
English peers one physically more perfect, whom you can love better."

She answered, as all genuine women must answer:

"Your noble mind, your splendid talents, your martial prowess which maimed you, are what I
love. As long as you retain sufficient body to contain the casket of your soul, which alone
is what I admire, I love you all the same, and long to make you mine forever."

9. SOFT MEN.--All women despise soft and silly men more than all other defects in their character.
Woman never can love a man whose conversation is flat and insipid. Every man seeking woman's
appreciation or love should always endeavor to show his intelligence and manifest an interest
in books and daily papers. He should read books and inform himself so that he can talk intelligently
upon the various topics of the day. Even an ignorant woman always loves superior intelligence.

10. SEXUAL VIGOR.--Women love sexual vigor in men. This is human nature. Weakly and delicate
fathers have weak and puny children, though the mother may be strong and robust. A weak mother
often bears strong children, if the father is physically and sexually vigorous. Consumption
is often inherited from fathers, because they furnish the body, yet more women die with it
because of female obstructions. Hence women love passion in men, because it endows their offspring
with strong functional vigor.

11. PASSIONATE MEN--The less passion any woman possesses, the more she prizes a strong passionate
man. This is a natural consequence, for if she married one equally passionless, their children
would be poorly endowed or they would have none; she therefore admires him who makes up the
deficiency. Hence very amorous men prefer quiet, modest and reserved women.

12. HOMELY MEN are admired by women if they are large, strong and vigorous and possess a good
degree of intelligence. Looks are trifles compared with the other qualities which man may possess.

13. YOUNG MAN, If you desire to win the love and admiration of young ladies, first, be intelligent;
read books and papers; remember what you read, so you can talk about it. Second, be generous
and do not show a stingy and penurious disposition when in the company of ladies. Third, be
sensible, original, and have opinions of your own and do not agree with everything that someone
else says, or agree with everything that a lady may say. Ladies naturally admire genteel and
intelligent discussions and conversations when there is someone to talk with who has an opinion
of his own. Woman despises a man who has no opinion of his own; she hates a trifling disposition
and admires leadership, original ideas, and looks up to man as a leader. Women despise all
men whom they can manage, overrule, cow-down and subdue.

14. BE SELF-SUPPORTING.--The young man who gives evidence of thrift is always in demand. Be
enthusiastic and drive with success all that you undertake. A young man, sober, honest and
industrious, holding a responsible position or having a business of his own, is a prize that
some bright and beautiful young lady would like to draw. Woman admires a certainty.

15. UNIFORMED MEN.--It is a well known fact that women love uniformed men. The soldier figures
as a hero in about every tale of fiction and it is said by good authority that a man in uniform
has three more chances to marry than the man without uniform. The correct reason is, the soldier's
profession is bravery, and he is dressed and trained for that purpose, and it is that which
makes him admired by ladies rather than the uniform which he wears. His profession is also
that of a protector.

       *       *       *       *       *

WHAT MEN LOVE IN WOMEN.

1. FEMALE BEAUTY.--Men love beautiful women, for woman's beauty is the highest type of all
beauty. A handsome woman needs no diamonds, no silks or satins; her brilliant face outshines
diamonds and her form is beautiful in calico.

2. FALSE BEAUTIFIERS.--Man's love of female beauty surpasses all other love, and whatever artificial
means are used to beautify, to a certain extent are falsehoods which lead to distrust or dislike.
Artificial beauty is always an imitation, and never can come into competition with the genuine.
No art can successfully imitate nature.

3. TRUE KIND OF BEAUTY.--Facial beauty is only skin deep. A beautiful form, a graceful figure,
graceful movements and a kind heart are the strongest charms in the perfection of female beauty.
A brilliant face always outshines what may be called a pretty face, for intelligence is that
queenly grace which crowns woman's influence over men. Good looks and good and pure conduct
awaken a man's love for women. A girl must therefore be charming as well as beautiful, for
a charming girl will never become a charmless wife.

4. A GOOD FEMALE BODY.--No weakly, poor-bodied woman can draw a man's love like a strong, well
developed body. A round, plump figure with an overflow of animal life is the woman most commonly
sought, for nature in man craves for the strong qualities in women, as the health and life
of offspring depend upon the physical qualities of wife and mother. A good body and vigorous
health, therefore, become indispensable to female beauty.

5. BROAD HIPS.--A woman with a large pelvis gives her a superior and significant appearance,
while a narrow pelvis always indicate weak sexuality. The other portions of the body however
must be in harmony with the size and breadth of the hips.

6. FULL BUSTS.--In the female beauty of physical development there is nothing that can equal
full breasts. It is an indication of good health and good maternal qualities. As a face looks
bad without a nose, so the female breast, when narrow and flat, produces a bad effect. The
female breasts are the means on which a new-born child depends for its life and growth, hence
it is an essential human instinct for men to admire those physical proportions in women which
indicate perfect motherhood. Cotton and all other false forms simply show the value of natural
ones. All false forms are easily detected, because large natural ones will generally quiver
and move at every step, while the artificial ones will manifest no expression of life. As woman
looks so much better with artificial paddings and puffings than she does without, therefore
modern society should waive all objections to their use. A full breast has been man's admiration
through all climes and ages, and whether this breast-loving instinct is right or wrong, sensible
or sensual, it is a fact well known to all, that it is a great disappointment to a husband
and father to see his child brought up on a bottle. Men love full breasts, because it promotes
maternity. If, however, the breasts are abnormally large, it indicates maternal deficiency
the same as any disproportion or extreme.

7. SMALL FEET.--Small feet and small ankles are very attractive, because they are in harmony
with a perfect female form, and men admire perfection. Small feet and ankles indicate modesty
and reserve, while large feet and ankles indicate coarseness, physical power, authority, predominance.
Feet and ankles however must be in harmony with the body, as small feet and small ankles on
a large woman would be out of proportion and consequently not beautiful.

8. BEAUTIFUL ARMS.--As the arm is always in proportion with the other portions of the body,
consequently a well-shaped arm, small hands and small wrists, with full muscular development,
is a charm and beauty not inferior to the face itself, and those who have well-shaped arms
may be proud of them, because they generally keep company with a fine bust and a fine figure.

9. INTELLIGENCE.--A mother must naturally possess intelligence, in order to rear her children
intelligently, consequently it is natural for man to chiefly admire mental qualities in women,
for utility and practicability depend upon intelligence. Therefore a man generally loves those
charms in women which prepare her for the duties of companionship. If a woman desires to be
loved, she must cultivate her intellectual gifts, be interesting and entertaining in society,
and practical and helpful in the home, for these are some of the qualifications which make
up the highest type of beauty.

10. PIETY AND RELIGION IN WOMEN.--Men who love home and the companionship of their wives, love
truth, honor and honesty. It is this higher moral development that naturally leads them to
admire women of moral and religious natures. It is therefore not strange that immoral men love
moral and church-loving wives. Man naturally admires the qualities which tend to the correct
government of the home. Men want good and pure children, and it is natural to select women
who insure domestic contentment and happiness. A bad man, of course, does not deserve a good
wife, yet he will do his utmost to get one.

11. FALSE APPEARANCE.--Men love reserved, coy and discreet women much more than blunt, shrewd
and boisterous. Falsehood, false hair, false curls, false forms, false bosoms, false colors,
false cheeks, and all that is false, men naturally dislike, for in themselves they are a poor
foundation on which to form family ties, consequently duplicity and hypocrisy in women is very
much disliked by men, but a frank, honest, conscientious soul is always lovable and lovely
and will not become an old maid, except as a matter of choice and not of necessity.

       *       *       *       *       *

HISTORY OF MARRIAGE.

1. "It is not good for man to be alone," was the Divine judgment, and so God created for him
an helpmate; therefore sex is as Divine as the soul.

2. POLYGAMY.--Polygamy has existed in all ages. It is and always has been the result of moral
degradation and wantonness.

3. If God had intended man to be a polygamist he would have created for him two or more wives;
but he only created one wife for the first man. He also directed Noah to take into the ark
two of each sort--a male and female--another evidence that God believed in pairs only.

4.

5. EGYPTIAN HISTORY.--Egyptian history, in the first ostensible form we have, shows that concubinage
and polygamy were in common practice.

6. SOLOMON.--It is not strange that Solomon, with his thousand wives, exclaimed: "All is vanity
and vexation of spirit." Polygamy is not the natural state of man.

7. CONCUBINAGE AND POLYGAMY continued till the fifth century, when the degraded condition of
woman became to some extent matters of some concern and recognition. Before this woman was
regarded simply as an instrument of procreation, or a mistress of the household, to gratify
the passions of man.

8.

9. MOHAMMEDANISM.--Of the 150,000,000 Mohammedans all are polygamists. Their religion appeals
to the luxury of animal propensities, and the voluptuous character of the Orientals has penetrated
western Europe and Africa.

10. MORMONISM.--The Mormon Church, founded by Joseph Smith, practiced polygamy until the beginning
of 1893, when the church formally declared and resigned polygamy as a part or present doctrine
of their religious institution. Yet all Mormons are polygamists at heart. It is a part of their
religion; national law alone restrains them.

11. FREE LOVERS.--There is located at Lenox, Madison County, New York, an organization popularly
known as Free Lovers. The members advocate a system of complex marriage, a sort of promiscuity,
with a freedom of love for any and all. In their system, love is made synonymous with sexuality,
and there is no doubt, but what woman is only a plaything to gratify animal caprice.

12. MONOGAMY (SINGLE WIFE), is a law of nature evident from the fact that it fulfills the three
essential conditions of man, viz.: the development of the individual, the welfare of society
and reproduction. In no nation with a system of polygamy do we find a code of political and
moral rights, and the condition of woman is that of a slave. In polygamous countries nothing
is added to the education and civilization. The natural tendency is sensualism, and sensualism
tends to mental starvation.

18. CHRISTIAN CIVILIZATION has lifted woman from slavery to liberty. Wherever Christian civilization
prevails there are legal marriages, pure homes and education. May God bless the purity of the
home. The priest or clergyman has pronounced as one those hearts that before beat in unison
with each other. The assembled guests congratulate the happy pair. The fair bride has left
her dear mother bedewed with tears and sobbing just as if her heart would break, and as if
the happy bridegroom was leading her away captive against her will. They enter the carriage.
It drives off on the wedding tour, and his arms encircles the yielding waist of her now all
his own, while her head reclines on the breast of the man of her choice. If she be young and
has married an old man, she will be sad. If she has married for a home, or position, or wealth,
a pang will shoot across her fair bosom. If she has married without due consideration or on
too light an acquaintance, it will be her sorrow before long. But, if loving and beloved, she
has united her destiny with a worthy man, she will rejoice, and on her journey feel a glow
of satisfaction and delight unfelt before and which will be often renewed, and daily prove
as the living waters from some perennial spring.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ADVANTAGES OF WEDLOCK. Marriage is the natural state of man and woman. Matrimony greatly
contributes to the wealth and health of man.

2. Circumstances may compel a man not to select a companion until late in life. Many may have
parents or relatives, dependent brothers and sisters to care for, yet family ties are cultivated;
notwithstanding the home is without a wife.

3. In Christian countries the laws of marriage have greatly added to the health of man. Marriage
in barbarous countries, where little or no marriage ceremonies are required, benefits man but
little. There can be no true domestic blessedness without loyalty and love for the select and
married companion. All the licentiousness and lust of a libertine, whether civilized or uncivilized,
bring him only unrest and premature decay.

4. A man, however, may be married and not mated, and consequently reap trouble and unhappiness.
A young couple should first carefully learn each other by making the courtship a matter of
business, and sufficiently long that the disposition and temper of each may be thoroughly exposed
and understood.

5. First see that there is love; secondly, that there is adaptation; thirdly, see that there
are no physical defects, and if these conditions are properly considered, cupid will go with you.

6. The happiest place on all earth is home.

7.

8.

9. TOO EARLY MARRIAGES.--Too early marriage is always bad for the female. If a young girl marries,
her system is weakened and a full development of her body is prevented, and the dangers of
confinement are considerably increased.

10. Boys who marry young derive but little enjoyment from the connubial state. They are liable
to excesses and thereby lose much of the vitality and power of strength and physical endurance.

11. LONG LIFE.--Statistics show that married men live longer than bachelors. Child-bearing
for women is conducive to longevity.

12. COMPLEXION.--Marriage purifies the complexion, removes blotches from the skin, invigorates
the body, fills up the tones of the voice, gives elasticity and firmness to the step, and brings
health and contentment to old age.

13. TEMPTATIONS REMOVED.--Marriage sanctifies a home, while adultery and libertinism produce
unrest, distrust and misery. It must be remembered that a married man can practice the most
absolute continence and enjoy a far better state of health than the licentious man. The comforts
of companionship develop purity and give rest to the soul.

14. TOTAL ABSTENTION.--It is no doubt difficult for some men to fully abstain from sexual intercourse
and be entirely chaste in mind. The great majority of men experience frequent strong sexual
desire. Abstention is very apt to produce in their minds voluptuous images and untamable desires
which require an iron will to banish or control. The hermit in his seclusion, or the monk in
his retreat, are often flushed with these passions and trials. It is, however, natural; for
remove these passions and man would be no longer a man. It is evident that the natural state
of man is that of marriage; and he who avoids that state is not in harmony with the laws of
his being.

15. PROSTITUTION.--Men who inherit strong passions easily argue themselves into the belief
either to practice masturbation or visit places of prostitution, on the ground that their health
demands it. Though medical investigation has proven it repeatedly to be false, yet many believe
it. The consummation of marriage involves the mightiest issues of life and is the most holy
and sacred right recognized by man, and it is the Balm of Gilead for many ills. Masturbation
or prostitution soon blight the brightest prospects a young man may have. Manhood is morality
and purity of purpose, not sensuality.

       *       *       *       *       *

DISADVANTAGES OF CELIBACY.

1. To live the life of a bachelor has many advantages and many disadvantages. The man who commits
neither fornication, adultery nor secret vice, and is pure in mind, surely has all the moral
virtues that make a good man and a good citizen, whether married or unmarried.

2. If a good pure-minded man does not marry, he will suffer no serious loss of vital power;
there will be no tendency to spermatorrhoea or congestion, nor will he be afflicted with any
one of those ills which certain vicious writers and quacks would lead many people to believe.
Celibacy is perfectly consistent with mental vigor and physical strength. Regularity in the
habits of life will always have its good effects on the human body.

3. The average life of a married man is much longer than that of a bachelor. There is quite
an alarming odds in the United States in favor of a man with a family. It is claimed that the
married man lives on an average from five to twenty years longer than a bachelor. The married
man lives a more regular life. He has his meals more regularly and is better nursed in sickness,
and in every way a happier and more contented man. The happiness of wife and children will
always add comfort and length of days to the man who is happily married.

4. It is a fact well answered by statistics that there is more crime committed, more vices
practiced, and more immorality among single men than among married men. Let the young man be
pure in heart like Bunyan's Pilgrim, and he can pass the deadly dens, the roaring lions, and
overcome the ravenous fires of passion, unscathed. The vices of single men support the most
flagrant of evils of modern society, hence let every young man beware and keep his body clean
and pure. His future happiness largely depends upon his chastity while a single man.

       *       *       *       *       *

OLD MAIDS.

1. MODERN ORIGIN.--The prejudice which certainly still exists in the average mind against unmarried
women must be of comparatively modern origin. From the earliest ages to ancient Greece, and
Rome particularly, the highest honors were paid them. They were the ministers of the old religions,
and regarded with superstitious awe.

2. MATRIMONY.--Since the reformation, especially during the last century, and in our own land,
matrimony has been so much esteemed, notably by women, that it has come to be regarded as in
some sort discreditable for them to remain single. Old maids are mentioned on every hand with
mingled pity and disdain, arising no doubt from the belief, conscious or unconscious, that
they would not be what they are if they could help it. Few persons have a good word for them
as a class. We are constantly hearing of lovely maidens, charming wives, buxom widows, but
almost never of attractive old maids.

3. DISCARDING PREJUDICE.--The real old maid is like any other woman. She has faults necessarily,
though not those commonly conceived of. She is often plump, pretty, amiable, interesting, intellectual,
cultured, warm-hearted, benevolent, and has ardent friends of both sexes. These constantly
wonder why she has not married, for they feel that she must have had many opportunities. Some
of them may know why; she may have made them her confidantes. She usually has a sentimental,
romantic, frequently a sad and pathetic past, of which she does not speak unless in the sacredness
of intimacy.

4. NOT QUARRELSOME.--She is not dissatisfied, querulous nor envious. On the contrary, she is,
for the most part, singularly content, patient and serene,--more so than many wives who have
household duties and domestic cares to tire and trouble them.

5. REMAIN SINGLE FROM NECESSITY.--It is a stupid, as well as a heinous mistake, that women
who remain single do so from necessity. Almost any woman can get a husband if she is so minded,
as daily observation attests. When we see the multitudes of wives who have no visible signs
of matrimonial recommendation, why should we think that old maids have been totally neglected?
We may meet those who do not look inviting. But we meet any number of wives who are even less
inviting.

6. FIRST OFFER.--The appearance and outgiving of many wives denote that they have accepted
the first offer; the appearance and outgiving of many old maids that they have declined repeated
offers. It is undeniable, that wives, in the mass, have no more charm than old maids have,
in the mass. But, as the majority of women are married, they are no more criticised nor commented
on, in the bulk, than the whole sex are. They are spoken of individually as pretty or plain,
bright or dull, pleasant or unpleasant; while old maids are judged as a species, and almost
always unfavorable.

7. BECOMES A WIFE.--Many an old maid, so-called, unexpectedly to her associates becomes a wife,
some man of taste, discernment and sympathy having induced her to change her state. Probably
no other man of his kind has proposed before, which accounts for her singleness. After her
marriage hundreds of persons who had sneered at her condition find her charming, thus showing
the extent of their prejudice against feminine celibacy. Old maids in general, it is fair to
presume, do not wait for opportunities, but for proposers of an acceptable sort. They may have,
indeed they are likely to have, those, but not to meet these.

8. NO LONGER MARRY FOR SUPPORT.--The time has changed and women have changed with it. They
have grown more sensible, more independent in disposition as well as circumstances. They no
longer marry for support; they have proved their capacity to support themselves, and self-support
has developed them in every way. Assured that they can get on comfortably and contentedly alone
they are better adapted by the assurance for consortship. They have rapidly increased from
this and cognate causes, and have so improved in person, mind and character that an old maid
of to-day is wholly different from an old maid of forty years ago.

       *       *       *       *       *

WHEN AND WHOM TO MARRY.

1. EARLY MARRIAGES.--Women too early married always remain small in stature, weak, pale, emaciated,
and more or less miserable. We have no natural nor moral right to perpetuate unhealthy constitutions,
therefore women should not marry too young and take upon themselves the responsibility, by
producing a weak and feeble generation of children. It is better not to consummate a marriage
until a full development of body and mind has taken place. A young woman of twenty-one to twenty-five,
and a young man of twenty-three to twenty-eight, are considered the right age in order to produce
an intelligent and healthy offspring. "First make the tree good, then shall the fruit be good
also."

2. If marriage is delayed too long in either sex, say from thirty to forty-five, the offspring
will often be puny and more liable to insanity, idiocy, and other maladies.

3. PUBERTY.--This is the period when childhood passes from immaturity of the sexual functions
to maturity. Woman attains this state a year or two sooner than man. In the hotter climates
the period of puberty is from twelve to fifteen years of age, while in cold climates, such
as Russia, the United States, and Canada, puberty is frequently delayed until the seventeenth year.

4. DISEASED PARENTS.--We do the race a serious wrong in multiplying the number of hereditary
invalids. Whole families of children have fallen heir to lives of misery and suffering by the
indiscretion and poor judgment of parents. No young man in the vigor of health should think
for a moment of marrying a girl who has the impress of consumption or other disease already
stamped upon her feeble constitution. It only multiplies his own suffering, and brings no material
happiness to his invalid wife. On the other hand, no healthy, vigorous young woman ought to
unite her destiny with a man, no matter how much she adored him, who is not healthy and able
to brave the hardships of life. If a young man or young woman with feeble body cannot find
permanent relief either by medicine or change of climate, no thoughts of marriage should be
entertained. Courting a patient may be pleasant, but a hard thing in married life to enjoy.
The young lady who supposes that any young man wishes to marry her for the sake of nursing
her through life makes a very grave mistake.

5. WHOM TO CHOOSE FOR A HUSBAND.--The choice of a husband requires the coolest judgment and
the most vigilant sagacity. A true union based on organic law is happiness, but let all remember
that oil and water will not mix: the lion will not lie down with the lamb, nor can ill-assorted
marriages be productive of aught but discord.

  "Let the woman take
  An elder than herself, so wears she to him--
  So sways she, rules in her husband's heart."

Look carefully at the disposition.--See that your intended Spouse is kind-hearted, generous,
and willing to respect the opinions of others, though not in sympathy with them. Don't marry
a selfish tyrant who thinks only of himself.

6. BE CAREFUL.--Don't marry an intemperate man with a view of reforming him. Thousands have
tried it and failed. Misery, sorrow and a very hell on earth have been the consequences of
too many such generous undertakings.

7. THE TRUE AND ONLY TEST which any man should look for in woman is modesty in demeanor before
marriage, absence both of assumed ignorance and disagreeable familiarity, and a pure and religious
frame of mind. Where these are present, he need not doubt that he has a faithful and a chaste wife.

8. MARRYING FIRST COUSINS is dangerous to offspring. The observation is universal, the children
of married first cousins are too often idiots, insane, clump-footed, crippled, blind, or variously
diseased. First cousins are always sure to impart all the hereditary disease in both families
to their children. If both are healthy there is less danger.

9. DO NOT CHOOSE ONE TOO GOOD, or too far above you, lest the inferior dissatisfying the superior,
breed those discords which are worse than the trials of a single life. Don't be too particular;
for you might go farther and fare worse. As far as you yourself are faulty, you should put
up with faults. Don't cheat a consort by getting one much better than you can give. We are
not in heaven yet, and must put up with their imperfections, and instead of grumbling at them,
be glad they are no worse; remembering that a faulty one is a great deal better than none,
if he loves you.

10. MARRYING FOR MONEY.--Those who seek only the society of those who can boast of wealth will
nine times out of ten suffer disappointment. Wealth cannot manufacture true love nor money
buy domestic happiness. Marry because you love each other, and God will bless your home. A
cottage with a loving wife is worth more than a royal palace with a discontented and unloving
queen.

11. DIFFERENCE IN AGE.--It is generally admitted that the husband should be a few years older
than the wife. The question seems to be how much difference. Up to twenty-two those who propose
marriage should be about the same age; however, other things being equal, a difference of fifteen
years after the younger is twenty-five, need not prevent a marriage. A man of forty-five may
marry a woman of twenty-five much more safely than one of thirty a girl below nineteen, because
her mental sexuality is not as mature as his, and again her natural coyness requires more delicate
and affectionate treatment than he is likely to bestow. A girl of twenty or under should seldom
if ever marry a man of thirty or over, because the love of an elderly man for a girl is more
parental than conjugal; while hers for him is like that of a daughter to a father. He may pet,
flatter and indulge her as he would a grown-up daughter, yet all this is not genuine masculine
and feminine love, nor can she exert over him the influence every man requires from his wife.

12. THE BEST TIME.--All things considered, we advise the male reader to keep his desires in
check till he is at least twenty-five, and the female not to enter the pale of wedlock until
she has attained the age of twenty. After those periods, marriage is the proper sphere of action,
and one in which nearly every individual is called by nature to play his proper part.

13. SELECT CAREFULLY.--While character, health, accomplishments and social position should
be considered, yet one must not overlook mental construction and physical conformation. The
rule always to be followed in choosing a life partner is identity of taste and diversity of
temperament. Another essential is that they be physically adapted to each other. For example:
The pelvis--that part of the anatomy containing all the internal organs of gestation--is not
only essential to beauty and symmetry, but is a matter of vital importance to her who contemplates
matrimony, and its usual consequences. Therefore, the woman with a very narrow and contracted
pelvis should never choose a man of giant physical development lest they cannot duly realize
the most important of the enjoyments of the marriage state, while the birth of large infants
will impose upon her intense labor pains, or even cost her her life.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHOOSE INTELLECTUALLY--LOVE AFTERWARD.

1. LOVE.--Let it ever be remembered that love is one of the most sacred elements of our nature,
and the most dangerous with which to tamper. It is a very beautiful and delicately contrived
faculty, producing the most delightful results, but easily thrown out of repair--like a tender
plant, the delicate fibers of which incline gradually to entwine themselves around its beloved
one, uniting two willing hearts by a thousand endearing ties, and making of "twain one flesh":
but they are easily torn asunder, and then adieu to the joys of connubial bliss!

2. COURTING BY THE QUARTER.--This courting by the quarter, "here a little and there a little,"
is one of the greatest evils of the day. This getting a little in love with Julia, and then
a little with Eliza, and a little more with Mary,--this fashionable flirtation and coquetry
of both sexes--is ruinous to the domestic affections; besides, effectually preventing the formation
of true connubial love. I consider this dissipation of the affections one of the greatest sins
against Heaven, ourselves, and the one trifled with, that can be committed.

3. FRITTERING AWAY AFFECTIONS.--Young men commence courting long before they think of marrying,
and where they entertain no thoughts of marriage. They fritter away their own affections, and
pride themselves on their conquests over the female heart; triumphing in having so nicely fooled
them. They pursue this sinful course so far as to drive their pitiable victims, one after another,
from respectable society, who, becoming disgraced, retaliate by heaping upon them all the indignities
and impositions which the fertile imagination of woman can invent or execute.

4. COURTING WITHOUT INTENDING TO MARRY.--Nearly all this wide-spread crime and suffering connected
with public and private licentiousness and prostitution, has its origin in these unmeaning
courtships--this premature love--this blighting of the affections, and every young man who
courts without intending to marry, is throwing himself or his sweet-heart into this hell upon
earth. And most of the blame rests on young men, because they take the liberty of paying their
addresses to the ladies and discontinuing them, at pleasure, and thereby mainly cause this vice.

5. SETTING THEIR CAPS.--True, young ladies sometimes "set their caps," sometimes court very
hard by their bewitching smiles and affectionate manners; by the natural language of love,
or that backward reclining and affectionate roll of the head which expresses it; by their soft
and persuasive accents; by their low dresses, artificial forms, and many other unnatural and
affected ways and means of attracting attention and exciting love; but women never court till
they have been in love and experienced its interruption, till their first and most tender fibres
of love have been frost-bitten by disappointment. It is surely a sad condition of society.

6. TRAMPLING THE AFFECTIONS OF WOMEN.--But man is a self-privileged character. He may not only
violate the laws of his own social nature with impunity, but he may even trample upon the affections
of woman. He may even carry this sinful indulgence to almost any length, and yet be caressed
and smiled tenderly upon by woman; aye, even by virtuous woman. He may call out, only to blast
the glowing affections of one young lady after another, and yet his addresses be cordially
welcomed by others. Surely a gentleman is at perfect liberty to pay his addresses, not only
to a lady, but even to the ladies, although he does not once entertain the thought of marrying
his sweet-heart, or, rather his victim. O, man, how depraved! O, woman, how strangely blind
to your own rights and interests!

7. AN INFALLIBLE SIGN.--An infallible sign that a young man's intentions are improper, is his
trying to excite your passions. If he loves you, he will never appeal to that feeling, because
he respects you too much for that. And the woman who allows a man to take advantage of her
just to compel him to marry her, is lost and heartless in the last degree, and utterly destitute
of moral principle as well as virtue. A woman's riches is her virtue, that gone she has lost all.

8. THE BEGINNING OF LICENTIOUSNESS.--Man it seldom drives from society. Do what he may, woman,
aye, virtuous and even pious woman rarely excludes him from her list of visitors. But where
is the point of propriety?--immoral transgression should exclude either sex from respectable
society. Is it that one false step which now constitutes the boundary between virtue and vice?
Or rather, the discovery of that false step? Certainly not! but it is all that leads to, and
precedes and induces it. It is this courting without marrying. This is the beginning of licentiousness,
as well as its main, procuring cause, and therefore infinitely worse than its consummation merely.

9. SEARING THE SOCIAL AFFECTIONS.--He has seared his social affections so deeply, so thoroughly,
so effectually, that when, at last, he wishes to marry, he is incapable of loving. He marries,
but is necessarily cold-hearted towards his wife, which of course renders her wretched, if
not jealous, and reverses the faculties of both towards each other; making both most miserable
for life. This induces contention and mutual recrimination, if not unfaithfulness, and imbitters
the marriage relations through life; and well it may.

10. UNHAPPY MARRIAGES.--This very cause, besides inducing most of that unblushing public and
private prostitution already alluded to, renders a large proportion of the marriages of the
present day unhappy. Good people mourn over the result, but do not once dream of its cause.
They even pray for moral reform, yet do the very things that increase the evil.

11. WEEPING OVER HER FALLEN SON.--Do you see yonder godly mother, weeping over her fallen son,
and remonstrating with him in tones of a mother's tenderness and importunity? That very mother
prevented that very son marrying the girl he dearly loved, because she was poor, and this interruption
of his love was the direct and procuring cause of his ruin; for, if she had allowed him to
marry this beloved one, he never would have thought of giving his "strength unto strange women."
True, the mother ruined her son ignorantly, but none the less effectually.

12. SEDUCTION AND RUIN.--That son next courts another virtuous fair one, engages her affections,
and ruins her, or else leaves her broken-hearted, so that she is the more easily ruined by
others, and thus prepares the way for her becoming an inmate of a house "whose steps take hold
on hell." His heart is now indifferent, he is ready for anything.

13. THE RIGHT PRINCIPLE.--I say then, with emphasis, that no man should ever pay his addresses
to any woman, until he has made his selection, not even to aid him in making that choice. He
should first make his selection intellectually, and love afterward. He should go about the
matter coolly and with judgment, just as he would undertake any other important matter. No
man or woman, when blinded by love, is in a fit state to judge advantageously as to what he
or she requires, or who is adapted to his or her wants.

14. CHOOSING FIRST AND LOVING AFTERWARDS.--I know, indeed, that this doctrine of choosing first
and loving afterward, of excluding love from the councils, and of choosing by and with the
consent of the intellect and moral sentiments, is entirely at variance with the feelings of
the young and the customs of society; but, for its correctness, I appeal to the common-sense--not
to the experience, for so few try this plan. Is not this the only proper method, and the one
most likely to result happily? Try it.

15. THE YOUNG WOMAN'S CAUTION.--And, especially, let no young lady ever once think of bestowing
her affections till she is certain they will not be broken off--that is, until the match is
fully agreed upon, but rather let her keep her heart whole till she bestows it for life. This
requisition is as much more important, and its violation as much more disastrous to woman than
to man, as her social faculties are stronger than his.

16. A BURNT CHILD DREADS THE FIRE.--As a "burnt child dreads the fire," and the more it is
burnt, the greater the dread: so your affections, once interrupted, will recoil from a second
love, and distrust all mankind. No! you cannot be too choice of your love--that pivot on which
turn your destinies for life and future happiness.

       *       *       *       *       *

LOVE-SPATS.

  Could ever hear by tale or history,
  The course of true love never did run smooth.
  --SHAKESPEARE.

"Thunderstorms clear the atmosphere and promote vegetation; then why not Love-spats promote
love, as they certainly often do?"

"They are almost universal, and in the nature of our differences cannot be helped. The more
two love, the more they are aggrieved by each other's faults; of which these spats are but
the correction."

"Love-spats instead of being universal, they are consequent on imperfect love, and only aggravate,
never correct errors. Sexual storms never improve, whereas love obviates faults by praising
the opposite virtues. Every view of them, practical and philosophical, condemns them as being
to love what poison is to health, both before and after marriage. They are nothing but married
discords. Every law of mind and love condemns them. Shun them as you would deadly vipers, and
prevent them by forestallment."--O.S. Fowler.

1. THE TRUE FACTS.--Notwithstanding some of the above quotations, to the contrary, trouble
and disagreement between lovers embitters both love and life. Contention is always dangerous,
and will beget alienation if not final separation.

2. CONFIRMED AFFECTIONS.--Where affections are once thoroughly confirmed, each one should be
very careful in taking offense, and avoid all disagreements as far as possible, but if disagreements
continually develop with more or less friction and irritation, it is better for the crisis
to come and a final separation take place. For peace is better than disunited love.

3. HATE-SPATS.--Hate-spats, though experienced by most lovers, yet, few realize how fatal they
are to subsequent affections. Love-spats develop into hate-spats, and their effects upon the
affections are blighting and should not under any circumstances be tolerated. Either agree,
or agree to disagree. If there cannot be harmony before the ties of marriage are assumed, then
there cannot be harmony after. Married life will be continually marred by a series of "hate-spats"
that sooner or later will destroy all happiness, unless the couple are reasonably well mated.

4. MORE FATAL THE OFTENER THEY OCCUR.--As O.S. Fowler says: "'The poison of asps is under their
lips.' The first spat is like a deep gash cut into a beautiful face, rendering it ghastly,
and leaving a fearful scar, which neither time nor cosmetics can ever efface; including that
pain so fatal to love, and blotting that sacred love-page with memory's most hideous and imperishable
visages. Cannot many now unhappy remember them as the beginning of that alienation which embittered
your subsequent affectional cup, spoiled your lives? With what inherent repulsion do you look
back upon them? Their memory is horrid, and effect on love most destructive."

5. FATAL CONDITIONS.--What are all lovers' "spats" but disappointment in its very worst form?
They necessarily and always produce all its terrible consequences. The finer feelings and sensibilities
will soon become destroyed and nothing but hatred will remain.

6. EXTREME SORROW.--After a serious "spat" there generally follows a period of tender sorrow,
and a feeling of humiliation and submission. Mutual promises are consequently made that such
a condition of things shall never happen again, etc. But be sure and remember, that every subsequent
difficulty will require stronger efforts to repair the breach. Let it be understood that these
compromises are dangerous, and every new difficulty increases their fatality. Even the strongest
will endure but few, nor survive many.

7. DISTRUST AND WANT OF CONFIDENCE.--Most difficulties arise from distrust or lack of confidence
or common-sense. When two lovers eye each other like two curs, each watching, lest the other
should gain some new advantage, then this shows a lack of common-sense, and the young couple
should get sensible or separate.

8. JEALOUSY.--When one of the lovers, once so tender, now all at once so cold and hardened;
once so coy and familiar now suddenly so reserved, distant, hard and austere, is always a sure
case of jealousy. A jealous person is first talkative, very affectionate, and then all at once
changes and becomes cold, reserved and repulsive, apparently without cause. If a person is
jealous before marriage, this characteristic will be increased rather than diminished by marriage.

9. CONFESSION.--If you make up by confession, the confessor feels mean and disgraced; or if
both confess and forgive, both feel humbled; since forgiveness implies inferiority and pity;
from which whatever is manly and womanly shrinks. Still even this is better than continued "spats."

10. PREVENTION.--If you can get along well in your courtship you will invariably make a happy
couple if you should unite your destinies in marriage. Learn not to give nor take offence.
You must remember that all humanity is imperfect at best. We all have our faults, and must
keep them in subordination. Those who truly love each other will have but few difficulties
in their courtship or in married life.

11. REMEDIES.--Establishing a perfect love in the beginning constitutes a preventive. Fear
that they are not truly loved usually paves the way for "spats." Let all who make any pretension
guard against all beginnings of this reversal, and strangle these "hate-spats" the moment they
arise. "Let not the sun go down upon thy wrath," not even an hour, but let the next sentence
after they begin quench them forever. And let those who cannot court without "spats," stop;
for those who spat before marriage must quarrel after.

       *       *       *       *       *

A BROKEN HEART.

1. WOUNDED LOVE.--'Tis true that love wields a magic, sovereign, absolute, and tyrannical power
over both the body and the mind when it is given control. It often, in case of dissapointment,
works havoc and deals death blows to its victims, and leaves many in that morbid mental condition
which no life-tonics simply can restore. Wounded love may be the result of hasty and indiscreet
conduct of young people; or the outgrowth of lust, or the result of domestic infidelity and
discord.

2. FATAL EFFECTS.--Our cemeteries receive within the cold shadows of the grave thousands and
thousands of victims that annually die from the results of "broken hearts." It is no doubt
a fact that love troubles cause more disorders of the heart than everything else combined.

3. DISRUPTED LOVE.--It has long been known that dogs, birds, and even horses, when separated
from their companions or friends, have pined away and died; so it is not strange that man with
his higher intuitive ideas of affection should suffer from love when suddenly disrupted.

4. CRUCIFYING LOVE.--Painful love feelings strike right to the heart, and the breaking up of
love that cannot be consummated in marriage is sometimes allowed to crucify the affections.
There is no doubt that the suffering from disappointed love is often deeper and more intense
than meeting death itself.

5. HEALING.--The paralyzing and agonizing consequences of ruptured love can only be remedied
by diversion and society. Bring the mind into a state of patriotic independence with a full
determination to blot out the past. Those who cannot bring into subordination the pangs of
disappointment in love are not strong characters, and invariably will suffer disappointments
in almost every department of life. Disappointment in love means rising above it, and conquering
it, or demoralization, mental, physical and sexual.

6. LOVE RUNS MAD.--Love comes unbidden. A blind ungovernable impulse seems to hold sway in
the passions of the affections. Love is blind and seems to completely subdue and conquer. It
often comes like a clap of thunder from a clear sky, and when it falls it falls flat, leaving
only the ruins of a tornado behind.

7. BAD, DISMAL, AND BLUE FEELINGS.--Despondency breathes disease, and those who yield to it
can neither work, eat nor sleep; they only suffer. The spell-bound, fascinated, magnetized
affections seem to deaden self-control and no doubt many suffering from love-sickness are totally
helpless; they are beside themselves, irritational and wild. Men and women of genius, influence
and education, all seem to suffer alike, but they do not yield alike to the subduing influence;
some pine away and die; others rise above it, and are the stronger and better for having been
afflicted.

8. RISE ABOVE IT.--Cheer up! If you cannot think pleasurably over your misfortune, forget it.
You must do this or perish. Your power and influence is too much to blight by foolish and melancholic
pining. Your own sense, your self-respect, your self-love, your love for others, command you
not to spoil yourself by crying over "spilt milk."

9. RETRIEVE YOUR PAST LOSS.--Do sun, moon, and stars indeed rise and set in your loved one?
Are there not "as good fish in the sea as ever were caught?" and can you not catch them? Are
there not other hearts on earth just as loving and lovely, and in every way as congenial; If
circumstances had first turned you upon another, you would have felt about that one as now
about this. Love depends far less on the party loved than on the loving one. Or is this the
way either to retrieve your past loss, or provide for the future? Is it not both unwise and
self-destructive; and in every way calculated to render your case, present and prospective,
still more hopeless?

10. FIND SOMETHING TO DO.--Idle hands are Satan's workshop. Employ your mind; find something
to do; something in which you can find self-improvement; something that will fit you better
to be admired by someone else, read, and improve your mind; get into society, throw your whole
soul into some new enterprise, and you will conquer with glory and come out of the fire purified
and made more worthy.

11. LOVE AGAIN.--As love was the cause of your suffering, so love again will restore you, and
you will love better and more consistently. Do not allow yourself to become soured and detest
and shun association. Rebuild your dilapidated sexuality by cultivating a general appreciation
of the excellence, especially of the mental and moral qualities of the opposite sex. Conquer
your prejudices, and vow not to allow anyone to annoy or disturb your calmness.

12. LOVE FOR THE DEAD.--A most affectionate woman, who continues to love her affianced though
long dead, instead of becoming soured or deadened, manifests all the richness and sweetness
of the fully-developed woman thoroughly in love, along with a softened, mellow, twilight sadness
which touches every heart, yet throws a peculiar lustre and beauty over her manners and entire
character. She must mourn, but not forever. It is not her duty to herself or to her Creator.

13. A SURE REMEDY.--Come in contact with the other sex. You are infused with your lover's magnetism,
which must remain till displaced by another's. Go to parties and picnics; be free, familiar,
offhand, even forward; try your knack at fascinating another, and yield to fascinations yourself.
But be honest, command respect, and make yourself attractive and worthy.

       *       *       *       *       *

FORMER CUSTOMS AND PECULIARITIES AMONG MEN.

1. POLYGAMY.--There is a wide difference as regards the relations of the sexes in different
parts of the world. In some parts polygamy has prevailed from time immemorial.

Most savage people are polygamists, and the Turks, though slowly departing from the practice,
still allow themselves a plurality of wives.

2. RULE REVERSED.--In Thibet the rule is reversed, and the females are provided with two or
more husbands. It is said that in many instances a whole family of brothers have but one wife.
The custom has at least one advantageous feature, viz.: the possibility of leaving an unprotected
widow and a number of fatherless children is entirely obviated.

3. THE MORGANATIC MARRIAGE is a modification of polygamy. It sometimes occurs among the royalty
of Europe, and is regarded as perfectly legitimate, but the morganatic wife is of lower rank
than her royal husband, and her children do not inherit his rank or fortune. The Queen only
is the consort of the sovereign, and entitled to share his rank.

4. DIFFERENT MANNERS OF OBTAINING WIVES.--Among the uncivilized almost any envied possession
is taken by brute force or superior strength. The same is true in obtaining a wife. The strong
take precedence of the weak. It is said that among the North American Indians it was the custom
for men to wrestle for the choice of women. A weak man could seldom retain a wife that a strong
man coveted.

The law of contest was not confined to individuals alone. Women were frequently the cause of
whole tribes arraying themselves against each other in battle. The effort to excel in physical
power was a great incentive to bodily development, and since the best of the men were preferred
by the most superior women, the custom was a good one in this, that the race was improved.

5. THE ABORIGINAL AUSTRALIAN employed low cunning and heartless cruelty in obtaining his wife.
Laying in ambush, with club in hand, he would watch for the coveted woman, and, unawares, spring
upon her. If simply disabled he carried her off as his possession, but if the blow had been
hard enough to kill, he abandoned her to watch for another victim. There is here no effort
to attract or please, no contest of strength; his courtship, if courtship it can be called,
would compare very unfavorably with any among the brute creation.

6. THE KALMUCK TARTAR races for his bride on horseback, she having a certain start previously
agreed upon. The nuptial knot consists in catching her, but we are told that the result of
the race all depends upon whether the girl wants to be caught or not.

7. HAWAIIAN ISLANDERS.--Marriage among the early natives of these islands was merely a matter
of mutual inclination. There was no ceremony at all, the men and women united and separated
as they felt disposed.

8. THE FEUDAL LORD, in various parts of Europe, when any of his dependents or followers married,
exercised the right of assuming the bridegroom's proper place in the marriage couch for the
first night. Seldom was there any escape from this abominable practice. Sometimes the husband,
if wealthy, succeeded in buying off the petty sovereign from exercising his privilege.

9. THE SPARTANS had the custom of encouraging intercourse between their best men and women
for the sake of a superior progeny, without any reference to a marriage ceremony. Records show
that the ancient Roman husband has been known to invite a friend, in whom he may have admired
some physical or mental trait, to share the favors of his wife; that the peculiar qualities
that he admired might be repeated in the offspring.

       *       *       *       *       *

SENSIBLE HINTS IN CHOOSING A PARTNER.

1. There are many fatal errors and many love-making failures in courtship. Natural laws govern
all nature and reduce all they govern to eternal right; therefore love naturally, not artificially.
Don't love a somebody or a nobody simply because they have money.

2. COURT SCIENTIFICALLY.--If you court at all, court scientifically. Bungle whatever else you
will, but do no bungle courtship. A failure in this may mean more than a loss of wealth or
public honors; it may mean ruin, or a life often worse than death. The world is full of wretched
and mismated people.

BEGIN RIGHT and all will be right; begin wrong and all will end wrong. When you court, make
a business of it and study your interest the same as you would study any other business proposition.

3. DIVORCES.--There is not a divorce on our court records that is not the result of some fundamental
error in courtship. The purity or the power of love may be corrupted the same as any other
faculty, and when a man makes up his mind to marry and shuts his eyes and grabs in the dark
for a companion, he dishonors the woman he captures and commits a crime against God and society.
In this enlightened age there should be comparatively few mistakes made in the selection of
a suitable partner. Sufficient time should be taken to study each other's character and disposition.
Association will soon reveal adaptability.

4. FALSE LOVE.--Many a poor, blind and infatuated novice thinks he is desperately in love,
when there is not the least genuine affection in his nature. It is all a momentary passion
a sort of puppy love; his vows and pledges are soon violated, and in wedlock he will become
indifferent and cold to his wife and children, and he will go through life without ambition,
encouragement or success. He will be a failure. True love speaks for itself, and the casual
observer can read its proclamations. True love does not speak in a whisper, it always makes
itself heard. The follies of flirting develops into many unhappy marriages, and blight many
a life. Man happily married has superior advantages both social and financially.

5. FLIRTING JUST FOR FUN.--Who is the flirt, what is his reputation, motive, or character?
Every young man and woman must have a reputation; if it is not good it is bad, there is no
middle ground. Young people who are running in the streets after dark, boisterous and noisy
in their conversation, gossiping and giggling, flirting with first one and then another, will
soon settle their matrimonial prospects among good society. Modesty is a priceless jewel. No
sensible young man with a future will marry a flirt.

6. THE ARCH-DECEIVER.--They who win the affection simply for their own amusement are committing
a great sin for which there is no adequate punishment. How can you shipwreck the innocent life
of that confiding maiden, how can you forget her happy looks as she drank in your expressions
of love, how can you forget her melting eyes and glowing cheeks, her tender tone reciprocating
your pretended love? Remember that God is infinitely just, and "the soul that sinneth shall
surely die." You may dash into business, seek pleasure in the club room, and visit gambling
hells, but "Thou art the man" will ever stare you in the face. Her pale, sad cheeks, her hollow
eyes will never cease to haunt you. Men should promote happiness, and not cause misery. Let
the savage Indians torture captives to death by the slow flaming fagot, but let civilized man
respect the tenderness and love of confiding women. Torturing the opposite sex is double-distilled
barbarity. Young men agonizing young ladies, is the cold-blooded cruelty of devils, not men.

7. THE RULE TO FOLLOW.--Do not continually pay your attentions to the same lady if you have
no desire to win her affections. Occasionally escorting her to church, concert, picnic, party,
etc., is perfectly proper; but to give her your special attention, and extend invitations to
her for all places of amusements where you care to attend, is an implied promise that you prefer
her company above all others, and she has a right to believe that your attentions are serious.

8. EVERY GIRL SHOULD SEAL HER HEART against all manifested affections, unless they are accompanied
by a proposal. Woman's love is her all, and her heart should be as flint until she finds one
who is worthy of her confidence. Young woman, never bestow your affections until by some word
or deed at least you are fully justified in recognizing sincerity and faith in him who is paying
you special attention. Better not be engaged until twenty-two. You are then more competent
to judge the honesty and falsity of man. Nature has thrown a wall of maidenly modesty around
you. Preserve that and not let your affections be trifled with while too young by any youthful
flirt who is in search of hearts to conquer.

9. FEMALE FLIRTATION.--The young man who loves a young woman has paid her the highest compliment
in the possession of man. Perpetrate almost any sin, inflict any other torture, but spare him
the agony of disappointment. It is a crime that can never be forgiven, and a debt that never
can be paid.

10. LOYALTY.--Young persons with serious intentions, or those who are engaged should be thoroughly
loyal to each other. If they seek freedom with others the flame of jealousy is likely to be
kindled and love is often turned to hatred, and the severest anger of the soul is aroused.
Loyalty, faithfulness, confidence, are the three jewels to be cherished in courtship. Don't
be a flirt.

11. KISSING, FONDLING, AND CARESSING BETWEEN LOVERS.--This should never be tolerated under
any circumstances, unless there is an engagement to justify it, and then only in a sensible
and limited way. The girl who allows a young man the privilege of kissing her or putting his
arms around her waist before engagement will at once fall in the estimation of the man she
has thus gratified and desired to please. Privileges always injure, but never benefit.

12. IMPROPER LIBERTIES DURING COURTSHIP KILL LOVE.--Any improper liberties which are permitted
by young ladies, whether engaged or not, will change love into sensuality, and her affections
will become obnoxious, if not repellent. Men by nature love virtue, and for a life companion
naturally shun an amorous woman. Young folks, as you love moral purity and virtue, never reciprocate
love until you have required the right of betrothal. Remember that those who are thoroughly
in love will respect the honor and virtue of each other. The purity of woman is doubly attractive,
and sensuality in her becomes doubly offensive and repellent. It is contrary to the laws of
nature for a man to love a harlot.

13. A SEDUCER.--The punishment of the seducer is best given by O.S. Fowler, in his "Creative
Science." The sin and punishment rest on all you who call out only to blight a trusting, innocent,
loving virgin's affections, and then discard her. You deserve to be horsewhipped by her father,
cowhided by her brothers, branded villain by her mother, cursed by herself, and sent to the
whipping-post and dungeon.

14. CAUTION.--A young lady should never encourage the attentions of a young man, who shows
no interest in his sisters. If a young man is indifferent to his sisters he will become indifferent
to his wife as soon as the honey moon is over. There are few if any exceptions to this rule.
The brother who will not be kind and loving in his mother's home will make a very poor husband.

15. THE OLD RULE: "Never marry a man that does not make his mother a Christmas present every
Christmas," is a good one. The young lady makes no mistake in uniting her destinies with the
man that loves his mother and respects his sisters and brothers.

       *       *       *       *       *

SAFE HINTS.

1. Marry in your own position in life. If there is any difference in social position, it is
better that the husband should be the superior. A woman does not like to look down upon her
husband, and to be obliged to do so is a poor guarantee for their happiness.

2. It is best to marry persons of your own faith and religious convictions, unless one is willing
to adopt those of the other. Difference of faith is apt to divide families, and to produce
great trouble in after life. A pious woman should beware of marrying an irreligious man.

3. Don't be afraid of marrying a poor man or woman. Good health, cheerful disposition, stout
hearts and industrious hands will bring happiness and comfort.

4. Bright red hair should marry jet black, and jet black auburn or bright red, etc. And the
more red-faced and bearded or impulsive a man, the more dark, calm, cool and quiet should his
wife be; and vice versa. The florid should not marry the florid, but those who are dark, in
proportion as they themselves are light.

5. Red-whiskered men should marry brunettes, but no blondes; the color of the whiskers being
more determinate of the temperament than that of the hair.

6. The color of the eyes is still more important. Gray eyes must marry some other color, almost
any other except gray; and so of blue, dark, hazel, etc.

7. Those very fleshy should not marry those equally so, but those too spare and slim; and this
is doubly true of females. A spare man is much better adapted to a fleshy woman than a round-favored
man. Two who are short, thick-set and stocky, should not unite in marriage, but should choose
those differently constituted; but on no account one of their own make. And, in general, those
predisposed to corpulence are therefore less inclined to marriage.

8. Those with little hair or beard should marry those whose hair is naturally abundant; still
those who once had plenty, but who have lost it, may marry those who are either bald or have
but little; for in this, as in all other cases, all depends on what one is by nature, little
on present states.

9. Those whose motive-temperament decidedly predominates, who are bony, only moderately fleshy,
quite prominent-featured, Roman-nosed and muscular, should not marry those similarly formed.

10. Small, nervous men must not marry little, nervous or sanguine women, lest both they and
their children have quite too much of the hot-headed and impulsive, and die suddenly.

11. Two very beautiful persons rarely do or should marry; nor two extra homely. The fact is
a little singular that very handsome women, who of course can have their pick, rarely marry
good-looking men, but generally give preference to those who are homely; because that exquisiteness
in which beauty originates naturally blends with that power which accompanies huge noses and
disproportionate features.

12. Rapid movers, speakers, laughers, etc., should marry those who are calm and deliberate,
and impulsives those who are stoical; while those who are medium may marry those who are either
or neither, as they prefer.

13. Noses indicate characters by indicating the organisms and temperaments. Accordingly, those
noses especially marked either way should marry those having opposite nasal characteristics.
Roman noses are adapted to those which turn up, and pug noses to those turning down; while
straight noses may marry either.

14. Men who love to command must be especially careful not to marry imperious, women's-rights
woman; while those who willingly "obey orders" need just such. Some men require a wife who
shall take their part; yet all who do not need strong-willed women, should be careful how they
marry them.

15. A sensible woman should not marry an obstinate but injudicious, unintelligent man; because
she cannot long endure to see and help him blindly follow his poor, but spurn her good, plans.

16. The reserved or secretive should marry the frank. A cunning man cannot endure the least
artifice in a wife. Those who are non-committal must marry those who are demonstrative; else,
however much they may love, neither will feel sure as to the other's affections, and each will
distrust the other, while their children will be deceitful.

17. A timid woman should never marry a hesitating man, lest, like frightened children, each
keep perpetually re-alarming the other by imaginary fears.

18. An industrious, thrifty, hard-working man should marry a woman tolerably saving and industrious.
As the "almighty dollar" is now the great motor-wheel of humanity, and that to which most husbands
devote their entire lives to delve alone is uphill work.

       *       *       *       *       *

MARRIAGE SECURITIES.

1. SEEK EACH OTHER'S HAPPINESS.--A selfish marriage that seeks only its own happiness defeats
itself. Happiness is a fire that will not burn long on one stick.

2. DO NOT MARRY SUDDENLY.--It can always be done till it is done, if it is a proper thing to do.

3. MARRY IN YOUR OWN GRADE IN SOCIETY.--It is painful to be always apologizing for any one.
It is more painful to be apologized for.

4. DO NOT MARRY DOWNWARD.--It is hard enough to advance in the quality of life without being
loaded with clay heavier than your own. It will be sufficiently difficult to keep your children
up to your best level without having to correct a bias in their blood.

5. DO NOT SELL YOURSELF.--It matters not whether the price be money or position.

6. DO NOT THROW YOURSELF AWAY.--You will not receive too much, even if you are paid full price.

7. SEEK THE ADVICE OF YOUR PARENTS.--Your parents are your best friends. They will make more
sacrifice for you than any other mortals. They are elevated above selfishness concerning you.
If they differ from you concerning your choice, it is because they must.

8. DO NOT MARRY TO PLEASE ANY THIRD PARTY.--You must do the living and enduring.

9. DO NOT MARRY TO SPITE ANYBODY.--It would add wretchedness to folly.

10. DO NOT MARRY BECAUSE SOMEONE ELSE MAY SEEK THE SAME HAND.--One glove may not fit all hands
equally well.

11. DO NOT MARRY TO GET RID OF ANYBODY.--The coward who shot himself to escape from being drafted
was insane.

12. DO NOT MARRY MERELY FOR THE IMPULSE OF LOVE.--Love is a principle as well as an emotion.
So far as it is a sentiment it is a blind guide. It does not wait to test the presence of exalted
character in its object before breaking out into a flame. Shavings make a hot fire, but hard
coal is better for the Winter.

13. DO NOT MARRY WITHOUT LOVE.--A body without a soul soon becomes offensive.

14. TEST CAREFULLY THE EFFECT OF PROTRACTED ASSOCIATION.--If familiarity breeds contempt before
marriage it will afterward.

15. TEST CAREFULLY THE EFFECT OF PROTRACTED SEPARATION.--True love will defy both time and space.

16. CONSIDER CAREFULLY the right of your children under the laws of heredity. It is doubtful
whether you have a right to increase the number of invalids and cripples.

17. DO NOT MARRY SIMPLY BECAUSE YOU HAVE PROMISED TO DO SO.--If a seam opens between you now
it will widen into a gulf. It is less offensive to retract a mistaken promise than to perjure
your soul before the altar. Your intended spouse has a right to absolute integrity.

18. MARRY CHARACTER.--It is not so much what one has as what one is.

19. DO NOT MARRY THE WRONG OBJECT.--Themistocles said he would rather marry his daughter to
a man without money than to money with a man. It is well to have both. It is fatal to have neither.

20. DEMAND A JUST RETURN.--You give virtue and purity, and gentleness and integrity. You have
a right to demand the same in return. Duty requires it.

21. REQUIRE BRAINS.--Culture is good, but will not be transmitted. Brain power may be.

22. STUDY PAST RELATIONSHIP.--The good daughter and sister makes a good wife. The good son
and brother makes a good husband.

23. NEVER MARRY AS A MISSIONARY DEED.--If one needs saving from bad habits he is not suitable
for you.

24. MARRIAGE IS A SURE AND SPECIFIC REMEDY for all the ills known as seminal losses. As right
eating cures a sick stomach and right breathing diseased lungs, so the right use of the sexual
organs will bring relief and restoration. Many men who have been sufferers from indiscretions
of youth, have married, and were soon cured of spermatorrhoea and other complications which
accompanied it.

25. A GOOD, LONG COURTSHIP will often cure many difficulties or ills of the sexual organs.
O.S. Fowler says: "See each other often spend many pleasant hours together," have many walks
and talks, think of each other while absent, write many love letters, be inspired to many love
feelings and acts towards each other, and exercise your sexuality in a thousand forms ten thousand
times, every one of which tones up and thereby recuperates this very element now dilapidated.
When you have courted long enough to marry, you will be sufficiently restored to be reimproved
by it.

UP AND AT IT.--Dress up, spruce up, and be on the alert. Don't wait too long to get one much
more perfect than you are; but settle on some one soon. Remember that your unsexed state renders
you over-dainty, and easily disgusted. So contemplate only their lovable qualities.

26. PURITY OF PURPOSE.--Court with a pure and loyal purpose, and when thoroughly convinced
that the disposition of other difficulties are in the way of a happy marriage life, then honorably
discuss it and honorably treat each other in the settlement.

27. DO NOT TRIFLE with the feelings or affections of each other. It is a sin that will curse
you all the days of your life.

       *       *       *       *       *

WOMEN WHO MAKE THE BEST WIVES.

1. CONSCIOUS OF THE DUTIES OF HER SEX.--A woman conscious of the duties of her sex, one who
unflinchingly discharges the duties allotted to her by nature, would no doubt make a good wife.

2. GOOD WIVES AND MOTHERS.--The good wives and mothers are the women who believe in the sisterhood
of women as well as in the brotherhood of men. The highest exponent of this type seeks to make
her home something more than an abode where children are fed, clothed and taught the catechism.
The State has taken her children into politics by making their education a function of politicians.
The good wife and homemaker says to her children, "Where thou goest, I will go." She puts off
her own inclinations to ease and selfishness. She studies the men who propose to educate her
children; she exhorts mothers to sit beside fathers on the school-board; she will even herself
accept such thankless office in the interests of the helpless youth of the schools who need
a mother's as well as a father's and a teacher's care in this field of politics.

3. A BUSY WOMAN.--As to whether a busy woman, that is, a woman who labors for mankind in the
world outside her home,--whether such an one can also be a good housekeeper, and care for her
children, and make a real "Home, Sweet Home!" with all the comforts by way of variation, why!
I am ready, as the result of years practical experience as a busy woman, to assert that women
of affairs can also be women of true domestic tastes and habits.

4. BRAINY ENOUGH.--What kind of women make the best wives? The woman who is brainy enough to
be a companion, wise enough to be a counsellor, skilled enough in the domestic virtues to be
a good housekeeper, and loving enough to guide in true paths the children with whom the home
may be blessed.

5. FOUND THE RIGHT HUSBAND.--The best wife is the woman who has found the right husband, a
husband who understands her. A man will have the best wife when he rates that wife as queen
among women. Of all women she should always be to him the dearest. This sort of man will not
only praise the dishes made by his wife, but will actually eat them.

6. BANK ACCOUNT.--He will allow his life-companion a bank account, and will exact no itemized
bill at the end of the month. Above all, he will pay the Easter bonnet bill without a word,
never bring a friend to dinner without first telephoning home,--short, he will comprehend that
the woman who makes the best wife is the woman whom, by his indulgence of her ways and whims,
he makes the best wife. So after all, good husbands have the most to do with making good wives.

7. BEST HOME MAKER.--A woman to be the best home maker needs to be devoid of intensive "nerves."
She must be neat and systematic, but not too neat, lest she destroy the comfort she endeavors
to create. She must be distinctly amiable, while firm. She should have no "career," or desire
for a career, if she would fill to perfection the home sphere. She must be affectionate, sympathetic
and patient, and fully appreciative of the worth and dignity of her sphere.

8. KNOW NOTHING WHATSOEVER ABOUT COOKING OR SEWING OR HOUSEKEEPING.--I am inclined to make
my answer to this question somewhat concise, after the manner of a text without the sermon.
Like this: To be the "best wife" depends upon three things: first, an abiding faith with God;
second, duty lovingly discharged as daughter, wife and mother; third, self-improvement, mentally,
physically, spiritually. With this as a text and as a glittering generality, let me touch upon
one or two practical essentials. In the course of every week it is my privilege to meet hundreds
of young women,--prospective wives. I am astonished to find that many of these know nothing
whatsoever about cooking or sewing or housekeeping. Now, if a woman cannot broil a beefsteak,
nor boil the coffee when it is necessary, if she cannot mend the linen, nor patch a coat, if
she cannot make a bed, order the dinner, create a lamp-shade, ventilate the house, nor do anything
practical in the way of making home actually a home, how can she expect to make even a good
wife, not to speak of a better or best wife? I need not continue this sermon. Wise girls will
understand.

9. THE BEST KEEPER OF HOME.--As to who is the best keeper of this transition home, memory pictures
to me a woman grown white under the old slavery, still bound by it, in that little-out-of-the-way
Kansas town, but never so bound that she could not put aside household tasks, at any time,
for social intercourse, for religious conversation, for correspondence, for reading, and, above
all, for making everyone who came near her feel that her home was the expression of herself,
a place for rest, study, and the cultivation of affection. She did not exist for her walls,
her carpets, her furniture; they existed for her and all who came to her She considered herself
the equal of all; and everyone else thought her the superior of all.

       *       *       *       *       *

ADAPTATION, CONJUGAL AFFECTION, AND FATAL ERRORS.

ADVICE TO THE MARRIED AND UNMARRIED.

1. MARRYING FOR WEALTH.--Those who marry for wealth often get what they marry and nothing else;
for rich girls besides being generally destitute of both industry and economy, are generally
extravagant in their expenditures, and require servants enough to dissipate a fortune. They
generally have insatiable wants, yet feel that they deserve to be indulged in everything, because
they placed their husbands under obligation to them by bringing them a dowry. And then the
mere idea of living on the money of a wife, and of being supported by her, is enough to tantalize
any man of an independent spirit.

2. SELF-SUPPORT.--What spirited husband would not prefer to support both himself and wife,
rather than submit to this perpetual bondage of obligation. To live upon a father, or take
a patrimony from him, is quite bad enough; but to run in debt to a wife, and owe her a living,
is a little too aggravating for endurance, especially if there be not perfect cordiality between
the two, which cannot be the case in money matches. Better live wifeless, or anything else,
rather than marry for money.

3. MONEY-SEEKERS.--Shame on sordid wife-seekers, or, rather, money-seekers; for it is not a
wife that they seek, but only filthy lucre! They violate all their other faculties simply to
gratify miserly desire. Verily such "have their reward"!

4. THE PENITENT HOUR.--And to you, young ladies, let me say with great emphasis, that those
who court and marry you because you are rich, will make you rue the day of your pecuniary espousals.
They care not for you, but only your money, and when they get that, will be liable to neglect
or abuse you, and probably squander it, leaving you destitute and abandoning you to your fate.

6. INDUSTRY THE SIGN OF NOBILITY.--Marry a working, industrious young lady, whose constitution
is strong, flesh solid, and health unimpaired by confinement, bad habits, or late hours. Give
me a plain, home-spun farmer's daughter, and you may have all the rich and fashionable belles
of our cities and villages.

6. WASP WAISTS.--Marrying small waists is attended with consequences scarcely less disastrous
than marrying rich and fashionable girls. An amply developed chest is a sure indication of
a naturally vigorous constitution and a strong hold on life; while small waists indicate small
and feeble vital organs, a delicate constitution, sickly offspring, and a short life. Beware
of them, therefore, unless you wish your heart broken by the early death of your wife and children.

7. MARRYING TALKERS.--In marrying a wit or a talker merely, though the brilliant scintillations
of the former, or the garrulity of the latter, may amuse or delight you for the time being,
yet you will derive no permanent satisfaction from these qualities, for there will be no common
bond of kindred feeling to assimilate your souls and hold each spell-bound at the shrine of
the other's intellectual or moral excellence.

8. THE SECOND WIFE.--Many men, especially in choosing a second wife, are governed by her own
qualifications as a housekeeper mainly, and marry industry and economy. Though these traits
of character are excellent, yet a good housekeeper may be far from being a good wife. A good
housekeeper, but a poor wife, may indeed prepare you a good dinner, and keep her house and
children neat and tidy, yet this is but a part of the office of a wife; who, besides all her
household duties, has those of a far higher order to perform. She should soothe you with her
sympathies, divert your troubled mind, and make the whole family happy by the gentleness of
her manners, and the native goodness of her heart. A husband should also likewise do his part.

9. DO NOT MARRY A MAN WITH A LOW, FLAT HEAD; for, however fascinating, genteel, polite, tender,
plausible or winning he may be, you will repent the day of your espousal.

10. HEALTHY WIRES AND MOTHERS.--Let girls romp, and let them range hill and dale in search
of flowers, berries, or any other object of amusement or attraction; let them bathe often,
skip the rope, and take a smart ride on horseback; often interspersing these amusements with
a turn of sweeping or washing, in order thereby to develop their vital organs, and thus lay
a substantial physical foundation for becoming good wives and mothers. The wildest romps usually
make the best wives, while quiet, still, demure, sedate and sedentary girls are not worth having.

11. SMALL STATURE.--In passing, I will just remark, that good size is important in wives and
mothers. A small stature is objectionable in a woman, because little women usually have too
much activity for their strength, and, consequently, feeble constitutions; hence they die young,
and besides, being nervous, suffer extremely as mothers.

12. HARD TIMES AND MATRIMONY.--Many persons, particularly young men, refuse to marry, especially
"these hard time," because they cannot support a wife in the style they wish. To this I reply,
that a good wife will care less for the style in which she is supported, than for you. She
will cheerfully conform to your necessities, and be happy with you in a log-cabin. She will
even help you support yourself. To support a good wife, even if she have children, is really
less expensive than to board alone, besides being one of the surest means of acquiring property.

13. MARRYING FOR A HOME.--Do not, however, marry for a home merely, unless you wish to become
even more destitute with one than without one; for, it is on the same footing with "marrying
for money." Marry a man for his merit; and you take no chances.

14. MARRY TO PLEASE NO ONE BUT YOURSELF.--Marriage is a matter exclusively your own; because
you alone must abide its consequences. No person, not even a parent, has the least right to
interfere or dictate in this matter. I never knew a marriage, made to please another, to turn
out any otherwise than most unhappily.

15. DO NOT MARRY TO PLEASE YOUR PARENTS. Parents can not love for their children any more than
they can eat or sleep, or breathe, or die and go to heaven for them. They may give wholesome
advice merely, but should leave the entire decision to the unbiased judgment of the parties
themselves, who mainly are to experience the consequences of their choice. Besides, such is
human nature, that to oppose lovers, or to speak against the person beloved, only increases
their desire and determination to marry.

16. RUN-AWAY MATCHES.--Many a run-away match would never have taken place but for opposition
or interference. Parents are mostly to be blamed for these elopements. Their children marry
partly out of sprite and to be contrary. Their very natures tell them that this interference
is unjust--as it really is--and this excites combativeness, firmness, and self-esteem, in combination
with the social faculties, to powerful and even blind resistance--which turmoil of the faculties
hastens the match. Let the affections of a daughter be once slightly enlisted in your favor,
and then let the "old folks" start an opposition, and you may feel sure of your prize. If she
did not love you before, she will now, that you are persecuted.

17. DISINHERITANCE.--Never disinherit, or threaten to disinherit, a child for marrying against
your will. If you wish a daughter not to marry a certain man, oppose her, and she will be sure
to marry him; so also in reference to a son.

18. PROPER TRAINING.--The secret is, however, all in a nutshell. Let the father properly train
his daughter, and she will bring her first love-letter to him, and give him an opportunity
to cherish a suitable affection, and to nip an improper one in the germ, before it has time
to do any harm.

19. THE FATAL MISTAKES OF PARENTS.--There is, however one way of effectually preventing an
improper match, and that is, not to allow your children to associate with any whom you are
unwilling they should marry. How cruel as well at unjust to allow a daughter to associate with
a young man till the affections of both are riveted, and then forbid her marrying him. Forbid
all association, or consent cheerfully to the marriage.

20. AN INTEMPERATE LOVER.--Do not flatter yourselves young women, that you can wean even an
occasional wine drinker from his cups by love and persuasion. Ardent spirit at first, kindles
up the fires of love into the fierce flames of burning licentiousness, which burn out every
element of love and destroy every vestige of pure affection. It over-excites the passions,
and thereby finally destroys it,--producing at first, unbridled libertinism, and then an utter
barrenness of love; besides reversing the other faculties of the drinker against his own consort,
and those of the wife against her drinking husband.

       *       *       *       *       *

FIRST LOVE, DESERTION AND DIVORCE.

1. FIRST LOVE.--This is the most important direction of all. The first love experiences a tenderness,
a purity and unreservedness, an exquisiteness, a devotedness, and a poetry belonging to no
subsequent attachment. "Love, like life, has no second spring." Though a second attachment
may be accompanied by high moral feeling, and to a devotedness to the object loved; yet, let
love be checked or blighted in its first pure emotion, and the beauty of its spring is irrecoverably
withered and lost. This does not mean the simple love of children in the first attachment they
call love, but rather the mature intelligent love of those of suitable age.

2. FREE FROM TEMPTATIONS.--As long as his heart is bound up in its first bundle of love and
devotedness--as long as his affections remain reciprocated and uninterrupted--so long temptations
cannot take effect. This heart is callous to the charms of others, and the very idea of bestowing
his affections upon another is abhorrent. Much more so is animal indulgence, which is morally
impossible.

3. SECOND LOVE NOT CONSTANT.--But let this first love be broken off, and the flood-gates of
passion are raised. Temptations now flow in upon him. He casts a lustful eye upon every passing
female, and indulges unchaste imaginations and feelings. Although his conscientiousness or
intellect may prevent actual indulgence, yet temptations now take effect, and render him liable
to err; whereas before they had no power to awaken improper thoughts or feelings. Thus many
young men find their ruin.

4. LEGAL MARRIAGE.--What would any woman give for merely a nominal or legal husband, just to
live with and provide for her, but who entertained not one spark of love for her, or whose
affections were bestowed upon another? How absurd, how preposterous the doctrine that the obligations
of marriage derive their sacredness from legal enactments and injunctions! How it literally
profanes this holy of holies, and drags down this heaven-born institution from its original,
divine elevation, to the level of a merely human device. Who will dare to advocate the human
institution of marriage without the warm heart of a devoted and loving companion!

5. LEGISLATION.--But no human legislation can so guard this institution but that it may be
broken in spirit, though, perhaps, acceded to in form; for, it is the heart which this institution
requires. There must be true and devoted affection, or marriage is a farce and a failure.

6. THE MARRIAGE CEREMONY AND THE LAW GOVERNING MARRIAGE are for the protection of the individual,
yet a man and woman may be married by law and yet unmarried in spirit. The law may tie together,
and no marriage be consummated. Marriage therefore is Divine, and "whom God hath joined together
let no man put asunder." A right marriage means a right state of the heart. A careful study
of this work will be a great help to both the unmarried and the married.

7. DESERTION AND DIVORCE.--For a young man to court a young woman, and excite her love till
her affections are riveted, and then (from sinister motives, such as, to marry one richer,
or more handsome), to leave her, and try elsewhere, is the very same crime as to divorce her
from all that she holds dear on earth--to root up and pull out her imbedded affections, and
to tear her from her rightful husband. First love is always constant. The second love brings
uncertainty--too often desertions before marriage and divorces after marriage.

8. THE COQUET.--The young woman to play the coquet, and sport with the sincere affections of
an honest and devoted young man, is one of the highest crimes that human nature can commit.
Better murder him in body too, as she does in soul and morals, and it is the result of previous
disappointment, never the outcome of a sincere first love.

9. ONE MARRIAGE. One evidence that second marriages are contrary to the laws of our social
nature, is the fact that almost all step-parents and step-children disagree. Now, what law
has been broken, to induce this penalty? The law of marriage; and this is one of the ways in
which the breach punishes itself. It is much more in accordance with our natural feelings,
especially those of mothers, that children should be brought up by their own parent.

10. SECOND MARRIAGE.--Another proof of this point is, that second marriage is more a matter
of business. "I'll give you a home, if you'll take care of my children." "It's a bargain,"
is the way most second matches are made. There is little of the poetry of first-love, and little
of the coyness and shrinking diffidence which characterize the first attachment. Still these
remarks apply almost equally to a second attachment, as to second marriage.

11. THE CONCLUSION OF THE WHOLE MATTER.--Let this portion be read and pondered, and also the
one entitled, "Marry your First Love if possible," which assigns the cause, and points out
the only remedy, of licentiousness. As long as the main cause of this vice exists, and is aggravated
by purse-proud, high-born, aristocratic parents and friends, and even by the virtuous and religious,
just so long, and exactly in the same ratio will this blighting Sirocco blast the fairest flowers
of female innocence and lovliness, and blight our noblest specimens of manliness. No sin of
our land is greater.

       *       *       *       *       *

FLIRTING AND ITS DANGERS.

1. NO EXCUSE.--In this country there is no excuse for the young man who seeks the society of
the loose and the dissolute. There is at all times and everywhere open to him a society of
persons of the opposite sex of his own age and of pure thoughts and lives, whose conversation
will refine him and drive from his bosom ignoble and impure thoughts.

2. THE DANGERS.--The young man who may take pleasure in the fact that he is the hero of half
a dozen or more engagements and love episodes, little realizes that such constant excitement
often causes not only dangerously frequent and long-continued nocturnal emissions, but most
painful affections of the testicles. Those who show too great familiarity with the other sex,
who entertain lascivious thoughts, continually exciting the sexual desires, always suffer a
weakening of power and sometimes the actual diseases of degeneration, chronic inflammation
of the gland, spermatorrhoea, impotence, and the like.--Young man, beware; your punishment
for trifling with the affections of others may cost you a life of affliction.

3. REMEDY.--Do not violate the social laws. Do not trifle with the affections of your nature.
Do not give others countless anguish, and also do not run the chances of injuring yourself
and others for life. The society of refined and pure women is one of the strongest safeguards
a young man can have, and he who seeks it will not only find satisfaction, but happiness. Simple
friendship and kind affections for each other will ennoble and benefit.

4. THE TIME FOR MARRIAGE.--When a young man's means permit him to marry, he should then look
intelligently for her with whom he expects to pass the remainder of his life in perfect loyalty,
and in sincerity and singleness of heart. Seek her to whom he is ready to swear to be ever true.

5. BREACH OF CONFIDENCE.--Nothing is more certain, says Dr. Naphey, to undermine domestic felicity,
and sap the foundation of marital happiness, than marital infidelity. The risks of disease
which a married man runs in impure intercourse are far more serious, because they not only
involve himself, but his wife and his children. He should know that there is nothing which
a woman will not forgive sooner than such a breach of confidence. He is exposed to the plots
and is pretty certain sooner or later to fall into the snares of those atrocious parties who
subsist on black-mail. And should he escape these complications, he still must lose self-respect,
and carry about with him the burden of a guilty conscience and a broken vow.

6. SOCIETY RULES AND CUSTOMS.--A young man can enjoy the society of ladies without being a
"flirt." He can escort ladies to parties, public places of interest, social gatherings, etc.,
without showing special devotion to any one special young lady. When he finds the choice of
his heart, then he will be justified to manifest it, and publicly proclaim it by paying her
the compliment, exclusive attention. To keep a lady's company six months is a public announcement
of an engagement.

       *       *       *       *       *

A WORD TO MAIDENS.

1. NO YOUNG LADY who is not willing to assume the responsibility of a true wife, and be crowned
with the sacred diadem of motherhood, should ever think of getting married. We have too many
young ladies to-day who despise maternity, who openly vow that they will never be burdened
with children, and yet enter matrimony at the first opportunity. What is the result? Let echo
answer, What? Unless a young lady believes that motherhood is noble, is honorable, is divine,
and she is willing to carry out that sacred function of her nature, she had a thousand times
better refuse every proposal, and enter some honorable occupation and wisely die an old maid
by choice.

2. ON THE OTHER HAND, YOUNG LADY, never enter into the physical relations of marriage with
a man until you have conversed with him freely and fully on these relations. Learn distinctly
his views and feelings and expectations in regard to that purest and most ennobling of all
the functions of your nature, and the most sacred of all intimacies of conjugal love. Your
self-respect, your beauty, your glory, your heaven, as a wife, will be more directly involved
in his feelings and views and practices, in regard to that relation, than in all other things.
As you would not become a weak, miserable, imbecile, unlovable and degraded wife and mother,
in the very prime of your life, come to a perfect understanding with your chosen one, ere you
commit your person to his keeping in the sacred intimacies of home. Beware of that man who,
under pretence of delicacy, modesty, and propriety, shuns conversation with you on this relation,
and on the hallowed function of maternity.

3. TALK WITH YOUR INTENDED frankly and openly. Remember, concealment and mystery in him, towards
you, on all other subjects pertaining to conjugal union might be overlooked, but if he conceals
his views here, rest assured it bodes no good to your purity and happiness as a wife and mother.
You can have no more certain assurance that you are to be victimized, your soul and body offered
up, slain on the altar of his sensualism, than his unwillingness to converse with you on subjects
so vital to your happiness. Unless he is willing to hold his manhood in abeyance to the calls
of your nature and to your conditions, and consecrate its passions and its powers to the elevation
and happiness of his wife and children, your maiden soul had better return to God unadorned
with the diadem of conjugal and maternal love than that you should become the wife of such
man and the mother of his children.

       *       *       *       *       *

POPPING THE QUESTION.

1. MAKING THE DECLARATION.--There are few emergencies in business and few events in life that
bring to man the trying ordeal of "proposing to a lady." We should be glad to help the bashful
lover in his hours of perplexity, embarrassment and hesitation, but unfortunately we cannot
pop the question for him, nor give him a formula by which he may do it. Different circumstances
and different surroundings compel every lover to be original in his form or mode of proposing.

2. BASHFULNESS.--If a young man is very bashful, he should write his sentiments in a clear,
frank manner on a neat white sheet of note paper, enclose it in a plain white envelope and
find some way to convey it to the lady's hand.

3. THE ANSWER.--If the beloved one's heart is touched and she is in sympathy with the lover,
the answer should be frankly and unequivocally given. If the negative answer is necessary,
it should be done in the kindest and most sympathetic language, yet definite, positive and
to the point, and the gentleman should at once withdraw his suit and continue friendly but
not familiar.

4. SAYING "NO" FOR "YES."-If girls are foolish enough to say "No" when they mean "Yes," they
must suffer the consequences which often follow. A man of intelligence and self-respect will
not ask a lady twice. It is begging for recognition and lowers his dignity, should he do so.
A lady is supposed to know her heart sufficiently to consider the question to her satisfaction
before giving an answer.

5. CONFUSION OF WORDS AND MISUNDERSTANDING.--Sometimes a man's happiness, has depended on his
manner of popping the question. Many a time the girl has said "No" because the question was
so worded that the affirmative did not come from the mouth naturally; and two lives that gravitated
toward each other with all their inward force have been thrown suddenly apart, because the
electric keys were not carefully touched.

6. SCRIPTURAL DECLARATION.--The church is not the proper place to conduct a courtship, yet
the following is suggestive and ingenious.

A young gentleman, familiar with the Scriptures, happening to sit in a pew adjoining a young
lady for whom he conceived a violent attachment, made his proposal in this way.

She returned it, pointing to the second chapter of Ruth, verse 10: "Then she fell on her face,
and bowed herself to the ground, and said unto him.

From the above interview a marriage took place the ensuing month in the same church.

7. HOW JENNY WAS WON.

  On a sunny Summer morning,
  Early as the dew was dry,
  Up the hill I went a berrying;
  Need I tell you--tell you why?

  Farmer Davis had a daughter.
  And it happened that I knew,
  On each sunny morning, Jenny
  Up the hill went berrying too.

  Lonely work is picking berries,
  So I joined her on the hill:
  "Jenny, dear," said I, "your basket's
  Quite too large for one to fill."

  So we stayed--we two--to fill it,
  Jenny talking--I was still.--
  Leading where the hill was steepest,
  Picking berries up the hill.

  "This is up-hill work," said Jenny;
  "So is life," said I; "shall we
  Climb it each alone, or, Jenny,
  Will you come and climb with me?"

  Redder than the blushing berries
  Jenny's cheek a moment grew,
  While without delay she answered,
  "I will come and climb with you."

8. A ROMANTIC WAY FOR PROPOSING.--In Peru they have a romantic way of popping the question.
The suitor appears on the appointed evening, with a gaily dressed troubadour under the balcony
of his beloved. The singer steps before her flower-bedecked window, and sings her beauties
in the name of her lover. He compares her size to that of a pear tree, her lips to two blushing
rose-buds, and her womanly form to that of a dove. With assumed harshness the lady asks her
lover: Who are you, and what do you want? He answers with ardent confidence: "Thy love I do
adore. The stars live in the harmony of love, and why should not we, too, love each other?"
Then the proud beauty gives herself away: she takes her flower-wreath from her hair and throws
it down to her lover, promising to be his forever.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WEDDING.

1. THE PROPER TIME.--Much has been printed in various volumes regarding the time of the year,
the influence of the seasons, etc., as determining the proper time to set for the wedding day.
Circumstances must govern these things. To be sure, it is best to avoid extremes of heat and
cold. Very hot weather is debilitating, and below zero is uncomfortable.

2. THE LADY SHOULD SELECT THE DAY.--There is one element in the time that is of great importance,
physically, especially to the lady. It is the day of the month, and it is hoped that every
lady who contemplates marriage is informed upon the great facts of ovulation. By reading page
244 she will understand that it is to her advantage to select a wedding day about fifteen or
eighteen days after the close of menstruation in the month chosen, since it is not best that
the first child should be conceived during the excitement or irritation of first attempts at
congress; besides modest brides naturally do not wish to become large with child before the
season of congratulation and visiting on their return from the "wedding tour" is over.

Again, it is asserted by many of the best writers on this subject, that the mental condition
of either parent at the time of intercourse will be stamped upon the embryo hence it is not
only best, but wise, that the first-born should not be conceived until several months after
marriage, when the husband and wife have nicely settled in their new home, and become calm
in their experience of each other's society.

3. THE "BRIDAL TOUR" is considered by many newly married couples as a necessary introduction
to a life of connubial joy. There is, in our opinion, nothing in the custom to recommend it.
After the excitement and overwork before and accompanying a wedding, the period immediately
following should be one of rest.

Again, the money expended on the ceremony and a tour of the principal cities, etc., might,
in most cases, be applied to a multitude of after-life comforts of far more lasting value and
importance. To be sure, it is not pleasant for the bride, should she remain at home, to pass
through the ordeal of criticism and vulgar comments of acquaintances and friends, and hence,
to escape this, the young couple feel like getting away for a time. Undoubtedly the best plan
for the great majority, after this most eventful ceremony, is to enter their future home at
once, and there to remain in comparative privacy until the novelty of the situation is worn off.

4. IF THE CONVENTIONAL TOUR is taken, the husband should remember that his bride cannot stand
the same amount of tramping around and sight-seeing that he can. The female organs of generation
are so easily affected by excessive exercise of the limbs which support them, that at this
critical period it would be a foolish and cosily experience to drag a lady hurriedly around
the country on an extensive and protracted round of sight-seeing or visiting. Unless good common-sense
is displayed in the manner of spending the "honey-moon," it will prove very untrue to its name.
In many cases it lays the foundation for the wife's first and life-long "backache."

       *       *       *       *       *

ADVICE TO NEWLY MARRIED COUPLES.

1. "BE YE FRUITFUL AND MULTIPLY" is a Bible commandment which the children of men habitually
obey. However they may disagree on other subjects, all are in accord on this; the barbarous,
the civilized, the high, the low, the fierce, the gentle--all unite in the desire which finds
its accomplishment in the reproduction of their kind. Who shall quarrel with the Divinely implanted
instinct, or declare it to be vulgar or unmentionable? It is during the period of the honeymoon
that the intensity of this desire, coupled with the greatest curiosity, is at its height, and
the unbridled license often given the passions at this time is attended with the most dangerous
consequences.

2. CONSUMMATION OF MARRIAGE.--The first time that the husband and wife cohabit together after
the ceremony has been performed is called the consummation of marriage. Many grave errors have
been committed by people in this, when one or both of the contracting parties were not physically
or sexually in a condition to carry out the marriage relation. A marriage, however, is complete
without this in the eyes of the law, as it is a maxim taken from the Roman civil statutes that
consent, not cohabitation, is the binding element in the ceremony. Yet, in most States of the
U.S., and in some other countries, marriage is legally declared void and of no effect where
it is not possible to consummate the marriage relation. A divorce may be obtained provided
the injured party begins the suit.

3. TEST OF VIRGINITY.--The consummation of marriage with a virgin is not necessarily attended
with a flow of blood, and the absence of this sign is not the slightest presumption against
her former chastity. The true test of virginity is modesty void of any disagreeable familiarity.
A sincere Christian faith is one of the best recommendations.

4. LET EVERY MAN REMEMBER that the legal right of marriage does not carry with it the moral
right to injure for life the loving companion he has chosen. Ignorance may be the cause, but
every man before he marries should know something of the physiology and the laws of health,
and we here give some information which is of very great importance to every newly-married man.

5. SENSUALITY.--Lust crucifies love. The young sensual husband is generally at fault. Passion
sways and the duty to bride and wife is not thought of, and so a modest young wife is often
actually forced and assaulted by the unsympathetic haste of her husband. An amorous man in
that way soon destroys his own love, and thus is laid the foundation for many difficulties
that soon develop trouble and disturb the happiness of both.

6. ABUSE AFTER MARRIAGE.--Usually marriage is consummated within a day or two after the ceremony,
but this is gross injustice to the bride. In most cases she is nervous, timid, and exhausted
by the duties of preparation for the wedding, and in no way in a condition, either in body
or mind, for the vital change which the married relation bring upon her. Many a young husband
often lays the foundation of many diseases of the womb and of the nervous system in gratifying
his unchecked passions without a proper regard for his wife's exhausted condition.

7. THE FIRST CONJUGAL APPROACHES are usually painful to the new wife, and no enjoyment to her
follows. Great caution and kindness should be exercised. A young couple rushing together in
their animal passion soon produce a nervous and irritating condition which ere long brings
apathy, indifference, if not dislike. True love and a high regard for each other will temper
passion into moderation.

8. WERE THE ABOVE INJUNCTIONS HEEDED fully and literally it would be folly to say more, but
this would be omitting all account of the bridegroom's new position, the power of his passion,
and the timidity of the fair creature who is wondering what fate has in store for her trembling
modesty. To be sure, there are some women who are possessed of more forward natures and stronger
desires than others. In such cases there may be less trouble.

9. A COMMON ERROR.--The young husband may have read in some treatise on physiology that the
hymen in a virgin is the great obstacle to be overcome. He is apt to conclude that this is
all, that some force will be needed to break it down, and that therefore an amount of urgency
even to the degree of inflicting considerable pain is justifiable. This is usually wrong. It
rarely constitutes any obstruction and, even when its rupturing may be necessary, it alone
seldom causes suffering.

There are sometimes certain deformities of the vagina, but no woman should knowingly seek matrimonial
relations when thus afflicted.

We quote from Dr. C.A. Huff the following:

10. "WHAT IS IT, THEN, THAT USUALLY CAUSES distress to many women, whether a bride or a long-time
wife?" The answer is, Simply those conditions of the organs in which they are not properly
prepared, by anticipation and desire, to receive a foreign body. The modest one craves only
refined and platonic love at first, and if husbands, new and old, would only realize this plain
truth, wife-torturing would cease and the happiness of each one of all human pairs vastly increase.

11. THE CONDITIONS OF THE FEMALE organs depend upon the state of the mind just as much as in
the case of the husband. The male, however, being more sensual, is more quickly roused. She
is far less often or early ready. In its unexcited state the vagina is lax, its walls are closed
together, and their surfaces covered by but little lubricating secretion. The chaster one of
the pair has no desire that this sacred vestibule to the great arcana of procreation shall
be immediately and roughly invaded. This, then, is the time for all approaches by the husband
to be of the most delicate, considerate, and refined description possible. The quietest and
softest demeanor, with gentle and re-assuring words, are all that should be attempted at first.
The wedding day has probably been one of fatigue, and it is foolish to go farther.

12. FOR MORE THAN ONE NIGHT it will be wise, indeed, if the wife's confidence shall be as much
wooed and won by patient, delicate, and prolonged courting, as before the marriage engagement.
How long should this period of waiting be can only be decided by the circumstances of any case.
The bride will ultimately deny no favor which is sought with full deference to her modesty,
and in connection with which bestiality is not exhibited. Her nature is that of delicacy; her
affection is of a refined character; if the love and conduct offered to her are a careful effort
to adapt roughness and strength to her refinement and weakness, her admiration and responsive
love will be excited to the utmost.

13. WHEN THAT MOMENT ARRIVES when the bride finds she can repose perfect confidence in the
kindness of her husband, that his love is not purely animal, and that no violence will be attempted,
the power of her affection for him will surely assert itself; the mind will act on those organs
which nature has endowed to fulfil the law of her being, the walls of the vagina will expand,
and the glands at the entrance will be fully lubricated by a secretion of mucous which renders
congress a matter of comparative ease.

14. WHEN THIS RESPONSIVE ENLARGEMENT and lubrication are fully realized, it is made plain why
the haste and force so common to first and subsequent coition, is, as it has been justly called,
nothing but "legalized rape." Young husband, Prove your manhood, not by yielding to unbridled
lust and cruelty, but by the exhibition of true power in self-control and patience with the
helpless being confided to your care. Prolong the delightful season of courting into and through
wedded life and rich shall be your reward.

15. A WANT OF DESIRE may often prevail, and may be caused by loss of sleep, study, constant
thought, mental disturbance, anxiety, self-abuse, excessive use of tobacco or alcoholic drink,
etc. Overwork may cause debility; a man may not have an erection for months, yet it may not
be a sign of debility, sexual lethargy or impotence. Get the mind and the physical constitution
in proper condition, and most all these difficulties will disappear. Good athletic exercise
by walking, riding, or playing croquet, or any other amusement, will greatly improve the condition.
A good rest, however, will be necessary to fully restore the mind and the body, then the natural
condition of the sexual organs will be resumed.

16. HAVING TWINS.--Having twins is undoubtedly hereditary and descends from generation to generation,
and persons who have twins are generally those who have great sexual vigor. It is generally
the result of a second cohabitation immediately following the first, but some parents have
twins who cohabit but once during several days.

17. PROPER INTERCOURSE.--The right relation of a newly-married couple will rather increase
than diminish love. To thus offer up the maiden on the altar of love and affection only swells
her flood of joy and bliss; whereas, on the other hand, sensuality humbles, debases, pollutes,
and never elevates. Young husbands should wait for an invitation to the banquet and they will
be amply paid by the very pleasure sought. Invitation or permission delights, and possession
by force degrades. The right-minded bridegroom will postpone the exercise of his nuptial rights
for a few days, and allow his young wife to become rested from the preparation and fatigue
of the wedding, and become accustomed to the changes in her new relations of life.

18. RIGHTLY BEGINNING SEXUAL LIFE.--Intercourse promotes all the functions of the body and
mind, but rampant just and sexual abuses soon destroy the natural pleasures of intercourse,
and unhappiness will be the result. Remember that intercourse should not become the polluted
purpose of marriage. To be sure, rational enjoyment benefits and stimulates love, but the pleasure
of each other's society, standing together on all questions of mutual benefit, working hand
in hand and shoulder to shoulder in the battle of life, raising a family of beautiful children,
sharing each other's joys and sorrows, are the things that bring to every couple the best,
purest, and noblest enjoyment that God has bestowed upon man.

       *       *       *       *       *

SEXUAL PROPRIETIES AND IMPROPRIETIES.

1. To have offspring is not to be regarded as a luxury, but as a great primary necessity of
health and happiness, of which every fully-developed man and woman should have a fair share,
while it cannot be denied that the ignorance of the necessity of sexual intercourse to the
health and virtue of both man and woman is the most fundamental error in medical and moral
philosophy.

2. In a state of pure nature, where man would have his sexual instincts under full and natural
restraint, there would be little, if any, licentiousness, and children would be the result
of natural desire, and not the accidents of lust.

3. This is an age of sensuality; unnatural passions cultivated and indulged. Young people in
the course of their engagement often sow the seed of serious excesses. This habit of embracing,
sitting on the lover's lap, leaning on his breast, long and uninterrupted periods of secluded
companionship, have become so common that it is amazing how a young lady can safely arrive
at the wedding day. While this conduct may safely terminate with the wedding day, yet it cultivates
the tendency which often results in excessive indulgencies after the honey-moon is over.

4. SEPARATE BEDS.--Many writers have vigorously championed as a reform the practice of separate
beds for husband and wife. While we would not recommend such separation, it is no doubt very
much better for both husband and wife, in case the wife is pregnant. Where people are reasonably
temperate, no such ordinary precautions as separate sleeping places may be necessary. But in
case of pregnancy it will add rest to the mother and add vigor to the unborn child. Sleeping
together, however, is natural and cultivates true affection, and it is physiologically true
that in very cold weather life is prolonged by husband and wife sleeping together.

5. THE AUTHORITY OF THE WIFE.--Let the wife judge whether she desires a separate couch or not.
She has the superior right to control her own person. In such diseases as consumption, or other
severe or lingering diseases, separate beds should always be insisted upon.

6. THE TIME FOR INDULGENCE.--The health of the generative functions depends upon exercise,
just the same as any other vital organ. Intercourse should be absolutely avoided just before
or after meals, or just after mental excitement or physical exercise. No wife should indulge
her husband when he is under the influence of alcoholic stimulants, for idiocy and other serious
maladies are liable to be visited upon the offspring.

7. RESTRAINT DURING PREGNANCY.--There is no question but what moderate indulgence during the
first few months of pregnancy does not result in serious harm; but people who excessively satisfy
their ill-governed passions are liable to pay a serious penalty.

8. MISCARRIAGE.--If a woman is liable to abortion or miscarriage, absolute abstinence is the
only remedy. No sexual indulgence during pregnancy can be safely tolerated.

9. It is better for people not to marry until they are of proper age. It is a physiological
fact that men seldom reach the full maturity or their virile power before the age of twenty-five,
and the female rarely attains the full vigor of her sexual powers before the age of twenty.

10. ILLICIT PLEASURES.--The indulgence of illicit pleasures, says Dr. S. Pancoast, sooner or
later is sure to entail the most loathsome diseases on their votaries. Among these diseases
are Gonorrhoea, Syphilis, Spermatorrhoea (waste of semen by daily and nightly involuntary emissions),
Satyriasis (a species of sexual madness, or a sexual diabolism, causing men to commit rape
and other beastly acts and outrages, not only on women and children, but men and animals, as
sodomy, pederasty, etc.), Nymphomania (causing women to assail every man they meet, and supplicate
and excite him to gratify their lustful passions, or who resort to means of sexual pollutions,
which is impossible to describe without shuddering), together with spinal diseases and many
disorders of the most distressing and disgusting character filling the bones with rottenness,
and eating away the flesh by gangrenous ulcers, until the patient dies, a horrible mass of
putridity and corruption.

11. SENSUALITY.--Sensuality is not love, but an unbridled desire which kills the soul. Sensuality
will drive away the roses in the cheeks of womanhood, undermine health and produce a brazen
countenance that can be read by all men. The harlot may commit her sins in the dark, but her
countenance reveals her character and her immorality is an open secret.

12. SEXUAL TEMPERANCE.--All excesses and absurdities of every kind should be carefully avoided.
Many of the female disorders which often revenge themselves in the cessation of all sexual
pleasure are largely due to the excessive practice of sexual indulgence.

13. FREQUENCY.--Some writers claim that intercourse should never occur except for the purpose
of childbearing but such restraint is not natural and consequently not conducive to health.
There are many conditions in which the health of the mother and offspring must be respected.
It is now held that it is nearer a crime than a virtue to prostitute woman to the degradation
of breeding animals by compelling her to bring into life more offspring than can be born healthy,
or be properly cared for and educated.

14. In this work we shall attempt to specify no rule, but simply give advice as to the health
and happiness of both man and wife. A man should not gratify his own desires at the expense
of his wife's health, comfort or inclination. Many men no doubt harass their wives and force
many burdens upon their slender constitutions. But it is a great sin and no true husband will
demand unreasonable recognition. The wife when physically able, however, should bear with her
husband. Man is naturally sensitive on this subject, and it takes but little to alienate his
affections and bring discover into the family.

15. The best writers lay down the rule for the government of the marriage-bed, that sexual
indulgence should only occur about once in a week or ten days, and this of course applies only
to those who enjoy a fair degree of health. But it is a hygienic and physiological fact that
those who indulge only once a month receive a far greater degree of the intensity of enjoyment
than those who indulge their passions more frequently. Much pleasure is lost by excesses where
much might be gained by temperance giving rest to the organs for the accumulation of nervous force.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW TO PERPETUATE THE HONEY-MOON.

1. CONTINUE YOUR COURTSHIP.--Like causes produce like effects.

2. NEGLECT OF YOUR COMPANION.--Do not assume a right to neglect your companion more after marriage
than you did before.

3. SECRETS.--Have no secrets that you keep from your companion. A third party is always disturbing.

4. AVOID THE APPEARANCE OF EVIL.--In matrimonial matters it is often that the mere appearance
contains all the evil. Love, as soon as it rises above calculation and becomes love, is exacting.
It gives all, and demands all.

5. ONCE MARRIED, NEVER OPEN YOUR MIND TO ANY CHANGE. If you keep the door of your purpose closed,
evil or even desirable changes cannot make headway without help.

6. KEEP STEP IN MENTAL DEVELOPMENT.--A tree that grows for forty years may take all the sunlight
from a tree that stops growing at twenty.

7. KEEP A LIVELY INTEREST IN THE BUSINESS OF THE HOME.--Two that do not pull together are weaker
than either alone.

8. GAUGE YOUR EXPENSES BY YOUR REVENUES.--Love must eat. The sheriff often levies on Cupid
long before he takes away the old furniture.

9. START FROM WHERE YOUR PARENTS STARTED RATHER THAN FROM WHERE THEY NOW ARE.--Hollow and showy
boarding often furnishes the too strong temptation, while the quietness of a humble home would
cement the hearts beyond risk.

10. AVOID DEBT.--Spend your own money, but earn it first, then it will not be necessary to
blame any one for spending other people's.

11. DO NOT BOTH GET ANGRY AT THE SAME TIME.--Remember, it takes two to quarrel.

12. DO NOT ALLOW YOURSELF EVER TO COME TO AN OPEN RUPTURE.--Things unsaid need less repentance.

13. STUDY TO CONFORM YOUR TASTES AND HABITS TO THE TASTES AND HABITS OF YOUR COMPANION.--If
two walk together, they must agree.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW TO BE A GOOD WIFE.

1. REVERENCE YOUR HUSBAND.--He sustains by God's order a position of dignity as head of a family,
head of the woman. Any breaking down of this order indicates a mistake in the union, or a digression
from duty.

2. LOVE HIM.--A wife loves as naturally as the sun shines. Love is your best weapon. You conquered
him with that in the first place. You can reconquer by the same means.

3. DO NOT CONCEAL YOUR LOVE FROM HIM.--If he is crowded with care, and too busy to seem to
heed your love, you need to give all the greater attention to securing his knowledge of your
love. If you intermit he will settle down into a hard, cold life with increased rapidity. Your
example will keep the light on his conviction. The more he neglects the fire on the hearth,
the more carefully must you feed and guard it. It must not be allowed to go out. Once out you
must sit ever in darkness and in the cold.

4. CULTIVATE THE MODESTY AND DELICACY OF YOUR YOUTH.--The relations and familiarity of wedded
life may seem to tone down the sensitive and retiring instincts of girlhood, but nothing can
compensate for the loss of these. However, much men may admire the public performance of gifted
women, they do not desire that boldness and dash in a wife. The holy blush of a maiden's modesty
is more powerful in hallowing and governing a home than the heaviest armament that ever a warrior
bore.

5. CULTIVATE PERSONAL ATTRACTIVENESS.--This means the storing of your mind with a knowledge
of passing events, and with a good idea of the world's general advance. If you read nothing,
and make no effort to make yourself attractive, you will soon sink down into a dull hack of
stupidity. If your husband never hears from you any words of wisdom, or of common information,
he will soon hear nothing from you. Dress and gossips soon wear out. If your memory is weak,
so that it hardly seems worth while to read, that is additional reason for reading.

6. CULTIVATE PHYSICAL ATTRACTIVENESS.--When you were encouraging the attentions of him whom
you now call husband, you did not neglect any item of dress or appearance that could help you.
Your hair was always in perfect training. You never greeted him with a ragged or untidy dress
or soiled hands. It is true that your "market is made," but you cannot afford to have it "broken."
Cleanliness and good taste will attract now as they did formerly. Keep yourself at your best.
Make the most of physical endowments. Neatness and order break the power of poverty.

7. STUDY YOUR HUSBAND'S CHARACTER.--He has his peculiarities. He has no right to many of them,
and you need to know them; thus you can avoid many hours of friction. The good pilot steers
around the sunken rocks that lie in the channel. The engineer may remove them, not the pilot.
You are more pilot than engineer. Consult his tastes. It is more important to your home, that
you should please him than anybody else.

8. PRACTICE ECONOMY.--Many families are cast out of peace into grumbling and discord by being
compelled to fight against poverty. When there are no great distresses to be endured or accounted
for, complaint and fault-finding are not so often evoked. Keep your husband free from the annoyance
of disappointed creditors, and he will be more apt to keep free from annoying you. To toil
hard for bread, to fight the wolf from the door, to resist impatient creditors, to struggle
against complaining pride at home, is too much to ask of one man. A crust that is your own
is a feast, while a feast that is purloined from unwilling creditors if a famine.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW TO BE A GOOD HUSBAND.

1. SHOW YOUR LOVE.--All life manifests itself. As certainly as a live tree will put forth leaves
in the spring, so certainly will a living love show itself. Many a noble man toils early and
late to earn bread and position for his wife. He hesitates at no weariness for her sake. He
justly thinks that such industry and providence give a better expression of his love than he
could by caressing her and letting the grocery bills go unpaid. He fills the cellar and pantry.
He drives and pushes his business. He never dreams that he is actually starving his wife to
death. He may soon have a woman left to superintend his home, but his wife is dying. She must
be kept alive by the same process that called her into being. Recall and repeat the little
attentions and delicate compliments that once made you so agreeable, and that fanned her love
into a consuming flame. It is not beneath the dignity of the skillful physician to study all
the little symptoms, and order all the little round of attentions that check the waste of strength
and brace the staggering constitution. It is good work for a husband to cherish his wife.

2. CONSULT WITH YOUR WIFE.--She is apt to be as right as you are, and frequently able to add
much to your stock of wisdom. In any event she appreciates your attentions.

3. STUDY TO KEEP HER YOUNG.--It can be done. It is not work, but worry, that wears. Keep a
brave, true heart between her and all harm.

4. HELP TO BEAR HER BURDENS.--Bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of love. Love
seeks opportunities to do for the loved object. She has the constant care of your children.
She is ordained by the Lord to stand guard over them. Not a disease can appear in the community
without her taking the alarm. Not a disease can come over the threshold without her instantly
springing into the mortal combat. If there is a deficiency anywhere it comes out of her pleasure.
Her burdens are everywhere. Look for them, that you may lighten them.

5. MAKE YOURSELF HELPFUL BY THOUGHTFULNESS.--Remember to bring into the house your best smile
and sunshine. It is good for you, and it cheers up the home. There is hardly a nook in the
house that has not been carefully hunted through to drive out everything that might annoy you.
The dinner which suits, or ought to suit you, has not come on the table of itself. It represents
much thoughtfulness and work. You can do no more manly thing than find some way of expressing,
in word or look, your appreciation of it.

6. EXPRESS YOUR WILL, NOT BY COMMANDS, BUT BY SUGGESTIONS.--It is God's order that you should
be the head of the family. You are clothed with authority. But this does not authorize you
to be stern and harsh, as an officer in the army. Your authority is the dignity of love. When
it is not clothed in love it ceases to have the substance of authority. A simple suggestion
that may embody a wish, an opinion or an argument, becomes one who reigns over such a kingdom
as yours.

7. SEEK TO REFINE YOUR NATURE.--It is no slander to say that many men have wives much more
refined than themselves. This is natural in the inequalities of life. Other qualities may compensate
for any defect here. But you need have no defect in refinement. Preserve the gentleness and
refinement of your wife as a rich legacy for your children, and in so doing you will lift yourself
to higher levels.

8. BE A GENTLEMAN AS WELL AS A HUSBAND.--The signs and bronze and callouses of toil are no
indications that you are not a gentleman. The soul of gentlemanliness is a kindly feeling toward
others, that prompts one to secure their comfort. That is why the thoughtful peasant lover
is always so gentlemanly, and in his love much above himself.

9. STAY AT HOME.--Habitual absence during the evenings is sure to bring sorrow. If your duty
or business calls you you have the promise that you will be kept in all your ways. But if you
go out to mingle with other society, and leave your wife at home alone, or with the children
and servants, know that there is no good in store for you. She has claims upon you that you
can not afford to allow to go to protest. Reverse the case. You sit down alone after having
waited all day for your wife's return, and think of her as reveling in gay society, and see
if you can keep out all the doubts as to what takes her away. If your home is not as attractive
as you want it, you are a principal partner. Set yourself about the work of making it attractive.

10. TAKE YOUR WIFE WITH YOU INTO SOCIETY.--Seclusion begets morbidness. She needs some of the
life that comes from contact with society. She must see how other people appear and act. It
often requires an exertion for her to go out of her home, but it is good for her and for you.
She will bring back more sunshine. It is wise to rest sometimes. When the Arab stops for his
dinner he unpacks his camel. Treat your wife with as much consideration.

       *       *       *       *       *

CAUSE OF FAMILY TROUBLES.

1. MUCH BETTER TO BE ALONE.--He who made man said it is not good for him to be alone; but it
is much better to be alone, than it is to be in some kinds of company. Many couples who felt
unhappy when they were apart, have been utterly miserable when together; and scores who have
been ready to go through fire and water to get married, have been willing to run the risk of
fire and brimstone to get divorced. It is by no means certain that because persons are wretched
before marriage they will be happy after it. The wretchedness of many homes, and the prevalence
of immorality and divorce is a sad commentary on the evils which result from unwise marriages.

2. UNAVOIDABLE EVILS.--There are plenty of unavoidable evils in this world, and it is mournful
to think of the multitudes who are preparing themselves for needless disappointments, and who
yet have no fear, and are unwilling to be instructed, cautioned or warned. To them the experience
of mature life is of little account compared with the wisdom of ardent and enthusiastic youth.

3. MATRIMONIAL INFELICITY.--One great cause of matrimonial infelicity is the hasty marriages
of persons who have no adequate knowledge of each other's characters. Two strangers become
acquainted, and are attracted to each other, and without taking half the trouble to investigate
or inquire that a prudent man would take before buying a saddle horse, they are married. In
a few weeks or months it is perhaps found that one of the parties was married already, or possibly
that the man is drunken or vicious, or the woman anything but what she should be. Then begins
the bitter part of the experience: shame, disgrace, scandal, separation, sin and divorce, all
come as the natural results of a rash and foolish marriage. A little time spent in honest,
candid, and careful preliminary inquiry and investigations would have saved the trouble.

4. THE CLIMAX.--It has been said that a man is never utterly ruined until he has married a
bad woman. So the climax of woman's miseries and sorrows may be said to come only when she
is bound with that bond which should be her chiefest blessing and her highest joy, but which
may prove her deepest sorrow and her bitterest curse.

5. THE FOLLY OF FOLLIES.--There are some lessons which people are very slow to learn, and yet
which are based upon the simple principles of common-sense. A young lady casts her eye upon
a young man. She says, "I mean to have that man." She plies her arts, engages his affections,
marries him, and secures for herself a life of sorrow and disappointment, ending perhaps in
a broken up home or an early grave. Any prudent, intelligent person of mature age, might have
warned or cautioned her; but she sought no advice, and accepted no admonition. A young man
may pursue a similar course with equally disastrous results.

6. HAP-HAZARD.--Many marriages are undoubtedly arranged by what may be termed the accident
of locality. Persons live near each other, become acquainted, and engage themselves to those
whom they never would have selected as their companions in life if they had wider opportunities
of acquaintance. Within the borders of their limited circle they make a selection which may
be wise or may be unwise. They have no means of judging, they allow no one else to judge for
them. The results are sometimes happy and sometimes unhappy in the extreme. It is well to act
cautiously in doing what can be done but once. It is not a pleasant experience for a person
to find out a mistake when it is too late to rectify it.

7. WE ALL CHANGE.--When two persons of opposite sex are often thrown together they are very
naturally attracted to each other, and are liable to imbibe the opinion that they are better
fitted for life-long companionship than any other two persons in the world. This may be the
case, or it may not be. There are a thousand chances against such a conclusion to one in favor
of it. But even if at the present moment these two persons were fitted to be associated, no
one can tell whether the case will be the same five or ten years hence. Men change; women change;
they are not the same they were ten years ago; they are not the same they will be ten years hence.

8. THE SAFE RULE.--Do not be in a hurry; take your time and consider well before you allow
your devotion to rule you. Study first your character, then study the character of her whom
you desire to marry. Love works mysteriously, and if it will bear careful and cool investigation,
it will no doubt thrive under adversity. When people marry they unite their destinies for the
better or the worse. Marriage is a contract for life and will never bear a hasty conclusion.
Never be in a hurry!

       *       *       *       *       *

JEALOUSY--ITS CAUSE AND CURE.

1. DEFINITION.--Jealousy is an accidental passion, for which the faculty indeed is unborn.
In its nobler form and in its nobler motives it arises from love, and in its lower form it
arises from the deepest and darkest Pit of Satan.

2. HOW DEVELOPED.--Jealousy arises either from weakness, which from a sense of its own want
of lovable qualities is not convinced of being sure of its cause, or from distrust, which thinks
the beloved person capable of infidelity. Sometimes all these motives may act together.

3. NOBLEST JEALOUSY.--The noblest jealousy, if the term noble is appropriate, is a sort of
ambition or pride of the loving person who feels it is an insult that another one should assume
it as possible to supplant his love, or it is the highest degree of devotion which sees a declaration
of its object in the foreign invasion, as it were, of his own altar. Jealousy is always a sign
that a little more wisdom might adorn the individual without harm.

4. THE LOWEST JEALOUSY.--The lowest species of jealousy is a sort of avarice of envy which,
without being capable of love, at least wishes to possess the object of its jealousy alone
by the one party assuming a sort of property right over the other. This jealousy, which might
be called the Satanic, is generally to be found with old withered "husbands," whom the devil
has prompted to marry young women and who forthwith dream night and day of cuck-old's horns.
These Argus-eyed keepers are no longer capable of any feeling that could be called love, they
are rather as a rule heartless house-tyrants, and are in constant dread that some one may admire
or appreciate his unfortunate slave.

5. WANT OF LORE.--The general conclusion will be that jealousy is more the result of wrong
conditions which cause uncongenial unions, and which through moral corruption artificially
create distrust than a necessary accompaniment of love.

6. RESULT OF POOR OPINION.--Jealousy is a passion with which those are most afflicted who are
the least worthy of love. An innocent maiden who enters marriage will not dream of getting
jealous; but all her innocence cannot secure her against the jealousy of her husband if he
has been a libertine. Those are wont to be the most jealous who have the consciousness that
they themselves are most deserving of jealousy. Most men in consequence of their present education
and corruption have so poor an opinion not only of the male, but even of the female sex, that
they believe every woman at every moment capable of what they themselves have looked for among
all and have found among the most unfortunate, the prostitutes. No libertine can believe in
the purity of woman; it is contrary to nature. A libertine therefore cannot believe in the
loyalty of a faithful wife.

7. WHEN JUSTIFIABLE.--There may be occasions where jealousy is justifiable. If a woman's confidence
has been shaken in her husband, or a husband's confidence has been shaken in his wife by certain
signs or conduct, which have no other meaning but that of infidelity, then there is just cause
for jealousy. There must, however, be certain proof as evidence of the wife's or husband's
immoral conduct. Imaginations or any foolish absurdities should have no consideration whatever,
and let everyone have confidence until his or her faith has been shaken by the revelation of
absolute facts.

8. CAUTION AND ADVICE.--No couple should allow their associations to develop into an engagement
and marriage if either one has any inclination to jealousy. It shows invariably a want of sufficient
confidence, and that want of confidence, instead of being diminished after marriage, is liable
to increase, until by the aid of the imagination and wrong interpretation the home is made
a hell and divorce a necessity. Let it be remembered, there can be no true love without perfect
and absolute confidence, jealousy is always the sign of weakness or madness. Avoid a jealous
disposition, for it is an open acknowledgment of a lack of faith.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE IMPROVEMENT OF OFFSPRING.

Why Bring Into the World Idiots, Fools, Criminals and Lunatics?

1. THE RIGHT WAY.--When mankind will properly love AND marry and then rightly generate, carry,
nurse and educate their children, will they in deed and in truth carry out the holy and happy
purpose of their Creator. See those miserable and depraved scape-goats of humanity, the demented
simpletons, the half-crazy, unbalanced multitudes which infest our earth, and fill our prisons
with criminals and our poor-houses with paupers. Oh! the boundless capabilities and perfections
of our God-like nature and, alas! its deformities! All is the result of the ignorance or indifference
of parents. As long as children are the accidents of lust instead of the premeditated objects
of love, so long will the offspring deteriorate and the world be cursed with deformities, monstrosities,
unhumanities and cranks.

2. EACH AFTER ITS KIND.--"Like parents like children." "In their own image beget" they them.
In what other can they? "How can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit?" How can animal propensities
in parents generate other than depraved children, or moral purity beget beings other than as
holy by nature as those at whose hands they received existence and constitution?

3. AS ARE THE PARENTS, physically, mentally and morally when they stamp their own image and
likeness upon progeny, so will be the constitution of that progeny.

4. "JUST AS THE TWIG IS BENT THE TREE'S INCLINED."--Yet the bramble cannot be bent to bear
delicious peaches, nor the sycamore to bear grain. Education is something, but parentage is
everything; because it "dyes in the wool" and thereby exerts an influence on character almost
infinitely more powerful than all other conditions put together.

5. HEALTHY AND BEAUTIFUL CHILDREN.--Thoughtless mortal! Before you allow the first goings forth
of love, learn what the parental conditions in you mean, and you will confer a great boon upon
the prospective bone of your bone, and flesh of your flesh! If it is in your power to be the
parent of beautiful, healthy, moral and talented children instead of diseased and depraved,
is it not your imperious duty then, to impart to them that physical power, moral perfection,
and intellectual capability, which shall ennoble their lives and make them good people and
good citizens?

6. PAUSE AND TREMBLE.--Prospective parents! Will you trifle with the dearest interests of your
children? Will you in matters thus momentous, head-long rush

  "Where angels dare not tread,"

Seeking only mere animal indulgence?--Well might cherubim shrink from assuming responsibilities
thus momentous Yet, how many parents tread this holy ground completely unprepared, and almost
as thoughtlessly and Ignorantly as brutes--entailing even loathsome diseases and sensual propensities
upon the fruit of their own bodies. Whereas they are bound, by obligations the most imperious
to bestow on them a good physical organization, along with a pure, moral, and strong intellectual
constitution, or else not to become parents! Especially since it is easier to generate human
angels than devils incarnate.

7. HEREDITARY DESCENT.--This great law of things, "Hereditary Descent," fully proves and illustrates
in any required number and variety or cases, showing that progeny inherits the constitutional
natures and characters, mental and physical, of parents, including pre-dispositions to consumption,
insanity, all sorts of disease, etc., as well as longevity, strength, stature, looks, disposition,
talents,--all that is constitutional. From what other source do or can they come? Indeed, who
can doubt a truth as palpable as that children inherit some, and if some, therefore all, the
physical and mental nature and constitutor of parents, thus becoming almost their fac-similes?

8. ILLUSTRATIONS.--A whaleman was severely hurt by a harpooned and desperate whale turning
upon the small boat, and, by his monstrous jaws, smashing it to pieces, one of which, striking
him in his right side, crippled him for life. When sufficiently recovered, he married, according
to previous engagement, and his daughter, born in due time, and closely resembling him in looks,
constitution and character, has a weak and sore place corresponding in location with that of
the injury of her father. Tubercles have been found in the lungs of infants at birth, born
of consumptive parents,--a proof, clear and demonstrative, that children inherit the several
states of parental physiology existing at the time they received their physiological constitution.
The same is true of the transmission of those diseases consequent on the violation of the law
of chastity, and the same conclusion established thereby.

9. PARENT'S PARTICIPATION.--Each parent furnishing at indispensable portion of the materials
of life, and somehow or other, contributes parentally to the formation of the constitutional
character of their joint product, appears far more reasonable, than to ascribe, as many do,
the whole to either some to paternity, others to maternity. Still this decision go which way
it may, does not affect the great fact that children inherit both the physiology and the mentality
existing in parents at the time they received being and constitution.

10. ILLEGITIMATES OR BASTARDS also furnish strong proof of the correctness of this our leading
doctrine. They are generally lively, sprightly, witty, frolicksome, knowing, quiet of perception,
apt to learn, full of passion, quick-tempered, impulsive throughout, hasty, indiscreet, given
to excesses, yet abound in good feeling, and are well calculated to enjoy life, though in general
sadly deficient in some essential moral elements.

11. CHARACTER OF ILLEGITIMATES.--Wherein, then, consists this difference? First, in "novelty
lending an enchantment" rarely experienced in sated wedlock, as well as in, power of passion
sufficient to break through all restraint, external and internal; and hence their high wrought
organization. They are usually wary and on the alert, and their parents drank "stolen waters."
They are commonly wanting in moral balance, or else delinquent in some important moral aspect;
nor would they have ever been born unless this had been the case, for the time being at least
with their parents. Behold in these, and many other respects easily cited, how striking the
coincidence between their characters on the one hand, and, on the other, those parental conditions
necessarily attendant on their origin.

12. CHILDREN'S CONDITION depends upon parents' condition at the time of the sexual embrace.
Let parents recall, as nearly as may be their circumstances and states of body and mind at
this period, and place them by the side of the physical and mental constitutions of their children,
and then say whether this law is not a great practical truth, and if so, its importance is
as the happiness and misery it is capable of affecting! The application of this mighty engine
of good or evil to mankind, to the promotion of human advancement, is the great question which
should profoundly interest all parents.

13. THE VITAL PERIOD.--The physical condition of parents at the vital period of transmission
of life should be a perfect condition of health in both body and mind, and a vigorous condition
of all the animal organs and functions.

14. MUSCULAR PREPARATION.--Especially should parents cultivate their muscular system preparatory
to the perfection of this function, and of their children; because, to impart strength and
stamina to offspring they must of necessity both possess a good muscular organization, and
also bring it into vigorous requisition at this period. For this reason, if for no other, let
those of sedentary habits cultivate muscular energy preparatory to this time of need.

15. THE SEED.--So exceedingly delicate are the seeds of life, that, unless planted in a place
of perfect security, they must all be destroyed and our race itself extinguished. And what
place is as secure as that chosen, where they can be reached only with the utmost difficulty,
and than only as the peril of even life itself? Imperfect seed sown in poor ground means a
sickly harvest.

16. HEALTHY PEOPLE--MOST CHILDREN.--The most healthy classes have the most numerous families;
but that, as luxury enervates society, it diminishes the population, by enfeebling parents,
nature preferring none rather than those too weakly to live and be happy, and thereby rendering
that union unfruitful which is too feeble to produce offspring sufficiently strong to enjoy
life. Debility and disease often cause barrenness. Nature seems to rebel against sickly offspring.

17. WHY CHILDREN DIE.--Inquire whether one or both the parents of those numerous children that
die around us, have not weak lungs, or a debilitated stomach, or a diseased liver, or feeble
muscles, or else use them but little, or disordered nerves, or some other debility or form
of disease. The prevalence of summer complaints, colic, cholera infantum, and other affections
of these vital organs of children is truly alarming, sweeping them into their graves by the
million. Shall other animals rear nearly all their young, and shall man, constitutionally by
far the strongest of them all, lose half or more of his? is this the order of nature? No, but
their death-worm is born in and with them, and by parental agency.

18. GRAVE-YARD STATISTICS.--Take grave-yard statistics in August, and then say, whether most
of the deaths of children are not caused by indigestion, or feebleness of the bowels, liver,
etc., or complaints growing out of them? Rather, take family statistics from broken-hearted
parents! And yet, in general, those very parents who thus suffer more than words can tell,
were the first and main transgressors, because they entailed those dyspeptic, heart, and other
kindred affections so common among American parents upon their own children, and thereby almost
as bad as killed them by inches; thus depriving them of the joys of life, and themselves of
their greatest earthly treasure!

19. ALL CHILDREN MAY DIE.--Children may indeed die whose parents are healthy, but they almost
must whose parents are essentially ailing in one or more of their vital organs; because, since
they inherit this organ debilitated or diseased, any additional cause of sickness attacks this
part first, and when it gives out, all go by the board together.

20. PARENTS MUST LEARN AND OBEY.--How infinitely more virtuous and happy would your children
be if you should be healthy in body, and happy in mind, so as to beget in them a constitutionally
healthy and vigorous physiology, along with a serene and happy frame of mind! Words are utterly
powerless in answer, and so is everything but a lifetime of consequent happiness or misery!
Learn and obey, then, the laws of life and health, that you may both reap the rich reward yourself,
and also shower down upon your children after you, blessings many and most exalted. Avoid excesses
of all kinds, be temperate, take good care of the body and avoid exposures and disease, and
your children will be models of health and beauty.

21. THE RIGHT CONDITION.--The great practical inference is, that those parents who desire intellectual
and moral children, must love each other; because, this love, besides perpetually calling forth
and cultivating their higher faculties, awakens them to the highest pitch of exalted action
in that climax, concentration, and consummation of love which propagates their existing qualities,
the mental endowment of offspring being proportionate to the purity and intensity of parental love.

22. THE EFFECTS.--The children of affectionate parents receive existence and constitution when
love has rendered the mentality of their parents both more elevated and more active than it
is by nature, of course the children of loving parents are both more intellectual and moral
by nature than their parents. Now, if these children and their companions also love one another,
this same law which renders the second generation better than the first, will of course render
the third still better than the second, and thus of all succeeding generations.

23. ANIMAL IMPULSE.--You may preach and pray till doomsday--may send out missionaries, may
circulate tracts and Bibles, and multiply revivals and all the means of grace, with little
avail; because, as long as mankind go on, as now, to propagate by animal impulse, so long must
their offspring be animal, sensual, devilish! But only induce parents cordially to love each
other, and you thereby render their children constitutionally talented and virtuous. Oh! parents,
by as much as you prefer the luxuries of concord to the torments of discord, and children that
are sweet dispositioned and highly intellectual to those that are rough wrathful, and depraved,
be entreated to "love one another."

       *       *       *       *       *

TOO MANY CHILDREN.

1. LESSENING PAUPERISM.--Many of the agencies for lessening pauperism are afraid of tracing
back its growth to the frequency of births under wretched conditions. One begins to question
whether after all sweet charity or dignified philanthropy has not acted with an unwise reticence.
Among the problems which defy practical handling this is the most complicated. The pauperism
which arises from marriage is the result of the worst elements of character legalized. In America,
where the boundaries of wedlock are practically boundless, it is not desirable, even were it
possible, that the state should regulate marriage much further than it now does; therefore
must the sociologist turn for aid to society in his struggle with pauperism.

2. RIGHT PHYSICAL AND SPIRITUAL CONDITIONS OF BIRTH.--Society should insist upon the right
spiritual and physical conditions for birth. It should be considered more than "a pity" when
another child is born into a home too poor to receive it. The underlying selfishness of such
an event should be recognized, for it brings motherhood under wrong conditions of health and
money. Instead of each birth being the result of mature consideration and hallowed loves children
are too often born as animals are born. To be sure the child has a father whom he can call
by name. Better that there had never been a child.

3. WRONG RESULTS.--No one hesitates to declare that if is want of self-respect and morality
which brings wrong results outside of marriage, but it is also the want of them which begets
evil inside the marriage relation. Though there is nothing more difficult than to find the
equilibrium between self-respect and self-sacrifice, yet on success in finding it depends individual
and national preservation. The fact of being wife and mother or husband and father should imply
dignity and joyousness, no matter how humble the home.

4. DIFFERENCE OF OPINION AMONGST PHYSICIANS.--In regard to teaching, the difficulties are great.
As soon as one advances beyond the simplest subjects of hygiene, one is met with the difference
of opinions among physicians. When each one has a different way of making a mustard plaster,
no wonder that each has his own notions about everything else. One doctor recommends frequent
births, another advises against them.

5. DIFFERENT NATURES.--If physiological facts are taught to a large class, there are sure to
be some in it whose impressionable natures are excited by too much plain speaking, while there
are others who need the most open teaching in order to gain any benefit. Talks to a few persons
generally are wiser than popular lectures. Especially are talks needed by mothers and unmothered
girls who come from everywhere to the city.

6. BOYS AND YOUNG MEN.--It is not women alone who require the shelter of organizations and
instruction, but boys and young men. There is no double standard of morality, though the methods
of advocating it depend upon the sex which is to be instructed. Men are more concerned with
the practical basis of morality than with its sentiment, and with the pecuniary aspects of
domestic life than with its physical and mental suffering. We all may need medicine for moral
ills, yet the very intangibleness of purity makes us slow to formulate rules for its growth.
Under the guidance of the wise in spirit and knowledge, much can be done to create a higher
standard of marriage and to proportion the number of births according to the health and income
of parents.

7. FOR THE SAKE OF THE STATE.--If the home exists primarily for the sake of the individual,
it exists secondarily for the sake of the state. Therefore, any home into which are continually
born the inefficient children of inefficient parents, not only is a discomfort in itself, but
it also furnishes members for the armies of the unemployed, which are tinkering and hindering
legislation and demanding by the brute force of numbers that the state shall support them.

8. OPINIONS FROM HIGH AUTHORITIES.--In the statements and arguments made in the above we have
not relied upon our own opinions and convictions, but have consulted the best authorities,
and we hereby quote some of the highest authorities upon this subject.

9. REV. LEONARD DAWSON.--"How rapidly conjugal prudence might lift a nation out of pauperism
was seen in France.--Let them therefore hold the maxim that the production of offspring with
forethought and providence is rational nature. It was immoral to bring children into the world
whom they could not reasonably hope to feed, clothe and educate."

10. MRS. FAWCETT.--"Nothing will permanently offset pauperism while the present reckless increase
of population continues."

11.

12. REV. H.R. HAWEIS.--"Until it is thought a disgrace in every rank of society, from top to
bottom of social scale, to bring into the world more children than you are able to provide
for, the poor man's home, at least, must often be a purgatory--his children dinnerless, his
wife a beggar--himself too often drunk--here, then, are the real remedies: first, control the
family growth according to the family means of support."

13. MONTAGUE COOKSON.--"The limitation of the number of the family--is as much the duty of
married persons as the observance of chastity is the duty of those that are unmarried."

14. JOHN STUART MILL.--"Every one has aright to live. We will suppose this granted. But no
one has a right to bring children into life to be supported by other people. Whoever means
to stand upon the first of these rights must renounce all pretension to the last. Little improvement
can be expected in morality until the production of a large family is regarded in the same
light as drunkenness or any other physical excess."

15. DR. T.D. NICHOLLS.--"In the present social state, men and women should refrain from having
children unless they see a reasonable prospect of giving them suitable nurture and education."

16. REV. M.J. SAVAGE.--"Some means ought to be provided for checking the birth of sickly children."

17. DR. STOCKHAM.--"Thoughtful minds must acknowledge the great wrong done when children are
begotten under adverse conditions. Women must learn the laws of life so as to protect themselves,
and not be the means of bringing sin-cursed, diseased children into the world. The remedy is
in the prevention of pregnancy, not in producing abortion."

       *       *       *       *       *

SMALL FAMILIES AND THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE RACE.

1. MARRIED PEOPLE MUST DECIDE FOR THEMSELVES.--It is the fashion of those who marry nowadays
to have few children, often none. Of course this is a matter which married people must decide
for themselves. As is stated in an earlier chapter, sometimes this policy is the wisest that
can be pursued.

2. Diseased people who are likely to beget only a sickly offspring, may follow this course,
and so may thieves, rascals, vagabonds, insane and drunken persons, and all those who are likely
to bring into the world beings that ought not to be here. But why so many well-to-do folks
should pursue a policy adapted only to paupers and criminals, is not easy to explain. Why marry
at all if not to found a family that shall live to bless and make glad the earth after father
and mother are gone? It is not wise to rear too many children, nor is it wise to have too few.
Properly brought up, they will make home a delight, and parents happy.

3. POPULATION LIMITED.--Galton, in his great work on hereditary genius, observes that "the
time may hereafter arrive in far distant years, when the population of this earth shall be
kept as strictly within bounds of number and suitability of race, as the sheep of a well-ordered
moor, or the plants in an orchard-house; in the meantime let us do what we can to encourage
the multiplication of the races best fitted to invent and conform to a high and generous civilization."

4. SHALL SICKLY PEOPLE RAISE CHILDREN?--The question whether sickly people should marry and
propagate their kind, is briefly alluded to in an early chapter of this work. Where father
and mother are both consumptive the chances are that the children will inherit physical weakness,
which will result in the same disease, unless great pains are taken to give them a good physical
education, and even then the probabilities are that they will find life a burden hardly worth
living.

5. NO REAL BLESSING.--Where one parent is consumptive and the other vigorous, the chances are
just half as great. If there is a scrofulous or consumptive taint in the blood, beware! Sickly
children are no comfort to their parents, no real blessing. If such people marry, they had
better, in most cases, avoid parentage.

6.

7. PREVENTIVES.--Remember that the thousands of preventives which are advertised in papers,
private circulars, etc., are not only inefficient, unreliable and worthless, but positively
dangerous, and the annual mortality of females in this country from this cause alone is truly
horrifying. Study nature, and nature's laws alone will guide you safely in the path of health
and happiness.

8. NATURE'S REMEDY.--Nature in her wise economy has prepared for overproduction, for during
the period of pregnancy and nursing, and also most of the last half of each menstrual month,
woman is naturally sterile; but this condition may become irregular and uncertain on account
of stimulating drinks or immoral excesses.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GENERATIVE ORGANS.

1. The reproductive organs in man are the penis and testicles and their appendages.

2. The penis deposits the seminal life germ of the male. It is designed to fulfill the seed
planting mission of human life.

3. In the accompanying illustration all the parts are named.

4. URETHRA.--The urethra performs the important mission of emptying the bladder, and is rendered
very much larger by the passion, and the semen is propelled along through it by little layers
of muscles on each side meeting above and below. It is this canal that is inflamed by the disease
known as gonorrhoea.

5. PROSTATE GLAND.--The prostate gland is located just before the bladder. It swells in men
who have previously overtaxed it, thus preventing all sexual intercourse, and becomes very
troublesome to void urine. This is a very common trouble in old age.

6. THE PENAL GLAND.--The penal gland, located at the end of the penis, becomes unduly enlarged
by excessive action and has the consistency of India rubber. It is always enlarged by erection.
It is this gland at the end that draws the semen forward. It is one of the most essential and
wonderful constructed glands of the human body.

7. FEMALE MAGNETISM.--When the male organ comes in contact with female magnetism, the natural
and proper excitement takes place. When excited without this female magnetism it becomes one
of the most serious injuries to the human body. The male organ was made for a high and holy
purpose, and woe be to him who pollutes his manhood by practicing the secret vice. He pays
the penalty in after years either by the entire loss of sexual power, or by the afflictions
of various urinary diseases.

8. NATURE PAYS all her debts, and when there is an abuse of organ, penalties must follow. If
the hand is thrust into the fire it will be burnt.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FEMALE SEXUAL ORGANS.

1. The generative or reproductive organs of the human female are usually divided into the internal
and external. Those regarded as internal are concealed from view and protected within the body.
Those that can be readily perceived are termed external. The entrance of the vagina may be
stated as the line of demarcation of the two divisions.

2. HYMEN OR VAGINAL VALVE.--This is a thin membrane of half moon shape stretched across the
opening of the vagina. It usually contains before marriage one or more small openings for the
passage of the menses. This membrane has been known to cause much distress in many females
at the first menstrual flow. The trouble resulting from the openings in the hymen not being
large enough to let the flow through and consequently blocking up the vaginal canal, and filling
the entire internal sexual organs with blood; causing paroxysms and hysterics and other alarming
symptoms. In such cases the hymen must be ruptured that a proper discharge may take place at once.

3. UNYIELDING HYMEN.--The hymen is usually ruptured by the first sexual intercourse, but sometimes
it is so unyielding as to require the aid of a knife before coition can take place.

4. THE PRESENCE OF THE HYMEN was formerly considered a test of virginity, but this theory is
no longer held by competent authorities, as disease or accidents or other circumstances may
cause its rupture.

5. THE OVARIES.--The ovaries are little glands for the purpose of forming the female ova or
egg. They are not fully developed until the period of puberty, and usually are about the size
of a large chestnut. The are located in the broad ligaments between the uterus and the Fallopian
tubes. During pregnancy the ovaries change position; they are brought farther into the abdominal
cavity as the uterus expands.

6. OFFICE OF THE OVARY.--The ovary is to the female what the testicle is to the male. It is
the germ vitalizing organ and the most essential part of the generative apparatus. The ovary
is not only an organ for the formation of the ova, but is also designed for their separation
when they reach maturity.

7. FALLOPION TUBES.--These are the ducts that lead from the ovaries to the uterus. They are
entirely detached from the glands or ovaries, and are developed on both sides of the body.

8. OFFICE OF THE FALLOPIAN TUBES.--The Fallopian tubes have a double office: receiving the
ova from the ovaries and conducting it into the uterus, as well as receiving the spermatic
fluid of the male and conveying it from the uterus in the direction of the ovaries, the tubes
being the seat of impregnation.

9. STERILITY IN FEMALES.--Sterility in the female is sometimes caused by a morbid adhesion
of the tube to a portion of the ovary. By what power the mouth of the tube is directed toward
a particular portion of an ovary, from which the ovum is about to be discharged, remains entirely
unknown, as does also the precise nature of the cause which effects this movement.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MYSTERIES OF THE FORMATION OF LIFE.

1. SCIENTIFIC THEORIES.--Darwin, Huxley, Haeckel, Tyndall, Meyer, and other renowned scientists,
have tried to find the missing link between man and animal; they have also exhausted their
genius in trying to fathom the mysteries of the beginning of life, or find where the animal
and mineral kingdoms unite to form life; but they have added to the vast accumulation of theories
only, and the world is but little wiser on this mysterious subject.

2. PHYSIOLOGY.--Physiology has demonstrated what physiological changes take place in the germination
and formation of life, and how nature expresses the intentions of reproduction by giving animals
distinctive organs with certain secretions for this purpose, etc. All the different stages
of development can be easily determined, but how and why life takes place under such special
condition and under no other, is an unsolved mystery.

3. They are egg-shaped, about an inch in diameter, and furnish the germs or ovules. These germs
or ovules are very small, measuring about 1/120 of an inch in diameter.

4.

5. WHAT SCIENCE KNOWS.--After the sexual embrace we know that the sperm is lifted within the
genital passages or portion of the vagina and mouth of the uterus. The time between the deposit
of the semen and fecundation varies according to circumstances. If the sperm-cell travels to
the ovarium it generally takes from three to five days to make the journey. As Dr. Pierce says:
The transportation is aided by the ciliary processes (little hairs) of the mucous surface of
the vaginal and uterine walls, as well as by its own vibratile movements. The action of the
cilia, under the stimulus of the sperm, seems to be from without, inward. Even if a minute
particle of sperm, less than a drop, be left upon the margin of the external genitals of the
female, it is sufficient in amount to impregnate, and can be carried, by help of these cilia,
to the ovaries.

6. CONCEPTION.--After intercourse at the proper time the liability to conception is very great.
If the organs are in a healthy condition, conception must necessarily follow, and no amount
of prudence and the most rigid precautions often fail to prevent pregnancy.

7. ONLY ONE ABSOLUTELY SAFE METHOD.--There is only one absolutely safe method to prevent conception,
entirely free from danger and injury to health, and one that is in the reach of all; that is
to refrain from union altogether.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONCEPTION--ITS LIMITATIONS.

1. A COMMON QUESTION.--The question is often asked, "Can Conception be prevented at all times?"
Let us say right here that even if such an interference with nature's laws were possible it
is inadmissible, and never to be justified except in cases of deformity or disease.

2. FALSE CLAIMS OF IMPOSTERS.--During the past few years a great deal has been written on the
subject, claiming that new remedies had been discovered for the prevention of conception, etc.,
but these are all money making devices to deceive the public, and enrich the pockets of miserable
and unprincipled imposters.

3. THE TRUTH OF THE MATTER.--Dr. Pancoast, an eminent authority, says: "The truth is, there
is no medicine taken internally capable of preventing conception, and the person who asserts
to the contrary, not only speaks falsely, but is both a knave and a fool."

4. FOOLISH DREAD OF CHILDREN.--What is more deplorable and pitiable than an old couple childless?
Young people dislike the care and confinement of children and prefer society and social entertainments
and thereby do great injustice and injury to their health. Having children under proper circumstances
never ruins the health and happiness of any woman. In fact, womanhood is incomplete without
them. She may have a dozen or more, and still have better health than before marriage. It is
having them too close together, and when she is not in a fit state, that her health gives way.

5.

6. A WRONG TO THE MOTHER AND CHILD.--Sometimes the mother is diseased; the outlet from the
womb, as a result of laceration by a previous child-birth, is frequently enlarged, thus allowing
conception to take place very readily, and hence she has children in rapid succession. Besides
the wrong to the mother in having children in such rapid succession, it is a great injustice
to the babe in the womb and the one at the breast that they should follow each other so quickly
that one is conceived while the other is nursing. One takes the vitality of the other; neither
has sufficient nourishment, and both are started in life stunted and incomplete.

7. FEEBLE AND DISEASED PARENTS.--If the parties of a marriage are both feeble and so adapted
to each other that their children are deformed, insane or idiots, then to beget offspring would
be a flagrant wrong; if the mother's health is in such a condition as to forbid the right of
laying the burden of motherhood upon her, then medical aid may safely come to her relief.

8. "THE DESIRABILITY AND PRACTICABILITY of limiting offspring," says Dr. Stockham, are the
subject of frequent inquiry. Fewer and better children are desired by right-minded parents.
Many men and women, wise in other things of the world, permit generation as a chance result
of copulation, without thought of physical or mental conditions to be transmitted to the child.
Coition, the one important act of all others, carrying with it the most vital results, is usually
committed for selfish gratification. Many a drunkard owes his lifelong appetite for alcohol
to the fact that the inception of his life could be traced to a night of dissipation on the
part of his father. Physical degeneracy and mental derangements are too often caused by the
parents producing offspring while laboring under great mental strain or bodily fatigue. Drunkenness
and licentiousness are frequently the heritage of posterity. Future generations demand that
such results be averted by better prenatal influences. The world is groaning under the curse
of chance parenthood. It is due to posterity that procreation be brought under the control
of reason and conscience.

9. "IT HAS BEEN FEARED THAT A KNOWLEDGE of means to control offspring would, if generally diffused,
be abused by women; that they would to so great an extent escape motherhood as to bring about
social disaster. This fear is not well founded. The maternal instinct is inherent and sovereign
in woman. Even the prenatal influences of a murderous intent on the part of parents scarcely
ever eradicate it. With this natural desire for children, we believe few woman would abuse
the knowledge of privilege of controlling offspring. Although women shrink from forced maternity,
and from the bearing of children under the great burden of suffering, as well as other adverse
conditions, it is rare to find a woman who is not greatly disappointed if she does not, some
time in her life, wear the crown of motherhood.

"An eminent lady teacher, in talking to her pupils once said, 'The greatest calamity that can
befall a woman is never to have a child. The next greatest calamity is to have one only.' From
my professional experience I am happy to testify that more women seek to overcome causes of
sterility than to obtain knowledge of limiting the size of the family or means to destroy the
embryo. Also, if consultation for the latter is sought, it is usually at the instigation of
the husband. Believing in the rights of unborn children, and in the maternal instinct, I am
consequently convinced that no knowledge should be withheld that will secure proper conditions
for the best parenthood."

10. THE CASE OF THE JUKE FAMILY.--We submit the following case of the Juke family, mostly of
New York state, as related by Dr. R.L. Dugdale, when a member of the prison Association, and
let the reader judge for himself:

"It was traced out by painstaking research that from one woman called Margaret, who, like Topsy,
merely 'growed' without pedigree as a pauper in a village of the upper Hudson, about eighty-five
years ago, there descended 673 children, grandchildren and great grandchildren, of whom 200
were criminals of the dangerous class, 280 adult paupers, and 50 prostitutes, while 300 children
of her lineage died prematurely. The last fact proves to what extent in this family nature
was kind to the rest of humanity in saving it from a still larger aggregation or undesirable
and costly members, for it is estimated that the expense to the State of the descendants of
Maggie was over a million dollars, and the State itself did something also towards preventing
a greater expense by the restrain exercised upon the criminals, paupers, and idiots of the
family during a considerable portion of their lives."

11.

12. NATURE'S METHOD.--To such we reply that nature herself has provided to some extent, against
overproduction. However, the nursing, if continued too long, weakens both the mother and the child.

13. ANOTHER PROVISION OF NATURE.--For a certain period between her monthly illness, every woman
is sterile. Conception may be avoided by refraining from coition except for this particular
number of days, and there will be no evasion of natural intercourse, no resort to disgusting
practices, and nothing degrading.

       *       *       *       *       *

PRENATAL INFLUENCES.

1. DEFINITION.--By prenatal influences we mean those temporary operations of the mind or physical
conditions of the parents previous to birth, which stamp their impress upon the new life.

2. THREE PERIODS.--We may consider this subject as one which naturally divides itself into
three periods: the preparation which precedes conception, the mental, moral and physical conditions
at the time of conjunction, and the environment and condition of the mother during the period
of gestation.

3. PROMINENT AUTHORITIES.--A.E. Newton says: "Numerous facts indicate that offspring may be
affected and their tendencies shaped by a great variety of influences, among which moods and
influences more or less transient may be included."

Dr. Stall says: "Prenatal influences are both subtle and potent, and no amount of wealth or
learning or influence can secure exemption from them."

Dr. John Cowan says upon this subject: "The fundamental principles of genius in reproduction
are that, through the rightly directed wills of the father and mother, preceding and during
antenatal life, the child's form or body, character of mind and purity of soul are formed and
established. That in its plastic state, during antenatal life, like clay in the hands of the
potter, it can be molded into absolutely any form of body and soul the parents may knowingly
desire."

4. LIKE PARENTS, LIKE CHILDREN.--It is folly to expect strong and vigorous children from weak
and sickly parents, or virtuous offspring from impure ancestry.

Dr. James Foster Scott tells us that purity is, in fact, the crown of all real manliness; and
the vigorous and robust, who by repression of evil have preserved their sexual potency, make
the best husbands and fathers, and they are the direct benefactors for the race by begetting
progeny who are not predisposed to sexual vitiation and bodily and mental degeneracy.

5. BLOOD WILL TELL.--Thus we see that prenatal influences greatly modify, if they do not wholly
control, inherited tendencies. Is it common sense to suppose that a child, begotten when the
parents are exhausted from mental or physical overwork, can be as perfect as when the parents
are overflowing with the buoyancy of life and health? The practical farmer would not allow
a domestic animal to come into his flock or herd under imperfect physical conditions. He understands
that while "blood will tell," the temporary conditions of the animals will also tell in the
perfections or imperfections of the offspring.

6. HEALTH A LEGACY.--It is no small legacy to be endowed with perfect health. In begetting
children comparatively few people seem to think that any care of concern is necessary to insure
against ill-health or poverty of mind. How strange our carelessness and unconcern when these
are the groundwork of all comfort and success! How few faces and forms we see which give sign
of perfect health. It is just as reasonable to suppose that men and women can squander their
fortune and still have it left to bequeath to their children, as that parents can violate organic
laws and still retain their own strength and activity.

7. RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS.--Selden H. Tascott says: "Ungoverned passions in the parents
may unloose the furies of unrestrained madness in the minds of their children. Even untempered
religious enthusiasm may beget a fanaticism that can not be restrained within the limits of
reason."

In view of the preceding statements, what a responsibility rests upon the parents! No step
in the process of parentage is unimportant. From the lovers first thought of marriage to the
birth of the child, every step of the way should be paved with the snow-white blossoms of pure
thought. Kindly words and deeds should bind the prospective parents more closely together.
Not mine and thine, but ours, should be the bond of sympathy. Each should be chaste in thought
and word and deed as was Sir Galahad, who went in search of the Holy Grail, saying:

  "My strength is as the strength of ten,
  Because my heart is pure."

       *       *       *       *       *

VAGINAL CLEANLINESS.

1. The above syringes are highly recommended by physicians as vaginal cleansers. They will
be found a great relief in health or sickness, and in many cases cure barrenness or other diseases
of the womb.

2. CLEANLINESS.--Cleanliness is next to godliness. Without cleanliness the human body is more
or less defiled and repulsive. A hint to the wise is sufficient. The vagina should be cleansed
with the same faithfulness as any other portion of the body.

3. TEMPERATURE OF THE WATER.--Those not accustomed to use vaginal injections would do well
to use water milk-warm at the commencement; after this the temperature may be varied according
to circumstances. In case of local inflammation use hot water. The indiscriminate use of cold
water injections will be found rather injurious than beneficial, and a woman in feeble health
will always find warm water invigorating and preferable.

4. LEUCORRHOEA.--In case of persistent leucorrhoea use the temperature of water from seventy-two
to eighty-five degrees Fahrenheit.

5. THE CLEANSER will greatly stimulate the health and spirits of any woman who uses it. Pure
water injections have a stimulating effect, and it seems to invigorate the entire body.

6. SALT AND WATER INJECTIONS.--This will cure mild cases of leucorrhoea. Add a teaspoonful
of salt to a pint and a half of water at the proper temperature. Injections may be repeated
daily if deemed necessary.

7. SOAP AND WATER.--Soap and water is a very simple domestic remedy, and will many times afford
relief in many diseases of the womb. It seems it thoroughly cleanses the parts. A little borax
or vinegar may be used the same as salt water injections. (See No. 6.)

8. HOLES IN THE TUBES.--Most of the holes in the tubes of syringes are too small. See that
they are sufficiently large to produce thorough cleansing.

9. INJECTIONS DURING THE MONTHLY FLOW.--Of course it is not proper to arrest the flow, and
the injections will stimulate a healthy action of the organs. The injections may be used daily
throughout the monthly flow with much comfort and benefit. If the flow is scanty and painful
the injections may be as warm as they can be comfortably borne. If the flowing is immoderate,
then cool water may be used. A woman will soon learn her own condition and can act accordingly.

10. BLOOM AND GRACE OF YOUTH.--The regular bathing of the body will greatly improve woman's
beauty. Remember that a perfect complexion depends upon the healthy action of all the organs.
Vaginal injections are just as important as the bath. A beautiful woman must not only be cleanly,
but robust and healthy. There can be no perfect beauty without good health.

       *       *       *       *       *

IMPOTENCE AND STERILITY.

1. Actual impotence during the period of manhood is a very rare complaint, and nature very
unwillingly, and only after the absolute neglect of sanitary laws, gives up the power of reproduction.

2. Not only sensual women, but all without exception, feel deeply hurt, and are repelled by
the husband whom they may previously have loved dearly, when, after entering the married state,
they find that he is impotent. The more inexperienced and innocent they were at the time of
marriage, the longer it often is before they find that something is lacking in the husband;
but, once knowing this, the wife infallibly has a feeling of contempt and aversion for him
though there are many happy families where this defect exists. It is often very uncertain who
is the weak one, and no cause for separation should be sought.

3. Unhappy marriages, barrenness, divorces, and perchance an occasional suicide, may be prevented
by the experienced physician, who can generally give correct information, comfort, and consolation,
when consulted on these delicate matters.

4. When a single man fears that he is unable to fulfill the duties of marriage, he should not
marry until his fear is dispelled. The suspicion of such a fear strongly tends to bring about
the very weakness which he dreads. Go to a good physician (not to one of those quacks whose
advertisements you see in the papers; they are invariably unreliable), and state the case fully
and freely.

5. Diseases, malformation, etc., may cause impotence. In case of malformation there is usually
no remedy, but in case of disease it is usually within the reach of a skillful physician.

6. Self-abuse and spermatorrhoea produce usually only temporary impotence and can generally
be relieved by carrying out the instructions given elsewhere in this book.

7. Excessive indulgences often enfeeble the powers and often result in impotence. Dissipated
single men, professional libertines, and married men who are immoderate, often pay the penalty
of their violations of the laws of nature, by losing their vital power. In such cases of excess
there may be some temporary relief, but as age advances the effects of such indiscretion will
become more and more manifest.

8. The condition of sterility in man may arise either from a condition of the secretion which
deprives it of its fecundating powers or it may spring from a malformation which prevents it
reaching the point where fecundation takes place. The former condition is most common in old
age, and is a sequence of venereal disease, or from a change in the structure or functions
of the glands. The latter has its origin in a stricture, or in an injury, or in that condition
technically known as hypospadias, or in debility.

9. It can be safely said that neither self-indulgence nor spermatorrhoea often leads to permanent
sterility.

10. It is sometimes, however, possible, even where there is sterility in the male, providing
the secretion is not entirely devoid of life properties on part of the husband, to have children,
but these are exceptions.

11. No man need hesitate about matrimony on account of sterility, unless that condition arises
from a permanent and absolute degeneration of his functions.

12. Impotence from mental and moral causes often takes place. Persons of highly nervous organization
may suffer incapacity in their sexual organs. The remedy for these difficulties is rest and
change of occupation.

13. REMEDIES IN CASE OF IMPOTENCE ON ACCOUNT OF FORMER PRIVATE DISEASES, OR MASTURBATION, OR
OTHER CAUSES.--First build up the body by taking some good stimulating tonics. The general
health is the most essential feature to be considered, in order to secure restoration of the
sexual powers. Constipation must be carefully avoided. If the kidneys do not work in good order,
some remedy for their restoration must be taken. Take plenty of out-door excercise avoid horseback
riding or heavy exhaustive work.

14. FOOD AND DRINKS WHICH WEAKEN DESIRE.--All kinds of food which cause dyspepsia or bring
on constipation, diarrhea, or irritate the bowels, alcoholic beverages, or any indigestible
compound, has the tendency to weaken the sexual power. Drunkards and tipplers suffer early
loss of vitality. Beer drinking has a tendency to irritate the stomach and to that extent affects
the private organs.

15. COFFEE.--Coffee drank excessively causes a debilitating effect upon the sexual organs.
The moderate use of coffee can be recommended, yet an excessive habit of drinking very strong
coffee will sometimes wholly destroy vitality.

16. TOBACCO.--It is a hygienic and physiological fact that tobacco produces sexual debility
and those who suffer any weakness on that source should carefully avoid the weed in all its forms.

17. DRUGS WHICH STIMULATE DESIRE.--There are certain medicines which act locally on the membranes
and organs of the male, and the papers are full of advertisements of "Lost Manhood Restored",
etc., but in every case they are worthless or dangerous drugs and certain to lead to some painful
malady or death. All these patent medicines should be carefully avoided. People who are troubled
with any of these ailments should not attempt to doctor themselves by taking drugs, but a competent
physician should be consulted. Eating rye, corn, or graham bread, oatmeal, cracked wheat, plenty
of fruit, etc. is a splendid medicine. If that is not sufficient, then a physician should be
consulted.

18. DRUGS WHICH MODERATE DESIRE.--Among one of the most common domestic remedies is camphor.
This has stood the test for ages. Small doses or half a grain in most instances diminishes
the sensibility of the organs of sex. In some cases it produces irritation of the bladder.
In that case it should be at once discontinued. On the whole a physician had better be consulted.
The safest drug among domestic remedies is a strong tea made out of hops. Saltpeter, or nitrate
of potash, taken in moderate quantities are very good remedies.

19. STRICTLY SPEAKING there is a distinction made between; impotence and sterility. Impotence
is a loss of power to engage in the sexual act and is common to men. It may be imperfection
in the male organ or a lack of sufficient sexual vigor to produce and maintain erection. Sterility
is a total loss of capacity in the reproduction of the species, and is common to women.

There are, however, very few causes of barrenness that cannot be removed when the patient is
perfectly developed. Sterility, in a female, most frequently depends upon a weakness or irritability
either in the ovaries or the womb, and anything having a strengthening effect upon either organ
will remove the disability. (See page 249.)

20. "OVER-INDULGENCE in intercourse," says Dr. Hoff, "is sometimes the cause of barrenness;
this is usually puzzling to the interested parties, inasmuch as the practices which, in their
opinion, should be the source of a numerous progeny, have the very opposite effect. By greatly
moderating their ardor, this defect may be remedied."

21. "NAPOLEON AND JOSEPHINE.--A certain adaptation between the male and female has been regarded
as necessary to conception, consisting of some mysterious influence which one sex exerts over
the other, neither one, however, being essentially impotent or sterile. The man may impregnate
one woman and not another, and the woman will conceive by one man and not by another. In the
marriage of Napoleon Bonaparte and Josephine no children were born, but after he had separated
from the Empress and wedded Maria Louisa of Austria, an heir soon came. Yet Josephine had children
by Beauharnais, her previous husband. But as all is not known as to the physical condition
of Josephine during her second marriage, it cannot be assumed that mere lack of adaptability
was the cause of unfruitfulness between them. There may have been some cause that history has
not recorded, or unknown to the state of medical science of those days. There are doubtless
many cases of apparently causeless unfruitfulness in marriage that even physicians, with a
knowledge of all apparent conditions in the parties cannot explain; but when, as elsewhere
related in this volume, impregnation by artificial means is successfully practised, it is useless
to attribute barrenness to purely psychological and adaptative influences."

       *       *       *       *       *

PRODUCING BOYS OR GIRLS AT WILL.

1. CAN THE SEXES BE PRODUCED AT WILL?--This question has been asked in all ages of the world.
Many theories have been advanced, but science has at last replied with some authority. The
following are the best known authorities which this age of science has produced.

2. THE AGRICULTURAL THEORY.--The agricultural theory as it may be called, because adopted by
farmers, is that impregnation occurring within four days of the close of the female monthlies
produces a girl, because the ovum is yet immature; but that when it occurs after the fourth
day from its close, gives a boy, because this egg is now mature; whereas after about the eighth
day this egg dissolves and passes off, so that impregnation is thereby rendered impossible,
till just before the mother's next monthly.--Sexual Science.

3. QUEEN BEES LAY FEMALE EGGS FIRST, and male after wards. So with hens; the first eggs laid
after the tread give females, the last males.

4. IF YOU WISH FEMALES, give the male at the first sign of heat; if males, at its end.--Prof.
Thury.

5. ON TWENTY-TWO SUCCESSIVE OCCASIONS I desired to have heifers, and succeeded in every case.
I have made in all twenty-nine experiments, after this method, and succeeded in every one,
in producing the sex I desired.--A Swiss Breeder.

6. THIS THURY PLAN has been tried on the farms of the Emperor of the French with unvarying success.

7. CONCEPTION IN THE FIRST HALF of the time between the menstrual periods produces females,
and males in the latter.--London Lancet.

8. INTERCOURSE in from two to six days after cessation of the menses produces girls, in from
nine to twelve, boys.--Medical Reporter.

THE MOST MALE POWER and passion creates boys; female girls. This law probably causes those
agricultural facts just cited thus: Conception right after menstruation give girls, because
the female is then the most impassioned; later, boys, because her wanting sexual warmth leaves
him the most vigorous. Mere sexual excitement, a wild, fierce, furious rush of passion, is
not only not sexual vigor, but in its inverse ratio; and a genuine insane fervor caused by
weakness; just as a like nervous excitability indicates weak nerves instead of strong. Sexual
power is deliberate, not wild; cool, not impetuous; while all false excitement diminishes effectiveness.--Fowler.

       *       *       *       *       *

ABORTION OR MISCARRIAGE.

1. ABORTION OR MISCARRIAGE is the expulsion of the child from the womb previous to six months;
after that it is called premature birth.

2. CAUSES.--It may be due to a criminal act of taking medicine for the express purpose of producing
miscarriage or it may be caused by certain medicines, severe sickness or nervousness, syphilis,
imperfect semen, lack of room in the pelvis and abdomen, lifting, straining, violent cold,
sudden mental excitement, excessive sexual intercourse, dancing, tight lacing, the use of strong
purgative medicines, bodily fatigue, late suppers, and fashionable amusements.

3. SYMPTOMS.--A falling or weakness and uneasiness in the region of the loins, thighs and womb,
pain in the small of the back, vomiting and sickness of the stomach, chilliness with a discharge
of blood accompanied with pain in the lower portions of the abdomen. These may take place in
a single hour, or it may continue for several days. If before the fourth month, there is not
so much danger, but the flow of blood is generally greater. If miscarriage is the result of
an accident, it generally takes place without much warning, and the service of a physician
should at once be secured.

4. HOME TREATMENT.--A simple application of cold water externally applied will produce relief,
or cold cloths of ice, if convenient, applied to the lower portions of the abdomen. Perfect
quiet, however, is the most essential thing for the patient. She should lie on her back and
take internally a teaspoonful of paregoric every two hours; drink freely of lemonade or other
cooling drinks, and for nourishment subsist chiefly on chicken broth, toast, water gruel, fresh
fruits, etc. The principal homeopathic remedies for this disease are ergot and cimicifuga,
given in drop-doses of the tinctures.

5. INJURIOUS EFFECTS.--Miscarriage is a very serious difficulty, and the health and the constitution
may be permanently impaired. Any one prone to miscarriage should adopt every measure possible
to strengthen and build up the system; avoid going up stairs or doing much heavy lifting or
hard work.

6. PREVENTION.--Practice the laws of sexual abstinence, take frequent sitz-baths, live on oatmeal,
graham bread, and other nourishing diet. Avoid highly seasoned food, rich gravies, late suppers
and the like.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MURDER OF THE INNOCENTS.

1. MANY CAUSES.--Many causes have operated to produce a corruption of the public morals so
deplorable; prominent among which may be mentioned the facility with which divorces may be
obtained in some of the States, the constant promulgation of false ideas of marriage and its
duties by means of books, lectures, etc., and the distribution through the mails of impure
publications. But an influence not less powerful than any of these is the growing devotion
of fashion and luxury of this age, and the idea which practically obtains to so great an extent
that pleasure, instead of the health or morals, is the great object of life.

2. A MONSTROUS CRIME.--The abiding interest we feel in the preservation of the morals of our
country, constrains us to raise our voice against the daily increasing practice of infanticide,
especially before birth. The notoriety that monstrous crime has obtained of late, and the hecatombs
of infants that are annually sacrificed to Moloch, to gratify an unlawful passion, are a sufficient
justification for our alluding to a painful and delicate subject, which should "not even be
named," only to correct and admonish the wrong-doers.

3. LOCALITIES IN WHICH IT IS MOST PREVALENT.--We may observe that the crying sin of infanticide
is most prevalent In those localities where the system of moral education has been longest
neglected. This inhuman crime might be compared to the murder of the innocents, except that
the criminals, in this case, exceed in enormity the cruelty of Herod.

4. SHEDDING INNOCENT BLOOD.--If it is a sin to take away the life even of an enemy; if the
crime of shedding innocent blood cries to heaven for vengeance; in what language can we characterize
the double guilt of those whose souls are stained with the innocent blood of their own unborn,
unregenerated offspring?

5. THE GREATNESS OF THE CRIME.--The murder of an infant before its birth, is, in the sight
of God and the law, as great a crime as the killing of a child after birth.

6. LEGAL RESPONSIBILITY.--Every State of the Union has made this offense one of the most serious
crimes. The law has no mercy for the offenders that violate the sacred law of human life. It
is murder of the most cowardly character and woe to him who brings this curse upon his head,
to haunt him all the days of his or her life, and to curse him at the day of his death.

7. THE PRODUCT OF LUST.--Lust pure and simple. The only difference between a marriage of this
character and prostitution is, that society, rotten to its heart, pulpits afraid to cry aloud
against crime and vice, and the church conformed to the world, have made such a profanation
of marriage respectable. To put it in other words, when two people determine to live together
as husband and wife, and evade the consequences and responsibilities of marriage, they are
simply engaged in prostitution without the infamy which attaches to that vice and crime.

8. OUTRAGEOUS VIOLATION OF ALL LAW.--The violation of all law, both natural and revealed, is
the cool and villainous contract by which people entering into the marital relation engage
in defiance of the laws of God and the laws of the commonwealth, that they shall be unencumbered
with a family of children. "Disguise the matter as you will," says Dr. Pomeroy, "yet the fact
remains that the first and specific object of marriage is the rearing of a family." "Be fruitful
and multiply and replenish the earth," is God's first word to Adam after his creation.

9. THE NATIONAL SIN.--The prevention of offspring is preeminently the sin of America. It is
fast becoming the national sin of America, and if it is not checked, it will sooner or later
be an irremediable calamity. The sin has its roots in a low and perverted idea of marriage,
and is fostered by false standards of modesty.

10. THE SIN OF HEROD.--Do these same white-walled sepulchres of hell know that they are committing
the damning sin of Herod in the slaughter of the innocents, and are accessories before the
fact to the crime of murder? Do women in all circles of society, when practicing these terrible
crimes realize the real danger? Do they understand that it is undermining their health, and
their constitution, and that their destiny, if persisted in, is a premature grave just as sure
as the sun rises in the heavens? Let all beware and let the first and only purpose be, to live
a life guiltless before God and man.

11.

12.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE UNWELCOME CHILD.[Footnote: This is the title of a pamphlet written by Henry C. Wright.
We have taken some extracts from it.]

1. TOO OFTEN THE HUSBAND thinks only of his personal gratification; he insists upon what he
calls his rights(?); forces on his wife an unwelcome child, and thereby often alienates her
affections, if he does not drive her to abortion.

Dr Stockham reports the following case: "A woman once consulted me who was the mother of five
children, all born within ten years. These were puny, scrofulous, nervous and irritable. She
herself was a fit subject for doctors and drugs. Every organ in her body seemed diseased, and
every function perverted. She was dragging out a miserable existence. Like other physicians,
I had prescribed in vain for her many maladies. One day she chanced to inquire how she could
safely prevent conception. This led me to ask how great was the danger. She said: 'Unless my
husband is absent from home, few nights have been exempt since we were married, except it may
be three or four immediately after confinement.'

"'And yet your husband loves you?'

"'O, yes, he is kind and provides for his family. Perhaps I might love him but for this. While
now--(will God forgive me?)--I detest, I loathe him, and if I knew how to support myself and
children, I would leave him.'

"'Can you talk with him upon this subject?'

"'I think I can.'

"'Then there is hope, for many women cannot do that. Tell him I will give you treatment to
improve your health and if he will wait until you can respond, take time for the act, have
it entirely mutual from first to last, the demand will not come so frequent.'

"'Do you think so?'

"'The experience of many proves the truth of this statement.'

"Hopefully she went home, and in six months I had the satisfaction of knowing my patient was
restored to health, and a single coition in a month gave the husband more satisfaction than
the many had done previously, that the creative power was under control, and that my lady could
proudly say 'I love,' where previously she said 'I hate.'

"If husbands will listen, a few simple instructions will appeal to their common sense, and
none can imagine the gain to themselves, to their wives and children, and their children's
children. Then it may not be said of the babes that the 'Death borders on their birth, and
their cradle stands in the grave.'"

2. WIVES! BE FRANK AND TRUE to your husbands on the subject of maternity, and the relation
that leads to it. Interchange thoughts and feelings with them as to what nature allows or demands
in regard to these. Can maternity be natural when it is undesigned by the father or undesired
by the mother? Can a maternity be natural, healthful, ennobling to the mother, to the child,
to the father, and to the home, when no loving, tender, anxious forethought presides over thee
relation in which it originated?--when the mother's nature loathed and repelled it, and the
father's only thought was his own selfish gratification; the feelings and conditions of the
mother, and the health, character and destiny of the child that may result being ignored by
him. Wives! let there be a perfect and loving understanding between you and your husbands on
these matters, and great will be your reward.

3. A WOMAN WRITES:--"There are few, vary few, wives and mothers who could not reveal a sad,
dark picture in their own experience in their relations to their husbands and their children.
Maternity, and the relation in which it originates, are thrust upon them by their husbands,
often without regard to their spiritual or physical conditions, and often in contempt of their
earnest and urgent entreaties. No joy comes to their heart at the conception and birth of their
children, except that which arises from the consciousness that they have survived the sufferings
wantonly and selfishly inflicted upon them."

4. HUSBAND, WHEN MATERNITY is imposed on your wife without her consent, and contrary to her
appeal, how will her mind necessarily be affected towards her child? It was conceived in dread
and in bitterness of spirit. Every stage of its foetal development is watched with feeling
of settled repugnance. In every step of its ante-natal progress the child meets only with grief
and indignation in the mother. She would crush out its life, if she could. She loathed its
conception; she loathed it in every stage of its ante-natal development. Instead of fixing
her mind on devising ways and means for the healthful and happy organization and development
of her child before it is born, and for its post natal comfort and support, her soul may be
intent on its destruction, and her thoughts devise plans to kill it. In this, how often is
she aided by others! There are those, and they are called men and women, whose profession is
to devise ways to kill children before they are born. Those who do this would not hesitate
(but for the consequences) to kill them after they are born, for the state of mind that would
justify and instigate ante-natal child-murder would justify and instigate post-natal child-murder.
Yet, public sentiment consigns the murderer of post-natal children to the dungeon or the gallows,
while the murderers of antenatal children are often allowed to pass in society as honest and
honorable men and women.

5. THE FOLLOWING IS AN EXTRACT from a letter written by one who has proudly and nobly filled
the station of a wife and mother, and whose children and grandchildren surround her and crown
her life with tenderest love and respect:

"It has often been a matter of wonder to me that men should, so heedlessly, and so injuriously
to themselves, their wives and children, and their homes, demand at once, as soon as they get
legal possession of their wives, the gratification of a passion, which, when indulged merely
for the sake of the gratification of the moment, must end in the destruction of all that is
beautiful, noble and divine in man or woman. I have often felt that I would give the world
for a friendship with man that should show no impurity in its bearing, and for a conjugal relation
that would, at all times, heartily and practically recognize the right of the wife to decide
for herself when she should enter into the relation that leads to maternity."

6. TIMELY ADVICE.--Here let me say that on no subject should a man and woman, as they are being
attracted into conjugal relations, be more open and truthful with each other than on this.
No woman, who would save herself and the man she loves from a desecrated and wretched home,
should enter into the physical relations of marriage with a man until she understands what
he expects of her as to the function of maternity, and the relation that leads to it. If a
woman is made aware that the man who would win her as a wife regards her and the marriage relation
only as the means of a legalized gratification of his passions, and she sees fit to live with
him as a wife, with such a prospect before her, she must take the consequences of a course
so degrading and so shameless. If she sees fit to make an offering of her body and soul on
the altar of her husband's sensuality, she must do it; but she has a right to know to what
base uses her womanhood is to be put, and it is due to her, as well as to himself, that he
should tell beforehand precisely what he wants and expects of her.

Too frequently, man shrinks from all allusion, during courtship, to his expectations in regard
to future passional relations. He fears to speak of them, lest he should shock and repel the
woman he would win as a wife. Being conscious, it may be, of an intention to use power he may
acquire over her person for his own gratification, he shuns all interchange of views with her,
lest she should divine the hidden sensualism of his soul, and his intention to victimize her
person to it the moment he shall get the license. A woman had better die at once than enter
into or continue in marriage with a man whose highest conception of the relation is, that it
is a means of licensed animal indulgence. In such a relation, body and soul are sacrificed.

7. ONE DISTINCTIVE CHARACTERISTIC of a true and noble husband is a feeling of manly pride in
the physical elements of his manhood. His physical manhood, as well as his soul, is dear to
the heart of his wife, because through this he can give the fullest expression of his manly
power. How can you, my friend, secure for your person the loving care and respect of your wife?
There is but one way: so manifest yourself to her, in the hours of your most endearing intimacies,
that all your manly power shall be associated only with all that is generous, just and noble
in you, and with purity, freedom and happiness in her. Make her feel that all which constitutes
you a man, and qualifies you to be her husband and the father of her children, belongs to her,
and is sacredly consecrated to the perfection and happiness of her nature. Do this, and the
happiness of your home is made complete Your body will be lovingly and reverently cared for,
because the wife of your bosom feels that it is the sacred symbol through which a noble, manly
love is ever speaking to her, to cheer and sustain her.

8. WOMAN IS EVER PROUD, and justly so, of the manly passion of her husband, when she knows
it is controlled by a love for her, whose manifestations have regard only to her elevation
and happiness. The power which, when bent only on selfish indulgence, becomes a source of more
shame, degradation, disease and wretchedness, to women and to children than all other things
put together, does but ennoble her, add grace and glory to her being, and concentrate and vitalize
the love that encircles her as a wife when it is controlled by wisdom and consecrated to her
highest growth and happiness, and that of her children. It lends enchantment to her person,
and gives a fascination to her smiles, her words and her caresses, which ever breathe of purity
and of heaven, and make her all lovely as a wife and mother to her husband and the father of
her child. Manly passion is to the conjugal love of the wife like the sun to the rose-bud,
that opens its petals, and causes them to give out their sweetest fragrance and to display
their most delicate tints; or like the frost, which chills and kills it ere it blossoms in
its richness and beauty.

9. A DIADEM OF BEAUTY.--Maternity, when it exists at the call of the wife, and is gratefully
received, but binds her heart more tenderly and devotedly to her husband. As the father of
her child, he stands before her invested with new beauty and dignity. In receiving from him
the germ of a new life, she receives that which she feels is to add new beauty and glory to
her as a woman--a new grace and attraction to her as a wife. She loves and honors him, because
he has crowned her with the glory of a mother. Maternity, to her, instead of being repulsive,
is a diadem of beauty, a crown of rejoicing; and deep, tender, and self-forgetting are her
love and reverence for him who has placed it on her brow. How noble, how august, how beautiful
is maternity when thus bestowed and received!

10. CONCLUSION.--Would you, then, secure the love and trust of your wife, and become an object
of her ever-growing tenderness and reverence? Assure her, by all your manifestations, and your
perfect respect for the functions of her nature, that your passion shall be in subjection of
her wishes. It is not enough that you have secured in her heart respect for your spiritual
and intellectual manhood. To maintain your self-respect in your relations with her, to perfect
your growth and happiness as a husband, you must cause your physical nature to be tenderly
cherished and reverenced by her in all the sacred intimacies of home. No matter how much she
reverences your intellectual or your social power, if by reason of your uncalled-for passional
manifestations you have made your physical manhood disagreeable, how can you, in her presence,
preserve a sense of manly pride and dignity as a husband?

       *       *       *       *       *

HEALTH AND DISEASE.

Heredity and the Transmission of Diseases.

1. BAD HABITS.--It is known that the girl who marries the man with bad habits, is, in a measure,
responsible for the evil tendencies which these habits have created in the children; and young
people are constantly warned of the danger in marrying when they know they come from families
troubled with chronic diseases or insanity. To be sure the warnings have had little effect
thus far in preventing such marriages, and it is doubtful whether they will, unless the prophecy
of an extremist writing for one of our periodicals comes to pass--that the time is not far
distant when such marriages will be a crime punishable by law.

2. TENDENCY IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION.--That there is a tendency in the right direction must be
admitted, and is perhaps most clearly shown in some of the articles on prison reform. Many
of them strongly urge the necessity of preventive work as the truest economy, and some go so
far as to say that if the present human knowledge of the laws of heredity were acted upon for
a generation, reformatory measures would be rendered unnecessary.

3. SERIOUS CONSEQUENCES.--The mother who has ruined her health by late hours, highly-spiced
food, and general carelessness in regard to hygienic laws, and the father who is the slave
of questionable habits, will be very sure to have children either mentally or morally inferior
to what they might otherwise have had a right to expect. But the prenatal influences may be
such that evils arising from such may be modified to a great degree.

4. FORMATION OF CHARACTER.--I believe that pre-natal influences may do as much in the formation
of character as all the education that can come after, and that the mother may, in a measure,
"will" what that influence shall be, and that, as knowledge on the subject increases, it will
be more and more under their control. In that, as in everything else, things that would be
possible with one mother would not be with another, and measures that would be successful with
one would produce opposite results from the other.

5. INHERITING DISEASE.

6. MENTAL DERANGEMENTS.--Almost all forms of mental derangements are hereditary--one of the
parents or near relation being afflicted. Physical or bodily weakness is often hereditary,
such as scrofula, gout, rheumatism, rickets, consumption, apoplexy, hernia, urinary calculi,
hemorrhoids or piles, cataract, etc. In fact, all physical weakness, if ingrafted in either
parent, is transmitted from parents to offspring, and is often more strongly marked in the
latter than in the former.

7. MARKS AND DEFORMITIES.--Marks and deformities are all transmissible from parents to offspring,
equally with diseases and peculiar proclivities. Among such blemishes may be mentioned moles,
hair-lips, deficient or supernumerary fingers, toes, and other characteristics. It is also
asserted that dogs and cats that have accidentally lost their tails, bring forth young similarly
deformed. Blumenbach tells of a man who had lost his little finger, having children with the
same deformity.

8. CAUTION.--Taking facts like these into consideration, how very important is it for persons,
before selecting partners for life, to deliberately weigh every element and circumstances of
this nature, if they would insure a felicitous union, and not entail upon their posterity disease,
misery and despair. Alas! in too many instances matrimony is made a matter of money, while
all earthly joys are sacrificed upon the accursed altars of lust and mammon.

       *       *       *       *       *

PREPARATION FOR MATERNITY.

1. WOMAN BEFORE MARRIAGE.--It is not too much to say that the life of women before marriage
ought to be adjusted with more reference to their duties as mothers than to any other one earthly
object. It is the continuance of the race which is the chief purpose of marriage. The passion
of amativeness is probably, on the whole, the most powerful of all human impulses. Its purpose,
however, is rather to subserve the object of continuing the species, than merely its own gratification.

2. EXERCISE.--Girls should be brought up to live much in the open air, always with abundant
clothing against wet and cold. They should be encouraged to take much active exercise; as much,
if they; want to, as boys. It is as good for little girls to run and jump, to ramble in the
woods, to go boating, to ride and drive, to play and "have fun" generally, as for little boys.

3. PRESERVE THE SIGHT.--Children should be carefully prevented from using their eyes to read
or write, or in any equivalent exertion, either before breakfast, by dim daylight, or by artificial
light. Even school studies should be such that they can be dealt with by daylight. Lessons
that cannot be learned without lamp-light study are almost certainly excessive. This precaution
should ordinarily be maintained until the age of puberty is reached.

4. BATHING.--Bathing should be enforced according to constitutions, not by an invariable rule,
except the invariable rule of keeping clean. Not necessarily every day, nor necessarily in
cold water; though those conditions are doubtless often right in case of abundant physical
health and strength.

5. WRONG HABITS.--The habit of daily natural evacuations should be solicitously formed and
maintained. Words or figures could never express the discomforts and wretchedness which wrong
habits in this particular have locked down upon innumerable women for years and even for life.

6. DRESS.--Dress should be warm, loose, comely, and modest rather than showy; but it should
be good enough to Satisfy a child's desires after a good appearance, if they are reasonable.
Children, indeed, should have all their reasonable desires granted as far as possible; for
nothing makes them reasonable so rapidly and so surely as to treat them reasonably.

7. TIGHT LACING.--Great harm is often done to maidens for want of knowledge in them, or wisdom
and care in their parents. The extremes of fashions are very prone to violate not only taste,
but physiology. Such cases are tight lacing, low necked dresses, thin shoes, heavy skirts.
And yet, if the ladies only knew, the most attractive costumes are not the extremes of fashion,
but those which conform to fashion enough to avoid oddity, which preserve decorum and healthfulness,
whether or no; and here is the great secret of successful dress--vary fashion so as to suit
the style of the individual.

8. COURTSHIP AND MARRIAGE.--Last of all, parental care in the use of whatever influence can
be exerted in the matter of courtship and marriage. Maidens, as well as youths, must, after
all, choose for themselves. It is their own lives which they take in their hands as they enter
the marriage state, and not their parents; and as the consequences affect them primarily it
is the plainest justice that with the responsibility should be joined the right of choice.
The parental influence, then, must be indirect and advisory. Indirect, through the whole bringing
up of their daughter; for if they have trained her aright, she will be incapable of enduring
a fool, still more a knave.

9. A YOUNG WOMAN AND A YOUNG MAN HAD BETTER NOT BE ALONE TOGETHER VERY MUCH UNTIL THEY ARE
MARRIED.--This will be found to prevent a good many troubles. It is not meant to imply that
either sex, or any member of it, is worse than another, or bad at all, or anything but human.
It is simply the prescription of a safe general rule. It is no more an imputation than the
rule that people had better not be left without oversight in presence of large sums of other
folks' money. The close personal proximity of the sexes is greatly undesirable before marriage.
Kisses and caresses are most properly the monopoly of wives. Such indulgences have a direct
and powerful physiological effect. Nay, they often lead to the most fatal results.

10. IGNORANCE BEFORE MARRIAGE.--At some time before marriage those who are to enter into it
ought to be made acquainted with some of the plainest common-sense limitations which should
govern their new relations to each other. Ignorance in such matters has caused an infinite
amount of disgust, pain and unhappiness. It is not necessary to specify particulars here; see
other portions of this work.

       *       *       *       *       *

IMPREGNATION.

1. CONCEPTION OR IMPREGNATION.--Conception or impregnation takes place by the union of the
male sperm and female sperm. Whether this is accomplished in the ovaries, the oviducts or the
uterus, is still a question of discussion and investigation by physiologists.

2. PASSING OFF THE OVUM.--"With many women," says Dr. Stockham in her Tokology, "the ovum passes
off within twenty-four or forty-eight hours after menstruation begins. Some, by careful observation,
are able to know with certainty when this takes place. It is often accompanied with malaise,
nervousness, headache or actual uterine pain. A minute substance like the white of an egg,
with a fleck of blood in it, can frequently be seen upon the clothing. Ladies who have noticed
this phenomenon testify to its recurring very regularly upon the same day after menstruation.
Some delicate women have observed it as late as the fourteenth day."

3. CALCULATIONS.--Conception is more liable to take place either immediately before or immediately
after the period, and, on that account it is usual when calculating the date at which to expect
labor, to count from the day of disappearance of the last period. The easiest way to make a
calculation is to count back three months from the date of the last period and add seven days;
thus we might say that the date was the 18th of July; counting back brings us to the 18th of
April, and adding the seven days will bring us to the 25th day of April, the expected time.

4. EVIDENCE OF CONCEPTION.--Very many medical authorities, distinguished in this line, have
stated their belief that women never pass more than two or three days at the most beyond the
forty weeks conceded to pregnancy--that is two hundred and eighty days or ten lunar months,
or nine calendar months and a week. About two hundred and eighty days will represent the average
duration of pregnancy, counting from the last day of the last period. Now it must be borne
in mind, that there are many disturbing elements which might cause the young married woman
to miss a time. During the first month of pregnancy there is no sign by which the condition
may be positively known. The missing of a period, especially in a person who has, been regular
for some time, may lead one to suspect it; but there are many attendant causes in married life,
the little annoyances of household duties, embarrassments, and the enforced gayety which naturally
surrounds the bride, and these should all be taken into consideration in the discussion as
to whether or not she is pregnant. But then, again, there are some rare cases who have menstruated
throughout their pregnancy, and also cases where menstruation was never established and pregnancy
occurred. Nevertheless, the non-appearance of the period, with other signs, may be taken as
presumptive evidence.

5. "ARTIFICIAL IMPREGNATION".--It may not be generally known that union is not essential to
impregnation; it is possible for conception to occur without congress. All that is necessary
is that seminal animalcules enter the womb and unite there with the egg or ovum. It is not
essential that the semen be introduced through the medium of the male organ, as it has been
demonstrated repeatedly that by means of a syringe and freshly obtained and healthy semen,
impregnation can be made to follow by its careful introduction. There are physicians in France
who make a specialty of "Artificial Impregnation," as it is called, and produce children to
otherwise childless couples, being successful in many instances in supplying them as they are
desired.

       *       *       *       *       *

SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS OF PREGNANCY.

1. THE FIRST SIGN.--The first sign that leads a lady to suspect that she is pregnant is her
ceasing-to-be-unwell. This, provided she has just before been in good health, is a strong symptom
of pregnancy; but still there must be others to corroborate it.

2. ABNORMAL CONDITION.--Occasionally, women menstruate during the entire time of gestation.
This, without doubt, is an abnormal condition, and should be remedied, as disastrous consequences
may result. Also, women have been known to bear children who have never menstruated. The cases
are rare of pregnancy taking place where menstruation has never occurred, yet it frequently
happens that women never menstruate from one pregnancy to another. In these cases this symptom
is ruled out for diagnotic purposes.

3. MAY PROCEED FROM OTHER CAUSES.--But a ceasing-to-be-unwell may proceed from other causes
than that of pregnancy such as disease or disorder of the womb or of other organs of the body--especially
of the lungs--it is not by itself alone entirely to be depended upon; although, as a single
sign, it is, especially if the patient be healthy, one of the most reliable of all the other
signs of pregnancy.

4. MORNING SICKNESS.--If this does not arise from a disordered stomach, it is a trustworthy
sign of pregnancy. A lady who has once had morning-sickness can always for the future distinguish
it from each and from every other sickness; it is a peculiar sickness, which no other sickness
can simulate. Moreover, it is emphatically a morning-sickness--the patient being, as a rule,
for the rest of the day entirely free from sickness or from the feeling of sickness.

5. A THIRD SYMPTOM.--A third symptom is shooting, throbbing and lancinating pains in, and enlargement
of the breasts, with soreness of the nipples, occurring about the second month. In some instances,
after the first few months, a small quantity of watery fluid or a little milk, may be squeezed
out or them. This latter symptom, in a first pregnancy, is valuable, and can generally be relied
on as fairly conclusive of pregnancy. Milk in the breast, however small it may be in quantity,
especially in a first pregnancy, is a reliable sign, indeed, we might say, a certain sign,
of pregnancy.

6. A DARK BROWN AREOLA OR MARK around the nipple is one of the distinguishing signs of pregnancy--more
especially of a first pregnancy. Women who have had large families, seldom, even when they
are not pregnant, lose this mark entirely; but when they are pregnant it is more intensely
dark--the darkest brown--especially if they be brunettes.

7. QUICKENING.--Quickening is one of the most important signs of pregnancy, and one of the
most valuable, as at the moment it occurs, as a rule, the motion of the child is first felt,
whilst, at the same time, there is a sudden increase in the size of the abdomen. Quickening
is a proof that nearly half the time of pregnancy has passed. If there be liability to miscarry,
quickening makes matters more safe, as there is less likelihood of a miscarriage after than
before it. A lady at this time frequently feels faint or actually faints away; she is often
giddy, or sick, or nervous, and in some instances even hysterically; although, in rare cases,
some women do not even know the precise time when they quicken.

8. INCREASED SIZE AND HARDNESS OF THE ABDOMEN.--This is very characteristic of pregnancy. When
a lady is not pregnant the abdomen is soft and flaccid; when she is pregnant, and after she
has quickened, the abdomen; over the region of the womb, is hard and resisting.

9. EXCITABILITY OF MIND.--Excitability of mind is very common in pregnancy, more especially
if the patient be delicate; indeed, excitability is a sign of debility, and requires plenty
of good nourishment, but few stimulants.

10. ERUPTIONS ON THE SKIN.--Principally on the face, neck, or throat, are tell-tales of pregnancy,
and to an experienced matron, publish the fact that an acquaintance thus marked is pregnant.

11. THE FOETAL HEART.--In the fifth month there is a sign which, if detected, furnishes indubitable
evidence of conception, and that is the sound of the child's heart. If the ear be placed on
the abdomen, over the womb, the beating of the foetal heart can sometimes be heard quite plainly,
and by the use of an instrument called the stethoscope, the sounds can be still more plainly
heard. This is a very valuable sign, inasmuch as the presence of the child is not only ascertained,
but also its position, and whether there are twins or more.

       *       *       *       *       *

DISEASES OF PREGNANCY.

1. COSTIVE STATE OF THE BOWELS.--A costive state of the bowels is common in pregnancy; a mild
laxative is therefore occasionally necessary. The mildest must be selected, as a strong purgative
is highly improper, and even dangerous. Calomel and all other preparations of mercury are to
be especially avoided, as a mercurial medicine is apt to weaken the system, and sometimes even
to produce a miscarriage. Let me again urge the importance of a lady, during the whole period
of pregnancy, being particular as to the state of her bowels, as costiveness is a fruitful
cause of painful, tedious and hard labors.

2. LAXATIVES.--The best laxatives are caster oil, salad oil, compound rhubarb pills, honey,
stewed prunes, stewed rhubarb, Muscatel raisins, figs, grapes, roasted apples, baked pears,
stewed Normandy pippins, coffee, brown-bread and treacle. Scotch oatmeal made with new milk
or water, or with equal parts of milk and water.

3. PILLS.--When the motions are hard, and when the bowels are easily acted upon, two, or three,
or four pills made of Castile soap will frequently answer the purpose; and if they will, are
far better than any other ordinary laxative. The following is a good form. Take of:

  Castile Soap, five scruples;
  Oil of Caraway, six drops;

To make twenty-four pills. Two, or three, or four to be taken at bedtime, occasionally.

4. HONEY.--A teaspoonful of honey, either eaten at breakfast or dissolved in a cup of tea,
will frequently, comfortably and effectually, open the bowels, and will supersede the necessity
of taking laxative medicine.

5. NATURE'S MEDICINES.--Now, Nature's medicines--exercise in the open air, occupation, and
household duties--on the contrary, not only at the time open the bowels, but keep up a proper
action for the future; her--their inestimable superiority.

6. WARM WATER INJECTIONS.--An excellent remedy for costiveness of pregnancy is an enema, either
of warm water, or of Castile soap and water, which the patient, by means of a self-injecting
enema-apparatus, may administer to herself. The quantity of warm water to be used, is from
half a pint to a pint; the proper heat is the temperature of new milk; the time for administering
it is early in the morning, twice or three times a week.

7. MUSCULAR PAINS OF THE ABDOMEN.--The best remedy is an abdominal belt constructed for pregnancy,
and adjusted with proper straps and buckles to accomodate the gradually increasing size of
the womb. This plan often affords great comfort and relief; indeed, such a belt is indispensably
necessary.

8. DIARRHEA.--Although the bowels in pregnancy are generally costive, they are sometimes in
an opposite state, and are relaxed. Now, this relaxation is frequently owing to there having
been prolonged constipation, and Nature is trying to relieve herself by purging. Do not check
it, but allow it to have its course, and take a little rhubarb or magnesia. The diet should
be simple, plain, and nourishing, and should consist of beef tea, chicken broth, arrow-root,
and of well-made and well-boiled oatmeal gruel. Butcher's meat, for a few days, should not
be eaten; and stimulants of all kinds must be avoided.

9. FIDGETS.--A pregnant lady sometimes suffers severely from "fidgets"; it generally affects
her feet and legs, especially at night, so as to entirely destroy her sleep; she cannot lie
still; she every few minutes moves, tosses and tumbles about--first on one side, then on the
other. The causes of "fidgets" are a heated state of the blood; an irritable condition of the
nervous system, prevailing at that particular time; and want of occupution. The treatment of
"fidgets" consists of: sleeping in a well-ventilated apartment, with either window or door
open; a thorough ablution of the whole body every morning, and a good washing with tepid water
of the face, neck, chest, arms and hands every night; shunning hot and close rooms; taking
plenty of out-door exercise; living on a bland, nourishing, put not rich diet; avoiding meat
at night, and substituting in lieu thereof, either a cupful of arrow-root made with milk, or
of well-boiled oatmeal gruel.

10. EXERCISE.--If a lady, during the night, have the "fidgets," she should get out of bed;
take a short walk up and down the room, being well protected by a dressing-gown; empty her
bladders turn, her pillow, so as to have the cold side next the head; and then lie down again;
and the chances are that she will now fall asleep. If during the day she have the "fidgets,"
a ride in an open carriage; or a stroll in the garden, or in the fields; or a little housewifery,
will do her good, and there is nothing like fresh air, exercise, and occupation to drive away
"the fidgets."

11. HEARTBURN.--Heartburn is a common and often a distressing symptom of pregnancy. The acid
producing the heartburn is frequently much increased by an overloaded stomach. An abstemious
diet ought to be strictly observed. Great attention should be paid to the quality of the food.
Greens, pastry, hot buttered toast, melted butter, and everything that is rich and gross, ought
to be carefully avoided. Either a teaspoonful of heavy calcined magnesia, or half a teaspoonful
of carbonate of soda--the former to be preferred if there be constipation--should occasionally
be taken in a wine-glassful of warm water. If these do not relieve--the above directions as
to diet having been strictly attended to--the following mixture ought to be tried. Take of:

  Carbonate of Ammonia, half a drachm;
  Bicarbonate of Soda, a drachm and a half;
  Water, eight ounces;

To make a mixture: Two tablespoonfuls to be taken twice or three times a day, until relief
be obtained.

12. WIND IN THE STOMACH AND BOWELS.--This is a frequent reason why a pregnant lady cannot sleep
at night. The two most frequent causes of flatulence are, first, the want of walking exercise
during the day, and second, the eating of a hearty meal just before going to bed at night.
The remedies are, of course, in each instance, self-evident.

13. SWOLLEN LEGS FROM ENLARGED VEINS (VARICOSE VEINS.)--The veins are frequently much enlarged
and distended, causing the legs to be greatly swollen and very painful, preventing the patient
from taking proper walking exercise. Swollen legs are owing to the pressure of the womb upon
the blood-vessels above. Women who have had large families are more liable than others to varicose
veins. If a lady marry late in life, or if she be very heavy in pregnancy carrying the child
low down she is more likely to have distention of the veins. The best plan will be for her
to wear during the day an elastic stocking, which ought to be made on purpose for her, in order
that it may properly fit the leg and foot.

14. STRETCHING OF THE SKIN OF THE ABDOMEN. This is frequently, in a first pregnancy, distressing,
from the soreness it causes. The best remedy is to rub the abdomen, every night and morning,
with warm camphorated oil, and to wear a belt during the day and a broad flannel bandage at
night, both of which should be put on moderately but comfortably tight. The belt must be secured
in its situation by means of properly adjusted straps.

15. BEFORE THE APPROACH OF LABOR.--The patient, before the approach of labor, ought to take
particular care to have the bowels gently opened, as during that state a costive state greatly
increases her sufferings, and lengthens the period of her labor. A gentle action is all that
is necessary; a violent one would do more harm than good.

16. SWOLLEN AND PAINFUL BREASTS. The breasts are, at times, during pregnancy, much swollen
and very painful; and, now and then, they; cause the patient great uneasiness, as she fancies
that she is going to have either some dreadful tumor or a gathering of the bosom. There need,
in such a case, be no apprehension. The swelling and the pain are the consequences of the pregnancy,
and will in due time subside without any unpleasant result. For treatment she cannot do better
than rub them well, every night and morning, with equal parts of Eau de Cologne and olive oil,
and wear a piece of new flannel over them; taking care to cover the nipples with soft linen,
as the friction of the flannel might irritate them.

17. BOWEL COMPLAINTS. Bowel complaints, during pregnancy, are not unfrequent. A dose either
of rhubarb and magnesia, or of castor oil, are the best remedies, and are generally, in the
way of medicine, all that is necessary.

18. CRAMPS. Cramps of the legs and of the thighs during the latter period, and especially at
night, are apt to attend pregnancy, and are caused by the womb pressing upon the nerves which
extend to the lower extremities. Treatment. Tightly tie a handkerchief, folded like a neckerchief,
round the limb a little above the part affected, and let it remain on for a few minutes. Friction
by means of the hand either with opodeldoc or with laudanum, taking care not to drink the lotion
by mistake, will also give relief.

19. THE WHITES. The whites during pregnancy, especially during the latter months, and particularly
if the lady have had many children, are frequently troublesome, and are, in a measure, occasioned
by the pressure of the womb on the parts below, causing irritation. The best way, therefore,
to obviate such pressure is for the patient to lie down a great part of each day either on
a bed or a sofa. She ought to retire early to rest: she should sleep on a hair mattress and
in a well ventilated apartment, and should not overload her bed with clothes. A thick, heavy
quilt at these times, and indeed at all times, is particularly objectionable; the perspiration
cannot pass readily through it as through blankets, and thus she is weakened. She ought to
live on plain, wholesome, nourishing food; and she must abstain from beer and wine and spirits.
The bowels ought to be gently opened by means of a Seidlitz powder, which should occasionally
be taken early in the morning.

20. IRRITATION AND ITCHING OF THE EXTERNAL PARTS.--This is a most troublesome affection, and
may occur at any time, but more especially during the latter period of the pregnancy. Let her
diet be simple and nourishing; let her avoid stimulants of all kinds. Let her take a sitz-bath
of warm water, considerably salted. Let her sit in the bath with the body thoroughly covered.

21. HOT AND INFLAMED.--The external parts, and the passage to the womb (vagina), in these cases,
are not only irritable and itching, but are sometimes hot and inflamed, and are covered either
with small pimples, or with a whitish exudation of the nature of aphtha (thrush), somewhat
similar to the thrush on the mouth of an infant; then, the addition of glycerine to the lotion
is a great improvement and usually gives much relief.

22. BILIOUSNESS[Footnote: Some of these valuable suggestions are taken from "Parturition Without
Pain," by Dr. M.L. Holbrook.] is defined by some one as piggishness. Generally it may be regarded
as overfed. The elements of the bile are in the blood in excess of the power of the liver to
eliminate them. This may be caused either from the superabundance of the materials from which
the bile is made or by inaction of the organ itself. Being thus retained the system is clogged.
It is the result of either too much food in quantity or too rich in quality. Especially is
it caused by the excessive use of fats and sweets. The simplest remedy is the best. A plain,
light diet with plenty of acid fruits, avoiding fats and sweets, will ameliorate or remove
it. Don't force the appetite. Let hunger demand food. In the morning the sensitiveness of the
stomach may be relieved by taking before rising a cup of hot water, hot milk, hot lemonade,
rice or barley water, selecting according to preference. For this purpose many find coffee
made from browned wheat or corn the best drink. Depend for a time upon liquid food that can
be taken up by absorbents. The juice of lemons and other acid fruits is usually grateful, and
assists in assimilating any excess in nutriment. These may be diluted according to taste. With
many, an egg lemonade proves relishing and acceptable.

23. DERANGED APPETITE.--Where the appetite fails, let the patient go without eating for a little
while, say for two or three meals. If, however, the strength begins to go, try the offering
of some unexpected delicacy; or give small quantities of nourishing food, as directed in case
of morning sickness.

24. PILES.--For cases of significance consult a physician. As with constipation, so with piles,
its frequent result, fruit diet, exercise, and sitz-bath regimen will do much to prevent the
trouble. Frequent local applications of a cold compress, and even of ice, and tepid water injections,
are of great service. Walking or standing aggravate this complaint. Lying down alleviates it.
Dr. Shaw says, "There is nothing in the world that will produce so great relief in piles as
fasting. If the fit is severe, live a whole day, or even two, if necessary, upon pure soft
cold water alone. Give then very lightly of vegetable food."

25. TOOTHACHE.--There is a sort of proverb that a woman loses one tooth every time she has
a child. Neuralgic toothache during pregnancy is, at any rate, extremely common, and often
has to be endured. It is generally thought not best to have teeth extracted during pregnancy,
as the shock to the nervous system has sometimes caused miscarriage. To wash out the mouth
morning and night with cold or lukewarm water and salt is often of use. If the teeth are decayed,
consult a good dentist in the early stages of pregnancy, and have the offending teeth properly
dressed. Good dentists, in the present state of the science, extract very few teeth, but save them.

26. SALIVATION.--Excessive secretion of the saliva has usually been reckoned substantially
incurable. Fasting, cold water treatment, exercise and fruit diet may be relied on to prevent,
cure or alleviate it, where this is possible, as it frequently is.

27. HEADACHE.--This is, perhaps, almost as common in cases of pregnancy as "morning sickness."
It may be from determination of blood to the head, from constipation or indigestion, constitutional
"sick headache," from neuralgia, from a cold, from rheumatism. Correct living will prevent
much headache trouble; and where this does not answer the purpose, rubbing and making magnetic
passes over the head by the hand of some healthy magnetic person will often prove of great service.

28. LIVER-SPOTS.--These, on the face, must probably be endured, as no trustworthy way of driving
them off is known.

29. JAUNDICE.--See the doctor.

30. PAIN ON THE RIGHT SIDE.--This is liable to occur from about the fifth to the eighth month,
and is attributed to the pressure of the enlarging womb upon the liver. Proper living is most
likely to alleviate it. Wearing a wet girdle in daytime or a wet compress at night, sitz-baths,
and friction with the wet hand may also be tried. If the pain is severe a mustard poultice
may be used. Exercise should be carefully moderated if found to increase the pain. If there
is fever and inflammation with it, consult a physician. It is usually not dangerous, but uncomfortable
only.

31. PALPITATION OF THE HEART.--To be prevented by healthy living and calm, good humor. Lying
down will often gradually relieve it, so will a compress wet with water, as hot as can be borne,
placed over the heart and renewed as often as it gets cool.

32. FAINTING.--Most likely to be caused by "quickening," or else by tight dress, bad air, over-exertion,
or other unhealthy living. It is not often dangerous. Lay the patient in an easy posture, the
head rather low than high, and where cool air may blow across the face; loosen the dress if
tight; sprinkle cold water on the face and hands.

33. SLEEPLESSNESS.--Most likely to be caused by incorrect living, and to be prevented and cured
by the opposite. A glass or two of cold water drank deliberately on going to bed often helps
one to go to sleep; so does bathing the face and hands and the feet in cold water. A short
nap in the latter part of the forenoon can sometimes be had, and is of use. Such a nap ought
not to be too long, or it leaves a heavy feeling; it should be sought with the mind in a calm
state, in a well-ventilated though darkened room, and with the clothing removed, as at night.
A similar nap in the afternoon is not so good, but is better than nothing. The tepid sitz-bath
on going to bed will often produce sleep, and so will gentle percussion given by an attendant
with palms of the hand over the back for a few minutes on retiring. To secure sound sleep do
not read, write or severely tax the mind in the evening.

       *       *       *       *       *

MORNING SICKNESS.

1. A pregnant woman is especially liable to suffer many forms of dyspepsia, nervous troubles,
sleeplessness, etc.

2. MORNING SICKNESS is the most common and is the result of an irritation in the womb, caused
by some derangement, and it is greatly irritated by the habit of indulging in sexual gratification
during pregnancy. If people would imitate the lower animals and reserve the vital forces of
the mother for the benefit of her unborn child, it would be a great boon to humanity. Morning
sickness may begin the next day after conception, but it usually appears from two to three
weeks after the beginning of pregnancy and continues with more or less severity from two to
four months.

3. HOME TREATMENT FOR MORNING SICKNESS.--Avoid all highly seasoned and rich food. Also avoid
strong tea and coffee. Eat especially light and simple suppers at five o'clock and no later
than six. Some simple broths, such as will be found in the cooking department of this book
will be very nourishing and soothing. Coffee made from brown wheat or corn is an excellent
remedy to use. The juice of lemons reduced with water will sometimes prove very effectual.
A good lemonade with an egg well stirred is very nourishing and toning to the stomach.

4. HOT FOMENTATION on the stomach and liver is excellent, and warm and hot water injections
are highly beneficial.

5. A little powdered magnesia at bed time, taken in a little milk, will often give almost permanent
relief.

6. Avoid corsets or any other pressure upon the stomach. All garments must be worn loosely.
In many cases this will entirely prevent all stomach disturbances.

       *       *       *       *       *

RELATION OF HUSBAND AND WIFE DURING PREGNANCY.

1. MISCARRIAGE.--If the wife is subject to miscarriage every precaution should be employed
to prevent its happening again. Under such exceptional circumstances the husband should sleep
apart the first five months of pregnancy; after that length of time, the ordinary relation
may be assumed. If miscarriage has taken place, intercourse should be avoided for a month or
six weeks at least after the accident.

2. IMPREGNATION.--Impregnation is the only mission of intercourse, and after that has taken
place, intercourse can subserve no other purpose than sensual gratification.

3. WOMAN MUST JUDGE.--Every man should recognize the fact that woman is the sole umpire as
to when, how frequent, and under what circumstances, connection should take place. Her desires
should not be ignored, for her likes and dislikes are--as seen in another part of this book--easily
impressed upon the unborn child. If she is strong and healthy there is no reason why passion
should not be gratified with moderation and caution during the whole period of pregnancy, but
she must be the sole judge and her desires supreme.

4. VOLUNTARY INSTANCES.--No voluntary instances occur through the entire animal kingdom. All
females repel with force and fierceness the approaches of the male. The human family is the
only exception. A man that loves his wife, however, will respect her under all circumstances
and recognize her condition and yield to her wishes.

       *       *       *       *       *

A PRIVATE WORD TO THE EXPECTANT MOTHER.

Elizabeth Cady Stanton, in a lecture to ladies, thus strongly states her views regarding maternity
and painless childbirth:

"We must educate our daughters to think that motherhood is grand, and that God never cursed
it. And this curse, if it be a curse, may be rolled off, as man has rolled away the curse of
labor; as the curse has been rolled from the descendants of Ham. My mission is to preach this
new gospel. If you suffer, it is not because you are cursed of God, but because you violate
His laws. What an incubus it would take from woman could she be educated to know that the pains
of maternity are no curse upon her kind. We know that among the Indians the squaws do not suffer
in childbirth. They will step aside from the ranks, even on the march, and return in a short
time to them with the new-born child. What an absurdity then, to suppose that only enlightened
Christian women are cursed. But one word of fact is worth a volume of philosophy; let me give
you some of my own experience. I am the mother of seven children. My girlhood was spent mostly
in the open air. I early imbibed the idea that a girl was just as good as a boy, and I carried
it out. I would walk five miles before breakfast or ride ten on horseback. After I was married
I wore my clothing sensibly. Their weight hung entirely on my shoulders. I never compressed
my body out of its natural shape. When my first four children were born, I suffered very little.
I then made up my mind that it was totally unnecessary for me to suffer at all; so I dressed
lightly, walked every day, lived as much as possible in the open air, ate no condiments or
spices, kept quiet, listened to music, looked at pictures, and took proper care of myself.
The night before the birth of the child I walked three miles. The child was born without a
particle of pain. I bathed it and dressed it, and it weighed ten and one-half pounds. That
same day I dined with the family. Everybody said I would surely die, but I never had a relapse
or a moment's inconvenience from it. I know this is not being delicate and refined, but if
you would be vigorous and healthy, in spite of the diseases of your ancestors, and your own
disregard of nature's laws, try it."

       *       *       *       *       *

SHALL PREGNANT WOMEN WORK?

1. OVER-WORKED MOTHERS.--Children born of over-worked mothers, are liable to a be dwarfed and
puny race. However, their chances are better than those of the children of inactive, dependent,
indolent mothers who have neither brain nor muscle to transmit to son or daughter. The truth
seems to be that excessive labor, with either body or mind, is alike injurious to both men
and women; and herein lies the sting of that old curse. This paragraph suggests all that need
be said on the question whether pregnant women should or should not labor.

2. FOOLISHLY IDLE.--At least it is certain that they should not be foolishly idle; and on the
other hand, it is equally certain that they should be relieved from painful laborious occupations
that exhaust and unfit them for happiness. Pleasant and useful physical and intellectual occupation,
however, will not only do no harm, but positive good.

3. THE BEST MAN AND THE BEST WOMAN.--The best man is he who can rear the best child, and the
best woman is she who can rear the best child. We very properly extol to the skies Harriet
Hosmer, the artist, for cutting in marble the statue of a Zenobia; how much more should we
sing praises to the man and the woman who bring into the world a noble boy or girl. The one
is a piece of lifeless beauty, the other a piece of life Including all beauty, all possibilities.

       *       *       *       *       *

WORDS FOR YOUNG MOTHERS.

The act of nursing is sometimes painful to the mother, especially before the habit is fully
established. The discomfort is greatly increased if the skin that covers the nipples is tender
and delicate. The suction pulls it off leaving them in a state in which the necessary pressure
of the child's lips cause intense agony. This can be prevented in a great measure, says Elizabeth
Robinson Scovil, in Ladies' Home Journal, if not entirely, by bathing the nipples twice a day
for six weeks before the confinement with powdered alum dissolved in alcohol; or salt dissolved
in brandy. If there is any symptom of the skin cracking when the child begins; to nurse, they
should be painted with a mixture of tannin and glycerine. This must be washed off before the
baby touches them and renewed when it leaves them. If they are very painful, the doctor will
probably order morphia added to the mixture. A rubber nipple shield to be put on at the time
of nursing, is a great relief. If the nipples are retracted or drawn inward, they can be drawn
out painlessly by filling a pint bottle with boiling water, emptying it and quickly applying
the mouth over the nipple. As the air in the bottle cools, it condenses, leaving a vacuum and
the nipple is pushed out by the air behind it.

When the milk accumulates or "cakes" in the breast in hard patches, they should be rubbed very
gently, from the base upwards, with warm camphorated oil. The rubbing should be the lightest,
most delicate stroking, avoiding pressure. If lumps appear at the base of the breast and it
is red swollen and painful, cloths wrung out of cold water should be applied and the doctor
sent for. While the breast is full and hard all over, not much apprehension need be felt. It
is when lumps appear that the physician should be notified, that he may, if possible, prevent
the formation of abscesses.

While a woman is nursing she should eat plenty of nourishing food--milk, oatmeal, cracked wheat,
and good juicy, fresh meat, boiled, roasted, or broiled, but not fried. Between each meal,
before going to bed, and once during the night, she should take a cup of cocoa, gruel made
with milk; good beef tea, mutton broth, or any warm, nutritive drink. Tea and coffee are to
be avoided. It is important to keep the digestion in order and the bowels should be carefully
regulated as a means to this end. If necessary, any of the laxative mineral waters can be used
for this purpose, or a teaspoonful of compound licorice powder taken at night. Powerful cathartic
medicines should be avoided because of their effect upon the baby. The child should be weaned
at nine months old, unless this time comes in very hot weather, or the infant is so delicate
that a change of food would be injurious. If the mother is not strong her nurseling will sometimes
thrive better upon artificial food than on its natural nourishment. By gradually lengthening
the interval between the nursing and feeding the child, when it is hungry, the weaning can
be accomplished without much trouble.

A young mother should wear warm underclothing, thick stockings and a flannel jacket over her
night dress, unless she is in the habit of wearing an under vest. If the body is not protected
by warm clothing there is an undue demand upon the nervous energy to keep up the vital heat,
and nerve force is wasted by the attempt to compel the system to do what ought to be done for
it by outside means.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW TO HAVE BEAUTIFUL CHILDREN.

1. PARENTAL INFLUENCE.--The art of having handsome children has been a question that has interested
the people of all ages and of all nationalities. There is no longer a question as to the influence
that parents may and do exert upon their offspring, and it is shown in other parts of this
book that beauty depends largely on the condition of health at the time of conception. It is
therefore of no little moment that parents should guard carefully their own health as well
as that of their children, that they may develop a vigorous constitution. There cannot be beauty
without good health.

2. MARRYING TOO EARLY.--We know that marriage at too early an age, or too late in life, is
apt to produce imperfectly developed children, both mentally and physically. The causes are
self-evident: A couple marrying too young, they lack maturity and consequently will impart
weakness to their offspring; while on the other hand persons marrying late in life fail to
find that normal condition which is conducive to the health and vigor of offspring.

3. CROSSING OF TEMPERAMENTS AND NATIONALITIES.--The Crossing of temperaments and nationalities
beautifies offspring. If young persons of different nationalities marry, their children under
proper hygienic laws are generally handsome and healthy. For instance, an American and German
or an Irish and German uniting in marriage, produces better looking children than those marrying
in the same nationality. Persons of different temperaments uniting in marriage, always produces
a good effect upon offspring.

4. THE PROPER TIME.--To obtain the best results, conception should take place only when both
parties are in the best physical condition. If either parent is in any way indisposed at the
time of conception the results will be seen in the health of the child. Many children brought
in the world with diseases or other infirmities stamped upon their feeble frames show the indiscretion
and ignorance of parents.

5. DURING PREGNANCY.--During pregnancy the mother should take time for self improvement and
cultivate an interest for admiring beautiful pictures or engravings which represent cheerful
and beautiful figures. Secure a few good books illustrating art, with some fine representations
of statues and other attractive pictures. The purchase of several illustrated an journals might
answer the purpose.

6. WHAT TO AVOID.--Pregnant mothers should avoid thinking of ugly people, or those marked by
any deformity or disease; avoid injury, fright and disease of any kind. Also avoid ungraceful
position and awkward attitude, but cultivate grace and beauty in herself. Avoid difficulty
with neighbors or other trouble.

7. GOOD CARE.--She should keep herself in good physical condition, and the system well nourished,
as a want of food always injures the child.

8. THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE MIND.--The mother should read suitable articles in newspapers or
good books, keep her mind occupied. If she cultivates a desire for intellectual improvement,
the same desire will be more or less manifested in the growth and development of the child.

