It was there that Gondrin--who is now present with us--behaved so well. He is the only one
now living of the pontooners who went down into the water that day and built the bridge on
which we crossed the river. The Russians still had some respect for the Grand Army, on account
of its past victories; but it was Gondrin and the pontooners who saved us, and [pointing at
Gondrin, who was looking at him with the fixed attention peculiar to the deaf] Gondrin is a
finished soldier and a soldier of honor, who is worthy of your highest esteem.

I saw the Emperor that day, standing motionless near the bridge, and never feeling the cold
at all. Was that natural, do you think? He was watching the destruction of his treasure, his
friends, his old Egyptian soldiers. It was the end of everything. Women, wagons, cannon--all
were being destroyed, demolished, ruined, wrecked! A few of the bravest guarded the eagles;
because the eagles, you understand, stood for France, for you, for the civil and military honor
that had to be kept unstained and that was not to be humbled by the cold.

We hardly ever got warm except near the Emperor. When he was in danger, we all ran to him--although
we were so nearly frozen that we would not have held out a hand to our dearest friend. They
say that he used to weep at night over his poor family of soldiers. Nobody but he and Frenchmen
could ever have pulled out of there. We did pull out, but it was with loss--terrible loss.
Our allies ate up all of our provisions, and then began the treachery which the Red Man had
foretold.

The blatherskites in Paris, who had kept quiet since the formation of the Imperial Guard, thought
that the Guard had finally perished. So they got up a conspiracy and hoodwinked the Prefect
of Police into an attempt to overthrow the Emperor. He heard of this and it worried him. When
he left us he said: "Good-by, boys. Guard the posts. I will come back to you."

After he had gone, things went from bad to worse. The generals lost their heads; and the marshals
quarreled with one another and did all sorts of foolish things, as was natural. Napoleon, who
was good to everybody, had fed them on gold until they had become as fat as pigs, and they
didn't want to do any more marching. This led to trouble, because many of them remained idle
in forts behind the army that was driving us back to France, and didn't even try to relieve
us by attacking the enemy in the rear.

The Emperor finally returned, bringing with him a lot of splendid recruits whom he had drilled
into regular war-dogs, ready to set their teeth into anything. He brought also a bourgeois
guard of honor, a fine troop, which melted away in battle like butter on a hot gridiron. In
spite of the bold front that we put on, everything went against us; although the army performed
feats of wonderful courage. Then came regular battles of mountains--nations against nations--at
Dresden, Lutzen, and Bautzen. Don't you ever forget that time, because it was then that Frenchmen
showed how wonderfully heroic they could be. A good grenadier, in those days, seldom lasted
more than six months. We always won, of course; but there in our rear were the English, stirring
up the nations to take sides against us. But we fought our way through this pack of nations
at last. Wherever Napoleon showed himself, we rushed; and whenever, on land or sea, he said,
"I wish to pass," we passed.

We finally got back to France; and many a poor foot-soldier was braced up by the air of his
native country, notwithstanding the hard times we had. As for myself, in particular, I may
say that it renewed my life.

It then became a question of defending the fatherland--our fair France--against all Europe.
They didn't like our laying down the law to the Russians, and our driving them back across
their borders, so that they couldn't devour us, as is the custom of the North. Those Northern
peoples are very greedy for the South, or at least that's what I've heard many generals say.
Then Napoleon saw arrayed against him his own father-in-law, his friends whom he had made kings,
and all the scoundrels whom he had put on thrones. Finally, in pursuance of orders from high
quarters, even Frenchmen, and allies in our own ranks, turned against us; as at the battle
of Leipsic. Common soldiers wouldn't have been mean enough to do that! Men who called themselves
princes broke their word three times a day.

Well, then came the invasion. Wherever Napoleon showed his lion face the enemy retreated; and
he worked more miracles in defending France than he had shown in conquering Italy, the East,
Spain, Europe, and Russia. He wanted to bury all the invaders in France, and thus teach them
to respect the country; so he let them come close to Paris, in order to swallow 'em all at
a gulp and rise to the height of his genius in a battle greater than all the others--a regular
mother of battles! But those cowardly Parisians were so afraid for their wretched skins and
their miserable shops that they opened the gates of the city. Then the good times ended and
the "ragusades" began. They fooled the Empress and hung white flags out of the palace windows.
Finally the very generals whom Napoleon had taken for his best friends deserted him and went
over to the Bourbons--of whom nobody had ever before heard. Then he bade us good-by at Fontainebleau.
"Soldiers!"

I can hear him, even now. We were all crying like regular babies, and the eagles and flags
were lowered as if at a funeral. And it was a funeral--the funeral of the Empire. His old soldiers,
once so hale and spruce, were little more than skeletons. Standing on the portico of his palace,
he said to us:

"Comrades! We have been beaten through treachery; but we shall all see one another again in
heaven, the country of the brave. Protect my child, whom I intrust to you. Long live Napoleon II!"

Like Jesus Christ before his last agony, he believed himself deserted by God and his star;
and in order that no one should see him conquered, it was his intention to die; but, although
he took poison enough to kill a whole regiment, it never hurt him at all--another proof, you
see, that he was more than man: he found himself immortal. As he felt sure of his business
after that, and knew that he was to be Emperor always, he went to a certain island for a while,
to study the natures of those people in Paris, who did not fail, of course, to do stupid things
without end.

While he was standing guard down there, the Chinese and those animals on the coast of Africa--Moors
and others, who are not at all easy to get along with--were so sure that he was something more
than man that they respected his tent, and said that to touch it would be to offend God. So
he reigned over the whole world, although those other fellows had sent him out of France.

Well, then, after a while he embarked again in the very same nut-shell of a boat that he had
left Egypt in, passed right under the bows of the English vessels, and set foot once more in
France. France acknowledged him; the sacred cuckoo flew from spire to spire; and all the people
cried, "Long live the Emperor!"

In this vicinity the enthusiasm for the Wonder of the Ages was most hearty. Dauphiny behaved
well; and it pleased me particularly to know that our own people here wept for joy when they
saw again his gray coat.

