"Thornton did not answer. He was provoked, but showed his anger only by his silence. We sauntered
back to the house in a different mood from that in which we had left it.

"August 4.--Thornton came into the library to-day with a letter from Eleanor. She cannot leave
her brother, and wrote to Thornton about some papers that she wished sent to her without delay.
They were in the drawer of the desk at which I was sitting. Thornton said he was in haste,
as he wished to prepare the packet for the next mail. I rose at once. In his hurry he knocked
the little japanned box on to the floor. Begging pardon for his awkwardness, he picked it up,
and looked at it a moment to assure himself that it had suffered no damage.

"'It is a curious little thing,' said he, 'and looks as if it were a hundred years old.'

"'It belonged once to my grandmother, and held pearl-powder and rouge,' said I.

"'And is used for the same purpose now?' inquired he.

"'Yes,' returned I, my cheek reddening a little. 'I was just putting some on as you entered.'

"'It must be very uncommon rouge,' remarked he, quietly fixing his eyes on me; 'it grows red
after it is put on, and must require much care in the use of it.'

"'I thought you were in a great hurry, Thornton, when you came in.'

"'And so I am';--and he began undoing and separating papers, but every few moments he would
steal a glance--a glance that made me feel uneasy--towards me, as I sat at the other window
busying myself with my needle.

"August 25.--I wish Eleanor would come home. I sometimes think I will go away; but to leave
Ashcroft now would imply a doubt of Thornton's honor, and impute thoughts to him which perhaps
have no existence but in my vanity.

"October 3.--Ah, why was I so foolish? Why did I not go when I saw the danger so clearly, instead
of cheating myself into the belief that there was none? Would that I had never come to Ashcroft,
or had had the courage to leave it! These last six weeks, I do not know, I cannot tell, how
they have been spent. Thornton was ever by my side, and I--did not wish him away. We sat this
afternoon on the lawn under the great ash-tree,--the one under which he sat reading Dante to
Eleanor the last day she was with us. The love which had burned in his eyes all day found utterance
at last, and flamed out in fiery, passionate words. He drew me towards him. His vehemence frightened
me, and I muttered something about Eleanor. It checked him for a moment, but, quickly recovering,
he spoke freely of himself and of her,--of the love which had existed between them,--a feeling
so feeble and so poor, compared to that which he felt for me, as to be unworthy of the name.
He entreated, he implored my love. I was silent. He bent over me, gazing into my face. There
was a traitor lurking in my heart, which looked out of my eyes, and spoke without my consent.
He understood that language but too well. I bent my eyes upon the ground,--his arm was around
my waist, his hand clasped mine, his lips approached my cheek. A shadow seemed suddenly to
come between me and the sun. I looked up and saw Eleanor, clad in mourning, standing before
us. I started at once to my feet, and, like the coward that I am, fled and left them together.
I ran down to the old hawthorn-tree, against which I leaned, panting and trembling. Yet, in
a few moments, ashamed of my weakness, I stole back to where I could see them unobserved. Eleanor
stood upon the same spot, calm and motionless. Thornton was speaking, but I was too far off
to hear more than the sound of his voice. When he had ended, he approached her, as if to bid
her adieu; but she passed him with a stately bow, and entered the hall-door. Thornton took
his way to the stables, and I soon heard the clattering of his horse's hoofs on the hard gravelled
road. When the sound died away in the distance, I stole into the house and crept up to my chamber.
How long I was there I could not tell; but when I heard the bell ring for tea, I washed my
face and smoothed my hair. I would not be so cowardly as to fear to see Eleanor again, and
perhaps it would be better for us both to meet in the presence of a third person.

"Mrs. Bickford was alone at the table. 'Miss Purcill would not come down tonight,--she was
fatigued with her journey.'

"The good lady strove to entertain me with her conversation, but, finding that I neither heard,
answered, nor ate, our meal was soon brought to a close. It is long past midnight. I have thought
till I am sick and giddy with thinking. I cannot sleep, and have been writing here to control
the wildness of my imaginings. I have been twice to Eleanor's chamber. The door is half ground-glass,
and I can see her black shadow as she walks to and fro across the room. She has been walking
so ever since she entered it.

"October 4.--What shall I do? Where shall I go? All night and all day Eleanor has walked her
chamber-floor. I have been to the door. I have knocked. I have called her by name. I have turned
the handle,--the door is locked. No answer comes to me,--nothing but the black shadow flitting
across the panes. I sat down by the threshold and burst into tears.

"Mrs. Bickford found me there. 'Do not grieve so, Miss Elizabeth,' said she, kindly. 'It is
dreadful, I know; but Miss Purcill walked the floor all night after her father died, and would
admit no one to her room. She will be better to-morrow.'

"I shook my head. Could I believe that grief for the dead, and not sorrow for the conduct of
the living, moved her thus, I should be happy. Then I could offer consolation and sympathy;
but now, if I saw her, what could I say? Pity, sorrow for her grief, would be but idle words,
which she would spurn with contempt,--and she would be right. There is but one thing left for
me,--I must go from Ashcroft; then, perhaps, she and Thornton--But no, it cannot be; so wide
asunder, they cannot come together again. And do I wish it? Is not his love as much mine now
as it ever was hers? Ah, how some words once spoken cannot be forgotten! Before me now is the
little picture of Hagar, which Eleanor had framed and hung in the library. Did she place it
before my eyes as a warning to me? In Hagar's fate I see my own; for even now I hear Eleanor
asking if the passion of a few hours is to thrust aside the love of long years. The bondmaid
will go ere she is driven out. But Thornton--I cannot, will not, see him again. He has written
to me to-day, saying that he cannot come here, and asking me to meet him at the well to-morrow.
By that time I shall be far on my way to Madge. He will wait for me, and I shall not come.
How can I leave him thus? He will believe me heartless and cruel. I grieve even now for his
pain and grief. He will think that I did not love, but only sported with him. How dearly I
love him words cannot tell; and I go that his way may be smoother, and that in my absence he
may find--peace at last. A little dried flower lies on the page that I turned. It is one of
those that grew in the well, that I wore on my bosom one day, that he might see and know it,
and chide me for having been there again. His chiding was sweeter to me than others' praise.
I will not be so unjust to myself. I will not go without one word. I jestingly told him once
I would leave a token for him on the stone in the well when I went away from Ashcroft. I will
put my journal there. He will see the box and remember it. He will learn that I have gone,
and will know that I love, but that I leave and renounce him."

       *       *       *       *       *

The remaining pages of the book were blank. Elizabeth Purcill's journal was ended. Bradford
was busy with conjectures. Why had not Thornton found and kept the journal intended for him?
Had it fallen at once to the bottom of the well, and lain there for years, while he waited
in vain for her coming or her token? Her departure had not brought Eleanor Purcill and Thornton
Lee together; for his aunt still remained unwedded, and he came every Sunday to the village
church, with a sweet matronly-faced woman on his arm, and two children by his side.

Bradford thrust the journal into his pocket, took up his fishing-rod and basket, and sauntered
towards the village. He thought he remembered the name of Elizabeth Purcill on a head-stone
in the church-yard. He opened the little wicket and went in. The setting sun threw the long
shadows of the head-stones across the thick, rank grass. The sounds of the village children
at play on the green came to his ear softened and mellowed by the distance.

He turned towards the spot where, year after year, the Purcills had been gathered,--those who
had died in their beds in their native town, and those who had perished in far-off climes,
and whose bones had been brought to moulder by the old church-wall. He found the stone, and,
bending down, read, "Elizabeth Purcill, died Oct. 5th, 18--, aged 19." Bradford opened the
journal and looked at the last date. She had died, then, the day after the journal was ended.
But how, and where?

He sat down on the flat stone which covered his grandfather, and turned over the pages again,
as if they could tell him more than he already knew. So absorbed was he, that he did not see
a woman who a few minutes afterwards knelt down before the same stone, and with a sickle began
to cut away the weeds and grass.

Bradford looked up at last, and, as the woman raised her head for an instant, saw that it was
Mrs. Bickford. He approached her and called her by name. She gave a little start, as she heard
his voice.

"Why, Master Bradford, who would have thought of seeing you here at this time?"

Bradford smiled. "Whose grave is this that you are taking such pains to clear?"

She pointed to the name with her sickle.

"Yes, I know all that that can tell me. But who was Elizabeth Purcill?--what relation was she
to me?--and how came she to die so young, and to be buried here?"

"Why do you think I should know?" she replied. "People often die young; and no matter where
the Purcills die, they all wish to come here at last;--that one died in Cuba,--that in France,--that
in Greece,--and that at sea." And she turned her hand towards them, as she spoke.

"But you do not care for their graves; look, how the grass and weeds nod over that tombstone;
and you would not clear this, unless you knew something about the girl that lies underneath it."

"It is an old story," said she, with a sigh, "and I can tell you but little of it." She laid
her sickle down on the cut grass and sat down by it.

"Elizabeth Purcill was the daughter of your grandfather's brother, and therefore your father's
cousin. Long as I have lived in the family, I never saw him; for he went to India, while a
young man, to seek a fortune, which was found too late to benefit either himself or his children.
Elizabeth, his eldest daughter, was sent home for her education, and lived first with one of
her kinsfolk, and then another, as her father's whims or their convenience dictated. You remember,
though so young, when your Aunt Eleanor came to your father's house on her way to your Uncle
Erasmus in his last illness?"

Bradford nodded.

"A little before that time Elizabeth Purcill came to Ashcroft. She was a pretty, lively girl,
and it was pleasant to see in our sober household one who had time to be idle and could laugh.
Your Aunt Eleanor was always a busy woman,--busier then than she is now,--and had no time for
mirth. Every servant in the house liked Miss Elizabeth for her sunny smile and her pleasant
ways. Shortly afterwards, Thornton Lee came home. He had been three years in Africa, and he
and your aunt were to be married in the autumn.

"When Miss Purcill went away, Mr. Lee remained, and came often to see Miss Elizabeth. She had
a winsome face, that few men could look upon and not love; and I sometimes thought, when I
saw them together, how much better she was suited to Mr. Lee than your Aunt Eleanor, and wondered
if he had not found it out himself. Your aunt was away a long time, and, by some mistake, the
letter, saying that she was coming home, did not reach us till the day after her arrival.

"It was a beautiful October afternoon. I had been gathering the grapes that grew on the garden
wall, and was carrying a basket of them to Miss Elizabeth, whom I had seen, half an hour before,
with Mr. Lee, on the lawn. As I was crossing the hall, Miss Purcill, dressed in deep mourning,
looking ghastly pale, entered the front door. I started as if I had seen a ghost, and dropped
my basket. Miss Eleanor passed me quickly and went up-stairs. I spoke to her. She did not answer,
but, entering her chamber, fastened the door behind her.

"I looked out of the window. No one was on the lawn; but presently I saw Mr. Lee coming out
of the stable, leading his horse. He mounted and was out of sight in an instant. Miss Elizabeth
was nowhere to be seen. What had happened I could not tell. I could only guess.

"Miss Elizabeth was the only one who came to tea, and her eyes were heavy and dull, and she
seemed like one in a dream. That night was a wretched one to both. When I went to the library
to see if the windows were fastened for the night, Miss Elizabeth sat by the smouldering fire
with her face buried in her hands. I shut the door softly and left her, and till I slept I
heard Miss Eleanor's steps across her chamber-floor.

"The day was no better than the night. Miss Purcill did not leave her room, and her cousin
wandered about the house, as if her thoughts would not let her rest. Once I found her in tears
at your aunt's door, and tried to console her; but she shook her head impatiently, as if I
could not understand the cause of her grief.

"The next morning, while I was dressing, my niece Sally came to me in great haste, saying that
Roger, the gardener, wished to see me at once. I hurried on my clothes and went down. I knew
by the man's face that something dreadful had happened; but when he told me that he had been
to the old well, and had found Miss Elizabeth lying dead at the bottom of it, I felt as if
I was stunned.

"I roused myself at last. I ran to Miss Purcill's door. I shook it violently and called her
by name. She came and opened the door in her night-dress. Somehow, I know not and cared not
how, for it seemed to me that she had something to do with all this, I told her that her Cousin
Elizabeth was lying dead at the bottom of the old well. She staggered and leaned against the
door like one who had received a heavy blow. For a moment I repented my roughness. But she
was soon herself again. She thrust her feet into her slippers, and, wrapping her dressing-gown
about her, went down-stairs, and gave directions, as calmly and collectedly as if she were
(Heaven help her!) ordering a dinner for the men--to bring the body home. Ah, me! I never shall
forget how the poor thing looked when the four men who bore the litter set it down on the library-floor.
A bruise on the temple showed where she had struck on the cruel stones. The hoarfrost, which
had turned into drops of dew, glittered among her soft brown curls."

The tears which had been gathering in Mrs. Bickford's eyes fell in large drops into her lap
as she went on.

"On the day of the funeral, she lay in the library, still and cold in her coffin. I had gathered
a few flowers, with which I was vainly trying to cheat death into looking more like life, by
placing them on her bosom and in her stiffened fingers. Miss Eleanor sat at the foot of the
coffin, almost as motionless as the form within it. I had finished my task and turned away,
when the door opened and Mr. Lee came in silently. A slight shudder went through him, as he
came to the coffin and bent over it. What a change had three days made in the man! Ten years
would not have taken so much youth and life from him and made him look so old and wan. He looked
upon her as a man who looks his last upon what he loved best in the world;--his whole soul
was in his eyes.

"I think he did not see Miss Eleanor till he was about to leave the room. She had not spoken,
and he was unconscious of her presence. He turned towards her and held out his hand; his lips
moved, but no words escaped them. I heard Miss Purcill's low, unfaltering answer to his unspoken
thoughts. She did not take his proffered hand, but said, 'Nothing can unite us again, Thornton,--not
even death.'

"His hand dropped by his side;--he quickly left the room, and never came to Ashcroft again.
When I went to take a last look of Miss Elizabeth, I saw that the white rose which I had placed
in her hand was gone;--he had taken it."

Mrs. Bickford paused. Her story was ended. In a few minutes she took up her sickle again, and
Bradford stood leaning against the head-stone till the grass was all cut on the grave. He had
no more questions to ask,--for the journal had told him more of the dead below, than Mrs. Bickford,
with all her love and sympathy, could do. She had fallen into the well, then, while endeavoring
to place the box on the stone. When Mrs. Bickford's task was done, she walked silently back
to Ashcroft with Bradford.

Late in the evening he was alone in the library with his Aunt Eleanor. The picture of Hagar,
now so full of interest to him, still hung on the wall, and the little desk was at the window
which looked out upon the lawn. Should he show the journal to his aunt, or keep it to himself?
Would Elizabeth Purcill wish her Cousin Eleanor to read her written words as she once read
her untold thoughts?

Wrapped up in his own musings, he started suddenly when Miss Purcill said to him, "Rosamond
tells me that you found a book to-day in the old well; what was it?"--and answered promptly,
"It was Elizabeth Purcill's journal."

It was the first time Eleanor had heard the name for years. She showed no signs of emotion.
"I should like to see it," said she; "give it to me."

Bradford had been brought up in such habits of obedience, that he never thought of disputing
his aunt's command. He drew the journal from his pocket and handed it to her without speaking.

"You have read it?" said she, fixing her keen eyes upon him.

"Yes."

She drew the lamp towards her and opened the book. The shade on the lamp kept the light from
her face; but had Bradford seen it, it would have told him no more of the thoughts beneath
it than the stone in the churchyard had told him of Elizabeth Purcill.

He watched her turning over the leaves slowly, and thought that her hand trembled a little
at the close. Those pages must have stirred many a memory and many a grief, as the wind shakes
the bare boughs of the trees, though blossom, fruit, and leaves have long since fallen.

She closed the book, and spoke at last:--"I think, Bradford, this book belongs rightfully but
to one person,--Mr. Thornton Lee. Shall I send it to him?"

Eleanor's question was uttered in a tone that seemed to admit of but one reply. Bradford assented.
If he might not keep the journal himself, he would rather Thornton Lee should have it than
his aunt.

The next day, Thornton Lee received a small packet, accompanied by a note which ran thus:--

"To do justice to the memory of one who, years ago, came between us, I send you this little
book, found in the old well yesterday. From it you will learn how she came by her death, and--how
much she loved you. ELEANOR PURCILL."

As Thornton Lee read the journal, his children climbed his knee and twined his gray curls around
their fingers, and his wife came and leaned sportively over his shoulder and looked at the
yellow leaves.

In some lives, as in some years, there is an after-summer; but in others, the hoar-frosts are
succeeded by the winter snow.

THE DEAD HOUSE.

  Here once my step was quickened,
    Here beckoned the opening door,
  And welcome thrilled from the threshold
    To the foot it had felt before.

  A glow came forth to meet me
    From the flame that laughed in the grate,
  And shadows a-dance on the ceiling
    Danced blither with mine for a mate.

  "I claim you, old friend," yawned the arm-chair,--
    "This corner, you know, is your seat."
  "Rest your slippers on me," beamed the fender,--
    "I brighten at touch of your feet."

  "We know the practised finger,"
    Said the books, "that seems like brain";
  And the shy page rustled the secret
    It had kept till I came again.

  Sang the pillow, "My down once quivered
    On nightingales' throats that flew
  Through moonlit gardens of Hafiz
    To gather quaint dreams for you."

  Ah, me, where the Past sowed heart's-ease,
    The Present plucks rue for us men!
  I come back: that scar unhealing
    Was not in the churchyard then.

  But, I think, the house is unaltered;
    I will go and beg to look
  At the rooms that were once familiar
    To my life as its bed to a brook.

  Unaltered! Alas for the sameness
    That makes the change but more!
  'Tis a dead man I see in the mirrors,
    'Tis his tread that chills the floor!

  To learn such a simple lesson
    Need I go to Paris and Rome,--
  That the many make a household,
    But only one the home?

  'Twas just a womanly presence,
    An influence unexprest,--
  But a rose she had worn on my grave-sod
    Were more than long life with the rest!

  'Twas a smile, 'twas a garment's rustle,
    'Twas nothing that I can phrase,--
  But the whole dumb dwelling grew conscious,
    And put on her looks and ways.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE AUTOCRAT OF THE BREAKFAST-TABLE.

EVERY MAN HIS OWN BOSWELL. Ma'am was right to better herself.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DOT AND LINE ALPHABET. But what if Comet has gone by? The compositors and editors had read
it. Your dispatch is noiselessly written in dark blue dots and lines.

       *       *       *       *       *

LITERARY NOTICES.

Études sur Pascal. Par M. VICTOR COUSIN. Cinqième Edition, revue et augmentée. Paris: 1857.
pp. 566. 8vo.

We render hearty thanks to M. Cousin for this new edition of a favorite work. No library which
contains Pascal's "Provinciales" and "Pensées" should be without it.

"Of all the monuments of the French language," says M. Cousin, in the Avant-propos to this
new edition, "none is more celebrated than the work 'Les Pensées,' and French literature possesses
no artist more consummate than Pascal. Do not expect to find in this young geometrician, so
soon consumed by disease and passion, the breadth, surface, and infinite variety of Bossuet,
who, supported by vast and uninterrupted study, rose and rose until he gained the loftiest
reaches of intellect and art, and commanded at pleasure every tone and every style. Pascal
did not fulfil all his destiny. Besides the mathematics and natural philosophy he knew scarcely
more than a little theology, and he barely passed through good society. It is true, Pascal
passed away from earth quickly; but during his short life he discerned glimpses of the beau
ideal, he attached himself to it with all his heart and soul and strength, and he never allowed
anything to leave his hands unless it bore its lively impress. So great was his passion for
perfection, that unchallenged tradition tells us he wrote the seventeenth 'Provinciale' thirteen
times over. 'Les Pensées' are merely fragments of the great work on which he consumed the last
years of his life; but these fragments sometimes present so finished a beauty, that we do not
know which most to admire, the grandeur and vigor of the sentiments and ideas, or the delicacy
and depth of the art."

This praise is unexaggerated. What a career was run by this genius! Discovering the science
of geometry at twelve years of age,--next inventing the arithmetical machine,--discovering
atmospheric pressure, while every philosopher was prating about "Nature's horror of a vacuum,"--inventing
the wheelbarrow, to divert his mind from the pains of the toothache, and succeeding,--inventing
the theory of probabilities,--establishing the first omnibuses that ever relieved the public,--then
writing the "Provinciales,"--dying at thirty-three, leaving behind him two small volumes (you
may carry them in your pocket) which are the unchallengeable title-deeds of his immortal fame,
the favorite works of Gibbon, Voltaire, Macaulay, and Cousin! Where else can so crowded and
so short a career be found?

It is scarcely possible to repress a smile in reading this work and discovering the patient
care with which M. Cousin avoids speaking of the "Provinciales." And it is strange to say (no
contemptible proof of the influence exercised by the Church of Rome, even when checked as it
is in France) that no decent edition of the "Provinciales" can be found in the French language.
While we possess M. Cousin's "Études sur Pascal," and M. Havet's edition of "Les Pensées,"
the only editions of "Les Provinciales" of recent date are the miserable publications of Charpentier
and the Didots. Editions of Voltaire and Rousseau are numerous, elaborate, and elegant; for
atheism is pardoned much more easily than abhorrence of the Jesuits.

The volume named at the head of this article contains a great many valuable documents relating
to Pascal and his family: all of Pascal's correspondence known to exist, including his celebrated
letter on the death of Étienne Pascal, his father, which is usually printed in "Les Pensées,"
being cut up into short sentences to fit it for that work, a large part of it being omitted;
his singular essay on Love; curious details concerning the De Roanner family; an essay on the
true text of the "Pensées"; a curious fac-simile of a page of that work; and a discussion (perhaps
M. Cousin would say a refutation) of Pascal's philosophy. But we must protest against the easy
manner in which M. Cousin wears his honors. When a book has reached its fifth edition and is
evidently destined to a good many more during the author's lifetime, he lies under an obligation
to place the new information he may have collected, and the additional thoughts which may have
occurred to him, during the intervals between the different editions, in a form more convenient
to the render than new prefaces and new notes. To master the information contained in this
work is no recreation, but a severe task, and one not to be accomplished except upon repeated
perusals of the book. This is the more inexcusable because M. Cousin is now free from all official
and professional cares; and it would involve the less labor to him, as he never writes, but
dictates all his compositions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Belle Brittan on a Tour; at Newport, and Here and There. New York: Derby & Jackson. 1858.

The compulsion of hunger, or the request of friends, was the excuse for the printing of sorry
books in Pope's time; and it has not become obsolete yet. The writer of the book, the title
of which we have given above, pleads the latter alternative as the occasion of this publication.
He says it was "a few friends" that preferred this request. It is unfortunate for him that
he had any so void of judgment and empty of taste. He thinks his Letters will "receive unjust
censure," as well as "undue praise." We think that he may relieve his mind of any such apprehension.
We cannot think his book at all likely to receive more dispraise than it richly merits. A more
discreditable one, not absolutely indictable, we hope, has seldom issued from the American press.

What motive the author had in assuming a female character, we know not. He certainly has been
very unfortunate in his female acquaintance, if he accurately imitates their tone of thought
and style of talk, in his letters. Should they happen to fall in the way of any foreigners,
we beg them to believe that this is not the way in which American women converse. But we think
that there can scarcely be a cockney so spoony as not to "spy a great peard under her muffler,"
and know that it is a man awkwardly masquerading in women's clothes. It is a libel on the women
of the country, to put such balderdash into the mouth of one who may be supposed to have been
finished at a fifth-rate boarding-school.

The letters are in the worst style of the "Own Correspondents" of third-rate papers. The "deadhead"
perks itself in your face at every turn, in flunkeyish gratitude for invitations, drinks, dinners,
and free passes,--from "the gentlemanly Lord Napier," down to "intelligent and gentlemanly"
railway-conductors, "gentlemanly and attentive" hotel-clerks, "gracious, gentlemanly, and gallant"
tavern-keepers, and their "lovely and accomplished brides." The soul of a footman is expressed
by the pen of an abigail,--and the one not a Humphrey Clinker, nor the other a Winifred Jenkins,--and
we are expected to admire the result as a good imitation of a lively, intelligent, well-bred
American young lady! We protest against the profanation.

The letters take a wide range of subject, and treat of "Shakspeare, taste, and the musical
glasses," in a vein that would have done no discredit to Lady Blarney and Miss Arabella Wilhelmina
Amelia Skeggs themselves. We might divert our readers with some specimens of criticism, or
opinion, did our limits admit of such entertainment. We can only inform them, on Belle Brittan's
authority, that worthy Dr. Charles Mackay, who suffers throughout the book from intermittent--nay,
chronic--attacks of puffery, is "one of the best living poets of England"; Mademoiselle Lamoureux,
the danseuse, is "better than Ellsler"; and pretty Mrs. John Wood, the lively soubrette of
the Boston Theatre, "possesses many of the rarest requisites of a great actress"! But these
are inanities which an inexperienced and half-taught girl might possibly utter in a familiar
letter. Not so, we trust, as to the belief expressed by Belle Brittan, in puffing "Jim Parton's,
Fanny Fern's Jim's," Life of Burr,--"more charming than a novel," because, as she implies,
of the successful libertinism of its hero,--when she says, speaking in the name of the maidens
of America, "We all, I suppose, must fall, like our first parents, when the hour of our temptation
comes"!

We should not have given the space we have bestowed on this worthless book, had it not been
made the occasion of newspaper puffs innumerable, recommending it to the public as something
worthy of their time and money. It is one of the worst signs of our time that a false good-nature
or imperfect taste should lead respectable papers to give currency to books destitute of all
merit, by the application to them of stereotyped phrases of commendation. These letters, without
a grace of style, without a flash of wit, without a genial ray of humor, deformed by coarse
breeding, vulgar self-conceit, and ignorant assumption, are bepraised as if they were fresh
from the mint of genius, and bore the image and superscription of Madame de Sévigné or Lady
Mary Wortley! This evil must be cured, or the daily press may find that it will cure itself.

We know nothing of the author of this book, excepting what he has here shown us of himself.
He may be capable of better things, and when they come before us, we shall rejoice to do them
justice. But we advise him, first of all, to discard his disguise, which becomes him as ill
as the gown of Mrs. Ford's "maid's aunt, the fat woman of Brentford," did Sir John Falstaff.
Or, if he will persist in playing the part of a woman, let him bear in mind that to be unmanly
is not necessarily to be womanly, and that it does not follow that one writes like a lady because
he does not write like a gentleman.

Appleton's Cyclopaedia of Drawing. Designed as a Text-book for the Mechanic, Architect, Engineer,
and Surveyor. Comprising Geometrical Projection, Mechanical, Architectural, and Topographical
Drawing, Perspective, and Isometry. Edited by W.E. WORTHEN. New York: D. Appleton & Co. 1857.

Mr. Worthen has given us in this book a most judicious and complete compilation of the best
works on the various branches of "practical" drawing,--having, with real thoughtfulness and
knowledge of what was needed in a handbook, condensed all the most important rules and directions
to be found in the works of MM. Le Brun and Armengaud on geometrical and mechanical drawing,
Ferguson and Garbett on architectural, and Williams, Gillespie, Smith, and Frome, on topographical
drawing.

It includes a very full chapter of geometrical definitions, a complete and minute description
of all the implements of mechanical drawing, and solutions of all the useful problems of geometrical
drawing,--a part of the work especially needed by practical mechanics, and hitherto to be found,
so far as we know, only in the form of results in the pocket-books of tables, or in the lengthy
and elaborate treatises of the heavy cyclopaedias, or works specially devoted to the topic.

There is an admirably condensed treatise on the mechanical powers, containing all the problems
of use in construction, with tables of the mechanical properties of materials. In mechanical
drawing there are directions for the most complicated drawings, going up to the last improvements
in the steam-engine. The same completeness of elementary instruction marks the section on architectural
drawing, though in this department we should have liked a fuller and better-chosen series of
examples, especially of domestic architecture,--an Italian villa planned by Mr. Upjohn being
the only really tasteful and appropriate dwelling-house given. The designs by Downing, rarely
much more than commodious residences with great neatness rather than artistic beauty, stand
very well for that style of building which consults comfort and attains it, but it is a misuse
of words to call them artistic. Picturesque they may be at times, but often the affectation
of external style puts Downing's designs into the category of Gothic follies and Grecian villanies,
in which the outside gives the lie to the inside,--emulating in wood the forms of stone, giving
to cottages on whose roof snow will never lie three inches deep all the pitch a Swiss châlet
would need. We are especially sorry to see a plate of Thomas's house in Fifth Avenue, New York,--the
most absurd and ludicrous pile of building material which can be found on the avenue,--and
to find such evidence of taste as is shown by the editor's commendation of it as "uniting richness
and grandeur of effect," "admirably suited," etc. Mr. Worthen, however, generally abstains
from much expression of opinion as to styles or the respective merits of works.

