Descendants of Judas Iscariot (Vol. viii., p. 56.).--There is a collection of traditions as
to this person in extracts I have among my notes, which perhaps you may think fit to give as
a reply to MR. CREED'S Query. It runs as follows:

    "On dit dans l'Anjou et dans le Maine que Judas Iscariot est né à
    Sablé; là-dessus on a fait ce vers:

     'Perfidus Judæus Sabloliensis erat.'

    "Les Bretons disent de même qu'il est né au Normandie entre Caen et
    Rouen, et à ce propos ils recitent ces vers.

             'Judas étoit Normand,
                  Tout le monde le dit--
              Entre Caen et Rouen,
                  Ce malheureux naquit.
      Il vendit son Seigneur pour trente mares contants.
      Au diable soient tous les Normands.'

    "On dit de même sans raison que Judas avoit demeuré à Corfou, et qu'il
    y est né. Pietro della Valle rapporte dans ses Voyages qu'étant à
    Corfou on lui montra par rareté un homme que ceux du pays assuroient
    être de la race du traître Judas--quoiqu'il le niât. C'est un bruit qui
    court depuis long tems en cette contrée, sans qu'on en sache la cause
    ni l'origine. Le peuple de la ville de Ptolemaïs (autrement de l'Acre)
    disoit de même sans raison que dans une tour de cette ville on avoit
    fabriqué les trente deniers pour lesquelles Judas avoit vendu nôtre
    Seigneur, et pour cela ils appelloient cette tour la Tour Maudite."

This is taken from the second volume of Menagiana, p. 232.

J. H. P. LERESCHE.

Manchester.

Milton's Widow (Vol. viii., p. 12.).--The information once promised by your correspondent CRANMORE
still seems very desirable, because the statements of your correspondent MR. HUGHES are not
reconcilable with two letters given in Mr. Hunter's very interesting historical tract on Milton,
pages 37-8., to which tract I beg to refer MR. HUGHES, who may not have seen it. These letters
clearly show that Richard Minshull, the writer of them, had only two aunts, neither of whom
could have been Mrs. Milton, as she must have been if she was the daughter of the writer's
grandfather, Randall Minshull. Probably this Elizabeth died in infancy, which the Wistaston
parish register may show, and which register would perhaps also show (supposing Milton took
his wife from Wistaston) the wanting marriage; or if Mrs. Milton was of the Stoke-Minshull
family, that parish register would most likely {135} disclose his third marriage, which certainly
did not take place sooner than 1662.

GARLICHITHE.

Whitaker's Ingenious Earl (Vol. viii., p. 9.).--It was a frequent saying of Lord Stanhope's,
that he had taught law to the Lord Chancellor, and divinity to the Bishops; and this saying
gave rise to a caricature, where his lordship is seated acting the schoolmaster with a rod
in his hand.

E. H.

Are White Cats deaf? (Vol. vii., p. 331.).--In looking up your Numbers for April, I observe
a Minor Query signed SHIRLEY HIBBERD, in which your querist states that in all white cats stupidity
seemed to accompany the deafness, and inquires whether any instance can be given of a white
cat possessing the function of hearing in anything like perfection.

I am myself possessed of a white cat which, at the advanced age of upwards of seventeen years,
still retains its hearing to great perfection, and is remarkably intelligent and devoted, more
so than cats are usually given credit for. Its affection for persons is, indeed, more like
that of a dog than of a cat. It is a half-bred Persian cat, and its eyes are perfectly blue,
with round pupils, not elongated as those of cats usually are. It occasionally suffers from
irritation in the ears, but this has not at all resulted in deafness.

H.

Consecrated Roses (Vol. vii., pp. 407. 480.; Vol. viii., p. 38.).--From the communication of
P. P. P. it seems that the origin of the consecration of the rose dates so far back as 1049,
and was "en reconnaissance" of a singular privilege granted to the abbey of St. Croix. Can
your correspondent refer to any account of the origin of the consecration or blessing of the
sword, cap, or keys?

G.

The Reformed Faith (Vol. vii., p. 359.).--I must protest against this term being applied to
the system which Henry VIII. set up on his rejecting the papal supremacy, which on almost every
point but that one was pure Popery, and for refusing to conform to which he burned Protestants
and Roman Catholics at the same pile. It suited Cobbett (in his History of the Reformation),
and those controversialists who use him as their text-book, to confound this system with the
doctrine of the existing Church of England, but it is to be regretted that any inadvertence
should have caused the use of similar language in your pages.

J. S. WARDEN.

House-marks (Vol. vii., p. 594.).--It appears to me that the house-marks he alluded to may
be traced in what are called merchants' marks, still employed in marking bales of wool, cotton,
&c., and which are found on tombstones in our old churches, incised in the slab during the
sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, and which till lately puzzled the heralds. They were borne
by merchants who had no arms.

E. G. BALLARD.

Trash (Vol. vii., p. 566.).--The late Mr. Scatchard, of Morley, near Leeds, speaking in Hone's
Table Book of the Yorkshire custom of trashing, or throwing an old shoe for luck over a wedding
party, says:

    "Although it is true that an old shoe is to this day called 'a trash,'
    yet it did not, certainly, give the name to the nuisance. To 'trash'
    originally signified to clog, encumber, or impede the progress of any
    one (see Todd's Johnson); and, agreeably to this explanation, we find
    the rope tied by sportsmen round the necks of fleet pointers to tire
    them well, and check their speed, is hereabouts universally called
    'trash cord,' or 'dog trash.' A few miles distant from Morley, west of
    Leeds, the 'Boggart' or 'Barguest,' the Yorkshire Brownie is called by
    the people the Gui-trash, or Ghei-trash, the usual description of
    which is invariably that of a shaggy dog or other animal, encumbered
    with a chain round its neck, which is heard to rattle in its movements.
    I have heard the common people in Yorkshire say, that they 'have been
    trashing about all day;' using it in the sense of having had a tiring
    walk or day's work.

    "East of Leeds the 'Boggart' is called the Padfoot."

G. P.

Adamsoniana (Vol. vii., p. 500.).--Michel Adanson (not Adamson), who has left his name to the
gigantic Baobab tree of Senegal (Adansonia digitata), and his memory to all who appreciate
the advantages of a natural classification of plants--for which Jussieu was indebted to him--was
the son of a gentleman, who after firmly attaching himself to the Stuarts, left Scotland and
entered the service of the Archbishop of Aix. The Encyclopædia Britannica, and, I imagine,
almost all biographical dictionaries and similar works, contain notices of him. His devoted
life has deserved a more lengthened chronicle.

SELEUCUS.

Your correspondent E. H. A., who inquires respecting the family of Michel Adamson, or Michael
Adamson, is informed that in France, the country of his birth, the name is invariably written
"Adanson;" while the author of Fanny of Caernarvon, or the War of the Roses, is described as
"John Adamson." Both names are pronounced alike in French; but the difference of spelling would
seem adverse to the supposition that the family of the botanist was of Scottish extraction.

HENRY H. BREEN.

St. Lucia.

Portrait of Cromwell (Vol. viii., p. 55.).--The portrait inquired after by MR. RIX is at the
British Museum. Being placed over the cases in the long gallery of natural history, it is extremely
difficult to be seen.

JOHN BRUCE.

{136}

Burke's "Mighty Boar of the Forest" (Vol. iii., p. 493.; Vol. iv., p. 391.).--It is not, I
hope, too late to notice that Burke's description of Junius is an allusion neither to the Iliad,
xiii. 471., nor to Psalm lxxx. 8-13., but to the Iliad, xvii. 280-284. I cannot resist quoting
the lines containing the simile, at once for their applicability and their own innate beauty:

 "[Greek: Ithusen de dia promachôn, sui eikelos alkên]
  [Greek: Kapriôi, host' en oressi kunas thalerous t' aizêous]
  [Greek: Rhêidiôs ekedassen, elixamenos dia bêssas.]
  [Greek: Ôs huios Telamônos]."

W. FRASER.

Tor-Mohun.

"Amentium haud Amantium" (Vol. vii., p. 595.).--The following English translation may be considered
a tolerably close approximation to the alliteration of the original: "Of dotards not of the
doting." It is found in the Dublin edition of Terence, published by J. A. Phillips, 1845.

C. T. R.

Mr. Phillips, in his edition, proposes as a translation of this passage, "Of dotards, not of
the doting." Whatever may be its merits in other respects, it is at all events a more perfect
alliteration than the other attempts which have been recorded in "N. & Q."

ERICA.

Warwick.

When I was at school I used to translate the phrase "Amentium haud amantium" (Ter. Andr., i.
3. 13.) "Lunatics, not lovers." Perhaps that may satisfy FIDUS INTERPRES.

[Pi]. [Beta].

A friend of mine once rendered this "Lubbers, not lovers."

P. J. F. GANTILLON, B.A.

Talleyrand's Maxim (Vol. vi., p. 575.; Vol. vii., p. 487.).--Young's lines, to which Z. E.
R. refers, are:

 "Where Nature's end of language is declined,
  And men talk only to conceal their mind."

With less piquancy, but not without the germ of the same idea, Dean Moss (ob. 1729), in his
sermon Of the Nature and Properties of Christian Humility, says:

    "Gesture is an artificial thing: men may stoop and cringe, and bow
    popularly low, and yet have ambitious designs in their heads. And
    speech is not always the just interpreter of the mind: men may use a
    condescending style, and yet swell inwardly with big thoughts of
    themselves."--Sermons, &c., 1737, vol. vii. p. 402.

COWGILL.

English Bishops deprived by Queen Elizabeth (Vol. vii., pp. 260. 344. 509.).--The following
particulars concerning one of the Marian Bishops are at A. S. A.'s service. Cuthbert Scot,
D.D., sometime student, and, in 1553, Master of Christ's Church College, Cambridge, was made
Vice-Chancellor of that University in 1554-5; and had the temporalities of the See of Chester
handed to him by Queen Mary in 1556. He was one of Cardinal Pole's delegates to the University
of Cambridge, and was concerned in most of the political movements of the day. He, and four
other bishops, with as many divines, undertook to defend the principles and practices of the
Romish Church against an equal number of Reformed divines. On the 4th of April he was confined,
either in the Fleet Prison or the Tower, for abusive language towards Queen Elizabeth; but
having by some means or other escaped from durance, he retired to Louvain, where he died, according
to Rymer's Foedera, about 1560.

T. HUGHES.

Chester.

Gloves at Fairs (Vol. vii., passim.).--To the list of markets at which a glove was, or is,
hung out, may be added Newport, in the Isle of Wight. But a Query naturally springs out of
such a note, and I would ask, Why did a glove indicate that parties frequenting the market
were exempt from arrest? What was the glove an emblem of?

W. D--N.

As the following extract from Gorr's Liverpool Directory appears to bear upon the point, and
as it does not seem to have yet attracted the attention of any of your correspondents, I beg
to forward it:--

    "Its (i.e. Liverpool's) fair-days are 25th July and 11th Nov. Ten
    days before and ten days after each fair-day, a hand is exhibited in
    front of the Town-hall, which denotes protection; during which time no
    person coming to or going from the town on business connected with the
    fair can be arrested for debt within its liberty."

I have myself frequently observed the "hand," although I could not discover any appearance
of a fair being held.

R.

St. Dominic (Vol. vii., p. 356.).--Your correspondent BOOKWORM will find in any chronology
a very satisfactory reason why Machiavelli could not reply to the summons of Benedict XIV.,
unless, indeed, the Pope had made use of "the power of the keys," to call him up for a brief
space to satisfy his curiosity.

J. S. WARDEN.

Names of Plants (Vol. viii., p. 37.).--Ale-hoof means useful in, or to, ale; Ground-ivy having
been used in brewing before the introduction of hops. "The women of our northern parts" (says
John Gerard), "especially about Wales or Cheshire, do tunne the herbe Ale-hoof into their ale
... being tunned up in ale and drunke, it also purgeth the head from rhumaticke humours flowing
from the brain." From the aforesaid tunning, it was also called Tun-hoof (World of Words);
and in Gerard, Tune-hoof. {137}

Considering what was meant by Lady in the names of plants, we should refrain from supposing
that Neottia spiralis was called the Lady-traces "sensu obsc.," even if those who are more
skilled in such matters than I am can detect such a sense. I cannot learn what a lady's traces
are; but I suspect plaitings of her hair to be meant. "Upon the spiral sort," says Gerard,
"are placed certaine small white flowers, trace fashion," while other sorts grow, he says,
"spike fashion," or "not trace fashion." Whence I infer, that in his day trace conveyed the
idea of spiral.

A. N.

Specimens of Foreign English (Vol. iii. passim.).--I have copied the following from the label
on a bottle of liqueur, manufactured at Marseilles by "L. Noilly fils et C^{ie}." The English
will be best understood by being placed in juxtaposition with the original French:

     "Le Vermouth

    est un vin blanc légèrement amer, parfumé avec des plantes aromatiques
    bienfaisantes.

    "Cette boisson est tonique, stimulante, fébrifuge et astringente: prise
    avec de l'eau elle est apéritive et raffraichissante: elle est aussi un
    puissant préservatif contre les fièvres et la dyssenterie, maladies si
    fréquentes dans les pays chauds, pour lesquels elle a été
    particulièrement composée."

     "The Wermouth

    is a brightly bitter and perfumed with aromatical and good vegetables
    white wine.

    "This is tonic, stimulant, febrifuge and costive drinking; mixed with
    water it is aperitive, refreshing, and also a powerful preservative of
    fivers and bloody-flux; those latters are very usual in warmth
    countries, and of course that liquor has just been particularly made up
    for that occasion."

HENRY H. BREEN.

St. Lucia.

Blanco White (Vol. vii., pp. 404. 486.).--Your correspondent H. C. K. is right in his impression
that the sonnet commencing

    "Mysterious Night! when our first parents knew," &c.

was written by Blanco White. See his Life (3 vols., Chapman, 1845), vol. iii. p. 48.

J. K. R. W.

Pistols (Vol. viii., p. 7.).--In Strype's Life of Sir Thomas Smith, Works, Oxon. 1821, mention
is made of a statute or proclamation by the Queen in the year 1575, which refers to that of
33 Hen. VIII. c. 6., alluded to by your correspondent J. F. M., and in which the words pistol
and pistolet are introduced:

    "The Queen calling to mind how unseemly a thing it was, in so quiet and
    peaceable a realm, to have men so armed; ... did charge and command all
    her subjects, of what estate or degree soever they were, that in no
    wise, in their journeying, going, or riding, they carried about them
    privily or openly any dag, or pistol, or any other harquebuse, gun, or
    such weapon for fire, under the length expressed by the statute made by
    the Queen's most noble father.... [Excepting however] noblemen and such
    known gentlemen, which were without spot or doubt of evil behaviour, if
    they carried dags or pistolets about them in their journeys, openly, at
    their saddle bows," &c.

Here the dag or pistolet seems to answer to our "revolvers," and the pistol to our larger horse-pistol.

H. C. K.

---- Rectory, Hereford.

Passage of Thucydides on the Greek Factions (Vol. viii., p. 44.).--If L., or any of your readers,
will take the trouble to compare the passage quoted, and the one referred to by him, in the
following translation of Smith, with Sir A. Alison's supposititious quotation[7] (Vol. vii.,
p. 594.), they will find that my inquiry is still unanswered. The passage quoted by L. in Greek
is, according to Smith:

    "Prudent consideration, to be specious cowardice; modesty, the disguise
    of effeminacy; and being wise in everything, to be good for nothing."

The passage not quoted, but referred to by L., is:

    "He who succeeded in a roguish scheme was wise; and he who suspected
    such practices in others was still a more able genius."--Vol. i. book
    iii. p. 281. 4to.: London, 1753.

In this "counterfeit presentment of two brothers," L. may discern a family likeness; but my
inquiry was for the identical passage, "sword and poniard" included.

If L. desires to find Greek authority for the general sentiment only, I would refer him to
passages, equally to Sir A. Alison's purpose, in Thucydides, iii. 83., viii. 89.; Herodotus,
iii. 81.; Plato's Republic, viii. 11., and Aristotle's Politics, v. 6. 9. I beg to thank L.
for his attempt, although unsuccessful.

T. J. BUCKTON.

Birmingham.

[Footnote 7: Europe, vol. ix. p. 397., 12mo.]

The earliest Mention of the Word "Party" (Vol. vii., p. 247.).--In a choice volume, printed
by "Ihon Day, dwelling over Aldersgate, beneath St. Martines," 1568, I find the word occurring
thus:

    "The party must in any place see to himselfe, and seeke to wipe theyr
    noses by a shorte aunswere."--A Discovery and playne Declaration of
    the Holy Inquisition of Spayne, fol. 10.

Permit me to attach a Query to this. Am I right in considering the above-mentioned book as
rare? I do so on the assumption that "Ihon Day" is the Day of black-letter rarity.

R. C. WARDE.

Kidderminster.

{138}

Creole (Vol. vii., p. 381.).--It is curious to observe how differently this word is applied
by different nations. The English apply it to white children born in the West Indies; the French,
I believe, exclusively to the mixed races; and the Spanish and Portuguese to the blacks born
in their colonies, never to whites. The latter, I think, is the true and original meaning,
as its primary signification is a home-bred slave (from "criar," to bring up, to nurse), as
distinguished from an imported or purchased one.

J. S. WARDEN.

       *       *       *       *       *

Miscellaneous.

NOTES ON BOOKS, ETC.

We have before us a little volume by Mr. Willich, the able Actuary of the University Life Assurance
Society, entitled Popular Tables arranged in a new Form, giving Information at Sight for ascertaining,
according to the Carlisle Table of Mortality, the Value of Lifehold, Leasehold, and Church
Property, Renewal Fines, &c., the Public Funds, Annual Average Price and Interest on Consols
from 1731 to 1851; also various interesting and useful Tables, equally adapted to the Office
and the Library Table. Ample as is this title-page, it really gives but an imperfect notion
of the varied contents of this useful library and writing-desk companion. For instance, Table
VIII. of the Miscellaneous Tables gives the average price of Consols, with the average rate
of interest, from 1731 to 1851; but this not only shows when Consols were highest and when
lowest, but also what Administration was then in power, and the chief events of each year.
We give this as one instance of the vast amount of curious information here combined; and we
would point out to historical and geographical students the notices of Chinese Chronology in
the preface, and the Tables of Ancient and Modern Itinerary Measures, as parts of the work
especially deserving of their attention. In short, Mr. Willich's Popular Tables form one of
those useful volumes in which masses of scattered information are concentrated in such a way
as to render the book indispensable to all who have once tested its utility.

Mormonism, its History, Doctrines, and Practices, by the Rev. W. Sparrow Simpson, is a small
pamphlet containing the substance of two lectures on this pestilent heresy, delivered by the
author before the Kennington Branch of the Church of England Young Men's Society, and is worth
the attention of those who wish to know something of this now wide-spread mania.

On the Custom of Borough-English in the County of Sussex, by George R. Corner, Esq. This well-considered
paper on a very curious custom owes its origin, we believe, to a Query in our columns. We wish
all questions agitated in "N. & Q." were as well illustrated as this has been by the learning
and ingenuity of Mr. Corner.

A Narrative of Practical Experiments proving to Demonstration the Discovery of Water, Coals,
and Minerals in the Earth by means of the Dowsing Fork or Divining Rod, &c., collected, reported,
and edited by Francis Phippen. A curious little pamphlet on a fact in Natural Philosophy, which
we believe no philosopher can either understand or account for.

SERIALS RECEIVED.--Murray's Railway Reading: History as a Condition of Social Progress, by
Samuel Lucas. An able lecture on an interesting subject.--The Traveller's Library, No. 46.:
Twenty Years in the Philippines, by De la Gironière. One of the best numbers of this valuable
series.--Cyclopædia Bibliographica, Part XI., August. This eleventh Part of Mr. Darling's useful
Catalogue extends from James Ibbetson to Bernard Lamy.--Archæologia Cambrensis, New Series,
No. XV.: containing, among other papers of interest to the inhabitants of the principality,
one on the arms of Owen Glendwr, by the accomplished antiquary to whom our readers were indebted
for a paper on the same subject in our own columns.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES WANTED TO PURCHASE.

  SOWERBY'S ENGLISH BOTANY, with or without Supplementary Volumes.
  DUGDALE'S ENGLAND AND WALES, Vol. VIII. London, L. Tallis.
  LINGARD'S HISTORY OF ENGLAND. Second Edition, 1823, 9th and following
      Volumes, in Boards.
  LONG'S HISTORY OF JAMAICA.
  LIFE OF THE REV. ISAAC MILLES. 1721.
  SIR THOMAS HERBERT'S THRENODIA CAROLINA: or, Last Days of Charles I. Old
      Edition, and that of 1813 by Nicol.
  SIR THOMAS HERBERT'S TRAVELS IN ASIA AND AFRICA. Folio.
  LETTERS OF THE HERBERT FAMILY.
  BISHOP MOSLEY'S VINDICATION. 4to. 1683.
  LIFE OF ADMIRAL BLAKE, written by a Gentleman bred in his Family. London.
      12mo. With Portrait by Fourdrinier.
  OSWALDI CROLLII OPERA. Genevæ, 1635. 12mo.
  UNHEARD-OF CURIOSITIES, translated by Chilmead. London, 1650. 12mo.
  BEAUMONT'S PSYCHE. Second Edition. Camb. 1702. fol.
  MEMOIRS OF THE ROSE, by Mr. John Holland. 1 Vol. 12mo. 1824.
  LITERARY GAZETTE, 1834 to 1845.
  ATHENÆUM, commencement to 1835.
  A NARRATIVE OF THE HOLY LIFE AND HAPPY DEATH OF MR. JOHN ANGIER. London,
      1685.
  MOORE'S MELODIES. 15th Edition.
  WOOD'S ATHENÆ OXONIENSES (ed. Bliss). 4 vols. 4to. 1813-20.
  THE COMPLAYNTS OF SCOTLAND. 8vo. Edited by Leyden. 1804.
  SHAKSPEARE'S PLAYS. Vol. V. of Johnson and Steevens's edition, in 15
      vols. 8vo. 1739.

MR. G. FURRIAN's offer is declined with thanks.

