Contenting myself with a hasty perusal of the great work on painting which the academy forms,
and which it had taken so many ages and so many various masters to produce, I returned again
to the square of St Mark. Doves in thousands were assembled on the spot, hovering on wing at
the windows of the houses, or covering the pavement below, at the risk, as it seemed, of being
trodden upon by the passengers. I inquired at my companion what this meant. He told me that
a rich old gentleman by last will and testament had bequeathed a certain sum to be expended
in feeding these fowls, and that, duly as the great clock in the Gothic tower struck two, a
certain quantity of corn was every day thrown from a window in the piazza. Every dove in the
"Republic" is punctual to a minute. There doves have come to acquire a sort of sacred character,
and it would be about as hazardous to kill a dove in Venice, as of old a cat in Egypt. We wish
some one would do as much for the beggars, which are yet more numerous, and who know no more,
when they get up in the morning, where they are to be fed, than do the fowls of heaven. Trade
there is none; "to dig," they have no land, and, even if they had, they are too indolent; they
want, too, the dove's wing to fly away to some happier country. Their seas have shut them in;
their marble city is but a splendid prison. The story of Venice is that of Tyre over again,--her
wealth, her glory, her luxuriousness, and now her doom. But we must leave her. Bidding adieu,
on the stairs of St Mark, to the partner of the day's explorations, with a regret which those
only can understand who have had the good fortune to meet an intelligent and estimable companion
in a foreign land, I leaped into a gondola, and glided away, leaving Venice sitting in silent
melancholy beauty amid her tideless seas.

Traversing again the long bridge over the Lagunes, and the flat country beyond, covered with
memorials of decay in the shape of dilapidated villas, and crossing the full-volumed Brenta,
rolling on within its lofty embankments, I sighted the fine Tyrolean Alps on the right, and,
after a run of twenty-four miles, the gray towers of Padua, at about a mile's distance from
the railway, on the left.

Poor Padua! Who could enter it without weeping almost. Of all the wretched and ruinous places
I ever saw, this is the most wretched and ruinous,--hopelessly, incurably ruinous. Padua does,
indeed, look imposing at a little distance. Its fine dome, its numerous towers, the large vine-stocks
which are rooted in its soil, the air of vast fertility which is spread over the landscape,
and the halo of former glory which, cloud-like, rests above it, consort well with one's preconceived
ideas of this once illustrious seat of learning, which even the youth of our own land were
wont to frequent; but enter it,--alas the dismal sight!--ruins, filth, ignorance, poverty,
on every hand. The streets are narrow and gloomy, from being lined with heavy and dark arcades;
the houses, which are large, and bear marks of former opulence, are standing in many instances
untenanted. Not a few stately mansions have been converted into stables, or carriers' sheds,
or are simply naked walls, which the dogs of the city, or other creatures, make their den.
The inhabitants, pale, emaciated, and wrapt in huge cloaks, wander through the streets like
ghosts. Were Padua a heap of ruins, without a single human being on or near its site, its desolation
would be less affecting. An unbearable melancholy sat down upon me the moment I entered it,
and the recollection oppresses me at the distance of three years.

In the midst of all this ruin and poverty, there rise I know not how many duomos and churches,
with fine cupolas and towers, as if they meant to mock the misery upon which they look. They
are the repositories of vast wealth, in the shape of silver lamps, votive offerings, paintings,
and marbles. To appropriate a penny of that treasure in behalf of the wretched beings who swarm
unfed and untaught in their neighbourhood, would bring down upon Padua the terrible ire of
their great god St Antony. He is there known as "Il Santo" (the saint), and has a gorgeous
temple erected in his honour, crowned with not less than eight cupolas, and illuminated day
and night by golden lamps and silver candlesticks, which burn continually before his shrine.
"There are narrow clefts in the monument that stands over him," says Addison, "where good Catholics
rub their beads, and smell his bones, which they say have in them a natural perfume, though
very like apoplectic balsam; and, what would make one suspect that they rub the marble with
it, it is observed that the scent is stronger in the morning than at night." Were the precious
metals and the costly marbles which are stored up in this church transmuted into current coin,
the whole province of Padua might be supplied with ploughs and other needful implements of
agriculture. But it is better that nature alone should cultivate their fields, and that the
Paduans should eat only what she is pleased to provide for them, than that, by robbing the
shrine of St Antony, they should forfeit the good esteem of so powerful a patron, "the thrice
holy Antony of Padua; the powerful curer of leprosy, tremendous driver away of devils, restorer
of limbs, stupendous discoverer of lost things, great and wonderful defender from all dangers."

The miracles and great deeds of "the saint" are recorded on the tablets and bas-reliefs of
the church. His most memorable exploit was his "preaching to an assembly of fishes," whom,
"when the heretics would not regard his preaching," says his biographer, "he called together,
in the name of God, to hear his holy Word." The congregation and the sermon were both extraordinary;
and, if any reader is curious to see what a saint could have to say to a congregation of fishes,
he will find the oration quoted ad longam in "Addison's Travels." The mule on which this great
man rode was nearly as remarkable as his master. With a devotion worthy of the mule of St Antony,
he left his hay, after a long fast, to be present at mass. The modern Paduans, from what I
saw of them, fast quite as oft and as long as Antony's mule; whether they are equally punctual
at mass I do not know.

My stay in Padua extended only from four in the afternoon till nine at night. The hours wore
heavily, and I sought for a restaurant where I might dine. I was fortunate enough at length
to discover a vast hall, or shed I should rather say, which was used as a restaurant. Some
rich and noble Paduan had called it his in other days; now it received as guests the courier
and the wayfarer. Its massive walls were quite naked, and enclosed an apartment so spacious,
that its extremities were lost in darkness. Some dozen of small tables, all ready for dinner
being served upon them, occupied the floor; and some three or four persons were seated at dinner.
I took my seat at one of the tables, and was instantly served with capillini soup, and the
usual et ceteras. I made a good repast, despite the haunted look of the chamber. On the conclusion
of my dinner I repaired to the market-place, and, till the hour of diligence should arrive,
I began pacing the pavement beneath the shadow of the town-hall, which looks as if it had been
built as a kind of anticipation of the crystal palace, and the roof of which is said to be
the largest unsupported by pillars in the world. It covers--so the Paduans believe--the bones
of Livy, who is claimed as a native of Padua. It was here Petrarch died, which has given occasion
to Lazzarini to join together the cradle of the historian and the tomb of the poet, in the
following lines addressed to Padua:--

 Here was he born whose lasting page displays
   Rome's brightest triumphs, and who painted best;
   Fit style for heroes, nor to shun the test,
   Though Grecian art should vie, and Attic lays.
 And here thy tuneful swan, Arezzo lies,
   Who gave his Laura deathless name; than whom
   No bard with sweeter grace has poured the song.
 O, happy seat! O, favoured by the skies!
   What store and store is thine, to whom belong
   So rich a cradle and so rich a tomb!

I bought a pennyworth of grapes from one of the poor stall-keepers, and, in return for my coin,
had my two extended palms literally heaped. I can safely say that the vine of Padua has not
declined; the fruit was delicious; and, after making my way half through my purchase, I collected
a few hungry boys, and divided the fragments amongst them.

It was late and dark when, ensconced in the interior of the diligence, we trundled out of the
poor ruined town. The night was dreary and somewhat cold; I courted sleep, but it came not.
My companions were mostly young Englishmen, but not of the intellectual stamp of the companion
from whom I had parted that morning on the quay of Venice. They appeared to be travelling about
mainly to look at pictures and smoke cigars. As to learning anything, they ridiculed the idea
of such a thing in a country where there "was no society." It did not seem to have occurred
to them that it might be worth while learning how it had come to pass that, in a country where
one stumbles at every step on the stupendous memorials of a past civilization and knowledge,
there is now no society. At length, after many hours' riding, we drew up before a tall white
house, which the gray coat and bayonet of the Croat, and the demand for passports, told me
was a police office. It was the last dogana on the Austrian territory. We were next requested
to leave the diligence for a little. The day had not yet broke, but I could see that we were
on the brink of a deep and broad river, which we were preparing to cross, but how, I could
not discover, for I could see no bridge, but only something like a raft moored by the margin
of the stream. On this frail craft we embarked, horses, diligence, passengers, and all; and,
launching out upon the impetuous current, we reached, after a short navigation, the opposite
shore. The river we had crossed was the Po, and the craft which had carried us over was a pont
colant, or flying bridge. This was the frontier of the Papal States; and now, for the first
time, I found myself treading the sacred soil of Peter's patrimony.

Peter, in the days of his flesh, was a fisherman; but some of his brother apostles were tax-gatherers;
and here was the receipt of custom again set up. Both "toll" and "fishing-net," I had understood,
were forsaken when their Master called them; but on my arrival I found the apostles all busy
at their old trades: some fishing for men at Rome; and others, at the frontiers, levying tribute,
both of "the children" and of "strangers;" for on looking up, I could see by the dim light
a low building, like an American log-house, standing at a little distance from the river's
brink, with a huge sign-board stuck up over the door, emblazoned with the keys and the tiara.
This told me that I was in the presence of the Apostolic Police-Office,--an ecclesiastical
institution which, I doubt not, has its authority somewhere in the New Testament, though I
cannot say that I have ever met with the passage in my readings in that book; but that, doubtless,
is because I want the Church's spectacles.

When one gets his name inserted in an Italian way-bill, he delivers up his passport to the
conducteur, who makes it his business to have it viséed at the several stations which are planted
thick along all the Italian routes,--the owner, of course, reckoning for the charges at the
end of the journey. In accordance with this custom, our conducteur entered the shed-like building
I have mentioned, to lay his way-bill and his passports before the officials within. In the
interim, we took our places in the vehicle. The conducteur was in no hurry to return, but I
dreaded no evil. I had had a wakeful night; and now, throwing myself into my nook in the diligence,
the stillness favoured sleep, and I was half unconscious, when I found some one pulling at
my shoulder, and calling on me to leave the carriage. "What is the matter?" I inquired. "Your
passport is not en règle," was the reply. "My passport not right!" I answered in astonishment;
"it has been viséed at every police-office betwixt and London; and especially at those of Austria,
under whose suzerainty the territory of Ferrara is, and no one may prevent me entering the
Papal States." The man coolly replied, "You cannot go an inch farther with us;" and proceeded
to take down my luggage, and deposit it on the bank. I stept out, and bade the man conduct
me to the people inside. Passing under the papal arms, we threaded a long narrow passage,--turned
to the left,--traversed another long passage,--turned to the left again, and stood in a little
chamber dimly lighted by a solitary lamp. The apartment was divided by a bench, behind which
sat two persons,--the one a little withered old man, with small piercing eyes, and the other
very considerably younger and taller, and with a face on which anxiety or mistrust had written
fewer sinister lines. They quickly told me that my passport was not right, and that I could
not enter the Papal States. I asked them to hand me the little volume; and, turning over its
pages, I traced with them my progress from London to the Po, and showed that, on the testimony
of every passport-office and legation, I was a good man and true up to the further banks of
their river; and that if I was other now, I must have become so in crossing, or since touching
their soil. They gave me to understand, in reply, that all these testimonies went for nothing,
seeing I wanted the imprimatur of the papal consul in Venice. I assured them that omission
was owing to misinformation I had received in Venice; that the Valet de Place (an authority
in all such matters) at the Albergo dell' Europa had assured me that the two visées I had got
in Venice were quite enough; and that the pontifical visée could be obtained in Ferrara or
Bologna; and entreated them to permit me to go on to Ferrara, where I would lay my passport
before the authorities, and have the error rectified. I shall never forget the emphasis with
which the younger of the two officials replied, "Non possum." I had often declined "possum"
to my old schoolmaster in former days, little dreaming that I was to hear the vocable pronounced
with such terrible meaning in a little cell, at day-break, on the banks of the Po. The postilion
cracked his whip,--I saw the diligence move off,--and the sound of its retreating wheels seemed
like a farewell to friends and home. A sad, desolate feeling weighed upon me as I turned to
the faces of the police-officers and gendarmes in whose power I was left. We all went back
together into the little apartment of the passport office, where I opened a conversation with
them, in order to discover what was to be done with me,--whether I was to be sent back to Venice,
or home to England, or simply thrown into the Po. I made rapid progress in my Italian studies
that day; and had it been my hap to be arrested a dozen days on end by the papal authorities,
I should by that time have been a fluent Italian speaker. The result of much questioning and
explanation was, that if I liked to forward a petition to the authorities in Ferrara, accompanied
by my passport, I should be permitted to wait where I was till an answer could be returned.