The people having assembled in Jonathan's tent, those who had no room in it, standing without
and listening with great order and stillness, Brother Kohlmeister addressed them, explaining
the aim of our voyage; that we were going, out of love to their nation, to the northern Esquimaux,
and to those of Ungava bay, to make known to them the love of God our Saviour; and, by the
gospel, to point out to them the way to obtain life everlasting. We knew that they were heathen,
who, being ignorant of the way to God, were in bondage to the devil, and would be lost for
ever, unless God had mercy upon them and sent them his word, to lead them to Jesus Christ their
only Saviour, who shed His blood, and died on the cross to redeem their souls.

They received the discourses and exhortations of the Missionary with reverential attention,
but those of their own countrymen, with still greater eagerness, and we hope not without benefit.

The above address seemed to make a deep impression on the minds of all present. One of their
leaders, or captains, exclaimed with great eagerness, in presence of them all: "I am determined
to be converted to Jesus." His name is Onalik. He afterwards called upon Brother Kohlmeister,
and inquired, whether it was the same, to which of the three settlements he removed, as it
was his firm determination to become a true believer. Brother Kohlmeister answered: "That it
was indifferent where he lived, if he were only converted and became a child of God, and an
heir of life eternal." Another, named Tullugaksoak, made the same declaration, and added: "That
he would no longer live among the heathen."

Though the very fickle disposition of the heathen Esquimaux, might cause some doubts to arise
in our minds, as to their putting these good resolutions into practice, yet we hope, that the
seed of the word of God, sown in this place, may not have altogether fallen upon barren ground.

In the evening, our people met in Jonathan's tent, and sang hymns. Almost all the inhabitants
were present. They afterwards spent a long time in pleasant and edifying conversation. It may
here be observed, that the Esquimaux delight in singing and music. As to national songs, they
have nothing deserving of that name; and the various collectors of these precious morsels in
our day, would find their labour lost in endeavouring to harmonize the incantations of their
sorcerers and witches, which more resemble the howlings of wolves and growlings of bears, than
any thing human. But though the hymn and psalm-tunes of the Brethren's Church are mostly of
antient construction, and, though rich in harmony, have no airy melodies to make them easily
understood by unmusical ears, yet the Esquimaux soon learn to sing them correctly; and the
voices of the women are remarkably sweet and well-tuned. Brother Kohlmeister having given one
of the children a toy-flute, Paul took it, and immediately picked out the proper stops in playing
several psalm-tunes upon it, as well as the imperfect state of the instrument would admit.
Brother Kmoch having taken a violin with him, the same Esquimaux likewise took it up, and it
was not long before he found out the manner of producing the different notes.

18th. At 8 A.M. Brother Kohlmeister having delivered a farewell-discourse to the Esquimaux,
(during which they were much affected), we took leave of these goodnatured people, and set
sail with a fair and strong West-wind, but met with much drift-ice at the entrance of the bay.
It made less way than our boat, and the wind becoming more violent, we found ourselves in an
unpleasant situation. After tacking all day, and a great part of the night, the ice preventing
our proceeding, and the wind, our returning to our former station, we were obliged to make
for the Eastern point of the bay, where we at length succeeded in gaining a small cove, and
cast anchor.

Our situation was singular; the rocks rose in a semicircle around us, towering perpendicularly
to an amazing height, like an immense wall.

After a few hours stay, two Nachvak Esquimaux joined us, and prevailed on Jonathan to return
to the tents, but we had scarcely reached the centre of the bay, before the violence of the
wind drove us out to sea, and we were compelled to push for the northern promontory, from which
all the ice had now retreated. Under the mountains we found shelter from the wind, which had
by this time risen to a storm. It was late, and as it appeared dangerous to remain here, we
rowed towards the point, but there beheld, with terror, the raging of the sea and dashing of
the waves against the rocks, the spray flying like clouds into the air, and returned into smooth
water, where, however, we were long in finding a place to anchor in. The night was spent quietly
under shelter of the high rocks. They form the base of mountains higher than the Kiglapeyd,
rise perpendicularly, in some places impending, with fragments, apparently loose, hanging over
their edge, and forming all kinds of grotesque figures.

19th. At sun-rise we still saw and heard the storm which threatened us with destruction, if
we ventured to double the cape.

At nine the wind abated, and we set sail, got safe round the point, and glided, with a gentle
wind, into a broad, shallow bay, called Sangmiyok, full both of hidden and visible rocks, in
which we cast anchor about five P.M. While Brother Kmoch superintended the concerns of the
kitchen, Brother Kohlmeister and Jonathan went on shore, and to the highest mountain on the
promontory. From the top of this mountain they could plainly discern the four principal headlands
between Cape Mugford and Cape Chudleigh. The former situated in latitude 58° N. the latter
in 61°. Between these are four promontories, in a line from S.E. to N.W. The first is Uivak,
at the entrance into Saeglek Bay, outside of which a small island lies, in form of a pyramid
or sugar-loaf. Next follow the two forming Nachvak Bay, another Uivak to the south of Nennoktok,
upon which we stood. The fourth is Kakkeviak, not far from Killinek, or Cape Chudleigh, in
form of a tent, called in the charts Blackhead. Nennoktok is called False Blackhead.

July 20th.--We proceeded with little or no wind, and taking to our oars, doubled the great
Cape of Nennoktok. Here a strong swell from the sea met us, and tossed our boat violently about,
and, having no wind, it drove us nearer to the shore than was perfectly safe. We remained about
an hour in this unpleasant situation, when a breeze sprung up, which carried us out to the
open sea among islands. It now began to rain very hard, and the wind rose. While Brother Kmoch
was assisting the people on deck, Brother Kohlmeister had enough to do below, to keep peace
among the furniture of our cabin, and sometimes found himself defeated in his attempts, pots
and pans, and boxes, and every thing that was not a fixture, tumbling upon him. Several of
our people were in the skin-boat, and the fury of the wind and sea would not permit them to
come to our assistance. The weather also became so thick and foggy between the islands, that
we were unable to see to any distance. Jonathan was therefore glad to have been yesterday on
shore, when from the mountain he discovered the situation of the promontory, the coast, and
the islands before us, and now contrived to steer in the proper direction. We soon found ourselves
in smoother water, and among islands, where a vast number of seals and birds made their appearance.
At six in the evening we reached Kummaktorvik, and came to an anchor.

Having landed, Brother Kmoch shot a hare, close to the beach. These creatures are white in
winter, and grey in summer, and in winter so numerous, that though, when roasted, they are
excellent food, we were almost tired of them last year at Okkak.

The rain continuing during the whole of the night and forenoon of the 21st, we found it necessary
by sufficient rest to strengthen ourselves for future watchfulness.

An Esquimaux travelling bed consists of a large bag of reindeer-skin, with the hair turned
inward, covered with seal-skin, the hair turned outward. It is furnished with a broad flap
to cover the mouth, and a strap to fasten down the flap. This bag comprehends the whole apparatus
and furniture of an Esquimaux bed-room. Having undressed, the traveller creeps into it, and
a kind neighbour having shut him up close by fastening the strap, he leaves him to sleep on
till morning, when he helps him out again. In summer the flap is dispensed with. The invention,
however, is of European origin, and a luxury introduced by the Missionaries; for an Esquimaux
lies down in his clothes, without further preparation.

In the morning we landed, and had the usual Sunday's service with our people on shore; after
which Brother Kohlmeister visited the Esquimaux in their tents, and had some religious conversation
with them, to which they seemed to pay attention. Afterwards Kuttaktok, John, Nukkapiak, and
Kajulik, with their wives, came to see us on board. They are the winter inhabitants of this
bay. John was baptized in infancy at Okkak, but afterwards left the settlement, and not only
associates with the heathen Esquimaux, but has even been guilty of murder. All of them, however,
come occasionally to Okkak. They had two tents about four miles from our landing place.

22d. The contrary wind forbidding our departure, Brother Kohlmeister, accompanied by Jonathan,
Jonas, and Thukkekina, walked across the country to the N.W. bay, to return their visit. When
they saw them coming at a distance, they fired their pieces, to direct them to the tents, and
came joyfully to meet the Missionary and his party. Nothing could exceed the cordiality with
which they received them. A kettle was immediately put on the fire to cook salmon-trout, and
all were invited to partake, which was the more readily accepted, as the length of the walk
had created an appetite, the keenness of which overcame all squeamishness. To do these good
people justice, their kettle was rather cleaner than usual, the dogs having licked it well,
and the fish were fresh and well dressed. To honour the Missionary, a box was placed for him
to sit upon, and the fish were served up to each upon a flat stone instead of a plate. After
dinner, Brother Kohlmeister, in acknowledgment for their civility, gave to each of the women
two needles, and a small portion of tobacco to each man, with which they were highly delighted.

All of them being seated, a very lively and unreserved conversation took place concerning the
only way of salvation, through Jesus Christ, and the necessity of conversion. With John and
his mother Mary, Brother Kohlmeister spoke very seriously, and represented to them the danger
of their state, as apostates from the faith; but they seem blinded by Satan, and determined
to persist in their heathenish life. The Esquimaux now offered to convey the party across the
bay in their skin-boat, which was accepted. Almost all of them accompanied the boat, and met
with a very friendly reception from our boat's company. In the evening, after some hymns had
been sung by our people, Jonas addressed them and the heathen Esquimaux in a short, nervous
discourse, on the blessedness of being reconciled unto God.

Kummaktorvik bay runs N.E. and S.W. and is defended by some islands from the sea. It is about
four or five miles long, and surrounded by high mountains, with some pleasant plains at their
foot, covered with verdure. It's distance from Nachvak is about twelve miles. This chain of
mountains, as will be hereafter mentioned, may be seen from Kangertlualuksoak, in Ungava Bay,
which is a collateral proof, that the neck of land, terminated to the N. by Cape Chudleigh,
is of no great width. Both the Nain and Okkak Esquimaux frequently penetrate far enough inland
to find the rivers taking a westerly direction, consequently towards the Ungava country. They
even now and then have reached the woods skirting the estuaries of George and South rivers.

23d. We set sail at sun-rise, but the wind being too high to suffer us to proceed with safety,
we again anchored in a commodious harbour in Amitok island. Our people were here busily employed
in repairing the damaged rigging and sails. Towards evening Jonas caught a seal, to the great
gratification of our party. It was dressed immediately, and we joined them in their repast
with a good appetite.

The Netsek is the only species of seal which remains during the winter under the ice. They
form in it large caverns, in which they bring forth their young, two at a time, in March. More
than one cavern belongs to one seal, that he may, if disturbed in the first, take shelter in
the second. No other kind of seal is caught in winter by the Esquimaux.

24th. Brother Kmoch rose at two, and went on shore to examine the island more minutely. The
morning was beautiful, and the sun rose with great splendour. Amitok lies N.W. from Kummaktorvik,
is of an oblong shape, and stretches out pretty far towards the sea. The hills are of moderate
height, the land is in many places flat, but in general destitute of grass. On the other side
are some ruins of Greenland houses.

The Esquimaux have a tradition, that the Greenlanders came originally from Canada, and settled
on the outermost islands of this coast, but never penetrated into the country, before they
were driven eastward to Greenland. This report gains some credit, from the state in which the
abovementioned ruins are found. They consist in remains of walls and graves, with a low stone
enclosure round the tomb, covered with a slab of the same material. They have been discovered
on islands near Nain, and though sparingly, all along the whole eastern coast, but we saw none
in Ungava bay. The rocks on Amitok contain large masses of a crumbly, semi-transparent garnet,
of a reddish hue. (From some specimens sent out, it rather appears to be a rose red quartz,
or beryllite).

As it appeared as if we should be detained here, Brother Kmoch had made a fire, and was leisurely
cooking a savoury mess of birds for breakfast, when Jonathan returned from the hills, with
intelligence that the wind was abating in violence, and he therefore would proceed. The tent
was struck, and all hurried on board: yet we had long to combat both an unfavourable wind and
a strong current, which compelled us to double the East point of the island, and seek shelter
among some small islands, steering for Niakungu point. From hence we got the first sight of
Tikkerarsuk, (the Esquimaux name for a low point stretching from the continent into the sea),
of the island Aulatzevik, and the high promontory of Kakkeviak. The whole country to the west
of Niakungu is called Serliarutsit. It fell calm as we doubled the point, and we took to our
oars, and came to an anchor in an open bay, south of Tikkerarsuk.

25th. At 6 P.M. we got under weigh with a fine S.E. wind, and made for the island of Aulatzevik,
which is about the same size as an island of the same name, near Kiglapeyd. The passage between
the island and the main is too shallow for an European boat like ours. The wind rising we sailed
towards Kakkeviak at a great rate. To the right lay a chain of small islands called by the
Esquimaux Pikkiulits, (the habitation of young eider-ducks). Having nearly doubled Kakkeviak
cape, we perceived two tents on shore, which occasioned loud rejoicings on board. They belonged
to Kumiganna of Saeglek, with his party, who being bound to Killinek, had promised to accompany
us thither. The wind was very high, and the Cape encircled with numerous visible and invisible
rocks, but there was a clear passage to the shore, keeping outside of the breakers. But whether
from the violence of the wind, or from the eagerness with which our trusty captain wished soon
to join his countrymen, he steered right through the midst of them, when suddenly the boat
struck with great violence upon a sunken rock. The shock was so great, that all on board were
thrown down, and every thing tumbled about. Poor Agnes, Jonas's wife, got a severe wound in
her head. We immediately took in all our sails, and after hard labour, succeeded in pushing
the boat off the rock. On examination we found that all was safe, and thanked God, with hearts
filled with humble acknowledgments of His mercy, for preserving us from danger and death. The
boat had struck in such a manner, that the keel, which was new and strong, being constructed
of one solid piece of timber, sustained the whole shock. Had she taken the rock with her bottom,
she would most likely have bilged, or upset, and it is a great question, whether our lives,
but particularly the lives of the little children, could have been saved, the sea running very
high. The skin-boat was thrown right over the rocks on shore, by the violence of the surf.

Kumiganna soon came off in his kayak, and advised us to steer for the land right before us,
where he thought we should find Uttakiyok; nor was there any safe anchorage in this place.
We therefore took a young Esquimaux on board as pilot, and steered between the main land and
the islands, for Oppernavik, twenty English miles off. Having left the skin-boat to follow
us, we cut swiftly through the water, and soon reached the place of our destination.

When we arrived at Oppernavik, we found Uttakiyok, with his two wives and youngest brother,
waiting to receive us. He and his family are from the Ungava bay, and had been upon the watch
in this place during the whole spring. They welcomed us with shouts of joy, and firing of their
pieces, and we had indeed the greatest reason to thank God, that he had sent us this man, to
conduct us on our way to an unknown country, and through unfrequented seas.

For this service Uttakiyok was eminently qualified, and without such a steady, faithful guide,
we should have been wandering in the most painful and dangerous uncertainty in the desert regions
to the West of Cape Chudleigh, where, on a coast of 100 miles in length, we did not meet with
a single inhabitant. He was so anxiously intent upon meeting us, that he had erected signals
on all the heights surrounding his tent, to prevent our missing him. Among his countrymen he
is much respected, on account of his superior sense, and skill in all Esquimaux arts, and possesses
great influence among them.

Uttakiyok was one of the two Esquimaux, from whom, in the year 1800, we received the first
distinct information respecting the Ungava country and its inhabitants, by which the desire,
excited both at home and here in Labrador, to visit the northern Esquimaux, was greatly strengthened,
and led to a resolution, if possible, to take early steps to accomplish this object, (See page 3).

Two years ago, he had been on a trading voyage to Okkak, from Killinek, where he then dwelt,
and intended to return, in the summer following, to Ungava, his native country, but an illness,
which befel his son, detained him. This intelligence was received at Okkak during last winter,
when we sent him word, that as we purposed paying his countrymen a visit, we wished him to
wait for us, that he might conduct us through the straits of Killinek. But having heard nothing
further concerning him, we remained in uncertainty respecting his intentions. We were the more
thankful to God, who had disposed the heart of this man cheerfully to accept of the commission,
and wait to be our guide, an office which he performed with a degree of faithfulness and disinterested
kindness, which claims our admiration and gratitude.

While we were here waiting for a favourable opportunity to pass the straits, which were yet
filled with ice, he behaved in the kindest manner to us and our Esquimaux. Though a heathen,
he regularly attended our morning and evening worship, and declared to Jonathan, that he also
intended to be converted to Jesus, and if we would form a settlement in his country, would
come and live with us, and was sure, that many of his countrymen would do the same.

Around his tent, a considerable extent of rock was covered with seal's flesh, and in the hollows
were pools of oil. Ten bags of blubber were standing ready for sale; and with a view to shew
him our good-will, Brother Kohlmeister bartered with him for three of them, which were hid
under the stones, to take them with us, if practicable, on our return.

26th. We put up our three tents; Uttakiyok's people had three more. Wind N.W. We were now near
the entrance into the Ikkerasak, (or straits), which separate the island of Killinek and two
or three other large islands from the continent. They stretch to the N. to the distance of
about 12 or 15 English miles, the outer one forming Cape Chudleigh. To the N.W. of the cape
lie some other small islands, called by the Esquimaux Tutsaets, and N.N.E. of these, the great
island Resolution, called Igloarsuk, on which, as we were informed, many Esquimaux reside.
The Tutsaets were discernible from this place, but not the latter, which however, as the Esquimaux
say, may be seen from the Tutsaets. We guessed at its situation, from the clouds hanging over
it in the North quarter. The weather was, as might be expected on the northern coast of America,
foggy, rainy, and cold, and our small stove, which we brought into the tent, was of great use
to us during our stay in this place.

27th. Rain and wind violent, and prevented our proceeding. We caught some Pitsiolaks, (awks),
and a brace of young puffins, which, with the addition of some salt meat, made excellent broth.

28th. The weather was fair, but the wind still blowing hard at N.W. Brother Kmoch went to Uttakiyok's
tent, and sitting down with him at the point of Oppernavik, and looking down the coast as far
as Kakkeviak, got him to name all the bays, points, and islands, from Kakkeviak to Oppernavik,
of which he made minutes. The distance between the two points or headlands may be guessed at,
by the time of sailing with a strong leading wind, namely three hours and a half. Coming up
from Kakkeviak, to the E. lie three islands, Kikkertorsoak, Imilialuk, rather less in view,
and Nessetservik. Having passed these, there follows a chain of small, naked islands, not very
high, stretching towards Killinek. To the W. near Kakkeviak lies Uglek; then a bay, Nulluk,
and farther to the left another bay, Tellek, (right arm). The country along these bays is called
Attanarsuk. Now follow the bay Ikkorliarsuk, the lower point of Tikkerarsuk, the bay Annivagtok,
and Kakkeviak, a high promontory, (not to be confounded with the other Kakkeviak, where we
struck on the rock. This promontory is only about four miles from Oppernavik to the S.E.).
Then follow two small bays, Anniovariktok and Sangmiyok, then the promontory Ukkuliakartok,
(meaning a headland between two bays), and the bay Tunnusuksoak. Next, the last point on the
continent, forming the south entrance to the Ikkerasak. The abovementioned chain of barren
islands is called by the Esquimaux Naviarutsit, and besides them some low rocks, Nuvurutsit.
The island of Killinek is about nine miles long, and five broad, high, and forming the north
side of the straits. Another Ikkerasak, (or strait), divides it from an island called Kikkertorsoak,
(a common name for an island), of considerable height, but not so long as Killinek: one, or
perhaps more islands follow, narrowing E. and W. and forming Cape Chudleigh.

To-day there was much ice both in the strait and at sea. We went to the nearest island, where
Brother Kohlmeister took an observation, and found our situation to be 60° 16'.

30th. It blew a hard gale from the N.E., rained hard, and as the ice now began to enter our
harbour, we were busily engaged in keeping it off the boat.

31st. Imagining to-day that the straits would be free from ice, we resolved to attempt to pass
them, and set sail. But it soon became evident, that there was still plenty of ice in the neighbourhood,
and the wind setting to the N.E. with fogs, we were obliged to return. Suspecting also that
the easterly wind would again drive the ice into our former harbour at Oppernavik, we ran into
a short pass, between that and a small island called Ammitok, where we anchored under shelter
of the island. The sequel proved, that we had for once acted with sound judgment and foresight,
for our former anchoring-ground was soon filled with ice; and during the night large flakes
entered even into our present place of refuge.

August 1st. At day break we found ourselves completely surrounded by floating ice, a strong
N.W. wind driving the large shoals from the W. side of the little pass in which we lay, with
much force towards us, insomuch that our boat was in the greatest danger of being crushed to
pieces by them. We were all day long hard at work with poles, boat-hooks, and hatchets, to
ward off the larger shoals, but when the tide fell, they hung upon our cables and anchors,
of which we had three out, closing in also on all sides of the boat, so that we were every
moment in fearful expectation of her being carried away, and our anchors lost, which would
have reduced us to the most distressing situation. Indeed we all cried to the Lord to help
us in this dangerous situation, and not to suffer us to perish here, but by His almighty aid,
to save us and our boat. With great and unremitting exertions we had laboured all day, from
the morning early, till seven in the evening, when the Lord heard our prayers, and sent relief.
We now succeeded in working the boat out of the ice, the rising of the tide having opened a
passage through it, just as we were almost exhausted with fatigue. It also became quite calm,
and we felt as if we had passed from death to life.

Having anchored again on the opposite side of the little pass or strait, we gave thanks to
God, for the deliverance we had experienced through His mercy, in which our Esquimaux, young
and old, most fervently joined.

During our stay at Oppernavik, our whole stock of fire-wood was expended, and we were obliged
to purchase of our companions, what they had to spare. We likewise robbed some old Esquimaux
graves of the wooden utensils, which it is the superstitious practice of the heathen to lay
beside the corpses of their owners, with old tent-poles, &c. and thus obtained fuel sufficient
for our cookery.

Wood will not decay by mere exposure to the air in Labrador, but wastes away gradually; and
after forty or more years, the wood found at the graves is still fit for use.

August 2d.--Having made all needful preparations for the voyage, a gentle but favourable wind,
and occasional rowing, brought us, about nine in the morning, to the entrance of the much dreaded
Ikkerasak. The weather was pleasant and warm, not a flake of ice was to be seen, and all our
fear and anxiety had subsided. Our minds were attuned to praise and thanksgiving for the providential
preservation we had experienced yesterday. We performed our morning devotions on deck, and
all joined in a joyful hallelujah to God our Saviour, which was sweetly repeated by echoes
among the mountains and precipices on either side. Deut. 32, 39. We rejoiced, that we were
in the hands of a gracious and merciful God and Father, who would not forsake us, but deal
with us according to his wonted mercy and favour.

The Ikkerasak, (or strait), is about ten miles in length; the land on each side high and rocky,
and in some places precipitous, but there appeared no rocks in the strait itself. The water
is deep and clear. Its mouth is wide, and soon after entering, a bay opens to the left, which
by an inlet only just wide enough to admit a boat, communicates with a lagoon of considerable
magnitude, in which lies an island on its western bank. Beyond this bay, the passage narrows
and consequently the stream, always setting from N. to S. grows more rapid. Here the mountains
on both sides rise to a great height. Having proceeded for two miles in a narrow channel, the
strait opens again, but afterwards contracts to about 1000 yards across; immediately beyond
which, the left coast turns to the south. As the tide ebbs regularly with the current from
N. to S. along the whole coast of Labrador, the current through the strait is most violent
during its fall, and less, when resisted by its influx on rising.

We were taught to expect much danger in passing certain eddies or whirlpools in the narrow
parts of the straits, and were therefore continually upon the look-out for them. When we passed
the first narrow channel, at 12 P.M. it being low water, no whirlpool was perceptible. Having
sailed on for little more than half an hour, with wind and tide in our favour, we reached the
second. Here, indeed, we discovered a whirlpool, but of no great magnitude at this state of
the tide. Near the north-shore the water was, indeed, whirled round in the manner of a boiling
cauldron of ten or twelve feet diameter, with considerable noise and much foam; but we passed
without the smallest inconvenience, within thirty or forty feet of the outer circle. Our skin-boat,
however, which we had in tow, with a man in it, was seized by the vortex, and received a rapid
twist; but as the towing-rope did not break, she was immediately rescued from danger by the
swiftness of our course, and the affair afforded us more diversion than anxiety. The motion
of the water in these eddies is so great, that they never freeze in the severest winter. The
ice being drawn towards them with great force, the largest shoals are carried under water,
and thrown up again, broken into numerous fragments. The Ikkerasak is at that season utterly
impassable for boats. The Killinek people inhabit an island to the right, after leaving the strait.

When we quitted the Ikkerasak, and entered the ocean on the western side of Cape Chudleigh,
it seemed as if we were transported to a new world. Hitherto the coast to our left had always
taken a northerly direction. It now turned to the S.S.W. and is low, with gently sloping hills,
the sea being full of small islands, abounding in sea-fowl.

To the N. and N.W. we saw the open sea in Hudson's Straits, which, compared to the turbulent
Atlantic, seemed calm and peaceful. We sailed briskly amidst the islands, and overtook the
inhabitants of Saeglek, whom we had seen at Kakkeviak, where they had got the start of us.
The wind being favourable, we did not hail them, but kept on our course. We now saw with pleasure
the Ungava country to the South before us, but had first to pass the low point of Uivarsuk,
the bay of Arvavik, in which the people from Saeglek had their summer stations, and the mountain
Omanek, of moderate height, and surrounded by many small islets, called by the Esquimaux Erngavinget,
(bowels). We now discovered three skin-boats full of people standing towards us from the shore.
They were inhabitants of Ungava, and welcomed our approach with loud shouts of joy and firing
their pieces, which was answered by our party. They followed us to Omanek, a round island rising
like a loaf among the rest, where they pitched their tents on shore.

Some of them had formerly dwelt in different places north of Okkak, and were known to the Missionaries
in former times, the rest were perfect strangers. They declared their intention of coming over
to the North of Okkak, to remain some time in that country, for the sake of trade. It has been
mentioned, that some of the Ungava people have come to Okkak, and carry on a trade between
their countrymen and that place. They are a kind of middle men, bring fox and bear-skins, and
exchange them for European goods. These they carry back, and sell at a very advanced price
in the Ungava country. They spend two years on such a trading voyage.

Brother Kohlmeister visited the people in their tents. They were about fifty in number, men,
women, and children. He informed them, that nothing could induce the Missionaries to come into
this country, but love to the poor heathen, and an ardent desire to make them acquainted with
their Creator and Redeemer, that through Him they might attain to happiness in time and eternity.
Some seemed to listen with great attention, but the greater part understood nothing of what
was said. This, of course, did not surprise us, as most of them were quite ignorant heathen,
who had never before seen an European. They, however, raised a shout of joy, when we informed
them, that we would come and visit them in their own country. Many were not satisfied with
viewing us on every side with marks of great astonishment, but came close up to us, and pawed
us all over. At taking leave we presented them with a few trifles, which excited among them
the greatest pleasure and thankfulness.

We recommend these heathen to the mercy of God, and pray, that the day may soon dawn, when
the light of the saving gospel of Jesus may shine into their hearts.

3d. Several of them came on board, once more to see us, and, in their way, to express their
regard and gratitude. They also got some useful articles from our people, in exchange for their
goods. We now set sail, passed a point called Oglarvik, and the bay Takpangayok, and arrived
at Tuktusiovik, (a place where reindeer are seen), where we cast anchor for the night. Already
at Omanek we had discovered a great difference between the rise and fall of the tides there
and about Killinek. In the latter place it rose to four fathoms, but here still higher. The
country looked pleasant, with many berry-bearing plants and bushes. There was, likewise, plenty
of drift-wood all along the coast; not the large Greenland timber, but small trees and roots,
evidently carried out of the great rivers of the Ungava by the ice. We had, of course, fire-wood
enough, without robbing the graves of their superstitious furniture. Our Esquimaux pitched
their tent on shore, and we supped with them on a mess of seal's flesh and eider-ducks. The
musquitoes were extremely troublesome during our repast, after which we retired to sleep on
board the boat.

4th. Wind fair. We passed numerous low rocks; a point, by name unknown to Uttakiyok; the bay
Ikpigitok, two miles broad, and the cape called Uibvaksoak, the northern boundary of the great
bay or gulf of Abloriak. This cape is surrounded by many bare and sunken rocks, which caused
us to stand out pretty far to the westward. While we were off the point, we descried, at a
very great distance to the N.W. a large island, called by the Esquimaux Akpatok. They say,
that it encloses the whole bay or gulf towards the sea, and consists of high land: also, that
it is connected with the western continent at low water by an isthmus. The north coast of this
island appears to be the line laid down in maps and charts as the coast of America, to the
south of Hudson's Straits. But the district of Ungava is separated from the island by a large
inland bay, extending southward to the 58° N.L. North of Akpatok, the Esquimaux speak of islands
well peopled by their countrymen, who have never seen Europeans.

Having safely doubled the point or cape of Uibvaksoak, we came to an anchor near a small island
to the south, where we spent the night.

5th. Calm weather, and proceeded gently. About 9 A.M. the wind turned against us, and we ran
into a small bay, about five miles from our former anchoring-place. Here we found the Andromeda
tetragona growing in tolerable quantity, on the banks of a lagoon of fresh water. The face
of the country was unpleasant, with many steep rocks. On a precipice behind our tent we perceived
nests of birds of prey. The naked rocks had singular shapes, and presented to the imagination
the ruins of a destroyed town. In the vallies we saw many small lagoons, but little grass,
and the excrements of geese. It was about full moon, and the tide rising here five or six fathom,
occasioned the most strange alterations in the prospect towards the sea, which, being smooth
and clear of rocks at high water, exhibited, after its fall, an archipelago of rugged islands
and black flats.

August 6th.--We crossed the bay Abloriak, which is large and wide, with many small islands
and rocks towards the sea, and high black mountains inland, called Torngaets. Uttakiyok, who
was always very eager to make us attentive to every object and its name, shewed us here a wide
and deep cavern, in shape like the gable end of an house, situated at the top of a precipice,
in a black mountain, of a very horrid and dark appearance. This, he informed us, was the dwelling
place of Torngak, the evil spirit. The scenery was, indeed, extremely wild and terrible, and
the beforementioned prospect of the rocks and islands at low water gave to the whole country
a most singularly gloomy character. Nor is this change, occasioned by the tide in the state
of the sea, merely in appearance terrific, it is so in reality: for we never durst cast anchor
in less than eight or nine fathoms water, lest at ebb-tide we should find ourselves aground,
or even high and dry.

The cavern just spoken of, connected with the chain of black mountains in which it is situated,
we called the Dragon's dwelling, but had no time to examine the place, though it did not appear
inaccessible. Whether Uttakiyok would have ventured to accompany us into it, is another question,
for he was, with all his good sense, strongly attached to the superstitious notions and ceremonies
of his countrymen. Thus, on passing dangerous places he always hung the claw of a raven to
his breast, and carried the blown paunch of a seal upon a tent-pole fixed to one side of his
boat. The latter is a common practice among the northern Esquimaux, and probably considered
by them all as a very efficient charm.

We passed Sioralik, and many small and flat rocky islands: the bay Issorkitok, (a grassy place),
a nameless headland; and the larger bay Nappartolik, (a woody country). The wood is said to
commence at the interior point of this bay, and to continue throughout the whole of the Ungava
country, which, as we afterwards discovered, extends to a considerable distance to the southward.
Then follows Tunnuyalik, a point, or perhaps an island, on which lies a huge white stone, twenty
or thirty feet high, by which it is distinguished from other similar headlands. A chain of
low, flat islands, runs out into the sea to a considerable distance, and appearing at a distance
as continued land, they are mistaken for a cape. Farther on is the bay Ittimnekoktok, where
it grew dark before we found a suitable anchorage. The wind was high, and some of our company
went on shore in the skin-boat, in order to pitch their tent, and spend the night.

