[Sidenote: Snorri' death] When Bolli had been one winter in Iceland Snorri the Priest fell
ill. That illness did not gain quickly on him, and Snorri lay very long abed. But when the
illness gained on him, he called to himself all his kinsfolk and affinity, and said to Bolli,
"It is my wish that you shall take over the manor here and the chieftainship after my day,
for I grudge honours to you no more than to my own sons, nor is there within this land now
the one of my sons who I think will be the greatest man among them, Halldor to wit." Thereupon
Snorri breathed his last, being seventy-seven years old. That was one winter after the fall
of St. Olaf, so said Ari the Priest "Deep-in-lore." Snorri was buried at Tongue. [Sidenote:
The descendants of Herdis] Bolli and Thordis took over the manor of Tongue as Snorri had willed
it, and Snorri's sons put up with it with a good will. Bolli grew a man of great account, and
was much beloved. Herdis, Bolli's daughter, grew up at Holyfell, and was the goodliest of all
women. Orm, the son of Hermund, the son of Illugi, asked her in marriage, and she was given
in wedlock to him; their son was Kodran, who had for wife Gudrun, the daughter of Sigmund.
The son of Kodran was Hermund, who had for wife Ulfeid, the daughter of Runolf, who was the
son of Bishop Kelill; their sons were Kelill, who was Abbot of Holyfell, and Reinn and Kodran
and Styrmir; their daughter was Thorvor, whom Skeggi, Bard's son, had for wife, and from whom
is come the stock of the Shaw-men. Ospak was the name of the son of Bolli and Thordis. The
daughter of Ospak was Gudrun, whom Thorarin, Brand's son, had to wife. Their son was Brand,
who founded the benefice of Housefell. Gellir, Thorleik's son, took to him a wife, and married
Valgerd, daughter of Thorgils Arison of Reekness. Gellir went abroad, and took service with
King Magnus the Good, and had given him by the king twelve ounces of gold and many goods besides.
The sons of Gellir were Thorkell and Thorgils, and a son of Thorgils was Ari the "Deep-in-lore."
The son of Ari was named Thorgils, and his son was Ari the Strong. Now Gudrun began to grow
very old, and lived in such sorrow and grief as has lately been told. She was the first nun
and recluse in Iceland, and by all folk it is said that Gudrun was the noblest of women of
equal birth with her in this land. It is told how once upon a time Bolli came to Holyfell,
for Gudrun was always very pleased when he came to see her, and how he sat by his mother for
a long time, and they talked of many things. [Sidenote: Bolli questions his mother] Then Bolli
said, "Will you tell me, mother, what I want very much to know? Who is the man you have loved
the most?" Gudrun answered, "Thorkell was the mightiest man and the greatest chief, but no
man was more shapely or better endowed all round than Bolli. Thord, son of Ingun, was the wisest
of them all, and the greatest lawyer; Thorvald I take no account of." Then said Bolli, "I clearly
understand that what you tell me shows how each of your husbands was endowed, but you have
not told me yet whom you loved the best. Now there is no need for you to keep that hidden any
longer." Gudrun answered, "You press me hard, my son, for this, but if I must needs tell it
to any one, you are the one I should first choose thereto." Bolli bade her do so. Then Gudrun
said, "To him I was worst whom I loved best." "Now," answered Bolli, "I think the whole truth
is told," and said she had done well to tell him what he so much had yearned to know. Gudrun
grew to be a very old woman, and some say she lost her sight. Gudrun died at Holyfell, and
there she rests. [Sidenote: The end of Gellir] Gellir, Thorkell's son, lived at Holyfell to
old age, and many things of much account are told of him; he also comes into many Sagas, though
but little be told of him here.