THE

ATLANTIC MONTHLY.

A MAGAZINE OF LITERATURE, ART, AND POLITICS.

       *       *       *       *       *

VOL. I--MARCH, 1858.--NO. V.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CATACOMBS OF ROME.

  --------parti elette
  Di Roma, che son state cimitero
  Alla milizia che Pietro seguette.

  PARADISO, c. ix.

"Roma Sotterranea,"--the underground Rome of the dead,--the buried city of graves. Sacred is
the dust of its narrow streets. Blessed were those who, having died for their faith, were laid
to rest in its chambers. In pace is the epitaph that marks the places where they lie. In pace
is the inscription which the imagination reads over the entrance to the Christian Catacombs.

Full as the upper city is of great and precious memories, it possesses none greater and more
precious than those which belong to the city under ground. Republican Rome had no braver heroes
than Christian Rome. The ground and motives of action were changed, but the courage and devotion
of earlier times did not surpass the courage and devotion of later days,--while a new spirit
displayed itself in new and unexampled deeds, and a new and brighter glory shone from them
over the world. But, unhappily, the stories of the early Christian centuries were taken possession
of by a Church which has sought in them the means of enhancing her claims and increasing her
power; mingling with them falsehoods and absurdities, cherishing the wildest and most unnatural
traditions, inventing fictitious miracles, dogmatizing on false assertions, until reasonable
and thoughtful religious men have turned away from the history of the first Christians in Rome
with a sensation of disgust, and with despair at the apparently inextricable confusion of fact
and fable concerning them.

But within a few years the period to which these stories belong has begun to be investigated
with a new spirit, even at Rome itself, and in the bosom of the Roman Church. It was no unreasonable
expectation, that, from a faithful and honest exploration of the catacombs, and examination
of the inscriptions and works of art in them or derived from them, more light might be thrown
upon the character, the faith, the feeling, and the life of the early Christians at Rome, than
from any other source whatever. Results of unexpected interest have proved the justness of
this expectation.

These results are chiefly due to the labors of two Romans, one a priest and the other a layman,
the Padre Marchi, and the Cavaliere de Rossi, who have devoted themselves with the utmost zeal
and with great ability to the task of exploration. The present Pope, stimulated by the efforts
of these scholars, established some years since a Commission of Sacred Archeology for the express
purpose of forwarding the investigations in the catacombs; and the French government, soon
after its military occupation of Rome, likewise established a commission for the purpose of
conducting independent investigations in the same field.[A]

