    "Dear Sir, will you please give my daughter a dinner, as she has no
    father and I have no means of getting her one, and oblodge."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WATCH DOGS.

V.

DEAR CHARLES,--You must forgive my writing this letter with a fountain pen, but to do otherwise
would be an act of ingratitude to my servant, Private J. B. COX. I told him this morning that
I had lost my pocket pen, a cheap affair made of tin. I instructed him to find it, and J. B.
is one of those perfect factotums who do as they are told. He has a sharp eye and no scruples,
and so, owing to the fact that three other officers live in my billet, he was able to find
two valuable fountain pens and one stylographic in no time. The exigencies of war necessitate
some little irregularity now and then; but how, I asked him, did he justify this excess of
zeal? J. B. is distinguished by a lisp among other things. "It'th betht to be on the thafe
thide, Thir," said he.

We had an all-night outpost job on this week, at which my company achieved an unpremeditated
success--unpremeditated by the authorities, that is. Before setting out we had been threatened
with the heaviest penalties if we were discovered at any moment in a dereliction of duty, which
meant that the Adjutant proposed to pay us a surprise visit and had every hope of discovering
responsible officers asleep at their posts. Those who know will tell you that the hour before
dawn is that during which an attack is most likely in real war; they also assert that this
is the most likely period for derelictions in imitation war, and so, as we anticipated all
along, this was the time selected for the surprise visit. But we were not caught napping, Sir;
every possible approach to our picket was protected by strong groups, each instructed to let
no one pass on any account and least of all those who attempted to trick them by a pretence
of authority, however realistic that pretence might be. Thus it fell out that when the Adjutant
was sighted he was instantly accosted and firmly apprehended. Inasmuch as he refused to be
led blindfold through our lines, he was not allowed to approach our august selves at all, but
was retained until such time as we cared to approach him. Mind you, I'm not saying we were
asleep; merely I show you how thoroughly we do our work. It is not mine that is the master
mind; it is my skipper's, a man upon whose ready cunning I rely to bring me to Berlin and its
choicest light beer well in advance of all other victorious forces.

It used to be our Brigadier's fad that officers commanding companies should know the names
of all their men, and lately he took upon himself to test it. Captain after captain, upon being
asked to name a selected man, had to confess ignorance; not so my skipper. He knew them all.
"What is that man's name?" asked the Brigadier, indicating an inconspicuous and rather terrified
private, just that sort of man whose name one would never know or want to know. (It was something
rather like Postlethwaite, I believe). "Two paces forward, Private Johnson," ordered my skipper
emphatically, fixing an hypnotic eye on the youth, and adding, to prove his accuracy, "Now,
my lad, your name's Joh----?" "----nson, Sir," concluded the victim. That night, at dinner,
the Brigadier told the C.O. that, among many disappointments, he had found one officer who
seemed to know the names of his men "almost better than the men did themselves." In accordance
with J. B.'s maxim about being on the safe side, it was a company order afterwards that, when
asked, all even numbers were to be "Evans" and odd numbers "Hodges," till further notice.

Talking about names, I was quite homesick for old London when, in calling the names and regimental
numbers of a party, I found myself bawling angrily for "Gerrard, No. 2784."

Catering, as we do, for all tastes, we have in our rank and file a serio-comic artiste from
the lower rungs of the music-hall ladder. We had a busy time with him at our Great Inoculation
Ceremony (First Performance) on Saturday. We could not put too strict a discipline upon men
into whose arms we were just about to insert fifteen million microbes apiece, and our private
was not slow to seize his opportunity. He insisted upon his fifteen million being numbered
off in order to discover whether there were any of them absent from parade; he wished to know
if they had all their proper equipment, and whether each had passed his standard test. As the
needle was inserted into his arm, "Move to the left in fours," he ordered them; "form fours--left--in
succession of divisions--number one leading--quick-ma-harch." (It was the same humorist who
recently took a strong line about protective colouring, and put in an application for a set
of khaki teeth.)

At the moment of inoculation we were all, officers and men, very facetious and off-hand about
it, but as the evening came on we grew piano, even miserable. Mess was not made any less sombre
by Wentworth's plaintive observation that "the doctor who had succeeded in making a thousand
of us thoroughly ill and debarred us from the cheering influence of alcohol was probably at
that very moment himself enjoying a hearty debauch."

The only effect of the dose upon me was to induce a rather morbid contemplation. I recalled
the happy times when I was once, even as you are, a barrister who rose at 8.30 A.M. (an incredibly
late hour), did next to nothing all day and, when I wanted to go away, just went. I used in
those gentle days to take off my hat to ladies (a long-forgotten habit), and I never dreamed
of calling anybody "Sir." I used to suppose that I should rise from stuff to silk, from silk
to ermine, to conclude as a Judge on the King's Bench. It seems now that I may rise from stars
to crowns, from crowns to oakleaves, and end my days as a commissionaire in--who knows?--His
Majesty's foyer. I, who had hoped to dismiss your appeals, may come instead to hail your taxi
at the theatre door; may even come to call you "Sir." But for the moment I am

Yours thoroughly disrespectfully,

HENRY.

       *       *       *       *       *

Illustration: THE WAR ON GERMAN COMMERCE.

"We are glad to hear, Mr. Wilton, that you have volunteered for active service. We are proud
to know that you are ready to do your duty as a Briton. We shall be pleased to keep your place
open for you during your absence. And, Mr. Wilton, you might take a few thousand of our circulars
in your knapsack to be distributed among the enemy in the regrettable event of your being taken
prisoner."

       *       *       *       *       *

Illustration: RURAL LIFE UNDER WAR CONDITIONS.

OUR VILLAGE ERRAND-BOY.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TRAITOR.

    "Down with the Teutons!" rose the people's cry;
      "Who said that England's honour was for sale?"
    Myself, I hunted out the local spy,
      Tore down his pole and cast him into jail.
    "An English barber now," said I, "or none!
    This thatch shall never fall before a Hun!"

    And all was well until that fateful morn
      When, truss'd for shearing in a stranger's shop,
    "Be careful, please," I said, "I want it shorn
      Close round the ears, but leave it long on top;"
    And, thrilling with a pleasant pride of race,
    I watched the fellow's homely British face.

    An optimist he was. "Those German brutes,
      They'll get wot for. You mark my words," he said,
    And dragged great chunks of hair out by the roots,
      Forgetting mine was not a German head.
    "Oh, yes, they'll get it in the neck," said he
    And gaily emphasized his prophecy.

    Ah me, that ruthless Britisher! He scored
      His parallel entrenchments round and round
    My quivering scalp. "Invade us 'ere?" he roared;
      "Not bloomin' likely! Not on British ground!"
    His nimble scissors left a row of scars
    To point the prowess of our gallant Tars.

    I bore it without movement, save a start
      Induc'd by one shrewd gash behind the ear.
    With silent fortitude I watch'd him part
      The ruin on my skull. And then a tear,
    A fat, round tear, well'd up from either eye--
    O traitorous tribute to the local spy!

       *       *       *       *       *

JULES FRANÇOIS.

    Jules François is poet, and gallant and gay;
    Jules François makes frocks in the Rue de la Paix;
    Since the mobilisation Jules François's the one
    That sits by the breech of a galloping gun,
              In the team of a galloping gun!

    When the wheatfields of August stood white on the plain
    Jules François was ordered to go to Lorraine,
    Since the guns would get flirting with good Mr. KRUPP
    And wanted Jules François to limber them up,
              To lay and to limber them up!

    The road it was dusty, the road it was long,
    But there was Jules François to make you a song;
    He sang them a song, and he fondled his gun,
    Though I wouldn't translate it he sang it A1;
              His battery thought it A1!

    The morning was fresh and the morning was cool
    When they stopped in an orchard two miles out of Toul,
    And the grey muzzles spat through the grey muzzles' smoke,
    And there was Jules François to make you a joke,
              To crack his idea of a joke:--

    "The road to our Paris 'tis hard as can be;
    The road to that London he halts at the sea;
    So, vois-tu, mon gars? 'tis as certain as sin
    This wisdom that chooses the road to Berlin!"
              So they follow the road to Berlin.

       *       *       *       *       *

ENTER BINGO.

Before I introduce Bingo I must say a word for Humphrey, his sparring partner.

Humphrey found himself on the top of my stocking last December--put there, I fancy, by Celia,
though she says it was Father Christmas. He is a small yellow dog, with glass optics, and the
label round his neck said, "His eyes move." When I had finished the oranges and sweets and
nuts, when Celia and I had pulled the crackers, Humphrey remained over to sit on the music-stool,
with the air of one playing the pianola. In this position he found his uses. There are times
when a husband may legitimately be annoyed; at these times it was pleasant to kick Humphrey
off his stool on to the divan, to stand on the divan and kick him on to the sofa, to stand
on the sofa and kick him on to the book-case; and then, feeling another man, to replace him
on the music-stool and apologise to Celia. It was thus that he lost his tail.

When the War broke out we wrote to the War Office, offering to mobilise Humphrey. Already he
could do "Eyes right, eyes front." But the loss of his tail was against him. Rejected by the
medical authorities as unfit, he returned to the music-stool and waited for a job. It was at
this moment that Bingo joined the establishment.

Here we say good-bye to Humphrey for the present; Bingo claims our attention. Bingo arrived
as an absurd little black tub of puppiness, warranted (by a pedigree as long as your arm) to
grow into a Pekinese. It was Celia's idea to call him Bingo; because (a ridiculous reason)
as a child she had had a poodle called Bingo. The less said about poodles the better; why rake
up the past?

"If there is the slightest chance of Bingo--of this animal growing up into a poodle," I said,
"he leaves my house at once."

"My poodle," said Celia, "was a lovely dog."

(Of course she was only a child then. She wouldn't know.)

