But such a reflection is only partly correct. Among those bracelets, chains of gold and sparkling
rings were many that proved no love of luxury, no mere desire for barbaric bedecking. Surely
some were tokens of love, seized at that last moment when a hideous death approached; seized,
too, when the choice lay between objects of far greater intrinsic value and these precious
trinkets--precious because speaking with silent eloquence of long gone throbs of ecstasy, and
of a bliss such as these women, even had they escaped, could never again have known. Glance
around the room in which you are now seated, and, whether you are gray haired and dignified,
or with youthful happiness are anticipating to-night's cotillion, dare you deny that the supposition
is probable? Is there not somewhere near you, in sight, where occasionally your hand may touch
it with regretful love, or hidden in some secret drawer whence you rarely trust yourself to
take it--is there not a jewel, a scented glove, a bit of ribbon, a faded violet, or a lock
of hair? Whatever it is, in time of a catastrophe--hastened flight--would it not first be seized
in preference to your costliest treasure?

If you have no such possession, doubtless you are more peacefully content than those of us
that have, but you have missed the supreme and most agonizing happiness with which the race
is cursed.

For long before those Pompeiian days, when Nydia would have welcomed renewed blindness in exchange
for one glimpse of Glaucus, or of some token of his care, men and women have cherished the
gifts of those they loved. True, not all have valued them, nor have all had the power so to
do. The beautiful Valois, quivering beneath the brand of the red-hot iron because of her madness
for the cold, white diamond, knew nothing of the secret bliss in possessing purely as a token
of love either a diamond or a rose. Nor did Maria Louisa, leaving her Jove-like husband to
his fate, and escaping to Vienna with the crown's most costly jewels. Nor, I am afraid, did
the majority of the American women competing in the attempt to eclipse royalty itself in their
display of gems at the coronation of King Edward.

There have been others, too, that knew nothing of the love token--others whose ignorance of
it was less deserving of censure. None was exchanged by Dante and Beatrice, even though from
their first meeting, as he has told, "love lorded it over my soul!" Nor do I recall that any
passed between Petrarch and Laura, even though at her death he wrote that "there is nothing
more left me to live for"! But these were examples of the super-ideal love, such as is seldom
known on earth, and such as, doubtless, would be unsatisfying to you or to me. We of a generation
that demands, above all, the tangible in everything, whether financial or flirtatious, of the
heart or of the stomach--we must have, must we not, real kisses, warm from the mouth, and actual
love tokens, freely offered by or passionately pleaded from the hand of her we love?

In this we are far from original--although, as I hope to show, men, at least, are to-day more
influenced by such keepsakes than ever before in the history of the world. The great majority
of the human race, from peasant girls to empresses, and from shepherd lads to omnipotent tyrants,
have known, to some extent, the sadness and the joy of the love token. The ballad that the
lover-poet addressed to one who was "just a porcelain trifle, just a thing of puffs and patches,"
but who was, just the same, his adored--the ballad love token pleased even that unemotional
doll. "And you kept it and you read it, belle Marquise!" Silly or supreme, all are vulnerable.

Therefore it is with no lack of authority that you learn that the human race has known it for
some centuries--this love token. It took the form of birds among the ancient Greeks, although
as for this purpose the birds were sold in the Athenian public market, the token lost its chief
charm--secrecy. The Romans had a better--the ring, which, as the symbol of eternity, like the
Egyptian snake touching its mouth with its tail, was the ideal emblem of love, which, too,
should be, even if it seldom is, eternal.

Of course there were times, ages ago, when the love token had no place. When man was universally
polygamous, and when the form of marriage was by capture, it can scarcely have existed. Nor
could it have known the days when the jeunesse dorée of Babylonia and Assyria assembled before
the temple where twice a year all marriageable girls were brought together to be sold. Probably,
also, the bride of early Britain never heard of one. As she was not permitted to refuse an
offer of marriage, how could she ever have given a token of love?--at least to the man that
became her husband.

But in time even the British maiden knew the love token. An ancient manuscript found in the
Harleian library says that it was decreed that when lovers parted their gifts were to be returned
intact or in an equivalent value, "unless the lover should have had a kiss when his gift was
presented, in which case he can only claim half the value of his gift; the lady, on the contrary,
kiss or no kiss, may claim her gift again!" Surely the first part of this was needless; was
a love token, given in person, ever unaccompanied by a kiss? "However," continues this ordinarily
quite sensible decree, "this extends only to gloves, rings, bracelets and such like small wares."

I protest against "wares" in such association. It sounds something too commercial for so fragile
and fleeting a thing as love. And, too, it is an error to speak of a glove as though it were
of less value than an automobile. In a lover's eyes the merest trifle is the most cherished
token of love. Her carte des dances, for instance--for has not that dainty program and its
tiny pencil been suspended by its silken cord from her soft, white arm? Or--but certainly this
is no trifle--a satin slipper, absurdly small and with adorable curves.

Above all others, however, the miniature is the typical token of love. There lives no woman
whose breath comes more quickly at the sound of some man's voice, or whose fingers tremble
with happiness as they open his longed-for letters; no man whose hand, at a word lightly spoken
of the one most dear to him, would instantly seek, were it still worn, the sword at his side;
no one even faintly remembering the days of youth and longing and sweet unrest, whose heart
does not respond to the mere mention of the miniature. The old family portraits, in their heavy
frames of gilt, are very precious; even the hideous crayons must not be hidden in the garret,
although we may wish they never had been drawn; and in the ancient baronial homes of England
are portrait galleries of which the owners are justly proud.

But these are works treasured largely because of inherited arrogance. At best they are a part
of the furnishing, at times almost a part of the very architecture. How different the miniature!
Whereas the family portrait is for show, here we have that which proverbially in secret has
been cherished. Quickly it has been thrust next a fair, lace-covered and fright-panting bosom;
it has been the sole souvenir of a stolen happiness, an almost voice-gifted reminder of dear,
dead days of the long ago; it was the pledge of his return given in the hasty or hard-fought
flight of the daring youth whose image it is; or perhaps it bears the lady's face, and has
been found on the breast of a warrior slain in battle; or, dearer than holy relic, was still
caressed by the poet troubadour, even though he knew his mistress long ago proved faithless.
More than one queen, for reasons of state, placed at the side of a mighty king, has gazed each
night in hopeless adoration at the miniature of some one far from the throne, yet who, supreme
and alone, reigned in her heart.

No token of love permitted by Venus has been the recipient of half the secret kisses the miniature
may boast; none has so frequently been washed in tears. Almost, in fact, the tiny bit of color
set in bijou jewels might be hidden by a single pressure of the lips, and one tear would be
to it a bath of beauty. Indeed, its very name reveals it as the love token, for it comes to
us from a certain word of French having in English the most velvet sounding and most endearing
meaning in our somewhat limited language of passion.

Miniatures, to be sure, are the love tokens of comparative maturity--and, unfortunately, of
comparative prosperity. Professor Sanford Bell, fellow in Clark University, who has the somewhat
dubious honor of being the pioneer in the scientific treatment of the emotion of love between
the sexes--I dislike that line intensely, but, really, I see no way out of it--has discovered
that "as early as the sixth and seventh year presents are taken from their places of safekeeping,
kissed and fondled as expressions of love for the absent giver." This is very beautiful and,
doubtless, very true, but at the presumable age of the reader--anywhere from eighteen to eighty--one
would kiss a miniature rather than a bird's nest or an apple, however rosy the latter may have
been last winter.

Miniatures, flowers, handkerchiefs, gloves and ribbons, then, ever have been the favorite love
tokens. We in the America of to-day are inclined to substitute houses and lots or steam yachts.
But this is a temporary error. In time we will return to the glove, which means the same as
the honestly outstretched or lovingly clasping hand; and to the flowers, the significance of
each of which was perfectly understood by the old time Greek and Roman, himself gathering the
chaplet that was to grace his sweetheart's brow. Better a thousand times than the wretched
watch chains of hair worn by our fathers would be the embroidered handkerchiefs tucked triumphantly
in their hats by the gallants of Elizabeth's day. That, to be sure, was a bit flamboyantly
boastful; to exhibit a love token is as criminal as to boast of a kiss. The actor-lover is
alone in clamoring for the calcium.

In this secrecy, so essential to the love token, our writers of romance have found salvation.
Even Fielding, to whom we owe the birth of the English novel, could not overlook it--although
we are almost asleep when we reach the point where Billy Booth, about to depart, is presented
by Amelia with a collection of trinkets packed in a casket worked by her own fair hands. It
wasn't the least bit like it, was it?

The fact is, we must turn to France for the real thing, and to whom more satisfyingly than
to Dumas and his reckless musketeers, each of whom, as well as the author, dwelt in "a careless
paradise," and constantly at hand had some reminder of her who, for the moment, was the one
woman on earth. We scarcely have a bowing acquaintance with these three worthies before the
valiant D'Artagnan makes the almost fatal but well-intentioned mistake of calling the attention
of Aramis to the fact that he has stepped upon a handkerchief--a handkerchief Aramis, in fact,
has covered with his foot to conceal from a crowd of roisterers; a love token from Mme. de
Bois-Tracy--a dainty affair, all richly embroidered, and with a coronet in one corner.

Melodramatic? Certainly. Cheap? I'm not so sure--in fact, no! not to any man whose heart is
not far grayer than his beard. For then commenced as pretty a race as ever was--Athos, Porthos,
Aramis and D'Artagnan speeding from Paris to London, D'Artagnan bearing a letter; each in turn
to take it as they are killed by the cardinal's hirelings--all this to save the honor of Anne
of Austria by bringing back the love token given by her to the Duke of Buckingham, who keeps
it in a tiny chapel draped with gold-worked tapestry of Persian silk, on an altar beneath a
portrait of the woman he loves.

D'Artagnan's part in that adventure is the most gallant deed known in all the literature of
love tokens. There have been similar gifts that were more tragic; what was the famous diamond
necklace but a hopeless, mad love token from the Cardinal de Rohan to Marie Antoinette? And
there have been those that were more sad; recall the great Mirabeau, dying amid flowers that
were themselves death, drinking the hasheesh that was poison, placing on his forehead the tiny
handkerchief drenched with the tears of the one beautiful woman that disinterestedly had loved
him; the one that, forced from his last bedside, had refused a casket filled with gold and
had left behind this final, mute and eloquent token of her love.

The poets, of course, ever have had a greater affection for love tokens than have the novelists.
With some this has been real; with others "copy." Keats, who, through all his brief life, knew
the consummate luxury of sadness, had on his deathbed the melancholy ecstasy of a letter from
his love--and this he lacked the courage to read, for it would have anguished him with a clearer
knowledge of all the exquisite happiness he was leaving on earth; his love, like his art, having
been beautiful in its immaturity. And so this last token of love, unread, was placed at his
own desire beside him in his coffin.

Decidedly we are less touched by Tom Moore, who desired that, at his death, his heart should
be presented to his mistress:

  Tell her it liv'd upon smiles and wine
    Of the brightest hue while it lingered here.

Which fact must have been a great comfort to the recipient of this final love token.

But Byron was the man for love tokens. To "Mary" on receiving her picture, to "a lady" who
sent him a lock of her hair braided with his own, and to scores of others, he wrote still living
lines. Several such verses seem now more ludicrous than lovely. To her who presented him with
the velvet band that had bound her tresses, he vowed:

  Oh! I will wear it next my heart;
    'Twill bind my soul in bonds to thee;
  From me again 'twill ne'er depart,
    But mingle in the grave with me.

This was written in 1806. He was then eighteen. Think of the love tokens "binding his soul,"
and otherwise encumbering him, during the eighteen years that followed, and of all those, if
he kept his promises, that now "mingle in the grave" with him! Fortunately, however, the poet
had the happy facility of disencumbering himself. His love tokens to one unfortunate were a
chain and lute. The gifts were charmed, "her truth in absence to divine." The chain shivered
in the grasp of any other that took it from her neck; the chords of the lute were mute when
another attempted to sing to her of his love. And how in his element was Byron when he could
write to her:

  'Tis past--to them and thee adieu--
    False heart, frail chain and silent lute.

But, despite Moore's insincerity and Byron's vagaries, the man of to-day more frequently, and
longer than woman, cherishes his tokens of love.

How often do men bring breach of promise suits? Women--none possibly that you or I personally
know--will calmly enter the courtroom and brutally exhibit their love letters and love tokens--the
most sacred things on earth, are they not?--to indifferent jurors, gleeful reporters and the
gloating public.

Compare such a courtroom scene with the floral games of the Toulouse of long ago, and the legendary
origin of the golden violet. Imprisoned by her father because of her love, the girl threw from
between the bars a bouquet to her lover--a bouquet of a violet, an eglantine and a marigold.
In a later siege, the lover saved the father's life, but lost his own. Dying, he took the flowers
from his bosom and implored that they be returned to his sweetheart. The maiden's death followed
quickly. All she had on earth she left, in memory of her love token, to the celebration of
the floral games, and the golden violet became the troubadours' most cherished prize.

There are still such girls--but they are not often met with, and, once met with, are likely
to have changed on a second meeting. "Pale ghosts of a passionate past come thronging," at
times, to them perhaps; more likely they join with their companions in cynically singing:

  But now how we smile at the fond love token,
    And laugh at the sweet words spoken low.

This phase of woman's character is not particularly novel. Poor Sir John Suckling, long curled,
arrayed in velvets and satins, a princely host, seemingly the typical gallant, yet secretly
devoured by melancholy, a suicide at the end, doubtless knew whereof he spoke when he said:

  I am confirmed a woman can
  Love this, or that, or any man:
  This day she's melting hot,
  To-morrow swears she knows you not.

The twentieth century girl, of the rare, real sort, cherishes her love tokens not, perhaps,
with the same, but with an equal, affection as she of troubadour days. Her tokens, to be sure,
are different:

  Your boxing gloves slyly I've fastened
    Out of sight in the corner, right here.
  I'd put them up high, but I "dassent,"
    You see it would look rather queer!

And that the twentieth century girl of this sort, even if boxing gloves are love tokens with
her, is just the same dear, old-time girl we all love, she proves by her ultimate confession:

  Dear old chap, I'm not given to gushing,
    You know, but I'm tired to-night.
        · · · · ·
  I think I am centuries older,
    Yet if you were here I dare say,
  I should put my head down on your shoulder
    And cry--you remember my way!

Despite this up-to-dateness, this true good fellowship, or perhaps because of it, many women
still living there are that have known the anguish of a love token that should have been destroyed
in the long ago--in the long ago when the heartbreak had come--and gone, as they thought. There
have been women of supreme beauty and of brainy splendor, dressed to descend where the words
were to be spoken, "Until death do you part"--who at that last moment of freedom have seized
with a curse and angrily torn into shreds the cherished souvenir of a love of--oh, when was
it? Other brides there have been, arranged for the sacrifice, that have locked the door while
there was yet time, and, kissing the love token of that long ago, have thrust it into their
bosom, that their heart might beat against it even while, kneeling at the altar, they whispered,
"I will."

You don't believe it? Oh, very well; some day this madness, that is rearoused by a faded violet
or a time-stained ribbon, may enter into even your life. But I hope you may be spared it.

A man?
    I am Beauty--I am Youth--I am Life--come to me!--together we
    shall be Love. Our lives will flow on like a dream--in one
    eternal kiss.

Has enough been said to cause you to wonder why no one has written the history of the love
token? Such a stately and wondrous work it should make! Why has no one honored it with even
the rambling lightness of an essay? Elia could have done that much--and Leigh Hunt have done
it even better. Lamb, it is true, has talked with quaint airiness of valentines, which are
a sort of love token, and has admitted, poor old bachelor! that the postman's knock on St.
Valentine's Day brings "visions of love, of Cupids, of Hymens!--delightful, eternal commonplaces;
which, having been, will always be."

But this, while, perhaps, the essence of the love token, is not its history, and I shall hazard
a guess as to why that is not written. The reason is that it is not only the cherished token
of a woman's love, but is also the irritating reminder of her equality with man. At the altar
she unhesitatingly swears to love eternally--an oath sometimes beyond her power to keep; but
in increasing numbers she refuses to make the promise of obedience--a promise always possible
to fulfill. With the freedom that in this generation is hers, even before marriage, has come
a fierce desire for monopoly, and to such a one the token of a single love has lost its tenderness.
She keeps such tokens by the score, with all the pride of a Sioux warrior in his array of scalps.
The man lovingly cherishes a single one. To her he is an incident in life's story. To him she
is its climax.

With this increased freedom permitted in woman's conduct, the love tokens she gives have become
even more treasured, for the liberty she now possesses has turned her love tokens into fertilizers
of a slumbering jealousy. As they were unknown when woman had no choice, was bought or captured,
so they became again unknown in the one-time commonplace of domesticity, wherein there was
no more room for the preservation of love tokens than there would be in a seraglio under lock
and key. Non-possession, or, at least, uncertainty, is for the love token a perfectly safe
endowment policy in the insurance company of passion. Thus it is that the liberty to-day given
woman in American society has made the love token more treasured than ever it has been in all
the history of the world. Yet no one writes its history; not only because of the angering equality
it bespeaks, but also, and chiefly, because the men that could write it best are those that
mingle something akin to a curse with the kiss they secretly press upon some trifling souvenir,
men to whom it has brought suffering, or to whom only a hopeless longing after ideal love is
represented by the token--which is rarely the evidence of triumph, but rather of regret, the
reminder of something lost or unattained.

But even those that suffer most at sight of some such trifle, those to whom it would be anguish
to write its history, would not for a throne part with it. And yet you, perhaps, are one of
those that will have no conception of the meaning of all that I have said. Do you know what
it is never to have felt the supremity of the love token? Are you so engulfed in the greed
for gold that it could not touch you even were it to be slipped into your grasping fingers--so
keen for power or so lustful for fame? Or you may be of those that believe romantic love to
belong to the abnormal. But, in either case, even to you, like De Maupassant's horror-stricken
youth dragged to the threshold of the priesthood, the day may come when you will shriek:

    To never love--to turn from the sight of all beauty--to put out
    one's own eyes--to hide forever crouching in the chill shadows
    of some cloister--to visit none but the dying--to watch by
    unknown corpses!

For that is what it is to live without touching your lips to a token of love--even of a love
that is lost.

TIMON CRUZ

  Oh, lovely is the quinta in the warm and sunny morn,
  Acequima's ripple softly to the coming of the dawn;
  Fresh breezes toss the branches green, the chill of dusk is past,
  Sheer joy of living fills the world! Rare hour, too sweet to last!
  The roses fling their petals wide, their fragrance fills the air;
  It mingles with the orange buds which blossom everywhere;
  The birds chant loud their matins; all the earth seems newly born.
  Ah, happy is the quinta in the warm and sunny morn.

  Oh, lovely is the quinta in the quiet afternoon
  When hushed and calm the breezes lie; the earth in lang'rous swoon
  Receives the sun's hot kisses; and the watchful hawk on high
  In breathless ether lonely hangs; faint rings the parrot's cry.
  The stillness is idyllic. As the slow sun swings round
  One feels earth's pulses beating; hears them throbbing through the ground,
  The grass where drowsy insects hum, the eaves where pigeons croon;
  Ah, lovely is the quinta in the tranquil afternoon.

  Oh, lovely is the quinta in the gorgeous tropic night,
  When earth is drenched with sweetness, and the moonshine glimmers white
  Across the path, 'mid shadows wide, and outlines, too, the wall
  Where stand the broad banana trees and lemon flowers fall.
  A whisper low beyond the wall, a name below the breath--
  For Life is full of treachery, yet Love is Lord of Death--
  The tinkle of a gay guitar, a cry, a horse in flight--
  Ay Dios! guard the quinta in the gorgeous tropic night.

                                             AUGUSTA DAVIES OGDEN.

AT HER WINDOW

(Serenade.)

By FRANK DEMPSTER SHERMAN

  Come to thy window, Love,
    And through the lattice bars
  Show me a fairer sky above.
    With two more lovely stars;
      So shall the summer night
      Know new depths of delight,
      And I in dreams grow wise
      Remembering thine eyes.

  Come to thy window, Sweet,
    And wide the lattice swing,
  That vagrant zephyrs may repeat
    What words my lips shall sing
      Unto your ears anew,
      Up from the fragrant dew,
      That all your dreams may be
      Like those that gladden me.

  Come to thy window:--soft!
    Thy footstep light I hear.
  About me silence, but aloft
    A melody most dear.
      It is thy voice that fills
      The night's blue cup and spills
      Into the air the word
      A rose breathes to a bird.

  Come to thy window:--so,
    I glimpse the gleam of grace.
  Rose of all roses now I know
    Featured in thy fair face:
      Now all love's joy is mine
      Save one heart that is thine.
      Dearest, my dream is this--
      Thy heart's beat and thy kiss!

THE LATE BLOSSOMING OF ELVIRA

By HARRIET WHITNEY DURBIN

In the house of Lawrence there were many daughters, and the eldest thereof was Elvira.

At the age of thirty-two Elvira, to the budding younger Lawrences, was hopelessly aged and
sere, and Eulalie, in particular, a lately opened blossom of eighteen, made it a matter of
daily duty to keep Elvira's soul from closing its eyes, even in the briefest nap, upon this fact.

Elvira had grown into her spinsterhood without rebellion and with the quietude of mind conferred
by an even disposition. She had been a trifle old-maidish in her youth. That was in the era
of bangs and frizzes and heads of hair that resembled ill-used dish mops.

"Gaudy but not neat," had been Elvira's comment, and she let her light brown locks lie softly
close to her head, undipped and unkinked. And mankind, with eyes accustomed to the ever present
moppy snarls and curls, vaguely supposed Elvira to be behind the times, and amiably passed her by.

Later, Elvira developed the spinsterly accomplishment of darning her own delicate silk stockings
to finished perfection, and was promptly importuned by all the young Lawrences to darn theirs.
She consented--and her doom was pronounced.

When twenty-five years of life had deepened the smooth pink of Elvira's cheek and amplified
the lissome curves of her figure, her next younger sister, Hazel, a girl of twenty-two, had
asked her to sit in the drawing room and play propriety on the evenings when the younger sister
received callers, and she had done so.

When the matrimonial destiny of Hazel was fulfilled, Marion was coming forward to be chaperoned;
then Rosamond; and now--thorniest bud on the Lawrence family tree--Eulalie was fully blown,
and quite alive to the beguilements of dress and the desirability of beaux.

Eulalie's exactions were upsetting to the tranquil mind. Eulalie wanted--not possession of
the earth, but to be the earth, and to be duly revolved around by friends, relatives and countless
planetary lovers. Elvira's days grew turbid and her nights devoid of repose.

There had been no comforting maternal support to nestle against since the birth of the youngest
Lawrence flower, and the paternal bush towered out of reach in an aloof atmosphere of bonds
and rentals and dividends. One old-fashioned point of view he enforced upon his children's
vision: the elder daughter must supervise and chaperon the younger ones to the last jot, and
it must be done without disturbance of the business atmosphere.

So Elvira warred with her daily briers alone. Reproach and appeal alike spattered off Eulalie's
buoyant nature as a water sprinkler's steadiest shower rolls in globules from the crisp, unmoistened
leaves of the nasturtium.

"Spinsters are so fussy," she deplored, comfortably. "Just because they have no beaux themselves,
they can't bear to see a girl have a caller now and then."

"My dear, keep up a slight acquaintance with truth," besought Elvira; "a caller now and then
would give me a chance to mend my stockings and to get to bed by nine o'clock a few nights
in the week. As it is, I have to idle my time away evening after evening, sitting and grinning
at your flocks and herds of young men until I am so sleepy I have to go and coax pa to drop
a big slipper on the floor overhead, to indicate that it's bedtime. Hazel and Marion and Rosamond
encouraged only a moderate number of beaux, and them only until they naturally paired off with
the right ones and could scat the rest off. But you hang on to them all. There is hardly an
evening you don't have from one to five on hand, though you surely can't want them."

Eulalie giggled joyously.

"I do want them--every tinker of them. Poor old girl, you never knew the fun of keeping a lot
of men in a continual squirm. However, I think possibly what you call the 'right one' is bobbing
up."

"Most fervently do I hope so," sighed Elvira.

The strain of excessive chaperoning was wearing upon her.

"Your sister looks tired," a late acquisition of Eulalie's made observation, compassionately,
one evening, seeing Elvira nod over her uncongenial Battenberg-ing by the piano lamp.

"Yes--she's such an early-to-bed crank," Eulalie cheerfully replied, "and I suppose it isn't
a lot of fun to sit over there alone doing Battenberg with us chatting just out of good hearing
range."

Hugh Griswold had been blessed with a good, old-fashioned mother, and among the precepts bequeathed
her son had been one not so distant of kinship from the Golden Rule:

"Treat everybody well."

"Suppose we move into good hearing range, then?" he suggested.

"Oh, you can go, if you want to." Eulalie's eyebrows curved into brown velvet crescents. "I'm
very well satisfied here. Did I tell you Major Yates was going to bring me a pair of guinea
pigs to-morrow?"

The next time Hugh Griswold called he brought his uncle, an elderly widower, with a bald, intellectual
forehead and large billows of whisker. The uncle beamed upon Eulalie with fatherly benignance,
and then established friendly communication with Elvira.

"I thought it might brisk things up a little for Miss Elvira to let him come." Hugh's apologetic
tone seemed, somehow, the result of Eulalie's upward-arching eyebrows.

"Oh," said she--a cool little crescendo.

II.

A demure black bow in Elvira's hair drew Eulalie's inquisitive glance at dinner the next evening.

"Since when have you taken to vain adornments?" she asked, an edgy emphasis on the pronoun.
"It's miles out of style, you know."

Elvira received the information with tranquillity.

"Since when have you taken to observing what I wore? Same old bow that has decked me for some
weeks. I never regarded it as the latest importation."

"Oh! I didn't know but you fancied Mr. Griswold's uncle was coming again."

"Not having learned to fish in my youth, I should hardly begin now." Elvira partook peacefully
of her soup.

