7th. On rising, to our great surprise, we found ourselves left by the tide in a shallow pool
of water, surrounded by rocky hills; nor could we at all discover the situation of our skin-boat,
till after the water had begun to rise, and raised us above the banks of our watery dungeon,
when, with great astonishment, not having been able to find it on the surface of the sea, and
accidentally directing our eyes upwards, we saw it perched upon the top of a considerable eminence,
and apparently on shore. We then landed, and ascending a rising ground, beheld with some terror,
the wonderful changes occasioned by the tides. Our course was visible to the extent of two
or three English miles, but the sea had left it, and we were obliged to remain in this dismal
place, till about noon, before the water had risen sufficiently to carry us out. We now began
to entertain fears, lest we might not always be able to find proper harbours, so as to avoid
being left high and dry at low water; for having anchored in nine fathoms last night, we were
left in one and a half this morning. Uttakiyok and Thukkekina were with us on shore. The eminence
on which we stood was overgrown with vaccinia and other plants, and we saw among them marks
of its being visited by hares. Near the summit was a spot, covered with red sand, which stained
one's fingers, and among it were fragments of a substance resembling cast iron. We seemed here
to stand on a peninsula connected by an isthmus with another island, or with the continent;
but probably at high water it may be a separate island.

As soon as the tide would permit, we set out, and proceeded towards a cape called Kattaktok,
surrounded by small islands. Between the cape and our anchoring place, we passed, on the left,
the following objects; Keglo, a broad deep bay; Katarusialik, a headland, probably of the continent;
Ukkasiksalik, (meaning a place where soap stone is found), a peninsula; and to the right of
the latter place, an island, Kikkertarsoak, which lies at the entrance of the Great Bay, or
estuary of the great river Kangertlualuksoak. We sailed with a strong, but favourable wind,
with some rain, between the peninsula and the island; and not trusting to the depth of the
water at ebb-tide, sent two kayaks forward to sound. They soon brought us into a good harbour,
where we cast anchor about half past five P.M.

Kangertlualuksoak river was the spot to which we had principally directed our views. It lies
about 140 miles S.S.W. of Cape Chudleigh. By an observation at its mouth its latitude appeared
to be 58° 57'. But we had no means of finding the longitude. At its entrance the bay runs rather
S.S.E. for about ten or twelve English miles, then turns due S.E. for six or eight more, and
after that S.W. At the second turn towards the S.E. there is the greatest quantity of wood,
chiefly Larch, but of moderate size. We particularly noticed a fine slope facing the south,
which appeared the most pleasant part of the bay, to which a vessel might approach and anchor
with convenience, there being from 24 to 30 fathoms water. We also imagined that the entrance
from the sea would be free from obstructions, as no islands are seen in that direction. Uttakiyok
likewise declared, that there was no bar or sunken rocks near the mouth of the bay.

We found no inhabitants on our arrival, but on the 13th, a whole company of people from Killinek
joined us.

Our transactions in the bay of Kangertlualuksoak, from the 7th, are here noticed more in detail.

August 8th. We landed, and went in search of our people, who had spent the night in tents on
shore. Okkiksuk accompanied us to the top of a hill, overlooking the bay Ittimnekoktok, where
we had anchored the day before. We saw it quite dry, and full of large fragments of rock. Turning
towards the land, we discovered some wood at a distance. The weather being calm and warm, the
musquitoes were excessively troublesome. The vallies here are overgrown with verdure, and the
hills pretty well clothed with moss, and berry-bearing plants; but we could not continue our
walk, on account of the musquitoes, which persecuted us unmercifully, and drove us back to
our tents. All our men were out, two on that side on which we had landed, and the others having
crossed the bay in their kayaks, were employed in hunting reindeer. Jonathan only remained
at home. In the afternoon he accompanied us in the small boat, to a hill, situated to the South
of our station, at about two miles distant, where we landed, and went up the country, but found
nothing much worth notice. We observed, that round the headland near us, the water was very
rough, with eddies and whirlpools, occasioned by the rising of the high tides. On returning
to our little boat, we found it aground. We therefore gathered some drift-wood, of which there
was plenty, and made a good fire, at which we sat down and regaled ourselves with some biscuit
and beer. Having pushed the boat into the water, we set out, but owing to the violence of the
current had hard work to get to the great boat, and did not arrive till dark. Jonas saluted
us from on board, by firing off his piece in token of success, and we found that he had got
two, and his companion three reindeer, and a small black bear. The carcases were left at the
tents, where part was cooked, and a mess brought to us on board, which proved an agreeable
repast after our fatigue. Jonas and his family spent the night on board, the rest of the Esquimaux
in their tents on shore.

9th. Jonas having found a good harbour on the other side of the bay, and the current being
here very strong, we sailed across and anchored there. The strand was even, and full of smooth
rocks, above high water mark. The bottom of the bay is mud, and a slimy substance, covering
all the stones and pebbles, left by the tide, makes walking very troublesome.

The land is not high, but pleasant, covered with moss, with many small ponds, and marks of
being frequented by reindeer.

10th. We went farther up the bay in the skin-boat, with Jonathan, Uttakiyok, Thukkekina, Paul,
David, and Okkiksuk. At a short distance from the place where we had landed yesterday, we came
to a fine green terrace, overgrown with low shrubs and bushes, which delighted us much. From
hence, a woody valley, extending to the left, seemed to invite us to take that course into
the country, but we would not waste our time by examining it. On sailing farther up the bay,
and turning round the abovementioned terrace, we came to a small inlet, dry at low water, on
the left shore. Its banks were pleasantly covered with low bushes, interspersed with higher
trees, and the place seemed to us very suitable for a settlement. From hence we perceived,
at a short distance, on the opposite coast, a cape or headland, over which the tops of trees
made their appearance. We sailed towards it, and found behind it a tract covered with low wood,
chiefly larch and pine: on landing we saw the tracks of rein-deer, which had just left the
spot. Jonathan, in an instant, ran like a young man for his gun, and with it into the wood.
We followed him for two or three miles, but saw nothing but the track of the deer. The country
inland seems in general level, with some low hills, and many ponds; without wood, but overgrown
with rein-deer moss. No success attended our huntsman, and in the evening we met again in the
boat. Brother Kmoch had kept up with Jonathan, and saw, among the bushes, the same kind of
large partridge, or American wild pheasant, which is found about Okkak, but seems only to live
in woods. It was a hen, with a covey of young birds, one of which which he caught, examined,
and let go again, nor would he take or shoot the hen, out of compassion to the young brood.

Brother Kohlmeister had meanwhile gone farther up the bay, and thought he had discovered the
entrance of the river, but no fresh water appearing, we must still have been a great way off
its influx into the bay.

We now lighted a fire, boiled coffee, and cooked a dish of reindeer venison. The weather was
warm, and the night fine and clear, but frosty. Having brought our travelling-beds with us
on shore, (see page 34), we crept into them, and spent the night at the fire-side, the Esquimaux
lying down anywhere about us. In the morning, the whole country was covered with hoar-frost,
and the straw we had lain upon was frozen fast to the ground.

August 11th.--We rose by break of day, and after breakfast, sailed across the bay, and landed
at the second small inlet, with an intention of penetrating into the country, but the returning
warmth of the weather by day, and the myriads of musquitoes we had to contend with, rendered
us unable to execute our purpose.

The Missionaries and Jonathan ascended a hill, from which a great tract of country might be
overlooked. It was full of wood, as far as the eye could reach. Near the inlet some places
seemed boggy, or covered with grass. From hence a valley stretched into the country, with a
small lake in it, about two or three miles distant. Berries were every where in abundance.
The summits of the hills had no wood upon them, but much reindeer-moss.

On our return, being about a mile from our landing-place, we saw our skin-boat in the middle
of the bay, and fired a gun as a signal for it to come to us. The Esquimaux had five rein-deer
in the boat, which Uttakiyok had perceived on the opposite bank. He had followed them in his
kayak, driven them into the water, and killed them there. When hard pressed, reindeer soon
take to the water, and swim so well, that a four-oared boat can scarcely come up with them,
but an Esquimaux, in his kayak will overtake them. They therefore, if possible, drive them
into the water, being then sure of their game.

After dining on part of the venison, we returned to the great boat. On the passage, we thought
we perceived at a considerable distance a black bear, and Uttakiyok, elated with his recent
success, hoped to gain new laurels. He entered his kayak and proceeded as cautiously as possible
along the shore, towards the spot, landed, climbed the hill, so as not to be observed, but
when he had got just within gun-shot, perceived, that his bear was a black stone. This adventure
furnished the company with merriment for the remainder of the voyage to the boat, which we
reached about six P.M.

When we got on board the boat, we found that all the women had taken refuge in it, thinking
that they had seen Indians onshore. The men therefore immediately landed, to take care of the
forsaken tents. This was no doubt a false alarm, for we never discovered any traces of them
during our stay. To the south of Hopedale the Indians and Esquimaux sometimes meet, but as
the Hopedale Esquimaux seek to cultivate their friendship, quarrels and bloodshed seldom occur.
In Ungava, however, though they often exchange tokens of friendship, they are apt to give way
to their national jealousies; and provocations being aggravated, their meetings now and then
terminate in murder. The Esquimaux are much afraid of the Indians, who are a more nimble and
active race.

12th. Having finished reconnoitring the neighbourhood, and gathered all the information concerning
it, which our means would permit, and likewise fixed upon the green slope or terrace above
described, as the most suitable place for a settlement, on account of the abundance of wood
in its neighbourhood, we made preparations to proceed. Uttakiyok, who had spent more than one
winter in the Ungava country, assured us, that there was here an ample supply of provisions,
both in summer and winter, which Jonathan also credited, from his own observation. The former
likewise expressed himself convinced, that if we would form a settlement here, many Esquimaux
would come to us from all parts. As for Esquimaux, there appeared no want of those things upon
which they live, the sea abounding with whitefish, seals, sea fowl, &c. and the land with reindeer,
hares, bears, and other animals. The people from Killinek declared their intention of removing
hither, if we would come and dwell among them, and are even now in the habit of visiting this
place every summer. Our own company even expressed a wish to spend the winter here.

This being the day before our departure, we erected, on two opposite hills, at the entrance
of the bay, high marks of stones, and on the declivity of a hill to the right, a board, into
which we had cut an inscription, thus--

We raised and fixed this tablet with some solemnity, in presence of Uttakiyok and his family,
as representatives of the people of Ungava, and of our own company, and hoisted the British
flag alongside of it, while another was displayed at the same time in the boat. 11, 1. Philippians,
2, 10, 11.

13th. We set sail, about six A.M. with a gentle breeze, which however soon fell away entirely,
and obliged us to take to our oars. Near the mouth of the bay, we met several kayaks, coming
towards us. They were Esquimaux from Killinek, who expressed regret at not having sooner heard
of our being here; some came on board, and traded with our people. We presented them with a
little tobacco, for which they were very thankful.

In order to get well out of the bay, we first steered North, and then passed to the S.W. between
a peninsula Nauyat, lying to the left of the entrance, and seven small islands and rocks on
the right, towards the island of Arvarvik, about six or seven miles distant, where we were
obliged to cast anchor in an exposed situation, the wind having become contrary. There was
a strong swell during the night, which violently agitated our boat.

Arvarvik is about five miles in circumference. It is covered with the bones of whales, which
the Esquimaux catch here in their kayaks. The coast is surrounded by a great number of small
low islands, with deep pools between them. Into these the whales stray at high water, and at
the ebbing of the tide, are prevented finding their way back again. The Esquimaux then pursue
and kill them with harpoons. In the island are ponds of fresh water, and some low hills, overgrown
with moss. A great number of sea-fowl, and also reindeer, are found upon it.

On the shore we found great quantities of a red jasper, or iron-stone, the same which occurs
throughout the coast, from Killinek to South river, not as a stratum, but in lumps, and generally
below high water mark.

The Esquimaux who landed on the continent reported, that about two miles inland, there was
much low wood.

14th. We left our unpleasant anchorage, and returned to a place where the skin-boat had lain
during the night, as it was sheltered from the South wind, which had risen considerably.

15th. Our people went out to hunt reindeer, and returned in the evening with two. The wind
shifted to the west, and blew with violence. We spent again an uneasy night.

16th. Brother Kmoch went on shore and returned with a parcel of stones for examination. We
now began to feel some anxiety on account of the great loss of time we were suffering here
by contrary winds.

17th. About eight o'clock we set sail, the wind having come round to the S.E. with a cloudy
sky. We passed several nameless islands, at the distance of about a mile from the shore. In
the afternoon, it began to rain hard, and after having sailed about twelve miles, we cast anchor
near a long point of land, called Kernertut, by which we were sheltered from the wind, which
had again turned to the South-west. The sky however was clear, and the beginning of the night
pleasant, with beautiful appearances of the Aurora Borealis. Most of our people, and with them
Uttakiyok, had gone in the skin-boat higher up the bay, but it was too shallow to admit of
our following them. Only Jonas and his children, and the two boys Okkiksuk and Mammak, were
left with us on board.

During the night the wind veered round to the N.E. and blew a gale, which increased in violence
till day-break.

18th. The sea now rose to a tremendous height, such as we had never before experienced, and
by the change of wind, we were exposed to the whole of its fury. The rain fell in torrents.
With much difficulty we succeeded in lowering our after-mast. Jonathan and the rest of our
company on shore, were obliged to be passive spectators of the dreadful scene, waiting the
event in silent anguish. They quitted their tents, and came forward to some eminences near
the beach, where, by lifting up their hands, and other gestures, they expressed terror, bordering
on despair. Frequently the boat was hid from their view by the waves, which ran mountains high.
They expected every moment that we should break loose from our anchors, and the boat be driven
on the rocks. The length of our cables was here of the greatest advantage to us. About noon,
the rope by which the small boat was fastened, broke. It was impossible to render us any assistance,
till the tide turned, when the raging of the sea, and the wind, began to abate. As soon as
it was practicable, Jonathan and the other men came to us in the skin-boat. He seemed quite
overcome with joy, and, not able to utter a word, held out his hand, and shed tears of gratitude
that he met us again alive, for he had given us up for lost.

We now endeavoured to bring the great boat closer to the shore, landed, pitched our tent, and
gave thanks to God for the merciful deliverance we had just experienced. Indeed all our people
most fervently joined in praise to Him for the preservation of our lives. A warm dinner was
soon prepared, by which we were much refreshed.

As soon as the tide had ebbed sufficiently for it, our people went to the rock, on which the
small boat lay, and got her into the water. To our great surprize we found, that she had received
no material injury.

Jonathan and Jonas now became more and more anxious about our situation. They represented to
us, that, if we attempted to proceed farther, we might probably be compelled to remain here
the whole winter, as the stormy season was fast approaching. They added, that to them, it would
be of little consequence, but that they were concerned on our account.

Though we had not said any thing as yet that might tend to shake the confidence of our party,
yet we felt no small degree of perplexity concerning present appearances. During the six days
since we left George's River, we had made little more than fourteen or fifteen miles, and were
at least, as far as we could judge, seventy or eighty from the river Koksoak, which we had
fixed upon as the final object of the voyage, being the outermost western boundary of the Ungava
country. Insurmountable difficulties seemed now to present themselves, owing partly to contrary
winds and cold weather, and partly to loss of time, for we had been already two months on the
voyage, and had not yet obtained our aim: so that our return might be unseasonably late, if
we proceeded. We could not possibly make up our minds to spend the winter here, as we had not
a sufficient supply of provisions, and knew what distress it would occasion to our Brethren
at Okkak.

We felt quite at a loss what to do in this dilemma, and our path seemed enveloped in obscurity.
We remembered, that "to the upright there ariseth a light in the darkness," (Ps. 112, 4): that
is, to them who fear and trust in the Lord, and sincerely desire to know and do His will, He
will reveal it. In His name we had entered upon this voyage, the only ultimate object of which
was, the conversion of a benighted, neglected nation, in one of the remotest corners of the
earth. 16, 9.) was, even in this desolate region, present with us, and would hear and answer
our prayers. 30, 19. Also, Dan. 10, 19; Jer. 16, 21; Isa. 43, 2, &c. The mercies, also, which
we had already experienced, excited within us a sense of the deepest gratitude and most firm
trust; and we therefore told our people, that we indeed participated in their concern, would
take the subject into serious consideration, and acquaint them with our determination on the
morrow.

19th. In the morning we met in our tent, where we were safe from the intrusion of the Esquimaux,
to confer together upon this most important subject. We weighed all the circumstances connected
with it, maturely and impartially, as in the presence of God, and, not being able to come to
any decision, where reasons for and against the question seemed to hold such an even balance,
we determined to commit our case to Him, who has promised, that "if two of His people shall
agree on earth, as touching any thing that they shall ask, it shall be done for them," (Matth.
O that all men knew the comfort and happiness of a mind devoted unto, and firmly trusting in
God in all things! We were, indeed, glad and thankful that the Lord had inclined the heart
of this man, who but yesterday seemed to be quite dispirited, to take this resolution, for
much depended upon him, and the rest followed him without difficulty. Indeed they all submitted
to our determination with a willing mind, and their expressions of resignation affected us much.

During the day, the men had been out a-hunting, when Uttakiyok killed three reindeer, which
occasioned great rejoicing, and helped to make our people forget the frightful scenes of yesterday.
The country is full of black looking rocks, between which reindeer-moss and berries grow in
plenty. The shore exhibited still many marks of the violence of the storm.

20th. We proceeded with a favourable wind at N.E. Our course lay S.W. across a broad bay, then,
after doubling a point, across another bay of about the same breadth, to an island Allukpaluk,
which we passed on the right, and on the left, another island, Nipkotok. At a considerable
distance a-head lay the islands Pitsiolak, opposite a headland of the continent called Tuktutok.

The sky had been from the morning cloudy, the wind became unfavourable and violent, and about
noon heavy rain came on. Not being well able to proceed, on account of the violence of the
wind, we cast anchor on the west side of Pitsiolak, about 2 P.M. but perceiving a thunderstorm
rising from the western horizon, with very black clouds, threatening to drive us on shore if
we remained at this anchorage, we weighed as quickly as possible, and endeavoured to get to
the other side of the island.

Meanwhile a most tremendous storm of thunder, lightning, and rain overtook us. The claps of
thunder followed the flashes without interval, and the lightning seemed to strike into the
water close to our boat, while the wind carried the spray into the air like smoke. Providentially
we had doubled the northern point before the worst came on, and got to an anchor under shelter
of the land. The storm passed by swiftly, it grew calm, the sun broke out, and the weather
became uncommonly fine with us, though at a distance we saw the black clouds, and heard the
hollow murmuring of the thunder for a long time.

