Greene's "Arcadia" was published in 1587, and bears in its fanciful title of "Camilla's Alarum
to Slumber Euphues," the evidence of its inspiration. Even among pastorals the improbability
of this story is surpassing. Damocles, king of Arcadia, banished his daughter with her husband
and son. Sephestia, the daughter, arrived in a part of Arcadia entirely inhabited by shepherds.
There she becomes a shepherdess under the name of Samela, and meets her husband, Maximus, who
is already tending sheep in the same neighborhood with the name of Melicertus. Strange to say,
Sephestia fails to recognize her husband, and receives his addresses as a favored lover. Soon
after, Pleusidippus, Sephestia's son, is stolen by pirates, and adopted by the king of Thessaly,
in whose court he grows up. The fame of Sephestia's beauty reaches her father and her son,
who, ignorant of the relationship in consequence of Sephestia's change of name, both set out
to woo the celebrated shepherdess. The repulsive scene of the same woman being the object at
once of the passion of her father and her son is ended by Damocles carrying off Sephestia to
his own court, where he proposes to execute Maximus as his successful rival, and Sephestia
for her obstinate refusal of his addresses. The Delphian oracle, however, interposes in time
by declaring the identity of Sephestia, and the story terminates as usual in weddings and reconciliations.

The conventional shepherd's life is well described in the "Arcadia," and the pastoral tone
is skilfully maintained. The language, however, is confessedly euphuistic, as may be seen by
the author's comment on a speech of Samela:

    Samela made this reply, because she had heard him so superfine, as
    if Ephebus had learned him to refine his mother's tongue; wherefore
    though he had done it of an ink horn desire to be eloquent, and
    Melicertus thinking Samela had learned with Lucilla in Athens to
    anatomize wit, and speak none but similes, imagined she smoothed
    her talk to be thought like Sappho, Phaon's paramour.

The following passage could hardly be distinguished from the writings of Lyly:

    I had thought, Menaphon, that he which weareth the bay leaf had
    been free from lightning, and the eagle's pen a preservative
    against thunder; that labour had been enemy to love, and the
    eschewing of idleness an antidote against fancy; but I see by
    proof, there is no adamant so hard, but the blood of a goat will
    make soft, no fort so well defended, but strong battery will entry,
    nor any heart so pliant to restless labours, but enchantments of
    love will overcome.

Melicertus addresses Samela, whom he finds feeding her flocks, in the following terms:

    Mistress of all eyes that glance but at the excellence of your
    perfection, sovereign of all such as Venus hath allowed for lovers,
    Oenone's over-match, Arcadia's comet, Beauty's second comfort,
    all hail! Seeing you sit like Juno when she first watched her white
    heifer on the Lincen downs, as bright as silver Phoebe mounted on
    the high top of the ruddy element, I was, by a strange attractive
    force, drawn, as the adamant draws this iron, or the jet the straw,
    to visit your sweet self in the shade, and afford you such company
    as a poor swain may yield without offense; which, if you shall
    vouch to deign of, I shall be as glad of such accepted service, as
    Paris was first of his best beloved paramour.

Another of Samela's lovers, despairing of success, "became sick for anger, and spent whole
ecologues in anguish."

Greene's story of "Pandosto," of "Dorastus and Fawnia," which attained a great popularity,
and went through at least fourteen editions, is well known as the foundation of Shakespeare's
"Winter's Tale." Shakespeare has followed Greene in the material points of the story, even
so far as to make Bohemia a maritime country. But the genius of the dramatist is manifest in
the miraculous and happy ending which he substitutes for the unlawful love and inconsistent
suicide of Pandosto in the work of Greene. Shakespeare borrowed from the text, as well as from
the plot of the novelist. The lines,

                        The gods themselves,
      Humbling their deities to love, have taken
      The shapes of beasts upon them: Jupiter
      Became a bull, and bellowed: the green Neptune
      A ram, and bleated; and the fire robed god,
      Golden Apollo, a poor humble swain,
      As I seem now,

are evidently a reproduction of the soliloquy of Dorastus:

    And yet Dorastus, shame not at thy shepheard's weede: The heavenly
    Godes have sometime earthly thoughts: Neptune became a ram, Jupiter
    a bull, Apollo a shepheard; they Gods, and yet in love; and thou a
    man appointed to love.[63]

The story of "Philomela," "penned to approve women's chastity," is the best of Greene's tales,
and approaches more closely the modern novel than any work of the time. It is related with
much less than the usual prolixity, and contains two characters of distinct individuality.
The scene is placed in Venice, partly in consequence of the Italian origin of the story, and
partly, it would seem, because writers of fiction imagined that the further distant they could
represent their incidents to have occurred, the more interest and probability would attach
to them. Philippo Medici possessed a wife Philomela, renowned, "not for her beauty, though
Italy afforded none so fair--not for her dowry, though she were the only daughter of the Duke
of Milan--but for the admirable honours of her mind, which were so many and matchless, that
virtue seemed to have planted there the paradise of her perfection." Philippo was so prone
to jealousy, that he suspected even this paragon, and worked himself into a belief in her infidelity
by such euphuisms as these: "The greener the Alisander leaves be, the more bitter is the sap,
and the salamander is the most warm when he lieth furthest from the fire," therefore "women
are most heart-hollow, when they are most lip-holy." Inflamed by this reasoning, he induced
a friend, one Lutesio, to attempt his wife's virtue, enjoining him to bring immediate information
in case of any evidence of success. Lutesio, after some misgivings, undertook the task, and
under the influence of Philomela's beauty, found it a very agreeable one. His most elaborate
discourses on love in the abstract were met by Philomela with replies fully as long and fully
as lofty, but when he made the conversation personal, and declared his attitude to be that
of a lover, he was met with a virtuous indignation which fully bore out the reputation of Philomela.
Even this conclusive test did not satisfy the jealous mind of the wretched Philippo. Having
hired two slaves to swear in court to his wife's infidelity, he procured her banishment to
Palermo. By the efforts of the Duke of Milan, this infamous proceeding was finally exposed,
and Philippo, overcome by remorse, set out in search of Philomela. At Palermo, he accused himself,
in a fit of despair, of a murder which had been committed in that city. But while the trial
was in progress, Philomela, in order to shield her husband, appeared in court and proclaimed
herself guilty of the crime. The innocence of both was discovered. Philippo, as he deserved,
died immediately in an "ecstacy," and Philomela "returned home to Venice, and there lived the
desolate widow of Philippo Medici all her life; which constant chastity made her so famous,
that in her life she was honoured as the paragon of virtue, and after her death, solemnly,
and with wonderful honour, entombed in St. Mark's Church, and her fame holden canonized until
this day in Venice."

The character of Philomela possesses strong traits of feminine virtue and wifely fidelity.
Philippo has little distinctiveness except in his extreme susceptibility to jealousy--a fault
which was exaggerated by the author to set off the opposite qualities of Philomela. The story
has no little merit in regard to the construction and sequence of the narrative, and holds
up to admiration a high moral excellence. But its interest is seriously impaired by the same
defect which marks all the fiction of the time. Philomela is almost the only tale which makes
any pretence to being a description of actual life, or which deals with possible incidents.
Yet the language, although it has some elegance, is so affectedly formal, that all sense of
reality is destroyed. When Philippo's treachery to his wife is discovered, and he himself is
plunged in remorse, it is in such words as these that he speaks of his exposure: "There is
nothing so secret but the date of days will reveal; that as oil, though it moist, quencheth
not fire, so time, though ever so long, is no sure covert for sin; but as a spark raked up
in cinders will at last begin to glow and manifest a flame, so treachery hidden in silence
will burst forth and cry for revenge."[64]

A prose idyl is the term which best describes the courtly and pastoral character of Lodge's
"Rosalynde," the last work of fiction of any importance which distinctly bears the impress
of euphuism. Published in 1590, the ten editions through which it passed during the next fifty
years are sufficient evidence of its popularity. It is probably the only work of fiction of
Elizabeth's time which could be read through at the present day without impatience, and its
story and personages are well known to all through their reproduction in Shakespeare's "As
You Like it." The author of "Rosalynde" was a man of very varied talents and experience. The
son, it is believed, of a Lord Mayor of London, he graduated at Trinity College, Oxford, and
followed successively the professions of an actor, soldier, lawyer, and physician. In the intervals
of these occupations, he found time to join in two privateering expeditions to the Pacific,
and to publish a number of literary productions, of which the most successful were dramas and
poems. He is thought to have died of the plague in 1625.

"ROSALYNDE. EUPHUES' GOLDEN LEGACIE: Found after his death in his cell at Silexedra, Bequeathed
to Philantus' sonnes nursed up with their Father in England. Fetched from the Canaries by T.L.,
Gent." Such is the fanciful title of the story which Shakespeare transformed into "As You Like
it." In the comedy, the characters of Touchstone, Audrey, and Jacques are added, but otherwise
the dramatist has followed his original quite closely. He made use, not infrequently, of the
language as well as the incidents of Lodge, which in itself is sufficient praise. "Rosalynde,"
is, indeed, a charming tale, containing agreeable and well drawn characters, dramatic incidents,
and written in an elevated strain of dignity and purity. Occasionally, the influence of "Euphues"
is manifest:--"Unhappy Saladyne, whom folly hath led to these misfortunes, and wanton desires
wrapt within the laborinth of these calamities. Are not the heavens doomers of men's deedes?
And holdes not God a ballance in his fist, to reward with favour and revenge with justice?
Oh, Saladyne, the faults of thy youth, as they were fond, so were they foule; and not onely
discovering little nourture, but blemishing the excellence of nature."

A more natural and attractive passage is the discussion between Rosalynde and Alinda,[65] regarding
their escape from court.

    Rosalynde began to comfort her, and after shee had wept a fewe kind
    teares in the bosome of her Alinda, she gave her heartie thankes,
    and then they sat them downe to consult how they should travel.
    Alinda grieved at nothing but they might have no man in their
    company; saying it would be their greatest prejudice in that two
    women went wandering without either guide or attendant. "Tush
    (quoth Rosalynde), art thou a woman and hast not a sodeine shift to
    prevent a misfortune? I, thou seest, am of a tall stature, and
    would very wel become the person and apparel of a Page: thou shalt
    bee my mistresse, and I wil play the man so properly, that (trust
    me) in what company so ever I come I will not be discovered: I wil
    buy me a suite, and have my Rapier very handsomely at my side, and
    if any knave offer wrong, your Page wil shew him the poynt of his
    weapon."

Shakespeare has followed this scene very closely in "As You Like It."

      Ros. Alas, what danger will it be to us,
      Maids as we are, to travel forth so far!
      Beauty provoketh thieves sooner than gold.

      Cel. I'll put myself in poor and mean attire,
      And with a kind of umber smirch my face;
      The like do you; so shall we pass along
      And never stir assailants

      Ros. During the three hundred years which have elapsed since
the death of Sir Philip Sidney, the same enthusiastic praise has
accompanied the mention of his name. Sir William Temple, writing in a
critical time, and when the effect of Sidney's personal character need
no longer have biassed a literary judgment, pronounced Sir Philip to be
"the greatest poet and the noblest genius of any that have left
writings behind them."[67] Such were the words of a man of genius, who
was acquainted with the works of Chaucer, Shakespeare, and Spenser.
While all admirers of Sidney must regret a praise of his literary
abilities so exaggerated and mistaken, the eulogies which have been
lavished upon his personal character have never been thought to surpass
the worth of their object. Sir Philip Sidney, in the short life
allotted to him, had added to his personal beauty and amiable
disposition all that was most fitted to win the admiration of his time.
His rare accomplishments, his chivalrous manners and unusual powers of
conversation made him so great a favorite at court, that it was the
pride of Elizabeth to call him "her Philip." A considerable knowledge
of military affairs, and a fearless gallantry in battle, combined, with
Sidney's genial disposition, to win for him the universal affection of
the army. The violence of the Middle Ages lingers in Sir Philip's angry
words to his father's secretary: "Mr. Molyneux, if ever I know you to
do so much as read any letter I write to my father, without his
commandment or my consent, I will thrust my dagger into you. And trust
to it, for I speak it in earnest." But the spirit of generosity and
self-sacrifice, which we are also accustomed to associate with mediæval
knighthood, was realized in the famous scene on the battle-field before
Zutphen. With good natural talents and an untiring industry, Sir
Philip acquired a knowledge of science, of languages, and of
literature, which gave him a reputation abroad as well as at home. The
learned Languet relinquished his regular duties without prospect of
pecuniary reward "to be a nurse of knowledge to this hopeful young
gentleman."[68] The regrets of the universities at Sidney's death
filled three volumes with academic eulogies. But a better testimony
than these volumes to the general admiration for Sidney's talents, and
to his position as a patron of literature, is to be found in the
beautiful lines in which Spenser lamented his benefactor, and in two
sentences by poor Tom Nash[69], who knew but too well the value of what
he and his fellow-laborers had lost: "Gentle Sir Philip Sidney, thou
knewest what belonged to a scholar; thou knewest what pains, what toil,
what travel conduct to perfection; well could'st thou give every virtue
his encouragement, every art his due, every writer his desert, cause
none more virtuous, witty, or learned than thyself. But thou art dead
in thy grave, and has left too few successors of thy glory, too few to
cherish the sons of the Muses, or water those budding hopes with their
plenty, which thy bounty erst planted." The public manifestations of
grief at Sidney's death, and the rivalry of two nations for the
possession of his remains, seem to have proceeded rather from the fame
of his personal virtues than from the accomplishment of great
achievements.

The work of a man who belonged so thoroughly to his own time, and who united in himself talents
and virtues so remarkable could hardly fail to be of historical interest. Such is the value
now belonging to the "Arcadia"--a work unrivalled in its own day, and deserving the admiration
of the present, but which has been left behind in the great advance of English prose fiction.
In the courtly pages of the "Arcadia" are brilliantly reflected the lofty strain of sentiment
characteristic of Elizabeth's time, and the chivalry, the refinement, and the impetuosity of
if its noble author. "Heere have you now," wrote Sir Philip to his sister, the Countess of
Pembroke, "most deare, and most worthy to be most deare Ladie, this idle worke of mine. * *
* Youre deare self can best witnesse the manner, being done in loose sheetes of paper, most
of it in your presence, the rest by sheetes sent unto you, as fast as they were done." It would
be tedious to the reader to receive a detailed description of the story which extends through
the four hundred and eighty pages of Sidney's folio. The plot turns on the fulfilment of a
Delphian prophecy, in fear of which Basilius, king of Arcadia, retires to a forest with his
wife and two daughters. One daughter, Philoclea, lives with her father Basilius, and the other,
Pamela, is confided to the care of Dametas, a country fellow, in the service of Basilius, who
lives close by with his wife. Pyrocles, prince of Macedon, and Musidorus, prince of Thessaly,
are wrecked on the coast of Arcadia, where they soon become enamored of the two daughters of
Basilius. To the better attainment of their ends, Pyrocles obtains admittance to the house
of Basilius in the disguise of an Amazon, and Musidorus enters the service of Dametas in the
character of a shepherd. The story which is unrolled in the remainder of the work relates the
extraordinary occurrences which are necessary to the fulfilment of the Delphian prophecy, together
with the intrigues and adventures of the young lovers. Shipwrecks, attacks by pirates, rescues,
journeys through Arcadia among poetic shepherds, a war with the Helots, through forests and
carving sonnets on trees,--such are the scenes which succeed each other with unending variety.
On the arrival of Pyrocles and Musidorus in Arcadia, the reader is introduced to that ideal
land, never more happily described than by Sidney's pen[70]:

    The third day after, in the time that the Morning did strow roses
    and violets in the heavenly floore against the comming of the
    sunne, the Nightingales, (striving one with the other which could
    in most daintie varietie recount their wrong caused sorrow,) made
    them put off their sleepe, and rising from under a tree, (which
    that night had bin their pavillion,) they went on their journey,
    which by and by welcomed Musidorus eies (wearied with the wasted
    soile of Laconia) with delightfull prospects. There were hills
    which garnished their proud heights with stately trees: humble
    vallies, whose base estate seemed comforted with the refreshing of
    silver rivers: medowes, enameled with all sorts of eie pleasing
    flowers; thickets, which being lined with most pleasant shade, were
    witnessed so too, by the cheerfull disposition of manie well tuned
    birds: each pasture stored with sheep feeding with sober securitie,
    while the prettie lambes with bleating oratorie craved the dammes
    comfort: here a shepheards boy piping, as though he should never be
    old: there a young shepheardesse knitting, and withall singing, and
    it seemed that her voice comforted her hands to worke, and her
    hands kept time to her voice's musick. As for the houses of the
    country, (for manie houses came under their eye,) they were all
    scattered, no two being one by th' other, and yet not so farre off
    as that it barred mutuall succour: a shew, as it were, of an
    accompanable solitarinesse, and of a civill wildeness.

Amid such scenes dwell Basilius and his wife, whose two daughters are described by Sidney in
language unsurpassed for delicacy and charm.

    Of these two are brought to the world two daughters, so beyond
    measure excellent in all the gifts allotted to reasonable
    creatures, that we may thinke they were borne to shew, that nature
    is no stepmother to that sexe, how much so ever some men (sharp
    witted onely in evill speaking) have sought to disgrace them. The
    elder is named Pamela, by many men not deemed inferiour to her
    sister: for my part, when I marked them both, me thought there was,
    (if at least such perfections may receive the word of more,) more
    sweetness in Philoclea, but more majestie in Pamela: mee thought
    love plaied in Philoclea's eies, & threatened in Pamela's; me
    thought Philoclea's beautie only perswaded, but so perswaded that
    all hearts must yield; Pamela's beautie used violence, and such
    violence as no heart could resist. And it seems that such
    proportion is betweene their mindes; Philoclea so bashfull, as
    though her excellencies had stolne into her before she was aware,
    so humble, that she will put all pride out of countenance; in
    summe, such proceeding as will stirre hope, but teach hope good
    maners. Pamela of high thoughts, who avoids not pride with not
    knowing her excellencies, but by my making that one of her
    excellencies to be void of pride: her mother's wisdome, greatnesse,
    nobilitie, but (if I can guesse aright) knit with a more constant
    temper.[71]

The description of an envious man in the second book,[72] which suggested to Sir Richard Steele
his essay in the nineteenth number of the Spectator, is another good example of Sidney's ability
in delineating character. The passage in which Musidorus is represented showing off the paces
of his horse,[73] a subject especially adapted to excite the best effort of the author, is
a very remarkable effort of descriptive power, for the insertion of which, unfortunately, space
is wanting here. Sidney might have quoted his description of Pamela sewing, to justify his
belief that "It is not rhyming and versing that maketh poesy":

    Pamela, who that day having wearied her selfe with reading, * * * was
    working upon a purse certaine roses and lillies. * * * The flowers
    shee had wrought caried such life in them, that the cunningest
    painter might have learned of her needle: which, with so pretty a
    manner, made his careers to & fro through the cloth, as if the needle
    it selfe would haue been loth to haue gone fromward such a mistresse,
    but that it hoped to returne thitherward very quickly againe; the
    cloth looking with many eyes vpon her, and louingly embracing the
    wounds she gaue it: the sheares also were at hand to behead the silke
    that was growne too short. And if at any time shee put her mouth to
    bite it off, it seemed, that where she had beene long in making of
    a rose with her hands, she would in an instant make roses with her
    lips; as the lillies seemed to haue their whitenesse rather of the
    hand that made them, than of the matter whereof they were made;
    & that they grew there by the suns of her eyes, and were refreshed
    by the most * * * comfortable ayre, which an unawares sigh might
    bestow upon them.[74]

Charles I. passed many hours of his prison life in reading the "Arcadia," and Milton[75] accused
him of stealing a prayer of Pamela to insert in the "Eikon Basilike": "And that in no serious
book, but the vain amatorious poem of Sir Philip Sidney's 'Arcadia'; a book in that kind, full
of worth and wit, but among religious thoughts and duties not worthy to be named: nor to be
read at any time without good caution, much less in time of trouble and affliction to be a
Christian's prayerbook." This prayer is in itself so beautiful, coming from the lips of Pamela,
and the greater part of it suits so perfectly the unhappy circumstances of King Charles, that
at the risk of unduly multiplying our extracts from the "Arcadia," it will be inserted here:--

    And therewith kneeling downe, euen where shee stood, she thus said:
    O All-seeing Light, and eternall Life of all things, to whom
    nothing is either so great, that it may resist; or so small, that
    it is condemned: looke vpon my misery with thine eye of mercie, and
    let thine infinite power vouchsafe to limite out some proportion of
    deliuerance vnto me, as to thee shall seeme most conuenient. Let
    not injurie, O Lord, triumph ouer me, and let my faults by thy hand
    bee corrected, and make not mine vnjust enemy the minister of thy
    justice. But yet, my God, if in thy wisdome this be the aptest
    chastisement for my vnexcusable folly: if this low bondage be
    fittest to my ouerhigh desires: if the pride of my not inough
    humble heart be thus to be broken, O Lord I yeeld vnto thy will,
    and joyfully embrace what sorrow thou will haue mee suffer. Onely
    thus much let me craue of thee, (let my crauing, O Lord, be
    accepted of thee, since euen that proceeds from thee,) let me
    craue, euen by the noblest title, which in my greatest affliction I
    may give myself, that I am thy creature, and by thy goodness (which
    is thyselfe) that thou wilt suffer some beame of thy Majestie so to
    shine into my minde, that it may still depend confidently on thee.
    Let calamitie be the exercise, but not the ouerthrow or my vertue;
    let their power preuaile, but preuaile not to destruction; let my
    greatnesse be their pray; let my paine bee the sweetnesse of there
    reuenge: let them, (if so it seeme good vnto thee) vexe me with
    more and more punishment. But, O Lord, let neuer their wickednesse
    haue such a hand, but that I may cary a pure minde in a pure body.
    (And pausing a while.) And O most gracious Lord, (said she) what
    euer become of me, preserve the vertuous Musidorus.[76]

The "Arcadia" combines the elements of both the chivalric and the pastoral romance. Sidney's
familiarity with the legends of Arthur, together with his own gallantry and love of adventure,
peculiarly adapted him to describe martial scenes. But the chivalry of Sir Philip is not more
apparent where he describes the shock of arms than where, with such exquisite delicacy, he
writes of women. The student of English fiction would fain linger long over the pages which
describe the loves of Pamela and Philoclea. For when these pages are laid aside, it is long
before he may again meet with the poetry, the manly and womanly sentiment, and the pure yet
stirring passion which adorn the romance of Elizabeth's Philip. Three centuries have passed
away since the "Arcadia" was written, and we who live at the end of this period not unjustly
congratulate ourselves on our superior civilization and refinement. And yet in all this time
we have arrived of no higher conception of feminine virtue or chivalrous manhood than is to
be found in this sixteenth-century romance, and during one half of these three hundred years
there was to be seen so little trace of such a conception, whether in life or in literature,
that the word love seemed to have lost its nobler meaning and to stand for no more than animal
desire. There is not in English fiction a more charming picture of feminine modesty than that
of Pamela hiding her love for Musidorus.

    How delightfull soeuer it was, my delight might well bee in my
    soule, but it neuer wente to looke out of the window to doe him any
    comforte. But how much more I found reason to like him, the more I
    set all the strength of my minde to conceale it. * * * Full often
    hath my breast swollen with keeping my sighes imprisoned: full
    often have the teares I draue back from mine eyes turned back to
    drowne my heart. But, alas, what did that helpe poore Dorus?[77]

Hardly less beautiful is the gradual yielding, through pity, of Pamela's maidenly heart.

    This last dayes danger having made Pamela's loue discerne what a
    losse it should haue suffered if Dorus had beene destroyed, bred
    such tendernesse of kindnesse in her toward him, that she could no
    longer keepe loue from looking out through her eyes, and going
    forth in her words; whom before as a close prisoner, shee had to
    her heart onely committed: so as finding not onely by his speeches
    and letters, but by the pitifull oration of a languishing behaviour,
    and the easily deciphered character of a sorrowfull face, that
    despaire began now to threaten him destruction, she grew content
    both to pitie him, and let him see shee pitied him. * * * by making
    her owne beautifull beames to thaw away the former ycinesse of her
    behaviour.[78]

That portion of the "Arcadia" which relates to pastoral life owes its origin to Spanish and
Portuguese works. But there were not wanting to Sidney's experience actual examples of that
peaceful existence to which, in troubled times, men have so often turned as a pleasing contrast
to their own cares, and dangers. The shepherds of the Sussex Downs, pursuing through centuries
their simple vocation, unheeded by the world, untouched by revolution or civil war, tended
their sheep with little thought or knowledge of the world beyond the downs, and presented to
the poet a picture of calm content, in pleasing contrast to the active or terrible incidents
which more frequently made up the sum both of romance and of actual life. The shepherds of
the "Arcadia" make even less pretence to reality than the martial heroes. They are usually
poets and musicians; speaking in courtly phrases, and occupied with amorous adventures, they
serve sometimes to relieve, and sometimes to heighten, the more stirring scenes.

A third element in the "Arcadia" is the comic, and with this, as might be expected from the
rather crude ideas of humor prevalent in the sixteenth century, Sidney met with indifferent
success. The wit depends on the ugliness, the perversity, and the clownish character of Dametas,
his wife, and their daughter Mopsa. It partakes of the nature of the practical joke, and though
it no doubt amused the courtiers of Elizabeth, is too clumsy for a more cultivated taste. But
although Sidney's comic scenes may no longer amuse, it must be said that they are free from
the low coarseness and ribaldry which have furnished merriment to times which pretended to
a much higher standard of wit and education than his own. An interesting contrast may be made
between a comic passage of the "Arcadia,"[79] representing a fight between two cowards, and
perhaps the only scene in the "Morte d'Arthur" of humorous intent,[80]--that in which King
Mark is ignominiously put to flight by Arthur's court fool disguised in the armor of a knight.

In the history of English literature, Sir Philip Sidney's romance will always have a prominent
place as the first specimen of a fine prose style. The affectations and mannerisms which are
its chief defect were due to the unsettled condition of the language, and to the influence
of foreign works, which the general love of learning had made familiar to cultivated Englishmen.
The position of the "Arcadia" in fiction is established by the exquisite descriptions of nature
and the life-like sketches of character which will often reward the patient reader. That prolixity,
which more than any other cause has made the work obsolete, and, as a whole, unreadable, was
a recommendation rather than an objection at the time of publication. The "Arcadia," standing
almost alone in the department of fiction, and far superior to its few competitors, took the
place of a small circulating library. A spirit of lofty ideality pervades the work of Sir Philip
Sidney, which is expressive of the aspirations of his time. In the fictions of that age is
to be seen a constant attempt, not always successful, to dignify life, to exalt the beautiful,
and to conceal or condemn the base. Everyday life was not tempting to the writer, because it
contained too much that was repulsive. The story teller and the poet painted amid unreal scenes
that happiness and virtue which they thought more easily to be conceived in an ideal land of
knights and shepherds, than amidst the cares and dangers of their own existence.[81]

[Footnote 57: Paine's "History of English Literature," book iii, ch. 1.]

[Footnote 58: Nichol's "Progresses," vol. I, p. 3.]

[Footnote 59: The Italian tales were issued in various collections, such as Painter's "Palace
of Pleasure," Whetstone's "Heptameron," the "Histories" of Goulard and Grimstone. One of the
best of these collections is "Westward for Smelts," by Kinde Kit of Kingstone, circa 1603,
reprinted by the Percy Society. It is on the same plan as Boccaccio's "Decamerone," except
that the story-tellers are fish-wives going up the Thames in a boat. Imitations of the Italian
tales may be found in Hazlitt's "Shakespeare's Library," notably "Romeo and Julietta." Most
of these are modernized versions of old tales. I may here add, as undeserving further mention,
such stories as "Jacke of Dover's Quest of Inquirie," 1601, Percy Soc.; "A Search for Money,"
by William Rowley, dramatist, 1609, Percy Soc.; and "The Man in the Moone, or the English Fortune-Teller,"
1609, Percy Soc.]

[Footnote 60: The most comprehensive remarks on Lyly and "Euphues" are to be found in the London
Quarterly Review for April, 1801, and are due to Mr. Henry Morley.]

[Footnote 61: Henry Peacham, "Compleat Gentleman." See Drake's "Shakespeare and his Times."]

[Footnote 62: Shakespeare ridiculed the affectations of contemporary language in "Love's Labour
Lost." Among the characters of Ben Jonson are some good Euphuists. In "Every Man out of his
Humour," Fallace says (act v, sc. x), "O, Master Brisk, as 'tis said in Euphues, Hard is the
choice, when one is compelled, either by silence to die with grief, or by speaking to live
with shame." In "The Monastery," a novel which the author himself considered a failure, Sir
Walter Scott represented a Euphuist. But the language of Sir Piercie Shafton is entirely devoid
of the characteristics of Euphuism, and gives a very false impression concerning it. (See introduction
to "The Monastery.") Compare passages quoted in the text with one in chap. xiv ("Monastery")
beginning: "Ah, that I had with me my Anatomy of Wit." Also passim.]

[Footnote 63: The lines quoted from the "Winter's Tale" are in act iv, sc. 3. For Greene's
words see "Dorastus and Fawnia," in Hazlitt's "Shakespeare's Library," part I, vol. 4, p. 62.
The resemblance between the two passages is pointed out by Dunlop ("History of Fiction," p.
404). Collier in his introduction to "Dorastus and Fawnia" denied this obligation of Shakespeare
to Greene. But he was evidently led into this error by liking the following passage, instead
of the one quoted in the text, for the foundation of Shakespeare's lines: "The gods above disdaine
not to love women beneathe. Phoebus liked Sibilla: Jupiter Io; and why not I, then Fawnia?"]

[Footnote 64: Another of Greene's tales, possessing much the same merits and the same defects
as those already mentioned is "Never too Late."]

[Footnote 65: Shakespeare's Celia.]

[Footnote 66: Act I, sc. 3.]

[Footnote 67: "Miscellanea," part ii, essay iv.]

[Footnote 68: Gray's "Life of Sidney," p. 8.]

[Footnote 69: "Pierce Penniless."]

[Footnote 70: Folio, 1622. p. 6.]

[Footnote 71: Folio, 1622, p. 10.]

[Footnote 72: Folio, p. 130.]

[Footnote 73: Folio, p. 115.]

[Footnote 74: Folio, p. 260.]

[Footnote 75: See an "Answer in 'Eikon Basilike,'" Milton's Works, Symmons' ed., v. 2, p. 408.]

[Footnote 76: Folio, p. 248.]

[Footnote 77: Folio, p. 116.]

[Footnote 78: Folio, p. 231.]

[Footnote 79: Book iii.]

[Footnote 80: "Morte d'Arthur," book x, chap. 12.]

[Footnote 81: A Scotchman named Barclay published a partly political and partly heroic volume
called "Argenis" in 1621. It was much commended by Cowper the poet, but being written in Latin,
is hardly to be included in English fiction. See Dunlop, chap. x. Francis Godwin wrote a curious
story about 1602, called "The Man in the Moon," in which is described the journey of one Domingo
Gonzales to that planet. Dunlop ("Hist. of Fiction") thought Domingo to be the real author.
See chapter xiii. This romance is chiefly remarkable for its scientific speculations, and the
adoption by the author of the Copernican theory. It was translated into French, and imitated
by Cyrano de Bergerac, who in his turn was imitated by Swift in Brobdignag. See Hallam, "Lit.
of Europe," vol 3, p. 393.]

CHAPTER IV.

THE PURITANS. BUNYAN'S "PILGRIM'S PROGRESS."

I.

The renaissance of learning, with its delight in a sense of existence, its enjoyment of a new
life, a newly acquired knowledge, and a quickened intelligence, was gradually supplanted by
that renaissance of religion which followed the general introduction of the Bible among the
English people. Weary of the oppression of the clergy, weary of giving an often ruinous obedience
to the tyranny of men whose lives gave them no claim to control the conduct of others, the
early Puritan found in the Bible the knowledge of God and the means of grace which he despaired
of obtaining from the priest. The Bible became in reality The Book. It was the one volume possessed
and read by the people at large. The classical authors, the volumes of translations issued
in Elizabeth's time, the productions, even, of English genius had been familiar only to the
upper and best-educated classes. The great body of the people were without books, and the Bible
became their one literary resource, and the sole teacher of the conditions by which salvation
could be attained. It was seized upon with extraordinary avidity and enthusiasm. Old men learned
to read, that they might study it for themselves. Crowds gathered in churches and private houses
to hear it read aloud. A good reader became a public benefactor. Alike in manor and in cottage,
the family gathered at night to listen with awe-struck interest to the solemn words whose grandeur
was not yet lessened by familiarity. As we quote, often unconsciously, from a hundred different
authors, the Puritans quoted from their one book.[82] Some, like Bunyan, at first preferred
the historical chapters. But the Bible soon came to have a far more powerful and absorbing
interest than any of a literary nature. There men looked for their sentence of eternal life
or eternal torment. There they sought the solution of the question: "What shall I do to be
saved?" And they sought it with all the fervor of conscientious men who realized, as we cannot
realize, the doctrine of eternal damnation. To understand the influence of the Bible, we must
remember how completely men believed in a personal God, ruling England then, as He had ruled
Israel of old; and in a devil who stalked through the world luring men to their perdition.
The Bible was studied with a fearful eagerness for the way to please the one and to escape
the other. Looked upon as the word of God, pointing out the only means of salvation, men placed
themselves, through the Bible, in direct communication with the Deity, and, casting aside the
authority of a church, acknowledged responsibility to Him alone. The difficulty of interpreting
obscure portions of the Scriptures drove many to frenzy and despair. A hopeful or consoling
passage was hailed with joy. "Happy are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy." "Lo," wrote
Tyndale, "here God hath made a covenant wyth us, to mercy full unto us, yf we wyll be mercy
full one to another."

Thus two ideas became paramount: the idea of God, and the idea of conscience. God was thought
of as a judge who will reward His chosen servants by eternal happiness, but who will deliver
those who do not know Him, or those who sin against His laws, to Satan and everlasting fire;
a God to please whom is the first object of this life, as no pleasure and no pain here can
compare with the pleasure or pain to come. This conception of the Deity still survives among
us, but it is not realized with the intensity of men who feel the hand of God in every incident
of their lives, who fancy that the Devil in person is among them, and who distinctly hear his
tempting words. Conscience, the guide who pointed out the path of rectitude, became strict
and self-searching, ever looking inwardly, and judging harshly, magnifying, through the greatness
of its ideal of virtue, every failing into a crime. The natural result of these ideas seething
in a brain which had little other food was Puritanism: the subordination of all other interests
of life to the attainment of a spiritual condition acceptable in the sight of God. Following
this aim with feverish intentness, and tortured by a conscience of extreme tenderness, the
Puritans naturally cast aside the pleasures of this life as likely to interfere with the attainment
of future happiness, and as worthless compared to it. It was no time for gaiety and trifling
when the horrors of hell were staring them in the face.

There is extant a life-like picture of a London housewife, which can teach us much regarding
the spirit of Puritanism.[83] "She was very loving and obedient to her parents, loving and
kind to her husband, very tender-hearted to her children, loving all that were godly, much
misliking the wicked and profane. She was a pattern of sobriety unto many, very seldom was
seen abroad, except at church. When others recreated themselves, at holidays and other times,
she would take her needlework, and say, 'here is my recreation.'"

The self-denial of this virtuous housewife developed into that austerity which, when Puritanism
had become the ruling power in England, closed the theatre and the bear-garden, stopped the
dancing on the village green, and assumed a dress and manner, the sombreness of which was meant
to signify a scorn of this world. While we can now easily perceive the mistakes of the Puritans,
and condemn the folly of prohibiting innocent amusements which form a natural outlet for exuberant
spirits, it will be well if we can do justice to the nobility of aim, and the greatness of
self-sacrifice, to which their austerity was due. We must remember that the aim of the Puritans
was a godliness far more exacting than that which we seek, and requiring a proportionate sacrifice
of immediate pleasure. We must remember, too, that the amusements of that time were in large
part brutal, like the bear-gardens; and licentious, like most of the theatres. Puritanism could
only exist among men filled to an uncommon degree with a love of virtue, who were ready to
undergo every hardship, and to sacrifice every personal inclination to attain it. Growing up
among the people at large, Puritanism showed a strong national love of religion and morality.
The resolution with which its devotees pursued their aims, the serene content with which the
martyrs welcomed the flames which were to open the gates of Heaven, were backed by a strength
of faith not exceeded by that of the early Christians. The self-control and self-sacrifice
of the Puritans moulded the armies of the Commonwealth, and overthrew the tyranny of Charles.
But their finer qualities were clouded by the fanaticism which a long persecution had engendered.
A phrase in our description of the London housewife unconsciously tells the story: "Loving
all that were godly, much misliking the wicked and profane." The godly were the sharers of
her own faith, the "wicked and profane" were all those without its pale. Here lay the weakness
of Puritanism: its narrowness, its lack of sympathy with the world at large, its indifference
to the sufferings of those who had no place in the ranks of the elect.

Among such men we must look in vain for literary productions having the aim of entertainment.
The literature of the time was chiefly polemical, and commentaries crowded on the book-shelves
the volumes of classical and Italian writers. To Puritanism, fiction was the invention of the
Evil One, but still to Puritanism we owe, what is now, and seems destined ever to remain, the
finest allegory in the English language.

[Footnote 82: See Green's "Short History of the English People," chap. viii, sec. 1.]

[Footnote 83: John Wallington's description of his mother. Green's "Short History of the English
People," p. 451.]

II.

That John Bunyan, a poor, illiterate tinker, was able to take the first place among writers
of allegory, and to accomplish the extraordinary intellectual feat of producing a work which
charmed alike the ignorant, who could not perceive its literary merits, and cultivated critics,
who viewed it only from a literary standpoint, depended partly on his own natural gifts, and
partly on the character of Puritan thought. To write a good allegory requires an imagination
of unusual power. It requires, in addition, a realization of the subject sufficiently strong
to give to immaterial and shadowy forms a living personality. These conditions were combined
in Bunyan's case to an unexampled degree. He possessed an imagination the activity of which
would have unsettled the reason of any less powerfully constituted man. His subject, the doctrine
of salvation by grace, was, by the absorbing interest then attached to it, impressed upon his
mind with a vividness difficult to conceive. In "Grace Abounding in the Chief of Sinners,"
Bunyan left a description of his life, and the workings of his mind on religious subjects,
which is without a parallel in autobiography. The veil which hides the thoughts of one man
from another is withdrawn, and the reader is placed in the closest communion with the mind
of the writer. In "Grace Abounding" is easily detected the secret of Bunyan's success in allegory.
I was afflicted with thoughts of the Day of Judgment, night and day, trembling at the thoughts
of the fearful torments of hell fire." * * * I cannot express with what longing I cried to
Christ to call me. I saw such glory in a converted state that I could not be contented without
a share therein. Had I had a whole world it had all gone ten thousand times over for this,
that my soul might have been in a converted state."

A man so sensitive to supernatural impressions could realize them as completely as the actual
experiences of his daily life. Such, in fact, they were. With a conscience so tender, and a
longing so intense for what he considered a condition of grace, Bunyan described the journey
of Christian with the minuteness and fidelity of one who had trod the same path. The sketch
of the pilgrim, which opens the work, stamps Christian at once an individual.

The same impression of reality pervades the whole work. Christian's sins take an actual form
in the burden on his back. Every personage whom he meets on his journey, and every place through
which he passes appears to the mind of the reader with the vividness of actual experience.
The child or the laborer reads the "Pilgrim's Progress" as a record of adventures undergone
by a living man; the scholar forgets the art which has raised the picture before his mind,
in a sense of contact with the subject portrayed. This is the triumph of a great genius, and
it is a triumph to which no other writer has attained to the same degree. Other allegorists
have pleased the fancy or gratified the understanding, but Bunyan occupies at once the imagination,
the reason and the heart of his reader. Defoe's power of giving life to fictitious scenes and
personages has not been surpassed by that of any other novelist. But Defoe's scenes and characters
were of a nature familiar to his readers, and therefore easily realized. In the "Pilgrim's
Progress," strange and unreal regions become well-known places, and moral qualities distinct
human beings. Evangelist, who puts Christian on the way to the Wicked Gate; Pliable, who deserts
him at the first difficulty; Help, who pulls him out of the Slough of Despond; Mr. Worldly
Wiseman, who shows him an easy way to be rid of his burden, are all life-like individuals.
Timorous, Talkative, Vain Confidence, Giant Despair, are not mere personifications, but distinct
human beings with whom every reader of the "Pilgrim's Progress" feels an intimate acquaintance.
Not less real is the impression produced by the various scenes through which the journey of
Christian conducts him. The Slough of Despond, the Wicket Gate, the House of the Interpreter,
the Hill Difficulty, have been familiar localities to many generations of men, who have watched
Christian's struggle with Apollyon in the Valley of Humiliation, and followed his footsteps
as they trod the Valley of the Shadow of Death, as they passed through the dangers of Vanity
Fair, and brought him at last to the Celestial City, and the welcome of the Shining Ones.

The "Pilgrim's Progress" and the "Holy War" are not as allegories entirely perfect, but they
probably gain in religious effect, as much as they lose from a literary point of view, in those
passages where the allegorical disguise is not sustained. The simplicity and power of their
language are alone sufficient to give them an important place in English literature. Throughout
the "Pilgrim's Progress" are evidences of a strong human sympathy, and a kindly indulgence
on the part of the author for the weak and erring among his fellow-men. Ignorance, to be sure,
is cast into the bottomless pit; but as the work taught a spiritual perfection, it could not
afford to encourage the willingly ignorant by bestowing a pardon on their representative. Bunyan
himself was distinguished for a general sympathy with his fellow-men which the narrowness of
Puritanism had failed to impair.

With the allegories of Bunyan, we leave ideality behind us as a characteristic feature of English
fiction. The knights of the Round Table, Robin Hood and his merry men, the princes and princesses
of the "Arcadia," the pilgrim Christian, were the ideal heroes of the particular periods to
which they belong. They were placed amid the scenes which seemed most attractive, and were
endowed with the qualities which seemed most admirable to the men whose imaginations created
them. But, with the exception perhaps of Robin Hood, they were purely ideal, without prototypes
in nature. The writer of fiction had not yet turned his attention to the delineation of character,
to the study of complex social questions, to the portrayal of actual life. With the fall of
Puritan power, begins a great intellectual change. History shows, since the Restoration, a
tendency which has continuously grown stronger and wider, to subordinate the imagination to
the reason of man, to withdraw political and social questions from the influence of mere tradition,
to subject them instead, to the test of practical experience, and to encourage the patient
physical investigations which have resulted in the triumphs of modern science. This tendency
has pervaded all the channels of human industry. Its effect upon works of fiction has been
to introduce into that department of literature, a spirit of realism, and a love of investigating
the problems of life and character, which have resulted in the modern novel. Henceforth we
shall meet no more ideal beings, but men or women, more or less true to nature. In the fiction
of the Restoration are first observable the new tendencies, which, although but slightly marked
at first, have finally given to the English novel its present importance. An attempt to trace
the gradual perfection of this form of literature, its development into a work of art, into
a natural history of men, into a truthful reflection of very varied social conditions, will
occupy the remainder of this volume.

I.

The Puritans had overthrown the political tyranny of Charles, but in attempting to build up
by force a kingdom of the saints on earth, they had established a spiritual tyranny, quite
as irksome and quite as perishable, of their own. Meanwhile they had failed to preserve the
reputation for sanctity which formed the chief basis of their authority. As soon as they had
attained power, they were joined by men who professed their principles merely for selfish purposes;
who vied with each other in presenting to the world the outward signs of Puritanism, and remained
notoriously profligate in life and character. The kingdom of the saints, objectionable as a
tyranny, and finally identified in the popular mind with a hated hypocrisy, came to its inevitable
end in the reaction of the Restoration. But when the first fury of this reaction had passed
away, it was evident that Puritanism survived it: no longer a political power, but a moral
influence which controlled the great body of the people, and gave to English habits and literature
their distinctive tone of serious morality.

But for the time, all sight of this was lost. The entry of Charles II into Whitehall was the
sign for unlimited indulgence in all that had lately been forbidden. "Chassez le naturel, il
revient au galop."[84] The Puritans had pent up for so long the natural cravings for pleasure
and gaiety, that, when the barriers were withdrawn, license and debauchery were necessary to
satisfy appetites which a long-enforced abstinence had made abnormal. In Vanburgh's "Provoked
Wife," a comedy, like so many others of the time, at once very immoral and very entertaining,
Sir John Brute thus excuses the virtues of his early life: "I was afraid of being damned in
those days; for I kept sneaking, cowardly company, fellows that went to church, said grace
to their meat, and had not the least tincture of quality about them." Heartfree: "But I think
you have got into a better gang now." Sir John: "Zoons, sir, my Lord Rake and I are hand in
glove."[85] In the country, people were generally satisfied with getting back their May-poles
and Sunday games. But in London, where the rule of Puritanism had been the strictest, and above
all among the courtiers, the new liberty resulted in a license and shamelessness unequalled
in English history.

In the general proscription of Puritan ideas, the good were involved in the same destruction
as the bad. Religion was mocked at as a cloak for hypocrisy, self-restraint was thrown aside
as an obstacle to enjoyment. It was thought that emancipation from Puritan tyranny could not
be attained more effectually than by a life of open licentiousness; by gambling and drunkenness.
Such, under the Restoration, were the occupations most attractive to the gentlemen of fashion.
Buckingham, Rochester, and the troop of courtiers who looked to them for an example, spent
their lives in sinking into an ever deeper depravity. Their thoughts and mouths were never
clean. The verses they wrote are too foul to transcribe as an illustration of the taste of
their composers. The orgies in which they indulged were not scenes of gaiety, in which buoyant
spirits and lively wit might excuse excess, but were serious, bestial, and premeditated. The
dealings of these men with the female sex were but a succession of low intrigues, which destroyed
all sentiment and left nothing but disgust behind them. We hear a great deal about "love" in
the literature of the time, but it is the same kind of love that might be found among a herd
of cattle. It would be difficult to mention any man about the court of Charles II who could
have appreciated the pure and enduring passion which in the century before had breathed through
the noble lines of Spenser's "Epithalamion," and in the century that followed inspired "John
Anderson, my jo' John." Charles himself, "the old goat," set an example which hardly needed
the authority of the Lord's anointed to become attractive. Without honor or virtue himself,
and denying their existence in others, he made a fitting leader of the society about him. His
mistresses insulted the queen by their splendor and arrogance, and insulted him by amours with
servants and mountebanks. So destitute of dignity or principle as to share the Duchess of Cleveland
with the world, he coolly asked a courtier who was reputed to be on too intimate terms with
the queen, how his "mistress" did. While the gaming-tables at court were nightly covered with
gold, and Lady Castlemaine gambled away thousands of pounds at a sitting, the exchequer was
closed amid a widespread ruin, and the menial servants about the court were in want of bread.
So openly was the king's coarse licentiousness pursued, that "the very sentrys speak of it,"
that the queen rarely entered her dressing-rooms without first being assured that the king
was not there with one of his women. Such an example had a powerful influence upon all the
rank and fashion of the time, already predisposed to a similar course. The extent of the prevailing
reverence for royalty is admirably illustrated by the scene in which the Earl of Arlington
advised Miss Stewart concerning her conduct as mistress of the king, to which position "it
had pleased God and her virtue to raise her." Thus from the popular dislike of Puritanism,
and the example of a profligate court, began that reign of social and political corruption
which for a hundred years demoralized the manners and sullied the literature of the English
people. The vice which became so engrafted on the habits of private life as to make decency
seem an affectation, invaded religion and politics. To religion it brought about a general
indifference, which in the higher ranks of the clergy took effect in disregard of their duties
and in a shameless scramble for lucrative posts, and in the lower ranks produced poverty and
social degradation. In politics are to be dated from this reign the gross corruption which
enabled every public officer, however high or however low, to use his position for the purpose
of private plunder, and the habit of bribing members of Parliament which soon converted them
into tools of the crown's ministers.

While the men found their greatest enjoyment and most congenial occupation in drunkenness,
duelling, and seduction, it is not to be expected that women should have retained an unappreciated
refinement. Half-naked and ornamented with a profusion of jewels, they look out from the portraits
of the time with a sleepy, voluptuous expression, which suggests a lack of intelligence and
too great a susceptibility to physical impressions. Women as we find them in contemporary memoirs,
and these most often deal with such as are about the court, are not unfit companions for the
men. We see not a few the willing victims of coarse intrigues, and some even assisting in the
degradation of others of their sex. Many of them swore "good mouth filling oaths," and the
scandal they talked would have shocked the taste as well as the principles of Elizabeth's time.
In the eighteenth century much coarseness is to be seen in literature and society, but we are
constantly meeting with the words "delicacy" and "indelicacy" in their application to social
refinement, and it is evident that the ideas of that time on this subject differ from ours
only in degree. Under the Restoration, these words, or the thoughts they represent, had a very
insignificant existence. Public taste inclined to the gross and the sensual, and welcomed as
enjoyable, what the present discards as disgusting. Ladies of the highest rank sat through
plays of which the purpose and effect was to degrade their own womanhood, to remove from the
minds of the men who sat about and watched their countenances at each new obscenity, whatever
respect for the sex might have lingered there. Some wore masks to hide the blushes which might
have been looked for as a drama proceeded, which represented every female character on the
stage as little better than an animal, using such reason as she possessed only to further the
gratification of her appetites. Under such conditions there could be no encouragement for maiden
modesty, and for old age no crown.

It is usually unfair to judge a community by its theatre, to which an exceptional liberty must
always be allowed. But the drama of the Restoration may be said to reflect with much truth
the popular taste. For the noblest efforts of dramatic genius the student turns by preference
to the age of Elizabeth. There he finds art, beauty, and poetry; there he finds human nature,
with its nobility and its littleness, with its virtues and its vices. The time of Charles II
was as narrow in its way as the Puritans had been in theirs, and was as little capable of forming
broad and just views of mankind. The Puritans, if they had had a stage, would have represented
man as an embodiment of moral qualities. The dramatists of the Restoration made him merely
a creature subject to animal desires and brutish instincts, which he made no effort to regulate.
"It might, not be easy perhaps," says Hallam, "to find a scene in any comedy of Charles II's
reign, where one character has the behavior of a gentleman, in the sense we attach to the word."[86]
The stage was in perfect accord with its audience. Morality was outraged by a constant association
of virtue with all that is contemptible and of vice with all that is attractive. Taste was
outraged by a perpetual choice of degraded subjects and disgusting scenes. Nature was outraged
by the representation of man, not as a complex being, worthy of deep and skilful investigation,
but as a creature influenced by two or three passions always apparent on the surface. Thus
the dramatists, notwithstanding their very exceptional abilities, produced little of enduring
value, and nothing which could outlive a change in the popular taste. They did, however, produce
what was greatly admired by their contemporaries: and the fact that the men and the women of
the time enjoyed the plays provided for them, shows that they preferred to noble and elevating
subjects, the literary reproduction of their own corrupt lives. The theatre no doubt represented
men as worse than they were. But the friends of Buckingham and Rochester, both male and female,
found in its long list of unprincipled men, of married women debauched, and of young girls
anxious to be debauched, the reflection and justification of their own careers.

Posterity remembers little of the reign or the theatre of Charles II beyond their corruption.
Yet there is much that is worthy of remembrance, without which any remarks on the social condition
of the time would be one-sided. There are to be referred to that period many legislative enactments
in the highest degree conducive to civil and religious liberty. The foundation of the Royal
Society marked the inauguration of a new interest in speculative enquiry, of a great activity
in scientific research, and of a broader and more liberal habit of thought on questions connected
with government and education. These advantages were attained in spite of a worthless king,
of corrupt ministers, and a licentious court, and they are due to the earnestness and vigor
of the great body of the English people, qualities which have remained unchanged through every
national vicissitude or success. While Pepys and Grammont supply full details of the moral
degeneration which weakened and debased the highest ranks of society, the sound morality, steady
industry, and progressive nature of the nation are to be seen in the journal of the good Evelyn.
His character and occupations, as well as those of his friends, offset the coarse tastes and
worthless lives which brought the time into discredit. To the prevailing disregard of the marriage
tie may well be contrasted the happiness of Evelyn's domestic life. His daughter, of whom he
has left a beautiful description, was endowed with an elevation of character, a charm of disposition,
and a purity of thought admirable in any age, and it cannot be doubted that she had many contemporary
parallels.

[Footnote 84: Destouches, "Glorieux," v. 3.]

[Footnote 85: Act ii, sc. 1.]

[Footnote 86: "Literature of Europe," vol. 4, chap. 6, sec. 2-47.]

II

With the pensions and fashions which were sent across the Channel from the court of Louis XIV,
came a curious species of fiction which had a temporary vogue in England. Gomberville, Scudéri,
and Calprenède had created the school of Heroic Romance by the publication of those monumental
works which the French not inaptly termed "les romans de longue haleine." This was the bulky
but enervated descendant of chivalric and pastoral romance. The tales of chivalry and of pastoral
life had their raison d'être. The feudal knighthood found in the tournaments, in the adventures
of knight-errantry, and in the supernatural agencies which filled their volumes of romance,
the reflection of their own aspirations and beliefs. They admired in the ideal characters of
Charlemagne and Arthur the qualities most valued among themselves. Martial glory was to them
the chief object of life; love was simply the reward of valor. The pastoral romance followed
in less warlike times. Its subject was love; and that passion was usually described amidst
humble and peaceful shepherds, where its strength and charm could develop more fully than amidst
scenes of war and tumult. Both the chivalric and the pastoral romance were the embodiment of
ideals which in turn represented contemporary tastes. But heroic romance, although it shared
some of the characteristics of its predecessors, had not the same claim to interest. It was
unnatural and artificial, rather than ideal. It imitated the martial character of the tales
of chivalry, but subordinated that character to love. It imitated the devoted strain of adoration
which ran through the fanciful phrases of pastoral fiction; but that artificial passion which
seemed appropriate to ideal shepherds tuning their pipes under a perpetual sunshine, became
absurd when applied to Greek or Carthaginian soldiers.

Gomberville's "Polexander," complete-in six thousand pages, and Calprenède's "Cassandra," "the
fam'd romance," are now before me. Greeks, Romans, Turks, Parthians, Scythians, Babylonians
are mingled together in a truly heroic structure of absurdity and anachronism. Artaxerxes appears
on one page, the queen of the Amazons on the next, then the king of Lacedæmon, Alexander the
Great, even a prince of Mexico, and comparatively private persons beyond computation. This
crowd of names represent personages who imitate the deeds of chivalry, and converse in the
affected style of the French court, while their ancient bosoms are distracted by a pure, all-absorbing,
and never-dying love as foreign to their nature as to that of the readers of heroic romance.
That this species of fiction should have met with any success, is largely due to the circumstance,
that under the disguise of Greek warriors or Parthian princesses, there were really described
contemporary beauties and courtiers, who fondly believed that they had attained, through the
genius of Calprenède and Scudéri, an enviable immortality. Unhappily for them, the characters
of heroic romance have found in that endless desert of phraseology at once their birthplace
and their tomb.

The works of Gomberville, Calprenède, and Scudéri, although little adapted to the English taste,
shared the favor which was extended to every thing French, and were both translated and imitated.
The "Eliana," published in 1661; although a bona-fide imitation, would have served much better
as a caricature. To the absurdity of incident is added an absurdity of language which gives
the book almost a comic aspect. The beauty of flowers growing in the fields is disguised under
the statement that Flora "spreads her fragrant mantle on the superficies of the earth, and
bespangles the verdant grass with her beauteous adornments." A lover "enters a grove free from
the frequentations of any besides the ranging beasts and pleasing birds, whose dulcet notes
exulsecrate him out of his melancholy contemplations."[87]

Dunlop considered the best work of this description to be the "Parthenissa," published in 1664,
by Roger Boyle, afterward Earl of Orrery. This romance, although marked by the faults of prolixity
and incongruity characteristic of the heroic style, is not without narrative interest or literary
merit. The hero is Artabanes, a Median prince, as usual "richly attired, and proportionately
blessed with all the gifts of nature and education." At the Parthian court he becomes enamored
of the beautiful Parthenissa, and in her honor performs many distinguished deeds of arms. Distracted,
however, at the suspicion of Parthenissa's preference for a rival, he leaves the Parthian court
with the determination to spend the remainder of his life on the summit of the Alps. This intention
is frustrated by pirates, who take him prisoner and bestow him as a slave upon their chief.
Artabanes soon escapes from bondage, suddenly turns out to be the historic Spartacus, and returns
to Asia. There he finds that Parthenissa, to avoid the importunities of an objectionable lover,
has swallowed a potion which gives her the appearance of death. In this dilemma he journeys
to "the Temple of Hieropolis in Syria, where the Queen of Love had settled an oracle as famous
as the Deity to whom it was consecrated." The priest of this temple, after listening patiently
to the long account of Artabanes' misfortunes, tells the story of his own remarkable career,
by which it appears that he is Nicomedes, king of Bythinia, the father of Julius Cæsar's Nicomedes.
While Artabanes is listening to this narrative, he sees two persons land upon the shore, and
enter a neighboring wood. One is a young knight, and the other the exact counterpart of Parthenissa.
At this apparition Artabanes is thrown into the greatest confusion. The lady he has seen presents
every outward appearance of his mistress, and yet he believes her dead, and is unable to conceive
that if living, she should so far forget her duty to him and the rules of propriety, as to
place herself in so suspicions a position. Here the romance comes to an abrupt end, leaving
Artabanes in the condition of painful uncertainty in which he has ever since remained.

Heroic romance proved as ephemeral in England as the cloaks and feathers with which it had
crossed the Channel, and we may pass over such trivial literary attempts as those of the Duchess
of Newcastle to the writings of Mrs. Manley and Mrs. Behn. These two novelists, if such they
may still be called, represent, in narrative fiction, the period which extends from the Restoration
to the opening of the eighteenth century. They have left us little, and that of very indifferent
merit. But their stories have a certain importance, inasmuch as with them begins the tendency,
in English fiction, to deal with the actual, instead of the imaginary, to describe characters
and scenes meant to represent real life.

The daughter of Sir Roger Manley, at one time Governor of Guernsey, Mrs. Manley was seduced,
when quite a young woman, and passed the remainder of her life in a licentiousness which has
evidently inspired her literary productions. Having picked up a few stories from current report,
she worked them into what she called "The Power of Love, in Seven Novels."[88] The "love" here
described is an unregulated animal passion, and its "power" is the natural effect of such a
passion upon men and women who have no idea of self-restraint or refinement. The result is
a series of licentious scenes, unredeemed by any literary merit. Mrs. Manley's most prominent
work was the "Secret Memoirs and Manners of Several Persons of Quality of Both Sexes. From
the New Atalantis, an Island in the Mediterranean." This book is a scandalous chronicle of
crimes reputed to have been committed by persons of high rank, and the names are so thinly
disguised as to be easily identified. Mrs. Manley was arrested and prosecuted for the publication,
but escaped without serious punishment. The work itself had a wide circulation, and Pope adopted
the endurance of its fame as a measure of time in his shortsighted line, "As long as Atalantis
shall be read."

In the beginning of this book a female personage named Astræa resolves to revisit the earth,
which she had long before abandoned in disgust. She alights upon an island in the Mediterranean,
named Atalantis, which is meant to signify England, and a female form immediately rises up
before her.

    Her habit obsolete and torn, almost degenerated into tatters;
    But her Native Charms, that needed not the Help of Art, gave to
    Astræa's returning Remembrance that it could be no other than her
    beautiful Mother Vertue. But oh! how despicable her Garments! how
    neglected her flowing Hair! How languid her formally animated Eyes!
    How pale, how withered the Roses of her lovely Cheeks and Lips! How
    useless her snowy arms and polished Fingers! they hung in a
    melancholy Decline, and seemed out of other Employment, but
    sometimes to support the Head of the dejected Fair One! Her limbs
    enervated and supine, wanting of that Energy which should bear her
    from a Solitude so affrighting!

From this very accurate description of the condition of virtue at the end of the seventeenth
century, it might be supposed that Mrs. Manley deplored her neglected state. But such is far
from being the case. Astræa and Virtue meet with a personage called Intelligence, who furnishes
them with a detailed account of current scandal calculated to still further depress the dejected
Virtue. The trio are soon joined by Mrs. Nightwork, a midwife, who never breaks an oath of
secrecy unless it be to her interest, and the character of whose contributions to the general
fund of gossip may be easily imagined. This semi-allegorical method of narration is kept up
during the first two volumes; in the third and fourth Mrs. Manley tells her story in her own
way. In the course of these four volumes is unrolled an extraordinary series of crimes, some
unnatural, and all gross in highest degree. The details which Mrs. Manley could not obtain
from authentic sources are supplied by her vivid and heated imagination. She gloats over each
incident with a horrible relish, and adds, with no unsparing brush, a heightened color to each
picture. Only a society whose conduct could afford material for this composition could possibly
have read it. Mrs. Manley no doubt invented and exaggerated without scruple, but the fact that
her work was widely read and even popular is a sufficient commentary on the taste of the time.
The reader of to-day is sickened by the multiplication of repulsive scenes, and the absence
from the book of any good qualities or actions whatever. The style in which the "Atalantis"
is written is so mean, that no person could have derived any pleasure from its pages other
than the gratification of a depraved taste.

A writer of fiction of much greater importance appeared in the person of Aphra Johnson, more
generally known as Mrs. Behn, or "the divine Astræa"; "a gentlewoman by birth, of a good family
in the city of Canterbury." Her father was appointed to a colonial office in the West Indies,
where he took his family while Mrs. Behn was yet a young girl. There the future authoress began
a chequered life by living on a plantation among rough and lawless colonists, and there she
made the acquaintance of the slave Oroonoko, whose sad story she afterward made known to the
world. On her return to England, she married Behn, a merchant of Dutch extraction, and went
to live in the Netherlands, where she acted as a British spy. By working upon the feelings
of her lovers, she was able to convey information to the English government of the intention
of the Dutch to enter the Thames to destroy the English fleet. Her warnings were disregarded,
and giving up her patriotic occupation, she returned to London, and devoted herself to literature.
She died in 1689, and was buried in the cloisters of Westminster Abbey:--"Covered only with
a marble stone, with two wretched verses on it." Although Mrs. Behn is now almost forgotten,
her position in her own time was not inconsiderable. Besides a number of letters and poems,
her literary productions include a translation of Fontenelle's "Plurality of Worlds," and a
paraphrase on Van Dale's "De Oraculis Ethnicorum." Her plays met with some success, but were
characterized by a licentiousness which won for her the title of "the female Wycherley," a
fact, which, on account of her sex, called down upon her a general and well-deserved condemnation.
Two other productions, of which the nature is sufficiently indicated by their titles, were
"The Lover's Watch; or the Art of making Love: being Rules for Courtship for every Hour of
the Day and Night"; and "The Ladies Looking Glass to dress themselves by; or the whole Art
of charming all Mankind."

It was on Mrs. Behn's return from the West Indies that, being introduced at court, she related
to Charles the Second the terrible fate of the noble slave Oroonoko. At the solicitation of
the king, she put her narrative into the form of a novel, which obtained a large circulation,
and was dramatized by Southern in his tragedy of the same name. "Oroonoko" is worthy of notice
as one of the earliest attempts on the part of an English novelist to deal with characters
which had come under the writer's observation in actual life. It is still more important on
account of the presence within it of a didactic purpose; a characteristic which for good or
for evil has been a prominent feature of the English novel. Sir Thomas More had made use of
fiction in the sixteenth century to urge his ideas of political and social reforms. Bunyan,
more than a century later, used the same means to promulgate his conception of Christian life.
While English narrative fiction was still in its first youth, Mrs. Behn protested against the
evils of the slave trade through the medium of a story which may be considered a forerunner
of "Uncle Tom's Cabin."

To interest the public in a distant country or an abstract principle, the novel is the most
effective literary means. A treatise on the slave trade by Mrs. Behn, however strong and truthful,
would have met with the little attention which is accorded to the sufferings of a distant and
unknown people. But the novel has the advantage over the treatise, that it deals with the particular
and not the general, with the individual and not the nation. It can place before the reader
a limited number of persons; it can interest his mind and heart in their characters, lives,
and fate; and by subjecting them to the horrors of the evil to be depicted, excite through
commiseration for their sufferings a hatred of the cause which inflicted them. To such a use
the novel has often been put, at too frequent a sacrifice of its artistic merit. To excite
indignation against the results of the slave trade, Mrs. Behn took the special instance of
Oroonoko. She endowed the African slave with beauty of person and nobility of character. She
gave him tastes and qualities of a kind to attract the interest of a European reader. She added
a description of his wife Imoinda, dwelling on the details of her beauty and charms. By a passionate
relation of the amatory scenes which occurred between Oroonoko and his wife, she touched a
key particularly calculated to excite contemporary English sympathy. Finally, by telling the
story of the cruel wrongs inflicted on the slaves, she aroused a natural indignation against
the system which could entail such evil results.

The story itself is briefly as follows. Oroonoko was a brave young chief, the grandson of a
king whose dominions lay on the coast of Africa. He had distinguished himself in war, and already
commanded all the forces of his grandfather's kingdom. Hitherto rather unsusceptible to female
charms, he became deeply enamored of Imoinda, on returning victorious from a great war. Unfortunately
the king noticed Imoinda at the same time, and had her brought to his palace as his concubine.
According to the rules of the court, this would separate the lovers forever. Oroonoko in desperation
made his way to Imoinda's chamber in the palace at night, where he was discovered by the king's
servants. Imoinda was immediately sold as a slave. Oroonoko made his way down to the seashore,
and was there allured, under false pretenses of hospitality, on board an English ship. He was
carried to the West Indies, and sold to a planter of Surinam, the colony in which Mrs. Behn
was living, and where by a remarkable chance Imoinda had already been sold. The beauty of Imoinda
had brought about her a large number of suitors, all of whom met with a cold repulse. The tenderness
of the meeting between Oroonoko and Imoinda prevailed upon their master to allow them to live
together. But Oroonoko longed for liberty. He plotted a revolt among his fellow-slaves, and
on its suppression was brutally flogged. Enraged by this, he escaped into the woods with Imoinda,
who was then pregnant. Fearing that she might fall into the hands of the whites, and unwilling
to be the father of a slave, he killed her, and remained by her dead body several days, half
insensible with grief and without food. Again taken by the colonists, he was tied to a post,
hacked to pieces and burned. The story, simple in itself, becomes striking in the hands of
Mrs. Behn. The hut of the old negro king is given the brilliancy of an Eastern court, and his
harem is copied after that of a Turkish potentate. When Oroonoko is induced to board the English
slaver, it is in no common style, but "the Captain in his Boat richly adorned with Carpets
and velvet Cushions went to the Shore to receive the Prince, with another Long Boat where was
placed all his Music and Trumpets." Mrs. Behn's methods of adorning her tale are best shown
by her description of Oroonoko himself, which is a good example of the tone in which the story
is written.

    I have often seen and conversed with this Great Man, and been a
    Witness to many of his mighty Actions: and do assure my Reader, the
    most illustrious Courts could not have produced a braver Man, both
    for Greatness of Courage and Mind, a Judgment more solid, a Wit
    more quick, and a Conversation more sweet and diverting. He knew
    almost as much as if he had read much; he had heard of and admired
    the Romans; he had heard of the late Civil Wars in England, and the
    deplorable Death of our great Monarch; and would discourse of it
    with all the Sense and abhorrence of the Injustice imaginable. He
    had an extremely good and graceful Mien, and all the civility of a
    well bred Great Man. He had nothing of Barbarity in his Nature, but
    in all Points addressed himself as if his Education had been in
    some European Court.

    This great and just character of Oroonoko gave me an extreme
    Curiosity to see him, especially when I knew he spoke French and
    English, and that I could talk with him. But though I had heard so
    much of him, I was as greatly surprised when I saw him, as if I had
    heard nothing of him; so beyond all Report I found him. He came
    into the Room, and addressed himself to me and some other Women
    with the best Grace in the World. He was pretty tall, but of a
    Shape the most exact that can be fancyed: The most famous Statuary
    could not form the figure of a Man more admirably turned from Head
    to Foot. His face was not of that brown lusty Black which most of
    that Nation are, but a perfect Ebony or polished Jet. His Eyes were
    the most aweful that could be seen, and very piercing; the White of
    'em being like Snow, as were his teeth. His Nose was rising and
    Roman, instead of African and flat. His Mouth the finest Shape that
    could be seen; far from those great turn'd Lips which are so
    natural to the rest of the Negroes. The whole Proportion and Air of
    his Face was nobly and exactly form'd, that bating his Colour,
    there would be nothing in Nature more beautiful, agreeable and
    handsome. There was no one Grace wanting that bears the Standard of
    true Beauty. His Hair came down to his Shoulders, by the aids of
    Art, which was by pulling it out with a quill, and keeping it
    comb'd; of which he took particular care. Nor did the perfections
    of his Mind come short of those of his Person; for his Discourse
    was admirable upon almost any Subject; and whoever had heard him
    speak, would have been convinced of their Errors, that all fine Wit
    is confined to the white Men, especially to those of Christendom;
    and would have confessed that Oroonoko was as capable even of
    reigning well, and of governing as wisely, had as great a Soul, as
    politick Maxims, and was as sensible of Power, as any Prince
    civilized in the most refined Schools of Humanity and Learning, or
    the most illustrious Courts.[89]

"Oroonoko" is the only one of Mrs Behn's stories which has a didactic aim or a special interest
of any kind. Her other works of fiction are short tales, usually founded on fact, which describe
in unrestrained language the passion and adventures of a pair of very ardent lovers. They show
the prevailing inclination in narrative fiction toward characters and scenes taken from actual
life. But they have no interest apart from the slender thread of the story itself. They contain
no studies of character, and no information of importance concerning contemporary manners.
Their heroes and heroines differ from each other only in the intensity or the circumstances
of their love. The best in narrative interest, and the most attractive in tone, is the "Lucky
Mistake." It is without the grossness characteristic of Mrs. Behn's works, and gives quite
a pretty account of the loves of a young French nobleman and an unusually modest young woman
named Atlante. Mrs. Behn's notion of love is contained in the opening lines of the "Fair Jilt,"
the most licentious of her tales. "As Love is the most noble and divine Passion of the Soul,
so it is that to which we may justly attribute all the real Satisfactions of Life; and without
it Man is Unfinished and unhappy. There are a thousand Things to be said of the Advantages
this generous Passion brings to those whose Hearts are capable of receiving its soft Impressions;
for 'tis not Every one that can be sensible of its tender Touches. How many Examples from History
and Observation could I give of its wondrous Power; nay, even to a degree of Transmigration!
How many Idiots has it made wise! How many Fools eloquent! How many home-bred Squires accomplished!
How many cowards brave!" There is no doubt that Mrs. Behn was fully alive to the strength of
the passion she describes, but as Sir Richard Steele said, she "understood the practic part
of love better than the speculative." In accordance with the views general amidst the society
of her own time, she represented love merely as a physical passion, and made the interest of
her stories depend on its gratification, and not on the ennobling effects or subtle manifestations
of which it is capable.

There is a great deal in that well-known anecdote of Sir Walter Scott's, in which he relates
that he "was acquainted with an old lady of family, who assured him that, in her younger days,
Mrs. Behn's novels were as currently upon the toilette as the works of Miss Edgeworth at present;
and described with some humor her own surprise, when the book falling into her hands after
a long interval of years, and when its contents were quite forgotten, she found it impossible
to endure, at the age of fourscore, what at fifteen, she, like all the fashionable world of
the time, had perused without an idea of impropriety." This is a striking illustration of the
mere relativeness of such words as "morality," "refinement," and their opposites. If this old
lady could have lived over her early youth embued with the refinement of taste which surrounded
her declining years, she would have been still more shocked at the coarseness of language,
and the looseness of conduct and morals which prevailed among the highest ranks. At the same
time she would have observed, that the society which appeared to her coarse and corrupt was
far from so considering itself. What is gross to one age may have been the refinement of the
last. A young girl considered modest and discreet at the end of the seventeenth century, if
transferred unchanged to the end of the eighteenth, would have shocked the women she met with
by talking of subjects unmentioned in society with a freedom and broadness unusual among the
men. In judging a literary work from the point of view of morality or refinement, we must compare
it with the standard of the age to which it belongs, and not with our own. Pope's graphic lines,
in which he describes Mrs. Behn's position as a dramatist,

     "The stage how loosely doth Astræa tread,
      Who fairly puts all characters to bed."

apply almost equally well to her novels. But still the contemporary reader found nothing in
their pages to offend his sense of propriety. And Mrs. Behn, who simply put into a literary
form ideas and scenes which were common in the society about her, cannot with justice be accused
of an intention to pander to the lowest tastes of her readers. She said herself, when reproved
for the tone of her plays, which was much inferior to that of her novels: "I make challenge
to any person of common sense and reason, that is not wilfully bent on ill nature, and will,
in spite of sense, wrest a double entendre from everything * * * but any unprejudiced person
that knows not the author--to read one of my comedies and compare it with others of this age,
and if they can find one word which can offend the chastest ear, I will submit to all their
pevish cavills." All this is worthy of note, if we are to follow the course of English fiction
without prejudice. For it will be shown that the nineteenth century, with all its well-deserved
pride in an advanced refinement and morality, has produced a large number of novelists, both
male and female, whose works are as immoral as those of Mrs. Behn, without her excuse. Who,
with all the advantages accruing from life in a refined age, with every encouragement to pursue
a better course, have deliberately chosen to court an infamous notoriety by making vice familiar
and attractive. And this too, at a time when a general confidence in the purity of contemporary
literary works has practically done away with parental censorship; when books of evil tendency
are as likely to fall into the hands of the young and susceptible as those of elevating tendency--a
circumstance which adds a new responsibility to the duties of the conscientious writer.

[Footnote 87: Dunlop's "History of Fiction," chap. iv.]

[Footnote 88: "The Fair Hypocrite," "The Physician's Stratagem," "The Wife's Resentment," "The
Husband's Resentment," in two parts; "The Happy Fugitive," "The Perjured Beauty."]

[Footnote 89: "History of Oroonoko," Mrs. Behn's "Collected plays and novels."]

CHAPTER VI.

THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY.
  I.--ENGLAND UNDER ANNE AND THE FIRST TWO GEORGES.
 II.--SWIFT, ADDISON, DEFOE.
III.--RICHARDSON, FIELDING, SMOLLETT.

I.

The advance of a nation in numbers and civilization is accompanied by so great a complexity
of social conditions that in this volume it is possible only to attempt to seize such salient
characteristics of the eighteenth century as may serve to throw light on the course of English
fiction. No age presents a more prosaic aspect. If we consider the condition of England at
the beginning of the eighteenth century, the prevalence of abuses and corruption left by the
ignorance or vice of preceding years, and reflect at the same time upon the progressive nature
of the people, the practical habit of their minds, and the moral earnestness which they never
wholly lost, it is not surprising to find that the century is one of reforms. Population and
wealth had outgrown the laws and customs which had hitherto served for their control, and though
in the earlier part of the period we find corruption in public and private life, indifference
in religion, inadequate provision for the education of the young, gross abuses in jurisprudence,
and coarseness of action and taste throughout the social system, there is also perceptible
a solid foundation of good-sense and an earnest desire for improvement, which gradually, as
the century wore on, introduced one reform after another, until many of those benefits were
attained or made possible which the present century almost unconsciously enjoys. We should
lose one of the most instructive lessons which history can afford, if, with Carlyle, we should
allow the eighteenth century to lie "massed up in our minds as a disastrous, wrecked inanity,
not useful to dwell upon,"[90] The England of that century was modern England, but modern England,
burdened with a heritage of corruption and ignorance which it is the glory of the time to have
in large part discarded. It was a time of social and material progress, and it was also the
period of the growth and perfection of English fiction. To thoroughly understand the one, we
must be acquainted with the other, and it will be the object of the two following chapters
to trace the development of the English novel in connection with that national development
of which it will be shown to be in great measure the exponent.

That subordination of the imagination to reason, which, after the Restoration, became so marked
in English thought on intellectual, political, and religious subjects, was continued in the
eighteenth century with results which affected the whole current of national life. Before the
light of physical science, silent but irresistible in its advances, faded away the remains
of dogmatism and superstition. Astrology was forgotten in astronomy; belief in modern miracles
and witchcraft ceased to take root in minds conscious of a universe too vast for realization,
and governed by laws so regular, that probability could not attach to arbitrary interference
by God or the devil. From the broadening of the intellectual horizon finally resulted inestimable
benefits; but these benefits were purchased at the price of much temporary evil. If in religion,
the rational tendencies prepared the way for the liberal and undogmatic Christianity to come,
their effect for many years was to be seen only in scepticism, in a mocking indifference to
religion itself, in a contempt of high moral aspirations and sentiments. If in politics, the
final effect of these tendencies was to introduce new wisdom into government, they showed for
long no other result than the suppression of all the higher qualities of a statesman, the disappearance
of every sign of patriotism other than an ignorant hatred of foreign countries, the complete
subversion of public spirit by private rapacity.

The prevailing intellectual characteristics are marked, in literature, by the great predominance
of prose over poetry. It will be no disparagement to Pope, Prior, Gray, Collins, Akenside,
Goldsmith, or Young, to say that they did not attain in poetry what in prose was attained by
Swift, Defoe, Steele, Addison, Bolingbroke, Richardson, Fielding, Smollet, Hume, Gibbon, Junius,
and Burke; while Goldsmith is as much valued for his prose as for his verse, Addison, Swift,
and Johnson more so. It is to these men, and to contemporaries of lesser note, that English
literature is indebted for the invention or perfection of prose forms of the highest importance
and beauty. Defoe stands pre-eminent among the founders of the newspaper, destined to attain
so high a degree of power and utility. Addison, Steele, and Johnson made the essay one of the
most attractive and popular forms of literature. Lady Mary Wortley Montagu, Horace Walpole,
Chesterfield, and Junius brought letter-writing to perfection. Defoe, Addison, Richardson,
and Fielding developed the realistic novel. A prosaic and conventional tone pervaded even the
poetry of the period. Appreciation of poetry was almost extinguished, Addison, writing of the
poets of the past, made no mention of Shakespeare, and found it possible to say of Chaucer:

      In vain he jests in his unpolish'd strain,
      And tries to make his readers laugh, in vain.

And of Spenser:

      Old Spenser next, warm'd with poetick rage,
      In ancient tales amus'd a barb'rous age.

During the brilliant era of literary activity, known by the name of Queen Anne, men of letters
were encouraged by the government by means of employment or rewards. They were supported also
by the public through the high social consideration which was freely accorded to men of talent.
Literary success was a passport to the houses and the intimacy of the great. But under the
first two Georges and the administration of Walpole the government was seconded by the public
in its neglect of authors and their works. In those days the circle of readers was too small
to afford remuneration to authorship. Employment or help from the government was almost a sine
qua non for the production of works which required time and research. While under Anne, Swift
received a deanery, Addison was Secretary of State, Steele a prominent member of Parliament,
and Newton, Locke, Prior, Gay, Rowe, Congreve, Tickell, Parnell, and Pope all received direct
or indirect aid from the government, in the reigns of George I and George II, Steele died in
poverty, Savage walked the streets for want of a lodging, Johnson lived in penury and drudgery.
Thomson was deprived of a small office which formed his sole dependence.[92] This neglect of
authors and of literature was only partially due to an unappreciative government. It was supported
by the indifference of a public in a high degree material and unintellectual. Conversation
in France, said Chesterfield, "turns at least upon some subject, something of taste, some point
of history, criticism, and even philosophy; which, though probably not quite so solid as Mr.
Locke's, is, however, better and more becoming rational beings than our frivolous dissertations
upon the weather or upon whist."

In keeping with the unimpassioned and prosaic tone of the time, was the low state of religious
feeling, and the degeneration of the church, both in its own organization and in public esteem.
The upper classes of society, as a rule, were lukewarm and insincere in any form of belief.
Statesman and nobles in the most prominent positions combined professed irreligion with open
profligacy, while the lower classes were left, through the indolence and selfishness of the
clergy, almost without religious teaching. Montesquieu found that people laughed when religion
was mentioned in London drawing-rooms. Sir Robert Walpole put the general feeling in his own
coarse way. The dislike of theological controversy left by the civil wars was aided by the
Act of Toleration in giving the nation a religious peace, and in diverting human energy from
religious speculations or emotions. The rational character of the national intellect was inclined
to what was material and tangible, to physical study or industry. The general desire to submit
all questions to the test of a critical reason, induced the clergy to apply the same test to
theology. But while these tendencies, in their final result, were on the whole beneficial to
religion, their temporary effect was injurious to it in a high degree. With a few exceptions,
such as Butler, Berkeley, and Wilson, the clergy shared the indifference of their flocks. The
upper ranks were indolent, selfish, often immoral; the lower, poor, ignorant, and degraded
in social position. Bishops and prominent clergymen, under the system of pluralities, left
their congregations to the care of hungry curates, and sought promotion by assiduous attendance
at ministers' levees, or by paying court to the king's mistresses. It is not surprising that
public respect for them and for their calling almost died away. Pope wrote sneeringly:[94]

      EVEN in a BISHOP I can spy desert;
      Seeker is decent, Rundle has a heart.

A naked Venus hung in the room where prayers were read while Queen Caroline dressed, which
Dr. Madox sarcastically termed "a very proper altar-piece."[95] Of the High Churchmen Defoe
declared that "the spirit of Christianity is fled from among them." When the Prince of Wales
died, George the Second appointed governors and preceptors for the prince's children. Horace
Walpole's description[96] of one of these is significant. "The other Preceptor was Hayter,
Bishop of Norwich, a sensible well-bred man, natural son of Blackbourn, the jolly old Archbishop
of York, who had all the manners of a man of quality, though he had been a Buccaneer and was
a Clergyman; but he retained nothing of his first profession except his seraglio."

While the attention of the upper clergy was largely absorbed by thoughts of private profit
and by the pursuit of worldly advancement, the lower ranks were left in a position degrading
alike to themselves and to religion. In the country a clergyman was little above a peasant
in social consideration, and seldom equal to him in the comforts of life. To eke out the sustenance
of himself and family, hard labor in his own garden was by no means the most menial of the
services he was obliged to perform. His wife was usually a servant-maid taken from a neighboring
country house, and the kitchen was his most common resort when he visited the home of a squire.
A private chaplain was little above a servant. In London, many clergymen fell into the prisons
through debt or crime. From the ranks of the lower clergy were recruited the "buck-parsons,"
so long a scandal to the church and to public morality; and the large body of "Fleet parsons,"
of infamous character, in the pay of gin shops and taverns, who, for a trifling sum, performed
what were legal marriages between boys and girls, drunkards and runaways.

The corruption in political life, begun under the Restoration and increased during the Revolution,
was amplified and reduced to a system under Walpole until government seemed to be based on
bribery. Ridiculing public spirit and disinterested motives in others, he bribed George the
Second with the promise of a large civil list, bribed Queen Caroline with a large allowance,
bribed members of Parliament with sinecures, pensions, or with direct payment of money, and
paid himself with wealth and a peerage. Corruption was so firmly rooted as an engine of power,
that no serious discredit attached to it. So low had fallen the standard of political honor,
so widespread had become the spirit of self-seeking and corruption among the ministers and
in Parliament, that "Love of our country," wrote Browne, "is no longer felt; and except in
a few minds of uncommon greatness, the principle of public spirit exists not."[97] The dominating
idea of political life was well put in the words of the Marquis of Halifax: "Parties in a state,
generally, like freebooters, hang out false colors; the pretence is public good, the real business
is to catch prizes." Lord Hervey divided the Whig party in 1727 into "Patriots and Courtiers,
which was in plain English, 'Whigs in place,' and 'Whigs out of place.'"[98] The assertion
of disinterestedness met only with ridicule. In an interview with Queen Caroline, "when Lord
Stair talked of his conscience with great solemnity, the queen (the whole conversation being
in French) cried out: Ah, my Lord, ne me parlez point de conscience, vous me faîtes évanouir."[99]
As personal advancement, and not the public service, was the ruling aim of statesmen, it is
not surprising that for this advancement no means were regarded as too low. The king's mistresses
were the object of ceaseless attentions from aspirants for office, and sometimes were the recipients
of their bribes. Treachery was the order of the day. Bolingbroke said to Sir Robert Walpole,
"that the very air he breathed was the gift of his bounty," and then left Sir Robert to tell
the king that Walpole "was the weakest minister any prince ever employed abroad, and the wickedest
that ever had the direction of affairs at home."[100] The Duke of Newcastle, that "living,
moving, talking caricature," stands out an exaggerated type of the common statesmen of the
time; "hereditary possessors of ennobled folly,"[101] maintained in offices which they had
no capacity to fill by corruption, the abuse of patronage, and the control of rotten boroughs.
Speaking of the Dukes of Devonshire, Grafton, and Newcastle, Lord Hervey says[102]: "The two
first were mutes, and the last often wished so by those he spoke for, and always by those he
spoke to." George the Second appreciated the character and objects of his advisers. He had,
also, a frank and pointed way of describing them. In his opinion Sir Robert Walpole was "a
great rogue"; Mr. Horace Walpole, ambassador to France, was a "dirty buffoon"; Newcastle, an
"impertinent fool"; Lord Townshend, a "choleric blockhead";[103] while Lord Chesterfield was
disposed of as a "tea-table scoundrel."[104] He complained that he was "obliged to enrich people
for being rascals, and buy them not to cut his throat."[105] "The king and queen," wrote Hervey,
"looked upon human kind as so many commodities in a market, which, without favor or affection,
they considered only in the degree they were useful, and paid for them in that proportion--Sir
Robert Walpole being sworn appraiser to their Majesties at all these sales."[106]

The cringing subserviency of political men was equal to their corruption. When George I died,
and it was believed that Sir Spencer Compton would succeed to the power of Sir Robert Walpole,
at the king's reception "Sir Robert walked through these rooms as if they had been still empty;
his presence, that used to make a crowd wherever he appeared, now emptied every corner he turned
to, and the same people who were officiously a week ago clearing the way to flatter his prosperity,
were now getting out of it to avoid sharing his disgrace. Sir Robert Walpole, said the latter,
"had more warmth of affection and friendship for some particular people than one could have
believed it possible for any one who had been so long raking in the dirt of mankind to be capable
of feeling for so worthless a species of animals. One should naturally have imagined that the
contempt and distrust he must have had for the species in gross, would have given him at least
an indifference and distrust toward every particular."[109]

The mercenary character of Parliament allowed the first two Georges to have much their own
way as long as the money held out. Liberty of the subject, if not in great danger, had certainly
lost its natural guardian. Few seats depended on a direct and popular vote. Most of them were
in the gift of noblemen or rich commoners, "rotten boroughs," having only "the bare name of
a town, of which there remains not so much as the ruins."[110] Defoe tells us that the market
price of a seat was a thousand guineas. The object of the purchaser was less often the service
of his country, or even an honorable ambition, than the profit to be made from the sale of
his vote. Members not infrequently had regular salaries from the government. "Sir Robert Walpole
and the queen both told me separately," wrote Lord Hervey, "that it (the victory of the court)
cost the king but 900l.--500l. to one man, and 400l. to another; and that even those two sums
were advanced to two men who were to have received them at the end of the session had this
question never been moved, and who only took this opportunity to solicit prompt payment."[111]
Lord Chesterfield, in the same letter in which he spoke of the corrupt influencing of elections
as a high crime and misdemeanor, recommends the Earl of Marchmont to bribe "some of your venal
peers" to confess that they took money to vote for the court.[112] "Ever since Lord Granville
went out," wrote Horace Walpole in 1744, "all has been in suspense. * * * To talk, therefore,
in the patriot strain you have done to me on this occasion, can move me, my Lord, to nothing
but laughter."

In the words of Mr. Lecky,[115] the government was "corrupt, inefficient, and unheroic, but
it was free from the gross vices of continental administrations; it was moderate tolerant,
and economical; it was, with all its faults, a free government, and it contained in itself
the elements of reformation." The national industry and resolution, particularly in the middle
classes, brought about a great increase of wealth, a remarkable development of manufactures
and commerce, which gave the country the extraordinary prosperity which it has since, almost
without a check, enjoyed. The external appearance of England presented a new aspect. A fourth
part of the whole land was redeemed from waste and put under cultivation.[116] The advance
in agriculture and manufactures, making necessary better means of communication, introduced
canals and substituted fine highways for the old muddy, robber-infested roads. The condition
of these as late as 1736 may be inferred from that of the road between Kensington and London:
"The road between this place and London is grown so infamously bad, that we live here in the
same solitude as we should do if cast on a rock in the middle of the ocean, and all the Londoners
tell us there is between them and us a great, impassable gulf of mud. There are two roads through
the Park, but the new one is so convex and the old one so concave, that by this extreme of
faults they agree in the common one of being, like the high-road, impassable."[117]

Social life was marked by the same corruption, by the same absence of high aspirations and
standards which we have seen in politics. The nation, especially the higher ranks, had not
recovered from the license of the Restoration, while the agencies which can preserve virtue
and refinement in a society were almost inactive. Religion, partly in consequence of the reaction
which followed the civil wars, and partly in consequence of the spread of rational tendencies,
had lost its hold on society, and no longer sufficed to keep it in check. Theological controversy,
although it issue in narrowness and persecution, yet has the merit of keeping alive an appreciation
of high moral qualities and aims. In the absence of strong religious feeling, there is yet
in the human mind a natural preference for what is beautiful and honorable, usually taking
the form of ideals, which may keep up a social tone. This may be seen in the age of Elizabeth,
not a very religious period, but one in which poetry and elevation of thought overshadow coarseness
and immorality. The nineteenth century, again, is neither marked by strong religious feelings
nor by any great tendency to idealization. And yet the nineteenth century has its standard,
firmly based on public opinion, made up of a respect for decency and justice, a love of refinement,
and an appreciation of the expediency as well as the attractiveness of virtue; a standard which
influences many minds over which religion has little control. But in the earlier part of the
eighteenth century, religion had ceased to govern, and had not yet attained that moral influence
which, even in the absence of strong faith, establishes rectitude of conduct, philanthropy,
and purity of thought in the minds of men. The ideals and aspirations of preceding centuries
had no meaning for what Addison called an "understanding age," and the standard of order, refinement
and taste of the present had yet to come. The low state of society was realized and revolted
against by the best minds of the time. Gay lampooned it in the "Beggars' Opera," Swift satirized
it in "Gulliver's Travels," Defoe became by force of circumstances a moral teacher; Addison,
Steele, all the essayists preached lay sermons; the novelists set out with the object, less
to amuse than to instruct, to improve their readers. This tendency, so marked in the literature
of the time, is the evidence of the reforming influences at work. But many years passed before
their effect was perceptible.

There is nothing attractive about George the First and his two ugly old mistresses, the "Elephant"
and the "Maypole"; nor about his court of Germans, utilizing their time in England by accumulating
money to carry back to Hanover when the harvest time had passed. George the Second, brave,
but narrow and ill-tempered, embodied in himself the coarseness of the time. He loved his wife,
who was faithful to him through every outrage and every neglect. He caused one side to be taken
out of her coffin, so that when he should be laid beside her his dust might mingle with hers.
He esteemed her so highly, that in his grief at losing her, he went so far as to say that if
she had not been his wife, he would have wished her for a mistress. To this wife, whom, in
his own way, he sincerely loved and sincerely mourned, he confided all the details of his amours
with other women. From Hanover, where he was acquiring Madame Walmoden as his mistress, "he
acquainted the queen by letter of every step he took--of the growth of his passion, the progress
of his applications, and their success, of every word as well as every action that passed--so
minute a description of her person that, had the queen been a painter, she might have drawn
her rival's picture at six hundred miles' distance. He added, too, the account of his buying
her, and what he gave her, which, considering the rank of the purchaser, and the merits of
the purchase as he set them forth, I think he had no great reason to brag of, when the first
price, according to his report, was only one thousand ducats--a much greater proof of his economy
than his passion."[118] Among many extraordinary relations and expressions his letters contained,
"there was one in which he desired the queen to contrive, if she could, that the Prince of
Modena, who was to come the latter end of the year to England, might bring his wife with him;
and the reason he gave for it was, that he heard her Highness was pretty free of her person,
and that he had the greatest inclination imaginable to pay his addresses to a daughter of the
late Regent of France, the Duke of Orleans--'un plaisir' (for he always wrote in French), 'que
je suis sur, ma chère Caroline, vous serez bien aise de me procurer, quand je vous dis combien
je le souhaite.' Such a request to his wife respecting a woman he never saw, and during his
connection with Madame Walmoden, speaks much stronger in a bare narrative of the fact, than
by any comment or reflections; and is as incapable of being heightened as difficult to be credited."[119]

Queen Caroline bore all this without a murmur in order to retain her political influence with
the king. To the power of the queen she sacrificed the feelings of the woman. With many good
qualities and considerable ability, she shared in the prevailing coarseness. Her son, the Prince
of Wales, was a very disagreeable person. Neither the queen nor the Princess Caroline "made
much ceremony of wishing a hundred times a day that the prince might drop down dead of an apoplexy--the
queen cursing the hour of his birth, and the Princess Caroline declaring she grudged him every
hour he continued to breathe; and reproaching Lord Hervey" for ever having believed "the nauseous
beast (those were her words) cared for anybody but his own nauseous self."[120] The morning
after the prince had been ordered to leave the palace, "the queen, at breakfast, every now
and then repeated, 'I hope, in God, I shall never see him again'; and the king, among many
other paternal douceurs in his valediction to his son, said,'Thank-God, to-morrow night the
puppy will be out of my house.'"[121] "My dear Lord" said the queen to Hervey, "I will give
it to you under my own hand, if you are in any fear of my relapsing, that my dear first-born
is the greatest ass and the greatest liar and the greatest canaille, and the greatest beast
in the whole world, and that I most heartily wish he was out of it."[122] After the royal family,
Sir Robert Walpole was the most prominent person in the country. He went about publicly with
his mistress, and entertained his friends at his country-seat with orgies which disturbed the
whole neighborhood. When the queen died he urged the princesses to get their father some new
mistress to distract him. Lord Hervey says that Lady Sundon "had sense enough to perceive what
black and dirty company, by living in a court, she was forced to keep."[123] Lady Deloraine,
who was suspected of being the king's mistress, "when she spoke seriously to Sir Robert Walpole,
pretended not to have yet yielded; and said 'she was not of an age like a vain or a loving
fool, but that if she did consent, that she would be well paid.'"[124] "She told Lady Sundon,
with whom she was very little acquainted, that the king had been very importunate these two
years; and had often told her how unkind she was to refuse him; that it was mere crossness,
for that he was sure her husband would not take it at all ill."[125] The looseness of the marriage
tie had been a prevailing evil ever since the Restoration. Steele wrote in the Tatler in 1710:
"The wits of this island for above fifty years past, instead of correcting the vices of the
age, have done all they could to inflame them. Marriage has been one of the common topics of
ridicule that every stage scribbler hath found his account in; for whenever there is an occasion
for a clap, an impertinent jest upon matrimony is sure to raise it. This hath been attended
with very pernicious consequences. Many a country squire, upon his setting up for a man of
the town, has gone home in the gaiety of his heart and beat his wife. A kind husband hath been
looked upon as a clown, and a good wife as a domestic annual unfit for the company or conversation
of the beau monde. In short, separate beds, silent tables, and solitary homes have been introduced
by your men of wit and pleasure of the age."[126]

The prevailing immorality and coarseness were in keeping with the absence of sympathy with
all elevation of thought and sentiment. "If a man of any delicacy were to attend the discourses
of the young fellows of this age," wrote Steele, "he would believe that there were none but
prostitutes to make the objects of passion."[127] "Every woman is at heart a rake," thought
Pope. Women were generally treated with disrespect, and distinctively female virtues were almost
without appreciation. It is instructive to contrast the deeds of arms done in honor of a mistress
in the Middle Ages, and the elevated sentiments held regarding women in what Addison called
a "barbarous age," with the actions by which young men sometimes showed their devotion in the
earlier part of the eighteenth century. The latter were as extravagant as the former, but extravagant
after how different a manner. One young fellow, distinguished himself by drinking wine strained
through his mistress' chemise; another, by drinking out of her shoe; another, by having her
slipper torn to shreds, cooked, and served up as a dish. Coarseness of thought naturally brought
on coarseness of action. But even they were insensible to an elevated view of the relations
between men and women. Such a view was, however, taken by Defoe; a man whom Steele and Addison,
as well as the polite world in general, looked upon as an adventurer, and one whose opinions
on social subjects they disdained. "We reproach the sex every day," wrote Defoe, "with folly
and impertinence, while I am confident, had they the advantages of education equal to us, they
would be guilty of less than ourselves. * * * I cannot think that God ever made them so delicate,
so glorious creatures, and furnished them with such charms, so agreeable and so delightful
to mankind, with souls capable of the same enjoyments as men, and all to be only stewards of
our houses, cooks, and slaves."[129] Defoe stands almost alone in his remonstrance against
the neglect of female education. But he stands more isolated still in his appreciation of womanly
virtues, and in the enthusiasm with which he could speak of them. "A woman well-bred and well-taught,
furnished with the additional accomplishments of knowledge and behavior, is a creature without
comparison. Her society is the emblem of sublimer enjoyments; she is all softness and sweetness,
love, wit, and delight; she is every way suitable to the sublimest wish; and the man that has
such a one to his portion, has nothing to do but to rejoice in her and be thankful."[130]

Love was hardly distinguished from mere animal desire. The poets wrote of it coldly and conventionally,
as of a thing which existed only in name. The lover could only beg his mistress "to ease his
pain." But the conventionality which extended through all thoughts and expressions relating
to the higher emotions of the human soul, had no effect in diminishing the coarseness of thought
and conversation. Men were conventional as regards the nobler sentiments of life, but they
were not conventional in the spirit which excludes from conversation and literature the gross
and the immoral. Chesterfield wrote to his son of honor, justice, and so forth, as qualities
of which he should know the names, but of no consequence compared to "manners, good-breeding,
and the graces." If a man blushed, it was not at his own indecency, nor at his own vice, but
at the supposition that he could be so weak as to be influenced by sentiments of delicacy.
Coarseness is, of course, quite separate from immorality, although the two are usually found
together. In the earlier part of the eighteenth century there was a marked distinction between
them. Swift's Stella, a woman of refinement, was highly indignant at remarks being made before
her of a licentious character, but she herself used expressions of the grossest description
without a thought of impropriety. The same distinction is seen in the essays and novels of
the time. Swift, Defoe, Fielding, Richardson, all had a moral object in their fictions--the
exposure and condemnation of vice, the encouragement of virtue. And yet most of these novels,
especially intended to exert a good influence, are of so coarse a nature, and describe scenes
so licentious that no parent would now allow them in their children's hands. The essayists
wrote principally what we should now look upon as sermons, or moral teachings, and yet very
many of their papers are unfit to be read in a mixed society. Men and women were made then
of coarser stuff than we. Their eyes and ears were less sensitive. They were, at best, accustomed
to think and speak of things which to us seem disgusting, and of which, therefore, we think
and speak as little as possible. In view of the circumstances which influenced society in the
last century, this condition was a perfectly natural one. We must bear it in mind in reading
contemporary literature, that we may not mistake an author's intention. But we must be careful
in censuring what was, after all, only one necessary stage in the development of our own civilization.
It must be said, also, that the coarseness of the eighteenth century was a healthy coarseness,
bred of energetic natures and animal spirits. In our time, and in the midst of our advanced
refinement there lurks a sickly sentimentality, a false modesty, and an unhealthy delicacy
which are in a degree inimical to morality. We have novels in great numbers, not broadly coarse,
as those of Fielding or Smollett, but insidiously immoral, painting vice and unbridled passions
in an attractive light.

The same rude and physical coarseness controlled the standard of taste, and introduced boisterousness
and violence even into amusements.

Mrs. Delany, whose character has excited so much admiration in her own and in succeeding generations,
left, in her autobiography and letters, a picture of the society about her as seen by one of
the most refined and cultivated women of the time. Like many others, she was struck with disgust
at the coarseness and immorality which surrounded her. "It is enough to make one a cynic, to
shun the world, and shut oneself up in a tub as Diogenes did; but I must acknowledge, though
the age is very degenerate, that it is not quite void of perfection. I know some persons that
still reconcile me to the world, and that convince me that virtue is not fled, though it is
confined to a few."[133] "The men have so despicable an opinion of women, and treat them by
their words and actions so ungenerously and inhumanly."[134] "The women were never so audacious
as now; this may well be called the brazen age."[135] The material tone of society and its
lack of sentiment were largely responsible for the low estimation in which women were held.
Marriages were almost universally arranged on the simple basis of money, a circumstance which
explains much of the conjugal infidelity and unhappiness which prevailed. "My Lady A.'s behaviour,"
wrote Mrs. Delany,[136] "and some more wives' behaviour of the same stamp, has so disgraced
matrimony that I am not surprised the men are afraid of it; and if we consider the loose morals
of the men, it is strange the women are so easily won to their own undoing." Mrs. Delany, while
a young married woman, although she was known to be of a virtuous character, was subjected
to licentious attacks which fell little short of violence. It is hardly necessary to comment
on the hard drinking and the hard swearing which were almost universal characteristics of gentlemen
of fashion. Duelling was still a custom, and gambling was the favorite amusement at court,
at the clubs, and in ladies' drawing-rooms. The title of gentleman depended on birth, and had
nothing to do with personal conduct. Caste feeling was very strong. Gentlemen looked upon professional
men or men of letters as beneath them, however superior they might be in manners, morals, or
education. A curious instance of this caste feeling occurred in the case of Captain Vratz,
who said of himself and companions on their way to the gallows for murder, that "God would
show them some respect as they were gentlemen." When Gay's "Beggar's Opera" was put on the
stage, the fashionable world crowded to see their own coarseness and immorality exhibited in
the persons of thieves and highwaymen, and to laugh at the truth of the Beggar's words: "Through
the whole piece you may observe such a similitude of manners in high and low life, that it
is difficult to determine whether (in the fashionable vices) the fine gentlemen imitate the
gentlemen of the road, or the gentlemen of the road the fine gentlemen."

The lower classes of society were as ignorant and brutal as the higher were coarse and corrupt.
Among the other qualities in which the times were deficient, was philanthropy. The measures
which the wisdom and charity of the present have exerted to diminish crime, and to improve
the condition of the poor, were then represented only by a harsh and cruel penal code, which
had a powerful, though an indirect tendency to promote pauperism and to multiply criminals.
Although population had greatly increased, no new provision had been made for religious teaching,
and there were no schools but those of Edward and Elizabeth.[137] Defective poor-laws, which
forbade laborers to move from one parish to another in search of work, made pauperism in many
cases the inevitable fate of the industrious. In the cities there was no adequate police regulation
of the criminal classes; and this, too, at a time when peaceful habits were fast growing among
the people at large, and police protection was more needed than ever before. At the same time
there came upon the lower classes, the terrible scourge of gin. Violent and ignorant as these
classes were, the effects upon them of so cheap and maddening a drink were incalculably debasing.
"The drunkenness of the common people," says an eye-witness, "was so universal by the retailing
of a liquor called gin, with which they could get drunk for a groat, that the whole town of
London, and many towns in the country swarmed with drunken people of both sexes from morning
to night, and were more like a scene from a Bacchanal than the residence of a civil society."[138]
The sign which hangs over the inn-door in Hogarth's picture of Gin Lane, and announces that
the customer can get drunk for a penny, dead drunk for twopence, and have straw for nothing,
was a copy, not an invention. Attempts to limit the traffic in gin were met by riots so fierce
that the government was obliged to withdraw its measures. The violent natures of the common
people appeared in their amusements as well as in their crimes. Their sports were of the most
brutal kind, and almost all involved the sufferings of men or animals. Among other entertainments
advertised to take place in London in 1729 and 1730, were "a mad bull to be dressed up with
fireworks and turned loose in the game place, a dog to be dressed up with fireworks over him,
a bear to be let loose at the same time, and a cat to be tied to the bull's tail, a mad bull
dressed up with fireworks to be baited."[139] Such amusements were interspersed with cock-fighting,
prize fights, and boxing matches between women. The same brutality characterised the crimes
of the period. Violent riots, aggravated by the plunder of gin-shops, attended the preaching
of the Methodists, the Gin Act, and even the employment by Garrick of a few French dancers
at Drury Lane Theatre. Piracy and smuggling were systematically carried on, accompanied by
atrocious cruelties and murders. It was no uncommon practice for the inhabitants of the sea-coast
to lure vessels on shore by false signals in order to plunder them.

Other causes, as well as the ignorance and brutality in which the lower classes almost necessarily
lived, contributed to the number and impunity of criminals. It was only in 1736 that the streets
of London, hitherto plunged at night in total darkness, began to be lighted for a few hours
by lamps. The right of sanctuary, which still practically existed in such quarters as Whitefriars
and the Mint afforded to criminals an easy and safe retreat beyond the reach of the law. The
rougher elements of the upper as well as of the lower classes, made the streets impassable
at night without great danger. They organized themselves into bands, and committed atrocious
and wanton brutalities on inoffensive passers-by. One band, called the Modocs, indulged in
the amusement called "tipping the lion" which consisted in flattening the nose of the victim
on his face and boring out his eyes with the fingers. There were also the "dancing masters,"
who made people dance by pricking them with swords, the "sweaters," who pricked their victims
with swords till they fell exhausted, and the "tumblers," who set women on their heads and
mutilated their limbs.[140] Others rolled women down hill in barrels, cut the faces of maid-servants,
and slit the noses of watchmen. The criminal classes became so daring and numerous that the
streets were insecure even in the day-time, "It is shocking to think what a shambles this country
is grown!" wrote Walpole. Addison gave an amusing description of the precautions observed when
Sir Roger de Coverley was taken to the theatre. "The Captain, who did not fail to meet me there
at the appointed Hour, bid Sir Roger fear nothing, for that he had put on the same Sword which
he made use of at the Battle of Steenkirk. Sir Roger's Servants, and among the rest my old
Friend the Butler, had, I found, provided themselves with good oaken Plants to attend their
Master upon this occasion. When we had placed him in his Coach, with myself at his left hand,
the Captain before him, and his Butler at the Head of his Footmen in the Rear, we convoyed
him in safety to the Playhouse."[142] "One night, in the beginning of November, 1749," wrote
Walpole, "as I was returning from Holland House by moonlight, about ten at night, I was attacked
by two highwaymen in Hyde Park, and the pistol of one of them going off accidentally, razed
the skin under my left eye, left some marks of shot on my face, and stunned me."[143] These
men were taken about a year later. * * * He took to the road with only one companion, Plunkett,
a journeyman apothecary, my other friend. The criminal looked upon himself, and was looked
upon by others, as a brave man, and even those who abhorred the crime retained a certain admiration
for the courage which they thought involved in its commission. Felons sat erect and proud in
the cart which carried them to execution. Their great ambition was to die like "gentlemen,"
and they saw no disgrace in death by "the ladder and the cord," so long as it was borne with
bravado. Criminals are frequent and prominent characters in contemporary fiction. The period
contributed more than any other to the romance of crime, and a glamour has been cast over the
most infamous careers which has made them celebrated to the present day. The famous highwayman
Dick Turpin, and one Parsons, the son of a baronet, educated at Eton, attained a public interest
and admiration, in which the greatness of their crimes was forgotten in the dangers they incurred
and the boldness with which they defied justice. When Jack Sheppard, the burglar, was finally
captured after two remarkable escapes from Newgate,[145] he became a popular hero. Great numbers
of people visited him in prison and gave him presents of money. Several lives were written of him.

But the most remarkable criminal career, and that which best illustrates the inefficiency of
the law and the impunity and ferocity of criminals, is that of Johnathan Wild, surnamed the
Great.[146] This man spent some time in Newgate, and having become acquainted with the secrets
and methods of its inhabitants, married a notorious woman who was well versed in similar knowledge.
He then set up an establishment for receiving stolen goods, and organized thieves into regular
bands. Some were to rob churches, others to pick pockets at theatres and fairs, others to rob
on the streets and highways. He even divided the country into districts, and appointed a special
gang to work in each. All these thieves were obliged to account to him for what they stole,
and he disposed of it in London, or if that seemed too dangerous, he sent it abroad in a ship
of his own. He attained over lesser criminals the most rigid authority and absolute power.
His lieutenants were chosen among transported convicts who had returned before the expiration
of their terms. These were legally incapable of giving evidence against Wild, but he could
send them to the gallows at a moment's notice, if suspicious of their fidelity, by information
to the authorities. Over the common thieves he had nearly the same power. Those whom he suspected
of retaining part of their booty, or whom he feared as witnesses against himself, were at once
sent to the gallows by private information to the magistrates. On the other hand, a thief who
was in danger of arrest, if useful and faithful, was taken into Wild's own house, protected,
fed, and employed in counterfeiting or other in-door occupation. When a law was passed making
it criminal to receive stolen goods, Wild opened an intelligence office for the discovery of
missing articles. To that office came the thieves, like so many workmen, to deliver their booty
and receive their wages, and there, too, came the robbed to describe their losses and name
their rewards. If the reward were sufficient to satisfy Wild, he returned the article; otherwise
he had it made unrecognizable by skilled workmen whom he employed for the purpose, and presented
it to a faithful follower, or disposed of it in the regular course of business. It is impossible
not to notice a certain resemblance between Johnathan Wild and Defoe's English Tradesman. The
practical turn of mind, the absence of sentiment so characteristic of the times, are to be
seen alike in the thief, the tradesman, and the gentleman. Conducted on purely business principles,
like a mercer's shop or a marriage between noble families, without hatred or affection, anger
or generosity, the work went on. Wild dealt in human lives with the same cold, money-making
calculation which directed the disposal of a stolen watch. When public complaints were made,
that although many robberies were committed few thieves were apprehended, Wild supplied the
gallows with thieves who were useless to him or lukewarm in his interest. When a large reward
was offered for the apprehension of a criminal, Wild was usually able to deliver the man. If
he was unable to do so, or was friendly to the criminal, he still secured the reward by giving
false information against an innocent person, and supported his assertions by the perjury of
his subordinates. By these methods he soon grew rich. He carried a silver wand which he asserted
to be a badge of office given him by the government, and entered into secret leagues with corrupt
magistrates. After a time he called himself a gentleman, and wore a sword, the first use of
which was to cut off his wife's ear. At last he was detected in aiding the escape of a highwayman
confined in Newgate, and being deprived of his power, he was easily convicted. He was hung
in 1725, and on his way to the scaffold was almost pelted to death by the mob.

The impunity with which Wild followed his long career of crime was not unusual. The authorities
were inefficient and corrupt. Fielding, himself a police justice, makes a magistrate say in
"Amelia": "And to speak my opinion plainly, such are the laws and such the method of proceeding
that one would almost think our laws were made for the protection of rogues, rather than for
the punishment of them." The laws bore hardly upon the poor and spared the rich. "The parson,"
complained Defoe in the "Poor Man's Plea," "preaches a thundering sermon against drunkenness,
and the justice of the peace sets my poor neighbor in the stocks, and I am like to be much
the better for either, when I know perhaps that this same parson and this same justice were
both drunk together but the night before." The magistrates and constables were as much in need
of reform as the laws. "The greatest criminals in this town," said Walpole,[147] "are the officers
of justice; there is no tyranny they do not exercise, no villany of which they do not partake."
Many of the magistrates were never impartial, except, as Fielding said: "when they could get
nothing on either side." One class of constables was described by Fielding in "Amelia."[148]
The watchmen intended "to guard our streets by night from thieves and robbers, an office which
at least requires strength of body, are chosen out of those poor old decrepit people, who are
from their want of bodily strength rendered incapable of getting a livelihood by work. These
men, armed only with a pole, which some of them are scarce able to lift, are to secure the
persons and houses of his Majesty's subjects from the attacks of young, bold, stout, desperate,
and well-armed villains. If the poor old fellows should run away from such enemies, no one,
I think, can wonder, unless it be that they were able to make their escape." Defoe's pickpockets
are always more afraid of being mobbed on the spot, than of being detected and punished by
the police. Well known highwaymen not infrequently rode through the streets of London with
armed companions, although large rewards were offered for their capture. Many of the constables
were of the most villanous character.

Keepers of prisons bought their places with the distinct purpose of making money by extortions
from the prisoners. The following is an account of the means pursued by Bainbridge, Warden
of the Fleet, to extort money from one Solas, a poor man, imprisoned for debt[150]: "Bainbridge
caused him to be turned into the dungeon, called the Strong Room of the Master's side. This
place is a vault, like those in which the dead are interred, and wherein the bodies of persons
dying in the said prison are usually deposited till the coroner's inquest hath passed upon
them; it has no chimney nor fireplace, nor any light but what comes over the door, or through
a hole of about eight inches square. It is neither paved nor boarded; and the rough bricks
appear both on the sides and top, being neither wainscotted nor plastered; what adds to the
dampness and stench of the place, is its being built over the common sewer, and adjoining to
the sink and dunghill where all the nastiness of the prison is cast. In this miserable place
the poor wretch was kept by the said Bainbridge manacled and shackled for near two months.
At length on receiving five guineas from Mr. Kemp, a friend of Solas's, Bainbridge released
the prisoner from his cruel confinement. But though his chains were taken off, his terror still
remained, and the unhappy man was prevailed upon by that terror, not only to labor gratis for
the said Bainbridge, but to swear also at random all that he hath required of him; and the
committee themselves saw an instance of the deep impression his sufferings had made upon him;
for on his surmising from something said, that Bainbridge was to return again as Warden of
the Fleet, he fainted, and the blood started out of his mouth and nose." This example is by
no means an exceptional one. It is impossible, within the limits of this volume, to give an
adequate idea of the disease, the squalor, the cruelties and abuses which existed in the prisons.
Their interiors are often described by the novelists, who were unable to exaggerate the actual
circumstances. Poor prisoners, when acquitted, were dragged back to prison and kept there till
their dues were paid or they were released by death. Richer men were subjected to all sorts
of indignity and danger, even to that of small-pox, to force them to enrich their jailers.

The social condition of England in the first half of the eighteenth century presents a material
and unattractive aspect. Its most prominent characteristics are the corruption and coarseness
of the upper classes, and the ignorant brutality of the lower. Still there existed beneath
this exterior, qualities and habits in the highest degree favorable to civilization and social
order. At a later time these qualities brought about reforms which did away with many of the
worst abuses. Among the middle classes, fast rising to political and social prominence, lived
an earnest morality, which at a later time took form in the great Methodist revival, and the
rise of philanthropy. This persevering industry of the same classes added enormously to the
wealth of the nation. When reform came, it came as a revolt against existing conditions, showing
at once how bad those conditions were, and how strongly the popular mind inclined to a better
state. A general feeling of disgust prevailed which left deep traces on contemporary literature,
and produced a widespread misanthropy. The first half of the eighteenth century was to the
period of the Restoration like the morning after a debauch. Rochester, in the time of Charles
II, and Hervey, in the time of George II were representative men. The difference in the feelings
with which these men looked upon life is significant. Rochester, in the full tide of dissipation,
glories in his sensuality, and writes the "Maimed Debauchee."

      Should some brave youth (worth being drunk) prove nice,
      And from his fair inviter meanly shrink,
      'T would please the ghost of my departed vice,
      If, at my council, he repent and drink.

But Hervey represents the time when dissipation had run a long course, and disgust, sanctity,
and misanthropy were succeeding. To him, as to Swift, men were "a worthless species of animals,"
their vices, natural; their virtues, affectation:

      Mankind I know, their nature and their art,
      Their vice their own, their virtue but a part
      Ill played so oft, that all the cheat can tell,
      And dangerous only when 't is acted well,

       *       *       *       *       *

      To such reflections when I turn my mind
      I loathe my being, and abhor mankind.

[Footnote 90: Carlyle, "Frederick the Great," p. 13. vol. i.]

[Footnote 91: Addison, "An Account of the Greatest English Poets." Quoted by Henry Morley,
LL.D., "English Literature in the Reign of Victoria."]

[Footnote 92: Lecky's "History of England in the 18th Century," vol. i, p. 502.]

[Footnote 93: Lord Hervey, "Memoirs of George II," v. 3, p. 527.]

[Footnote 94: Hervey's "Mem. of George II," vol. 1, p. 147, note.]

[Footnote 95: Walpole's "Reminiscences"; Hervey's "Mem.," v. 2, p. 103, note.]

[Footnote 96: Walpole's "Mem. of George II," vol. 1, p. 87.]

[Footnote 97: Browne's "Estimate of the Times"; Lecky, "Hist. of 18th Century," vol. 1, p. 509.]

[Footnote 98: Lord Hervey, "Mem. of Geo. II," vol. i, p. 5.]

[Footnote 99: Idem, vol. i, p. 170.]

[Footnote 100: Idem, vol. i, p. 18.]

[Footnote 101: Hervey's "Mem.," i, 20.]

[Footnote 102: Idem, vol. 1, p. 208.]

[Footnote 103: Hervey's "Memoirs," 1, 39.]

[Footnote 104: Idem, ii, 360.]

[Footnote 105: Idem, ii, 31.]

[Footnote 106: Idem, vol. i, p. 91.]

[Footnote 107: Hervey's "Memoirs," vol. 1, p. 37.]

[Footnote 108: Hervey, 1, 22-25.]

[Footnote 109: Horace Walpole, "Reminiscences."]

[Footnote 110: Locke "On Civil Government," b. ii, ch. 13; Lecky's "History of the 18th Century,"
vol. I, p. 471.]

[Footnote 111: Hervey's "Memoirs," ii, 280.]

[Footnote 112: Chesterfield, "Correspondence," iii, 94.]

[Footnote 113: Walpole to Mann, Dec. 24, 1741.]

[Footnote 114: Hervey's "Memoirs," i, 172.]

[Footnote 115: "History of the Eighteenth Century," vol. 1, p. 512.]

[Footnote 116: Green's "Short History of the English People," pp. 768-9.]

[Footnote 117: Hervey, ii, 189, note.]

[Footnote 118: Hervey's "Memoirs," vol. i, p. 500.]

[Footnote 119: Hervey's "Memoirs," vol. i, p. 502.]

[Footnote 120: Lord Hervey's "Memoirs", ii, 255.]

[Footnote 121: Idem, ii, 434.]

[Footnote 122: Hervey's "Memoirs," ii, 472.]

[Footnote 123: Hervey's "Memoirs," ii, 350.]

[Footnote 124: Idem, i, 90.]

[Footnote 125: Idem, ii, 349.]

[Footnote 126: Tatler, No. 159, Saturday, April 15, 1710.]

[Footnote 127: Steele, Tatler, No. 5.]

[Footnote 128: Walpole to Montague, March 20, 1737.]

[Footnote 129: Wilson's "Memoirs of Defoe," vol. i, p. 265.]

[Footnote 130: Wilson's "Memoirs of Defoe," vol. i, p. 206.]

[Footnote 131: Steele, Tatler, No. 12 May 7, 1709.]

[Footnote 132: Walpole to Mann, Nov. 26, 1711.]

[Footnote 133: Letter to Mrs. Ann Granville, Dec. 5, 1739.]

[Footnote 134: Letter to Mrs. Ann Granville, Jan. 17, 1731-32.]

[Footnote 135: Letter to Mrs. Ann Granville, Nov. 18, 1729.]

[Footnote 136: Letter to Mrs. Ann Granville, Christmas-day, 1729.]

[Footnote 137: Green, "Short History of the English People," p. 717.]

[Footnote 138: Lord Hervey's "Memoirs of George II," vol. ii, p. 139.]

[Footnote 139: Strutt's "Sports and Pastimes," p. 259; Lecky, "History of England in the 18th
Century," vol. i, chap. iv.]

[Footnote 140: Lecky, "History of England in the 18th Century," vol. i, p. 522.]

[Footnote 141: Walpole to Sir H. Mann, March 23, 1752.]

[Footnote 142: The Spectator, "Sir Roger at the Playhouse."]

[Footnote 143: Horace Walpole, "Short Notes of My Life."]

[Footnote 144: Horace Walpole to Sir H. Mann, Aug. 2, 1750.]

[Footnote 145: See the "Newgate Calendar."]

[Footnote 146: See the "Newgate Calendar" and Pike's "History of Crime," vol. 2, chap. x.]

[Footnote 147: Walpole to Mann, bet. July 14 and 29, 1742.]

[Footnote 148: "Amelia," book i, chap. Proceedings against John Higgins, Esq., Warden of the
Fleet, Thomas Bainbridge, Esq., Warden of the Fleet, Richard Corbett, one of the Tipstaffs
of the Fleet, and William Acton, Keeper of the Marshalsea Prison: 3 George II, A.D. 1729. Report
of the Com. of the House of Commons.]

II.

Lord Hervey's bitter lines introduce us to Jonathan Swift. Nature, together with the character
of his time, made the great Dean a misanthropist. Physical infirmity, disappointed hopes, and
a long series of humiliations destroyed the happiness which should have belonged to his rare
union of noble gifts,--his tall, commanding figure, his awe-inspiring countenance, his acute
wit, and magnificent intellect. Naturally proud and sensitive to an abnormal degree, he was
obliged to suffer the most galling slights. From his earliest years he hated dependence, and
yet, until middle life he was forced to be a dependent. His education was furnished by the
charity of relatives, between whom and himself there was no affection. His college degree was
conferred in a manner which made it a disgrace rather than an honor. The long years which he
passed in the household of Sir William Temple, subject to the humors and caprices of his master,
embittered his temper at the time of life when it should have been most buoyant and hopeful.
Thus began the melancholy and misanthropy which marred his whole life, darkening his triumphs,
turning such love as he had to give into a curse to those who received it, producing an eccentricity
which often gave him the appearance of a madman, and finally bringing him to a terrible end--to
die, as he himself foretold, like a blasted elm, first at the top. He kept his birthday as
a day of mourning. He solemnly regretted his escape when nearly killed by an accident. He habitually
parted from a friend with the wish that they might never meet again. Cæsar's description of
Cassius is wonderfully applicable to Swift:[151]

                      ----He reads much;
      He is a great observer, and he looks
      Quite through the deeds of men ----
      Seldom he smiles; and smiles in such a sort
      As if he mocked himself, and scorn'd his spirit
      That could be amused to smile at any thing.

The character of Swift presents great apparent contradictions. Although full of good-will and
appreciation for individuals, although exercising out of a small income the most discriminating
and open handed generosity, there has never lived a man more bitter in his misanthropy, more
fierce in his denunciation of mankind. Although capable of great and disinterested affection,
he was unable to make his affection a source of happiness to himself or to others. Although
he always chose for companionship the most refined and cultivated women, the wisest and most
honored men, his mind dwelt by preference on the most terrible examples of human depravity,
and he gave permanent form, in his literary productions, to ideas from which a healthy mind
must always turn with horror and disgust. His misanthropy was founded partly on observation
of the evil and corruption which he saw about him, and partly on the suspicions and exaggerations
of his own imagination. He gave up writing a history of England, because, in his own words,
he found the characters of history such a pack of rascals that he would have no more to say
to them. He made a "List of Friends," which he classified as Grateful, Ungrateful, Indifferent,
and Doubtful. Of these friends, forty-four in number, only seventeen were marked with the g
which signified that their friendship was trusted. We cannot disassociate Swift from his own
time, nor can we attribute simply to a melancholy life or to mental aberration the revolting
conceptions which his works contain. The coarseness and corruption which marked the private
and public life of Swift's day had their share in the production of such poems as The "Lady's
Dressing-Room," and such degrading views of human nature as are expressed in the "Voyage to
the Houyhnhnms."

It is a significant sign of the times that Hogarth, the greatest English painter, and Swift,
the greatest English writer, should have employed their talents in caricature and in satire.
In the wonderful allegory of the "Tale of a Tub," in which the corruptions and failings of
the English, Roman, and Presbyterian churches were ridiculed in the persons of Jack, Peter,
and Martin, Swift displayed at an early age his exuberant wit and surpassing satirical power.
The "Tale of a Tub" was succeeded by the "Battle of the Books," an imaginary conflict between
volumes in a library, which exposed the absurdity of the controversy over the relative merits
of the ancients and the moderns. But Swift's satire became most fierce and brilliant when it
was turned from rival creeds and rival literatures, and directed toward mankind itself.

The "Travels of Lemuel Gulliver" were dropped, said the publisher, at his house, in the dark,
from a hackney-coach. In regard to this work, the Dean followed his custom of sending out his
writings to the world to make their way on their own merits, without the assistance of his
name. But the authorship of the book could not long remain unknown before the storm of applause
and curiosity which it immediately excited. Whether read for the satire or the story, the adventures
of Gulliver proved equally fascinating. They "offered personal and political satire to the
readers in high life, low and coarse incidents to the vulgar, marvels to the romantic, wit
to the young and lively, lessons of morality and policy to the grave, and maxims of deep and
bitter misanthropy to neglected age and disappointed ambition."[153]

The early part of the eighteenth century offered rich material to the satirist, and Swift brought
to his work unparalleled fierceness and power. He attacked the corruption of the politician
and the minister, the vanity and vice of the courtier, the folly and extravagance of the fashionable
world, and gathering venom in his course, made his satire universal and painted the pettiness
and deformity of the human race. But among the follies and vices of mankind, vanity was the
fault most offensive to Swift, and that which he lashed with his most bitter invective. To
ridicule human pride, and to expose its inconsistency with the imperfection of man, is the
ruling object of his great satirical romance.

In the "Voyage to Lilliput" the follies and vanities of individuals and of parties are ridiculed
by the representation of their practice among diminutive beings. Sir Robert Walpole suffered
in the person of Flimnap the Lilliputian Premier, Tories and Whigs in the High-Heels and Low-Heels,
Catholics and Protestants in the Big-endians and Small-endians. In the "Voyage to Brobdingnag,"
where Gulliver finds himself a pigmy among giants, the general object of the satire is the
same, but its application becomes more bitter and universal. Characteristics of the human race
hardly perceptible in their ordinary proportions, attain a disgusting and monstrous prominence
when seen in the huge persons of the Brobdingnagians. The king of this gigantic people is represented
as a beneficent monarch, who directs all his energies toward the peace, prosperity, and material
advancement of his subjects; who seeks with a cold, calculating mind, undisturbed by passion
or prejudice, the greatest good of the greatest number. But the impression produced upon the
King of Brobdingnag by Gulliver's relation expressed the widespread sense of evil which existed
in Swift's day, which tinctured literature with misanthropy, and made Rousseau at a later time
argue the superiority of the savage man over his civilized, but corrupt and hypocritical brother.

In the voyage to Laputa the satire is directed against the vanity of human wisdom, and the
folly of abandoning useful occupations for the empty schemes of visionaries. The satire cannot
be considered too broad when we consider the folly and credulity which, at the time of the
South Sea mania, led many persons into sinking their whole fortunes in such enterprises as
the company "To Fish up Wrecks on the Irish Coast," to "Make Salt-Water Fresh," to "Extract
Silver from Lead," and to "Import Jackasses from Spain."

It is impossible within the limits of this volume to comment with any completeness on the application
of Gulliver's Travels. The satire gathered strength and bitterness in its progress, until the
limits of horror were reached in the voyage to the Houyhnhnms. This portion of the work cannot
be considered to apply universally. Man does not here perceive a truthful reflection of himself.
The Houyhnhnms, beings endowed with reason, but undisturbed and untempted by the passions or
struggles of earthly existence, are not brutes, and are not to be compared with men. The Yahoos,
in their total depravity, are not human; they represent, and that with a terrible truthfulness,
the condition into which men may fall when their animal instincts and baser passions are allowed
to subvert their reason and their noble qualities. The more a man suffers his better nature
to yield to his lower, the more he resembles the detestable Yahoo. In this sense alone, the
satire applies generally to mankind; but it applies with peculiar point to some characteristics
of Swift's time.

But Swift, in his denunciation of men under the form of the Yahoos, disclosed the narrowness
of his own misanthropy.

Thus Swift himself, from the vividness with which he realized, and the intensity with which
he hated, the vices and failings of humanity, was unable to duly appreciate the good, which,
in some measure, always accompanies the evil.

It was the habit of the great Dean to utter the witticisms which caused the continual delight
or terror of all who approached him with the most stern composure. Such was the manner of the
"Travels." The solemn and circumstantial narrative style, imitated from the old English explorers
added verisimilitude to the incidents and point to the sarcasm. Trifles, personal to the traveller
and of no consequence to the course of the story, gave an appearance of truth to the whole
work. Thus Gulliver keeps the reader informed of the most minute details interesting to himself.
In the same way he informs us carefully that the date of his sailing on the first voyage was
May 4, 1699, from Bristol, and the storm which destroyed the ship arose when in the latitude
of 30 degrees 2 minutes south. In a work of fiction only such events are expected as have a
direct bearing upon the development of the plot, and when immaterial details are introduced,
the reader is likely to be impressed with their truth. In this way the personality of Gulliver
is kept up, and he remains, through whatever strange scenes he passes, the same honest, blunt
English sailor.

Yet more remarkable is the skill of the author in maintaining the probability of the allegory.
When living among the Lilliputians, Gulliver insensibly adopts their ideas of size. He admires
as much as they the prowess of the horseman who clears his shoe at a single leap. The same
almost mathematical accuracy of proportion is kept up in the visit to Brobdingnag, and on Gulliver's
return to his native country he experiences as much trouble in reaccustoming his mind to the
ordinary standard as he had met with in adopting that of pigmies or giants. There was a country
clergyman living in Ireland, who declared there were some things in Gulliver's Travels he could
not quite believe. His difficulty probably occurred in the "Voyage to the Houyhnhnms." In the
latter part of the work Swift allowed the fiction to yield to the exigencies of the satire.
So long as we can imagine the existence of giants and pigmies, it is easy to realize all the
circumstances connected with Gulliver's existence among them, but it is impossible to feel
the same sense of reality in regard to horses who live in houses they could not build, and
who eat oats they could not harvest.[154]

The general desire for reform is not more clearly to be seen in Acts of Parliament than in
the works of Swift and Addison. The earlier part of the century was marked by a strong realization
of evil, and by a constantly growing inclination to suppress it. The first condition is illustrated
by the fierce satire of "Gulliver's Travels," the second by the earnest admonitions of the
Spectator. The two great authors make a striking contrast. Swift, misanthropic, miserable,
bitter; Addison, happy, loving mankind, admired alike by ally and opponent, Swift, dying mad;
Addison, calm, conscious, employing his last moments to ask pardon of one he had offended.
The same contrast is in their works. Swift dwelt and gloated on the evil about him, exposed
it in more than its own deformity, and left his reader to reflect on his own degradation. Addison,
to whom that evil was almost equally apparent, but who turned from its contemplation with horror,
exerted all his talents to correct it. "The great and only end of these speculations," he tells
the reader of the Spectator, "is to banish vice and ignorance out of the territories of Great
Britain."

With solemn reproof and delicate raillery, Addison urged women to lay aside coarseness and
folly, and preached against the licentiousness, swearing, gambling, duelling, and drunkenness
of the men. He attacked with both argument and ridicule the idea so prevalent since the Restoration,
that vice was necessarily associated with pleasure and elegance, virtue with Puritanism and
vulgarity. To teach people to be witty without being indecent, gay without being vicious, such
was the object of Addison. As M. Taine says, he made morality fashionable. To do this he exposed
the folly and ugliness of vice. But he did more. He held up to the public view characters who
exemplified his teachings, and were calculated to attract imitation. In the creation and delineation
of these characters he unconsciously began the English novel.

We should look in vain in the pages of Fielding, of Scott, or of George Eliot, for a more perfect
sketch of character than that of Sir Roger de Coverley. And the minor personages are little
less delicately and naturally drawn. There is the Bachelor of the Inner-Temple, "an excellent
critick," to whom "the time of the play is his hour of business"; Sir Andrew Freeport, the
typical merchant; Captain Sentry, "a gentleman of great courage, good understanding, but invincible
modesty"; Will Honeycomb, "an honest, worthy man where women are not concerned"; the clergyman,
who has ceased to have "interests in this world, as one who is hastening to the object of all
his wishes, and conceives hope from his decays and infirmities." "These are my ordinary companions,"
says the Spectator, whom we soon learn to know very well too.

Addison's knowledge of human nature, and his skill in delineating it in single touches, place
him in the front rank of writers of fiction, notwithstanding the limit of his contributions
to this department of literature. In a few words we are made to see and know the Quaker who
reproves the insolent captain on the stage-coach: "Thy mirth, friend, savoureth of folly; thou
art a person of a light mind; thy drum is a type of thee, it soundeth because it is empty."
There is nothing wanting to the reader's perfect acquaintance with Will Wimble, the poor relation.
All who know Worcestershire, says the Spectator, "are very well acquainted with the parts and
merits of Sir Roger." His fame has spread from Worcestershire throughout the English-speaking
world, where he has been loved and admired for more than a hundred and fifty years. Sir Roger
de Coverley is not to be described by any pen but that of Addison. He exhibits, joined to a
perfect simplicity, the qualities of a just, honest, useful man, and delightful companion.
Our acquaintance with him is a personal one. We know how he appears at his country-house, surrounded
by admiring tenants and servants, and how he occupies himself in London, and whom he meets
there. We know his ancestry, the extent and management of his estate, his long standing love
affair with the beautiful widow, all his thoughts, opinions, and surroundings. All who read
about Sir Roger remember him with affection. Addison dwelt with tenderness on every detail
regarding him, and finally described Sir Roger's death to prevent any less reverential pen
from trifling with his hero.

Previous to the publication of the papers of the Spectator relating to Sir Roger de Coverley,
there had been no attempt at what is a necessary constituent of the modern novel--the study
of character. There had been the romance and the allegory. There had been the short love story.
But with Addison, nature becomes the subject of fiction, and the novel is begun.

In a review of the remarkable life of Daniel Defoe, he appears to us under the varied aspects
of a tradesman, a pamphleteer, a politician, a novelist, and, through it all, a reformer. It
is in his character as a novelist that he is now known, and that he is to be considered here.
But there are few among the millions to whom "Robinson Crusoe" has brought pleasure, who know
that the composition of that work was only one event in a long life of ceaseless labor, political
and literary, and that its author's fame among his contemporaries was assured independently
of it. Defoe's career was so full that both his chief biographers[155] have found three large
volumes to be necessary to do it justice. And yet it was not until near the end of that busy
life, when the author was fifty-eight years old, feeling the approach of age and infirmity,
and looking about for means to provide for a large family, that he added the writing of novels
to his multifarious occupations.

There is probably no writer with whose works his life and personality are more intimately connected.
It is impossible to consider the one separate from the other. Defoe began to write novels as
a tradesman, as a literary hack, and as a reformer. Being dependent on his pen for his bread,
he wrote what was likely to bring in the most immediate return. He calculated exactly the value
and quality of his wares. He gave to his fictions the same moral object which inspired his
own life. His novels followed naturally on his other labors, and partook of their character.
It was his custom, on the death of any celebrated person, to write his life immediately, and
to send it to the world while public interest was still fresh. But being often unable to obtain
complete or authentic information concerning the subject of his biography, he supplemented
facts and rumors by plausible inventions. Fiction entered into his biographies, just as biography
afterward entered into his novels. But in writing the lives of real individuals Defoe recognized
the necessity of impressing his reader with a sense of the truth and exactitude of the narrative.
This effect he attained by the use of a literary faculty which he possessed in a degree unequalled
by any other writer--that of circumstantial invention. By the multiplication of small, unimportant
details, each one of which is carefully dwelt upon, and by the insertion of uninteresting personal
incidents and moral reflections, seeming true from their very dulness, he gave to his work
a remarkable verisimilitude. He did not even issue the book under his own name, but invented
an authorship which would attract attention and credibility. Thus the "History of Charles XII"
was announced on the title-page as "written by a Scot's gentleman in the Swedish service";
and the "Life of Count Patkul" was "written by a Lutheran minister who assisted him in his
last home, and faithfully translated out of a High Dutch manuscript."[156] The same characteristics
appear in all Defoe's works. He invents freely, giving the most elaborate details to support
his assertions, and attains to an extraordinary degree the art of "lying like truth." In the
"Journal of the Plague Year," Defoe assumed with his accustomed ease and skill the character
of a plain, blunt London shopkeeper. He described with such apparent accuracy the observations
of a man who had lived in the scene of that terrible calamity, giving curious incidents, anecdotes,
statistics, after so methodical a manner, that it was long before any doubts were cast on the
authenticity of the journal. It was a work of imagination, but so matter-of-fact, that it is
difficult to believe the author had any imagination, and that he had not actually witnessed
every occurrence he so calmly related. It is the same with the "Memoirs of a Cavalier." The
civil wars are described by a young officer who took part in them, who gives a detailed account
of his own opinions, his wardrobe, his horse, his lodgings. Lord Chatham quoted these memoirs
as the true account of an eye-witness. From writing the life of a well known individual, Defoe
had advanced to writing the life of a fictitious person placed amidst historical scenes. His
next step was to write the life of a fictitious person amidst fictitious scenes.[157]

The "Journal of the Plague Year" had been issued to satisfy a popular interest excited by the
appearance of the plague in France and the consequent fear of it in England. A similar public
demand occasioned the composition of "Robinson Crusoe." A sailor named Alexander Selkirk had
been "marooned" on the uninhabited island of Juan Fernandez, and after living there alone for
more than four years, had been taken off by the same captain who had abandoned him. The interest
taken in England in the narrative of this event revealed to Defoe's acute mind a great literary
opportunity. But if he was indebted to the adventure of Selkirk for the fundamental idea of
his novel, he was not the less original. Never has a greater individuality been given to a
fictitious character, or a more vivid impression of life and reality to the circumstances surrounding
him. The combination of ingenuity and simplicity which distinguishes the work, has, for a century
and a half, had a peculiar fascination for children, and has awakened the wonder and admiration
of men. There are three works of English fiction of imperishable interest, all of which have
attained in a high degree the quality of reality, and have charmed alike all classes and ages.
In the allegory of "The Pilgrim's Progress," the sense of reality was produced by the intense
realization of the subject by the author, unassisted by any literary device. In "Gulliver's
Travels" the effect was attained by a skilful observation of exact proportions, added to a
circumstantial and personal method of narration, which Swift probably owed in some measure
to Defoe. If the reader can accept the possible existence of pigmies and giants, his credulity
is put to no further strain. Defoe had no difficulty of the supernatural to overcome. He had
a power almost as great as that of Bunyan of identifying himself with his hero; and he surpassed
Swift in the power of circumstantial invention.

The story of "Robinson Crusoe" is too intimately known to require comment. His over-mastering
desire to go to sea, his being cast up by the breakers on the island, his endless labors, and
the resolute determination which overcame them, his dangers, fears, and the consolation of
religion, the foot-print on the sand, the companionship with Friday, and the final release,
are recollections of our childhood too familiar to be dwelt upon. But in this very familiarity
with Robinson himself, in the brightness and endurance of our idea of him, in our acquaintance
with the inmost workings of his mind and heart, is contained the evidence that Defoe not only
wrote a novel of adventure, as he had intended, but that he wrote also a novel of character.

If the author of "Robinson Crusoe" could realize so thoroughly the difficulties and expedients
of a man living on a desert island, he could deal yet more easily with the adventures and shifts
of thieves and abandoned women which formed the subject of his other tales. In these minor
works, now little known, Defoe displayed equal talents, but did not attain equal results. The
enduring interest which must ever attach to the central idea of "Robinson Crusoe" the complete
isolation of the man--gave that work a very exceptional claim to the attention of posterity.
But it had other merits, which are not apparent in the same perfection in Defoe's lesser novels.
Its design was single and concentrated, its chief character natural and strongly marked, its
plot coherent and complete. Moll Flanders and Colonel Jack are indeed well-drawn and real persons,
and the design of the works which bear their names is clear, but in both cases the plot is
merely a series of independent adventures, and the characters themselves could not, from their
nature, long attract the attention of readers. "Colonel Jack," "Captain Singleton," "Moll Flanders,"
and "Roxana," have been surpassed, and are neglected. "Robinson Crusoe" is, of its kind, perfect,
and therefore enduring.

But the works of Defoe have a historical, almost equal to their literary, interest. Whoever
would attain a correct idea of the condition of the lower classes in the earlier part of the
eighteenth century, should consult "Moll Flanders" and "Colonel Jack," as much as the "Newgate
Calendar," and histories of crime and labor. What the author has described, he had seen.

Defoe was throughout his life a reformer; a large proportion of the many pamphlets and occasional
writings which fell from his pen have for their object the reformation or exposure of some
abuse. Yet a large number of his fictitious characters are thieves and harlots. The criminal
classes occupied the public mind in the first half of the eighteenth century to a remarkable
degree, and Defoe was not mistaken in thinking that novels concerning those classes would interest
and sell. He knew that the public taste was low, and his business was to cater to public taste.
He said, in "More Reformation":[158]

      Let this describe the nation's character.
      One man reads Milton, forty Rochester;
      The cause is plain, the temper of the time.
      One wrote the lewd, the other the sublime.

To satisfy the forty who read Rochester, Defoe described the lives and occupations of pirates,
pickpockets, highwaymen, and women of abandoned character. The title-pages of some of these
novels cannot with decency be quoted, and the novels themselves are filled with criminal and
licentious scenes. But the reforming inclination of Defoe himself, and that which we find in
the general literature of the time, induced him to turn these scenes into a moral account.
Moll Flanders is a low, cunning, thoroughly bad woman, and her life is placed quite bare before
the reader. Yet Defoe asserts that the book is designed to teach a good lesson.[159] "There
is not a superlative villain brought upon the stage, but either he is brought to an unhappy
end, or brought to be a penitent. There is not an ill thing mentioned, but it is condemned
even in the relation; nor a virtuous, just thing, but it carries its praise along with it.
* * * Upon this foundation the book is recommended to the reader, as a work from every part
of which something may be learned, and some just and religious inference is drawn." Defoe,
thoroughly a man of his time, thought he could put the coarsest and most vicious matter before
his reader, and reasonably expect him to profit by the moral, without being hurt by contact
with the vice. "All possible care," he says, "has been taken to give no lewd ideas, no immodest
turns in the dressing up of this story. * * * To this purpose some of the vicious part of her
life, which could not be modestly told, is quite left out, and several other parts very much
shortened. What is left, 'tis hoped will not offend the chastest reader, or the modestest hearer."
To any one acquainted with "Moll Flanders" this seems a strange statement. It exhibits the
standard of the age. Mrs. Behn said almost the same thing about her novels and plays. To make
up for the low, vicious life unrolled before us, it is not enough that Moll at last "grew rich,
lived honest, and died penitent."

The aim of "Roxana, or the Fortunate Mistress," like that of "Moll Flanders," is to describe
the gradual corruption of a woman, who is influenced by some conscientious scruples and misgivings,
but the heroine is placed in a higher station of life. We have a curious commentary on the
times in comparing the body of the work with the preface. "Roxana" is among the coarsest records
of vice in English fiction. But yet it is to impart moral instruction. "In the manner she has
told the story it is evident she does not insist upon her justification in any part of it;
much less does she recommend her conduct, or, indeed, any part of it, except her repentance,
to our imitation. On the contrary, she makes frequent excursions, in a just censuring and condemning
her own practice. How often does she reproach herself in the most passionate manner, and guide
us to make just reflections in the like cases?" The modern reader is astonished to find "that
all imaginable care has been taken to keep clear of indecencies and immodest expressions; and,
it is hoped, you will find nothing to prompt a vicious mind, but everywhere much to discourage
and expose it."

Defoe is much more successful in teaching a moral lesson in "Colonel Jack." The aim of this
novel is to describe the course of a street-boy who takes to thieving before he knows that
it is not a legitimate business, and who being possessed naturally of a good character is brought
to repentance and reform when subjected to better influences. Defoe's preface has great significance
when we consider the deplorable condition of the lower classes and no better idea can be gained
of the usual fate of the children of the poor than is afforded by this novel.

    Here is room for just and copious observations on the blessings and
    advantages of a sober and well-governed education, and the ruin of
    so many thousands of all ranks in this Nation for want of it; here
    also we may see how much public schools and charities might be
    improved, to prevent the destruction of so many unhappy children,
    as, in this town, are every year bred up for the executioner.

    The miserable condition of multitudes of youth, many of whose
    natural tempers are docible, and would lead them to learn the best
    things, rather than the worst, is truly deplorable, and is
    abundantly seen in the history of this man's childhood; where,
    though circumstances formed him by necessity to be a thief,
    surprising rectitude of principles remained with him, and made him
    early abhor the worst part of his trade, and at length to forsake
    the whole of it. Had he come into the world with the advantage of a
    virtuous education, and been instructed how to improve the generous
    principles he had in him, what a figure might he not have made,
    either as a man or a Christian.

The promise of the preface is fulfilled. The whole work is a protest against the neglect of
the education and training of the youth of the lower classes; and the life of Colonel Jack
would be apt to have a good effect on youthful readers of the time. In Chapter X, when Jack
has risen by his industry and humanity from being a slave on a Virginia plantation to the rank
of an overseer, and finally to that of an independent planter, he makes a long digression to
rejoice in his change of condition and character:

    It was an inexpressible joy to me, that I was now like to be not
    only a man, but an honest man; and it yielded me a greater
    pleasure, that I was ransomed from being a vagabond, a thief, and a
    criminal, as I had been from a child, than that I was delivered
    from slavery, and the wretched state of a Virginia sold servant; I
    had notion enough in my mind of the hardship of the servant or
    slave, because I had felt it, and worked through it; I remembered
    it as a state of labour and servitude, hardship and suffering. But
    the other shocked my very nature, chilled my blood, and turned the
    very soul within me; the thought of it was like reflections upon
    hell and the damned spirits; it struck me with horror, it was
    odious and frightful to look back on, and it gave me a kind of fit,
    a convulsion or nervous disorder, that was very uneasy to me.

These reflections remind us of the self-communings of Bunyan in "Grace Abounding in the Chief
of Sinners." They express the feelings of remorse and the longings for a better state arising
in the mind of a rough but conscientious man. They are the promptings of a strong moral nature,
and illustrate those national qualities which brought about the reforms which distinguish the
latter half of the eighteenth century. Colonel Jack took advantage of every opportunity for
improvement. When a vagabond in Scotland, he learned with infinite pains to read and write.
When a planter in Virginia, he took for his schoolmaster a transported felon, who knew Latin.
This spirit of self-advancement by patient labor, by invincible resolution, is the spirit of
Defoe's writings; it is the English characteristic which has raised the nation to all its prosperity
and greatness.

When "Robinson Crusoe" had attained celebrity, Defoe claimed that it was an allegory of his
own life. A parallel might easily be drawn between the isolation of the solitary sailor on
his island, and that of the persecuted author in the heart of a great city. All the world,
and particularly his literary brethren, had been against Defoe. Pope had put him into the "Dunciad,"
Swift had spoken of him as "the fellow who was pilloried, I forget his name," He had known
oppression and poverty, the pillory and the prison. And such is the moral of Defoe's own life.

Mrs. Heywood had written a number of stories[161] resembling, in the licentiousness of their
character and the flimsiness of their construction, the novels of Mrs. Behn. Toward the end
of her life she wrote "Miss Betsey Thoughtless," which is believed to have suggested to Miss
Burney some of the incidents in "Evelina." This novel was exceedingly popular, and had some
merit, considering the period of its composition. It is among the earliest specimens of a domestic
novel; the plot has interest, and the characters are life-like. It illustrates, if any illustration
were needed, the prevailing absence of any elevated view, either of love, or of the relations
between men and women. The book is made up of easy seductions and licentious talk, and represents
its youthful characters as very familiar with dissolute scenes and thoughts.

[Footnote 151: "Julius Cæsar," Act. I, sc. 2. Quoted in Scott's "Life of Swift." For Swift,
see also "Life" by Sheridan, by Roscoe, and by Forster.]

[Footnote 152: "Life of Swift."]

[Footnote 153: Sir W. Scott. "Life of Swift."]

[Footnote 154: See "Life of Swift," by Scott.]

[Footnote 155: Wilson "Life of Defoe." Lee, "Life of Defoe."]

[Footnote 156: See "Daniel Defoe," by William Minto, p. 135. American edition.]

[Footnote 157: William Minto, "Life of Defoe," p. 134:--"From writing biographies with real
names attached to them, it was but a short step to writing biographies with fictitious names."]

[Footnote 158: "Memoir of Defoe," William Hazlitt, p. 30.]

[Footnote 159: See the preface to "Moll Flanders."]

[Footnote 160: Preface to the "Serious Reflections of Robinson Crusoe."]

[Footnote 161: "Love in Excess," "The British Recluse," "The Injured Husband," "Jenny and Jemmy
Bessamy," "The Fortunate Foundling."]

III.

Samuel Richardson might have stood for Hogarth's "Industrious Apprentice." When a printer's
boy, young Samuel stole from his hours of rest and relaxation the time to improve his mind.
He was careful not to tire himself by sitting up too late at night over his books, and purchased
his own candles, so that his master, who called him the "pillar of his house," might suffer
no injury from his servant's improvement.[162] Thus Richardson persevered in the path of virtue,
until, like the "Industrious Apprentice," himself, he married his master's daughter, succeeded
to his business, and lived happy and respected, surrounded by all the blessings which should
fall to the lot of the truly good.

"I was not fond of play, as other boys," says the author of "Pamela"; "my school-fellows used
to call me Serious and Gravity; and five of them particularly, delighted to single me out,
either for a walk, or at their fathers' houses, or at mine, to tell them stories, as they phrased
it. Some I told them from my reading, as true; others from my head, as mere invention; of which
they would be most fond. * * * All my stories carried with them, I am bold to say, an useful
moral."[163] In such a manner, and with such an intention, Richardson began his career as a
novelist.

The life of the stout, vain little printer was already well advanced, his fortune was assured,
and he was surrounded by a group of affectionate relatives and admiring female friends, when
he was asked by a publisher to write "a little book of familiar letters on the useful concerns
in common life." While thinking over this proposal, be recollected a story once told him of
a young servant-girl, whose honor was long attempted by a dissolute master, and who, by her
resolute chastity, finally conquered his vicious intentions, and was rewarded by honorable
marriage with her thwarted seducer. And then it occurred to Richardson, that this story, "if
written in an easy and natural manner, suitable to the simplicity of it, might possibly introduce
a new species of writing, that might possibly turn young people into a course of reading different
from the pomp and parade of romance writing, and, dismissing the improbable and marvellous,
with which novels generally abound, might tend to promote the cause of religion and virtue."
Such was the origin of a novel destined to make a new era in English fiction. It is evident
that Richardson placed before himself two aims: to promote the cause of religion and virtue,
and to introduce a new species of writing, and in both he succeeded.

The name, "Pamela, or Virtue Rewarded," sounds like a tract, and "Pamela" is, indeed, a very
long tract. The contrast is curious between the moral object of the work and its contents.
In the preface we are told that "Pamela" is to inculcate religion and morality in an easy and
agreeable manner; it is to make vice odious, to make virtue truly lovely, and to give practical
examples, "worthy to be followed, in the most critical cases, by the modest virgin, the chaste
bride, and the obliging wife." Moreover, all this is to be done, "without raising a single
idea throughout the whole, that shall shock the exactest purity." Yet, "Pamela" contains not
a few scenes likely to inflame the imagination, and its subject, kept continually before the
reader's mind, is the licentious pursuit of a young girl. This story would not now do for a
tract. But it answered the purpose very well in the eighteenth century. Richardson had no fear
his book would give the youthful reader any new knowledge of evil, or that the long account
of Pamela's attempted seduction would shock the "exactest purity" of his time. He simply described
the dangers to which every attractive young woman was more or less subject by the prevailing
looseness of morals, while, by the pathetic and resolute resistance of Pamela's chastity, he
undoubtedly enlisted the sympathies of his reader on the side of virtue. The perusal of the
book was recommended by Dr. Sherlock from the pulpit. One critic declared that it would do
more good than twenty volumes of sermons; another, that if all other books were to be burnt,
"Pamela" and the Bible should be preserved. A gentleman said that he would give it to his son
as soon as he could read, that he might have an early impression of virtue.[164]

The moral of "Pamela" was virtue rewarded. That of "Clarissa," Richardson's second novel, was
virtue triumphant, even in disgrace and ruin. The heroine, to escape the tyranny of her parents
who wished to force her into a marriage she abhors, throws herself on the protection of a lover,
the famous Lovelace, who, failing to seduce her by any other means, lures her into a brothel,
and there violates her person while she is rendered insensible by opiates. Lovelace offers
to make reparation for his crime by marriage, but in refusing this offer, and in dying of a
broken heart, Clarissa carries out the moral of the story.

Richardson was blamed for making the libertine hero, Lovelace, more attractive than was consistent
with moral effect. And to remedy this mistake, he undertook in "Sir Charles Grandison," his
last novel, to draw the portrait of a man of true honor; "acting uniformly well through a variety
of trying scenes, because all his actions are regulated by one steady principle: a man of religion
and virtue; of liveliness and spirit; accomplished and agreeable; happy in himself, and a blessing
to others." Sir Charles then is not a man, but a model. "Pamela" and "Clarissa" remained virtuous
through temptation and trial. But Grandison is a good man because he has no inducement to be
otherwise. He can afford to be generous, because he is rich; he can afford to decline a duel,
his reputation for skill in swordsmanship is so well established that he runs no danger of
being called a coward; he is free from licentiousness, because his passions are under perfect
control. The name of Sir Charles Grandison has passed into a proverb, and its mention calls
up to the mind a man of the most dignified deportment, of the most delicate consideration for
women, and of the most elaborate manners. But it must be remembered that in Sir Charles, our
author drew the portrait of what a gentleman should be, and not of what a gentleman was. Even
the most punctilious men of the time did not, like Grandison, hesitate to visit a sick person,
because it would involve travelling on Sunday; nor did they, as he, refuse to have their horses'
tails docked, because nature had humanely given those tails as a protection against flies.
The Grandisonian manners are not to be taken as a picture of contemporary fashion. Richardson
was unacquainted with aristocratic habits, and his high-flown love scenes were purely ideal.
When he goes into high life, said Chesterfield, "he mistakes the modes." Such was the state
of things which the example of Sir Charles Grandison was intended to remedy.

The moral design is an important element in Richardson's novels, but the extraordinary popularity
of these works was owing to other causes. Richardson had known how to move his reader's heart,
and how to give to his characters a deep personal interest. He had attempted to introduce "a
new species of writing," and public enthusiasm testified to his success. Colly Cibber read
"Clarissa" before its publication, and was wrought up into a high state of excitement by the
story. "What a piteous, d----d, disgraceful pickle you have placed her in!" he wrote to Richardson.
"For God's sake, send me the sequel, or--I don't know what to say! * * * My girls are all on
fire and fright to know what can possibly have become of her." And when he heard that Clarissa
was to have a miserable end, he wrote the author: "God d----n him, if she should."[165] Mrs.
Pilkington was not less distressed: "Spare her virgin purity, dear sir, spare it! Consider
if this wounds both Mr. Cibber and me (who neither of us set up for immaculate chastity), what
must it do with those who possess that inestimable treasure?"[166] Miss Fielding, the sister
of the novelist of that name, thus described, in a letter to its author, her feelings on reading
"Clarissa": "When I read of her, I am all sensation; my heart glows. I am overwhelmed; my only
vent is tears." One Thomas Turner, who kept a village shop in Sussex, thus recorded in his
diary the impression produced upon him by the death of Clarissa: "Oh, may the Supreme Being
give me grace to lead my life in such a manner as my exit may in some measure be like that
divine creature's."[167] Johnson was an enthusiastic admirer of Richardson. Dr. Young looked
upon him as an "instrument of Providence." Ladies at Ranelagh held up "Pamela," to show that
they had the famous book.[168] Nor was this interest confined to the last century. Macaulay
"acted the whole scene," adds Thackeray; "he paced up and down the Athenæum library; I dare
say he could have spoken pages of the book."[169] But admiration of Richardson was still greater
among foreigners. How did he appeal to natures so different as the worldly Lord Chesterfield,
the country shopkeeper, and the impassioned Diderot? Richardson was the first novelist to stir
the heart and to move the passions, and his power was the more striking that it was new. His
study of human nature had begun early in life. "I was not more than thirteen," he says, "when
three young women, unknown to each other, having an high opinion of my taciturnity, revealed
to me their love secrets, in order to induce me to give them copies to write after, or correct,
for answers to their lovers' letters. * * * I have been directed to chide, and even repulse,
when an offence was either taken or given, at the very time when the heart of the chider or
repulser was open before me, overflowing with esteem and affection; and the fair repulser,
dreading to be taken at her word, directed this word, or that expression, to be softened or
changed. One, highly gratified with her lover's fervor and vows of everlasting love, has said,
when I have asked her direction, I cannot tell you what to write; but (her heart on her lips)
you cannot write too kindly."[171] With such an apprenticeship, Richardson had come to possess
a very delicate perception of character, and especially of female character. There was a certain
effeminacy in his own nature which made him understand women better than men. His best creations
are Pamela and Clarissa. Lovelace and Grandison are drawn from the outside; they are less real
and natural. But Richardson leads his reader into the inmost recesses of his heroines' hearts.
He is at home in describing the fears, the trials, and the final childlike rejoicings of Pamela.
He attains to a high tragic effect in the death of Clarissa, a scene which Sir James Mackintosh
ranked with Hume's description of the death of Mary Stuart. In this power to touch the heart
and to move the passions of his reader lay the charm of Richardson's writing. But to paint
perfection, rather than to study nature, was his object in "Sir Charles Grandison," and therefore
that novel was less powerful in the author's day, and is less interesting in ours than "Pamela"
and "Clarissa." We no longer need the example of the pompous Sir Charles to dissuade us from
indecent language and drunkenness in a lady's drawing-room, and we can only laugh at the studied
propriety of his faultless intercourse with Miss Byron:

    He kissed my hand with fervor, dropped down on one knee; again
    kissed it--You have laid me, madam, under everlasting obligation;
    and will you permit me before I rise--loveliest of women, will you
    permit me to beg an early day?--

    He clasped me in his; arms with an ardor--that displeased me not on
    reflection. But at the time startled me. He then thanked me again
    on one knee. I held out the hand he had not in his, with intent to
    raise him; for I could not speak. He received it as a token of
    favor; kissed it with ardor; arose; again pressed my cheeks with
    his lips. I was too much surprised to repulse him with anger; but
    was he not too free? Am I a prude, my dear?

    Restrain, check me, madam, whenever I seem to trespass on your
    goodness. Yet how shall I forbear to wish you to hasten the day
    that shall make you wholly mine? You will the rather allow me to
    wish it, as you will then be more than ever your own mistress;
    though you have always been generously left to a discretion that
    never was more deservedly trusted to. Your will, madam, will ever
    comprehend mine.

The verisimilitude of Richardson's novels, which is made so striking by his feminine attention
to detail, may seem destroyed to modern readers by the apparent improbability of the narrative
itself. It appears strange that young girls like Pamela or Clarissa should be so entirely in
the power of their seducers, that incidents should be repeated with impunity which the existence
of a police force would seem to make impossible. But the reader whose sense of probability
is shocked by the unpunished and uninterrupted villanies of Mr. B. and of Lovelace, can find
evidence of the security with which such crimes could be committed by the rich and influential
in the Newgate calendar. The forcible detention in his own house, by Lord Baltimore, of a young
girl, his atrocious treatment of her, and his escape from punishment, are incidents in real
life not more remarkable than the fictions of the novelist.

Sir Walter Scott lamented, early in the present century, the neglect into which the works of
Richardson had fallen. That neglect has not since been diminished, for obvious reasons. "Surely,
sir," said Erskine to Johnson, "Richardson is very tedious." But the reader of today will agree
with Erskine in thinking that Richardson is tedious. We have so many good novels which do not
require the attention and labor exacted by him. We live so fast that we cannot spare the time
for so much sentiment. These novels, like the elaborate embroideries of the last century, belong
to a period when life was less full, and books less abundant. Samuel Richardson will take his
place among the great authors who are much admired and little read, whose works every educated
person should have heard of, but upon which very few would like to be examined.

With Richardson's novels English fiction took a long step forward; but it made a still greater
advance in the hands of Henry Fielding. The latter was peculiarly well fitted by his talents
and experience to carry the novel to a high position of importance and artistic merit. He united
a considerable dramatic, and a great narrative power with an exuberant wit and an extensive
knowledge of men. Allied to a noble family, but oppressed by poverty, Fielding mingled during
his life with all classes of society. The Hon. George Lyttleton was his friend and protector,
Lady Mary Wortley Montagu was his cousin. On the other hand, his poverty and improvidence constantly
kept him, as Lady Mary put it, "raking in the lowest rinks of vice and misery." Richardson,
who always denounced Fielding's works as "wretchedly low and dirty," said sneeringly: "his
brawls, his jars, his jails, his spunging-houses are all drawn from what he has seen and known."
But in this ungenerous sneer lay a substantial compliment. Fielding did describe what he had
seen and known, and the variety of his experience gave him a breadth and power in describing
human nature which the confined life of Richardson could not afford. The two novelists cannot
be fairly compared, nor should they be considered as rivals. They pursued different methods,
and aimed at opposite effects. Each has a high place in English literature, which the greatness
of the other cannot depress. Richardson is best able to make his reader weep, and Fielding
to make him laugh.

Fielding was a tall, handsome fellow, so full of life and spirits that "his happy disposition,"
to quote Lady Mary, "made him forget every evil when he was before a venison-pastry, or over
a flask of champagne." This rollicking, careless joyousness is the tone of his books. Whether
taken to a prison, an inn, or a lady's boudoir, whether watching the breaking of heads, the
blackening of eyes, or the making of love, the reader is always kept smiling.

Fielding is often censured by moralists for the coarseness of his novels. But had he not been
coarse he would not have been true. He described life as it was in the eighteenth century,
as he had seen it in the ups and downs of a checkered career. His characters were taken from
the higher ranks and the lower. He placed the house, the amusements, the habits of a country
gentleman before the reader with the faithfulness of a man who had hunted, feasted, and got
drunk with country-gentlemen. He described the miserable prisons of his time as he only could
who had mingled with their degraded inmates, and had exerted his power as a police magistrate
to break up the gangs of ruffians who infested the streets. Thus Fielding's novels have a high
historical, as well as a literary value. Mr. Lecky has testified to their importance in a reconstruction
of the past by placing "Amelia" among his authorities. Squire Allworthy, Squire Western, Tom
Jones, Parson Adams, are characters to be studied by whoever would understand social life in
the eighteenth century. The lovely Sophia, the modest Fanny, and above all Amelia, whom Thackeray
considered "the most charming character in English fiction," are portraits in the gallery of
history.[172]

As Fielding set out to describe truth and nature as he saw them, the reader must put away his
notions of refinement and delicacy. He must be prepared to be entertained by blows, licentious
assaults, a tub of hog's blood thrown by a clergyman, coarse practical jokes, foul talk, all
put before him without disguise or circumlocution. As he follows Parson Adams, Joseph, and
Fanny in their journey, he must always be ready for a fight. Here is a specimen:

    "The captain * * * drew forth his hanger as Adams approached him,
    and was levelling a blow at his head which would probably have
    silenced the preacher forever, had not Joseph in that instant
    lifted up a certain huge stone pot of the chamber with one hand,
    which six beaux could not have lifted with both, and discharged it,
    together with the contents, full in the captain's face. The
    uplifted hanger dropped from his hand, and he fell prostrate on the
    floor with a lumpish noise, and his half-pence rattled in his
    pocket: the red liquor which his veins contained, and the white
    liquor which the pot contained, ran in one stream down his face and
    his clothes. Nor had Adams quite escaped, some of the water having
    in its passage shed its honors on his head, and begun to trickle
    down the wrinkles, or rather furrows, of his cheeks; when one of
    the servants snatching a mop out of a pail of water, which had
    already done its duty in washing the house, pushed it in the
    parson's face; yet could he not bear him down; for the parson
    wresting the mop from the fellow with one hand, with the other
    brought his enemy as low as the earth."[173]

To obtain any adequate idea of the range of Fielding's pictures of human nature, the reader
must consult the novels themselves. Propriety forbids the insertion here of quotations which
could convey an impression of the happy dissoluteness of Tom Jones, the brutal coarseness of
Squire Western, or the scenes of unblushing license which pervade the novels of Henry Fielding.
But a sample of the witty, jovial tone which has made these novels so popular may be of interest
to readers who are not inclined to open "Tom Jones" itself. The following scene was occasioned
by the appearance of Molly Seagrim in church, in unaccustomed and ostentatious finery, and
is described in the Homeric style, which Fielding sometimes adopted with such humorous effect.

    As a vast herd of cows in a rich farmer's yard, if, while they are
    milked, they hear their calves at a distance, lamenting the robbery
    which is then committing, roar and bellow: so roared forth the
    Somersetshire mob an halloloo, made up of almost as many squalls,
    screams, and other different sounds, as there were persons, or
    indeed passions, among them. Some were inspired by rage, others
    alarmed by fear, and others had nothing in theirs heads but the
    love of fun; but chiefly Envy, the sister of Satan and his constant
    companion, rushed among the crowd and blew up the fury of the
    women; who no sooner came up to Molly than they pelted her with
    dirt and rubbish.

    Molly, having endeavored in vain to make a handsome retreat, faced
    about; and laying hold of ragged Bess, who advanced in the front
    of the enemy, she at one blow felled her to the ground. The whole
    army of the enemy (though near a hundred in number), seeing the
    fate of their general, gave back many paces, and retired beyond a
    new dug grave; for the church-yard was the field of battle, where
    there was to be a funeral that very evening. Molly pursued her
    victory, and catching up a skull which lay on the side of the
    grave, discharged it with such fury, that having hit a tailor on
    the head, the two skulls sent equally forth a hollow sound at their
    meeting, and the tailor took presently measure of his length on the
    ground, where the skulls lay side by side, and it was doubtful
    which was the more valuable of the two. Molly, then taking a thigh
    bone in her hand, fell in among the flying ranks, and dealing her
    blows with great liberality on either side, overthrew the carcass
    of many a mighty hero and heroine. Recount, O muse, the names of
    those who fell on this fatal day. First Jemmy Tweedle felt on his
    hinder head the direful bone. Him the pleasant banks of sweetly
    winding Stour had nourished, where he first learnt the vocal art,
    with which, wandering up and down at wakes and fairs, he cheered
    the rural nymphs and swains, when upon the green they interweaved
    the sprightly dance; while he himself stood fiddling and jumping to
    his own music. How little now avails his fiddle! He thumps the
    verdant floor with his carcass. Next old Echepole, the sow-gelder,
    received a blow in his forehead from our Amazonian heroine, and
    immediately fell to the ground. He was a swinging fat fellow, and
    fell with almost as much noise as a house. His tobacco-box dropt at
    the same time from his pocket, which Molly took up as lawful
    spoils. Then Kate of the Mill tumbled unfortunately over a
    tombstone, which catching hold of her ungartered stocking, inverted
    the order of nature, and gave her heels the superiority to her
    head. Betty Pippin, with young Roger her lover, fell both to the
    ground; where, O Perverse Fate! she salutes the earth, and he the
    sky.[174]

Fielding had shown more than any predecessor the possibilities of fiction in the study of character
and the illustration of manners, and to the art of the narrator, he had added that of the dramatist.
The falling of the rug in Molly Seagrim's bedroom[175] is one of the happiest incidents ever
devised, and no doubt suggested to Sheridan the falling of the screen in the "School for Scandal."
But the chief distinction of Fielding lies in his having carried the novel to a high point
as a work of art. But to give this title to any individual is a manifest injustice. The novel
was developed, not created; and in that development many minds took part. Short love stories
had been made familiar in England by the Italian writers. Such, also, had been produced by
Mrs. Behn, Mrs. Manley, and Mrs. Heywood. Defoe had written novels of adventure, in one of
which, at least, is found the combination of a character well drawn and a plot well executed.
In the number of his characters and the complication of his plot, Richardson had surpassed
Defoe. It is the merit of Fielding to have combined in a far greater degree than those who
had gone before the characteristic qualities of the novel. In others we see the promise, in
him the fulfilment.

And this was in no respect the result of an accident. Fielding looked upon his first work as
a new attempt in English literature. "Joseph Andrews" was first intended to be merely a satire
on "Pamela." But study and reflection on the nature of his work determined Fielding to produce
a "prose epic." "The epic as well as the drama," he said in the preface, "is divided into tragedy
and comedy." Now, he continued, "when any kind of writing contains all the other parts (of
the epic), such as fable, action, characters, sentiments, and diction, and is deficient in
metre only; it seems, I think, reasonable to refer it to the epic." Such, too, was the opinion
of the Chevalier Bunsen. "The romance of modern times," he says in his preface to "Soll und
Haben" * * * "represents the latest stadium of the epic. Every romance is intended, or ought
to be, a new Iliad or Odyssey; in other words, a poetic representation of a course of events
consistent with the highest laws of moral government, whether it delineate the general history
of a people, or narrate the fortunes of a chosen hero. * * * The excellence of a romance, like
that of an epic or a drama, lies in the apprehension and truthful exhibition of the course
of human things."[177] Lord Byron expressed his opinion that Fielding had realized this view
of the nature of the novel by calling him the prose Homer of human nature.

Fielding's novels are now considered unfit for general perusal. In considering the coarseness
and immorality of a writer, the intention and the result must be separated. That Fielding's
works are coarse, and that they contain scenes and characters of a dissolute nature, is neither
to be denied nor to be regretted. If they were more pure, they would be less valuable from
a historical point of view; less true to nature, and therefore less artistic. That the author's
intention was far from the production of works with an evil tendency, is evident. He was careful
to say in the preface to "Joseph Andrews": "It may be objected to me that I have against my
own rules introduced vices, and of a very black kind, in this work. To which I shall answer
first, that it is very difficult to pursue a series of human actions, and keep clear from them.
Secondly, that the vices to be found here are rather the accidental consequences of some human
frailty or foible, than causes habitually existing in the mind. Thirdly, that they are never
set forth as the objects of ridicule, but detestation. Fourthly, that they are never the principal
figure at that time on the scene; and lastly, they never produce the intended evil." And again,
still more strongly, Fielding claims the merit of purity and moral effect for "Tom Jones,"
"I hope my reader will be convinced, at his very entrance on this work, that he will find,
in the whole course of it, nothing prejudicial to the cause of religion and virtue; nothing
inconsistent with the strictest rules of decency, nor which can offend the chastest eye in
the perusal. On the contrary, I declare, that to recommend goodness and innocence hath been
my sincere endeavor in this history. * * * Besides displaying that beauty of virtue which may
attract the admiration of mankind, I have attempted to engage a stronger motive to human action
in her favor, by convincing men that their true interest directs them to a pursuit of her.
For this purpose I have shown, that no acquisitions of guilt can compensate the loss of that
solid inward comfort of mind, which is the sure companion of innocence and virtue; nor can
in the least balance the evil of that horror and anxiety which, in their room, guilt introduced
into our bosoms."

Thus, it is evident, that Fielding had no desire to write what might be harmful. The contrast
between his promise and his fulfilment is simply an illustration of the standard of his time.
His novels are coarse to a degree which may nullify their merits in the eyes of some readers
of the present day, and may unfit them for the perusal of very young people. But this is simply
because the standard in such matters has changed, and not because the novels were purposely
made dissolute. Their coarseness was adapted to the lack of refinement in thought and speech
characteristic of that time. Fielding wished to "laugh mankind out of their follies and vices."
In his coarseness there is always an open, frank laughter. There is none of that veiled pruriency
which lurks underneath the more conventionally expressed, but really vicious sentiments that
are to be found in too many novels of our own day.

The novel was well defined in character and well established in popularity when Smollett entered
the field so well occupied by Richardson and Fielding. On this account his works have a less
important place in the history of fiction than those of his predecessors. While he added greatly
to the store of fictitious writing, he developed no new ideas concerning it. Fielding had announced
at the outset of his career as a novelist that he had taken Cervantes as a prototype, and the
influence of the great Spanish writer is plainly visible in "Joseph Andrews." But in the literary
workmanship of his two later novels, Fielding's entire originality is undeniable. Smollett,
however, is plainly an imitator of Le Sage. He did not aim at that artistic construction of
plot, which is Fielding's chief merit. The novel, in his hands, became rather a series of adventures,
linked together by their occurrence to the same individuals. "A novel," he said, "is a large,
diffused picture, comprehending the characters of life, disposed in different groups, and exhibited
in various attitudes, for the purposes of a uniform plan and general occurrence, to which every
individual figure is subservient. But this plan cannot be executed with propriety, probability,
or success, without a principal personage to attract the attention, unite the incidents, unwind
the clue of the labyrinth, and at last close the scene by virtue of his importance."[178] But
Smollett presents the "different groups" and "various attitudes" of his "diffused picture"
with a luxuriance of imagination, a fidelity to nature, and an exuberance of broad humor which
inspire interest even when they occasion disgust. If he added nothing new to the novel from
a purely literary point of view, his works have an exceptional historical value.

His life was well adapted to educate him as an observer and student of human nature. Of a good
Scotch family, but obliged by poverty to rely on his own efforts for a living, he mixed familiarly
with varied classes of men. As a surgeon in London, he came in contact with the middle and
lower ranks of the city, from which many of his best characters are taken. As surgeon's mate
on board a man-of-war, he obtained that acquaintance with a seafaring life which was afterward
turned to such excellent account.

Of Smollett's works, "Humphrey Clinker" is the most humorous, "Roderick Random" the simplest
and most natural, "Perigrine Pickle," the most elaborate and brilliant. The reader is conducted
from adventure to adventure with an unfailing interest, sustained by the distinctness of the
picture and the brightness of the coloring. The characters met with are natural and well studied.
Trunnion, Hatchway, Pipes, Lieutenant Bowling, and Jack Rattlin are all distinctly seamen,
and yet each has a marked individuality of his own. Matthew Bramble and Winifred Jenkins are
among the best-drawn and most entertaining of fictitious personages. Smollett's humor is usually
of the broadest and most elementary kind. It consists largely of hard blows, a-propos knockdowns,
and practical jokes. More than any novelist, he illustrates the coarseness of his time. His
pages are filled with cruelties and blackguardism. Many of his principal characters are dissolute
without enjoyment, and brutal without good nature. Modern taste is shocked by the succession
of repulsive scenes and degrading representations of vice which are often intended to amuse,
and always to entertain. But it is because life in the eighteenth century had so many repulsive
features, that the novels of the time often repel the modern reader, There is nothing strained
or uncommon in the experiences of Miss Williams while in prison:

    There I saw nothing but rage, anguish, and impiety; and heard
    nothing but groans, curses, and blasphemy. In the midst of this
    hellish crew, I was subjected in the tyranny of a barbarian, who
    imposed upon me tasks that I could not possibly perform, and then
    punished my incapacity with the utmost rigor and inhumanity. I was
    often whipped into a swoon, and lashed out of it, during which
    miserable intervals I was robbed by my fellow-prisoners of every
    thing about me, even to my cap, shoes, and stockings; I was not
    only destitute of necessaries, but even of food, so that my
    wretchedness was extreme. Not one of my acquaintance, to whom I
    imparted my situation, would grant me the least succor or regard,
    on pretence of my being committed for theft; and my landlord
    refused to part with some of my own clothes, which I sent for,
    because I was indebted to him for a week's lodging. Overwhelmed
    with calamity, I grew desperate, and resolved to put an end to my
    grievances and life together; for this purpose I got up in the
    middle of the night, when I thought everybody around me asleep, and
    fixing one end of my handkerchief to a large hook in the ceiling
    that supported the scales on which the hemp is weighed, I stood
    upon a chair, and making a noose on the other end, put my neck into
    it with an intention to hang myself; but before I could adjust the
    knot, I was surprised and prevented by two women who had been awake
    all the while, and suspected my design. In the morning my attempt
    was published among the prisoners, and punished with thirty
    stripes, the pain of which co-operating with my disappointment and
    disgrace, bereft me of my senses, and threw me into an ecstasy of
    madness, during which I tore the flesh from my bones with my teeth,
    and dashed my head against the pavement.[179]

While Smollett mingled such scenes of misery with coarse adventures and coarse humor, he is
yet always true to nature and always picturesque. He keeps the reader's attention even when
he offends his taste. He impaired the literary merit of "Perigrine Pickle," but at the same
time added to its dissolute character and its immediate popularity by the forced insertion
of the licentious "Memoirs of a Lady of Quality." Now a serious blemish, these memoirs formed
at the time an added attraction to the book. They were eagerly read as the authentic account
of Lady Vane, a notorious woman of rank, and were furnished to Smollett by herself, in the
hope, fully gratified, that her infamous career might be known to future generations.[180]

That the standard of public taste was rising, would appear from the fact that in the second
edition of "Perigrine Pickle," Smollett found it advisable to "reform the manners and correct
the expression" of the first; but when "he flatters himself that he has expunged every adventure,
phrase, and insinuation that could be construed by the most delicate reader into a trespass
upon the rules of decorum," he does not give a high idea of the standard of the "most delicate
reader." But Smollett has left an account of his own views regarding the moral effect of the
pictures of vice and degradation which his works contain, and that account is a striking statement
of contemporary feeling upon the subject:

    The same principle by which we rejoice at the remuneration of
    merit, will teach us to relish the disgrace and discomfiture of
    vice, which is always an example of extensive use and influence,
    because it leaves a deep impression of terror upon the minds of
    those who were not confirmed in the pursuit of morality and virtue,
    and, while the balance wavers, enables the right scale to
    preponderate. * * * The impulses of fear, which is the most violent
    and interesting of all the passions, remain longer than any other
    upon the memory; and for one that is allured to virtue by the
    contemplation of that peace and happiness which it bestows, an
    hundred are deterred from the practice of vice, by the infamy and
    punishment to which it is liable from the laws and regulations of
    mankind. Let me not, therefore, be condemned for having chosen my
    principal character from the purlieus of treachery and fraud, when
    I declare that my purpose is to set him up as a beacon for the
    benefit of the inexperienced and the unwary, who, from the perusal
    of these memoirs, may learn to avoid the manifold snares with which
    they are continually surrounded in the paths of life; while those
    who hesitate on the brink of iniquity may he terrified from
    plunging into that irremediable gulph, by surveying the deplorable
    fate of Ferdinand Count Fathom.[181]

This passage illustrates with remarkable fidelity the attitude, not only of Smollett, but of
the other novelists and the general public of the first half of the eighteenth century, toward
vice and crime. The consciousness of evil and the desire for reformation were prominent features
of the time. But to deter men from wrong-doing, fear was the only recognized agent. There was
absolutely no feeling of philanthropy. There was no effort to prevent crime through the education
or regulation of the lower classes; there was no attempt to reform the criminal when convicted.
The public fear of the criminal classes was expressed in the cruel and ineffective code which
punished almost every offense with death. The corruptions which pervaded the administration
of justice made it almost impossible to punish the wealthy and influential. When Smollett declared
that the miserable fate of Count Fathom would deter his reader from similar courses by a fear
of similar punishment, when Defoe urged the moral usefulness of "Moll Flanders" and "Roxana,"
the two novelists simply expressed the general feeling that the sight of a malefactor hanging
on the gallows was the most effective recommendation to virtue. In the same spirit in which
justice exposed the offender in the stocks to public view, the novelist described his careers
of vice ending in misery, and Hogarth conducted his Idle Apprentice from stage to stage till
Tyburn Hill is reached. The same moral end is always in view, but the lesson is illustrated
by the ugliness of vice, and not by the beauty of virtue. In our time we have reason to be
thankful for a criminal legislation tempered by mercy and philanthropy. We have attained, too,
a standard of taste and of humanity which has banished the degrading exhibitions of public
punishments, which has largely done away with coarseness and brutality, and has added much
to the happiness of life. In fiction, the writer who wishes to serve a moral purpose attains
his end by the more agreeable method of holding up examples of merit to be imitated, rather
than of vice to be shunned.

But when the great novelists of the eighteenth century were writing, the standard of taste
was extremely low. The author knew that he was keeping his reader in bad company, and was supplying
his mind with coarse ideas, but he believed that he might do this without offense. Defoe thought
that "Moll Flanders" would not "offend the chastest reader or the modestest hearer"; Richardson,
that the prolonged effort to seduce Pamela could be described "without raising a single idea
throughout the whole that shall shock the exactest purity"; Fielding, that there was nothing
in "Tom Jones" which "could offend the chastest eye in the perusal." Nor, as concerned their
own time, were they mistaken. They clearly understood the distinction between coarseness and
immorality. The young women who read "Tom Jones" with enthusiasm were not less moral than the
women who now avoid it, they were only less refined. They did not think vice less reprehensible,
but were more accustomed to the sight of it, and therefore less easily offended by its description.

While the novels of which we have been speaking were making their first appearance, there lived
in Kent a charming young lady who went by the name of "the celebrated Miss Talbot." She had
attained this distinction by her great cultivation. She had studied astronomy and geography,
was "mistress of French and Italian," and knew a little Latin. When she was only twenty years
of age, the Dean of Canterbury spoke of her with high admiration. Her acquaintance was eagerly
sought by accomplished young ladies, and by none more successfully than "the learned" Miss
Carter. Both of these girls read the novels of the day, and fortunately recorded some of their
opinions in the letters which passed between them.[182] "I want much to know," wrote Miss Talbot,
"whether you have yet condescended to read 'Joseph Andrews.'" "I must thank you," replied Miss
Carter, "for the perfectly agreeable entertainment I have met in reading 'Joseph Andrews.'
It contains such a surprising variety of nature, wit, morality, and good sense, as is scarcely
to be met with in any one composition, and there is such a spirit of benevolence through the
whole, as, I think renders it peculiarly charming," Some years later the Bishop of Gloucester
came to visit Miss Talbot's family, and read "Amelia," the young lady wrote, while he was nursing
his cold by the fireside. Miss Carter replied that "in favor of the bishop's cold, his reading
'Amelia' in silence may be tolerated, but I am somewhat scandalized that, since he did not
read it to you, you did not read it yourself." "The more I read 'Tom Jones,'" wrote Miss Talbot,
"the more I detest him, and admire Clarissa Harlowe,--yet there are in it things that must
touch and please every good heart, and probe to the quick many a bad one, and humor that it
is impossible not to laugh at." "I am sorry," replied Miss Carter, "to find you so outrageous
about poor Tom Jones; he is no doubt an imperfect, but not a detestable character, with all
that honesty, good-nature, and generosity." Miss Talbot, in a later letter, said that she had
once heard a lady piously say to her son that she wished with all her heart he was like Tom
Jones.[183] In 1747 "Clarissa" was read aloud at the palace of the Bishop of Oxford, Miss Talbot's
uncle. "As for us," she wrote, "we lived quite happy the whole time we were reading it, and
we made that time as long as we could, too, for we only read it en famille, at set hours, and
all the rest of the day we talked of it. One can scarcely persuade one's self that they are
not real characters and living people." Even "Roderick Random" made part of the young ladies'
reading. "It is a very strange and a very low book," commented the Bishop's celebrated niece,
"though not without some characters in it, and, I believe, some very just, though very wretched
descriptions."

[Footnote 162: Mrs. Barbauld's "Life of Richardson," vol. 1, p. 42. Scott's "Life of Richardson."]

[Footnote 163: Mrs. Barbauld's "Life of Richardson," vol. 1, p. 37.]

[Footnote 164: Edinburgh Review. Oct., 1804. Scott's "Life of Richardson," note.]

[Footnote 165: Richardson's correspondence, 1748.]

[Footnote 166: Richardson's correspondence. Forsyth's "Novels and Novelists," p. 251.]

[Footnote 167: See the interesting "Glimpses of Our Ancestors," by Charles Fleet, p. 33.]

[Footnote 168: Mrs. Barbauld's "Life of Richardson."]

[Footnote 169: W.M. Thackeray, "Nil Nisi Bonum", Cornhill Mag., No. 1.]

[Footnote 170: D'Israeli's "Curiosities of Literature," art. "Richardson."]

[Footnote 171: Mrs. Barbauld's "Life of Richardson," vol. I, p. 40. Scott's "Life of Richardson."]

[Footnote 172: The reader may find some curious examples of the fidelity with which Fielding
portrayed contemporary character and manners in comparing passages in "Tom Jones," with "Glimpses
of our Ancestors," by Charles Fleet, pp. 38, 39, et passim.]

[Footnote 173: "Joseph Andrews," book III, chap. 9.]

[Footnote 174: "Tom Jones," book iv, ch. 8.]

[Footnote 175: Samuel Rogers, "Table Talk," p. 227.]

[Footnote 176: Coleridge, "Table Talk," p. 339, vol. 2, London, 1835.]

[Footnote 177: Preface to "Debit and Credit"

THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY CONTINUED.
  I.--THE RELIGIOUS REVIVAL.
 II.--STERNE, JOHNSON, GOLDSMITH, AND OTHERS.
III.--MISS BURNEY, AND THE FEMALE NOVELISTS.
 IV.--THE ROMANTIC REVIVAL.

I.

We have observed in the earlier works of fiction of the eighteenth century, together with great
coarseness of thought and manners, the reflection of a strong moral and reforming tendency.
As early as the reign of William III, Parliament had requested the king to issue proclamations
to justices of the peace, instructing them to put in execution the neglected laws against open
licentiousness.[184] In 1698, Collier published his "Short View of the Immorality and Profaneness
of the English Stage," a powerful and effective protest against the depravity of the drama.
At about the same time had been formed the Societies for the Reformation of Manners, which
energetically attacked the more flagrant forms of crime. "England, bad as she is," wrote Defoe
in 1706, "is yet a reforming nation; and the work has made more progress from the court even
to the street, than, I believe, any nation in the world can parallel in such a time and in
such circumstances." Toward the middle of the century, these tendencies took effect in the
Methodist Revival, a movement destined to exert a profound influence on society. Accompanying
this revival, or resulting from it, were many important reforms. The corruption of political
life gradually diminished. A new patriotism and unselfishness began to appear in public men.
A spirit of philanthropy arose which corrected some of the worst social abuses. Under the leadership
of the noble John Howard, the prisons, so long the abandoned haunts of squalor, oppression,
and misery, were considerably redeemed from their shameful condition. Beau Nash marked the
progress of peaceful and law-abiding habits by formally forbidding the wearing of swords wherever
his fashionable authority was recognized. In the fiction of the latter half of the eighteenth
century is illustrated a gradual transition of morals and taste from the unbridled coarseness
of the century's earlier years to the comparative refinement of our own times.

There lived in Sussex about the time of the Methodist revival, a thriving shopkeeper named
Thomas Turner. He had received a good education, and in early life had been a schoolmaster.
His literary tastes were so pronounced and varied that in the space of six weeks he had read
Gray's "Poems," Stewart "On the Supreme Being," the "Whole Duty of Man," "Paradise Lost and
Regained," "Othello," the "Universal Magazine," Thomson's "Seasons," Young's "Night Thoughts,"
Tournefort's "Voyage to the Levant," and "Perigrine Pickle." This scholarly tradesman kept
a diary, in which he recorded his thoughts, his studies, and his amusements with a frankness
which deserves the thanks of posterity. Some passages of his diary, in their illustration of
the combination of licence, coarseness, and moral earnestness characteristic of the writer's
time may greatly assist us in appreciating the power and influence of the religious revival.[185]

"I went to the audit and came home drunk. But I think never to exceed the bounds of moderation
more. * * * "Sunday, 28th, went down to Jones', where we drank one bowl of punch and two muggs
of bumboo; and I came home again in liquor. Oh, with what horrors does it fill my heart, to
think I should be guilty of doing so, and on a Sunday, too! Let me once more endeavour, never,
no never, to be guilty of the same again. * * * I read part of the fourth volume of the Tatler;
the oftener I read it, the better I like it. I think I never found the vice of drinking so
well exploded in my life, as in one of the numbers." In January, 1751, "Mr. Elless (the schoolmaster),
Marchant, myself, and wife sat down to whist about seven o'clock, and played all night; very
pleasant, and I think I may say innocent mirth, there being no oaths nor imprecations sounding
from side to side, as is too often the case at cards." February 2, "we supped at Mr. Fuller's,
and spent the evening with a great deal of mirth, till between one and two. Tho, Fuller brought
my wife home on his back, I cannot say I came home sober, though I was far from being bad company.
I think we spent the evening with a great deal of pleasure." March 7th, a party met at Mr.
Joseph Fuller's, "drinking," records our diarist, "like horses, as the vulgar phrase is, and
singing, till many of us were very drunk, and then we went to dancing, and pulling of wigs,
caps, and hats; and thus we continued in this frantic manner, behaving more like mad people
than they that profess the name of Christians." Three days after, the same amusements are enjoyed
at the house of Mr. Porter, the clergyman of the parish, except "there was no swearing and
ill words, by reason of which Mr. Porter calls it innocent mirth, but I in opinion differ much
therefrom." Mr. Turner had no great reason to respect the opinion of clergymen on such matters.
Soon after, "Mr. ----, the curate of Laughton, came to the shop in the forenoon, and he having
bought some things of me (and I could wish he had paid for them), dined with me, and also staid
in the afternoon till he got in liquor, and being so complaisant as to keep him company, I
was quite drunk. How do I detest myself for being so foolish!" A little later, Mr, Turner attended
a vestry meeting, at which "we had several warm arguments, and several vollies of execrable
oaths oftentime redounded from almost all parts of the room.

"About 4 P.M. I walked down to Whyly. We played at bragg the first part of the even. After
ten we went to supper, on four broiled chicken, four boiled ducks, minced veal, cold roast
goose, chicken pastry, and ham. Our company, Mr. and Mrs. Porter, Mr. and Mrs. Coates, Mrs.
Atkins, Mrs. Hicks, Mr. Piper and wife, Joseph Fuller and wife, Tho. Fuller and wife, Dame
Durrant, myself and wife, and Mr. French's family. After supper our behaviour was far from
that of serious, harmless mirth; it was downright obstreperious, mixed with a great deal of
folly and stupidity. Our diversion was dancing or jumping about, without a violin or any musick,
singing of foolish healths, and drinking all the time as fast as it could be well poured down;
and the parson of the parish was one among the mixed multitude. If conscience dictates right
from wrong, as doubtless it sometimes does, mine is one that I may say is soon offended: for,
I must say, I am always very uneasy at such behavior, thinking it not like the behaviour of
the primitive Christians, which, I imagine, was most in conformity to our Saviour's gospel.

"Thursday, Feb, 25th. This morning, about six o'clock, just as my wife was got to bed, we was
awaked by Mrs. Porter, who pretended she wanted some cream of tartar; but as soon as my wife
got out of bed, she vowed she should come down. She found Mr. Porter (the clergyman), Mr. Fuller,
and his wife, with a lighted candle, and part of a bottle of port wine and a glass. The next
thing was to have me down stairs, which being apprised of, I fastened my door. Up stairs they
came, and threatened to break it open; so I ordered the boys to open it, when they poured into
my room; and as modesty forbid me to get out of bed, so I refrained; but their immodesty permitted
them to draw me out of bed, as the phrase is, topsy-turvey; but, however, at the intercession
of Mr. Porter, they permitted me to put on * * * my wife's petticoats; and in this manner they
made me dance, without shoes and stockings, until they had emptied a bottle of wine, and also
a bottle of my beer. * * * About three o'clock in the afternoon, they found their way to their
respective homes, beginning to be a little serious, and, in my opinion, ashamed of their stupid
enterprise and drunken perambulation. Now let any one call in reason to his assistance, and
reflect seriously on what I have before recited, and they will join me in thinking that the
precepts delivered from the pulpit on Sunday, though delivered with the greatest ardour, must
lose a great deal of there efficacy by such examples."

Such were the amusements and such the moral reflections of a country tradesman in the middle
of the last century, Fielding, Smollett, and the other novelists described the same kind of
life: the same succession of brawls, drunken sprees, cock-fights, boxing matches, and bull-baitings.
It would be difficult to imagine a state of society more ripe for a revival. Mr. Thomas Turner
had moral and religious aspirations, but these could not be satisfied by the clergyman of his
parish or the curate of Laughton, the companions of his debauches but not the sharers of his
remorse. When the clergy were sincere and moral, they were still too cold and commonplace to
seriously influence their flocks. The sermons of the time were at best, moral essays, teaching
little, as Mr. Lecky says, "that might not have been taught by disciples of Socrates and Confucius."
They might encourage honesty and temperance where those virtues already existed, but they had
no spell to arouse religious feelings, nor to reclaim the vicious. How great, then, must have
been the effect of the impassioned eloquence of a Whitefield, which could draw tears from thousands
of hardened colliers, upon such a society as that of Mr. Turner and his friends, accustomed
only to the discourses of their boon companion, the Rev. Mr. Porter. The prevailing licence
and the prevailing moral consciousness were elements especially adapted to the work of the
religious revivalist. The effect of the sermons of Berridge is thus described by an eye-witness[186]:

    I heard many cry out, especially children, whose agonies were
    amazing. One of the eldest, a girl of ten or twelve years old, was
    full in my view, in violent contortions of body, and weeping aloud,
    I think incessantly, during the whole service. * * * While poor
    sinners felt the sentence of death in their souls, what sounds of
    distress did I hear! Some shrieking, some roaring aloud. The most
    general was a loud breathing, like that of people half strangled
    and gasping for life. And indeed, almost all the cries were like
    those of human creatures dying in bitter anguish. Great numbers
    wept without any noise; others fell down as dead; some sinking in
    silence; some with extreme noise and violent agitation. I stood on
    the pew seat, as did a young man in an opposite pew--an
    able-bodied, fresh, healthy countryman. But in a moment, when he
    seemed to think of nothing less, down he dropped with a violence
    inconceivable. The adjoining pews seemed shook with his fall. I
    heard afterward the stamping of his feet, ready to break the boards
    as he lay in strong convulsions at the bottom of the pew. * * *
    Among the children who felt the arrows of the Almighty I saw a
    sturdy boy about eight years old, who roared above his fellows, and
    seemed, in his agony, in struggle with the strength of a grown man.
    His face was red as scarlet; and almost all on whom God laid his
    hand turned either red or almost black. * * * A stranger, well
    dressed, who stood facing me, fell backward to the wall; then
    forward on his knees, wringing his hands and roaring like a bull.
    His face at first turned quite red, then almost black. He rose and
    ran against the wall till Mr. Keeling and another held him. He
    screamed out "Oh! what shall I do? what shall I do? Oh, for one
    drop of the blood of Christ!"

These were violent remedies, but they were applied to a powerful disease. If the revivalists
did harm by the religious terrorism which they excited, they yet had a powerful and wide-spread
influence for good. They awakened religious feelings among the people, and diffused a new earnestness
among the clergy. A spirit of philanthropy was born with their teachings which has gone on
growing until it now extends a protecting arm even to brutes. The societies for the prevention
of cruelty to children and to animals are part of a great philanthropic movement which began
at the end of the eighteenth century, which has carried into practical, every-day life the
spirit of Christianity, and has given to the words mercy and charity, the signification of
real and existing virtues. Horses, dogs, even rats, are now more safe from wanton brutality
than great numbers of men and women in the eighteenth century. To any one who studies that
period, the stocks, the whipping post, the gibbet, cock fights, prize-fights, bull-baitings,
accounts of rapes, are simply the outward signs of an all-pervading cruelty. If he opens a
novel, he finds that the story turns on brutality in one form or other. It is not only in such
novels as those of Fielding and Smollett, which are intended to describe the lower classes
of society, and in which blackened eyes and broken heads are relished forms of wit, that the
modern reader is offended by the continual infliction of pain. Goldsmith gives Squire Thornhill
perfect impunity from the law and from public opinion in his crimes. Mackenzie does not think
of visiting any legal retribution on his "Man of the World." Godwin wrote "Caleb Williams"
to show with what impunity man preyed on man, how powerless the tenant and the dependent woman
lay before the violence or the intrigue of the rich. And it is not only that a crime should
be committed with perfect security which would now receive a severe sentence at the hands of
an ordinary judge and jury which surprises the reader of to-day, but that scenes which would
now shock any person of common humanity or taste, were, in the last century, especially intended
to amuse. In Miss Burney's "Evelina," Captain Mirvan continually insults and maltreats Mme.
Duval, the grandmother of the heroine, in a manner which would not only be inconceivable in
a gentleman tolerated in society, but in a blackguard, not entirely bereft of feelings of decency
or good-nature. While she is a guest in his own house, he torments her with false accounts
of the sufferings of a friend; sends her on a futile errand to relieve those sufferings in
a carriage of his own, and then, disguised as a highwayman, he assaults her with the collusion
of his servants, tears her clothes, and leaves her half dead with terror, tied with ropes,
at the bottom of a ditch. When Mme. Duval relates her ill-treatment to her granddaughter, Evelina
could only find occasion to say: "Though this narrative almost compelled me to laugh, yet I
was really irritated with the captain, for carrying his love of tormenting--sport, he calls
it to such harshness and unjustifiable extremes." And Miss Burney expected, no doubt with reason,
that her reader would be amused by all this.

In the same work a nobleman and a fashionable commoner are described as settling a bet by a
race between two decrepit women over eighty years of age. "When the signal was given for them
to set off, the poor creatures, feeble and frightened, ran against each other: and neither
of them being able to support the shock, they both fell on the ground. * * * Again they set
off, and hobbled along, nearly even with each other, for some time, yet frequently, to the
inexpressible diversion of the company, they stumbled and tottered. * * * Not long after, a
foot of one of the poor women slipped, and with great force she came again to the ground. *
* * Mr. Coverley went himself to help her, and insisted that the other should stop. A debate
ensued, but the poor creature was too much hurt to move, and declared her utter inability to
make another attempt. Mr. Coverley was quite brutal; he swore at her with unmanly rage, and
seemed scarce able to refrain even from striking her." It would be impossible perhaps to find
a party of the upper ranks gathered at a country house at the present time, composed of persons
who could have endured, without remonstrance, such treatment of a pair of superannuated horses;
yet Miss Burney describes the efforts and sufferings of these old women as affording inexpressible
diversion to the ladies and gentlemen who figure in her novel, and she evidently expects the
reader to be equally entertained. "Evelina" was written by a young woman who saw the best society,
who was maid of honor to Queen Charlotte, who was universally admired for her delicacy and
her talents, and whose novels are among the most refined of the time.

The higher ranks were much less influenced by the religious revival than the lower. Although
certainly not less in need of reformation, they were far less inclined to welcome it. The fashionable
indifference to religion was an obstacle which Wesley found much more difficult to overcome
than the brutal ignorance of the inmates of Newgate. After listening to a sermon by Whitefield,
Bolingbroke complimented the preacher by saying that he had "done great justice to the divine
attributes." The Duchess of Buckingham's remarks on the preaching of the Methodists, in a letter
to Lady Huntingdon, are an amusing commentary on the times. The vices which "the common wretches
that crawl the earth" practised in addition to these, her Grace would have had difficulty in
mentioning.

Still, in the latter half of the eighteenth century is to be traced a continual improvement,
which is reflected in contemporary fiction. As a remarkable example of the change which took
place may be mentioned the instance of the Earl of March. "As Duke of Queensberry, at nearer
ninety than eighty years of age, he was still rolling in wealth, still wallowing in sin, and
regarded by his countrymen as one whom it was hardly decent to name, because he did not choose,
out of respect for the public opinion of 1808, to discontinue a mode of existence which in
1768 was almost a thing of course" among the higher ranks.[188]

[Footnote 184: Wilson's "Memoirs of Daniel Defoe."]

[Footnote 185: For the diary of Thomas Turner, see "Glimpses of our Ancestors," by Charles
Fleet, pp. 31-52.]

[Footnote 186: For these manifestations, see Wesley's "Journal," and Lecky's "History of England
in the Eighteenth Century," vol. II, chap. ix.]

[Footnote 187: Lecky, "Hist. of England in the 18th Century," vol. ii, chap. 9.]

[Footnote 188: See Trevelyan's "Early History of Charles James Fox," Harper's ed., p. 75.]

II.

In 1759, were published the first two volumes of "Tristram Shandy," a singular and brilliant
medley of wit, sentiment, indecency, and study of character. Laurence Sterne was a profligate
clergyman, a dishonest author, and an unfaithful husband. He wrote "Tristram Shandy," and he
wrote a great many sermons. He descended to the indulgence of low tastes, and rose to an elevated
strain of thought, with equal facility. He was a man who knew the better and followed the worse.
His talents made him a welcome guest at great men's tables, where he paid for his dinner by
amusing the company with a brilliant succession of witticisms and indecent anecdotes, which,
to his hearers, derived an additional piquancy from the fact that they proceeded from the mouth
of a divine. But although the man was in many respects contemptible, although he disgraced
his priestly character by his profligacy, and his literary character by a shameless plagiarism,[189]
he possessed in a high degree a quality which must give him a distinguished place in English
fiction. His borrowed plumage and his imitation of Rabelais' style apart, Sterne had originality,
a gift at all times rare, and always, perhaps, becoming rarer. As a humorist, he is to be classed
with Fielding and Smollett, but as a novelist, his position in the history of fiction is separate
and unique.

"Tristram Shandy" has all the elements of a novel except the plot. The author has no story
to tell. His aim is to amuse the reader by odd and whimsical remarks on every subject and on
every personage whose peculiarities promise material for humor and satire. Sterne is perpetually
digressing, moralizing commenting on every trivial topic which enters into his story, until
the story itself is completely lost, if, indeed, it can be said ever to have been begun. The
absence of arrangement is so marked that it is very difficult to turn to a passage which in
a previous perusal has struck the eye. The eccentricity and whimsicality of the book contributed
greatly to its immediate popularity. But the same characteristics which seem brilliant when
novel, soon become dull when familiar, and although "Tristram Shandy" will always afford single
passages of lasting interest to the lover of literature, the work as a whole is not a little
tedious when read continuously from cover to cover.

In the course of his literary medley, Sterne introduces his reader to a group of characters
amongst the most odd and original in fiction. Mr. Shandy, with his syllogisms and his hypotheses,
his "close reasoning upon the smallest matters"; Yorick, the witty parson, whose epitaph, Alas!
Poor Yorick! expresses so tenderly the amiable faults for which he suffered; Captain Shandy,
that combination of simplicity, gentleness, humanity, and modesty, are all creations which
deserve to rank with the most individual and happily conceived of fictitious personages. Sterne
makes a character known to the reader by a succession of delicate touches rather than by description.
He seems to enter into an individual, and make him betray his peculiarities by significant
actions and phrases. Thus Mr. Shandy exposes at once the nature of his mind and the vigor of
his "hobby-horse," when he exclaims to his brother Toby: "What is the character of a family
to an hypothesis?"

The combination of sentiment, pathos, and humor which Sterne sometimes reached with remarkable
success, is particularly apparent in every incident which concerns the celebrated Captain Toby
Shandy, for the creation of which character this author may most easily be forgiven his indecencies
and his literary thefts. Thus begins the famous tale which Dr. Johnson made the repository
of so much of his wisdom, and so beautiful an example of English style. Rasselas and his royal
brothers and sisters live in a secluded portion of the earth known as the Happy Valley, where,
completely isolated from the world, they await their succession to the crown of the imaginary
land of Abyssinia, surrounded by every luxury which can make life agreeable, and shut off from
all knowledge of those evils which can make it painful. The aim of the story is to show the
vanity of expecting perfect happiness, and the folly of sacrificing present advantages for
the delusive promises of the future.

The scene opens in the Happy Valley, where there is all that labor or danger can procure or
purchase, without either labor to be endured or danger to be dreaded. Rasselas illustrates
the habitual discontent of man by wearying of the monotonous happiness of his royal home, and,
together with his sister Nekayah, who shares his ennui, and Imlac, a man of learning, he escapes
from the abode of changeless joys and perpetual merriment.

Once beyond the barriers of the Happy Valley, Rasselas and Nekayah seek in the various ranks
and conditions of men the abode of true happiness. It is sought in vain amidst the hollow and
noisy pleasures of the young and thoughtless; in vain among philosophers, whose theories so
ill accord with their practice; in vain among shepherds, whose actual life contrasts so painfully
with the descriptions of the poet; in vain in crowds, where sorrow lurks beneath the outward
smile; in vain in the cell of the hermit, who counts the days till he shall once more mix with
the world. The task becomes more hopeless with each new disappointment. Rasselas pursues his
investigation among the higher ranks, in courts and cities; Nekayah, hers among the poor and
humble, in the shop and the hamlet. But when the brother and sister meet to share their experiences,
they both have the same tale to tell of human discontent. Finally, in returning disappointed
to Abyssinia, they illustrate the tendency among men to look back with regret on the early
pleasures of life, abandoned for the impossible happiness which discontent had taught them to seek.

On this slight thread of narrative, Johnson strung his thoughts with great felicity. The characters,
by the different view which they entertain of life, are distinct and individual. The book is
filled with pregnant and beautiful passages, which leave a deep impression on the reader. The
words in which Imlac describes to the Prince and Princess the dangers of an unrestrained imagination,
might, with equal propriety, find a place in a scientific treatise on the causes of insanity,
and in a collection of beautiful literary extracts:

    To indulge the power of fiction, and send imagination out upon the
    wing, is often the sport of those who delight too much in silent
    speculation. When we are alone, we are not always busy; the labour
    of excogitation is too violent to last long; the ardour of inquiry
    will sometimes give way to idleness or satiety. He who has nothing
    external that can divert him, must find pleasure in his own
    thoughts, and must conceive himself what he is not; for who is
    pleased with what he is? He then expatiates in boundless futurity,
    and culls from all imaginable conditions that which for the present
    moment he should most desire, amuses his desires with impossible
    enjoyments, and confers upon his pride unattainable dominion. The
    mind dances from scene to scene, unites all pleasures in all
    combinations, and riots in delights which nature and fortune, with
    all their bounty, cannot bestow.

    In time, some particular train of ideas fixes the attention; all
    other intellectual gratifications are rejected; the mind, in
    weariness or leisure, recurs constantly to the favorite conception,
    and feasts on the luscious falsehood whenever she is offended with
    the bitterness of truth. By degrees, the reign of fancy is
    confirmed; she grows first imperious, and in time, despotic. Then
    fictions begin to operate as realities, false opinions fasten upon
    the mind, and life passes in dreams of rapture or of anguish.[191]

The resemblance between Johnson's "Rasselas" and Voltaire's "Candide" is so marked, that had
either author seen the other's work, he must have been suspected of imitation. But while both
these great minds were writing at nearly the same time on the same theme of human misery, the
lessons they taught differed in a manner which is strongly illustrative of the differences
between the two men and their respective surroundings. French scepticism and distrust of divine
power led Voltaire to impute human griefs to the incapacity of the Creator. But Johnson, writing
"Rasselas" in an hour of sorrow, to obtain means to pay for his mother's funeral, taught that
that happiness, which this world can not afford, should be sought in the prospect of another
and a better.[192]

All readers of Boswell know how the "Vicar of Wakefield" found a publisher. How Goldsmith's
landlady arrested him for his rent, and how he wrote to Johnson in his distress. How the kind
lexicographer sent a guinea at once, and followed to find the guinea already changed, and a
bottle of Madeira before the persecuted but philosophical author. How Johnson put the cork
in the bottle, and after a hasty glance at the MS. of the "Vicar of Wakefield," went out and
sold it for sixty pounds. And how triumphantly Goldsmith rated his landlady.

In the hands of that bookseller, who purchased the novel as much out of charity as in hope
of profit, the "Vicar of Wakefield" remained neglected, until the publication of "The Traveler"
had made the author famous. This interval would have afforded Goldsmith ample time to correct
the obvious inconsistencies and faults which his work contained. But in the spirit of a man
who depended on his pen for his bread, he made no effort to improve what had already brought
him all this remuneration for which he could hope. This is the more to be regretted, that very
little revision would have been sufficient, to make the "Vicar of Wakefield" as perfect in
its construction as in its style and spirit. The hero of this piece unites in himself the three
greatest characters upon earth;--he is a priest, a husbandman, and the father of a family.
He is drawn as ready to teach, and ready to obey--as simple in affluence, and majestic in adversity."

These few words are not an inaccurate statement of the merits and demerits of the "Vicar of
Wakefield." Faults there are, certainly. The improbability of Sir William Thornhill's being
able to go about among his own tenantry incognito, without other disguise than a change of
dress; the inconsistency of the philanthropist's allowing his villainous nephew to retain possession
of the wealth which he used only to assist him in his crimes; and, finally, the impossibility
of that nephew's being so nearly of an age with Sir William himself, when he must have been
the son of a younger brother, are all blemishes which Goldsmith might easily have removed,
had he not relied on the opinion which he expressed in Chapter xv, "the reputation of books
is raised, not by their freedom from defect, but by the greatness of their beauties."

Such a rule would be an obviously dangerous one for an author to follow. But Goldsmith's confidence
in the beauties of his novel was fully justified by the verdict of the world. No novelist has
more deeply imbued his work with his own genius and spirit, and none have had a more beneficent
genius, nor a more beautiful spirit to impart than the author of "The Deserted Village." The
exquisite style, the delicate choice of words, the amiability of sentiment, so peculiarly his
own, and so well suited to express the simple beauty of his thoughts, give a charm to the work
which familiarity can only endear. Dr. Primrose, preserving his simplicity, his modesty, and
his nobility of character alike when surrounded by the pleasures of his early and prosperous
home, when struggling with the hardships of his ruined fortune, and when rewarded at last by
the surfeit of good-fortune which follows his trial, stands high among the most noble conceptions
of English fiction. So wrote Washington Irving; and if the reader is inclined to look for the
causes of the extraordinary endurance of Goldsmith's work, he can find them nowhere better
stated than in the words of John Forster: "Not in those graces of style, nor even in that home-cherished
gallery of familiar faces can the secret of its extraordinary fascination be said to consist.
It lies nearer the heart. A something which has found its way there; which, while it amused,
has made us happier; which, gently interweaving itself with our habits of thought, has increased
our good-humour and charity; which, insensibly it may be, has corrected wilful impatiences
of temper, and made the world's daily accidents easier and kinder to us all; somewhat thus
should be expressed, I think, the charm of the 'Vicar of Wakefield.'"

In 1760 was published "Chrysal, the Adventures of a Guinea," by Charles Johnstone, the author
of several deservedly forgotten novels.[193] The first volume was sent to Dr. Johnson for his
opinion, who thought, as Boswell tells us, that it should be published--an estimate justified
by the considerable circulation which the book enjoyed.

Chrysal is an elementary spirit, whose abode is in a piece of gold converted into a guinea.
In that form the spirit passes from man to man, and takes accurate note of the different scenes
of which it becomes a witness. This is a natural and favorable medium for a satire, which Johnstone
probably owed, in some measure, both to the "Diable Boiteux" of Gil Blas, and the "Adventures
of a Halfpenny" of Dr. Bathurst. The circulation of the guinea enables the author to describe
the characteristics of its possessors as seen by a truthful witness, and he has taken advantage
of his opportunity to produce one of the most disgusting records of vice in literature. A depraved
mind only could find any pleasure in reading "Chrysal," and whoever is obliged to read it from
cover to cover for the purpose of describing it to others, must find himself, at the end of
his task, in sore vexation of spirit. Human depravity is never an agreeable subject for a work
of entertainment, and while Swift's genius holds the reader fascinated with the horror of his
Yahoos, the ability of a Manley or a Johnstone is not sufficient to aid the reader in wading
through their vicious expositions of corruption. It must be said that Johnstone had some excuse.
If he were to satirize society at all, it was better that he should do it thoroughly; that
he should expose official greed and dishonesty, the orgies of Medenham Abbey, the infamous
extortions of trading justices, in all their native ugliness. It must be said that the time
in which he lived presented many features to the painter of manners which could not look otherwise
than repulsive on his canvas. But his zeal to expose the vices of his age led him into doing
great injustice to some persons, and into grossly libelling others. He imputed crimes to individuals
of which he could have had no knowledge; and he shamefully misrepresented the Methodists and
the Jews. If Johnstone had wished to see how offensive a book he might write, and how disgusting
and indecent a book the public of his day would read and applaud, he might well have brought
"Chrysal" into the world. If he had intended, by exposing crime, to check it, he had better
have burned his manuscript. He has added one other corruption to those he exposed, and one
other evidence of the lack of taste and decency which characterized his time. No man can plead
the intention of a reformer as an excuse for placing before the world the scenes and suggestions
of unnatural crime which sully the pages of "Chrysal," and if men do, in single instances,
fall below the level of brutes, he who gloats over their infamy and publishes their contagious
guilt deserves some share of their odium.

The novels of Henry Mackenzie have a charm of their own, which may be largely attributed to
the fact that their author was a gentleman. Whoever has read, to any extent, the works of fiction
of the eighteenth century, must have observed how perpetually he was kept in low company, how
rarely he met with a character who had the instincts as well as the social position of a gentleman.
A tone of refined sentiment and dignity pervades "The Man of Feeling," which recalls the "Vicar
of Wakefield," and introduces the reader to better company and more elevated thoughts than
the novels of the time usually afford. "The Man of Feeling" is hardly a narrative. Harley,
the chief character, is a sensitive, retiring man, with feelings too fine for his surroundings.
The author places him in various scenes, and traces the effect which each produces upon his
character. The effect of the work is agreeable, though melancholy, and the early death of Harley
completes the delineation of a man too gentle and too sensitive to battle with life.

In his next novel Mackenzie described the counterpart of Harley, "The Man of the World." Almost
any writer of the present day who took a man of the world for his hero, would draw him as a
calm, philosophical person, neither very good nor very bad,--one who took the pleasures and
troubles of life as they came, without quarrelling with either. But the man of the world as
Mackenzie paints him, and as the eighteenth century made him, was quite another individual.
Sir Thomas Sindall is a villain of the heroic type. Not one, simply, who does all the injury
and commits all the crimes which chance brings in his way. He labors with a ceaseless persistency,
and a resolution which years do not diminish, to seduce a single woman. Without any apparent
passion, he finally accomplishes his object by force, after having spent several years in ruining
her brother to prevent his interference. The long periods of time, the great expenditure of
vital energy, and the exhaustless fund of brutality which are consumed by the fictitious villains
of the eighteenth century in gratifying what would seem merely a passing inclination, astonish
the reader of to-day. The crime of rape, rarely now introduced into fiction, and rarely figuring
even in criminal courts, is a common incident in old novels, and as commonly, remains unpunished.
In Sir Thomas Sindall, Mackenzie meant to present a contrast to the delicate and benevolent
character of Harley. Both are extremes, the one of sensibility, the other of brutality. Harley
was a new creation, but Sindall quite a familiar person, with whom all readers of the novels
of the last century have often associated.

It was suggested very sensibly to Mackenzie, that the interest of most works of fiction depended
on the designing villainy of one or more characters, and that in actual life calamities were
more often brought about by the innocent errors of the sufferers. To place this view before
his readers, Mackenzie wrote "Julia de Roubigné," in which a wife brings death upon herself
and her husband by indiscreetly, though innocently, arousing his jealousy. Sir Walter Scott
ranked this novel among the "most heart-wringing histories" that ever were written--a description
which justly becomes it. Mackenzie's aim was less to weave a complicated plot, than to study
and move the heart; and to the lover of sentiment his novels may still be attractive.

The "Fool of Quality," by Henry Brooke, has had a singular history. The author was a young
Irishman of a fine figure, a well-stored mind, and a disposition of particular gentleness.
He was loved by Pope and Lyttleton, caressed by the Prince of Wales, and honored by the friendly
interest of Jonathan Swift. Married before he was twenty-one to a young girl who presented
him with three children before she was eighteen, his life was a constant struggle to provide
for a family which increased with every year. After a long period of active life, passed in
literary occupations, he retired to an obscure part of Ireland, and there died, attended by
a daughter, the only survivor of twenty-two children, who remembered nothing of her father
"previous to his retirement from the world; and knew little of him, save that he bore the infirmities
and misfortunes of his declining years with the heroism of true Christianity, and that he was
possessed of virtues and feelings which shone forth to the last moment of his life, unimpaired
by the distractions of pain, and unshaken amid the ruins of genius."[194]

The "Fool of Quality" was first published in 1766, and received a moderate share of public
attention. Its narrative was extremely slight. Harry, the future Earl of Moreland, was stolen
from his parents by an uncle in disguise; and the five volumes of the work consist almost entirely
of an account of the education of the child, and the various incidents which affected or illustrated
his mental growth. One day John Wesley chanced to meet with it, and although he required his
followers "to read only such books as tend to the knowledge and love of God," he was tempted
to look into this particular novel. The "whimsical title" at first offended him, but as he
proceeded, he became so enthusiastic over the moral excellence of the work, that he expunged
some offensive passages it contained, and republished it for the benefit of the Methodists.
"I now venture to recommend the following treatise," said Wesley to his people, "as the most
excellent in its kind that I have seen either in the English or any other language. * * * It
perpetually aims at inspiring and increasing every right affection; at the instilling gratitude
to God and benevolence to man. And it does this not by dry, dull, tedious, precepts, but by
the liveliest examples that can be conceived; by setting before your eyes one of the most beautiful
pictures that ever was drawn in the world. The strokes of this are so delicately fine, the
touches so easy, natural, and affecting, that I know not who can survey it with tearless eyes,
unless he has a heart of stone. I recommend it, therefore, to all those who are already, or
who desire to be, lovers of God and man." It was not as a good novel that Wesley either enjoyed
or republished the "Fool of Quality." He recommended it for the excellence of its moral, and
the "Fool of Quality" would have been allowed to slumber forever on Methodist book-shelves,
had it not been revived by a man who was an equally good judge of a moral and a work of fiction.

But, in regard to this novel, it must be admitted that Charles Kingsley's judgment was seriously
at fault. He saw both its qualities and its faults, but he did not realize that a good purpose
will not make up for a poor execution. The causes of the neglect of the book, said the Canon
in his preface, are to be found "in its deep and grand ethics, in its broad and genial humanity,
in the divine value which it attaches to the relations of husband and wife, father and child,
and to the utter absence, both of that sentimentalism and that superstition which have been
alternately debauching of late years the minds of the young. And if he shall have arrived at
this discovery, he will be able possibly to regard at least with patience those who are rash
enough to affirm that they have learnt from this book more which is pure, sacred, and eternal,
than from any which has been published since Spenser's 'Fairy Queen.'"[195] On the testimony
of Wesley and of Kingsley, all the merits of a moral nature which they claim for the "Fool
of Quality" will readily be accorded to it. But it is very doubtful that such qualities would
necessarily interfere with the success of a work of fiction. The real reason why very few who
can help it will read this novel, lies in those characteristics which Kingsley himself admitted
would appear to the average reader. "The plot is extravagant as well as ill-woven, and broken,
besides, by episodes as extravagant as itself. The morality is quixotic, and practically impossible.
The sermonizing, whether theological or social, is equally clumsy and obtrusive. Without artistic
method, without knowledge of human nature and the real world, the book can never have touched
many hearts and can touch none now."[196]

It is singular that Kingsley should have expected that a book with so many and so evident faults
could have remained popular simply because its moral was a good one. If he had sat down to
warn the world against Henry Brooke's novel, he could hardly have expressed himself with more
effect. Whatever merit it may have is buried under a mass of dulness almost impossible to penetrate,
and a silliness pervades the characters and the conversations which makes even the lighter
portions unreadable. The "Fool of Quality" has all the drawbacks of a novel of purpose in an
exaggerated form. The improvement of his reader is a laudable object for a novelist. But it
is an object which can be successfully carried out in a work of art, only very indirectly.
An author may have a great influence for good, but that influence can be obtained, not by deliberate
sermonizing, but only by tone of healthy sentiment which insensibly elevates the reader's mind.

Toward the end of the eighteenth century, the number and variety of works of fiction rapidly
increased. William Beckford, whom Byron calls in "Childe Harold," "Vathek, England's wealthiest
son," wrote in his twentieth year the oriental romance "Vathek," which excited great attention
at the time. It was composed in three days and two nights, during which the author never took
off his clothes. Byron considered this tale superior to "Rasselas." It represented the downward
career of an oriental prince, who had given himself up to sensual indulgence, and who is allured
by a Giaour into the commission of crimes which lead him to everlasting and horrible punishments.
"Vathek" gives evidence of a familiarity with oriental customs, and a vividness of imagination
which are remarkable in so youthful an author. The descriptions of the Caliph and of the Hall
of Eblis are full of power. But in depth of meaning, and in that intrinsic worth which gives
endurance to a literary work, it bears no comparison to "Rasselas." The one affords an hour's
amusement; the other retains its place among those volumes which are read and re-read with
constant pleasure and satisfaction.

The novels of Richard Cumberland, "Henry," "Arundel," and "John de Lancaster," contain some
well-drawn characters and readable sketches of life. But Cumberland had little originality.
He aimed without success at Fielding's constructive excellence, and imitated that great master's
humor, only to reproduce his coarseness. The character of Ezekiel Daw, the Methodist, in "Henry,"
is fair and just, and contrasts very favorably with the libellous representations of the Methodist
preachers in Graves' "Spiritual Quixote," and other contemporary novels. Another writer of
fiction of considerable prominence in his day, but of none in ours, was Dr. Moore, whose "Zeluco"
contained some very lively "Views of human nature, taken from life and manners, foreign and
domestic," but also some very disagreeable exhibitions of human degradation and vice.

The influence of the French Revolution in England is apparent in the works of several novelists
who wrote at the end of the eighteenth century. Thomas Holcroft embodied radical views in novels
now quite forgotten.[197] Robert Bage has left four works containing opinions of a revolutionary
character--"Barham Downs," "James Wallace," "The Fair Syrian," and "Mount Henneth." These novels
are written in the form of a series of letters and have little narrative interest. The author
has striven, sometimes successfully, at a powerful delineation of character, but his works
are too evidently a vehicle for his political and philosophical opinions. He represents with
unnatural consistency the upper classes as invariably corrupt and tyrannical, and the lower
as invariably honest and deserving. His theories are not only inartistically prominent, but
are worthless and immoral. He looks upon a tax-gatherer as a thief, and condones feminine unchastity
as a trivial and unimportant offence.

The novelist most deeply embued with the doctrines of the French Revolution was William Godwin--a
man of great literary ambition, and less literary capacity. His "Life of Chaucer" has the merits
of a compilation, but not those of an original literary work. His political and social writings
were merely reproductions of French revolutionary views, and were entirely discredited by Malthus'
attacks upon them. The same lack of originality and of independent power characterized Godwin's
novels. They all have a patch-work effect, and in all may be found the traces of imitation.
"St. Leon" and "Mandeville"[198] are dull attempts in the direction of the historical novel.
"Fleetwood, or the New Man of Feeling" embodies some of the author's social views, and contains
evidence of an imitation of Fielding and Smollett, in which only their coarseness is successfully
copied.

But Godwin gave one book to the world which has acquired a notoriety which entitles it to a
more extended notice than its intrinsic merits would otherwise justify. "Caleb Williams" was
first published in 1794, and was widely read. Lord Byron is said to have threatened his wife
that he would treat her as Falkland had treated Caleb Williams, and this fact brought the novel
into prominence with the Byron controversy, and occasioned its republication in the present
century. The author tells us that his object was "to comprehend a general review of the modes
of domestic and unrecorded despotism by which man becomes the destroyer of man." And this was
to be done "without subtracting from the interest and passion by which a performance of this
sort (a novel) ought to be characterized." In both his didactic and his artistic purpose the
author must be said to have failed. The story is briefly as follows: Falkland, who is represented
as a man whose chief thought and consideration consist in guarding his honor from stain, stabs
Tyrrel, his enemy, in the back, at night. He then allows two innocent men to suffer for the
murder on the gallows. His aim, during the remainder of his life, is to prevent the discovery
of his crime and the consequent disgrace to his name. Caleb Williams enters his employment
as a secretary, discovers the secret with the greatest ease, and promises never to betray his
patron. Williams soon becomes weary of his position, and attempts to escape. He is accused
by Falkland of robbery and is imprisoned. He escapes from prison, and wanders about the country,
always pursued by the hirelings of his master who use every means to render his life miserable.
Finally he openly accuses Falkland of his crime, who confesses it and dies. The story is full
of the most evident inconsistencies. There is no adequate reason for Tyrrel's hatred of Falkland,
which leads to the murder. It is inconceivable that a man of Falkland's worship of honor should
commit so dastardly a crime, and should suffer two innocent men to pay its penalty. The facility
with which Falkland allows his secretary to discover a secret which would bring him to the
gallows is entirely inconsistent with the strength of mind which the author imputes to his
hero. Finally, the confession of crime, after so many years of secrecy, and when conscience
must have been blunted by time and habit, is without adequate cause. The characters are very
slightly sketched, and excite neither interest nor sympathy. Emily Melville resembles Pamela
too closely, and Tyrrel is a poor reproduction of Squire Western.

Godwin tells us that, when thinking over "Caleb Williams," he said to himself a thousand times:
"I will write a tale, that shall constitute an epoch in the mind of the reader, that no one,
after he has read it, shall ever be exactly the same man that he was before." The effort, and
straining after effect which this confession implies, are evident throughout the work. The
reader's curiosity is continually excited by the promise of new interest and new developments,
but he is as continually disappointed. The main idea of the story is certainly a striking one,
but it is feebly carried out. The constitution of society cannot be effectively attacked by
so improbable and exceptional an illustration of tyranny as the persecution of Caleb Williams.

[Footnote 189: It would be difficult to find a more bare-faced and impudent literary theft
than the case in which Sterne appropriated to himself the remonstrance of Burton ("Anatomy
of Melancholy"), against that very plagiarism which he (Sterne) was then committing. Burton
said: "As apothecaries, we make new mixtures, every day pour out of one vessel into another
* * * We weave the same web, still twist the same rope again and again." Sterne says, with
an effrontery all his own: "Shall we forever make new books, as apothecaries make new medicines,
by pouring only out of one vessel into another? Are we forever to be twisting and untwisting
the same rope--forever in the same track? forever at the same pace?" For Sterne's plagiarism,
see Dr. Ferriar's "Essay and Illustrations," also Scott's "Life of Sterne."]

[Footnote 190: "Tristram Shandy," orig. ed., vol. viii, chap. 8.]

[Footnote 191: "Rasselas," chap. xliv. Contrast with Porter on "The Human Intellect," pp. 371-2.]

[Footnote 192: See Scott's "Memoir of Johnson."]

[Footnote 193: "The Reverie," "The History of Arbaces," "The Pilgrim," "The History of John
Juniper."]

[Footnote 194: The facts of Brooke's life are taken from the introduction to the "Fool of Quality,"
by Rev. Charles Kingsley, New York, 1860.]

[Footnote 195: Charles Kingsley, preface to the "Fool of Quality."]

[Footnote 196: Kingsley's preface to "Fool of Quality."]

[Footnote 197: "Alwyn," "Anna St. Ives," "Hugh Trevor," "Bryan Perdue."]

[Footnote 198: Published in 1817, when the author was far advanced in years.]

III.

The publication of "Evelina," in 1778, made a sensation which the merits of the work fully
justified. The story of Miss Burney's[199] early life, her furtive attempts at fictitious composition,
the great variety of artistic and political characters who passed in review before her observant
eyes at Dr. Burney's house have been made familiar by her own diary and letters. Petted and
admired by Johnson, Mrs. Thrale, and the brilliant literary society of which they formed the
centre, she lived sufficiently far into the present century to see the works of her early friends
enrolled among the classics or consigned to oblivion, and to recognize that the approval of
posterity had been added to the early fame of her own writings. As a very young girl, unnoticed
by the distinguished persons who frequented her father's house, she had studied with careful
attention the characters and manners of those who talked and moved about her. A strong desire
to reproduce the impressions which filled her mind induced Miss Burney in her sixteenth year
to devote her stolen hours of seclusion to fictitious composition. Discouraged in her early
efforts by her stepmother, her habits of observation remained active, and took form, when the
authoress was twenty five years old, in the famous novel of "Evelina." The book was issued
secretly and anonymously, the publisher even being ignorant of the writer's true name. But
the immediate popularity and admiration which greeted the work soon led to its open acknowledgment
by the happy young authoress.

And "Evelina" fully deserved the praise and interest which it obtained and still excites. The
aim was to describe the difficulties and sensations of a young girl just entering life. The
heroine chosen by Miss Burney was one whose circumstances particularly well suited her to form
the centre of a varied collection of characters and of a comprehensive picture of contemporary
society. Well connected on her father's side, Evelina moved in fashionable circles with the
Mirvan family. On account of the origin of her mother she was brought into close contact with
humbler personages, with Madame Duval and the Brangtons. Hence this novel presents to the reader
a variety of social scenes which gives it a value possessed by no other work of fiction of
the eighteenth century. No novelist has described so well or so fully the aspect of the theatres,
of Vauxhall and Ranelagh, of Bath in the season, of the ridottos and assemblies of the London
fashionable world. The shops, the amusements and the manners of the middle classes are made
familiar to Evelina by her association with the Brangtons, and add greatly to the breadth of
this valuable picture of metropolitan life. With a feminine attention to detail, and a quick
perception of salient characteristics, Miss Burney described the world about her so faithfully
and picturesquely as to deserve the thanks of every student of social history. The novel of
"Evelina," the letters of Horace Walpole and Mrs. Delany corroborate each other, and may be
appropriately placed on the same shelf in a well-ordered library.

In the painting of manners Miss Burney was eminently successful. But she was hardly less so
in a point in which excellence could not have been expected in so youthful a writer. The plot
of "Evelina" is constructed with a skill worthy of a veteran. Fielding alone, of the eighteenth
century novelists, can be said to surpass Miss Burney in this respect. The whole story of the
mischances and misunderstanding of Evelina's intercourse with Lord Orville, the skill with
which the various personages are brought into contact with each other and made to contribute
to the final dénoument, compose a truly artistic success. The introduction of Macartney and
his marriage to the supposed daughter of Sir John Belmont form a very happy and effective invention.

In regard to her sketches of character, it may be objected that Miss Burney lacked breadth
of treatment, that she dwelt on one distinctive characteristic at the expense of the others.
But still, Lord Orville, though somewhat too much of a model, and Mrs. Selwyn, though somewhat
too habitually a wit, are vivid and life-like characters. The Brangtons and Sir Clement Willougby
are nature itself, and the girlish nature of Evelina is betrayed in her letters with great
felicity.

It is no small triumph for Miss Burney, who has had so many and so deserving competitors in
the department of literature to which she contributed, that her novels should have remained
in active circulation for more than a century after their publication. "Cecilia" has much the
same merits which distinguished "Evelina," and the two novels bid fair to hold their own as
long as English fiction retains its popularity. Johnson considered Miss Burney equal to Fielding.
But although she possessed qualities similar to his--constructive power and picturesqueness--she
possessed them in a lesser degree. In the management of the difficulties of the epistolary
form of novel-writing, she surpassed Richardson in verisimilitude and concentration.

Some readers of the present day object to Miss Burney's novels that they contain so many references
to "delicacy" and "propriety" that an air of affectation is produced. But at the time when
"Evelina" was written, a perpetual discretion in actions and words was absolutely necessary
to a young woman who did not wish to be subjected to libertine advances. Society is now so
much more generally refined that there is far less danger of such misconstruction, and far
less need for a young girl to be always on her guard. A sound objection, on the ground of taste,
may be made against the excessively prolonged account of Captain Mirvan's brutalities. The
effect might have been as well produced in a much shorter space, and the reader spared the
uninteresting scenes which now fill so many repulsive pages. For this defect, however, we must
blame the times more than the author.

Charlotte Lennox was the daughter of Sir James Ramsay, Lieutenant governor of New York, where
she was born in 1720. When fifteen years of age she was sent to London, and there supported
herself by her pen. Such high praise was not called forth by Mrs. Lennox's novels, which have
little originality or power. "The Female Quixote" is an entertaining satire on the old French
romances, but "Sophia," and "Euphemia" are without any special interest.

A writer of more ability, whose name is still remembered by novel-readers, is Mrs. Inchbald.
She was overcome in early life by an enthusiasm for the stage; ran away from home to find theatrical
employment, and remained for many years a popular London actress. Although possessed of great
and durable beauty, and the object of constant attention from aristocratic admirers, it is
believed that her reputation continued unsullied. Her poverty, largely caused by a worthless
husband, obliged her to perform the most menial labors. She rejoiced on one occasion that the
approach of warmer weather released her from the duty of making fires, scouring the grate,
sifting the cinders, and of going up and down three pair of long stairs with water or dirt.
All this Mrs. Inchbald thought that she could cheerfully bear, but the labor of being a fine
lady the remainder of the day was almost too much for her. "Last Thursday," she wrote to a
friend, "I finished scouring my bed-chamber, while a coach with a coronet and two footmen waited
at the door to take me an airing."

The same courage and industry were carried by Mrs. Inchbald into her literary labors, the profits
of which enabled her to live with considerable comfort toward the end of her life. She left
a large number of plays, many of which had been acted with success, and two novels, "A Simple
Story," published in 1791, and "Nature and Art," published five years later. Neither of these
works has much merit from a critical point of view. They are faulty in construction, and give
frequent evidence of the authoress' lack of education.

Yet, in her ability to excite the interest and to move the feelings of her reader, Mrs. Inchbald
met with great success. Her novels are of the pathetic order, and appeal to the sympathies
with a sometimes powerful effect. Maria Edgeworth was deeply moved by the "Simple Story." "Its
effect upon my feelings," she said after reading it for the fourth time, "was as powerful as
at the first reading; I never read any novel--I except none,--I never read any novel that affected
me so strongly, or that so completely possessed me with the belief in the real existence, of
all the persons it represents. I never once recollected the author whilst I was reading it;
never said or thought, that's a fine sentiment,--or, that is well expressed--or, that is well
invented; I believed all to be real, and was affected as I should be by the real scenes, if
they had passed before my eyes; it is truly and deeply pathetic."

The sisters, Harriet and Sophia Lee, wrote a number of stories gathered together under the
rather unfortunate title of "The Canterbury Tales," which had a long-continued popularity.
"The Young Lady's Tale," and "The Clergyman's Tale" were written by Sophia; all the others,
together with the novel "Errors of Innocence," belonged to Harriet. These stories have great
narrative interest, and contain some powerfully drawn characters. Byron was deeply affected
by some of them. Of the "German's Tale," he confessed: "It made a deep impression on me, and
may be said to contain the germ of much that I have since written." It not only contained the
germ of "Werner," but supplied the whole material for that tragedy. All the characters of the
novel are reproduced by Byron except "Ida," whom he added. The plan of Miss Lee's work is exactly
followed, as the poet admitted, and even the language is frequently adopted without essential
change.

Charlotte Smith was a woman of talent and imagination who was driven to literature for aid
in supporting a large family abandoned by their spendthrift father. She was among the most
prolific novelists of her time, but only one work, "The Old Manor House," enjoyed more than
a passing reputation, or has any claim to particular mention here. The chief merit of Charlotte
Smith's novels lies in their descriptions of scenery, an element only just entering into the
work of the novelist.

Clara Reeve and the celebrated Mrs. Radcliffe did much to sustain the prominent position which
women were taking in fictitious composition, and their works will be commented upon in connection
with the romantic revival, to which movement they were eminent contributors.

Toward the end of the eighteenth century, the number and variety of works of fiction increased
with remarkable rapidity. The female sex supplied its full share, both in amount and in excellence
of work. But those who desire to see the advent of women into new walks of active life on the
ground that their presence and participation add to the purity of every occupation they adopt,
can find no illustration of the theory in the connection of women with fictitious composition.
Mrs. Behn, Mrs. Manley, and Mrs. Heywood, the earliest female novelists, produced the most
inflammatory and licentious novels of their time. At a later period, during the eighteenth
century, although some female writers exhibited a very exceptional refinement, the majority
showed in this respect no marked superiority to their masculine contemporaries. In our own
time, whoever would make a list of those novels which are most evidently immoral in their teachings
and licentious in their tone, would be obliged to seek them almost quite as much among the
works of female writers, as among those of the rougher sex.

To write a really excellent novel, is among the most difficult of literary feats. But to write
a poor one has often been found an easy undertaking. The apparent facility of fictitious composition
has deceived great numbers of literary aspirants, and has filled the circulating libraries
with a vast collection of thoroughly worthless productions. This unfortunate fecundity, to
which the department of fiction is subject, began to be conspicuous at the end of the eighteenth
century,[200] and excited much opposition to novels of all kinds. Hannah More, in her essays
on female education, inveighed against the evil in terms which are quite as applicable at the
present day. "Who are those ever multiplying authors, that with unparalleled fecundity are
overstocking the world with their quick-succeeding progeny? They are novel-writers; the easiness
of whose productions is at once the cause of their own fruitfulness, and of the almost infinitely
numerous race of imitators to whom they give birth. Such is the frightful facility of this
species of composition, that every raw girl, while she reads, is tempted to fancy that she
can also write. And as Alexander, on perusing the Iliad, found by congenial sympathy the image
of Achilles stamped on his own ardent soul, and felt himself the hero he was studying; and
as Correggio, on first beholding a picture which exhibited the perfection of the graphic art,
prophetically felt all his own future greatness, and cried out in rapture: 'And I, too, am
a painter!' So a thorough-paced novel-reading miss, at the close of every tissue of hackneyed
adventures, feels within herself the stirring impulse of corresponding genius, and triumphantly
exclaims: 'And I, too, am an author!' The glutted imagination soon overflows with the redundance
of cheap sentiment and plentiful incident, and, by a sort of arithmetical proportion, is enabled
by the perusal of any three novels, to produce a fourth; till every fresh production, like
the prolific progeny of Banquo, is followed by

    'Another, and another, and another!'"

[Footnote 199: Afterward Madame D'Arblay.]

[Footnote 200: See the "Progress of Romance," by Clara Reeve, for the names of many now forgotten
novels, for which room cannot be spared here.]

IV.

The writers who took the chief part in originating and sustaining the romantic revival in English
fiction were Horace Walpole, Clara Reeve, and Mrs. Radcliffe. As we have called upon the testimony
of Walpole so often in this work, and as we are now to consider him as an author, some account
of his personal appearance may be of interest. "His figure," says Miss Hawkins, "was not merely
tall, but long and slender to excess; his complexion, and particularly his hands, of a most
unhealthy paleness. His eyes were remarkably bright and penetrating, very dark and lively:--his
voice was not strong, but his tones were extremely pleasant, and, if I may so say, highly gentlemanly.
I do not remember his common gait; he always entered a room in that style of affected delicacy
which fashion had then made almost natural; chapeau bras between his hands as if he wished
to compress it, or under his arm; knees bent, and feet on tiptoe, as if afraid of a wet floor.
His dress in visiting was most usually, in summer, when I most saw him, a lavender suit, the
waistcoat embroidered with a little silver, or of white silk worked in the tambour, partridge
silk stockings, and gold buckles, ruffles and frill generally lace. I remember, when a child,
thinking him very much under-dressed, if at any time, except in mourning, he wore hemmed cambric.
In summer, no powder, but his wig combed straight, and showing his very smooth, pale forehead,
and queued behind; in winter, powder."

Posterity has cause to regret that Horace Walpole, of all men best fitted by personal knowledge
and ability to draw a picture of the brilliant society of his time, should have contributed
no work in the department of realistic fiction. Had the keen observation and experience of
the world so conspicuous in his letters been brought to bear on a narrative of real life not
less ably constructed than that of "The Castle of Otranto," an addition of no little value
to the social history of the eighteenth century must have been the result. But although Walpole
attempted no novel in which he might have depicted the fashionable life of which he was so
faithful a chronicler, he yet tried an experiment in fiction for which he was peculiarly qualified
by his antiquarian studies and his fondness for the arts and customs of feudal times.

The object of "The Castle of Otranto" was to unite the characteristic elements of the ancient
romance with those of the modern novel. It was attempted to introduce into a narrative constructed
with modern order and sequence, such supernatural events as controlled the incidents of romantic
fiction. To accomplish this result, it was necessary that the mise en scène should be impressive
and awe-inspiring, that the reader's mind should be insensibly prepared by strange surroundings
for extraordinary incidents. In his selection of age and scene, Walpole was highly judicious.
He chose the feudal period, when superstition accorded the most ready belief to supernatural
agencies. He introduced his reader to a huge, gloomy castle, furnished with towers, donjons,
subterranean passages, and trapdoors. He took for his hero, Manfred, a fierce and cruel knight,
who had obtained his lands by duplicity and blood; whose chief aim in life was to continue
his posterity in possession of wrongfully acquired power. He added subordinate characters of
a kind to aid the effect of supernatural phenomena: a monk in a neighboring convent, who threatened
Manfred with divine visitation for his crimes; superstitious servants, whose easy fears exaggerated
every unusual sound or foot-fall. He gave an interest to his narrative by the love passages
of Manfred's daughters which were perpetually at the mercy of the fate which hung over the
castle. He introduced his supernatural effects in the form of a gigantic gauntlet seen on the
stair-rail; a gigantic helmet which crushed the son and heir of the house as he was about to
be married and to carry out his father's hopes; a skeleton monk who urged the rightful owner
of the castle to take his own from the usurper's hands.

In attempting to make a regularly constructed narrative depend on supernatural agencies, Walpole
undoubtedly succeeded as far as success was possible. But it may be said without hesitation
that real success was unattainable. The very merits of "The Castle of Otranto" sustain this
decision. The experiment had a fair trial. The narrative of Manfred's crimes and the punishments
visited upon them, the characters and actions of subordinate personages are all managed with
skill; while the supernatural agencies are introduced at the proper times and have the expected
effects. But the real test of success in such an attempt must lie in the impression made on
the reader's mind. And this impression may be of two kinds. Let us imagine a group of young
people sitting about the dying embers of a fire on a winter's evening, listening to a ghost
story. The black darkness, the sound of the wind howling without, accord with the low tones,
the dim light, and the tale of horror within. The minds of the listeners insensibly cast off
their ordinary trains of thought, and give themselves up to the unreal impressions of the moment.
The incredible circumstances of the apparition are accepted without question or criticism;
the impression of the supernatural occurrences is alone thought of and enjoyed. But now, let
the same tale be read aloud after breakfast, from a newspaper, with the affidavits of the witnesses
of the apparition duly attached, and only laughter can be the result.

Now let us apply the same test to romance. We open the "Morte d'Arthur"; we find ourselves
at once in an unreal, almost nameless land; we meet with knights whom we only know apart by
their armor, and queens ambling through pathless forests on white palfreys; we attend brilliant
tournaments and witness superhuman deeds of arms. Our minds, untroubled by scepticism and thoughtless
of unreality, yield themselves to the poetical illusion. Who stops to think of the incredible
when Sir Bedivere hurls into the lake the dying Arthur's sword Excalibur?

But when we are introduced to the castle of Otranto, when we know its dimensions and appearance,
when we have become acquainted with its inmates, and have been made to realize that they are
flesh and blood like ourselves, we cannot receive without a shock the account of the supernatural
occurrences by which they are affected. It is as if we listened to a ghost story in the glare
of daylight, and in the full activity of our critical faculties.

    "Thou art no lawful prince," said Jerome; "thou art no prince--go,
    discuss thy claim with Frederic; and when that is done----" "It is
    done," replied Manfred; "Frederic accepts Matilda's hand, and is
    content to waive his claim, unless I have no male issue." As he
    spoke these words three drops of blood fell from the nose of
    Alfonso's statue.

"The Castle of Otranto" is an entertaining, well-constructed romance which may absorb the attention
of young people, and indeed of all readers who delight in tales of superstitious horror. But
looked upon as a work of art, it contains discordant elements. The realistic manner in which
the scene and characters are made known, the exactitude with which the incidents are combined,
are in constant opposition to that poetical ideality without which the supernatural cannot
take possession of the mind. In reading the "Morte d'Arthur" we are insensibly penetrated by
an atmosphere of the marvellous which makes a giant a natural companion, and a magic sword
a necessary part of a warrior's outfit. But Manfred and his family are so essentially human,
and their surroundings are so realistic, that the reader's sense of congruity is shocked by
the introduction of a bleeding statue or a skeleton monk.

This was evident to Miss Clara Reeve, who hoped to attain success in the attempt to unite the
romance and the novel by limiting all supernatural occurrences to the verge of probability.
It is obvious that the line would be difficult to draw. Miss Reeve drew it at ghosts. In the
"Old English Baron," she took a story similar to that of Walpole. She presented to the reader
a castle whose real owner had been murdered, and of which the rightful heir, ignorant of his
birth, lived as a dependent on the wrongful possessor. The story turned on the revelation of
the secret by the ghost of the murdered knight.

    "God defend us!" said Edmund; "but I verily believe that the person
    that owned this armor lies buried under us." Upon this a dismal,
    hollow groan was heard, as if from underneath. A solemn silence
    ensued, and marks of fear were visible upon all three; the groan
    was thrice heard.

To the average mind of the present day Clara Reeve's ghost is not less improbable and incredible
than Walpole's gigantic helmet. If the reader is prepared by the poetic nature of a narrative
for the influence of the supernatural, he will receive all marvels with equal ease; but if
he be not prepared, if his mind be occupied during the greater part of the work with actual
and ordinary occurrences, any supernatural event is rejected. Miss Reeve introduced far less
of the incredible than her predecessor, but she did not approach Walpole in the adaptation
of her scenes to supernatural effects. It requires less imagination to see a figure walk out
of a portrait in the gloomy castle of Otranto, than to hear the groan of Miss Reeve's spectre.

The incompatibility of the real and the unreal in the same work is sufficiently shown by the
course pursued by the different writers who took part in the romantic revival. Walpole had
boldly introduced a skeleton monk, and had crushed one of his characters by a gigantic helmet
which fell from the sky. Clara Reeve's sense of congruity was shocked by so strong a contrast
between the usual and the extraordinary, and therefore limited herself to a single supernatural
effect, which might inspire fear while yet remaining within the bounds of superstitious credulity.
The next and greatest contributor to the romantic revival still further modified the methods
of her predecessors, and in so modifying them, testified her doubts of their efficacy. Mrs.
Radcliffe's plan was not to summon a spectre from his resting-place and to make him move among
flesh and blood personages. She simply described the superstitious fears of her heroes and
heroines, and sought to make her reader share in them. She excited the imagination by highly
wrought scenes of horror, but instead of ascribing those scenes to the intervention of supernatural
beings, she showed them to proceed from natural causes. The terror felt, by her fictitious
characters and shared by the reader, was not so much inspired by real dangers from without,
as by superstitious fear within. The following passage will illustrate Mrs. Radcliffe's method
of dealing with the supernatural:

    From the disturbed slumber into which she then sunk, she was soon
    awakened by a noise, which seemed to arise within her chamber; but
    the silence that prevailed, as she tearfully listened, inclined her
    to believe that she had been alarmed by such sounds as sometimes
    occur in dreams, and she laid her head again upon the pillow.

    A return of the noise again disturbed her, it seemed to come from
    that part of the room which communicated with the private
    staircase, and she instantly remembered the odd circumstance of the
    door having been fastened during the preceding night by some
    unknown hand. The late alarming suspicion concerning its
    communication also occurred to her. Her heart became faint with
    terror. Half raising herself from the bed, and gently drawing aside
    the curtain, she looked toward the door of the staircase, but the
    lamp that burnt on the hearth spread so feeble a light through the
    apartment, that the remote parts of it were lost in shadow. The
    noise, however, which she was convinced came from the door,
    continued. It seemed like that made by the undrawing of rusty
    bolts, and often ceased, and was then renewed more gently, as if
    the hand that occasioned it was restrained by a fear of discovery.
    While Emily kept her eyes fixed on the spot, she saw the door move,
    and then slowly open, and perceived something enter the room, but
    the extreme duskiness prevented her perceiving what it was. Almost
    fainting with terror, she had yet sufficient command over herself
    to check the shriek that was escaping from her lips, and, letting
    the curtain drop from her hand, continued to observe in silence the
    motions of the mysterious figure she saw. It seemed to glide along
    the remote obscurity of the apartment, then paused, and, as it
    approached the hearth, she perceived, in the stronger light, what
    appeared to be a human figure. Certain remembrances now struck upon
    her heart, and almost subdued the feeble remains of her spirit. She
    continued, however, to watch the figure, which remained for some
    time motionless, but then, advancing slowly toward the bed, stood
    silently at the feet, where the curtains, being a little open,
    allowed her still to see it; terror, however, had now deprived her
    of the power of discrimination, as well as that of utterance.[201]

This scene is an excellent example of Mrs. Radcliffe's power of depicting and exciting fear.
The loneliness of Emily in the castle, her dread of real dangers inclining her mind to expect
the unreal, are shown with an art of which neither Walpole nor Reeve were capable. But, while
these writers would have introduced a real spectre as the disturber of Emily's slumber, Mrs.
Radcliffe is contented with the terror she has aroused, and hastens to explain its cause.

    Having continued there a moment, the form retreated towards the
    hearth, when it took the lamp, held it up, surveyed the chamber for
    a few moments, and then again advanced towards the bed. The light
    at that instant awakening the dog that had slept at Emily's feet,
    he barked loudly, and, jumping to the floor, flew at the stranger,
    who struck the animal smartly with a sheathed sword, and springing
    towards the bed, Emily discovered--Count Morano.

These passages afford evidence of both the strength and the weakness of Mrs. Radcliffe's work.
She chose a scene calculated to inspire horror, she subjected to its influence a lonely female,
and she then described with blood-curdling minuteness each detail which could enhance the sense
of hidden danger which it was her purpose to excite. While the reader follows such portions
of her writings, he is carried by the force and picturesqueness of Mrs. Radcliffe's language
into a condition of sympathy with the fears of the fictitious personage. But the moment that
the scene of horror is past, that the hidden danger is revealed, that, it turns out to be no
ghost but only a Count Morano, all Mrs. Radcliffe's power is required to prevent an anti-climax.
This weakness is very different from that of Walpole or Reeve. They failed to excite the feeling
of superstitious fear. Mrs. Radcliffe excited it, but she destroyed its effect by revealing
the inadequacy of its cause. The works of Walpole, Clara Reeve, and particularly of Mrs. Radcliffe,
contain very decided merits. They made a school which has found many admirers and has given
a vast deal of pleasure. But the school was founded on wrong principles and could not endure.
It is impossible for the mind to enjoy the supernatural while it is chained down to every-day
life by realistic descriptions of scenes and persons. And it is equally impossible to permanently
please by fear-inspiring narratives, when the reader is aware that all the while there is no
sufficient cause for the hero's terror.

But what Mrs. Radcliffe attempted, she carried out with a very great skill. She placed the
scenes of her narratives in Sicily, in Italy, or the south of France, and made good use of
the warm natures and vivid imaginations which are born of southern climates. Every aid which
an effective mise en scène could supply to her supernatural effects was most skilfully brought
into play. Lonely castles, secret passages, gloomy churches, and monkish superstitions,--all
were adapted to the tale of unknown dangers and fearful predicaments which Mrs. Radcliffe had
to tell. She kept up with remarkable strength a supernatural tone which insensibly aids the
imagination. In her descriptions of scenery, she chose nature in its most awe-inspiring forms,
and instilled into the reader's mind the same sense of the insignificance of man, under the
influence of which her heroes and heroines so continually remain. We are reminded of Buckle's
description of the effect of nature upon human imagination and credulity when we notice the
striking manner in which Mrs. Radcliffe moulded the surroundings of her heroes and heroines,
and made their minds susceptible to superstitious terror.

    From Beaujeu the road had constantly ascended, conducting the
    travellers into the higher regions of the air, where immense
    glaciers exhibited their frozen horrors, and eternal snow whitened
    the summits of the mountains. They often paused to contemplate
    these stupendous scenes, and, seated on some wild cliff, where only
    the ilex or the larch could flourish, looked over dark forests of
    fir, and precipices where human foot had never wandered, into the
    glen--so deep that the thunder of the torrent, which was seen to
    foam along the bottom was scarcely heard to murmur. Over these
    crags rose others of stupendous height and fantastic shape; some
    shooting into cones; others impending far over their base, in huge
    masses of granite, along whose broken ridges was often lodged a
    weight of snow, that, trembling even to the vibration of a sound,
    threatened to bear destruction in its course to the vale. Around on
    every side, far as the eye could penetrate, were seen only forms of
    grandeur the long perspective of mountain tops, tinged with
    ethereal blue, or white with snow; valleys of ice, and forests of
    gloomy fir. * * * The deep silence of these solitudes was broken
    only at intervals by the scream of the vultures, seen cowering
    round some cliff below, or by the cry of the eagle sailing high in
    the air; except when the travellers listened to the hollow thunder
    that sometimes muttered at their feet.[202]

Lewis in "The Monk," and Maturin in "The Family of Montorio," carried the principles of the
Radcliffe school beyond the verge of absurdity. Their novels are wild melodramas, the product
of distorted imaginations, in which endless horrors are mingled with gross violations of decency.
"The Monk" and "The Family of Montorio" had a great reputation in their day, and in contemporary
criticism we find their praise sung and their immortality predicted. But, while they illustrate,
on the one hand, the temporary vogue an author may acquire by highly-wrought clap-trap and
flashy flights of imagination, they show very plainly, in the oblivion which has overtaken
them, how little such characteristics avail in the race for enduring fame.

[Footnote 201: "The Mysteries of Udolpho," chap. xix.]

[Footnote 202: "The Mysteries of Udolpho," ch. iv.]

V.

At the end of the eighteenth century, the novel had become established as a popular form of
literature, and the number of its votaries had begun to assume the proportions which have since
made novelists by far the most numerous literary body. Some writers, perhaps, have been omitted
who deserved mention as much as some who have been commented upon. But all have been spoken
of, it is believed, who contributed any new ideas or methods to the art of fictitious composition.

The novel had, indeed, taken the place of the stage to a very great extent. If we compare the
productions of the dramatist with those of the novelist, as regards both quantity and merit,
during the last hundred and fifty years, we shall perceive a great preponderance in favor of
the writer of fiction. Although there are some respects in which the novel cannot compete with
the drama, there are obvious reasons why the former should be much better adapted than the
latter to modern requirements. Great changes have come over the audience. With the progress
of civilization, life has become less and less dramatic, and affords fewer striking scenes
and violent ebullitions of passion. It not only furnishes far less material for stage effects,
but also supplies little of that sympathy which the dramatist must find in the minds of his
audience. While life has become less dramatic, it has become far more complex, and requires
a broader treatment in its delineation than the restrictions of the stage can allow.

As we look back upon the fiction of the eighteenth century it is evident that the novel, like
the play, is capable of great uses and of great abuses, according to the spirit in which it
is written. In the hands of Defoe, Richardson, Fielding, Goldsmith, and Miss Burney, it reached
a high position as a work of art. It retained, indeed, much of the manner of the story of adventure,
inasmuch as the interest was more commonly made to depend on the fortunes of a chosen hero
than on the development of a well constructed plot. But "Robinson Crusoe," "Tom Jones," "The
Vicar of Wakefield," and "Evelina," are works which deserve and possess the interest of the
present time. Such books as these are to be cherished as precious legacies from the years that
have gone before. They have given, in the course of their long active circulation, an incalculable
amount of pleasure. They have supplied posterity with a picturesque view of the life and manners
of their ancestors which could not be acquired from any other source. But while the fiction
of the eighteenth century includes much that is valuable from a literary and from a historical
point of view, it includes also a great quantity of worthless and injurious writing. By far
the larger number of novels published were of a kind likely to exert an evil influence on their
readers. Their coarseness and licentiousness had a strong tendency to disseminate the morbid
thoughts and unregulated passions which dictated their production. So general was the feeling
that a work of fiction would probably contain immoral and debasing views of life, that the
novel and the novelist, were both looked upon askance. "In the republic of letters," said Miss
Burney, "there is no member of such inferior rank, or who is so much disdained by his brethren
of the quill, as the humble novelist; nor is his fate less hard in the world at large, since,
among the whole class of writers perhaps not one can be named of which the votaries are more
numerous but less respectable." Miss Edgeworth, in the beginning of the present century, felt
it necessary to call her first novel "a moral tale," because so much folly, error, and vice
are disseminated in books classed "under the denomination of novels." A great part of the fiction
of the last century, as indeed of our own time, possesses neither the value of a work of art
nor that belonging to the description and preservation of contemporary manners. Nor could the
excuse of the amusement they afforded be called up in their favor. No amusement is worth having
which is not healthy and innocent. The general prejudice which formerly existed against novels
very much lessened their circulation, and lessened the evil done by licentious productions.
Careful parents did not allow a novel in their children's hands which had not passed an examination--a
precaution now too generally neglected.

But notwithstanding all the trash, and worse than trash, which has gone into circulation under
the broad and attractive term of novel, it is evident that the English speaking public on both
sides of the Atlantic demand purity in the works of fiction which are submitted to its judgment.
While no literary work can present a greater claim to permanent favor than a really good novel,
none is more certain to be quite ephemeral than a bad one, whether its badness consist in the
manner or the matter. For more than a hundred years "The Vicar of Wakefield" has held its own,
while hundreds of novels which created more sensation at the time of their appearance have
fallen into everlasting oblivion. And this triumph is not only due to literary excellence,
but to the human excellence of the conception which Goldsmith gave to the world.

CHAPTER VIII.

   I.--THE NOVEL IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
  II.--THE NOVEL OF LIFE AND MANNERS.
 III.--OF SCOTCH LIFE.
  IV.--OF IRISH LIFE.
   V.--OF ENGLISH LIFE.
  VI.--OF AMERICAN LIFE.
 VII.--THE HISTORICAL NOVEL.
VIII.--THE NOVEL OF PURPOSE.
  IX.--THE NOVEL OF FANCY.
   X.--USE AND ABUSE OF FICTION.

I.

Fiction has absorbed so much of the literary talent of the present century, and has attained
so important a place in the lives and thoughts of the reading public, that, in this chapter,
we will attempt a description of its varied forms, and an inquiry into its uses and abuses,
rather than an extended criticism of individual writers. Allibone's "Dictionary of Authors"
contains two thousand two hundred and fifty-seven names of writers of fiction, by far the greater
number of which belong to the nineteenth century, and every year adds to the list.

There is no better example of the closeness of the connection between society and its literature
than is supplied by the novel. Every change in the public taste has been followed by a corresponding
variety of fiction, until it is difficult to enumerate all the schools into which novelists
have divided themselves. During the present century, life has become far more complex and the
reading public far more exacting, varied, and extended than ever before. Steam and electricity
have brought distant countries into close communion, and have awakened a feeling of fellowship
among the different nations of the civilised world which has greatly widened the horizon of
human interests. The spread of education, the increase and distribution of wealth, together
with the cheapness of printing, have largely increased the number and variety of those who
seek entertainment from works of fiction. The novel-reader is no longer content with the description
of scenes and characters among which his own life is passed. He wishes to be introduced to
foreign countries, to past ages, and to societies and ranks apart from his own. He wishes also
to find in fiction the reflection of his own tastes and the discussion of his own interests.
He seeks psychology, or study of character, or the excitement of a complicated plot, or the
details and events of sea-faring, criminal, or fashionable life. All of these different tastes
the novelist has undertaken to gratify.

Under the extensive head of the novel of life and manners, the habits, modes of thought, and
peculiarities of language of Scotland, Ireland, England, and the United States, with many sub-divisions
of provinces and cities, have been studied and described. The novelist has extended his investigations
into Eastern countries, and has portrayed the customs and institutions of Oriental life. He
has taken his characters from historic times, and has recommended the past for the instruction
or amusement of the present. The experience of the soldier and the sailor have taken their
place among the incidents of fiction; the adventures and crimes of blacklegs and convicts have
been drawn upon to gratify palates sated with the weak pabulum of the fashionable novel.

