It seemed to me that my mother was the person who really could have been excused for having
heart trouble.  The more I watched her, the more I wondered that she didn't.  There was her
own life, the one she and father led, where everything went exactly as she wanted it to; and
if there had been only themselves to think of, no people on earth could have lived happier,
unless the pain she sometimes suffered made them trouble, and I don't think it would, for neither
of them were to blame for that.  They couldn't help it.  They just had it to stand, and fight
the stiffest they could to cure it, and mother always said she was better; every single time
any one asked, she was better.  I hoped soon it would all be gone.  Then they could have been
happy for sure, if some of us hadn't popped up and kept them in hot water all the time.

I can't tell you about Laddie when he came back from Pryors'.  He tore down the house, then
tore it up, and then threw around the pieces, and none of us cared.  Every one was just laughing,
shouting, and every bit as pleased as he was, while I was the Queen Bee.  Laddie said so, himself,
and if he didn't know, no one did.  Pryors had been lovely to him.  When mother asked him how
he made it, he answered:  "I rode over, picked up the Princess and helped myself.  After I
finished, I remembered the little unnecessary formality of asking her to marry me; and she
said right out loud that she WOULD.  When I had time for them, I reached Father and Mother
Pryor, and maybe it doesn't show, but somewhere on my person I carry their blessing, genially
and heartily given, I am proud to state.  Now, I'm only needing yours, to make me a king among
men."

They gave it quite as willingly, I am sure, although you could see mother scringe when Laddie
said "Father and Mother Pryor."  I knew why. She adored Laddie, like the Bible says you must
adore the Almighty. From a tiny baby Laddie had taken care of her.  He used to go back, take
her hand, and try to help her over rough places while he still wore dresses.  Straight on,
he had been like that; always seeing when there was too much work and trying to shield her;
always knowing when a pain was coming and fighting to head it off; always remembering the things
the others forgot, going to her last at night, and his face against hers on her pillow the
first in the morning, to learn how she was before he left the house.  If you were the mother
of a man like that, how would you like to hear him call some one else mother, and have the
word slip from his tongue so slick you could see he didn't even realize that he had used it?
The answer would be, if you were honest, that you wouldn't have liked it any more than she
did.  She knew he had to go.  She wanted him to be happy.  She was as sure of the man he was
going to be as she was sure of the mercy of God.  That is the strongest way I know to tell
it.  She was unshakably sure of the mercy of God, but I wasn't.  There were times when it seemed
as if He couldn't hear the most powerful prayer you could pray, and when instead of mercy,
you seemed to get the last torment that could be piled on. Take right now.  Laddie was happy,
and all of us were, in a way; and in another we were almost stiff with misery.

I dreaded his leaving us so, I would slip to the hawk oak and cry myself sick, more than once;
whether any of the others were that big babies I don't know; but anyway, THEY were not his
Little Sister.  I was.  I always had been.  I always would be, for that matter; but there was
going to be a mighty big difference.  I had the poor comfort that I'd done the thing myself.
Maybe if it hadn't been for stopping the Princess when I took him that pie, they never would
have made up, and she might have gone across the sea and stayed there.  Maybe she'd go yet,
as mysteriously as she had come, and take him along.  Sometimes I almost wished I hadn't tried
to help him; but of course I didn't really.  Then, too, I had sense enough to know that loving
each other as they did, they wouldn't live on that close together for years and years, and
not find a way to make up for themselves, like they had at the start.

I liked Laddie saying I had made his happiness for him; but I wasn't such a fool that I didn't
know he could have made it for himself just as well, and no doubt better.  So everything was
all right with Laddie; and what happened to us, the day he rode away for the last time, when
he went to stay--what happened to us, then, was our affair.  We had to take it, but every one
of us dreaded it, while mother didn't know how to bear it, and neither did I.  Once I said
to her:  "Mother, when Laddie goes we'll just have to make it up to each other the best we
can, won't we?"

"Oh my soul, child!" she cried, staring at me so surprised-like.  "Why, how unspeakably selfish
I have been!  No little lost sheep ever ran this farm so desolate as you will be without your
brother.  Forgive me baby, and come here!"

Gee, but we did cry it out together!  The God she believed in has wiped away her tears long
ago; this minute I can scarcely see the paper for mine.  If you could call anything happiness,
that was mixed with feeling like that, why, then, we were happy about Laddie.  But from things
I heard father and mother say, I knew they could have borne his going away, and felt a trifle
better than they did.  I was quite sure they had stopped thinking that he was going to lose
his soul, but they couldn't help feeling so long as that old mystery hung over Pryors that
he might get into trouble through it.  Father said if it hadn't been for Mr. Pryor's stubborn
and perverted notions about God, he would like the man immensely, and love to be friends; and
if Laddie married into the family we would have to be as friendly as we could anyway.  He said
he had such a high opinion of Mr. Pryor's integrity that he didn't believe he'd encourage Laddie
to enter his family if it would involve the boy in serious trouble.  Mother didn't know.  Anyway,
the thing was done, and by fall, no doubt, Laddie would leave us.

Just when we were trying to keep a stiff upper lip before him, and whistling as hard as ever
he had, to brace our courage, a letter came for mother from the head of the music school Shelley
attended, saying she was no longer fit for work, so she was being sent home at once, and they
would advise us to consult a specialist immediately.  Mother sat and stared at father, and
father went to hitch the horses to drive to Groveville.

There's only one other day of my life that stands out as clearly as that.  The house was clean
as we could make it.  I finished feeding early, and had most of the time to myself.  I went
down to the Big Hill, and followed the top of it to our woods.  Then I turned around, and started
toward the road, just idling.  If I saw a lovely spot I sat down and watched all around me
to see if a Fairy really would go slipping past, or lie asleep under a leaf.  I peeked and
peered softly, going from spot to spot, watching everything.  Sometimes I hung over the water,
and studied tiny little fish with red, yellow, and blue on them, bright as flowers.  The dragonflies
would alight right on me, and some wore bright blue markings and some blood red.  There was
a blue beetle, a beautiful green fly, and how the blue wasps did flip, flirt and glint in the
light.  So did the blackbirds and the redwings.  That embankment was left especially to shade
the water, and to feed the birds.  Every foot of it was covered with alders, wild cherry, hazelbush,
mulberries, everything having a berry or nut.  There were several scrub apple trees, many red
haws, the wild strawberries spread in big beds in places, and some of them were colouring.

Wild flowers grew everywhere, great beds were blue with calamus, and the birds flocked in companies
to drive away the water blacksnakes that often found nests, and liked eggs and bird babies.
When I came to the road at last, the sun was around so the big oak on the top of the hill threw
its shadow across the bridge, and I lay along one edge and watched the creek bottom, or else
I sat up so the water flowed over my feet, and looked at the embankment and the sky.  In a
way, it was the most peculiar day of my life.  I had plenty to think of, but I never thought
at all.  I only lived.  I sat watching the world go past through a sort of golden haze the
sun made.  When a pair of kingbirds and three crows chased one of my hawks pell-mell across
the sky, I looked on and didn't give a cent what happened.  When a big blacksnake darted its
head through sweet grass and cattails, and caught a frog that had climbed on a mossy stone
in the shade to dine on flies, I let it go.  Any other time I would have hunted a stick and
made the snake let loose.  To-day I just sat there and let things happen as they did.

At last I wandered up the road, climbed the back garden fence, and sat on the board at the
edge of a flowerbed, and to-day, I could tell to the last butterfly about that garden: what
was in bloom, how far things had grown, and what happened.  Bobby flew under the Bartlett pear
tree and crowed for me, but I never called him.  I sat there and lived on, and mostly watched
the bees tumble over the bluebells.  They were almost ready to be cut to put in the buttered
tumblers for perfume, like mother made for us.  Then I went into the house and looked at Grace
Greenwood, but I didn't take her along.  Mother came past and gave me a piece of stiff yellow
brocaded silk as lovely as I ever had seen, enough for a dress skirt; and a hand-embroidered
chemise sleeve that only needed a band and a button to make a petticoat for a Queen doll, but
I laid them away and wandered into the orchard.

I dragged my bare feet through the warm grass, and finally sat under the beet red peach tree.
If ever I seemed sort of lost and sorry for myself, that was a good place to go; it was so
easy to feel abused there because you didn't dare touch those peaches.  Fluffy baby chickens
were running around, but I didn't care; there was more than a bird for every tree, bluebirds
especially; they just loved us and came early and stayed late, and grew so friendly they nested
all over the wood house, smoke house, and any place we fixed for them, and in every hollow
apple limb.  Bobby came again, but I didn't pay any attention to him.

Then I heard the carriage cross the bridge.  I knew when it was father, every single time his
team touched the first plank.  So I ran like an Indian, and shinned up a cedar tree, scratching
myself until I bled. Away up I stood on a limb, held to the tree and waited.  Father drove
to the gate, and mother came out, with May, Candace, and Leon following.  When Shelley touched
the ground and straightened, any other tree except a spruce having limbs to hold me up, I would
have fallen from it.  She looked exactly as if she had turned to tombstone with eyes and hair
alive.  She stopped a second to brush a little kiss across mother's lips, to the others she
said without even glancing at them:  "Oh do let me lie down a minute!  The motion of that train
made me sick."

Well, I should say it did!  I quit living, and began thinking in a hooray, and so did every
one else at our house.  Once I had been sick and queened it over them for a while, now all
of us strained ourselves trying to wait on Shelley; but she wouldn't have it.  She only said
she was tired to death, to let her rest, and she turned her face to the wall and lay there.
Once she said she never wanted to see a city again so long as she lived.  When mother told
her about Laddie and the Princess to try to interest her, she never said a word; I doubted
if she even listened.  Father and mother looked at each other, when they thought no one would
see, and their eyes sent big, anxious questions flashing back and forth.  I made up my mind
I'd keep awake that night and hear what they said, if I had to take pins to bed with me and
stick myself.

Once mother said to Shelley that she was going to send for Dr. Fenner, and she answered:  "All
right, if you need him.  Don't you dare for me! I'll not see him.  All I want is a little peace
and rest."

The idea!  Not one of us ever had spoken to mother like that before in all our born days. 
I held my breath to see what she would do, but she didn't seem to have heard it, or to notice
how rude it had been.  Well, THAT told about as plain as anything what we had on our hands.
I wandered around and NOW there was no trouble about thinking things. They came in such a jumble
I could get no sense from them; but one big black thought came over, and over, and over, and
wouldn't be put away. It just stood, stayed, forced you, and made you look it in the face.
If Shelley weren't stopped quickly she was going up on the hill with the little fever and whooping
cough sisters.  There it was!  You could try to think other things, to play, to work, to talk
it down in the pulpit, to sing it out in a tree, to slide down the haystack away from it--there
it stayed!  And every glimpse you had of Shelley made it surer.

There was no trouble about keeping awake that night; I couldn't sleep. I stood at the window
and looked down the Big Hill through the soft white moonlight, and thought about it, and then
I thought of mother.  I guess NOW you see what kind of things mothers have to face.  All day
she had gone around doing her work, every few minutes suggesting some new thing for one of
us to try, or trying it herself; all day she had talked and laughed, and when Sarah Hood came
she told her she thought Shelley must be bilious, that she had travelled all night and was
sleeping: but she would be up the first place she went, and then they talked all over creation
and Mrs. Hood went home and never remembered that she hadn't seen Shelley.  She worked Mrs.
Freshett off the same way, but you could see she was almost too tired to do it, so by night
she was nearly as white as Shelley, yet keeping things going.  When the house was still, she
came into the room, and stood at the window as I had, until father entered, then she turned,
and I could see they were staring at each other in the moonlight, as they had all day.

"She's sick?" asked father, at last.

"Heartsick!" said mother bitterly.

"We'd better have Doc come?"

"She says she isn't sick, and she won't see him."

"She will if I put my foot down."

"Best not, Paul!  She'll feel better soon.  She's so young!  She must get over it."

They were silent for a long time and then father asked in a harsh whisper:  "Ruth, can she
possibly have brought us to shame?"

"God forbid!" cried mother.  "Let us pray."

Then those two people knelt on each side of that bed, and I could hear half the words they
muttered, until I was wild enough to scream.  I wished with all my heart that I hadn't listened.
I had always known it was no nice way.  I must have gone to sleep after a while, but when I
woke up I was still thinking about it, and to save me, I couldn't quit. All day, wherever I
went, that question of father's kept going over in my head.  I thought about it until I was
almost crazy, and I just couldn't see where anything about shame came in.

She was only mistaken.  She THOUGHT he loved her, and he didn't.  She never could have been
so bloomy, so filled with song, laughter, and lovely like she was, if she hadn't truly believed
with all her heart that he loved her.  Of course it would almost finish her to give him up,
when she felt like that; and maybe she did wrong to let herself care so much, before she was
sure about him; but that would only be foolish, there wouldn't be even a shadow of shame about
it.  Besides, Laddie had done exactly the same thing.  He loved the Princess until it nearly
killed him when he thought he had to give her up, and he loved her as hard as ever he could,
when he hadn't an idea whether she would love him back, even a tiny speck; and the person who
wasn't foolish, and never would be, was Laddie.

The more I thought, the worse I got worked up, and I couldn't see how Shelley was to blame
for anything at all.  Love just came to her, like it came to Laddie.  She would hardly have
knelt down and beseeched the Lord to make her fall in love with a man she scarcely knew, and
when she couldn't be sure what he was going to do about it--not the Lord, the man, I mean.
You could see for yourself she wouldn't do that.  I finished my work, and then I tried to do
things for her, and she wouldn't let me.  Mother told me to ask her to make Grace Greenwood
the dress she had promised when I was so sick; so I took the Scotch plaid to her and reminded
her, and she pushed me away and said:  "Some time!"

I even got Grace, and showed Shelley the spills on her dress, and how badly she needed a new
one, but she never looked, she said: "Oh bother! My head aches.  Do let me be!"

Mother was listening.  I could see her standing outside the door.

She motioned to me to come away, so I went to her and she was white as Shelley.  She was sick
too, she couldn't say a word for a minute, but after a while she kissed me, I could feel the
quivers in her lips, and she said stifflike:  "Never mind, she'll be better soon, then she
will! Run play now!"

Sometimes I wandered around looking at things and living dully.  I didn't try to study out
anything, but I must have watched closer than I knew, for every single thing I saw then, over
that whole farm, I can shut my eyes and see to-day; everything, from the old hawk tilting his
tail to steer him in soaring, to a snake catching field mice in the grass, lichens on the fence,
flowers, butterflies, every single thing. Mostly I sat to watch something that promised to
become interesting, and before I knew it, I was back on the shame question.  That's the most
dreadful word in the dictionary.  There's something about it that makes your face burn, only
to have it in your mind.

Laddie said he never had met any man who knew the origin of more words than father.  He could
even tell every clip what nationality a man was from his name.  Hundreds of time I have heard
him say to stranger people, "From your name you'd be of Scotch extraction," or Irish, or whatever
it was, and every time the person he was talking with would say, "Yes."  Some day away out
in the field, alone, I thought I would ask him what people first used the word "shame," and
just exactly what it did mean, and what the things were that you could do that would make the
people who loved you until they would die for you, ashamed of you.

Thinking about that and planning out what it was that I wanted to know, gave me another idea.
Why not ask her?  She was the only one who knew what she had done away there in the city, alone
among strangers; I wasn't sure whether all the music a girl could learn was worth letting her
take the chances she would have to in a big city.  From the way Laddie and father hated them,
they were a poor place for men, and they must have been much worse for girls.  Shelley knew,
why not ask HER? Maybe I could coax her to tell me, and it would make my life much easier to
know; and only think what was going on in father's and mother's heads and hearts, when I felt
that way, and didn't even know what there was to be ashamed about.  She wouldn't any more than
slap me; and sick as she was, I made up my mind not to get angry at her, or ever to tell, if
she did.  I'd rather have her hit me when she was so sick than to have Sally beat me until
she couldn't strike another lick, just because she was angry.  But I forgave her that, and
I was never going to think of it again--only I did.

Mother kept sending Leon to the post-office, and she met him at the gate half the time herself
and fairly snatched the letters from his hands.  Hum!  She couldn't pull the wool over my eyes.
I knew she hoped somehow, some way, there would be a big fat one with Paget, Legal Adviser,
or whatever a Chicago lawyer puts on his envelopes.  Jerry's just say:  "Attorney at Law."

No letter ever came that had Paget in the corner, or anything happened that did Shelley any
good.  Far otherwise!  Just before supper Leon came from Groveville one evening, and all of
us could see at a glance that he had been crying like a baby.  He had wiped up, and was trying
to hold in, but he was killed, next.  I nearly said, "Well, for heaven's sake, another!" when
I saw him.  He slammed down a big, long envelope, having printing on it, before father, and
glared at it as if he wanted to tear it to smithereens, and he said:  "If you want to know
why it looks like that, I buried it under a stone once; but I had to go back, and then I threw
it as far as I could send it, into Ditton's gully, but after a while I hunted it up again!"

Then he keeled over on the couch mother keeps for her in the dining-room, and sobbed until
he looked like he'd come apart.

Of course all of us knew exactly what that letter was from the way he acted.  Mother had told
him, time and again, not to set his heart so; father had, too and Laddie, and every one of
us, but that little half-Arab, half-Kentucky mare was the worst temptation a man who loved
horses could possibly have; and while father and mother stopped at good work horses, and matched
roadsters for the carriage, they managed to prize and tend them so that every one of us had
been born horse-crazy, and we had been allowed to ride, care for, and taught to love horses
all our lives.  Treat a horse ugly, and we'd have gone on the thrashing floor ourselves.

Father laid the letter face down, his hand on it, and shook his head. "This is too bad!" he
said.  "It's a burning shame, but the money, the exact amount, was taken from a farmer in Medina
County, Ohio, by a traveller he sheltered a few days, because he complained of a bad foot.
The description of the man who robbed us is perfect.  The money was from the sale of some prize
cattle.  It will have to be returned."

"Just let me see the letter a minute," said Laddie.

He read it over thoughtfully.  He was long enough about it to have gone over it three times;
then he looked at Leon, and his forehead creased in a deep frown.  The tears slid down mother's
cheeks, but she didn't know it, or else she'd have wiped them away.  She was never mussy about
the least little thing.

"Father!" she said.  "Father----!"

That was as far as she could go.

"The man must have his money," said father, "but we'll look into this----"

He pushed back the plates and tablecloth, and cleared his end of the table.  Mother never budged
to stack the plates, or straighten the cloth so it wouldn't be wrinkled.  Then father brought
his big account book from the black walnut chest in our room, some little books, and papers,
sharpened a pencil and began going up and down the columns and picking out figures here and
there that he set on a piece of paper.  I never had seen him look either old or tired before;
but he did then. Mother noticed it too, for her lips tightened, she lifted her head, wiped
her eyes, and pretended that she felt better.  Laddie said something about doing the feeding,
and slipped out.  Just then Shelley came into the room, stopped, and looked questioningly at
us.  Her eyes opened wide, and she stared hard at Leon.

"Why what ails him?" she asked mother.

"You remember what I wrote you about a man who robbed us, and the money Leon was to have, provided
no owner was found in a reasonable time; and the horse the boy had planned to buy, and how
he had been going to Pryors'--Oh, I think he's slipped over there once a day, and often three
times, all this spring!  Mr. Pryor encouraged him, let him take his older horses to practise
on, even went out and taught him cross-country riding himself----"

"I remember!" said Shelley.

Leon sobbed out loud.  Shelley crossed the room swiftly, dropped beside him and whispered something
in his ear.  Quick as a shot his arm reached out and went around her.  She hid her head deep
in the pillow beside him, and they went to pieces together.  Clear to pieces!  Pretty soon
father had to take off his glasses and wipe them so he could see the figures.  Mother took
one long look at him, a short one at Leon and Shelley, then she arose, her voice as even and
smooth, and she said: "While you figure, father, I'll see about supper.  I have tried to plan
an extra good one this evening."

She left the room.  NOW, I guess you know about all I can tell you of mother!  I can't see
that there's a thing left.  That was the kind of soldier she was.  Talk about Crusaders, and
a good fight!  All the blood of battle in our family wasn't on father's side, not by any means!
The Dutch could fight too!

Father's pencil scraped a little, a bee that had slipped in buzzed over the apple butter, while
the clock ticked as if it used a hammer.  It was so loud one wanted to pitch it from the window.
May and I sat still as mice when the cat is near.  Candace couldn't keep away from the kitchen
door to save her, and where mother went I hadn't an idea, but she wasn't getting an extra good
supper.  Shelley and Leon were quieter now.  May nudged me, and I saw that his arm around her
was gripping her tight, while her hand on his head was patting him and fingering his hair.

Ca-lumph!  Ca-lumph! came the funniest sound right on the stone walk leading to the east door,
then a shrill whicker that made father drop his pencil.  Leon was on his feet, Shelley beside
him, while at the door stood Laddie grinning as if his face would split, and with her forefeet
on the step and her nose in the room, stood the prettiest, the very prettiest horse I ever
saw.  She was sticking her nose toward Leon, whinnying softly, as she lifted one foot, and
if Laddie hadn't backed her, she would have walked right into the dining-room.

"Come on, Weiscope, she's yours!" said Laddie.  "Take her to the barn, and put her in one of
the cow stalls, until we fix a place for her."

Leon crossed the room, but he never touched the horse.  He threw his arms around Laddie's neck.

"Son!  Son!  Haven't you let your feelings run away with you?  What does this mean?" asked
father sternly.

"There's nothing remarkable in a big six-footer like me buying a horse," said Laddie.  "I expect
to purchase a number soon, and without a cent to pay, in the bargain.  I contracted to give
five hundred dollars for this mare.  She is worth more; but that should be satisfactory all
around.  I am going to earn it by putting five of Mr. Pryor's fancy, pedigreed horses in shape
for market, taking them personally, and selling them to men fit to own and handle real horses.
I get one hundred each, and my expenses for the job.  I'll have as much fun doing it as I ever
had at anything.  It suits me far better than plowing, even."

Mother entered the room at a sweep, and pushed Leon aside.

"Oh you man of my heart!" she cried.  "You man after my own heart!"

Laddie bent and kissed her, holding her tight as he looked over her head at father.

"It's all right, of course?" he said.

"I never have known of anything quite so altogether right," said father.  "Thank you, lad,
and God bless you!"

He took Laddie's hand, and almost lifted him from the floor, then he wiped his glasses, gathered
up his books with a big, deep breath of relief, and went into his room.  If the others had
looked to see why he was gone so long, they would have seen him on his knees beside his bed
thanking God, as usual.  Leon couldn't have come closer than when he said, "The same yesterday,
to-day, and forever," about father.

Leon had his arms around the neck of his horse now, and he was kissing her, patting her, and
explaining to Shelley just why no other horse was like her.  He was pouring out a jumble all
about the oasis of the desert, the tent dwellers, quoting lines from "The Arab to His Horse,"
bluegrass, and gentleness combined with spirit, while Shelley had its head between her hands,
stroking it and saying, "Yes," to every word Leon told her.  Then he said: "Just hop on her
back from that top step and ride her to the barn, if you want to see the motion she has."

Shelley said:  "Has a woman ever been on her back?  Won't she shy at my skirts?"

"No," explained Leon.  "I've been training her with a horse blanket pinned around me, so Susie
could ride her!  She'll be all right."

So Shelley mounted, and the horse turned her head, and tried to rub against her, as she walked
away, tame as a sheep.  I wondered if she could be too gentle.  If she went "like the wind,"
as Leon said, it didn't show then.  I was almost crazy to go along, and maybe Leon would let
me ride a little while; but I had a question that it would help me to know the answer and I
wanted to ask father before I forgot; so I waited until he came out.  When he sat down, smiled
at me and said, "Well, is the girl happy for brother?"  I knew it was a good time, and I could
ask anything I chose, so I sat on his knee and said:  "Father, when you pray for anything that
it's all perfectly right for you to have, does God come down from heaven and do it Himself,
or does He send a man like Laddie to do it for him?"

Father hugged me tight, smiling the happiest.

"Why, you have the whole thing right there in a nutshell, Little Sister," he said.  "You see
it's like this: the Book tells us most distinctly that 'God is love.'  Now it was love that
sent Laddie to bind himself for a long, tedious job, to give Leon his horse, wasn't it?"

"Of course!" I said.  "He wouldn't have been likely to do it if he hated him.  It was love,
of course!"

"Then it was God," said father, "because 'God is love.'  They are one and the same thing."

Then he kissed me, and THAT was settled.  So I wondered when you longed for anything so hard
you really felt it was worth bothering God about, whether the quickest way to get it was to
ask Him for it, or to try to put a lot of love into the heart of some person who could do what
you wanted.  I decided it all went back to God though, for most of the time probably we wouldn't
know who the right one was to try to awaken love in.  I was mighty sure none of us ever dreamed
Laddie could walk over to Pryors', and come back with that horse, in a way perfectly satisfactory
to every one, slick as an eel.

You should have seen Leon following around after Laddie, trying to do things for him, taking
on his work to give him more time with the horses, getting up early to finish his own stunts,
so he could go over to Pryors' and help.  Mother said it had done more to make a man of him
than anything that ever happened.  It helped Shelley, too.  Something seemed to break in her,
when she cried so with Leon, because he was in trouble.  Then he was so crazy to show off his
horse he had Shelley ride up and down the lane, while he ran along and led, so she got a lot
of exercise, and it made her good and hungry.  If you don't think by this time that my mother
was the beatenest woman alive, I'll prove it to you.  When the supper bell rang there was strawberry
preserves instead of the apple butter, biscuit, fried chicken, and mashed potatoes.

She must have slapped those chickens into the skillet before they knew their heads were off.
When Shelley came to the table, for the first time since she'd been home, had pink in her cheeks,
and talked some, and ate too, mother forgot her own supper.  She fumbled over her plate, but
scarcely touched even the livers, and those delicious little kidneys in the tailpiece like
Leon and I had at Sally's wedding.  When we finished, and it was time for her to give the signal
to arise, no one had asked to be excused, she said:  "Let us have a word with the Most High."
Then she bowed her head, so all of us did too.  "O Lord, we praise Thee for all Thy tender
mercies, and all Thy loving kindness. Amen!"

Of course father always asked the blessing to begin with, and mostly it was the same one, and
that was all at meal time, but this was a little extra that mother couldn't even wait until
night to tell the Almighty, she was so pleased with Him.  Maybe I haven't told everything about
her, after all.  Father must have thought that was lovely of her; he surely felt as happy as
she did, to see Shelley better, for he hugged and kissed her over and over, finishing at her
neck like he always did, and then I be hanged, if he didn't hug and kiss every last one of
us--tight, even the boys.  Shelley he held long and close, and patted her a little when he
let her go.  It made me wonder if the rest of us didn't get ours, so he'd have a chance at
her without her noticing it. One thing was perfectly clear.  If shame came to us, they were
going to love her, and stick tight to her right straight through it.

Now that everything was cleared up so, Shelley seemed a little more like herself every day,
although it was bad enough yet; I thought I might as well hurry up the end a little, and stop
the trouble completely, so I began watching for a chance to ask her.  But I wanted to get her
away off alone, so no one would see if she slapped me.  I didn't know how long I'd have to
wait.  I tried coaxing her to the orchard to see a bluebird's nest, but she asked if bluebirds
were building any different that year, and I had to admit they were not. Then I tried the blue-eyed
Mary bed, but she said she supposed it was still under the cling peach tree, and the flower,
two white petals up, two blue down, and so it was.  Just as I was beginning to think I'd have
to take that to the Lord in prayer, I got my chance by accident.

May and Candace were forever going snake hunting.  You would think any one with common sense
would leave them alone and be glad of the chance, but no indeed!  They went nearly every day
as soon as the noon work was finished, and stayed until time to get supper.  They did have
heaps of fun and wild excitement.  May was gentle, and tender with everything else on earth;
so I 'spose she had a right to bruise the serpent with her heel--really she used sticks and
stones--if she wanted to.  I asked her how she COULD, and she said there was a place in the
Bible that told how a snake coaxed Eve to eat an apple, that the Lord had told her she mustn't
touch; and so she got us into most of the trouble there was in the world.  May said it was
all the fault of the SNAKE to begin with, and she meant to pay up every one she could find,
because she had none of the apple, and lots of the trouble.  Candace cried so much because
Frederick Swartz had been laid in the tomb, that mother was pleased to have her cheer up, even
enough to go snake hunting.

