WRITING THE PHOTOPLAY

by

J. BERG ESENWEIN Editor of "The Writer's Monthly"

and

ARTHUR LEEDS Late Editor of Scripts, Edison Studio

The Writer's Library Edited by J. Berg Esenwein

Revised Edition

The Home Correspondence School Springfield, Mass. Publishers Copyright 1913 Copyright 1919
The Home Correspondence School All Rights Reserved

Table of Contents

                                                       Page

CHAPTER I--WHAT IS A PHOTOPLAY?                           1

CHAPTER II--WHO CAN WRITE PHOTOPLAYS?                     5

CHAPTER III--PHOTOPLAY TERMS                             17

CHAPTER IV--THE PHOTOPLAY SCRIPT: ITS COMPONENT PARTS                                          29

CHAPTER V--A SAMPLE PHOTOPLAY FORM                       34

CHAPTER VI--THE MECHANICAL PREPARATION OF THE SCRIPT                                            55

CHAPTER VII--THE TITLE                                   72

CHAPTER VIII--THE SYNOPSIS OF THE PLOT                   87

CHAPTER IX--THE CAST OF CHARACTERS                      111

CHAPTER X--THE SCENARIO OR CONTINUITY                   131

CHAPTER XI--THE SCENE-PLOT AND ITS PURPOSE              204

CHAPTER XII--THE USE AND ABUSE OF LEADERS, LETTERS AND OTHER INSERTS                      
218

CHAPTER XIII--THE PHOTOPLAY STAGE AND ITS PHYSICAL LIMITATIONS                            
245

CHAPTER XIV--HOW TO GATHER IDEAS FOR PLOTS                                                   255

CHAPTER XV--WHAT YOU CANNOT WRITE                       267

CHAPTER XVI--WHAT YOU SHOULD NOT WRITE                                                   282

CHAPTER XVII--WHAT YOU SHOULD WRITE                     304

CHAPTER XVIII--THE TREATMENT OF COMEDY                  324

CHAPTER XIX--GETTING THE NEW TWIST                      347

CHAPTER XX--COMPLETE FIVE-REEL PHOTOPLAY SCRIPT--"EVERYBODY'S GIRL"                       
363

CHAPTER XXI--MARKETING THE PHOTOPLAY SCRIPT                                                  408

APPENDIX A                                              416

APPENDIX B                                              417

GENERAL INDEX                                           418

List of Illustrations

The Lasky Studio of the Famous Players-Lasky Corporation, Hollywood, California           
Frontispiece

                                                       Page

Producing a Big Scene in the Selig Yard

Film-Drying Room in a Film Factory                        8

Essanay Producing Yard; Two Interior Sets Being Arranged for a Historical Drama

Players Waiting for their Cues in the Glass-Enclosed Selig Studio                         
58

Paint Frame on Which Scenery is Painted

Checking "Extras" Used in Rex Beach's Photodrama, "The Brand"                             
108

View of Stage, Lubin Studio, Los Angeles, California

Wardrobe Room in a Photoplay Studio                     158

The Reception of King Robert of Sicily by His Brother, the Pope

Same Set, with Players Getting Ready for Action         208

William S. Hart with Part of His Supporting Company

Harry Beaumont Directing Fight Scene in "A Man and His Money"                             
258

Arrangement of Electric Lights in a Photoplay Studio

An Actor's Dressing Room in the Selig Studio            308

Preparing to Take Three Scenes at Once in a Daylight Studio                               
358

CHAPTER I

WHAT IS A PHOTOPLAY?

As its title indicates, this book aims to teach the theory and practice of photoplay construction.
This we shall attempt by first pointing out its component parts, and then showing how these
parts are both constructed and assembled so as to form a strong, well-built, attractive and
salable manuscript.

The Photoplay Defined and Differentiated

A photoplay is a story told largely in pantomime by players, whose words are suggested by their
actions, assisted by certain descriptive words thrown on the screen, and the whole produced
by a moving-picture machine.

It should be no more necessary to say that not all moving-picture productions are photoplays
than that not all prose is fiction, yet the distinction must be emphasized. A photoplay is
to the program of a moving-picture theatre just what a short-story is to the contents of a
popular magazine--it supplies the story-telling or drama element. A few years ago the managers
of certain theatres used so to arrange their programs that for four or five days out of every
week the pictures they showed would consist entirely of photoplays. On such days their programs
corresponded exactly to the contents-page of an all-fiction magazine--being made up solely
to provide entertainment. The all-fiction magazine contains no essays, critical papers, or
special articles, for the instruction of the reader, beyond the information and instruction
conveyed to him while interestedly perusing the stories. Just so, the all-photoplay program
in a picture theatre, at the time of which we speak, was one made up entirely of either "dramatic"[1]
or "comedy" subjects. Films classified as "scenic," "educational," "vocational," "industrial,"
"sporting," and "topical," were not included in such a program.

[Footnote 1: The photoplay has come to have a language of its own, which we must observe even
when, as in this case, we lose somewhat in finer word-values. In their lists of releases (photoplays
released or made available for public presentation at a specified date), manufacturers usually
classify as "comedy" subjects all photoplays which are without any serious dramatic moments
or situations. Thus, in the lists of releases published in the various trade journals, what
are obviously "comedy-dramas"--some of them, such as certain of the Douglas Fairbanks productions,
even bordering on farce--are classed as "dramatic" subjects, and this, apparently, because
they are strongly dramatic in certain scenes. Thus, again, genuine farce (as distinguished
from "slap-stick" comedy), social comedy, burlesque and extravaganza are all classed under
the head of "comedy," just as comedy-drama, tragedy, melodrama, and historical plays are classed
as "dramatic." These two broad classifications will be used throughout this work except where
finer distinctions are needed in order to treat varieties of subjects. The regular spoken play
naturally invites these distinctions more than does the photoplay, at least at present. In
preparing your manuscript, however, you will be taught to follow the accepted form among photoplaywrights
and, in writing the synopsis, after the title, specify the class of subject, as "dramatic photoplay,"
"farce," "comedy-drama," "historical drama," "society drama," etc.]

True, a genuine photoplay may contain scenes and incidents which would almost seem to justify
its being included in one of the foregoing classes. One might ask, for instance, why Selig's
film, "On the Trail of the Germs," produced about five years ago, was classified as "educational,"
while Edison's "The Red Cross Seal" and "The Awakening of John Bond" (both of which were produced
at the instance of the National Association for the Study and Prevention of Tuberculosis, and
had to do with the fight waged by that society against the disease in the cities), were listed
as "dramatic" films or photoplays. Anyone who saw all three of the films, however, would recognize
that the Selig picture, while in every respect a subject of great human interest, was strictly
educational, and employed the thread of a story not as a dramatic entertainment, but merely
to furnish a connecting link for the scenes which illustrated the methods of curing the disease
after a patient is discovered to be infected. The Edison pictures, on the other hand, were
real dramas, with well-constructed plots and abundant dramatic interest, even while, as the
advertising in the trade papers announced, the principal object of the pictures was "to disseminate
information as to what becomes of the money that is received from the sale of Red Cross stamps
at holiday time." So we see that the distinction lies in the amount of plot or story-thread
which each carries, and that a mere series of connected pictures without a plot running through
it obviously cannot be called a photoplay any more than a series of tableaus on the stage could
be accurately called a play.

Therefore, learn to think of a photoplay as being a story prepared for pantomimic development
before the camera; a story told in action, with inserted descriptive matter where the thought
might be obscure without its help; a story told in one or more reels, each reel containing
from twenty-five to fifty scenes.

The spectator at a photoplay entertainment must be able promptly and easily to discover who
your characters are, what kind of people they are, what they plan to do, how they succeed or
fail, and, in fact, must "get" the whole story entirely from what he sees the actors in the
picture do, with the slight assistance of a few explanatory leaders, or sub-titles, and, perhaps,
such inserts as a letter, a newspaper cutting, a telegram, or some such device, flashed for
a moment on the screen. The more perfect the photoplay, the less the need for all such explanatory
material, as is the case in perfect pantomime. This, of course, is not to insist upon the utter
absence of all written and printed material thrown on the screen--a question which will be
discussed in a later chapter. It is enough now to emphasize this important point: Dialogue
and description are for the fiction writer; the photoplaywright depends upon his ability to
think and write in action, for the postures, grouping, gestures, movements and facial expressions
of the characters must be shown in action, and not described as in prose fiction.

Action is the most important word in the vocabulary of the photoplaywright. To be able to see
in fancy his thoughts transformed into action is to have gained one goal for which every photoplay
writer strives.

CHAPTER II

WHO CAN WRITE PHOTOPLAYS?

In almost everything that has been written up to the present time concerning the technique
of photoplay writing, considerable stress has been laid on the statement that, notwithstanding
preceding success in their regular field, many authors of popular fiction have either failed
altogether in the production of acceptable photoplays or have had almost as many rejections
as, if not more than, the average novice in short-story writing. That there is much truth in
this cannot be denied; but that a trained and inventive fiction writer--particularly a writer
of plot- or action-stories--after having once learned the mechanics of photoplay construction,
should fail of success in photoplay writing is, obviously, not at all necessary. A discussion
of this point should help to impress on the student just what sort of preparation will be of
the greatest assistance to him in the work he is taking up.

1. Experience in Fiction Writing Valuable to the Photoplaywright

Let us consider the case of a man born with a talent and love for music. As he grows up, he
learns to play upon the violin--learns as hundreds have done, by first taking up the most simple
exercises and constantly working up until he becomes more proficient. As in all other occupations,
practice eventually brings skill, and he at last becomes a master of the violin. He may have
been born a genius--it has always been in him to become the exceptional performer upon the
instrument of his choice. Nevertheless, the hard work was necessary, as that maker of epigrams
saw when he said that genius was an infinite capacity for taking pains.

To carry the simple illustration a step further: geniuses are few, so it is certain that our
artist has become a master of the violin because he is a man who, loving his work and putting
his whole soul into it, daily improved in technique and quality by intelligent labor. If he
is a concert performer, he feels his art becoming more perfect with each new recital. He has
learned how to play, and now there remains nothing but the necessity for keeping constantly--note
the expressive phrase--in practice, and improving the quality and style of his playing.

Let us suppose, now, that this musical artist is offered an exceptionally good salary to appear
in vaudeville with another musician, who performs equally well upon two or three, or even more,
very different instruments. He accepts the offer; he and his partner "open" in the act; and,
after a week or two, in order to "build up" the act as well as to become capable of playing
another kind of instrument, he decides to take up the study of the cornet. The violin and cornet
are, of course, widely different in construction, and they produce very different effects.
Besides, the methods of producing those effects are totally unlike, since one is drawn from
the violin with the aid of trained hands and fingers, while the other is produced by the skillful
operation of the human lips, tongue and lungs, with only minor assistance from the fingers.
Yet the tones of these two instruments may be equally harmonious and pleasing when each is
skillfully played. So, in the course of time, the violinist becomes almost, if not quite, as
accomplished a player upon the cornet as he is upon the instrument whose study first engrossed him.

And now a question--one which certainly should not admit of much difference of opinions in
the answering: Of two men, both possessed of a natural talent and love for music, which would
be likely first to learn to play upon the cornet correctly and with pleasing expression--the
man who had previously learned the technique of violin playing, together with the meaning and
value of musical terms, or the one who, without any knowledge of music or of how to perform,
should suddenly determine to learn to play a given instrument?

2. Photoplay Writing Requires a Separate Training

Apply the same reasoning to the question of who should become the most successful photoplaywright--the
trained and experienced fiction writer, or the ordinarily intelligent and imaginative follower
of some other vocation, who is suddenly struck by the idea that he could, and filled with the
determination that he will, write a photoplay. We accentuate the word become in order to emphasize
the fact that even the professional writer must learn the technique of photoplay construction
before he can hope to produce a script that will not only be accepted by a film manufacturing
company for production, but will be produced exactly as he has written it, without the need
of drastic revision or rewriting. This, however, is very rare today.

This last point is important. While, as we have said, it is improbable that an experienced
fiction writer would fail in the field of photoplay writing once he had learned to put the
plot together in proper form and had mastered a knowledge of the limitations of the moving-picture
stage, it is also just as unlikely that the most famous writer living could legitimately sell
a photoplay that was essentially faulty in construction and absolutely lacking in screen quality.
If the idea were a good one and the writer were to submit it to the producing company under
his own name, the chance is that the company would accept it, and, after using his idea to
construct the photoplay in proper form, produce and even feature it--on account of the big
name won in the field of fiction writing. If, on the other hand, he should submit it under
a pen name it is possible that, provided the plot, or even the fundamental idea, proved to
be exceptionally good, he might be offered a moderate sum for the plot or for the idea alone,
to be worked up and produced as the director thought best. In making him the offer, the company
would probably explain quite frankly that the script was not suitably constructed; that it
would require rewriting in the studio; but that the idea was worth the amount offered. Here,
then, is one point upon which the novice may congratulate himself: he, as an untrained writer
of photoplays, is not alone in having to learn the secret of what will suit the screen, for
until the famous author learns that secret, he, too, is an untrained writer--of photoplays,
and his "prices" will suffer accordingly.

Now, however, after both have acquired this knowledge of screen requirements, the trained fiction
writer and the untrained photoplay writer cease to be on common ground. The writer of novels
and short-stories has the advantage of years of--training, is the best word, meaning, in the
present instance, both experience and special education. He has a tutored imagination; he has
the plot-habit; he has an eye trained to picture dramatic situations; he sees the possibilities
for a strong, appealing story in an incident in everyday life that to ninety-nine other people
would be merely an incident seen for a moment and in a moment forgotten; he has at his command
a dozen different ways of assisting himself to discover plot-germs for his stories--he is,
in short, a workman knowing exactly what to do with the tools already in his possession, and
when he acquires new tools he can, after some practise, use them with equal proficiency and
skill. Furthermore, there can be no doubt that, once each has mastered the working rules of
photoplay construction, the chances for quick and continued success are quite evidently in
favor of the trained fiction writer--notwithstanding the fact that one man in a thousand without
any previous knowledge of writing may become extremely successful.

3. What Chance Has the Novice?

Should the foregoing fact discourage the novice who has not had this previous literary training?
The answer is, emphatically, YES! It should, it ought to--unless (and this is the secret of
it all), unless he has ideas, and is the kind of novice who vows with every grain of determination
in his make-up that he will soon cease to be a mere amateur, and will be recognized as one
of the successful ones. Remember, every writer was once a beginner.

The reader may think, having read this much, that undue stress is laid upon the question of
the previously successful writer and the ambitious but inexperienced amateur; it is this very
insistence on the comparison, however, that should cause the earnest and determined aspirant
to photoplaywright success to analyze more thoroughly the difference, and profit by a knowledge
of how he may quickly advance himself to the position where the previously successful author
will have little or no advantage over him.

