Then the being walks, where is not certain.  But by about half-past  four, a light beams from
the windows of 608 Bush, and he may be  observed sometimes engaged in correspondence, sometimes
once again  plunged in the mysterious rites of the forenoon.  About six he  returns to the
Branch Original, where he once more imbrues himself  to the worth of fivepence in coffee and
roll.  The evening is  devoted to writing and reading, and by eleven or half-past darkness
closes over this weird and truculent existence.

As for coin, you see I don't spend much, only you and Henley both  seem to think my work rather
bosh nowadays, and I do want to make  as much as I was making, that is 200 pounds; if I can
do that, I  can swim:  last year, with my ill health I touched only 109 pounds,  that would
not do, I could not fight it through on that; but on 200  pounds, as I say, I am good for the
world, and can even in this  quiet way save a little, and that I must do.  The worst is my
health; it is suspected I had an ague chill yesterday; I shall know  by to-morrow, and you
know if I am to be laid down with ague the  game is pretty well lost.  But I don't know; I
managed to write a  good deal down in Monterey, when I was pretty sickly most of the  time,
and, by God, I'll try, ague and all.  I have to ask you  frankly, when you write, to give me
any good news you can, and chat  a little, but JUST IN THE MEANTIME, give me no bad.  If I
could get  THOREAU, EMIGRANT and VENDETTA all finished and out of my hand, I  should feel like
a man who had made half a year's income in a half  year; but until the two last are FINISHED,
you see, they don't  fairly count.

I am afraid I bore you sadly with this perpetual talk about my  affairs; I will try and stow
it; but you see, it touches me nearly.   I'm the miser in earnest now:  last night, when I
felt so ill, the  supposed ague chill, it seemed strange not to be able to afford a  drink.
I would have walked half a mile, tired as I felt, for a  brandy and soda. - Ever yours,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO CHARLES BAXTER

608 BUSH STREET, SAN FRANCISCO, JAN. 26, '80

MY DEAR CHARLES, - I have to drop from a 50 cent. to a 25 cent.  dinner; to-day begins my fall.
That brings down my outlay in food  and drink to 45 cents., or 1s. 10 and a half d. per day.
How are  the mighty fallen!  Luckily, this is such a cheap place for food; I  used to pay as
much as that for my first breakfast in the Savile in  the grand old palmy days of yore.  I
regret nothing, and do not  even dislike these straits, though the flesh will rebel on  occasion.
It is to-day bitter cold, after weeks of lovely warm  weather, and I am all in a chitter.

MY DEAR COLVIN, - I received this morning your long letter from  Paris.  Well, God's will be
done; if it's dull, it's dull; it was a  fair fight, and it's lost, and there's an end.  But,
fortunately,  dulness is not a fault the public hates; perhaps they may like this  vein of
dulness.  If they don't, damn them, we'll try them with  another.  I sat down on the back of
your letter, and wrote twelve  Cornhill pages this day as ever was of that same despised EMIGRANT;
so you see my moral courage has not gone down with my intellect.   Only, frankly, Colvin, do
you think it a good plan to be so  eminently descriptive, and even eloquent in dispraise? 
You rolled  such a lot of polysyllables over me that a better man than I might  have been disheartened.
- However, I was not, as you see, and am  not.  The EMIGRANT shall be finished and leave in
the course of  next week.  And then, I'll stick to stories.  I am not frightened.   I know
my mind is changing; I have been telling you so for long;  and I suppose I am fumbling for
the new vein.  Well, I'll find it.

The VENDETTA you will not much like, I dare say:  and that must be  finished next; but I'll
knock you with THE FOREST STATE:  A  ROMANCE.

I'm vexed about my letters; I know it is painful to get these  unsatisfactory things; but at
least I have written often enough.   And not one soul ever gives me any NEWS, about people
or things;  everybody writes me sermons; it's good for me, but hardly the food  necessary for
a man who lives all alone on forty-five cents. a day,  and sometimes less, with quantities
of hard work and many heavy  thoughts.  If one of you could write me a letter with a jest in
it,  a letter like what is written to real people in this world - I am  still flesh and blood
- I should enjoy it.  Simpson did, the other  day, and it did me as much good as a bottle of
wine.  A lonely man  gets to feel like a pariah after awhile - or no, not that, but like  a
saint and martyr, or a kind of macerated clergyman with pebbles  in his boots, a pillared Simeon,
I'm damned if I know what, but,  man alive, I want gossip.

My health is better, my spirits steadier, I am not the least cast  down.  If THE EMIGRANT was
a failure, the PAVILION, by your leave,  was not:  it was a story quite adequately and rightly
done, I  contend; and when I find Stephen, for whom certainly I did not mean  it, taking it
in, I am better pleased with it than before.  I know  I shall do better work than ever I have
done before; but, mind you,  it will not be like it.  My sympathies and interests are changed.
There shall be no more books of travel for me.  I care for nothing  but the moral and the dramatic,
not a jot for the picturesque or  the beautiful other than about people.  It bored me hellishly
to  write the EMIGRANT; well, it's going to bore others to read it;  that's only fair.

I should also write to others; but indeed I am jack-tired, and must  go to bed to a French
novel to compose myself for slumber. - Ever  your affectionate friend,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO W. E. HENLEY

608 BUSH STREET, SAN FRANCISCO, CAL., FEBRUARY 1880.

MY DEAR HENLEY, - Before my work or anything I sit down to answer  your long and kind letter.

I am well, cheerful, busy, hopeful; I cannot be knocked down; I do  not mind about the EMIGRANT.
I never thought it a masterpiece.  It  was written to sell, and I believe it will sell; and
if it does  not, the next will.  You need not be uneasy about my work; I am  only beginning
to see my true method.

(1) As to STUDIES.  There are two more already gone to Stephen.  YOSHIDA TORAJIRO, which I
think temperate and adequate; and  THOREAU, which will want a really Balzacian effort over
the proofs.   But I want BENJAMIN FRANKLIN AND THE ART OF VIRTUE to follow; and  perhaps also
WILLIAM PENN, but this last may be perhaps delayed for  another volume - I think not, though.
The STUDIES will be an  intelligent volume, and in their latter numbers more like what I  mean
to be my style, or I mean what my style means to be, for I am  passive.  (2) The ESSAYS.  Good
news indeed.  I think ORDERED SOUTH  must be thrown in.  It always swells the volume, and it
will never  find a more appropriate place.  It was May 1874, Macmillan, I  believe.  (3) PLAYS.
I did not understand you meant to try the  draft.  I shall make you a full scenario as soon
as the EMIGRANT is  done.  (4) EMIGRANT.  He shall be sent off next week.  (5) Stories.   You
need not be alarmed that I am going to imitate Meredith.  You  know I was a Story-teller ingrain;
did not that reassure you?  The  VENDETTA, which falls next to be finished, is not entirely
pleasant.  But it has points.  THE FOREST STATE or THE GREENWOOD  STATE:  A ROMANCE, is another
pair of shoes.  It is my old  Semiramis, our half-seen Duke and Duchess, which suddenly sprang
into sunshine clearness as a story the other day.  The kind, happy  DENOUEMENT is unfortunately
absolutely undramatic, which will be  our only trouble in quarrying out the play.  I mean we
shall quarry  from it.  CHARACTERS - Otto Frederick John, hereditary Prince of  Grunwald; Amelia
Seraphina, Princess; Conrad, Baron Gondremarck,  Prime Minister; Cancellarius Greisengesang;
Killian Gottesacker,  Steward of the River Farm; Ottilie, his daughter; the Countess von  Rosen.
Seven in all.  A brave story, I swear; and a brave play  too, if we can find the trick to make
the end.  The play, I fear,  will have to end darkly, and that spoils the quality as I now
see  it of a kind of crockery, eighteenth century, high-life-below- stairs life, breaking up
like ice in spring before the nature and  the certain modicum of manhood of my poor, clever,
feather-headed  Prince, whom I love already.  I see Seraphina too.  Gondremarck is  not quite
so clear.  The Countess von Rosen, I have; I'll never  tell you who she is; it's a secret;
but I have known the countess;  well, I will tell you; it's my old Russian friend, Madame Z.
Certain scenes are, in conception, the best I have ever made,  except for HESTER NOBLE.  Those
at the end, Von Rosen and the  Princess, the Prince and Princess, and the Princess and  Gondremarck,
as I now see them from here, should be nuts, Henley,  nuts.  It irks me not to go to them straight.
But the EMIGRANT  stops the way; then a reassured scenario for HESTER; then the  VENDETTA;
then two (or three) Essays - Benjamin Franklin, Thoughts  on Literature as an Art, Dialogue
on Character and Destiny between  two Puppets, The Human Compromise; and then, at length -
come to  me, my Prince.  O Lord, it's going to be courtly!  And there is not  an ugly person
nor an ugly scene in it.  The SLATE both Fanny and I  have damned utterly; it is too morbid,
ugly, and unkind; better  starvation.

MY DEAR COLVIN, - My landlord and landlady's little four-year-old  child is dying in the house;
and O, what he has suffered.  It has  really affected my health.  O never, never any family
for me!  I am  cured of that.

I have taken a long holiday - have not worked for three days, and  will not for a week; for
I was really weary.  Excuse this scratch;  for the child weighs on me, dear Colvin.  I did
all I could to  help; but all seems little, to the point of crime, when one of  these poor
innocents lies in such misery. - Ever yours,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO EDMUND GOSSE

SAN FRANCISCO, CAL., APRIL 16 [1880].

MY DEAR GOSSE, - You have not answered my last; and I know you will  repent when you hear how
near I have been to another world.  For  about six weeks I have been in utter doubt; it was
a toss-up for  life or death all that time; but I won the toss, sir, and Hades  went off once
more discomfited.  This is not the first time, nor  will it be the last, that I have a friendly
game with that  gentleman.  I know he will end by cleaning me out; but the rogue is  insidious,
and the habit of that sort of gambling seems to be a  part of my nature; it was, I suspect,
too much indulged in youth;  break your children of this tendency, my dear Gosse, from the
first.  It is, when once formed, a habit more fatal than opium - I  speak, as St. Paul says,
like a fool.  I have been very very sick;  on the verge of a galloping consumption, cold sweats,
prostrating  attacks of cough, sinking fits in which I lost the power of speech,  fever, and
all the ugliest circumstances of the disease; and I have  cause to bless God, my wife that
is to be, and one Dr. Bamford (a  name the Muse repels), that I have come out of all this,
and got my  feet once more upon a little hilltop, with a fair prospect of life  and some new
desire of living.  Yet I did not wish to die, neither;  only I felt unable to go on farther
with that rough horseplay of  human life:  a man must be pretty well to take the business in
good  part.  Yet I felt all the time that I had done nothing to entitle  me to an honourable
discharge; that I had taken up many obligations  and begun many friendships which I had no
right to put away from  me; and that for me to die was to play the cur and slinking  sybarite,
and desert the colours on the eve of the decisive fight.   Of course I have done no work for
I do not know how long; and here  you can triumph.  I have been reduced to writing verses for
amusement.  A fact.  The whirligig of time brings in its revenges,  after all.  But I'll have
them buried with me, I think, for I have  not the heart to burn them while I live.  Do write.
I shall go to  the mountains as soon as the weather clears; on the way thither, I  marry myself;
then I set up my family altar among the pinewoods,  3000 feet, sir, from the disputatious sea.
- I am, dear Weg, most  truly yours,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO DR. W. BAMFORD

[SAN FRANCISCO, APRIL 1880.]

MY DEAR SIR, - Will you let me offer you this little book?  If I  had anything better, it should
be yours.  May you not dislike it,  for it will be your own handiwork if there are other fruits
from  the same tree!  But for your kindness and skill, this would have  been my last book,
and now I am in hopes that it will be neither my  last nor my best.

You doctors have a serious responsibility.  You recall a man from  the gates of death, you
give him health and strength once more to  use or to abuse.  I hope I shall feel your responsibility
added to  my own, and seek in the future to make a better profit of the life  you have renewed
me. - I am, my dear sir, gratefully yours,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

[SAN FRANCISCO, APRIL 1880.]

MY DEAR COLVIN, - You must be sick indeed of my demand for books,  for you have seemingly not
yet sent me one.  Still, I live on  promises:  waiting for Penn, for H. James's HAWTHORNE,
for my  BURNS, etc.; and now, to make matters worse, pending your  CENTURIES, etc., I do earnestly
desire the best book about  mythology (if it be German, so much the worse; send a bunctionary
along with it, and pray for me).  This is why.  If I recover, I  feel called on to write a
volume of gods and demi-gods in exile:   Pan, Jove, Cybele, Venus, Charon, etc.; and though
I should like to  take them very free, I should like to know a little about 'em to  begin with.
For two days, till last night, I had no night sweats,  and my cough is almost gone, and I digest
well; so all looks  hopeful.  However, I was near the other side of Jordan.  I send the  proof
of THOREAU to you, so that you may correct and fill up the  quotation from Goethe.  It is a
pity I was ill, as, for matter, I  think I prefer that to any of my essays except Burns; but
the  style, though quite manly, never attains any melody or lenity.  So  much for consumption:
I begin to appreciate what the EMIGRANT must  be.  As soon as I have done the last few pages
of the EMIGRANT they  shall go to you.  But when will that be?  And so now recover the sheets
of the EMIGRANT,  and post them registered to me.  And now please give me all your  venom against
it; say your worst, and most incisively, for now it  will be a help, and I'll make it right
or perish in the attempt.   Now, do you understand why I protested against your depressing
eloquence on the subject?  When I HAD to go on any way, for dear  life, I thought it a kind
of pity and not much good to discourage  me.  Now all's changed.  God only knows how much courage
and  suffering is buried in that MS.  The second part was written in a  circle of hell unknown
to Dante - that of the penniless and dying  author.  For dying I was, although now saved. 
Another week, the  doctor said, and I should have been past salvation.  I think I  shall always
think of it as my best work.  There is one page in  Part II., about having got to shore, and
sich, which must have cost  me altogether six hours of work as miserable as ever I went  through.
I feel sick even to think of it. - Ever your friend,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

[SAN FRANCISCO, MAY 1880.]

MY DEAR COLVIN, - I received your letter and proof to-day, and was  greatly delighted with
the last.

I am now out of danger; in but a short while (I.E. as soon as the  weather is settled), F.
and I marry and go up to the hills to look  for a place; 'I to the hills will lift mine eyes,
from whence doth  come mine aid':  once the place found, the furniture will follow.   There,
sir, in, I hope, a ranche among the pine-trees and hard by a  running brook, we are to fish,
hunt, sketch, study Spanish, French,  Latin, Euclid, and History; and, if possible, not quarrel.
Far  from man, sir, in the virgin forest.  Thence, as my strength  returns, you may expect
works of genius.  I always feel as if I  must write a work of genius some time or other; and
when is it more  likely to come off, than just after I have paid a visit to Styx and  go thence
to the eternal mountains?  Such a revolution in a man's  affairs, as I have somewhere written,
would set anybody singing.   When we get installed, Lloyd and I are going to print my poetical
works; so all those who have been poetically addressed shall  receive copies of their addresses.
They are, I believe, pretty  correct literary exercises, or will be, with a few filings; but
they are not remarkable for white-hot vehemence of inspiration;  tepid works! respectable versifications
of very proper and even  original sentiments:  kind of Hayleyistic, I fear - but no, this is
morbid self-depreciation.  The family is all very shaky in health,  but our motto is now 'Al
Monte!' in the words of Don Lope, in the  play the sister and I are just beating through with
two bad  dictionaries and an insane grammar.

I to the hills. - Yours ever,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO C. W. STODDARD

EAST OAKLAND, CAL., MAY 1880.

MY DEAR STODDARD, - I am guilty in thy sight and the sight of God.   However, I swore a great
oath that you should see some of my  manuscript at last; and though I have long delayed to
keep it, yet  it was to be.  You re-read your story and were disgusted; that is  the cold fit
following the hot.  I don't say you did wrong to be  disgusted, yet I am sure you did wrong
to be disgusted altogether.   There was, you may depend upon it, some reason for your previous
vanity, as well as your present mortification.  I shall hear you,  years from now, timidly
begin to retrim your feathers for a little  self-laudation, and trot out this misdespised novelette
as not the  worst of your performances.  I read the album extracts with sincere  interest;
but I regret that you spared to give the paper more  development; and I conceive that you might
do a great deal worse  than expand each of its paragraphs into an essay or sketch, the  excuse
being in each case your personal intercourse; the bulk, when  that would not be sufficient,
to be made up from their own works  and stories.  Three at least - Menken, Yelverton, and Keeler
-  could not fail of a vivid human interest.  Let me press upon you  this plan; should any
document be wanted from Europe, let me offer  my services to procure it.  I am persuaded that
there is stuff in  the idea.

Are you coming over again to see me some day soon?  I keep  returning, and now hand over fist,
from the realms of Hades:  I saw  that gentleman between the eyes, and fear him less after
each  visit.  Only Charon, and his rough boatmanship, I somewhat fear.

I have a desire to write some verses for your album; so, if you  will give me the entry among
your gods, goddesses, and godlets,  there will be nothing wanting but the Muse.  I think of
the verses  like Mark Twain; sometimes I wish fulsomely to belaud you;  sometimes to insult
your city and fellow-citizens; sometimes to sit  down quietly, with the slender reed, and troll
a few staves of  Panic ecstasy - but fy! fy! as my ancestors observed, the last is  too easy
for a man of my feet and inches.

At least, Stoddard, you now see that, although so costive, when I  once begin I am a copious
letter-writer.  I thank you, and AU  REVOIR.  At  first I was tempted to suppose that I had
been myself to blame in  some way; but now I have grown to fear lest some sickness or  trouble
among those whom you love may not be the impediment.  I  believe I shall soon hear; so I wait
as best I can.  I am, beyond a  doubt, greatly stronger, and yet still useless for any work,
and, I  may say, for any pleasure.  My affairs and the bad weather still  keep me here unmarried;
but not, I earnestly hope, for long.   Whenever I get into the mountain, I trust I shall rapidly
pick up.   Until I get away from these sea fogs and my imprisonment in the  house, I do not
hope to do much more than keep from active harm.   My doctor took a desponding fit about me,
and scared Fanny into  blue fits; but I have talked her over again.  It is the change I  want,
and the blessed sun, and a gentle air in which I can sit out  and see the trees and running
water:  these mere defensive  hygienics cannot advance one, though they may prevent evil. 
I do  nothing now, but try to possess my soul in peace, and continue to  possess my body on
any terms.

CALISTOGA, NAPA COUNTY, CALIFORNIA.

All which is a fortnight old and not much to the point nowadays.   Here we are, Fanny and I,
and a certain hound, in a lovely valley  under Mount Saint Helena, looking around, or rather
wondering when  we shall begin to look around, for a house of our own.  I have  received the
first sheets of the AMATEUR EMIGRANT; not yet the  second bunch, as announced.  It is a pretty
heavy, emphatic piece  of pedantry; but I don't care; the public, I verily believe, will  like
it.  I have excised all you proposed and more on my own  movement.  But I have not yet been
able to rewrite the two special  pieces which, as you said, so badly wanted it; it is hard
work to  rewrite passages in proof; and the easiest work is still hard to  me.  But I am certainly
recovering fast; a married and convalescent  being.

Received James's HAWTHORNE, on which I meditate a blast, Miss Bird,  Dixon's PENN, a WRONG
CORNHILL (like my luck) and COQUELIN:  for  all which, and especially the last, I tender my
best thanks.  I  have opened only James; it is very clever, very well written, and  out of
sight the most inside-out thing in the world; I have dug up  the hatchet; a scalp shall flutter
at my belt ere long.  I think my  new book should be good; it will contain our adventures for
the  summer, so far as these are worth narrating; and I have already a  few pages of diary
which should make up bright.  I am going to  repeat my old experiment, after buckling-to a
while to write more  correctly, lie down and have a wallow.  Whether I shall get any of  my
novels done this summer I do not know; I wish to finish the  VENDETTA first, for it really
could not come after PRINCE OTTO.   Lewis Campbell has made some noble work in that Agamemnon;
it  surprised me.  We hope to get a house at Silverado, a deserted  mining-camp eight miles
up the mountain, now solely inhabited by a  mighty hunter answering to the name of Rufe Hansome,
who slew last  year a hundred and fifty deer.  This is the motto I propose for the  new volume:
'VIXERUNT NONNULLI IN AGRIS, DELECTATI RE SUA  FAMILIARI.  HIS IDEM PROPOSITUM FUIT QUOD REGIBUS,
UT NE QUA RE  EGERENT, NE CUI PARERENT, LIBERTATE UTERENTUR; CUJUS PROPRIUM EST  SIC VIVERE
UT VELIS.'  I always have a terror lest the wish should  have been father to the translation,
when I come to quote; but that  seems too plain sailing.  I should put REGIBUS in capitals
for the  pleasantry's sake.  We are in the Coast Range, that being so much  cheaper to reach;
the family, I hope, will soon follow. - Love to  all, ever yours,

R. L. S.

CHAPTER V - ALPINE WINTERS AND HIGHLAND SUMMERS, AUGUST 1880- OCTOBER 1882

Letter:  TO A. G. DEW-SMITH

[HOTEL BELVEDERE, DAVOS, NOVEMBER 1880.]

Figure me to yourself, I pray - A man of my peculiar cut - Apart from dancing and deray, Into
an Alpine valley shut;

Shut in a kind of damned Hotel, Discountenanced by God and man; The food? - Sir, you would
do as well To cram your belly full of bran.

The company?  Alas, the day That I should dwell with such a crew, With devil anything to say,
Nor any one to say it to!

The place?  Although they call it Platz, I will be bold and state my view; It's not a place
at all - and that's The bottom verity, my Dew.

There are, as I will not deny, Innumerable inns; a road; Several Alps indifferent high; The
snow's inviolable abode;

Eleven English parsons, all Entirely inoffensive; four True human beings - what I call Human
- the deuce a cipher more;

A climate of surprising worth; Innumerable dogs that bark; Some air, some weather, and some
earth; A native race - God save the mark! -

A race that works, yet cannot work, Yodels, but cannot yodel right, Such as, unhelp'd, with
rusty dirk, I vow that I could wholly smite.

A river that from morn to night Down all the valley plays the fool; Not once she pauses in
her flight, Nor knows the comfort of a pool;

But still keeps up, by straight or bend, The selfsame pace she hath begun - Still hurry, hurry,
to the end - Good God, is that the way to run?

If I a river were, I hope That I should better realise The opportunities and scope Of that
romantic enterprise.

I should not ape the merely strange, But aim besides at the divine; And continuity and change
I still should labour to combine.

Here should I gallop down the race, Here charge the sterling like a bull; There, as a man might
wipe his face, Lie, pleased and panting, in a pool.

But what, my Dew, in idle mood, What prate I, minding not my debt? What do I talk of bad or
good? The best is still a cigarette.

Me whether evil fate assault, Or smiling providences crown - Whether on high the eternal vault
Be blue, or crash with thunder down -

I judge the best, whate'er befall, Is still to sit on one's behind, And, having duly moistened
all, Smoke with an unperturbed mind.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO THOMAS STEVENSON

[HOTEL BELVEDERE], DAVOS, DECEMBER 12 [1880].

MY DEAR FATHER, - Here is the scheme as well as I can foresee.  I  begin the book immediately
after the '15, as then began the attempt  to suppress the Highlands.

I. THIRTY YEARS' INTERVAL

(1) Rob Roy. (2) The Independent Companies:  the Watches. (3) Story of Lady Grange. (4) The
Military Roads, and Disarmament:  Wade and (5) Burt.

II. THE HEROIC AGE

(1) Duncan Forbes of Culloden. (2) Flora Macdonald. (3) The Forfeited Estates; including Hereditary
Jurisdictions; and  the admirable conduct of the tenants.

III. LITERATURE HERE INTERVENES

(1) The Ossianic Controversy. (2) Boswell and Johnson. (3) Mrs. Grant of Laggan.

IV. ECONOMY

(1) Highland Economics. (2) The Reinstatement of the Proprietors. (3) The Evictions. (4) Emigration.
(5) Present State.

V. RELIGION

(1) The Catholics, Episcopals, and Kirk, and Soc. Prop. Christ.  Knowledge. (2) The Men. (3)
The Disruption.

All this, of course, will greatly change in form, scope, and order;  this is just a bird's-eye
glance.  Thank you for BURT, which came,  and for your Union notes.  I have read one-half (about
900 pages)  of Wodrow's CORRESPONDENCE, with some improvement, but great  fatigue.  The doctor
thinks well of my recovery, which puts me in  good hope for the future.  I should certainly
be able to make a  fine history of this.

My Essays are going through the press, and should be out in January  or February. - Ever affectionate
son,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO EDMUND GOSSE

HOTEL BELVEDERE, DAVOS PLATZ [DEC. 6, 1880].

MY DEAR WEG, - I have many letters that I ought to write in  preference to this; but a duty
to letters and to you prevails over  any private consideration.  You are going to collect odes;
I could  not wish a better man to do so; but I tremble lest you should  commit two sins of
omission.  You will not, I am sure, be so far  left to yourself as to give us no more of Dryden
than the hackneyed  St. Cecilia; I know you will give us some others of those  surprising masterpieces
where there is more sustained eloquence and  harmony of English numbers than in all that has
been written since;  there is a machine about a poetical young lady, and another about  either
Charles or James, I know not which; and they are both  indescribably fine.  (Is Marvell's Horatian
Ode good enough?  I  half think so.)  But my great point is a fear that you are one of  those
who are unjust to our old Tennyson's Duke of Wellington.  I  have just been talking it over
with Symonds; and we agreed that  whether for its metrical effects, for its brief, plain, stirring
words of portraiture, as - he 'that never lost an English gun,' or  - the soldier salute; or
for the heroic apostrophe to Nelson; that  ode has never been surpassed in any tongue or time.
Grant me the  Duke, O Weg!  I suppose you must not put in yours about the  warship; you will
have to admit worse ones, however. - Ever yours,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO EDMUND GOSSE

[HOTEL BELVEDERE], DAVOS, DEC. 19, 1880.

This letter is a report of a long sederunt, also steterunt in small  committee at Davos Platz,
Dec. 15, 1880.

Its results are unhesitatingly shot at your head.

MY DEAR WEG, - We both insist on the Duke of Wellington.  Really it  cannot be left out.  Symonds
said you would cover yourself with  shame, and I add, your friends with confusion, if you leave
it out.   Really, you know it is the only thing you have, since Dryden, where  that irregular
odic, odal, odous (?) verse is used with mastery and  sense.  And it's one of our few English
blood-boilers.

(2) Byron:  if anything:  PROMETHEUS.

(3) Shelley (1) THE WORLD'S GREAT AGE from Hellas; we are both dead  on.  After that you have,
of course, THE WEST WIND thing.  But we  think (1) would maybe be enough; no more than two any way.

(4) Herrick.  MEDDOWES and COME, MY CORINNA.  After that MR.  WICKES:  two any way.

(5) Leave out stanza 3rd of Congreve's thing, like a dear; we can't  stand the 'sigh' nor the
'peruke.'

(6) Milton.  TIME and the SOLEMN MUSIC.  We both agree we would  rather go without L'Allegro
and Il Penseroso than these; for the  reason that these are not so well known to the brutish herd.

(7) Is the ROYAL GEORGE an ode, or only an elegy?  It's so good.

(8) We leave Campbell to you.

(9) If you take anything from Clough, but we don't either of us  fancy you will, let it be
COME BACK.

(10) Quite right about Dryden.  I had a hankering after THRENODIA  AUGUSTALIS; but I find it
long and with very prosaic holes:   though, O! what fine stuff between whiles.

(11) Right with Collins.

(12) Right about Pope's Ode.  But what can you give?  THE DYING  CHRISTIAN? or one of his inimitable
courtesies?  These last are  fairly odes, by the Horatian model, just as my dear MEDDOWES is
an  ode in the name and for the sake of Bandusia.

(13) Whatever you do, you'll give us the Greek Vase.

(14) Do you like Jonson's 'loathed stage'?  Verses 2, 3, and 4 are  so bad, also the last line.
But there is a fine movement and  feeling in the rest.

We will have the Duke of Wellington by God.  Pro Symonds and  Stevenson.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO CHARLES WARREN STODDARD

HOTEL BELVEDERE, DAVOS PLATZ, SWITZERLAND [DECEMBER 1880].

DEAR CHARLES WARREN STODDARD, - Many thanks to you for the letter  and the photograph.  Will
you think it mean if I ask you to wait  till there appears a promised cheap edition?  Possibly
the canny  Scot does feel pleasure in the superior cheapness; but the true  reason is this,
that I think to put a few words, by way of notes,  to each book in its new form, because that
will be the Standard  Edition, without which no g.'s l. will be complete.  The edition,  briefly,
SINE QUA NON.  Before that, I shall hope to send you my  essays, which are in the printer's
hands.  I look to get yours  soon.  I am sorry to hear that the Custom House has proved  fallible,
like all other human houses and customs.  Life consists  of that sort of business, and I fear
that there is a class of man,  of which you offer no inapt type, doomed to a kind of mild,
general  disappointment through life.  I do not believe that a man is the  more unhappy for
that.  Disappointment, except with one's self, is  not a very capital affair; and the sham
beatitude, 'Blessed is he  that expecteth little,' one of the truest, and in a sense, the most
Christlike things in literature.

Alongside of you, I have been all my days a red cannon ball of  dissipated effort; here I am
by the heels in this Alpine valley,  with just so much of a prospect of future restoration
as shall make  my present caged estate easily tolerable to me - shall or should, I  would not
swear to the word before the trial's done.  I miss all my  objects in the meantime; and, thank
God, I have enough of my old,  and maybe somewhat base philosophy, to keep me on a good  understanding
with myself and Providence.

The mere extent of a man's travels has in it something consolatory.   That he should have left
friends and enemies in many different and  distant quarters gives a sort of earthly dignity
to his existence.   And I think the better of myself for the belief that I have left  some
in California interested in me and my successes.  Let me  assure you, you who have made friends
already among such various  and distant races, that there is a certain phthisical Scot who
will  always be pleased to hear good news of you, and would be better  pleased by nothing than
to learn that you had thrown off your  present incubus, largely consisting of letters I believe,
and had  sailed into some square work by way of change.

And by way of change in itself, let me copy on the other pages some  broad Scotch I wrote for
you when I was ill last spring in Oakland.   It is no muckle worth:  but ye should na look
a gien horse in the  moo'. - Yours ever,

R. L. STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO MR. AND MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

DECEMBER 21, 1880.  DAVOS.

MY DEAR PEOPLE, - I do not understand these reproaches.  The  letters come between seven and
nine in the evening; and every one  about the books was answered that same night, and the answer
left  Davos by seven o'clock next morning.  Perhaps the snow delayed  then; if so, 'tis a good
hint to you not to be uneasy at apparent  silences.  There is no hurry about my father's notes;
I shall not  be writing anything till I get home again, I believe.  Only I want  to be able
to keep reading AD HOC all winter, as it seems about all  I shall be fit for.  About John Brown,
I have been breaking my  heart to finish a Scotch poem to him.  Some of it is not really  bad,
but the rest will not come, and I mean to get it right before  I do anything else.

The bazaar is over, 160 pounds gained, and everybody's health lost:   altogether, I never had
a more uncomfortable time; apply to Fanny  for further details of the discomfort.

We have our Wogg in somewhat better trim now, and vastly better  spirits.  The weather has
been bad - for Davos, but indeed it is a  wonderful climate.  It never feels cold; yesterday,
with a little,  chill, small, northerly draught, for the first time, it was  pinching.  Usually,
it may freeze, or snow, or do what it pleases,  you feel it not, or hardly any.

Thanks for your notes; that fishery question will come in, as you  notice, in the Highland
Book, as well as under the Union; it is  very important.  I hear no word of Hugh Miller's EVICTIONS;
I count  on that.  What you say about the old and new Statistical is odd.   It seems to me
very much as if I were gingerly embarking on a  HISTORY OF MODERN SCOTLAND.  Probably Tulloch
will never carry it  out.  And, you see, once I have studied and written these two  vols.,
THE TRANSFORMATION OF THE SCOTTISH HIGHLANDS and SCOTLAND  AND THE UNION, I shall have a good
ground to go upon.  The effect  on my mind of what I have read has been to awaken a livelier
sympathy for the Irish; although they never had the remarkable  virtues, I fear they have suffered
many of the injustices, of the  Scottish Highlanders.  Ruedi has seen me this morning; he says
the  disease is at a standstill, and I am to profit by it to take more  exercise.  Altogether,
he seemed quite hopeful and pleased. - I am  your ever affectionate son,

R. L S.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

[HOTEL BELVEDERE, DAVOS, Christmas 1880.]

MY DEAR COLVIN, - Thanks for yours; I waited, as said I would.  I  now expect no answer from
you, regarding you as a mere dumb cock- shy, or a target, at which we fire our arrows diligently
all day  long, with no anticipation it will bring them back to us.  We are  both sadly mortified
you are not coming, but health comes first;  alas, that man should be so crazy.  What fun we
could have, if we  were all well, what work we could do, what a happy place we could  make
it for each other!  If I were able to do what I want; but then  I am not, and may leave that vein.

No.  I do not think I shall require to know the Gaelic; few things  are written in that language,
or ever were; if you come to that,  the number of those who could write, or even read it, through
almost all my period, must, by all accounts, have been incredibly  small.  Of course, until
the book is done, I must live as much as  possible in the Highlands, and that suits my book
as to health.  It  is a most interesting and sad story, and from the '45 it is all to  be written
for the first time.  This, of course, will cause me a  far greater difficulty about authorities;
but I have already  learned much, and where to look for more.  One pleasant feature is  the
vast number of delightful writers I shall have to deal with:   Burt, Johnson, Boswell, Mrs.
Grant of Laggan, Scott.  There will be  interesting sections on the Ossianic controversy and
the growth of  the taste for Highland scenery.  I have to touch upon Rob Roy,  Flora Macdonald,
the strange story of Lady Grange, the beautiful  story of the tenants on the Forfeited Estates,
and the odd, inhuman  problem of the great evictions.  The religious conditions are wild, 
unknown, very surprising.  And three out of my five parts remain  hitherto entirely unwritten.
Smack! - Yours ever,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

CHRISTMAS SERMON. [HOTEL BELVEDERE, DAVOS, DECEMBER 26, 1880.]

MY DEAR MOTHER, - I was very tired yesterday and could not write;  tobogganed so furiously
all morning; we had a delightful day,  crowned by an incredible dinner - more courses than
I have fingers  on my hands.  Your letter arrived duly at night, and I thank you  for it as
I should.  You need not suppose I am at all insensible to  my father's extraordinary kindness
about this book; he is a brick;  I vote for him freely.

. . . The assurance you speak of is what we all ought to have, and  might have, and should
not consent to live without.  That people do  not have it more than they do is, I believe,
because persons speak  so much in large-drawn, theological similitudes, and won't say out 
what they mean about life, and man, and God, in fair and square  human language.  I wonder
if you or my father ever thought of the  obscurities that lie upon human duty from the negative
form in  which the Ten Commandments are stated, or of how Christ was so  continually substituting
affirmations.  'Thou shalt not' is but an  example; 'Thou shalt' is the law of God.  It was
this that seems  meant in the phrase that 'not one jot nor tittle of the law should  pass.'
But what led me to the remark is this:  A kind of black,  angry look goes with that statement
of the law of negatives.  'To  love one's neighbour as oneself' is certainly much harder, but
states life so much more actively, gladly, and kindly, that you  begin to see some pleasure
in it; and till you can see pleasure in  these hard choices and bitter necessities, where is
there any Good  News to men?  It is much more important to do right than not to do  wrong;
further, the one is possible, the other has always been and  will ever be impossible; and the
faithful DESIGN TO DO RIGHT is  accepted by God; that seems to me to be the Gospel, and that
was  how Christ delivered us from the Law.  After people are told that,  surely they might
hear more encouraging sermons.  To blow the  trumpet for good would seem the Parson's business;
and since it is  not in our own strength, but by faith and perseverance (no account  made of
slips), that we are to run the race, I do not see where  they get the material for their gloomy
discourses.  Faith is not to  believe the Bible, but to believe in God; if you believe in God
(or, for it's the same thing, have that assurance you speak about),  where is there any more
room for terror?  There are only three  possible attitudes - Optimism, which has gone to smash;
Pessimism,  which is on the rising hand, and very popular with many clergymen  who seem to
think they are Christians.  And this Faith, which is  the Gospel.  Once you hold the last,
it is your business (1) to  find out what is right in any given case, and (2) to try to do
it;  if you fail in the last, that is by commission, Christ tells you to  hope; if you fail
in the first, that is by omission, his picture of  the last day gives you but a black lookout.
The whole necessary  morality is kindness; and it should spring, of itself, from the one  fundamental
doctrine, Faith.  If you are sure that God, in the long  run, means kindness by you, you should
be happy; and if happy,  surely you should be kind.

I beg your pardon for this long discourse; it is not all right, of  course, but I am sure there
is something in it.  One thing I have  not got clearly; that about the omission and the commission;
but  there is truth somewhere about it, and I have no time to clear it  just now.  Do you know,
you have had about a Cornhill page of  sermon?  It is, however, true.

Lloyd heard with dismay Fanny was not going to give me a present;  so F. and I had to go and
buy things for ourselves, and go through  a representation of surprise when they were presented
next morning.   It gave us both quite a Santa Claus feeling on Xmas Eve to see him  so excited
and hopeful; I enjoyed it hugely. - Your affectionate  son,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

[HOTEL BELVEDERE, DAVOS, SPRING 1881.]

MY DEAR COLVIN. - My health is not just what it should be; I have  lost weight, pulse, respiration,
etc., and gained nothing in the  way of my old bellows.  But these last few days, with tonic,
cod- liver oil, better wine (there is some better now), and perpetual  beef-tea, I think I
have progressed.  To say truth, I have been  here a little over long.  I was reckoning up,
and since I have  known you, already quite a while, I have not, I believe, remained  so long
in any one place as here in Davos.  That tells on my old  gipsy nature; like a violin hung
up, I begin to lose what music  there was in me; and with the music, I do not know what besides,
or  do not know what to call it, but something radically part of life,  a rhythm, perhaps,
in one's old and so brutally over-ridden nerves,  or perhaps a kind of variety of blood that
the heart has come to  look for.

I purposely knocked myself off first.  As to F. A. S., I believe I  am no sound authority;
I alternate between a stiff disregard and a  kind of horror.  In neither mood can a man judge
at all.  I know  the thing to be terribly perilous, I fear it to be now altogether  hopeless.
Luck has failed; the weather has not been favourable;  and in her true heart, the mother hopes
no more.  But - well, I  feel a great deal, that I either cannot or will not say, as you  well
know.  It has helped to make me more conscious of the  wolverine on my own shoulders, and that
also makes me a poor judge  and poor adviser.  Perhaps, if we were all marched out in a row,
and a piece of platoon firing to the drums performed, it would be  well for us; although, I
suppose - and yet I wonder! - so ill for  the poor mother and for the dear wife.  But you can
see this makes  me morbid.  SUFFICIT; EXPLICIT.

You are right about the Carlyle book; F. and I are in a world not  ours; but pardon me, as
far as sending on goes, we take another  view:  the first volume, A LA BONNE HEURE! but not
- never - the  second.  Two hours of hysterics can be no good matter for a sick  nurse, and
the strange, hard, old being in so lamentable and yet  human a desolation - crying out like
a burnt child, and yet always  wisely and beautifully - how can that end, as a piece of reading,
even to the strong - but on the brink of the most cruel kind of  weeping?  I observe the old
man's style is stronger on me than ever  it was, and by rights, too, since I have just laid
down his most  attaching book.  God rest the baith o' them!  But even if they do  not meet
again, how we should all be strengthened to be kind, and  not only in act, in speech also,
that so much more important part.   See what this apostle of silence most regrets, not speaking
out his  heart.

I was struck as you were by the admirable, sudden, clear sunshine  upon Southey - even on his
works.  Symonds, to whom I repeated it,  remarked at once, a man who was thus respected by
both Carlyle and  Landor must have had more in him than we can trace.  So I feel with  true
humility.

It was to save my brain that Symonds proposed reviewing.  He and,  it appears, Leslie Stephen
fear a little some eclipse; I am not  quite without sharing the fear.  I know my own languor
as no one  else does; it is a dead down-draught, a heavy fardel.  Yet if I  could shake off
the wolverine aforesaid, and his fangs are lighter,  though perhaps I feel them more, I believe
I could be myself again  a while.  I have not written any letter for a great time; none  saying
what I feel, since you were here, I fancy.  Be duly obliged  for it, and take my most earnest
thanks not only for the books but  for your letter.  Your affectionate,

R. L. S.

The effect of reading this on Fanny shows me I must tell you I am  very happy, peaceful, and
jolly, except for questions of work and  the states of other people.

Woggin sends his love.

Letter:  TO HORATIO F. BROWN

DAVOS, 1881.

MY DEAR BROWN. - Here it is, with the mark of a San Francisco  BOUQUINISTE.  And if ever in
all my 'human conduct' I have done a  better thing to any fellow-creature than handing on to
you this  sweet, dignified, and wholesome book, I know I shall hear of it on  the last day.
To write a book like this were impossible; at least  one can hand it on - with a wrench - one
to another.  My wife cries  out and my own heart misgives me, but still here it is.  I could
scarcely better prove myself - Yours affectionately,

R. L. STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO HORATIO F. BROWN

DAVOS, 1881.

MY DEAR BROWN. - I hope, if you get thus far, you will know what an  invaluable present I have
made you.  Even the copy was dear to me,  printed in the colony that Penn established, and
carried in my  pocket all about the San Francisco streets, read in street cars and  ferry-boats,
when I was sick unto death, and found in all times and  places a peaceful and sweet companion.
But I hope, when you shall  have reached this note, my gift will not have been in vain; for
while just now we are so busy and intelligent, there is not the man  living, no, nor recently
dead, that could put, with so lovely a  spirit, so much honest, kind wisdom into words.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO HORATIO F. BROWN

HOTEL BELVEDERE, DAVOS, SPRING 1881.

MY DEAR BROWN, - Nine years I have conded them.

Brave lads in olden musical centuries Sang, night by night, adorable choruses, Sat late by
alehouse doors in April Chaunting in joy as the moon was rising:

Moon-seen and merry, under the trellises, Flush-faced they played with old polysyllables; Spring
scents inspired, old wine diluted; Love and Apollo were there to chorus.

Now these, the songs, remain to eternity, Those, only those, the bountiful choristers Gone
- those are gone, those unremembered Sleep and are silent in earth for ever.

So man himself appears and evanishes, So smiles and goes; as wanderers halting at Some green-embowered
house, play their music, Play and are gone on the windy highway;

Yet dwells the strain enshrined in the memory Long after they departed eternally, Forth-faring
tow'rd far mountain summits, Cities of men on the sounding Ocean.

Youth sang the song in years immemorial; Brave chanticleer, he sang and was beautiful; Bird-haunted,
green tree-tops in springtime Heard and were pleased by the voice of singing;

Youth goes, and leaves behind him a prodigy - Songs sent by thee afar from Venetian Sea-grey
lagunes, sea-paven highways, Dear to me here in my Alpine exile.

Please, my dear Brown, forgive my horrid delay.  Symonds overworked  and knocked up.  I off
my sleep; my wife gone to Paris.  Weather  lovely. - Yours ever,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Monte Generoso in May; here, I think, till the end of April; write  again, to prove you are
forgiving.

Letter:  TO MR. AND MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

HOTEL DU PAVILLON HENRY IV., ST. GERMAIN-EN-LAYE, SUNDAY, MAY 1ST,  1881.

MY DEAR PEOPLE, - A week in Paris reduced me to the limpness and  lack of appetite peculiar
to a kid glove, and gave Fanny a jumping  sore throat.  It's my belief there is death in the
kettle there; a  pestilence or the like.  We came out here, pitched on the STAR and  GARTER
(they call it Somebody's pavilion), found the place a bed of  lilacs and nightingales (first
time I ever heard one), and also of  a bird called the PIASSEUR, cheerfulest of sylvan creatures,
an  ideal comic opera in itself.  'Come along, what fun, here's Pan in  the next glade at picnic,
and this-yer's Arcadia, and it's awful  fun, and I've had a glass, I will not deny, but not
to see it on  me,' that is his meaning as near as I can gather.  Well, the place  (forest of
beeches all new-fledged, grass like velvet, fleets of  hyacinth) pleased us and did us good.
We tried all ways to find a  cheaper place, but could find nothing safe; cold, damp, brick-
floored rooms and sich; we could not leave Paris till your seven  days' sight on draft expired;
we dared not go back to be  miasmatised in these homes of putridity; so here we are till  Tuesday
in the STAR AND GARTER.  My throat is quite cured, appetite  and strength on the mend.  Fanny
seems also picking up.

If we are to come to Scotland, I WILL have fir-trees, and I want a  burn, the firs for my physical,
the water for my moral health. -  Ever affectionate son,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO EDMUND GOSSE

PITLOCHRY, PERTHSHIRE, JUNE 6, 1881.

MY DEAR WEG, - Here I am in my native land, being gently blown and  hailed upon, and sitting
nearer and nearer to the fire.  A cottage  near a moor is soon to receive our human forms;
it is also near a  burn to which Professor Blackie (no less!) has written some verses  in his
hot old age, and near a farm from whence we shall draw cream  and fatness.  Should I be moved
to join Blackie, I shall go upon my  knees and pray hard against temptation; although, since
the new  Version, I do not know the proper form of words.  The swollen,  childish, and pedantic
vanity that moved the said revisers to put  'bring'  for 'lead,' is a sort of literary fault
that calls for an  eternal hell; it may be quite a small place, a star of the least  magnitude,
and shabbily furnished; there shall -, -, the revisers  of the Bible and other absolutely loathsome
literary lepers, dwell  among broken pens, bad, GROUNDY ink and ruled blotting-paper made 
in France - all eagerly burning to write, and all inflicted with  incurable aphasia.  I should
not have thought upon that torture had  I not suffered it in moderation myself, but it is too
horrid even  for a hell; let's let 'em off with an eternal toothache.

All this talk is partly to persuade you that I write to you out of  good feeling only, which
is not the case.  I am a beggar:  ask  Dobson, Saintsbury, yourself, and any other of these
cheeses who  know something of the eighteenth century, what became of Jean  Cavalier between
his coming to England and his death in 1740.  Is  anything interesting known about him?  Whom
did he marry?  The  happy French, smilingly following one another in a long procession  headed
by the loud and empty Napoleon Peyrat, say, Olympe Dunoyer,  Voltaire's old flame.  Vacquerie
even thinks that they were rivals,  and is very French and very literary and very silly in
his  comments.  Now I may almost say it consists with my knowledge that  all this has not a
shadow to rest upon.  It is very odd and very  annoying; I have splendid materials for Cavalier
till he comes to  my own country; and there, though he continues to advance in the  service,
he becomes entirely invisible to me.  Any information  about him will be greatly welcome: 
I may mention that I know as  much as I desire about the other prophets, Marion, Fage, Cavalier
(de Sonne), my Cavalier's cousin, the unhappy Lions, and the  idiotic Mr. Lacy; so if any erudite
starts upon that track, you may  choke him off.  If you can find aught for me, or if you will
but  try, count on my undying gratitude.  Lang's 'Library' is very  pleasant reading.

My book will reach you soon, for I write about it to-day - Yours  ever,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

KINNAIRD COTTAGE, PITLOCHRY, PERTHSHIRE, JUNE 1881.

MY DEAR COLVIN, - THE BLACK MAN AND OTHER TALES.

The Black Man:

I. Thrawn Janet. II. The Devil on Cramond Sands. The Shadow on the Bed. The Body Snatchers.
The Case Bottle. The King's Horn. The Actor's Wife. The Wreck of the SUSANNA.

This is the new work on which I am engaged with Fanny; they are all  supernatural.  'Thrawn
Janet' is off to Stephen, but as it is all  in Scotch he cannot take it, I know.  It was SO
GOOD, I could not  help sending it.  My health improves.  We have a lovely spot here:   a little
green glen with a burn, a wonderful burn, gold and green  and snow-white, singing loud and
low in different steps of its  career, now pouring over miniature crags, now fretting itself
to  death in a maze of rocky stairs and pots; never was so sweet a  little river.  Behind,
great purple moorlands reaching to Ben  Vrackie.  Hunger lives here, alone with larks and sheep.
Sweet  spot, sweet spot.

Write me a word about Bob's professoriate and Landor, and what you  think of THE BLACK MAN.
The tales are all ghastly.  'Thrawn Janet'  frightened me to death.  There will maybe be another
- 'The Dead  Man's A Letter.'  I believe I shall recover; and I am, in this  blessed hope,
yours exuberantly,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO PROFESSOR AENEAS MACKAY

KINNAIRD COTTAGE, PITLOCHRY, WEDNESDAY, JUNE 21, 1881.

MY DEAR MACKAY, - What is this I hear? - that you are retiring from  your chair.  It is not,
I hope, from ill-health?

But if you are retiring, may I ask if you have promised your  support to any successor?  I
have a great mind to try.  The summer  session would suit me; the chair would suit me - if
only I would  suit it; I certainly should work it hard:  that I can promise.  I  only wish
it were a few years from now, when I hope to have  something more substantial to show for myself.
Up to the present  time, all that I have published, even bordering on history, has  been in
an occasional form, and I fear this is much against me.

Please let me hear a word in answer, and believe me, yours very  sincerely,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO PROFESSOR AENEAS MACKAY

KINNAIRD COTTAGE, PITLOCHRY, PERTHSHIRE [JUNE 1881].

MY DEAR MACKAY, - Thank you very much for your kind letter, and  still more for your good opinion.
You are not the only one who has  regretted my absence from your lectures; but you were to
me, then,  only a part of a mangle through which I was being slowly and  unwillingly dragged
- part of a course which I had not chosen -  part, in a word, of an organised boredom.

I am glad to have your reasons for giving up the chair; they are  partly pleasant, and partly
honourable to you.  And I think one may  say that every man who publicly declines a plurality
of offices,  makes it perceptibly more difficult for the next man to accept  them.

Every one tells me that I come too late upon the field, every one  being pledged, which, seeing
it is yet too early for any one to  come upon the field, I must regard as a polite evasion.
Yet all  advise me to stand, as it might serve me against the next vacancy.   So stand I shall,
unless things are changed.  As it is, with my  health this summer class is a great attraction;
it is perhaps the  only hope I may have of a permanent income.  I had supposed the  needs of
the chair might be met by choosing every year some period  of history in which questions of
Constitutional Law were involved;  but this is to look too far forward.

I understand (1ST) that no overt steps can be taken till your  resignation is accepted; and
(2ND) that in the meantime I may,  without offence, mention my design to stand.

If I am mistaken about these, please correct me, as I do not wish  to appear where I should not.

Again thanking you very heartily for your coals of fire I remain  yours very sincerely,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO EDMUND GOSSE

KINNAIRD COTTAGE, PITLOCHRY, JUNE 24, 1881.

MY DEAR GOSSE, - I wonder if I misdirected my last to you.  I begin  to fear it.  I hope, however,
this will go right.  I am in act to  do a mad thing - to stand for the Edinburgh Chair of History;
it is  elected for by the advocates, QUORUM PARS; I am told that I am too  late this year;
but advised on all hands to go on, as it is likely  soon to be once more vacant; and I shall
have done myself good for  the next time.  Now, if I got the thing (which I cannot, it  appears),
I believe, in spite of all my imperfections, I could be  decently effectual.  If you can think
so also, do put it in a  testimonial.

Heavens!  JE ME SAUVE, I have something else to say to you, but  after that (which is not a
joke) I shall keep it for another shoot.  - Yours testimonially,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

I surely need not add, dear lad, that if you don't feel like it,  you will only have to pacify
me by a long letter on general  subjects, when I shall hasten to respond in recompense for
my  assault upon the postal highway.

Letter:  TO EDMUND GOSSE

KINNAIRD COTTAGE, PITLOCHRY [JULY 1881].

MY DEAR WEG, - Many thanks for the testimonial; many thanks for  your blind, wondering letter;
many wishes, lastly, for your swift  recovery.  Insomnia is the opposite pole from my complaint;
which  brings with it a nervous lethargy, an unkind, unwholesome, and  ungentle somnolence,
fruitful in heavy heads and heavy eyes at  morning.  You cannot sleep; well, I can best explain
my state thus:   I cannot wake.  Sleep, like the lees of a posset, lingers all day,  lead-heavy,
in my knees and ankles.  Weight on the shoulders,  torpor on the brain.  And there is more
than too much of that from  an ungrateful hound who is now enjoying his first decently  competent
and peaceful weeks for close upon two years; happy in a  big brown moor behind him, and an
incomparable burn by his side;  happy, above all, in some work - for at last I am at work with
that  appetite and confidence that alone makes work supportable.

I told you I had something else to say.  I am very tedious - it is  another request.  In August
and a good part of September we shall  be in Braemar, in a house with some accommodation. 
Now Braemar is  a place patronised by the royalty of the Sister Kingdoms - Victoria  and the
Cairngorms, sir, honouring that countryside by their  conjunct presence.  This seems to me
the spot for A Bard.  Now can  you come to see us for a little while?  I can promise you, you
must  like my father, because you are a human being; you ought to like  Braemar, because of
your avocation; and you ought to like me,  because I like you; and again, you must like my
wife, because she  likes cats; and as for my mother - well, come and see, what do you  think?
that is best.  Mrs. Gosse, my wife tells me, will have other  fish to fry; and to be plain,
I should not like to ask her till I  had seen the house.  But a lone man I know we shall be
equal to.   QU'EN DIS TU?  VIENS. - Yours,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO P. G. HAMERTON

KINNAIRD COTTAGE, PITLOCHRY [JULY 1881].

MY DEAR MR. HAMMERTON, - (There goes the second M.; it is a  certainty.)  Thank you for your
prompt and kind answer, little as I  deserved it, though I hope to show you I was less undeserving
than  I seemed.  But just might I delete two words in your testimonial?   The two words 'and
legal' were unfortunately winged by chance  against my weakest spot, and would go far to damn me.

It was not my bliss that I was interested in when I was married; it  was a sort of marriage
IN EXTREMIS; and if I am where I am, it is  thanks to the care of that lady who married me
when I was a mere  complication of cough and bones, much fitter for an emblem of  mortality
than a bridegroom.

I had a fair experience of that kind of illness when all the women  (God bless them!) turn
round upon the streets and look after you  with a look that is only too kind not to be cruel.
I have had  nearly two years of more or less prostration.  I have done no work  whatever since
the February before last until quite of late.  To be  precise, until the beginning of last
month, exactly two essays.   All last winter I was at Davos; and indeed I am home here just
now  against the doctor's orders, and must soon be back again to that  unkindly haunt 'upon
the mountains visitant' - there goes no angel  there but the angel of death.  The deaths of
last winter are still  sore spots to me. . . . So, you see, I am not very likely to go on 
a 'wild expedition,' cis-Stygian at least.  The truth is, I am  scarce justified in standing
for the chair, though I hope you will  not mention this; and yet my health is one of my reasons,
for the  class is in summer.

I hope this statement of my case will make my long neglect appear  less unkind.  It was certainly
not because I ever forgot you, or  your unwonted kindness; and it was not because I was in
any sense  rioting in pleasures.

I am glad to hear the catamaran is on her legs again; you have my  warmest wishes for a good
cruise down the Saone; and yet there  comes some envy to that wish, for when shall I go cruising?
Here a  sheer hulk, alas! lies R. L. S.  But I will continue to hope for a  better time, canoes
that will sail better to the wind, and a river  grander than the Saone.

I heard, by the way, in a letter of counsel from a well-wisher, one  reason of my town's absurdity
about the chair of Art:  I fear it is  characteristic of her manners.  It was because you did
not call  upon the electors!

MY DEAR COLVIN, - I do believe I am better, mind and body; I am  tired just now, for I have
just been up the burn with Wogg, daily  growing better and boo'f'ler; so do not judge my state
by my style  in this.  I am working steady, four Cornhill pages scrolled every  day, besides
the correspondence about this chair, which is heavy in  itself.  My first story, 'Thrawn Janet,'
all in Scotch, is accepted  by Stephen; my second, 'The Body Snatchers,' is laid aside in a
justifiable disgust, the tale being horrid; my third, 'The Merry  Men,' I am more than half
through, and think real well of.  It is a  fantastic sonata about the sea and wrecks; and I
like it much above  all my other attempts at story-telling; I think it is strange; if  ever
I shall make a hit, I have the line now, as I believe.

Fanny has finished one of hers, 'The Shadow on the Bed,' and is now  hammering at a second,
for which we have 'no name' as yet - not by  Wilkie Collins.

TALES FOR WINTER NIGHTS.  Yes, that, I think, we will call the lot  of them when republished.

Why have you not sent me a testimonial?  Everybody else but you has  responded, and Symonds,
but I'm afraid he's ill.  Do think, too, if  anybody else would write me a testimonial.  I
am told quantity goes  far.  I have good ones from Rev. Professor Campbell, Professor  Meiklejohn,
Leslie Stephen, Lang, Gosse, and a very shaky one from  Hamerton.

Grant is an elector, so can't, but has written me kindly.  From  Tulloch I have not yet heard.
Do help me with suggestions.  This  old chair, with its 250 pounds and its light work, would
make me.

It looks as if we should take Cater's chalet after all; but O! to  go back to that place, it
seems cruel.  I have not yet received the  Landor; but it may be at home, detained by my mother,
who returns  to-morrow.

Believe me, dear Colvin, ever yours,

R. L. S.

Yours came; the class is in summer; many thanks for the  testimonial, it is bully; arrived
along with it another from  Symonds, also bully; he is ill, but not lungs, thank God - fever
got in Italy.  We HAVE taken Cater's chalet; so we are now the  aristo.'s of the valley.  There
is no hope for me, but if there  were, you would hear sweetness and light streaming from my lips.

'The Merry Men'

Chap. I. Eilean Aros.                    } II. What the Wreck had brought to Aros.  } Tip III.
Past and Present in Sandag Bay.     }  Top IV. The Gale.                            }   Tale.
V. A Man out of the Sea.                 }

Letter:  TO W. E. HENLEY

KINNAIRD COTTAGE, PITLOCHRY, JULY 1881.

MY DEAR HENLEY, - I hope, then, to have a visit from you.  If  before August, here; if later,
at Braemar.  Tupe!

And now, MON BON, I must babble about 'The Merry Men,' my favourite  work.  It is a fantastic
sonata about the sea and wrecks.  Chapter  I. 'Eilean Aros' - the island, the roost, the 'merry
men,' the  three people there living - sea superstitions.  Chapter II. 'What  the Wreck had
brought to Aros.'  Eh, boy? what had it?  Silver and  clocks and brocades, and what a conscience,
what a mad brain!   Chapter III. 'Past and Present in Sandag Bay' - the new wreck and  the
old - so old - the Armada treasure-ship, Santma Trinid - the  grave in the heather - strangers
there.  Chapter IV. 'The Gale' -  the doomed ship - the storm - the drunken madman on the head
-  cries in the night.  Chapter V. 'A Man out of the Sea.'  But I must  not breathe to you
my plot.  It is, I fancy, my first real shoot at  a story; an odd thing, sir, but, I believe,
my own, though there is  a little of Scott's PIRATE in it, as how should there not?  He had
the root of romance in such places.  Aros is Earraid, where I lived  lang syne; the Ross of
Grisapol is the Ross of Mull; Ben Ryan, Ben  More.  I have written to the middle of Chapter
IV.  Like enough,  when it is finished I shall discard all chapterings; for the thing  is written
straight through.  It must, unhappily, be re-written -  too well written not to be.

The chair is only three months in summer; that is why I try for it.   If I get it, which I
shall not, I should be independent at once.   Sweet thought.  I liked your Byron well; your
Berlioz better.  No  one would remark these cuts; even I, who was looking for it, knew  it
not at all to be a TORSO.  The paper strengthens me in my  recommendation to you to follow
Colvin's hint.  Give us an 1830;  you will do it well, and the subject smiles widely on the world:-

1830:  A CHAPTER OF ARTISTIC HISTORY, by William Ernest Henley (or  OF SOCIAL AND ARTISTIC
HISTORY, as the thing might grow to you).   Sir, you might be in the Athenaeum yet with that;
and, believe me,  you might and would be far better, the author of a readable book. -  Yours ever,

R. L. S.

The following names have been invented for Wogg by his dear papa:-

Grunty-pig (when he is scratched), Rose-mouth (when he comes flying up with his rose-leaf tongue
depending), and Hoofen-boots (when he has had his foots wet). How would TALES FOR WINTER NIGHTS do?

Letter:  TO W. E. HENLEY

PITLOCHRY, IF YOU PLEASE, [AUGUST] 1881.

DEAR HENLEY, - To answer a point or two.  First, the Spanish ship  was sloop-rigged and clumsy,
because she was fitted out by some  private adventurers, not over wealthy, and glad to take
what they  could get.  Is that not right?  Tell me if you think not.  That, at  least, was
how I meant it.  As for the boat-cloaks, I am afraid  they are, as you say, false imagination;
but I love the name,  nature, and being of them so dearly, that I feel as if I would  almost
rather ruin a story than omit the reference.  The proudest  moments of my life have been passed
in the stern-sheets of a boat  with that romantic garment over my shoulders.  This, without
prejudice to one glorious day when standing upon some water stairs  at Lerwick I signalled
with my pocket-handkerchief for a boat to  come ashore for me.  I was then aged fifteen or
sixteen; conceive  my glory.

Several of the phrases you object to are proper nautical, or long- shore phrases, and therefore,
I think, not out of place in this  long-shore story.  As for the two members which you thought
at  first so ill-united; I confess they seem perfectly so to me.  I  have chosen to sacrifice
a long-projected story of adventure  because the sentiment of that is identical with the sentiment
of  'My uncle.'  My uncle himself is not the story as I see it, only  the leading episode of
that story.  It's really a story of wrecks,  as they appear to the dweller on the coast.  It's
a view of the  sea.  Goodness knows when I shall be able to re-write; I must first  get over
this copper-headed cold.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

PITLOCHRY, AUGUST 1881.

MY DEAR COLVIN, - This is the first letter I have written this good  while.  I have had a brutal
cold, not perhaps very wisely treated;  lots of blood - for me, I mean.  I was so well, however,
before,  that I seem to be sailing through with it splendidly.  My appetite  never failed;
indeed, as I got worse, it sharpened - a sort of  reparatory instinct.  Now I feel in a fair
way to get round soon.

MONDAY, AUGUST (2ND, is it?). - We set out for the Spital of  Glenshee, and reach Braemar on
Tuesday.  The Braemar address we  cannot learn; it looks as if 'Braemar' were all that was
necessary;  if particular, you can address 17 Heriot Row.  We shall be  delighted to see you
whenever, and as soon as ever, you can make it  possible.

. . . I hope heartily you will survive me, and do not doubt it.   There are seven or eight
people it is no part of my scheme in life  to survive - yet if I could but heal me of my bellowses,
I could  have a jolly life - have it, even now, when I can work and stroll a  little, as I
have been doing till this cold.  I have so many things  to make life sweet to me, it seems
a pity I cannot have that other  one thing - health.  But though you will be angry to hear
it, I  believe, for myself at least, what is is best.  I believed it all  through my worst
days, and I am not ashamed to profess it now.

Landor has just turned up; but I had read him already.  I like him  extremely; I wonder if
the 'cuts' were perhaps not advantageous.   It seems quite full enough; but then you know I
am a  compressionist.

If I am to criticise, it is a little staid; but the classical is  apt to look so.  It is in
curious contrast to that inexpressive,  unplanned wilderness of Forster's; clear, readable,
precise, and  sufficiently human.  I see nothing lost in it, though I could have  wished, in
my Scotch capacity, a trifle clearer and fuller  exposition of his moral attitude, which is
not quite clear 'from  here.'

He and his tyrannicide!  I am in a mad fury about these explosions.   If that is the new world!
Damn O'Donovan Rossa; damn him behind  and before, above, below, and roundabout; damn, deracinate,
and  destroy him, root and branch, self and company, world without end.   Amen.  I write that
for sport if you like, but I will pray in  earnest, O Lord, if you cannot convert, kindly delete
him!

Stories naturally at - halt.  Henley has seen one and approves.  I  believe it to be good myself,
even real good.  He has also seen and  approved one of Fanny's.  It will snake a good volume.
We have now

Thrawn Janet (with Stephen), proof to-day. The Shadow on the Bed (Fanny's copying). The Merry
Men (scrolled). The Body Snatchers (scrolled).

IN GERMIS

The Travelling Companion. The Torn Surplice (NOT FINAL TITLE).

Yours ever,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO DR. ALEXANDER JAPP

THE COTTAGE, CASTLETON OF BRAEMAR, SUNDAY, AUGUST 1881.

MY DEAR SIR, - I should long ago have written to thank you for your  kind and frank letter;
but in my state of health papers are apt to  get mislaid, and your letter has been vainly hunted
for until this  (Sunday) morning.

I regret I shall not be able to see you in Edinburgh; one visit to  Edinburgh has already cost
me too dear in that invaluable  particular health; but if it should be at all possible for
you to  push on as far as Braemar, I believe you would find an attentive  listener, and I can
offer you a bed, a drive, and necessary food,  etc.

If, however, you should not be able to come thus far, I can promise  you two things:  First,
I shall religiously revise what I have  written, and bring out more clearly the point of view
from which I  regarded Thoreau; second, I shall in the Preface record your  objection.

The point of view (and I must ask you not to forget that any such  short paper is essentially
only a SECTION THROUGH a man) was this:   I desired to look at the man through his books. 
Thus, for  instance, when I mentioned his return to the pencil-making, I did  it only in passing
(perhaps I was wrong), because it seemed to me  not an illustration of his principles, but
a brave departure from  them.  Thousands of such there were I do not doubt; still, they  might
be hardly to my purpose, though, as you say so, some of them  would be.

Our difference as to pity I suspect was a logomachy of my making.   No pitiful acts on his
part would surprise me; I know he would be  more pitiful in practice than most of the whiners;
but the spirit  of that practice would still seem to be unjustly described by the  word pity.

When I try to be measured, I find myself usually suspected of a  sneaking unkindness for my
subject; but you may be sure, sir, I  would give up most other things to be so good a man as
Thoreau.   Even my knowledge of him leads me thus far.

Should you find yourself able to push on to Braemar - it may even  be on your way - believe
me, your visit will be most welcome.  The  weather is cruel, but the place is, as I dare say
you know, the  very 'wale' of Scotland - bar Tummelside. - Yours very sincerely,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO MRS. SITWELL

THE COTTAGE, CASTLETON OF BRAEMAR, AUGUST 1881.

... WELL, I have been pretty mean, but I have not yet got over my  cold so completely as to
have recovered much energy.  It is really  extraordinary that I should have recovered as well
as I have in  this blighting weather; the wind pipes, the rain comes in squalls,  great black
clouds are continually overhead, and it is as cold as  March.  The country is delightful, more
cannot be said; it is very  beautiful, a perfect joy when we get a blink of sun to see it in.
The Queen knows a thing or two, I perceive; she has picked out the  finest habitable spot in
Britain.

I have done no work, and scarce written a letter for three weeks,  but I think I should soon
begin again; my cough is now very  trifling.  I eat well, and seem to have lost but I little
flesh in  the meanwhile.  I was WONDERFULLY well before I caught this horrid  cold.  I never
thought I should have been as well again; I really  enjoyed life and work; and, of course,
I now have a good hope that  this may return.

I suppose you heard of our ghost stories.  They are somewhat  delayed by my cold and a bad
attack of laziness, embroidery, etc.,  under which Fanny had been some time prostrate.  It
is horrid that  we can get no better weather.  I did not get such good accounts of  you as
might have been.  You must imitate me.  I am now one of the  most conscientious people at trying
to get better you ever saw.  I  have a white hat, it is much admired; also a plaid, and a heavy
stoop; so I take my walks abroad, witching the world.

Last night I was beaten at chess, and am still grinding under the  blow. - Ever your faithful
friend,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO EDMUND GOSSE

THE COTTAGE (LATE THE LATE MISS M'GREGOR'S), CASTLETON OF BRAEMAR,  AUGUST 10, 1881.

MY DEAR GOSSE, - Come on the 24th, there is a dear fellow.   Everybody else wants to come later,
and it will be a godsend for,  sir - Yours sincerely.

You can stay as long as you behave decently, and are not sick of,  sir - Your obedient, humble
servant.

We have family worship in the home of, sir - Yours respectfully.

Braemar is a fine country, but nothing to (what you will also see)  the maps of, sir - Yours
in the Lord.

A carriage and two spanking hacks draw up daily at the hour of two  before the house of, sir
- Yours truly.

The rain rains and the winds do beat upon the cottage of the late  Miss Macgregor and of, sir
- Yours affectionately.

It is to be trusted that the weather may improve ere you know the  halls of, sir - Yours emphatically.

All will be glad to welcome you, not excepting, sir - Yours ever.

You will now have gathered the lamentable intellectual collapse of,  sir - Yours indeed.

And nothing remains for me but to sign myself, sir - Yours,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

N.B. - Each of these clauses has to be read with extreme glibness,  coming down whack upon
the 'Sir.'  This is very important.  The  fine stylistic inspiration will else be lost.

I commit the man who made, the man who sold, and the woman who  supplied me with my present
excruciating gilt nib to that place  where the worm never dies.

The reference to a deceased Highland lady (tending as it does to  foster unavailing sorrow)
may be with advantage omitted from the  address, which would therefore run - The Cottage, Castleton
of  Braemar.

Letter:  TO EDMUND GOSSE

THE COTTAGE, CASTLETON OF BRAEMAR, AUGUST 19, 1881.

IF you had an uncle who was a sea captain and went to the North  Pole, you had better bring
his outfit.  VERBUM SAPIENTIBUS.  I look  towards you.

R. L. STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO EDMUND GOSSE

[BRAEMAR], AUGUST 19, 1881.

MY DEAR WEG, - I have by an extraordinary drollery of Fortune sent  off to you by this day's
post a P. C. inviting you to appear in  sealskin.  But this had reference to the weather, and
not at all,  as you may have been led to fancy, to our rustic raiment of an  evening.

As to that question, I would deal, in so far as in me lies, fairly  with all men.  We are not
dressy people by nature; but it sometimes  occurs to us to entertain angels.  In the country,
I believe, even  angels may be decently welcomed in tweed; I have faced many great  personages,
for my own part, in a tasteful suit of sea-cloth with  an end of carpet pending from my gullet.
Still, we do maybe twice  a summer burst out in the direction of blacks . . . and yet we do
it seldom. . . . In short, let your own heart decide, and the  capacity of your portmanteau.
If you came in camel's hair, you  would still, although conspicuous, be welcome.

The sooner the better after Tuesday. - Yours ever,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO W. E. HENLEY

BRAEMAR [AUGUST 25, 1881].

MY DEAR HENLEY, - Of course I am a rogue.  Why, Lord, it's known,  man; but you should remember
I have had a horrid cold.  Now, I'm  better, I think; and see here - nobody, not you, nor Lang,
nor the  devil, will hurry me with our crawlers.  They are coming.  Four of  them are as good
as done, and the rest will come when ripe; but I  am now on another lay for the moment, purely
owing to Lloyd, this  one; but I believe there's more coin in it than in any amount of  crawlers:
now, see here, 'The Sea Cook, or Treasure Island:  A  Story for Boys.'

If this don't fetch the kids, why, they have gone rotten since my  day.  Will you be surprised
to learn that it is about Buccaneers,  that it begins in the ADMIRAL BENBOW public-house on
Devon coast,  that it's all about a map, and a treasure, and a mutiny, and a  derelict ship,
and a current, and a fine old Squire Trelawney (the  real Tre, purged of literature and sin,
to suit the infant mind),  and a doctor, and another doctor, and a sea-cook with one leg, and
a sea-song with the chorus 'Yo-ho-ho-and a bottle of rum' (at the  third Ho you heave at the
capstan bars), which is a real  buccaneer's song, only known to the crew of the late Captain
Flint  (died of rum at Key West, much regretted, friends will please  accept this intimation);
and lastly, would you be surprised to  hear, in this connection, the name of ROUTLEDGE?  That's
the kind  of man I am, blast your eyes.  Two chapters are written, and have  been tried on
Lloyd with great success; the trouble is to work it  off without oaths.  Buccaneers without
oaths - bricks without  straw.  But youth and the fond parient have to be consulted.

And now look here - this is next day - and three chapters are  written and read.  (Chapter
I. The Old Sea-dog at the ADMIRAL  BENBOW.  Chapter II. Black Dog appears and disappears. 
Chapter  III. The Black Spot)  All now heard by Lloyd, F., and my father and  mother, with
high approval.  It's quite silly and horrid fun, and  what I want is the BEST book about the
Buccaneers that can be had -  the latter B's above all, Blackbeard and sich, and get Nutt or
Bain  to send it skimming by the fastest post.  And now I know you'll  write to me, for 'The
Sea Cook's' sake.

Your 'Admiral Guinea' is curiously near my line, but of course I'm  fooling; and your Admiral
sounds like a shublime gent.  Stick to  him like wax - he'll do.  My Trelawney is, as I indicate,
several  thousand sea-miles off the lie of the original or your Admiral  Guinea; and besides,
I have no more about him yet but one mention  of his name, and I think it likely he may turn
yet farther from the  model in the course of handling.  A chapter a day I mean to do;  they
are short; and perhaps in a month the 'Sea Cook' may to  Routledge go, yo-ho-ho and a bottle
of rum!  My Trelawney has a  strong dash of Landor, as I see him from here.  No women in the
story, Lloyd's orders; and who so blithe to obey?  It's awful fun  boys' stories; you just
indulge the pleasure of your heart, that's  all; no trouble, no strain.  The only stiff thing
is to get it  ended - that I don't see, but I look to a volcano.  O sweet, O  generous, O human
toils.  You would like my blind beggar in Chapter  III. I believe; no writing, just drive along
as the words come and  the pen will scratch!

R. L. S.

Author of BOYS' STORIES.

Letter:  TO DR. ALEXANDER JAPP

BRAEMAR, 1881.

MY DEAR DR. JAPP, - My father has gone, but I think may take it  upon me to ask you to keep
the book.  Of all things you could do to  endear yourself to me, you have done the best, for
my father and  you have taken a fancy to each other.

I do not know how to thank you for all your kind trouble in the  matter of 'The Sea-Cook,'
but I am not unmindful.  My health is  still poorly, and I have added intercostal rheumatism
- a new  attraction - which sewed me up nearly double for two days, and  still gives me a list
to starboard - let us be ever nautical!

I do not think with the start I have there will be any difficulty  in letting Mr. Henderson
go ahead whenever he likes.  I will write  my story up to its legitimate conclusion; and then
we shall be in a  position to judge whether a sequel would be desirable, and I would  then
myself know better about its practicability from the story- teller's point of view. - Yours
ever very sincerely,

R. L. STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO W. E. HENLEY

BRAEMAR, SEPTEMBER 1881.

MY DEAR HENLEY, - Thanks for your last.  The 100 pounds fell  through, or dwindled at least
into somewhere about 30 pounds.   However, that I've taken as a mouthful, so you may look out
for  'The Sea Cook, or Treasure Island:  A Tale of the Buccaneers,' in  YOUNG FOLKS.  (The
terms are 2 pounds, 10s. a page of 4500 words;  that's not noble, is it?  But I have my copyright
safe.  I don't  get illustrated - a blessing; that's the price I have to pay for my  copyright.)

I'll make this boys' book business pay; but I have to make a  beginning.  When I'm done with
YOUNG FOLKS, I'll try Routledge or  some one.  I feel pretty sure the 'Sea Cook' will do to
reprint,  and bring something decent at that.

Japp is a good soul.  The poet was very gay and pleasant.  He told  me much:  he is simply
the most active young man in England, and  one of the most intelligent.  'He shall o'er Europe,
shall o'er  earth extend.' (13)  He is now extending over adjacent parts of  Scotland.

I propose to follow up the 'Sea Cook' at proper intervals by 'Jerry  Abershaw:  A Tale of Putney
Heath' (which or its site I must  visit), 'The Leading Light:  A Tale of the Coast,' 'The Squaw
Men:   or the Wild West,' and other instructive and entertaining work.   'Jerry Abershaw' should
be good, eh?  I love writing boys' books.   This first is only an experiment; wait till you
see what I can make  'em with my hand in.  I'll be the Harrison Ainsworth of the future;  and
a chalk better by St. Christopher; or at least as good.  You'll  see that even by the 'Sea Cook.'

Jerry Abershaw - O what a title!  Jerry Abershaw:  d-n it, sir,  it's a poem.  The two most
lovely words in English; and what a  sentiment!  Hark you, how the hoofs ring!  Is this a blacksmith's?
No, it's a wayside inn.  Jerry Abershaw.  'It was a clear, frosty  evening, not 100 miles from
Putney,' etc.  Jerry Abershaw.  Jerry  Abershaw.  Jerry Abershaw.  The 'Sea Cook' is now in
its sixteenth  chapter, and bids for well up in the thirties.  Each three chapters  is worth
2 pounds, 10s.  So we've 12 pounds, 10s. already.

Don't read Marryat's' PIRATE anyhow; it is written in sand with a  salt-spoon:  arid, feeble,
vain, tottering production.  But then  we're not always all there.  He was all somewhere else
that trip.   It's DAMNABLE, Henley.  I don't go much on the 'Sea Cook'; but,  Lord, it's a
little fruitier than the PIRATE by Cap'n. Marryat.

Since this was written 'The Cook' is in his nineteenth chapter.   Yo-heave ho!

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO THOMAS STEVENSON

[CHALET AM STEIN, DAVOS, AUTUMN 1881.]

MY DEAR FATHER, - It occurred to me last night in bed that I could  write

The Murder of Red Colin, A Story of the Forfeited Estates.

This I have all that is necessary for, with the following  exceptions:-

TRIALS OF THE SONS OF ROY ROB WITH ANECDOTES:  Edinburgh, 1818, and

The second volume of BLACKWOOD'S MAGAZINE.

You might also look in Arnot's CRIMINAL TRIALS up in my room, and  see what observations he
has on the case (Trial of James Stewart in  Appin for murder of Campbell of Glenure, 1752);
if he has none,  perhaps you could see - O yes, see if Burton has it in his two  vols. of trial
stories.  I hope he hasn't; but care not; do it over  again anyway.

The two named authorities I must see.  With these, I could soon  pull off this article; and
it shall be my first for the electors. -  Ever affectionate son,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO P. G. HAMERTON

CHALET AM STEIN, DAVOS, AUTUMN [1881].

MY DEAR MR. HAMERTON, - My conscience has long been smiting me,  till it became nearly chronic.
My excuses, however, are many and  not pleasant.  Almost immediately after I last wrote to
you, I had  a hemorreage (I can't spell it), was badly treated by a doctor in  the country,
and have been a long while picking up - still, in  fact, have much to desire on that side.
Next, as soon as I got  here, my wife took ill; she is, I fear, seriously so; and this  combination
of two invalids very much depresses both.

I have a volume of republished essays coming out with Chatto and  Windus; I wish they would
come, that my wife might have the reviews  to divert her.  Otherwise my news is NIL.  I am
up here in a little  chalet, on the borders of a pinewood, overlooking a great part of  the
Davos Thal, a beautiful scene at night, with the moon upon the  snowy mountains, and the lights
warmly shining in the village.  J.  A. Symonds is next door to me, just at the foot of my Hill
Difficulty (this you will please regard as the House Beautiful),  and his society is my great
stand-by.

Did you see I had joined the band of the rejected?  'Hardly one of  us,' said my CONFRERES
at the bar.

I was blamed by a common friend for asking you to give me a  testimonial; in the circumstances
he thought it was indelicate.   Lest, by some calamity, you should ever have felt the same
way, I  must say in two words how the matter appeared to me.  That silly  story of the election
altered in no tittle the value of your  testimony:  so much for that.  On the other hand, it
led me to take  quite a particular pleasure in asking you to give it; and so much  for the
other.  I trust, even if you cannot share it, you will  understand my view.

I am in treaty with Bentley for a life of Hazlitt; I hope it will  not fall through, as I love
the subject, and appear to have found a  publisher who loves it also.  That, I think, makes
things more  pleasant.  You know I am a fervent Hazlittite; I mean regarding him  as THE English
writer who has had the scantiest justice.  Besides  which, I am anxious to write biography;
really, if I understand  myself in quest of profit, I think it must be good to live with  another
man from birth to death.  You have tried it, and know.

How has the cruising gone?  Pray remember me to Mrs. Hamerton and  your son, and believe me,
yours very sincerely,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO CHARLES BAXTER

[CHALET AM STEIN], DAVOS, DECEMBER 5, 1881.

MY DEAR CHARLES, - We have been in miserable case here; my wife  worse and worse; and now sent
away with Lloyd for sick nurse, I not  being allowed to go down.  I do not know what is to
become of us;  and you may imagine how rotten I have been feeling, and feel now,  alone with
my weasel-dog and my German maid, on the top of a hill  here, heavy mist and thin snow all
about me, and the devil to pay  in general.  I don't care so much for solitude as I used to;
results, I suppose, of marriage.

Pray write me something cheery.  A little Edinburgh gossip, in  Heaven's name.  Ah! what would
I not give to steal this evening  with you through the big, echoing, college archway, and away
south  under the street lamps, and away to dear Brash's, now defunct!  But  the old time is
dead also, never, never to revive.  It was a sad  time too, but so gay and so hopeful, and
we had such sport with all  our low spirits and all our distresses, that it looks like a kind
of lamplit fairyland behind me.  O for ten Edinburgh minutes -  sixpence between us, and the
ever-glorious Lothian Road, or dear  mysterious Leith Walk!  But here, a sheer hulk, lies poor
Tom  Bowling; here in this strange place, whose very strangeness would  have been heaven to
him then; and aspires, yes, C. B., with tears,  after the past.  See what comes of being left
alone.  Do you  remember Brash? the sheet of glass that we followed along George  Street? 
Granton? the blight at Bonny mainhead? the compass near  the sign of the TWINKLING EYE? the
night I lay on the pavement in  misery?

I swear it by the eternal sky Johnson - nor Thomson - ne'er shall die!

Yet I fancy they are dead too; dead like Brash.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

CHALET BUOL, DAVOS-PLATZ, DECEMBER 26, 1881.

MY DEAR MOTHER, - Yesterday, Sunday and Christmas, we finished this  eventful journey by a
drive in an OPEN sleigh - none others were to  be had - seven hours on end through whole forests
of Christmas  trees.  The cold was beyond belief.  I have often suffered less at  a dentist's.
It was a clear, sunny day, but the sun even at noon  falls, at this season, only here and there
into the Prattigau.  I  kept up as long as I could in an imitation of a street singer:-

Away, ye gay landscapes, ye gardens of roses, etc.

At last Lloyd remarked, a blue mouth speaking from a corpse- coloured face, 'You seem to be
the only one with any courage left?'   And, do you know, with that word my courage disappeared,
and I made  the rest of the stage in the same dumb wretchedness as the others.   My only terror
was lest Fanny should ask for brandy, or laudanum,  or something.  So awful was the idea of
putting my hands out, that  I half thought I would refuse.

Well, none of us are a penny the worse, Lloyd's cold better; I,  with a twinge of the rheumatic;
and Fanny better than her ordinary.

General conclusion between Lloyd and me as to the journey:  A  prolonged visit to the dentist's,
complicated with the fear of  death.

Never, O never, do you get me there again. - Ever affectionate son,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO ALISON CUNNINGHAM

[CHALET AM STEIN, DAVOS-PLATZ, FEBRUARY 1882.]

MY DEAR CUMMY, - My wife and I are very much vexed to hear you are  still unwell.  We are both
keeping far better; she especially seems  quite to have taken a turn - THE turn, we shall hope.
Please let  us know how you get on, and what has been the matter with you;  Braemar I believe
- the vile hole.  You know what a lazy rascal I  am, so you won't be surprised at a short letter,
I know; indeed,  you will be much more surprised at my having had the decency to  write at
all.  We have got rid of our young, pretty, and  incompetent maid; and now we have a fine,
canny, twinkling, shrewd,  auld-farrant peasant body, who gives us good food and keeps us in
good spirits.  If we could only understand what she says!  But she  speaks Davos language,
which is to German what Aberdeen-awa' is to  English, so it comes heavy.

MY DEAR CHARLES, - Your most welcome letter has raised clouds of  sulphur from my horizon. . . .

I am glad you have gone back to your music.  Life is a poor thing,  I am more and more convinced,
without an art, that always waits for  us and is always new.  Art and marriage are two very
good stand- by's.

In an article which will appear sometime in the CORNHILL, 'Talk and  Talkers,' and where I
have full-lengthened the conversation of Bob,  Henley, Jenkin, Simpson, Symonds, and Gosse,
I have at the end one  single word about yourself.  It may amuse you to see it.

We are coming to Scotland after all, so we shall meet, which  pleases me, and I do believe
I am strong enough to stand it this  time.  My knee is still quite lame.

My wife is better again. . . . But we take it by turns; it is the  dog that is ill now. - Ever
yours,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO W. E. HENLEY

[CHALET AM STEIN, DAVOS-PLATZ, FEBRUARY 1882.]

MY DEAR HENLEY, - Here comes the letter as promised last night.   And first two requests: 
Pray send the enclosed to c/o Blackmore's  publisher, 'tis from Fanny; second, pray send us
Routledge's  shilling book, Edward Mayhew's DOGS, by return if it can be  managed.

Our dog is very ill again, poor fellow, looks very ill too, only  sleeps at night because of
morphine; and we do not know what ails  him, only fear it to be canker of the ear.  He makes
a bad, black  spot in our life, poor, selfish, silly, little tangle; and my wife  is wretched.
Otherwise she is better, steadily and slowly moving  up through all her relapses.  My knee
never gets the least better;  it hurts to-night, which it has not done for long.  I do not
suppose my doctor knows any least thing about it.  He says it is a  nerve that I struck, but
I assure you he does not know.

I have just finished a paper, 'A Gossip on Romance,' in which I  have tried to do, very popularly,
about one-half of the matter you  wanted me to try.  In a way, I have found an answer to the
question.  But the subject was hardly fit for so chatty a paper,  and it is all loose ends.
If ever I do my book on the Art of  Literature, I shall gather them together and be clear.

To-morrow, having once finished off the touches still due on this,  I shall tackle SAN FRANCISCO
for you.  Then the tide of work will  fairly bury me, lost to view and hope.  You have no idea
what it  costs me to wring out my work now.  I have certainly been a  fortnight over this Romance,
sometimes five hours a day; and yet it  is about my usual length - eight pages or so, and would
be a d-d  sight the better for another curry.  But I do not think I can  honestly re-write
it all; so I call it done, and shall only  straighten words in a revision currently.

I had meant to go on for a great while, and say all manner of  entertaining things.  But all's
gone.  I am now an idiot. - Yours  ever,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO W. E. HENLEY

[CHALET AM STEIN, DAVOS, MARCH 1882.]

MY DEAR HENLEY, - . . . Last night we had a dinner-party,  consisting of the John Addington,
curry, onions (lovely onions),  and beefsteak.  So unusual is any excitement, that F. and I
feel  this morning as if we had been to a coronation.  However I must, I  suppose, write.

I was sorry about your female contributor squabble.  'Tis very  comic, but really unpleasant.
But what care I?  Now that I  illustrate my own books, I can always offer you a situation in
our  house - S.  L. Osbourne and Co.  As an author gets a halfpenny a  copy of verses, and
an artist a penny a cut, perhaps a proof-reader  might get several pounds a year.

O that Coronation!  What a shouting crowd there was!  I obviously  got a firework in each eye.
The king looked very magnificent, to  be sure; and that great hall where we feasted on seven
hundred  delicate foods, and drank fifty royal wines - QUEL COUP D'OEIL! but  was it not over-done,
even for a coronation - almost a vulgar  luxury?  And eleven is certainly too late to begin
dinner.  (It was  really 6.30 instead of 5.30.)

Your list of books that Cassells have refused in these weeks is not  quite complete; they also
refused:-

1. Six undiscovered Tragedies, one romantic Comedy, a fragment of  Journal extending over six
years, and an unfinished Autobiography  reaching up to the first performance of King John.
By William  Shakespeare.

2. The journals and Private Correspondence of David, King of  Israel.

3. Poetical Works of Arthur, Iron Dook of Wellington, including a  Monody on Napoleon.

4. Eight books of an unfinished novel, SOLOMON CRABB.  By Henry  Fielding.

5. Stevenson's Moral Emblems.

You also neglected to mention, as PER CONTRA, that they had during  the same time accepted
and triumphantly published Brown's HANDBOOK  TO CRICKET, Jones's FIRST FRENCH READER, and Robinson's
PICTURESQUE  CHESHIRE, uniform with the same author's STATELY HOMES OF SALOP.

O if that list could come true!  How we would tear at Solomon  Crabb!  O what a bully, bully,
bully business.  Which would you  read first - Shakespeare's autobiography, or his journals?
What  sport the monody on Napoleon would be - what wooden verse, what  stucco ornament!  I
should read both the autobiography and the  journals before I looked at one of the plays, beyond
the names of  them, which shows that Saintsbury was right, and I do care more for  life than
for poetry.  No - I take it back.  Do you know one of the  tragedies - a Bible tragedy too
- DAVID - was written in his third  period - much about the same time as Lear?  The comedy,
APRIL RAIN,  is also a late work.  BECKETT is a fine ranting piece, like RICHARD  II., but
very fine for the stage.  Irving is to play it this autumn  when I'm in town; the part rather
suits him - but who is to play  Henry - a tremendous creation, sir.  Betterton in his private
journal seems to have seen this piece; and he says distinctly that  Henry is the best part
in any play.  'Though,' he adds, 'how it be  with the ancient plays I know not.  But in this
I have ever feared  to do ill, and indeed will not be persuaded to that undertaking.'   So
says Betterton.  RUFUS is not so good; I am not pleased with  RUFUS; plainly a RIFACCIMENTO
of some inferior work; but there are  some damned fine lines.  As for the purely satiric ill-minded
ABELARD AND HELOISE, another TROILUS, QUOI! it is not pleasant,  truly, but what strength,
what verve, what knowledge of life, and  the Canon!  What a finished, humorous, rich picture
is the Canon!   Ah, there was nobody like Shakespeare.  But what I like is the  David and Absalom
business.  Absalom is so well felt - you love him  as David did; David's speech is one roll
of royal music from the  first act to the fifth.

I am enjoying SOLOMON CRABB extremely; Solomon's capital adventure  with the two highwaymen
and Squire Trecothick and Parson Vance; it  is as good, I think, as anything in Joseph Andrews.
I have just  come to the part where the highwayman with the black patch over his  eye has tricked
poor Solomon into his place, and the squire and the  parson are hearing the evidence.  Parson
Vance is splendid.  How  good, too, is old Mrs. Crabb and the coastguardsman in the third 
chapter, or her delightful quarrel with the sexton of Seaham; Lord  Conybeare is surely a little
overdone; but I don't know either;  he's such damned fine sport.  Do you like Sally Barnes?
I'm in  love with her.  Constable Muddon is as good as Dogberry and Verges  put together; when
he takes Solomon to the cage, and the highwayman  gives him Solomon's own guinea for his pains,
and kisses Mrs.  Muddon, and just then up drives Lord Conybeare, and instead of  helping Solomon,
calls him all the rascals in Christendom - O Henry  Fielding, Henry Fielding!  Yet perhaps
the scenes at Seaham are the  best.  But I'm bewildered among all these excellences.

Stay, cried a voice that made the welkin crack - This here's a dream, return and study BLACK!

- Ever yours,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO ALEXANDER IRELAND

[CHALET AM STEIN, DAVOS, MARCH 1882.]

MY DEAR SIR, - This formidable paper need not alarm you; it argues  nothing beyond penury of
other sorts, and is not at all likely to  lead me into a long letter.  If I were at all grateful
it would,  for yours has just passed for me a considerable part of a stormy  evening.  And
speaking of gratitude, let me at once and with  becoming eagerness accept your kind invitation
to Bowdon.  I shall  hope, if we can agree as to dates when I am nearer hand, to come to  you
sometime in the month of May.  I was pleased to hear you were a  Scot; I feel more at home
with my compatriots always; perhaps the  more we are away, the stronger we feel that bond.

You ask about Davos; I have discoursed about it already, rather  sillily I think, in the PALL
MALL, and I mean to say no more, but  the ways of the Muse are dubious and obscure, and who
knows?  I may  be wiled again.  As a place of residence, beyond a splendid  climate, it has
to my eyes but one advantage - the neighbourhood of  J. A. Symonds - I dare say you know his
work, but the man is far  more interesting.  It has done me, in my two winters' Alpine exile,
much good; so much, that I hope to leave it now for ever, but would  not be understood to boast.
In my present unpardonably crazy  state, any cold might send me skipping, either back to Davos,
or  further off.  Let us hope not.  It is dear; a little dreary; very  far from many things
that both my taste and my needs prompt me to  seek; and altogether not the place that I should
choose of my free  will.

I am chilled by your description of the man in question, though I  had almost argued so much
from his cold and undigested volume.  If  the republication does not interfere with my publisher,
it will not  interfere with me; but there, of course, comes the hitch.  I do not  know Mr.
Bentley, and I fear all publishers like the devil from  legend and experience both.  However,
when I come to town, we  shall, I hope, meet and understand each other as well as author and
publisher ever do.  I liked his letters; they seemed hearty, kind,  and personal.  Still -
I am notedly suspicious of the trade - your  news of this republication alarms me.

The best of the present French novelists seems to me, incomparably,  Daudet.  LES ROIS EN EXIL
comes very near being a masterpiece.  For  Zola I have no toleration, though the curious, eminently
bourgeois,  and eminently French creature has power of a kind.  But I would he  were deleted.
I would not give a chapter of old Dumas (meaning  himself, not his collaborators) for the whole
boiling of the Zolas.   Romance with the smallpox - as the great one:  diseased anyway and
blackhearted and fundamentally at enmity with joy.

I trust that Mrs. Ireland does not object to smoking; and if you  are a teetotaller, I beg
you to mention it before I come - I have  all the vices; some of the virtues also, let us hope
- that, at  least, of being a Scotchman, and yours very sincerely,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

P.S. - My father was in the old High School the last year, and  walked in the procession to
the new.  I blush to own I am an  Academy boy; it seems modern, and smacks not of the soil.

P.P.S. - I enclose a good joke - at least, I think so - my first  efforts at wood engraving
printed by my stepson, a boy of thirteen.   I will put in also one of my later attempts.  I
have been nine days  at the art - observe my progress.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO EDMUND GOSSE.

DAVOS, MARCH 23, 1882.

MY DEAR WEG, - And I had just written the best note to Mrs. Gosse  that was in my power.  Most
blameable.

I now send (for Mrs. Gosse).

BLACK CANYON.

Also an advertisement of my new appearance as poet (bard, rather)  and hartis on wood.  The
cut represents the Hero and the Eagle, and  is emblematic of Cortez first viewing the Pacific
Ocean, which  (according to the bard Keats) it took place in Darien.  The cut is  much admired
for the sentiment of discovery, the manly proportions  of the voyager, and the fine impression
of tropical scenes and the  untrodden WASTE, so aptly rendered by the hartis.

I would send you the book; but I declare I'm ruined.  I got a penny  a cut and a halfpenny
a set of verses from the flint-hearted  publisher, and only one specimen copy, as I'm a sinner.
- was  apostolic alongside of Osbourne.

I hope you will be able to decipher this, written at steam speed  with a breaking pen, the
hotfast postman at my heels.  No excuse,  says you.  None, sir, says I, and touches my 'at
most civil  (extraordinary evolution of pen, now quite doomed - to resume - )   I have not
put pen to the Bloody Murder yet.  But it is early on my  list; and when once I get to it,
three weeks should see the last  bloodstain - maybe a fortnight.  For I am beginning to combine
an  extraordinary laborious slowness while at work, with the most  surprisingly quick results
in the way of finished manuscripts.  How  goes Gray?  Colvin is to do Keats.  My wife is still
not well. -  Yours ever,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO DR. ALEXANDER JAPP

[CHALET AM STEIN, DAVOS, MARCH 1882.]

MY DEAR DR. JAPP, - You must think me a forgetful rogue, as indeed  I am; for I have but now
told my publisher to send you a copy of  the FAMILIAR STUDIES.  However, I own I have delayed
this letter  till I could send you the enclosed.  Remembering the nights at  Braemar when we
visited the Picture Gallery, I hoped they might  amuse you.  You see, we do some publishing
hereaway.  I shall hope  to see you in town in May. - Always yours faithfully,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO DR. ALEXANDER JAPP

CHALET BUOL, DAVOS, APRIL 1, 1882.

MY DEAR DR. JAPP, - A good day to date this letter, which is in  fact a confession of incapacity.
During my wife's illness I  somewhat lost my head, and entirely lost a great quire of corrected
proofs.  This is one of the results; I hope there are none more  serious.  I was never so sick
of any volume as I was of that; was  continually receiving fresh proofs with fresh infinitesimal
difficulties.  I was ill - I did really fear my wife was worse than  ill.  Well, it's out now;
and though I have observed several  carelessnesses myself, and now here's another of your finding
- of  which, indeed, I ought to be ashamed - it will only justify the  sweeping humility of
the Preface.

Symonds was actually dining with us when your letter came, and I  communicated your remarks.
. . . He is a far better and more  interesting thing than any of his books.

The Elephant was my wife's; so she is proportionately elate you  should have picked it out
for praise - from a collection, let me  add, so replete with the highest qualities of art.

My wicked carcase, as John Knox calls it, holds together  wonderfully.  In addition to many
other things, and a volume of  travel, I find I have written, since December, 90 CORNHILL pages
of  magazine work - essays and stories:  40,000 words, and I am none  the worse - I am the
better.  I begin to hope I may, if not outlive  this wolverine upon my shoulders, at least
carry him bravely like  Symonds and Alexander Pope.  I begin to take a pride in that hope.

I shall be much interested to see your criticisms; you might  perhaps send them to me.  I believe
you know that is not dangerous;  one folly I have not - I am not touchy under criticism.

Lloyd and my wife both beg to be remembered; and Lloyd sends as a  present a work of his own.
I hope you feel flattered; for this is  SIMPLY THE FIRST TIME HE HAS EVER GIVEN ONE AWAY. 
I have to buy my  own works, I can tell you. - Yours very sincerely,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO W. E. HENLEY

[CHALET AM STEIN, DAVOS, APRIL 1882.]

MY DEAR HENLEY, - I hope and hope for a long letter - soon I hope  to be superseded by long
talks - and it comes not.  I remember I  have never formally thanked you for that hundred quid,
nor in  general for the introduction to Chatto and Windus, and continue to  bury you in copy
as if you were my private secretary.  Well, I am  not unconscious of it all; but I think least
said is often best,  generally best; gratitude is a tedious sentiment, it's not ductile,  not
dramatic.

If Chatto should take both, CUI DEDICARE?  I am running out of  dedikees; if I do, the whole
fun of writing is stranded.  TREASURE  ISLAND, if it comes out, and I mean it shall, of course
goes to  Lloyd.  Lemme see, I have now dedicated to

W. E. H. [William Ernest Henley].

S. C. [Sidney Colvin].

T. S. [Thomas Stevenson].

Simp. [Sir Walter Simpson].

There remain:  C. B., the Williamses - you know they were the  parties who stuck up for us
about our marriage, and Mrs. W. was my  guardian angel, and our Best Man and Bridesmaid rolled
in one, and  the only third of the wedding party - my sister-in-law, who is  booked for PRINCE
OTTO - Jenkin I suppose sometime - George  Meredith, the only man of genius of my acquaintance,
and then I  believe I'll have to take to the dead, the immortal memory  business.

Talking of Meredith, I have just re-read for the third and fourth  time THE EGOIST.  When I
shall have read it the sixth or seventh, I  begin to see I shall know about it.  You will be
astonished when  you come to re-read it; I had no idea of the matter - human, red  matter he
has contrived to plug and pack into that strange and  admirable book.  Willoughby is, of course,
a pure discovery; a  complete set of nerves, not heretofore examined, and yet running  all
over the human body - a suit of nerves.  Clara is the best girl  ever I saw anywhere.  Vernon
is almost as good.  The manner and the  faults of the book greatly justify themselves on further
study.   Only Dr. Middleton does not hang together; and Ladies Busshe and  Culmer SONT DES
MONSTRUOSITES.  Vernon's conduct makes a wonderful  odd contrast with Daniel Deronda's.  I
see more and more that  Meredith is built for immortality.

Talking of which, Heywood, as a small immortal, an immortalet,  claims some attention.  THE
WOMAN KILLED WITH KINDNESS is one of  the most striking novels - not plays, though it's more
of a play  than anything else of his - I ever read.  He had such a sweet,  sound soul, the
old boy.  The death of the two pirates in FORTUNE  BY SEA AND LAND is a document.  He had obviously
been present, and  heard Purser and Clinton take death by the beard with similar  braggadocios.
Purser and Clinton, names of pirates; Scarlet and  Bobbington, names of highwaymen.  He had
the touch of names, I  think.  No man I ever knew had such a sense, such a tact, for  English
nomenclature:  Rainsforth, Lacy, Audley, Forrest, Acton,  Spencer, Frankford - so his names run.

Byron not only wrote DON JUAN; he called Joan of Arc 'a fanatical  strumpet.'  These are his
words.  I think the double shame, first  to a great poet, second to an English noble, passes words.

Here is a strange gossip. - I am yours loquaciously,

R. L. S.

My lungs are said to be in a splendid state.  A cruel examination,  an exaNIMation I may call
it, had this brave result.  TAIAUT!   Hillo!  Hey!  Stand by!  Avast!  Hurrah!

Letter:  TO MRS. T.  STEVENSON

[CHALET AM STEIN, DAVOS, APRIL 9, 1882.]

MY DEAR MOTHER, - Herewith please find belated birthday present.   Fanny has another.

Cockshot=Jenkin.      But Jack=Bob.             pray Burly=Henley.         regard Athelred=Simpson.
these Opalstein=Symonds.    as Purcel=Gosse.         secrets.

My dear mother, how can I keep up with your breathless changes?    Innerleithen, Cramond, Bridge
of Allan, Dunblane, Selkirk.  I lean  to Cramond, but I shall be pleased anywhere, any respite
from  Davos; never mind, it has been a good, though a dear lesson.  Now,  with my improved
health, if I can pass the summer, I believe I  shall be able no more to exceed, no more to
draw on you.  It is  time I sufficed for myself indeed.  And I believe I can.

I am still far from satisfied about Fanny; she is certainly better,  but it is by fits a good
deal, and the symptoms continue, which  should not be.  I had her persuaded to leave without
me this very  day (Saturday 8th), but the disclosure of my mismanagement broke up  that plan;
she would not leave me lest I should mismanage more.  I  think this an unfair revenge; but
I have been so bothered that I  cannot struggle.  All Davos has been drinking our wine.  During
the  month of March, three litres a day were drunk - O it is too  sickening - and that is only
a specimen.  It is enough to make any  one a misanthrope, but the right thing is to hate the
donkey that  was duped - which I devoutly do.

I have this winter finished TREASURE ISLAND, written the preface to  the STUDIES, a small book
about the INLAND VOYAGE size, THE  SILVERADO SQUATTERS, and over and above that upwards of
ninety (90)  CORNHILL pages of magazine work.  No man can say I have been idle.  - Your affectionate
son,

R. L. STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO EDMUND GOSSE

[EDINBURGH] SUNDAY [JUNE 1882].

. . . NOTE turned up, but no gray opuscule, which, however, will  probably turn up to-morrow
in time to go out with me to Stobo  Manse, Peeblesshire, where, if you can make it out, you
will be a  good soul to pay a visit.  I shall write again about the opuscule;  and about Stobo,
which I have not seen since I was thirteen, though  my memory speaks delightfully of it.

I have been very tired and seedy, or I should have written before,  INTER ALIA, to tell you
that I had visited my murder place and  found LIVING TRADITIONS not yet in any printed book;
most  startling.  I also got photographs taken, but the negatives have  not yet turned up.
I lie on the sofa to write this, whence the  pencil; having slept yesterdays - 1+4+7.5 = 12.5
hours and being (9  A.M.) very anxious to sleep again.  The arms of Porpus, quoi!  A  poppy
gules, etc.

From Stobo you can conquer Peebles and Selkirk, or to give them  their old decent names, Tweeddale
and Ettrick.  Think of having  been called Tweeddale, and being called PEEBLES!  Did I ever
tell  you my skit on my own travel books?  We understand that Mr.  Stevenson has in the press
another volume of unconventional  travels:  PERSONAL ADVENTURES IN PEEBLESSHIRE.  JE LA TROUVE
MECHANTE. - Yours affectionately,

R. L. S.

- Did I say I had seen a verse on two of the Buccaneers?  I did,  and CA-Y-EST.

Letter:  TO EDMUND GOSSE

STOBO MANSE, PEEBLESSHIRE [JULY 1882].

I would shoot you, but I have no bow: The place is not called Stobs, but Stobo. As Gallic Kids
complain of 'Bobo,' I mourn for your mistake of Stobo.

First, we shall be gone in September.  But if you think of coming  in August, my mother will
hunt for you with pleasure.  We should  all be overjoyed - though Stobo it could not be, as
it is but a  kirk and manse, but possibly somewhere within reach.  Let us know.

Second, I have read your Gray with care.  A more difficult subject  I can scarce fancy; it
is crushing; yet I think you have managed to  shadow forth a man, and a good man too; and honestly,
I doubt if I  could have done the same.  This may seem egoistic; but you are not  such a fool
as to think so.  It is the natural expression of real  praise.  The book as a whole is readable;
your subject peeps every  here and there out of the crannies like a shy violet - he could do
no more - and his aroma hangs there.

I write to catch a minion of the post.  Hence brevity.  Answer  about the house. - Yours affectionately,

R. L S.

Letter:  TO W. E. HENLEY

[STOBO MANSE, JULY 1882.]

DEAR HENLEY, . . . I am not worth an old damn.  I am also crushed  by bad news of Symonds;
his good lung going; I cannot help reading  it as a personal hint; God help us all!  Really
I am not very fit  for work; but I try, try, and nothing comes of it.

I believe we shall have to leave this place; it is low, damp, and  MAUCHY; the rain it raineth
every day; and the glass goes tol-de- rol-de riddle.

Yet it's a bonny bit; I wish I could live in it, but doubt.  I wish  I was well away somewhere
else.  I feel like flight some days;  honour bright.

Pirbright Smith is well.  Old Mr. Pegfurth Bannatyne is here  staying at a country inn.  His
whole baggage is a pair of socks and  a book in a fishing-basket; and he borrows even a rod
from the  landlord.  He walked here over the hills from Sanquhar, 'singin',  he says, 'like
a mavis.'  I naturally asked him about Hazlitt.  'He  wouldnae take his drink,' he said, 'a
queer, queer fellow.'  But  did not seem further communicative.  He says he has become  'releegious,'
but still swears like a trooper.  I asked him if he  had no headquarters.  'No likely,' said
he.  He says he is writing  his memoirs, which will be interesting.  He once met Borrow; they
boxed; 'and Geordie,' says the old man chuckling, 'gave me the  damnedest hiding.'  Of Wordsworth
he remarked, 'He wasnae sound in  the faith, sir, and a milk-blooded, blue-spectacled bitch
forbye.   But his po'mes are grand - there's no denying that.'  I asked him  what his book
was.  'I havenae mind,' said he - that was his only  book!  On turning it out, I found it was
one of my own, and on  showing it to him, he remembered it at once.  'O aye,' he said, 'I 
mind now.  It's pretty bad; ye'll have to do better than that,  chieldy,' and chuckled, chuckled.
He is a strange old figure, to  be sure.  He cannot endure Pirbright Smith - 'a mere aesthAtic,'
he  said.  'Pooh!'  'Fishin' and releegion - these are my aysthatics,'  he wound up.

I thought this would interest you, so scribbled it down.  I still  hope to get more out of
him about Hazlitt, though he utterly pooh- poohed the idea of writing H.'s life.  'Ma life
now,' he said,  'there's been queer things in IT.'  He is seventy-nine! but may  well last
to a hundred! - Yours ever,

R. L S.

CHAPTER VI - MARSEILLES AND HYERES, OCTOBER 1882-AUGUST 1884

Letter:  TO THE EDITOR OF THE 'NEW YORK TRIBUNE'

TERMINUS HOTEL, MARSEILLES, OCTOBER 16, 1882.

SIR, - It has come to my ears that you have lent the authority of  your columns to an error.

More than half in pleasantry - and I now think the pleasantry ill- judged - I complained in
a note to my NEW ARABIAN NIGHTS that some  one, who shall remain nameless for me, had borrowed
the idea of a  story from one of mine.  As if I had not borrowed the ideas of the  half of
my own!  As if any one who had written a story ill had a  right to complain of any other who
should have written it better!   I am indeed thoroughly ashamed of the note, and of the principle
which it implies.

But it is no mere abstract penitence which leads me to beg a corner  of your paper - it is
the desire to defend the honour of a man of  letters equally known in America and England,
of a man who could  afford to lend to me and yet be none the poorer; and who, if he  would
so far condescend, has my free permission to borrow from me  all that he can find worth borrowing.

Indeed, sir, I am doubly surprised at your correspondent's error.   That James Payn should
have borrowed from me is already a strange  conception.  The author of LOST SIR MASSINGBERD
and BY PROXY may be  trusted to invent his own stories.  The author of A GRAPE FROM A  THORN
knows enough, in his own right, of the humorous and pathetic  sides of human nature.

But what is far more monstrous - what argues total ignorance of the  man in question - is the
idea that James Payn could ever have  transgressed the limits of professional propriety.  I
may tell his  thousands of readers on your side of the Atlantic that there  breathes no man
of letters more inspired by kindness and generosity  to his brethren of the profession, and,
to put an end to any  possibility of error, I may be allowed to add that I often have  recourse,
and that I had recourse once more but a few weeks ago, to  the valuable practical help which
he makes it his pleasure to  extend to younger men.

I send a duplicate of this letter to a London weekly; for the  mistake, first set forth in
your columns, has already reached  England, and my wanderings have made me perhaps last of
the persons  interested to hear a word of it. - I am, etc.,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO R. A. M. STEVENSON

TERMINUS HOTEL, MARSEILLE, SATURDAY (OCTOBER 1882).

MY DEAR BOB, - We have found a house! - at Saint Marcel, Banlieue  de Marseille.  In a lovely
valley between hills part wooded, part  white cliffs; a house of a dining-room, of a fine salon
- one side  lined with a long divan - three good bedrooms (two of them with  dressing-rooms),
three small rooms (chambers of BONNE and sich), a  large kitchen, a lumber room, many cupboards,
a back court, a  large, large olive yard, cultivated by a resident PAYSAN, a well, a  berceau,
a good deal of rockery, a little pine shrubbery, a railway  station in front, two lines of
omnibus to Marseille.

48 pounds per annum.

It is called Campagne Defli! query Campagne Debug?  The Campagne  Demosquito goes on here nightly,
and is very deadly.  Ere we can  get installed, we shall be beggared to the door, I see.

I vote for separations; F.'s arrival here, after our separation,  was better fun to me than
being married was by far.  A separation  completed is a most valuable property; worth piles.
- Ever your  affectionate cousin,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO THOMAS STEVENSON

TERMINUS HOTEL, MARSEILLE, LE 17TH OCTOBER 1882.

MY DEAR FATHER, - . .  We grow, every time we see it, more  delighted with our house.  It is
five miles out of Marseilles, in a  lovely spot, among lovely wooded and cliffy hills - most
mountainous in line - far lovelier, to my eyes, than any Alps.  To- day we have been out inventorying;
and though a mistral blew, it  was delightful in an open cab, and our house with the windows
open  was heavenly, soft, dry, sunny, southern.  I fear there are fleas -  it is called Campagne
Defli - and I look forward to tons of  insecticide being employed.

I have had to write a letter to the NEW YORK TRIBUNE and the  ATHENAEUM.  Payn was accused
of stealing my stories!  I think I  have put things handsomely for him.

Just got a servant! ! ! - Ever affectionate son,

R. L. STEVENSON.

Our servant is a Muckle Hash of a Weedy!

Letter:  TO MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

CAMPAGNE DEFLI, ST. MARCEL, BANLIEUE DE MARSEILLE, NOVEMBER 13,  1882.

MY DEAR MOTHER, - Your delightful letters duly arrived this  morning.  They were the only good
feature of the day, which was not  a success.  Fanny was in bed - she begged I would not split
upon  her, she felt so guilty; but as I believe she is better this  evening, and has a good
chance to be right again in a day or two, I  will disregard her orders.  I do not go back,
but do not go forward  - or not much.  It is, in one way, miserable - for I can do no  work;
a very little wood-cutting, the newspapers, and a note about  every two days to write, completely
exhausts my surplus energy;  even Patience I have to cultivate with parsimony.  I see, if I
could only get to work, that we could live here with comfort,  almost with luxury.  Even as
it is, we should be able to get  through a considerable time of idleness.  I like the place
immensely, though I have seen so little of it - I have only been  once outside the gate since
I was here!  It puts me in mind of a  summer at Prestonpans and a sickly child you once told me of.

Thirty-two years now finished!  My twenty-ninth was in San  Francisco, I remember - rather
a bleak birthday.  The twenty-eighth  was not much better; but the rest have been usually pleasant
days  in pleasant circumstances.

Love to you and to my father and to Cummy.

From me and Fanny and Wogg.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO CHARLES BAXTER

GRAND HOTEL, NICE, 12TH JANUARY '83.

DEAR CHARLES, - Thanks for your good letter.  It is true, man,  God's truth, what ye say about
the body Stevison.  The deil himsel,  it's my belief, couldnae get the soul harled oot o' the
creature's  wame, or he had seen the hinder end o' they proofs.  Ye crack o'  Maecenas, he's
naebody by you!  He gied the lad Horace a rax forrit  by all accounts; but he never gied him
proofs like yon.  Horace may  hae been a better hand at the clink than Stevison - mind, I'm
no  sayin' 't - but onyway he was never sae weel prentit.  Damned, but  it's bonny!  Hoo mony
pages will there be, think ye?  Stevison maun  hae sent ye the feck o' twenty sangs - fifteen
I'se warrant.  Weel,  that'll can make thretty pages, gin ye were to prent on ae side  only,
whilk wad be perhaps what a man o' your GREAT idees would be  ettlin' at, man Johnson.  Then
there wad be the Pre-face, an' prose  ye ken prents oot langer than po'try at the hinder end,
for ye hae  to say things in't.  An' then there'll be a title-page and a  dedication and an
index wi' the first lines like, and the deil an'  a'.  Man, it'll be grand.  Nae copies to
be given to the Liberys.

I am alane myself, in Nice, they ca't, but damned, I think they  micht as well ca't Nesty.
The Pile-on, 's they ca't, 's aboot as  big as the river Tay at Perth; and it's rainin' maist
like  Greenock.  Dod, I've seen 's had mair o' what they ca' the I-talian  at Muttonhole. 
I-talian!  I haenae seen the sun for eicht and  forty hours.  Thomson's better, I believe.
But the body's fair  attenyated.  He's doon to seeven stane eleeven, an' he sooks awa'  at
cod liver ile, till it's a fair disgrace.  Ye see he tak's it on  a drap brandy; and it's my
belief, it's just an excuse for a dram.   He an' Stevison gang aboot their lane, maistly; they're
company to  either, like, an' whiles they'll speak o'Johnson.  But HE'S far  awa', losh me!
Stevison's last book's in a third edeetion; an'  it's bein' translated (like the psaulms o'
David, nae less) into  French; and an eediot they ca' Asher - a kind o' rival of Tauchnitz
- is bringin' him oot in a paper book for the Frenchies and the  German folk in twa volumes.
Sae he's in luck, ye see. - Yours,

THOMSON.

Letter:  TO ALISON CUNNINGHAM

[NICE FEBRUARY 1883.]

MY DEAR CUMMY, - You must think, and quite justly, that I am one of  the meanest rogues in
creation.  But though I do not write (which  is a thing I hate), it by no means follows that
people are out of  my mind.  It is natural that I should always think more or less  about you,
and still more natural that I should think of you when I  went back to Nice.  But the real
reason why you have been more in  my mind than usual is because of some little verses that
I have  been writing, and that I mean to make a book of; and the real  reason of this letter
(although I ought to have written to you  anyway) is that I have just seen that the book in
question must be  dedicated to

ALISON CUNNINGHAM,

the only person who will really understand it.  I don't know when  it may be ready, for it
has to be illustrated, but I hope in the  meantime you may like the idea of what is to be;
and when the time  comes, I shall try to make the dedication as pretty as I can make  it. 
Of course, this is only a flourish, like taking off one's hat;  but still, a person who has
taken the trouble to write things does  not dedicate them to any one without meaning it; and
you must just  try to take this dedication in place of a great many things that I  might have
said, and that I ought to have done, to prove that I am  not altogether unconscious of the
great debt of gratitude I owe  you.  This little book, which is all about my childhood, should
indeed go to no other person but you, who did so much to make that  childhood happy.

Do you know, we came very near sending for you this winter.  If we  had not had news that you
were ill too, I almost believe we should  have done so, we were so much in trouble.

I am now very well; but my wife has had a very, very bad spell,  through overwork and anxiety,
when I was LOST!  I suppose you heard  of that.  She sends you her love, and hopes you will
write to her,  though she no more than I deserves it.  She would add a word  herself, but she
is too played out. - I am, ever your old boy,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO W. E. HENLEY

[NICE, MARCH 1883.]

MY DEAR LAD, - This is to announce to you the MS. of Nursery  Verses, now numbering XLVIII.
pieces or 599 verses, which, of  course, one might augment AD INFINITUM.

But here is my notion to make all clear.

I do not want a big ugly quarto; my soul sickens at the look of a  quarto.  I want a refined
octavo, not large - not LARGER than the  DONKEY BOOK, at any price.

I think the full page might hold four verses of four lines, that is  to say, counting their
blanks at two, of twenty-two lines in  height.  The first page of each number would only hold
two verses  or ten lines, the title being low down.  At this rate, we should  have seventy-eight
or eighty pages of letterpress.

The designs should not be in the text, but facing the poem; so that  if the artist liked, he
might give two pages of design to every  poem that turned the leaf, I.E. longer than eight
lines, I.E. to  twenty-eight out of the forty-six.  I should say he would not use  this privilege
(?) above five times, and some he might scorn to  illustrate at all, so we may say fifty drawings.
I shall come to  the drawings next.

But now you see my book of the thickness, since the drawings count  two pages, of 180 pages;
and since the paper will perhaps be  thicker, of near two hundred by bulk.  It is bound in
a quiet green  with the words in thin gilt.  Its shape is a slender, tall octavo.   And it
sells for the publisher's fancy, and it will be a darling to  look at; in short, it would be
like one of the original Heine books  in type and spacing.

Now for the pictures.  I take another sheet and begin to jot notes  for them when my imagination
serves:  I will run through the book,  writing when I have an idea.  There, I have jotted enough
to give  the artist a notion.  Of course, I don't do more than contribute  ideas, but I will
be happy to help in any and every way.  I may as  well add another idea; when the artist finds
nothing much to  illustrate, a good drawing of any OBJECT mentioned in the text,  were it only
a loaf of bread or a candlestick, is a most delightful  thing to a young child.  I remember
this keenly.

Of course, if the artist insists on a larger form, I must I  suppose, bow my head.  But my
idea I am convinced is the best, and  would make the book truly, not fashionably pretty.

I forgot to mention that I shall have a dedication; I am going to  dedicate 'em to Cummy; it
will please her, and lighten a little my  burthen of ingratitude.  A low affair is the Muse
business.

I will add no more to this lest you should want to communicate with  the artist; try another
sheet.  I wonder how many I'll keep  wandering to.

O I forgot.  As for the title, I think 'Nursery Verses' the best.   Poetry is not the strong
point of the text, and I shrink from any  title that might seem to claim that quality; otherwise
we might  have 'Nursery Muses' or 'New Songs of Innocence' (but that were a  blasphemy), or
'Rimes of Innocence':  the last not bad, or - an  idea - 'The Jews' Harp,' or - now I have
it - 'The Penny Whistle.'

THE PENNY WHISTLE: NURSERY VERSES BY ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON. ILLUSTRATED BY - - -

And here we have an excellent frontispiece, of a party playing on a  P. W. to a little ring
of dancing children.

THE PENNY WHISTLE is the name for me.

Fool! this is all wrong, here is the true name:-

PENNY WHISTLES FOR SMALL WHISTLERS.

The second title is queried, it is perhaps better, as simply PENNY  WHISTLES.

Nor you, O Penny Whistler, grudge That I your instrument debase: By worse performers still
we judge, And give that fife a second place!

Crossed penny whistles on the cover, or else a sheaf of 'em.

SUGGESTIONS.

IV. The procession - the child running behind it.  The procession  tailing off through the
gates of a cloudy city.

IX. FOREIGN LANDS. - This will, I think, want two plates - the  child climbing, his first glimpse
over the garden wall, with what  he sees - the tree shooting higher and higher like the beanstalk,
and the view widening.  The river slipping in.  The road arriving  in Fairyland.

X. WINDY NIGHTS. - The child in bed listening - the horseman  galloping.

XII. The child helplessly watching his ship - then he gets smaller,  and the doll joyfully
comes alive - the pair landing on the island  - the ship's deck with the doll steering and
the child firing the  penny canon.  Query two plates?  The doll should never come  properly alive.

XV. Building of the ship - storing her - Navigation - Tom's  accident, the other child paying
no attention.

XXXI. THE WIND. - I sent you my notion of already.

XXXVII. FOREIGN CHILDREN. - The foreign types dancing in a jing-a- ring, with the English child
pushing in the middle.  The foreign  children looking at and showing each other marvels.  The
English  child at the leeside of a roast of beef.  The English child sitting  thinking with
his picture-books all round him, and the jing-a-ring  of the foreign children in miniature
dancing over the picture- books.

XXXIX.  Dear artist, can you do me that?

XLII. The child being started off - the bed sailing, curtains and  all, upon the sea - the
child waking and finding himself at home;  the corner of toilette might be worked in to look
like the pier.

XLVII. The lighted part of the room, to be carefully distinguished  from my child's dark hunting
grounds.  A shaded lamp.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

HOTEL DES ILES D'OR, HYERES, VAR, MARCH 2, [1883].

MY DEAR MOTHER, - It must be at least a fortnight since we have had  a scratch of a pen from
you; and if it had not been for Cummy's  letter, I should have feared you were worse again:
as it is, I  hope we shall hear from you to-day or to-morrow at latest.

HEALTH.

Our news is good:  Fanny never got so bad as we feared, and we hope  now that this attack may
pass off in threatenings.  I am greatly  better, have gained flesh, strength, spirits; eat
well, walk a good  deal, and do some work without fatigue.  I am off the sick list.

LODGING.

We have found a house up the hill, close to the town, an excellent  place though very, very
little.  If I can get the landlord to agree  to let us take it by the month just now, and let
our month's rent  count for the year in case we take it on, you may expect to hear we  are
again installed, and to receive a letter dated thus:-

La Solitude, Hyeres-les-Palmiers, Var.

If the man won't agree to that, of course I must just give it up,  as the house would be dear
enough anyway at 2000 f.  However, I  hope we may get it, as it is healthy, cheerful, and close
to shops,  and society, and civilisation.  The garden, which is above, is  lovely, and will
be cool in summer.  There are two rooms below with  a kitchen, and four rooms above, all told.
- Ever your affectionate  son,

R. L. STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO THOMAS STEVENSON

HOTEL DES ILES D'OR, BUT MY ADDRESS WILL BE CHALET LA SOLITUDE,  HYERES-LE-PALMIERS, VAR, FRANCE,
MARCH 17, 1883.

DEAR SIR, - Your undated favour from Eastbourne came to hand in  course of post, and I now
hasten to acknowledge its receipt.  We  must ask you in future, for the convenience of our
business  arrangements, to struggle with and tread below your feet this most  unsatisfactory
and uncommercial habit.  Our Mr. Cassandra is  better; our Mr. Wogg expresses himself dissatisfied
with our new  place of business; when left alone in the front shop, he bawled  like a parrot;
it is supposed the offices are haunted.

To turn to the matter of your letter, your remarks on GREAT  EXPECTATIONS are very good.  We
have both re-read it this winter,  and I, in a manner, twice.  The object being a play; the
play, in  its rough outline, I now see:  and it is extraordinary how much of  Dickens had to
be discarded as unhuman, impossible, and  ineffective:  all that really remains is the loan
of a file (but  from a grown-up young man who knows what he was doing, and to a  convict who,
although he does not know it is his father - the  father knows it is his son), and the fact
of the convict-father's  return and disclosure of himself to the son whom he has made rich.
Everything else has been thrown aside; and the position has had to  be explained by a prologue
which is pretty strong.  I have great  hopes of this piece, which is very amiable and, in places,
very  strong indeed:  but it was curious how Dickens had to be rolled  away; he had made his
story turn on such improbabilities, such  fantastic trifles, not on a good human basis, such
as I recognised.   You are right about the casts, they were a capital idea; a good  description
of them at first, and then afterwards, say second, for  the lawyer to have illustrated points
out of the history of the  originals, dusting the particular bust - that was all the  development
the thing would bear.  Dickens killed them.  The only  really well EXECUTED scenes are the
riverside ones; the escape in  particular is excellent; and I may add, the capture of the two
convicts at the beginning.  Miss Havisham is, probably, the worst  thing in human fiction.
But Wemmick I like; and I like Trabb's  boy; and Mr. Wopsle as Hamlet is splendid.

The weather here is greatly improved, and I hope in three days to  be in the chalet.  That
is, if I get some money to float me there.

I hope you are all right again, and will keep better.  The month of  March is past its mid
career; it must soon begin to turn toward the  lamb; here it has already begun to do so; and
I hope milder weather  will pick you up.  Wogg has eaten a forpet of rice and milk, his  beard
is streaming, his eyes wild.  I am besieged by demands of  work from America.

The 50 pounds has just arrived; many thanks; I am now at ease. -  Ever your affectionate son,
PRO Cassandra, Wogg and Co.,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MRS. SITWELL

CHALET LA SOLITUDE, HYERES, [APRIL 1883].

MY DEAR FRIEND, - I am one of the lowest of the - but that's  understood.  I received the copy,
excellently written, with I think  only one slip from first to last.  I have struck out two,
and added  five or six; so they now number forty-five; when they are fifty,  they shall out
on the world.  I have not written a letter for a  cruel time; I have been, and am, so busy,
drafting a long story  (for me, I mean), about a hundred CORNHILL pages, or say about as  long
as the Donkey book:  PRINCE OTTO it is called, and is, at the  present hour, a sore burthen
but a hopeful.  If I had him all  drafted, I should whistle and sing.  But no:  then I'll have
to  rewrite him; and then there will be the publishers, alas!  But some  time or other, I shall
whistle and sing, I make no doubt.

I am going to make a fortune, it has not yet begun, for I am not  yet clear of debt; but as
soon as I can, I begin upon the fortune.   I shall begin it with a halfpenny, and it shall
end with horses and  yachts and all the fun of the fair.  This is the first real grey  hair
in my character:  rapacity has begun to show, the greed of the  protuberant guttler.  Well,
doubtless, when the hour strikes, we  must all guttle and protube.  But it comes hard on one
who was  always so willow-slender and as careless as the daisies.

Truly I am in excellent spirits.  I have crushed through a  financial crisis; Fanny is much
better; I am in excellent health,  and work from four to five hours a day - from one to two
above my  average, that is; and we all dwell together and make fortunes in  the loveliest house
you ever saw, with a garden like a fairy story,  and a view like a classical landscape.

Little?  Well, it is not large.  And when you come to see us, you  will probably have to bed
at the hotel, which is hard by.  But it  is Eden, madam, Eden and Beulah and the Delectable
Mountains and  Eldorado and the Hesperidean Isles and Bimini.

We both look forward, my dear friend, with the greatest eagerness  to have you here.  It seems
it is not to be this season; but I  appoint you with an appointment for next season.  You cannot
see us  else:  remember that.  Till my health has grown solid like an oak- tree, till my fortune
begins really to spread its boughs like the  same monarch of the woods (and the acorn, ay de
mi! is not yet  planted), I expect to be a prisoner among the palms.

Yes, it is like old times to be writing you from the Riviera, and  after all that has come
and gone who can predict anything?  How  fortune tumbles men about!  Yet I have not found that
they change  their friends, thank God.

Both of our loves to your sister and yourself.  As for me, if I am  here and happy, I know
to whom I owe it; I know who made my way for  me in life, if that were all, and I remain, with
love, your  faithful friend,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO EDMUND GOSSE

CHALET LA SOLITUDE, HYERES, [APRIL 1883].

MY DEAR GOSSE, - I am very guilty; I should have written to you  long ago; and now, though
it must be done, I am so stupid that I  can only boldly recapitulate.  A phrase of three members
is the  outside of my syntax.

First, I liked the ROVER better than any of your other verse.  I  believe you are right, and
can make stories in verse.  The last two  stanzas and one or two in the beginning - but the
two last above  all - I thought excellent.  I suggest a pursuit of the vein.  If  you want
a good story to treat, get the MEMOIRS OF THE CHEVALIER  JOHNSTONE, and do his passage of the
Tay; it would be excellent:   the dinner in the field, the woman he has to follow, the dragoons,
the timid boatmen, the brave lasses.  It would go like a charm;  look at it, and you will say
you owe me one.

Second, Gilder asking me for fiction, I suddenly took a great  resolve, and have packed off
to him my new work, THE SILVERADO  SQUATTERS.  I do not for a moment suppose he will take it;
but pray  say all the good words you can for it.  I should be awfully glad to  get it taken.
But if it does not mean dibbs at once, I shall be  ruined for life.  Pray write soon and beg
Gilder your prettiest for  a poor gentleman in pecuniary sloughs.

Fourth, next time I am supposed to be at death's door, write to me  like a Christian, and let
not your correspondence attend on  business. - Yours ever,

R. L. S.

P.S. - I see I have led you to conceive the SQUATTERS are fiction.   They are not, alas!

Letter:  TO MR. AND MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

CHALET SOLITUDE, MAY 5, [1883].

MY DEAREST PEOPLE, - I have had a great piece of news.  There has  been offered for TREASURE
ISLAND - how much do you suppose?  I  believe it would be an excellent jest to keep the answer
till my  next letter.  For two cents I would do so.  Shall I?  Anyway, I'll  turn the page
first.  No - well - A hundred pounds, all alive, O!   A hundred jingling, tingling, golden,
minted quid.  Is not this  wonderful?  Add that I have now finished, in draft, the fifteenth
chapter of my novel, and have only five before me, and you will see  what cause of gratitude
I have.

The weather, to look at the per contra sheet, continues vomitable;  and Fanny is quite out
of sorts.  But, really, with such cause of  gladness, I have not the heart to be dispirited
by anything.  My  child's verse book is finished, dedication and all, and out of my  hands
- you may tell Cummy; SILVERADO is done, too, and cast upon  the waters; and this novel so
near completion, it does look as if I  should support myself without trouble in the future.
If I have  only health, I can, I thank God.  It is dreadful to be a great, big  man, and not
be able to buy bread.

O that this may last!

I have to-day paid my rent for the half year, till the middle of  September, and got my lease:
why they have been so long, I know  not.

I wish you all sorts of good things.

When is our marriage day? - Your loving and ecstatic son,

TREESURE EILAAN,

It has been for me a Treasure Island verily.

Letter:  TO MR. AND MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

LA SOLITUDE, HYERES, MAY 8, 1883.

MY DEAR PEOPLE, - I was disgusted to hear my father was not so  well.  I have a most troubled
existence of work and business.  But  the work goes well, which is the great affair.  I meant
to have  written a most delightful letter; too tired, however, and must  stop.  Perhaps I'll
find time to add to it ere post.

I have returned refreshed from eating, but have little time, as  Lloyd will go soon with the
letters on his way to his tutor, Louis  Robert (!!!!), with whom he learns Latin in French,
and French, I  suppose, in Latin, which seems to me a capital education.  He,  Lloyd, is a
great bicycler already, and has been long distances; he  is most new-fangled over his instrument,
and does not willingly  converse on other subjects.

Our lovely garden is a prey to snails; I have gathered about a  bushel, which, not having the
heart to slay, I steal forth withal  and deposit near my neighbour's garden wall.  As a case
of  casuistry, this presents many points of interest.  I loathe the  snails, but from loathing
to actual butchery, trucidation of  multitudes, there is still a step that I hesitate to take.
What,  then, to do with them?  My neighbour's vineyard, pardy!  It is a  rich, villa, pleasure-garden
of course; if it were a peasant's  patch, the snails, I suppose, would have to perish.

The weather these last three days has been much better, though it  is still windy and unkind.
I keep splendidly well, and am cruelly  busy, with mighty little time even for a walk.  And
to write at  all, under such pressure, must be held to lean to virtue's side.

My financial prospects are shining.  O if the health will hold, I  should easily support myself.
- Your ever affectionate son,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO EDMUND GOSSE

LA SOLITUDE, HYERES-LES-PALMIERS, VAR, [MAY 20, 1883].

MY DEAR GOSSE, - I enclose the receipt and the corrections.  As for  your letter and Gilder's,
I must take an hour or so to think; the  matter much importing - to me.  The 40 pounds was
a heavenly thing.

I send the MS. by Henley, because he acts for me in all matters,  and had the thing, like all
my other books, in his detention.  He  is my unpaid agent - an admirable arrangement for me,
and one that  has rather more than doubled my income on the spot.

If I have been long silent, think how long you were so and blush,  sir, blush.

I was rendered unwell by the arrival of your cheque, and, like  Pepys, 'my hand still shakes
to write of it.'  To this grateful  emotion, and not to D.T., please attribute the raggedness
of my  hand.

This year I should be able to live and keep my family on my own  earnings, and that in spite
of eight months and more of perfect  idleness at the end of last and beginning of this.  It
is a sweet  thought.

This spot, our garden and our view, are sub-celestial.  I sing  daily with my Bunyan, that
great bard,

'I dwell already the next door to Heaven!'

If you could see my roses, and my aloes, and my fig-marigolds, and  my olives, and my view
over a plain, and my view of certain  mountains as graceful as Apollo, as severe as Zeus, you
would not  think the phrase exaggerated.

It is blowing to-day a HOT mistral, which is the devil or a near  connection of his.

This to catch the post. - Yours affectionately,

R. L. STEVENSON.

MY DEAR GOSSE, - The night giveth advice, generally bad advice; but  I have taken it.  And
I have written direct to Gilder to tell him  to keep the book back and go on with it in November
at his leisure.   I do not know if this will come in time; if it doesn't, of course  things
will go on in the way proposed.  The 40 pounds, or, as I  prefer to put it, the 1000 francs,
has been such a piercing sun-ray  as my whole grey life is gilt withal.  On the back of it
I can  endure.  If these good days of LONGMAN and the CENTURY only last,  it will be a very
green world, this that we dwell in and that  philosophers miscall.  I have no taste for that
philosophy; give me  large sums paid on the receipt of the MS. and copyright reserved,  and
what do I care about the non-beent?  Only I know it can't last.   The devil always has an imp
or two in every house, and my imps are  getting lively.  The good lady, the dear, kind lady,
the sweet,  excellent lady, Nemesis, whom alone I adore, has fixed her wooden  eye upon me.
I fall prone; spare me, Mother Nemesis!  But catch  her!

I must now go to bed; for I have had a whoreson influenza cold, and  have to lie down all day,
and get up only to meals and the  delights, June delights, of business correspondence.

You said nothing about my subject for a poem.  Don't you like it?   My own fishy eye has been
fixed on it for prose, but I believe it  could be thrown out finely in verse, and hence I resign
and pass  the hand.  Twig the compliment? - Yours affectionately

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO W. E. HENLEY

[HYERES, MAY 1883.]

. . . THE influenza has busted me a good deal; I have no spring,  and am headachy.  So, as
my good Red Lion Counter begged me for  another Butcher's Boy - I turned me to - what thinkest
'ou? - to  Tushery, by the mass!  Ay, friend, a whole tale of tushery.  And  every tusher tushes
me so free, that may I be tushed if the whole  thing is worth a tush.  THE BLACK ARROW:  A
TALE OF TUNSTALL FOREST  is his name:  tush! a poor thing!

Will TREASURE ISLAND proofs be coming soon, think you?

I will now make a confession.  It was the sight of your maimed  strength and masterfulness
that begot John Silver in TREASURE  ISLAND.  Of course, he is not in any other quality or feature
the  least like you; but the idea of the maimed man, ruling and dreaded  by the sound, was
entirely taken from you.

Otto is, as you say, not a thing to extend my public on.  It is  queer and a little, little
bit free; and some of the parties are  immoral; and the whole thing is not a romance, nor yet
a comedy;  nor yet a romantic comedy; but a kind of preparation of some of the  elements of
all three in a glass jar.  I think it is not without  merit, but I am not always on the level
of my argument, and some  parts are false, and much of the rest is thin; it is more a triumph
for myself than anything else; for I see, beyond it, better stuff.   I have nine chapters ready,
or almost ready, for press.  My feeling  would be to get it placed anywhere for as much as
could be got for  it, and rather in the shadow, till one saw the look of it in print.  - Ever
yours,

PRETTY SICK.

Letter:  TO W. E. HENLEY

LA SOLITUDE, HYERES-LES-PALMIERS, MAY 1883.

MY DEAR LAD, - The books came some time since, but I have not had  the pluck to answer:  a
shower of small troubles having fallen in,  or troubles that may be very large.

I have had to incur a huge vague debt for cleaning sewers; our  house was (of course) riddled
with hidden cesspools, but that was  infallible.  I have the fever, and feel the duty to work
very heavy  on me at times; yet go it must.  I have had to leave FONTAINEBLEAU,  when three
hours would finish it, and go full-tilt at tushery for a  while.  But it will come soon.

I think I can give you a good article on Hokusai; but that is for  afterwards; FONTAINEBLEAU
is first in hand

By the way, my view is to give the PENNY WHISTLES to Crane or  Greenaway.  But Crane, I think,
is likeliest; he is a fellow who,  at least, always does his best.

Shall I ever have money enough to write a play?  O dire necessity!

A word in your ear:  I don't like trying to support myself.  I hate  the strain and the anxiety;
and when unexpected expenses are  foisted on me, I feel the world is playing with false dice.
- Now I  must Tush, adieu,

AN ACHING, FEVERED, PENNY-JOURNALIST.

A lytle Jape of TUSHERIE.

By A. Tusher.

The pleasant river gushes Among the meadows green; At home the author tushes; For him it flows
unseen.

The Birds among the Bushes May wanton on the spray; But vain for him who tushes The brightness
of the day!

The frog among the rushes Sits singing in the blue. By'r la'kin! but these tushes Are wearisome
to do!

The task entirely crushes The spirit of the bard: God pity him who tushes - His task is very hard.

The filthy gutter slushes, The clouds are full of rain, But doomed is he who tushes To tush
and tush again.

At morn with his hair-brUshes, Still, 'tush' he says, and weeps; At night again he tushes,
And tushes till he sleeps.

And when at length he pushes Beyond the river dark - 'Las, to the man who tushes, 'Tush' shall
be God's remark!

Letter:  TO W. E. HENLEY

[CHALET LA SOLITUDE, HYERES, MAY 1883.]

DEAR HENLEY, - You may be surprised to hear that I am now a great  writer of verses; that is,
however, so.  I have the mania now like  my betters, and faith, if I live till I am forty,
I shall have a  book of rhymes like Pollock, Gosse, or whom you please.  Really, I  have begun
to learn some of the rudiments of that trade, and have  written three or four pretty enough
pieces of octosyllabic  nonsense, semi-serious, semi-smiling.  A kind of prose Herrick,  divested
of the gift of verse, and you behold the Bard.  But I like  it.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO W. E. HENLEY

HYERES [JUNE 1883].

DEAR LAD, - I was delighted to hear the good news about -.  Bravo,  he goes uphill fast.  Let
him beware of vanity, and he will go  higher; let him be still discontented, and let him (if
it might be)  see the merits and not the faults of his rivals, and he may swarm  at last to
the top-gallant.  There is no other way.  Admiration is  the only road to excellence; and the
critical spirit kills, but  envy and injustice are putrefaction on its feet.

Thus far the moralist.  The eager author now begs to know whether  you may have got the other
Whistles, and whether a fresh proof is  to be taken; also whether in that case the dedication
should not be  printed therewith; Bulk Delights Publishers (original aphorism; to  be said
sixteen times in succession as a test of sobriety).

Your wild and ravening commands were received; but cannot be  obeyed.  And anyway, I do assure
you I am getting better every day;  and if the weather would but turn, I should soon be observed
to  walk in hornpipes.  Truly I am on the mend.  I am still very  careful.  I have the new
dictionary; a joy, a thing of beauty, and  - bulk.  I shall be raked i' the mools before it's
finished; that  is the only pity; but meanwhile I sing.

I beg to inform you that I, Robert Louis Stevenson, author of  BRASHIANA and other works, am
merely beginning to commence to  prepare to make a first start at trying to understand my 
profession.  O the height and depth of novelty and worth in any  art! and O that I am privileged
to swim and shoulder through such  oceans!  Could one get out of sight of land - all in the
blue?   Alas not, being anchored here in flesh, and the bonds of logic  being still about us.

But what a great space and a great air there is in these small  shallows where alone we venture!
and how new each sight, squall,  calm, or sunrise!  An art is a fine fortune, a palace in a
park, a  band of music, health, and physical beauty; all but love - to any  worthy practiser.
I sleep upon my art for a pillow; I waken in my  art; I am unready for death, because I hate
to leave it.  I love my  wife, I do not know how much, nor can, nor shall, unless I lost  her;
but while I can conceive my being widowed, I refuse the  offering of life without my art. 
I AM not but in my art; it is me;  I am the body of it merely.

And yet I produce nothing, am the author of BRASHIANA and other  works:  tiddy-iddity - as
if the works one wrote were anything but  'prentice's experiments.  Dear reader, I deceive
you with husks,  the real works and all the pleasure are still mine and  incommunicable.  After
this break in my work, beginning to return  to it, as from light sleep, I wax exclamatory,
as you see.

Sursum Corda: Heave ahead: Here's luck. Art and Blue Heaven, April and God's Larks. Green reeds
and the sky-scattering river. A stately music. Enter God!

R. L. S.

Ay, but you know, until a man can write that 'Enter God,' he has  made no art!  None!  Come,
let us take counsel together and make  some!

Letter:  TO W. E. HENLEY

LA SOLITUDE, HYERES [SUMMER 1883].

DEAR LAD, - Glad you like FONTAINEBLEAU.  I am going to be the  means, under heaven, of aerating
or liberating your pages.  The  idea that because a thing is a picture-book all the writing
should  be on the wrong tack is TRISTE but widespread.  Thus Hokusai will  be really a gossip
on convention, or in great part.  And the Skelt  will be as like a Charles Lamb as I can get
it.  The writer should  write, and not illustrate pictures:  else it's bosh. . . .

Your remarks about the ugly are my eye.  Ugliness is only the prose  of horror.  It is when
you are not able to write MACBETH that you  write THERESE RAQUIN.  Fashions are external: 
the essence of art  only varies in so far as fashion widens the field of its  application;
art is a mill whose thirlage, in different ages,  widens and contracts; but, in any case and
under any fashion, the  great man produces beauty, terror, and mirth, and the little man  produces
cleverness (personalities, psychology) instead of beauty,  ugliness instead of terror, and
jokes instead of mirth.  As it was  in the beginning, is now, and shall be ever, world without
end.   Amen!

And even as you read, you say, 'Of course, QUELLE RENGAINE!'

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO ALISON CUNNINGHAM

LA SOLITUDE, HYERES [SUMMER 1883].

MY DEAR CUMMY, - Yes, I own I am a real bad correspondent, and am  as bad as can be in most
directions.

I have been adding some more poems to your book.  I wish they would  look sharp about it; but,
you see, they are trying to find a good  artist to make the illustrations, without which no
child would give  a kick for it.  It will be quite a fine work, I hope.  The  dedication is
a poem too, and has been quite a long while written,  but I do not mean you to see it till
you get the book; keep the  jelly for the last, you know, as you would often recommend in 
former days, so now you can take your own medicine.

I am very sorry to hear you have been so poorly; I have been very  well; it used to be quite
the other way, used it not?  Do you  remember making the whistle at Mount Chessie?  I do not
think it  WAS my knife; I believe it was yours; but rhyme is a very great  monarch, and goes
before honesty, in these affairs at least.  Do  you remember, at Warriston, one autumn Sunday,
when the beech nuts  were on the ground, seeing heaven open?  I would like to make a  rhyme
of that, but cannot.

Is it not strange to think of all the changes:  Bob, Cramond,  Delhi, Minnie, and Henrietta,
all married, and fathers and mothers,  and your humble servant just the one point better off?
And such a  little while ago all children together!  The time goes swift and  wonderfully even;
and if we are no worse than we are, we should be  grateful to the power that guides us.  For
more than a generation I  have now been to the fore in this rough world, and been most  tenderly
helped, and done cruelly wrong, and yet escaped; and here  I am still, the worse for wear,
but with some fight in me still,  and not unthankful - no, surely not unthankful, or I were
then the  worst of human beings!

My little dog is a very much better child in every way, both more  loving and more amiable;
but he is not fond of strangers, and is,  like most of his kind, a great, specious humbug.

Fanny has been ill, but is much better again; she now goes donkey  rides with an old woman,
who compliments her on her French.  That  old woman - seventy odd - is in a parlous spiritual
state.

Pretty soon, in the new sixpenny illustrated magazine, Wogg's  picture is to appear:  this
is a great honour!  And the poor soul  whose vanity would just explode if he could understand
it, will  never be a bit the wiser! - With much love, in which Fanny joins,  believe me, your
affectionate boy,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Seventeen chapters of OTTO are now drafted, and finding I was  working through my voice and
getting screechy, I have turned back  again to rewrite the earlier part.  It has, I do believe,
some  merit:  of what order, of course, I am the last to know; and,  triumph of triumphs, my
wife - my wife who hates and loathes and  slates my women - admits a great part of my Countess
to be on the  spot.

Yes, I could borrow, but it is the joy of being before the public,  for once.  Really, 100
pounds is a sight more than TREASURE ISLAND  is worth.

The reason of my DECHE?  Well, if you begin one house, have to  desert it, begin another, and
are eight months without doing any  work, you will be in a DECHE too.  I am not in a DECHE,
however;  DISTINGUO - I would fain distinguish; I am rather a swell, but NOT  SOLVENT.  At
a touch the edifice, AEDIFICIUM, might collapse.  If  my creditors began to babble around me,
I would sink with a slow  strain of music into the crimson west.  The difficulty in my  elegant
villa is to find oil, OLEUM, for the dam axles.  But I've  paid my rent until September; and
beyond the chemist, the grocer,  the baker, the doctor, the gardener, Lloyd's teacher, and
the great  thief creditor Death, I can snap my fingers at all men.  Why will  people spring
bills on you?  I try to make 'em charge me at the  moment; they won't, the money goes, the
debt remains. - The  Required Play is in the MERRY MEN.

Q. E. F.

I thus render honour to your FLAIR; it came on me of a clap; I do  not see it yet beyond a
kind of sunset glory.  But it's there:   passion, romance, the picturesque, involved:  startling,
simple,  horrid:  a sea-pink in sea-froth!  S'AGIT DE LA DESENTERRER.   'Help!' cries a buried
masterpiece.

Once I see my way to the year's end, clear, I turn to plays; till  then I grind at letters;
finish OTTO; write, say, a couple of my  TRAVELLER'S TALES; and then, if all my ships come
home, I will  attack the drama in earnest.  I cannot mix the skeins.  Thus,  though I'm morally
sure there is a play in OTTO, I dare not look  for it:  I shoot straight at the story.

As a story, a comedy, I think OTTO very well constructed; the  echoes are very good, all the
sentiments change round, and the  points of view are continually, and, I think (if you please),
happily contrasted.  None of it is exactly funny, but some of it is  smiling.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO EDMUND GOSSE

LA SOLITUDE, HYERES [SUMMER 1883].

MY DEAR GOSSE, - I have now leisurely read your volume; pretty  soon, by the way, you will
receive one of mine.

It is a pleasant, instructive, and scholarly volume.  The three  best being, quite out of sight
- Crashaw, Otway, and Etherege.   They are excellent; I hesitate between them; but perhaps
Crashaw is  the most brilliant

Your Webster is not my Webster; nor your Herrick my Herrick.  On  these matters we must fire
a gun to leeward, show our colours, and  go by.  Argument is impossible.  They are two of my
favourite  authors:  Herrick above all:  I suppose they are two of yours.   Well, Janus-like,
they do behold us two with diverse countenances,  few features are common to these different
avatars; and we can but  agree to differ, but still with gratitude to our entertainers, like
two guests at the same dinner, one of whom takes clear and one  white soup.  By my way of thinking,
neither of us need be wrong.

The other papers are all interesting, adequate, clear, and with a  pleasant spice of the romantic.
It is a book you may be well  pleased to have so finished, and will do you much good.  The
Crashaw is capital:  capital; I like the taste of it.  Preface  clean and dignified.  The handling
throughout workmanlike, with  some four or five touches of preciosity, which I regret.

With my thanks for information, entertainment, and a pleasurable  envy here and there. - Yours
affectionately,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO W. E. HENLEY

LA SOLITUDE, HYERES-LES-PALMIERS, VAR, SEPTEMBER 19, 1883.

DEAR BOY, - Our letters vigorously cross:  you will ere this have  received a note to Coggie:
God knows what was in it.

It is strange, a little before the first word you sent me - so late  - kindly late, I know
and feel - I was thinking in my bed, when I  knew you I had six friends - Bob I had by nature;
then came the  good James Walter - with all his failings - the GENTLEMAN of the  lot, alas
to sink so low, alas to do so little, but now, thank God,  in his quiet rest; next I found
Baxter - well do I remember telling  Walter I had unearthed 'a W.S. that I thought would do'
- it was in  the Academy Lane, and he questioned me as to the Signet's  qualifications; fourth
came Simpson; somewhere about the same time,  I began to get intimate with Jenkin; last came
Colvin.  Then, one  black winter afternoon, long Leslie Stephen, in his velvet jacket,  met
me in the SPEC. by appointment, took me over to the infirmary,  and in the crackling, blighting
gaslight showed me that old head  whose excellent representation I see before me in the photograph.
Now when a man has six friends, to introduce a seventh is usually  hopeless.  Yet when you
were presented, you took to them and they  to you upon the nail.  You must have been a fine
fellow; but what a  singular fortune I must have had in my six friends that you should  take
to all.  I don't know if it is good Latin, most probably not:   but this is enscrolled before
my eye for Walter:  TANDEM E NUBIBUS  IN APRICUM PROPERAT.  Rest, I suppose, I know, was all
that  remained; but O to look back, to remember all the mirth, all the  kindness, all the humorous
limitations and loved defects of that  character; to think that he was young with me, sharing
that  weather-beaten, Fergussonian youth, looking forward through the  clouds to the sunburst;
and now clean gone from my path, silent -  well, well.  This has been a strange awakening.
Last night, when I  was alone in the house, with the window open on the lovely still  night,
I could have sworn he was in the room with me; I could show  you the spot; and, what was very
curious, I heard his rich  laughter, a thing I had not called to mind for I know not how long.

I see his coral waistcoat studs that he wore the first time he  dined in my house; I see his
attitude, leaning back a little,  already with something of a portly air, and laughing internally.
How I admired him!  And now in the West Kirk.

I am trying to write out this haunting bodily sense of absence;  besides, what else should
I write of?

Yes, looking back, I think of him as one who was good, though  sometimes clouded.  He was the
only gentle one of all my friends,  save perhaps the other Walter.  And he was certainly the
only  modest man among the lot.  He never gave himself away; he kept back  his secret; there
was always a gentle problem behind all.  Dear,  dear, what a wreck; and yet how pleasant is
the retrospect!  God  doeth all things well, though by what strange, solemn, and  murderous
contrivances!

It is strange:  he was the only man I ever loved who did not  habitually interrupt.  The fact
draws my own portrait.  And it is  one of the many reasons why I count myself honoured by his
friendship.  A man like you HAD to like me; you could not help  yourself; but Ferrier was above
me, we were not equals; his true  self humoured and smiled paternally upon my failings, even
as I  humoured and sorrowed over his.

Well, first his mother, then himself, they are gone:  'in their  resting graves.'

When I come to think of it, I do not know what I said to his  sister, and I fear to try again.
Could you send her this?  There  is too much both about yourself and me in it; but that, if
you do  not mind, is but a mark of sincerity.  It would let her know how  entirely, in the
mind of (I suppose) his oldest friend, the good,  true Ferrier obliterates the memory of the
other, who was only his  'lunatic brother.'

Judge of this for me, and do as you please; anyway, I will try to  write to her again; my last
was some kind of scrawl that I could  not see for crying.  This came upon me, remember, with
terrible  suddenness; I was surprised by this death; and it is fifteen or  sixteen years since
first I saw the handsome face in the SPEC.  I  made sure, besides, to have died first.  Love
to you, your wife,  and her sisters.

- Ever yours, dear boy,

R. L. S.

I never knew any man so superior to himself as poor James Walter.   The best of him only came
as a vision, like Corsica from the  Corniche.  He never gave his measure either morally or
intellectually.  The curse was on him.  Even his friends did not  know him but by fits.  I
have passed hours with him when he was so  wise, good, and sweet, that I never knew the like
of it in any  other.  And for a beautiful good humour he had no match.  I  remember breaking
in upon him once with a whole red-hot story (in  my worst manner), pouring words upon him by
the hour about some  truck not worth an egg that had befallen me; and suddenly, some  half
hour after, finding that the sweet fellow had some concern of  his own of infinitely greater
import, that he was patiently and  smilingly waiting to consult me on.  It sounds nothing;
but the  courtesy and the unselfishness were perfect.  It makes me rage to  think how few knew
him, and how many had the chance to sneer at  their better.

Well, he was not wasted, that we know; though if anything looked  liker irony than this fitting
of a man out with these rich  qualities and faculties to be wrecked and aborted from the very
stocks, I do not know the name of it.  Yet we see that he has left  an influence; the memory
of his patient courtesy has often checked  me in rudeness; has it not you?

You can form no idea of how handsome Walter was.  At twenty he was  splendid to see; then,
too, he had the sense of power in him, and  great hopes; he looked forward, ever jesting of
course, but he  looked to see himself where he had the right to expect.  He  believed in himself
profoundly; but HE NEVER DISBELIEVED IN OTHERS.   To the roughest Highland student he always
had his fine, kind, open  dignity of manner; and a good word behind his back.

The last time that I saw him before leaving for America - it was a  sad blow to both of us.
When he heard I was leaving, and that  might be the last time we might meet - it almost was
so - he was  terribly upset, and came round at once.  We sat late, in Baxter's  empty house,
where I was sleeping.  My dear friend Walter Ferrier:   O if I had only written to him more!
if only one of us in these  last days had been well!  But I ever cherished the honour of his
friendship, and now when he is gone, I know what I have lost still  better.  We live on, meaning
to meet; but when the hope is gone,  the, pang comes.

MY DEAR GOSSE, - It appears a bolt from Transatlantica is necessary  to produce four lines
from you.  It is not flattering; but as I was  always a bad correspondent, 'tis a vice to which
I am lenient.  I  give you to know, however, that I have already twice (this makes  three times)
sent you what I please to call a letter, and received  from you in return a subterfuge - or
nothing. . . .

My present purpose, however, which must not be postponed, is to ask  you to telegraph to the
Americans.

After a summer of good health of a very radiant order, toothache  and the death of a very old
friend, which came upon me like a  thunderclap, have rather shelved my powers.  I stare upon
the  paper, not write.  I wish I could write like your Sculptors; yet I  am well aware that
I should not try in that direction.  A certain  warmth (tepid enough) and a certain dash of
the picturesque are my  poor essential qualities; and if I went fooling after the too  classical,
I might lose even these.  But I envied you that page.

I am, of course, deep in schemes; I was so ever.  Execution alone  somewhat halts.  How much
do you make per annum, I wonder?  This  year, for the first time, I shall pass 300 pounds;
I may even get  halfway to the next milestone.  This seems but a faint  remuneration; and the
devil of it is, that I manage, with sickness,  and moves, and education, and the like, to keep
steadily in front  of my income.  However, I console myself with this, that if I were  anything
else under God's Heaven, and had the same crank health, I  should make an even zero.  If I
had, with my present knowledge,  twelve months of my old health, I would, could, and should
do  something neat.  As it is, I have to tinker at my things in little  sittings; and the rent,
or the butcher, or something, is always  calling me off to rattle up a pot-boiler.  And then
comes a back- set of my health, and I have to twiddle my fingers and play  patience.

Well, I do not complain, but I do envy strong health where it is  squandered.  Treasure your
strength, and may you never learn by  experience the profound ENNUI and irritation of the shelved
artist.   For then, what is life?  All that one has done to make one's life  effective then
doubles the itch of inefficiency.

I trust also you may be long without finding out the devil that  there is in a bereavement.
After love it is the one great surprise  that life preserves for us.  Now I don't think I can
be astonished  any more. - Yours affectionately,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

LA SOLITUDE, HYERES-LES-PALMIERS, VAR [OCTOBER 1883].

COLVIN, COLVIN, COLVIN, - Yours received; also interesting copy of  P. WHISTLES.  'In the multitude
of councillors the Bible declares  there is wisdom,' said my great-uncle, 'but I have always
found in  them distraction.'  It is extraordinary how tastes vary:  these  proofs have been
handed about, it appears, and I have had several  letters; and - distraction. 'AEsop:  the
Miller and the Ass.'   Notes on details:-

1. I love the occasional trochaic line; and so did many excellent  writers before me.

2. If you don't like 'A Good Boy,' I do.

3. In 'Escape at Bedtime,' I found two suggestions.  'Shove' for  'above' is a correction of
the press; it was so written.   'Twinkled' is just the error; to the child the stars appear
to be  there; any word that suggests illusion is a horror.

4. I don't care; I take a different view of the vocative.

5. Bewildering and childering are good enough for me.  These are  rhymes, jingles; I don't
go for eternity and the three unities.

I will delete some of those condemned, but not all.  I don't care  for the name Penny Whistles;
I sent a sheaf to Henley when I sent  'em.  But I've forgot the others.  I would just as soon
call 'em  'Rimes for Children' as anything else.  I am not proud nor  particular.

Your remarks on the BLACK ARROW are to the point.  I am pleased you  liked Crookback; he is
a fellow whose hellish energy has always  fired my attention.  I wish Shakespeare had written
the play after  he had learned some of the rudiments of literature and art rather  than before.
Some day, I will re-tickle the Sable Missile, and  shoot it, MOYENNANT FINANCES, once more
into the air; I can lighten  it of much, and devote some more attention to Dick o' Gloucester.
It's great sport to write tushery.

By this I reckon you will have heard of my proposed excursiolorum  to the Isles of Greece,
the Isles of Greece, and kindred sites.  If  the excursiolorum goes on, that is, if MOYENNANT
FINANCES comes  off, I shall write to beg you to collect introductiolorums for me.

Distinguo:  1. SILVERADO was not written in America, but in  Switzerland's icy mountains. 
2. What you read is the bleeding and  disembowelled remains of what I wrote.  3. The good stuff
is all to  come - so I think.  'The Sea Fogs,' 'The Hunter's Family,' 'Toils  and Pleasures'
- BELLES PAGES. - Yours ever,

RAMNUGGER.

O! - Seeley is too clever to live, and the book a gem.  But why has  he read too much Arnold?
Why will he avoid - obviously avoid -  fine writing up to which he has led?  This is a winking,
curled- and-oiled, ultra-cultured, Oxford-don sort of an affectation that  infuriates my honest
soul.  'You see' - they say - 'how unbombastic  WE are; we come right up to eloquence, and,
when it's hanging on  the pen, dammy, we scorn it!'  It is literary Deronda-ism.  If you  don't
want the woman, the image, or the phrase, mortify your vanity  and avoid the appearance of
wanting them.

Letter:  TO W. H. LOW

LA SOLITUDE, HYERES, OCTOBER [1883].

MY DEAR LOW, - . . . Some day or other, in Cassell's MAGAZINE OF  ART, you will see a paper
which will interest you, and where your  name appears.  It is called 'Fontainebleau:  Village
Communities of  Artists,' and the signature of R. L. Stevenson will be found  annexed

Please tell the editor of MANHATTAN the following secrets for me:   1ST, That I am a beast;
2ND, that I owe him a letter; 3RD, that I  have lost his, and cannot recall either his name
or address; 4TH,  that I am very deep in engagements, which my absurd health makes it  hard
for me to overtake; but 5TH, that I will bear him in mind; 6TH  and last, that I am a brute.

My address is still the same, and I live in a most sweet corner of  the universe, sea and fine
hills before me, and a rich variegated  plain; and at my back a craggy hill, loaded with vast
feudal ruins.   I am very quiet; a person passing by my door half startles me; but  I enjoy
the most aromatic airs, and at night the most wonderful  view into a moonlit garden.  By day
this garden fades into nothing,  overpowered by its surroundings and the luminous distance;
but at  night and when the moon is out, that garden, the arbour, the flight  of stairs that
mount the artificial hillock, the plumed blue gum- trees that hang trembling, become the very
skirts of Paradise.   Angels I know frequent it; and it thrills all night with the flutes 
of silence.  Damn that garden;- and by day it is gone.

Continue to testify boldly against realism.  Down with Dagon, the  fish god!  All art swings
down towards imitation, in these days,  fatally.  But the man who loves art with wisdom sees
the joke; it  is the lustful that tremble and respect her ladyship; but the  honest and romantic
lovers of the Muse can see a joke and sit down  to laugh with Apollo.

The prospect of your return to Europe is very agreeable; and I was  pleased by what you said
about your parents.  One of my oldest  friends died recently, and this has given me new thoughts
of death.   Up to now I had rather thought of him as a mere personal enemy of  my own; but
now that I see him hunting after my friends, he looks  altogether darker.  My own father is
not well; and Henley, of whom  you must have heard me speak, is in a questionable state of
health.   These things are very solemn, and take some of the colour out of  life.  It is a
great thing, after all, to be a man of reasonable  honour and kindness.  Do you remember once
consulting me in Paris  whether you had not better sacrifice honesty to art; and how, after
much confabulation, we agreed that your art would suffer if you  did?  We decided better than
we knew.  In this strange welter where  we live, all hangs together by a million filaments;
and to do  reasonably well by others, is the first prerequisite of art.  Art  is a virtue;
and if I were the man I should be, my art would rise  in the proportion of my life.

If you were privileged to give some happiness to your parents, I  know your art will gain by
it.  BY GOD, IT WILL!  SIC SUBSCRIBITUR,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO R. A. M. STEVENSON

LA SOLITUDE, HYERES-LES-PALMIERS [OCTOBER 1883].

MY DEAR BOB, - Yes, I got both your letters at Lyons, but have been  since then decading in
several steps Toothache; fever; Ferrier's  death; lung.  Now it is decided I am to leave to-morrow,
penniless,  for Nice to see Dr. Williams.

I was much struck by your last.  I have written a breathless note  on Realism for Henley; a
fifth part of the subject, hurriedly  touched, which will show you how my thoughts are driving.
You are  now at last beginning to think upon the problems of executive,  plastic art, for you
are now for the first time attacking them.   Hitherto you have spoken and thought of two things
- technique and  the ARS ARTIUM, or common background of all arts.  Studio work is  the real
touch.  That is the genial error of the present French  teaching.  Realism I regard as a mere
question of method.  The  'brown foreground,' 'old mastery,' and the like, ranking with  villanelles,
as technical sports and pastimes.  Real art, whether  ideal or realistic, addresses precisely
the same feeling, and seeks  the same qualities - significance or charm.  And the same - very
same - inspiration is only methodically differentiated according as  the artist is an arrant
realist or an arrant idealist.  Each, by  his own method, seeks to save and perpetuate the
same significance  or charm; the one by suppressing, the other by forcing, detail.   All other
idealism is the brown foreground over again, and hence  only art in the sense of a game, like
cup and ball.  All other  realism is not art at all - but not at all.  It is, then, an  insincere
and showy handicraft.

Were you to re-read some Balzac, as I have been doing, it would  greatly help to clear your
eyes.  He was a man who never found his  method.  An inarticulate Shakespeare, smothered under
forcible- feeble detail.  It is astounding to the riper mind how bad he is,  how feeble, how
untrue, how tedious; and, of course, when he  surrendered to his temperament, how good and
powerful.  And yet  never plain nor clear.  He could not consent to be dull, and thus  became
so.  He would leave nothing undeveloped, and thus drowned  out of sight of land amid the multitude
of crying and incongruous  details.  There is but one art - to omit!  O if I knew how to omit,
I would ask no other knowledge.  A man who knew how to omit would  make an ILIAD of a daily paper.

Your definition of seeing is quite right.  It is the first part of  omission to be partly blind.
Artistic sight is judicious  blindness.  Sam Bough must have been a jolly blind old boy.  He
would turn a corner, look for one-half or quarter minute, and then  say, 'This'll do, lad.'
Down he sat, there and then, with whole  artistic plan, scheme of colour, and the like, and
begin by laying  a foundation of powerful and seemingly incongruous colour on the  block. 
He saw, not the scene, but the water-colour sketch.  Every  artist by sixty should so behold
nature.  Where does he learn that?   In the studio, I swear.  He goes to nature for facts,
relations,  values - material; as a man, before writing a historical novel,  reads up memoirs.
But it is not by reading memoirs that he has  learned the selective criterion.  He has learned
that in the  practice of his art; and he will never learn it well, but when  disengaged from
the ardent struggle of immediate representation, of  realistic and EX FACTO art.  He learns
it in the crystallisation of  day-dreams; in changing, not in copying, fact; in the pursuit
of  the ideal, not in the study of nature.  These temples of art are,  as you say, inaccessible
to the realistic climber.  It is not by  looking at the sea that you get

'The multitudinous seas incarnadine,'

nor by looking at Mont Blanc that you find

'And visited all night by troops of stars.'

A kind of ardour of the blood is the mother of all this; and  according as this ardour is swayed
by knowledge and seconded by  craft, the art expression flows clear, and significance and charm,
like a moon rising, are born above the barren juggle of mere  symbols.

The painter must study more from nature than the man of words.  But  why?  Because literature
deals with men's business and passions  which, in the game of life, we are irresistibly obliged
to study;  but painting with relations of light, and colour, and  significances, and form,
which, from the immemorial habit of the  race, we pass over with an unregardful eye.  Hence
this crouching  upon camp-stools, and these crusts.  But neither one nor other is a  part of
art, only preliminary studies.

I want you to help me to get people to understand that realism is a  method, and only methodic
in its consequences; when the realist is  an artist, that is, and supposing the idealist with
whom you  compare him to be anything but a FARCEUR and a DILETTANTE.  The two  schools of working
do, and should, lead to the choice of different  subjects.  But that is a consequence, not
a cause.  See my chaotic  note, which will appear, I fancy, in November in Henley's sheet.

Poor Ferrier, it bust me horrid.  He was, after you, the oldest of  my friends.

I am now very tired, and will go to bed having prelected freely.   Fanny will finish.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO THOMAS STEVENSON

LA SOLITUDE, HYERES-LES-PALMIERS, VAR, 12TH OCTOBER 1883.

MY DEAR FATHER, - I have just lunched; the day is exquisite, the  air comes though the open
window rich with odour, and I am by no  means spiritually minded.  Your letter, however, was
very much  valued, and has been read oftener than once.  What you say about  yourself I was
glad to hear; a little decent resignation is not  only becoming a Christian, but is likely
to be excellent for the  health of a Stevenson.  To fret and fume is undignified, suicidally
foolish, and theologically unpardonable; we are here not to make,  but to tread predestined,
pathways; we are the foam of a wave, and  to preserve a proper equanimity is not merely the
first part of  submission to God, but the chief of possible kindnesses to those  about us.
I am lecturing myself, but you also.  To do our best is  one part, but to wash our hands smilingly
of the consequence is the  next part, of any sensible virtue.

I have come, for the moment, to a pause in my moral works; for I  have many irons in the fire,
and I wish to finish something to  bring coin before I can afford to go on with what I think
doubtfully to be a duty.  It is a most difficult work; a touch of  the parson will drive off
those I hope to influence; a touch of  overstrained laxity, besides disgusting, like a grimace,
may do  harm.  Nothing that I have ever seen yet speaks directly and  efficaciously to young
men; and I do hope I may find the art and  wisdom to fill up a gap.  The great point, as I
see it, is to ask  as little as possible, and meet, if it may be, every view or  absence of
view; and it should be, must be, easy.  Honesty is the  one desideratum; but think how hard
a one to meet.  I think all the  time of Ferrier and myself; these are the pair that I address.
Poor Ferrier, so much a better man than I, and such a temporal  wreck.  But the thing of which
we must divest our minds is to look  partially upon others; all is to be viewed; and the creature
judged, as he must be by his Creator, not dissected through a prism  of morals, but in the
unrefracted ray.  So seen, and in relation to  the almost omnipotent surroundings, who is to
distinguish between  F. and such a man as Dr. Candlish, or between such a man as David  Hume
and such an one as Robert Burns?  To compare my poor and good  Walter with myself is to make
me startle; he, upon all grounds  above the merely expedient, was the nobler being.  Yet wrecked
utterly ere the full age of manhood; and the last skirmishes so  well fought, so humanly useless,
so pathetically brave, only the  leaps of an expiring lamp.  All this is a very pointed instance.
It shuts the mouth.  I have learned more, in some ways, from him  than from any other soul
I ever met; and he, strange to think, was  the best gentleman, in all kinder senses, that I
ever knew. - Ever  your affectionate son,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO W H LOW

[CHALET LA SOLITUDE, HYERES, OCT. 23, 1883.]

MY DEAR LOW, - C'EST D'UN BON CAMARADE; and I am much obliged to  you for your two letters
and the inclosure.  Times are a lityle  changed with all of us since the ever memorable days
of Lavenue:   hallowed be his name! hallowed his old Fleury! - of which you did  not see -
I think - as I did - the glorious apotheosis:  advanced  on a Tuesday to three francs, on the
Thursday to six, and on Friday  swept off, holus bolus, for the proprietor's private consumption.
Well, we had the start of that proprietor.  Many a good bottle came  our way, and was, I think,
worthily made welcome.

I am pleased that Mr. Gilder should like my literature; and I ask  you particularly to thank
Mr. Bunner (have I the name right?) for  his notice, which was of that friendly, headlong sort
that really  pleases an author like what the French call a 'shake-hands.'  It  pleased me the
more coming from the States, where I have met not  much recognition, save from the buccaneers,
and above all from  pirates who misspell my name.  I saw my book advertised in a number  of
the CRITIC as the work of one R. L. Stephenson; and, I own, I  boiled.  It is so easy to know
the name of the man whose book you  have stolen; for there it is, at full length, on the title-page
of  your booty.  But no, damn him, not he!  He calls me Stephenson.   These woes I only refer
to by the way, as they set a higher value  on the CENTURY notice.

I am now a person with an established ill-health - a wife - a dog  possessed with an evil,
a Gadarene spirit - a chalet on a hill,  looking out over the Mediterranean - a certain reputation
- and  very obscure finances.  Otherwise, very much the same, I guess; and  were a bottle of
Fleury a thing to be obtained, capable of  developing theories along with a fit spirit even
as of yore.  Yet I  now draw near to the Middle Ages; nearly three years ago, that  fatal Thirty
struck; and yet the great work is not yet done - not  yet even conceived.  But so, as one goes
on, the wood seems to  thicken, the footpath to narrow, and the House Beautiful on the  hill's
summit to draw further and further away.  We learn, indeed,  to use our means; but only to
learn, along with it, the paralysing  knowledge that these means are only applicable to two
or three poor  commonplace motives.  Eight years ago, if I could have slung ink as  I can now,
I should have thought myself well on the road after  Shakespeare; and now - I find I have only
got a pair of walking- shoes and not yet begun to travel.  And art is still away there on 
the mountain summit.  But I need not continue; for, of course, this  is your story just as
much as it is mine; and, strange to think, it  was Shakespeare's too, and Beethoven's, and
Phidias's.  It is a  blessed thing that, in this forest of art, we can pursue our wood- lice
and sparrows, AND NOT CATCH THEM, with almost the same fervour  of exhilaration as that with
which Sophocles hunted and brought  down the Mastodon.

Tell me something of your work, and your wife. - My dear fellow, I  am yours ever,

R. L. STEVENSON.

My wife begs to be remembered to both of you; I cannot say as much  for my dog, who has never
seen you, but he would like, on general  principles, to bite you.

Letter:  TO W. E. HENLEY

[HYERES, NOVEMBER 1883.]

MY DEAR LAD, - . . .  Of course, my seamanship is jimmy:  did I not  beseech you I know not
how often to find me an ancient mariner -  and you, whose own wife's own brother is one of
the ancientest, did  nothing for me?  As for my seamen, did Runciman ever know  eighteenth
century buccaneers?  No?  Well, no more did I.  But I  have known and sailed with seamen too,
and lived and eaten with  them; and I made my put-up shot in no great ignorance, but as a 
put-up thing has to be made, I.E. to be coherent and picturesque,  and damn the expense.  Are
they fairly lively on the wires?  Then,  favour me with your tongues.  Are they wooden, and
dim, and no  sport?  Then it is I that am silent, otherwise not.  The work,  strange as it
may sound in the ear, is not a work of realism.  The  next thing I shall hear is that the etiquette
is wrong in Otto's  Court!  With a warrant, and I mean it to be so, and the whole  matter never
cost me half a thought.  I make these paper people to  please myself, and Skelt, and God Almighty,
and with no ulterior  purpose.  Yet am I mortal myself; for, as I remind you, I begged  for
a supervising mariner.  However, my heart is in the right  place.  I have been to sea, but
I never crossed the threshold of a  court; and the courts shall be the way I want 'em.

I'm glad to think I owe you the review that pleased me best of all  the reviews I ever had;
the one I liked best before that was -'s on  the ARABIANS.  These two are the flowers of the
collection,  according to me.  To live reading such reviews and die eating  ortolans - sich
is my aspiration.

Whenever you come you will be equally welcome.  I am trying to  finish OTTO ere you shall arrive,
so as to take and be able to  enjoy a well-earned - O yes, a well-earned - holiday.  Longman
fetched by Otto:  is it a spoon or a spoilt horn?  Momentous, if  the latter; if the former,
a spoon to dip much praise and pudding,  and to give, I do think, much pleasure.  The last
part, now in  hand, much smiles upon me. - Ever yours,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

LA SOLITUDE, HYERES, [NOVEMBER 1883].

MY DEAR MOTHER, - You must not blame me too much for my silence; I  am over head and ears in
work, and do not know what to do first.  I  have been hard at OTTO, hard at SILVERADO proofs,
which I have  worked over again to a tremendous extent; cutting, adding,  rewriting, until
some of the worst chapters of the original are  now, to my mind, as good as any.  I was the
more bound to make it  good, as I had such liberal terms; it's not for want of trying if I
have failed.

I got your letter on my birthday; indeed, that was how I found it  out about three in the afternoon,
when postie comes.  Thank you for  all you said.  As for my wife, that was the best investment
ever  made by man; but 'in our branch of the family' we seem to marry  well.  I, considering
my piles of work, am wonderfully well; I have  not been so busy for I know not how long.  I
hope you will send me  the money I asked however, as I am not only penniless, but shall  remain
so in all human probability for some considerable time.  I  have got in the mass of my expectations;
and the 100 pounds which  is to float us on the new year can not come due till SILVERADO is
all ready; I am delaying it myself for the moment; then will follow  the binders and the travellers
and an infinity of other nuisances;  and only at the last, the jingling-tingling.

Do you know that TREASURE ISLAND has appeared?  In the November  number of Henley's Magazine,
a capital number anyway, there is a  funny publisher's puff of it for your book; also a bad
article by  me.  Lang dotes on TREASURE ISLAND:  'Except TOM SAWYER and the  ODYSSEY,' he writes,
'I never liked any romance so much.'  I will  inclose the letter though.  The Bogue is angelic,
although very  dirty.  It has rained - at last!  It was jolly cold when the rain  came.

I was overjoyed to hear such good news of my father.  Let him go on  at that!

MY DEAR COLVIN, - I have been bad, but as you were worse, I feel no  shame.  I raise a blooming
countenance, not the evidence of a self- righteous spirit.

I continue my uphill fight with the twin spirits of bankruptcy and  indigestion.  Duns rage
about my portal, at least to fancy's ear.

I suppose you heard of Ferrier's death:  my oldest friend, except  Bob.  It has much upset
me.  I did not fancy how much.  I am  strangely concerned about it.

My house is the loveliest spot in the universe; the moonlight  nights we have are incredible;
love, poetry and music, and the  Arabian Nights, inhabit just my corner of the world - nest
there  like mavises.

Here lies The carcase of Robert Louis Stevenson, An active, austere, and not inelegant writer,
who, at the termination of a long career, wealthy, wise, benevolent, and honoured by the attention
of two hemispheres, yet owned it to have been his crowning favour TO INHABIT LA SOLITUDE.

(With the consent of the intelligent edility of Hyeres, he has been  interred, below this frugal
stone, in the garden which he honoured  for so long with his poetic presence.)

I must write more solemn letters.  Adieu.  Write.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MRS. MILNE

LA SOLITUDE, HYERES, [NOVEMBER 1883].

MY DEAR HENRIETTA, - Certainly; who else would they be?  More by  token, on that particular
occasion, you were sailing under the  title of Princess Royal; I, after a furious contest,
under that of  Prince Alfred; and Willie, still a little sulky, as the Prince of  Wales.  We
were all in a buck basket about half-way between the  swing and the gate; and I can still see
the Pirate Squadron heave  in sight upon the weather bow.

I wrote a piece besides on Giant Bunker; but I was not happily  inspired, and it is condemned.
Perhaps I'll try again; he was a  horrid fellow, Giant Bunker! and some of my happiest hours
were  passed in pursuit of him.  You were a capital fellow to play:  how  few there were who
could!  None better than yourself.  I shall  never forget some of the days at Bridge of Allan;
they were one  golden dream.  See 'A Good Boy' in the PENNY WHISTLES, much of the  sentiment
of which is taken direct from one evening at B. of A.  when we had had a great play with the
little Glasgow girl.   Hallowed be that fat book of fairy tales!  Do you remember acting  the
Fair One with Golden Locks?  What a romantic drama!  Generally  speaking, whenever I think
of play, it is pretty certain that you  will come into my head.  I wrote a paper called 'Child's
Play'  once, where, I believe, you or Willie would recognise things. . . .

Surely Willie is just the man to marry; and if his wife wasn't a  happy woman, I think I could
tell her who was to blame.  Is there  no word of it?  Well, these things are beyond arrangement;
and the  wind bloweth where it listeth - which, I observe, is generally  towards the west in
Scotland.  Here it prefers a south-easterly  course, and is called the Mistral - usually with
an adjective in  front.  But if you will remember my yesterday's toothache and this  morning's
crick, you will be in a position to choose an adjective  for yourself.  Not that the wind is
unhealthy; only when it comes  strong, it is both very high and very cold, which makes it the
d-v- l.  But as I am writing to a lady, I had better avoid this topic;  winds requiring a great
scope of language.

Please remember me to all at home; give Ramsay a pennyworth of  acidulated drops for his good
taste. - And believe me, your  affectionate cousin,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO MISS FERRIER

LA SOLITUDE, HYERES, VAR, NOVEMBER 22, 1883.

DEAR MISS FERRIER, - Many thanks for the photograph.  It is - well,  it is like most photographs.
The sun is an artist of too much  renown; and, at any rate, we who knew Walter 'in the brave
days of  old' will be difficult to please.

I was inexpressibly touched to get a letter from some lawyers as to  some money.  I have never
had any account with my friends; some  have gained and some lost; and I should feel there was
something  dishonest in a partial liquidation even if I could recollect the  facts, WHICH I
CANNOT.  But the fact of his having put aside this  memorandum touched me greatly.

The mystery of his life is great.  Our chemist in this place, who  had been at Malvern, recognised
the picture.  You may remember  Walter had a romantic affection for all pharmacies? and the
bottles  in the window were for him a poem?  He said once that he knew no  pleasure like driving
through a lamplit city, waiting for the  chemists to go by.

All these things return now.

He had a pretty full translation of Schiller's AESTHETIC LETTERS,  which we read together,
as well as the second part of FAUST, in  Gladstone Terrace, he helping me with the German.
There is no  keepsake I should more value than the MS. of that translation.   They were the
best days I ever had with him, little dreaming all  would so soon be over.  It needs a blow
like this to convict a man  of mortality and its burthen.  I always thought I should go by
myself; not to survive.  But now I feel as if the earth were  undermined, and all my friends
have lost one thickness of reality  since that one passed.  Those are happy who can take it
otherwise;  with that I found things all beginning to dislimn.  Here we have no  abiding city,
and one felt as though he had - and O too much acted.

But if you tell me, he did not feel my silence.  However, he must  have done so; and my guilt
is irreparable now.  I thank God at  least heartily that he did not resent it.

Please remember me to Sir Alexander and Lady Grant, to whose care I  will address this.  When
next I am in Edinburgh I will take  flowers, alas! to the West Kirk.  Many a long hour we passed
in  graveyards, the man who has gone and I - or rather not that man -  but the beautiful, genial,
witty youth who so betrayed him. - Dear  Miss Ferrier, I am yours most sincerely,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO W. H. LOW

LA SOLITUDE, HYERES, VAR, 13TH DECEMBER 1883.

MY DEAR LOW, - . . . I was much pleased with what you send about my  work.  Ill-health is a
great handicapper in the race.  I have never  at command that press of spirits that are necessary
to strike out a  thing red-hot.  SILVERADO is an example of stuff worried and pawed  about,
God knows how often, in poor health, and you can see for  yourself the result:  good pages,
an imperfect fusion, a certain  languor of the whole.  Not, in short, art.  I have told Roberts
to  send you a copy of the book when it appears, where there are some  fair passages that will
be new to you.  My brief romance, PRINCE  OTTO - far my most difficult adventure up to now
- is near an end.   I have still one chapter to write DE FOND EN COMBLE, and three or  four
to strengthen or recast.  The rest is done.  I do not know if  I have made a spoon, or only
spoiled a horn; but I am tempted to  hope the first.  If the present bargain hold, it will
not see the  light of day for some thirteen months.  Then I shall be glad to  know how it strikes
you.  There is a good deal of stuff in it, both  dramatic and, I think, poetic; and the story
is not like these  purposeless fables of to-day, but is, at least, intended to stand  FIRM
upon a base of philosophy - or morals - as you please.  It has  been long gestated, and is
wrought with care.  ENFIN, NOUS VERRONS.   My labours have this year for the first time been
rewarded with  upwards of 350 pounds; that of itself, so base we are! encourages  me; and the
better tenor of my health yet more. - Remember me to  Mrs. Low, and believe me, yours most
sincerely,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO THOMAS STEVENSON

LA SOLITUDE, DECEMBER 20, 1883.

MY DEAR FATHER, - I do not know which of us is to blame; I suspect  it is you this time.  The
last accounts of you were pretty good, I  was pleased to see; I am, on the whole, very well
- suffering a  little still from my fever and liver complications, but better.

I have just finished re-reading a book, which I counsel you above  all things NOT to read,
as it has made me very ill, and would make  you worse - Lockhart's SCOTT.  It is worth reading,
as all things  are from time to time that keep us nose to nose with fact; though I  think such
reading may be abused, and that a great deal of life is  better spent in reading of a light
and yet chivalrous strain.   Thus, no Waverley novel approaches in power, blackness, bitterness,
and moral elevation to the diary and Lockhart's narrative of the  end; and yet the Waverley
novels are better reading for every day  than the Life.  You may take a tonic daily, but not
phlebotomy.

The great double danger of taking life too easily, and taking it  too hard, how difficult it
is to balance that!  But we are all too  little inclined to faith; we are all, in our serious
moments, too  much inclined to forget that all are sinners, and fall justly by  their faults,
and therefore that we have no more to do with that  than with the thunder-cloud; only to trust,
and do our best, and  wear as smiling a face as may be for others and ourselves.  But  there
is no royal road among this complicated business.  Hegel the  German got the best word of all
philosophy with his antinomies:   the contrary of everything is its postulate.  That is, of
course,  grossly expressed, but gives a hint of the idea, which contains a  great deal of the
mysteries of religion, and a vast amount of the  practical wisdom of life.  For your part,
there is no doubt as to  your duty - to take things easy and be as happy as you can, for  your
sake, and my mother's, and that of many besides.  Excuse this  sermon. - Ever your loving son,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MR. AND MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

LA SOLITUDE, DECEMBER 25, 1883.

MY DEAR FATHER AND MOTHER, - This it is supposed will reach you  about Christmas, and I believe
I should include Lloyd in the  greeting.  But I want to lecture my father; he is not grateful
enough; he is like Fanny; his resignation is not the 'true blue.'   A man who has gained a
stone; whose son is better, and, after so  many fears to the contrary, I dare to say, a credit
to him; whose  business is arranged; whose marriage is a picture - what I should  call resignation
in such a case as his would be to 'take down his  fiddle and play as lood as ever he could.'
That and nought else.   And now, you dear old pious ingrate, on this Christmas morning,  think
what your mercies have been; and do not walk too far before  your breakfast - as far as to
the top of India Street, then to the  top of Dundas Street, and then to your ain stair heid;
and do not  forget that even as LABORARE, so JOCULARI, EST ORARE; and to be  happy the first
step to being pious.

I have as good as finished my novel, and a hard job it has been -  but now practically over,
LAUS DEO!  My financial prospects better  than ever before; my excellent wife a touch dolorous,
like Mr.  Tommy; my Bogue quite converted, and myself in good spirits.  O,  send Curry Powder
per Baxter.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

[LA SOLITUDE, HYERES], LAST SUNDAY OF '83.

MY DEAR MOTHER, - I give my father up.  I give him a parable:  that  the Waverley novels are
better reading for every day than the  tragic Life.  And he takes it backside foremost, and
shakes his  head, and is gloomier than ever.  Tell him that I give him up.  I  don't want no
such a parent.  This is not the man for my money.  I  do not call that by the name of religion
which fills a man with  bile.  I write him a whole letter, bidding him beware of extremes,
and telling him that his gloom is gallows-worthy; and I get back an  answer - Perish the thought
of it.

Here am I on the threshold of another year, when, according to all  human foresight, I should
long ago have been resolved into my  elements; here am I, who you were persuaded was born to
disgrace  you - and, I will do you the justice to add, on no such  insufficient grounds - no
very burning discredit when all is done;  here am I married, and the marriage recognised to
be a blessing of  the first order, A1 at Lloyd's.  There is he, at his not first  youth, able
to take more exercise than I at thirty-three, and  gaining a stone's weight, a thing of which
I am incapable.  There  are you; has the man no gratitude?  There is Smeoroch:  is he  blind?
Tell him from me that all this is

NOT THE TRUE BLUE!

I will think more of his prayers when I see in him a spirit of  PRAISE.  Piety is a more childlike
and happy attitude than he  admits.  Martha, Martha, do you hear the knocking at the door?
But  Mary was happy.  Even the Shorter Catechism, not the merriest  epitome of religion, and
a work exactly as pious although not quite  so true as the multiplication table - even that
dry-as-dust epitome  begins with a heroic note.  What is man's chief end?  Let him study  that;
and ask himself if to refuse to enjoy God's kindest gifts is  in the spirit indicated.  Up,
Dullard!  It is better service to  enjoy a novel than to mump.

I have been most unjust to the Shorter Catechism, I perceive.  I  wish to say that I keenly
admire its merits as a performance; and  that all that was in my mind was its peculiarly unreligious
and  unmoral texture; from which defect it can never, of course,  exercise the least influence
on the minds of children.

MY DEAR PEOPLE, - A Good New Year to you.  The year closes, leaving  me with 50 pounds in the
bank, owing no man nothing, 100 pounds  more due to me in a week or so, and 150 pounds more
in the course  of the month; and I can look back on a total receipt of 465 pounds,  0s. 6d.
for the last twelve months!

And yet I am not happy!

Yet I beg!  Here is my beggary:-

1. Sellar's Trial. 2. George Borrow's Book about Wales. 3. My Grandfather's Trip to Holland.
4. And (but this is, I fear, impossible) the Bell Rock Book.

When I think of how last year began, after four months of sickness  and idleness, all my plans
gone to water, myself starting alone, a  kind of spectre, for Nice - should I not be grateful?
Come, let us  sing unto the Lord!

Nor should I forget the expected visit, but I will not believe in  that till it befall; I am
no cultivator of disappointments, 'tis a  herb that does not grow in my garden; but I get some
good crops  both of remorse and gratitude.  The last I can recommend to all  gardeners; it
grows best in shiny weather, but once well grown, is  very hardy; it does not require much
labour; only that the  husbandman should smoke his pipe about the flower-plots and admire 
God's pleasant wonders.  Winter green (otherwise known as  Resignation, or the 'false gratitude
plant') springs in much the  same soil; is little hardier, if at all; and requires to be so
dug  about and dunged, that there is little margin left for profit.  The  variety known as
the Black Winter green (H. V. Stevensoniana) is  rather for ornament than profit.

'John, do you see that bed of resignation?' - 'It's doin' bravely,  sir.' - 'John, I will not
have it in my garden; it flatters not the  eye and comforts not the stomach; root it out.'
- 'Sir, I ha'e seen  o' them that rase as high as nettles; gran' plants!' - 'What then?   Were
they as tall as alps, if still unsavoury and bleak, what  matters it?  Out with it, then; and
in its place put Laughter and a  Good Conceit (that capital home evergreen), and a bush of
Flowering  Piety - but see it be the flowering sort - the other species is no  ornament to
any gentleman's Back Garden.'

JNO. BUNYAN.

MY DEAR S. C., - You will already have received a not very sane  note from me; so your patience
was rewarded - may I say, your  patient silence?  However, now comes a letter, which on receipt,
I  thus acknowledge.

I have already expressed myself as to the political aspect.  About  Grahame, I feel happier;
it does seem to have been really a good,  neat, honest piece of work.  We do not seem to be
so badly off for  commanders:  Wolseley and Roberts, and this pile of Woods,  Stewarts, Alisons,
Grahames, and the like.  Had we but ONE  statesman on any side of the house!

Two chapters of OTTO do remain:  one to rewrite, one to create; and  I am not yet able to tackle
them.  For me it is my chief o' works;  hence probably not so for others, since it only means
that I have  here attacked the greatest difficulties.  But some chapters towards  the end:
three in particular - I do think come off.  I find them  stirring, dramatic, and not unpoetical.
We shall see, however; as  like as not, the effort will be more obvious than the success. 
For, of course, I strung myself hard to carry it out.  The next  will come easier, and possibly
be more popular.  I believe in the  covering of much paper, each time with a definite and not
too  difficult artistic purpose; and then, from time to time, drawing  oneself up and trying,
in a superior effort, to combine the  facilities thus acquired or improved.  Thus one progresses.
But,  mind, it is very likely that the big effort, instead of being the  masterpiece, may be
the blotted copy, the gymnastic exercise.  This  no man can tell; only the brutal and licentious
public, snouting in  Mudie's wash-trough, can return a dubious answer.

I am to-day, thanks to a pure heaven and a beneficent, loud- talking, antiseptic mistral, on
the high places as to health and  spirits.  Money holds out wonderfully.  Fanny has gone for
a drive  to certain meadows which are now one sheet of jonquils:  sea-bound  meadows, the thought
of which may freshen you in Bloomsbury.  'Ye  have been fresh and fair, Ye have been filled
with flowers' - I  fear I misquote.  Why do people babble?  Surely Herrick, in his  true vein,
is superior to Martial himself, though Martial is a very  pretty poet.

Did you ever read St. Augustine?  The first chapters of the  CONFESSIONS are marked by a commanding
genius.  Shakespearian in  depth.  I was struck dumb, but, alas! when you begin to wander into
controversy, the poet drops out.  His description of infancy is  most seizing.  And how is
this:  'Sed majorum nugae negotia  vocantur; puerorum autem talia cum sint puniuntur a majoribus.'
Which is quite after the heart of R. L. S.  See also his splendid  passage about the 'luminosus
limes amicitiae' and the 'nebulae de  limosa concupiscentia carnis'; going on 'UTRUMQUE in
confuso  aestuabat et rapiebat imbecillam aetatem per abrupta cupiditatum.'   That 'Utrumque'
is a real contribution to life's science.  Lust  ALONE is but a pigmy; but it never, or rarely,
attacks us single- handed.

Do you ever read (to go miles off, indeed) the incredible Barbey  d'Aurevilly?  A psychological
Poe - to be for a moment Henley.  I  own with pleasure I prefer him with all his folly, rot,
sentiment,  and mixed metaphors, to the whole modern school in France.  It  makes me laugh
when it's nonsense; and when he gets an effect  (though it's still nonsense and mere Poery,
not poesy) it wakens  me.  CE QUI NE MEURT PAS nearly killed me with laughing, and left  me
- well, it left me very nearly admiring the old ass.  At least,  it's the kind of thing one
feels one couldn't do.  The dreadful  moonlight, when they all three sit silent in the room
- by George,  sir, it's imagined - and the brief scene between the husband and  wife is all
there.  QUANT AU FOND, the whole thing, of course, is a  fever dream, and worthy of eternal
laughter.  Had the young man  broken stones, and the two women been hard-working honest  prostitutes,
there had been an end of the whole immoral and  baseless business:  you could at least have
respected them in that  case.

I also read PETRONIUS ARBITER, which is a rum work, not so immoral  as most modern works, but
singularly silly.  I tackled some Tacitus  too.  I got them with a dreadful French crib on
the same page with  the text, which helps me along and drives me mad.  The French do  not even
try to translate.  They try to be much more classical than  the classics, with astounding results
of barrenness and tedium.   Tacitus, I fear, was too solid for me.  I liked the war part; but
the dreary intriguing at Rome was too much.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MR. DICK

LA SOLITUDE, HYERES, VAR, 12TH MARCH 1884.

