The stars were shining brightly, and there was no sign of light in the eastern sky, when all
were up and busy making preparations for the day's journey.  What most perplexed the boys was
that there was no preparation made for washing hands or faces.  Towels and soap were not considered
essentials on such a journey.  Each had in his pocket a comb and a toothbrush, and with these
and a cup of melted snow he had to be content.

Frank, young Englishman that he was, dearly loved his tub, or bath, and so it seemed about
the hardest deprivation thus far presented that he could neither wash his hands nor face.

"Too cold for that," said the guide.  "A missionary once tried it, although we warned him against
it.  He was three months healing up his chapped and bleeding hands."  Then the guide added,
as a little consolation, "If you like you can give yourself a dry rub with a piece of deerskin."

The breakfast was similar to the supper of the previous evening. Indeed, there was about the
same bill of fare for every meal.  It was strong, hearty food, and everyone was ready to do
ample justice to it.

After breakfast came prayers.  A few verses from the good Book were read by Memotas, and then
prayers were offered.  Twice every day do these godly Indians thus worship God.  They are the
converts of self- sacrificing missionaries who, coming into these lands, amid the privations
and hardships incident to such lonely, solitary places, here patiently toiled and laboured
to win these natives from their degrading, superstitious, abominable old religion to a knowledge
of the one living and true God.  They have not toiled in vain, as the true, noble, consistent
lives of hundreds of their converts now bear witness.

The catching and harnessing of the dogs is a matter of pleasure or trouble, just as the dogs
have been trained.  Dogs kindly treated, and taught to obey, give no trouble, but with many,
where their training was defective, there is constant annoyance and worry.  The boys had treated
their dogs so kindly that the cheery call was all that was needed.  So with all the trains
of Mr Ross's except one.  These were what might be called a scratch train.  They had been bought
singly from different parties.  When in harness they were the equal of any, but the trouble
was to get them into their harness.  One was a white animal.  At the first sound or movement
in the camp, he would sometimes quickly sneak away from where he had nested all night, and
then lie down quietly in the snow.  So white and still was he that it was impossible for the
keenest eye to detect him in the early morning starlight.  No calling would bring him.  He
just lay there perfectly still, and buried enough to be even with the snow around him.  When
he had one of these skulking tricks on him the quickest way to find him was for several Indians
to begin tramping in ever-widening circles around the camp until they ran on him.  He would
never run away, but his cunning trick was really more provoking than if he did.  He was at
length broken of it by being thoroughly blackened.  Then, of course, he could be easily seen.
This so grieved and humiliated him that he never tried the trick again, even after his beautiful
white coat was cleaned for him, much to his great joy.

Some dogs, as soon as they hear the bells jingling in the morning as their drivers come for
them, will skulk off into dark places in the forests.  There it is often difficult to find
them.  Then again some are so wild that a rope at least sixty feet in length is tied to their
necks in the evening as they are unharnessed.  By tramping around them in the morning the driver
at length gets hold of the rope and draws in the culprit.

A missionary who travelled some thousands of miles every winter with dogs, had about the most
satisfactory way of summarily dealing with skulkers.

He had in his own team a powerful St. Bernard, so trained that all he had to do was to show
him the collar of the missing dog and then send him after the truant.  Hamilton gave one smell
at the collar and then was off.  If that dog was anywhere within two miles he was driven into
the camp in a hurry.  If a stubborn, obstinate dog objected to march in before him, he gave
him a shaking that never had to be repeated.  Dogs have good memories for various things.

The loading the sleds was not as easy a matter as some might imagine. This the boys found out
when they tried to attend to the work themselves.  As stated somewhere else, the sleds are
only sixteen inches wide and ten feet long.  They are made of two oak boards lying on the flat
and well fastened together by crossbars.  The front end is planed thin and steamed, and is
then curled up more or less gracefully, according to the taste and skill of the maker.  They
have no runners on them.  They just glide along on the smooth flat under surface that by wear
becomes like polished glass.  Along each side numerous loops are securely fastened.  When the
empty sled is to be loaded, the first thing is to spread out over it one of these large deerskin
wrappers, the sled being under the exact middle.  Then the various articles constituting the
load, blankets, robes, provisions, kettles, guns, dog-fish, and everything else, are carefully
piled up, the heaviest at the bottom, to make the upsets as few as possible.  Then the great
deerskin leather is carefully and tightly folded over from both sides, and the whole is securely
lashed on by the strong deerskin ropes, which are passed from side to side through the strong
loops on the sled.  An experienced driver will so well tie on a great load of the most miscellaneous
articles that it will not give an inch, or be in the slightest degree disarranged, no matter
how many times it may upset, or roll over, or tumble down hillsides, either end first, or sideways.
So the boys, after finding that their best handiwork in this line often came to grief in bad
places, were glad to avail themselves of the assistance of a clever Indian, and there was no
more trouble.

One careful look all around to see that nothing has been forgotten, and the cheery "Marche!"
is heard.  Away rushes the guide, and another day's journey is begun.

Winter Adventures of Three Boys--by Egerton R.  Young

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN.

STILL ON THE WAY TO THE BEAVERS--THE BLIZZARD IN THE CAMP--SLEEPING AND EATING UNDER DIFFICULTIES--VICIOUS
LITTLE BEAVER DOGS--THE BEAVER HOUSE--PREPARATIONS FOR THEIR CAPTURE--THE BEAVERS' KITCHENS--DISCOVERED
BY THE LITTLE DOGS--HOW DESTROYED--THE METHOD OF CAPTURE--MAN'S EXPERIENCE VERSUS ANIMAL INSTINCT--THE
RICH HARVEST OF BEAVERS.

Still on the way for the beavers!

We are surely a long time getting there, but every mile of the journey is interesting and full
of novelty.  We left the blazing camp fire at a little this side of the Wolf's Cove.  The stars
were shining brightly in the heavens.  Even the morning star, now so brilliant, had not as
the harbinger of the great sun yet made its appearance.

As a help to brighten up the trail for a short distance it is generally customary to pile on
the fire, before starting, all of the wood remaining.  This makes things look cheerful, and
assists in the last investigation of the camp that nothing, not even a half-buried axe, is
left behind.

At first the progress is not very rapid.  It is fearfully cold.  The dogs seem a little stiff,
and some of them act as though they would much prefer to remain near that cozy camp fire. 
But there is no time for regrets or delays.

"Marche!  Marche!" is the cry, and as the whips, wielded by dexterous hands, give out their
emphatic cracks the coldness and stiffness soon wear off, and after the first mile or two the
progress is very much improved as dogs and men warm up to their work.

We need not dwell much longer on the journey.  Enough has been given to enable every bright
boy and clever girl who reads these pages to see how it is that travellers get along in a land
where only the canoe in summer and the dog-train in winter afford them any possibilities for
locomotion.  Here are no locomotives, but lots of locomotion, and the most of it is done on
foot, as often it is quite enough for the dogs to drag the heavy loads through the deep snow
and in the long, tangled forests, without carrying an additional man or boy.  So it is walk,
or run, or more generally trot, as the case may be, as the dogs are able to get on or the trail
will permit.

Another long day, with its glorious sunrise, and then, after the weary hours of travel and
the several stops to eat, the sunset in cold splendour comes, and with it Memotas calls for
the halt.  Then another night in the woods, very similar to the one fully described, is passed,
with the exception that during the hours of troubled slumber the fierce winds arose, and the
light, dry snow in the three piled-up snowbanks of the camp was rudely seized hold of by rough
old Boreas and driven hither and thither in his own rough way.  Most of the snow seemed to
find its way back to the place, from which the snowshoes some hours before had thrown it, and
now well it is for our young lads that they are so completely covered up in their bed, for
the snow is now upon them to the depth of a couple of feet.  Fortunately, the snow is like
an extra blanket which Dame Nature has thrown upon them to add to their comfort. When the storm
was beginning, and they began to move as some erratic snowflakes were so twisted around that
they reached their faces, the guide, who well knew what a wretched night of discomfort would
be theirs if they now, in the blinding storm, uncovered their heads, shouted to them with a
good deal of sternness, "Do not uncover your heads; lie still and sleep."  This, after a little
effort, they were able to do. The fun, or rather discomfort, came in the morning, when the
cry to get up was heard.  Suddenly they sprang up, but in spite of all their quickness some
of the snow went into their faces, and down their necks, and--well, it was far from agreeable.

The outlook was dismal enough.  The storm still continued raging.  There was, in addition to
the wind playing all sorts of pranks, with what had already fallen, now a heavy snowfall besides.
It seemed to penetrate everywhere.  It forced its way into their eyes and noses and pockets,
and tried to get under their caps and capotes.  The fire was completely extinguished.  In fact,
where the bright, blazing fire was so cheerily throwing out its heat and warmth when they were
tucked in by the faithful Indian, now a great snowdrift occupied the very spot.

The experienced travellers in these lands, even under such conditions and worse, do not lose
heart.  Quickly they went to work.  Strong axes soon felled more dry trees, and cut them into
logs.  Others, with snowshoes as shovels, soon cleared away the snow drift from the fireplace.
A skillful firemaker soon had the dry kindling and chips under the logs in ablaze, and now
the wind only fanned the flames to a greater brightness.

