There are considerable mines of gold and silver in several parts of the empire, but the government
does not permit them to be all worked, for fear of depreciating the value of these metals.
They supply, with copper, the material of the currency, and are also liberally used in the
decoration of public buildings, and in the domestic utensils of the wealthy. There is a sufficiency
of quicksilver, lead, and tin, for the wants of the country; and one island is entirely covered
with sulphur. Copper is very abundant, and of remarkably fine quality. All kitchen utensils,
tobacco-pipes, and fire-shovels, are made of it; and so well made, that our author mentions
his tea-kettle as having stood on the fire, like all other Japanese kettles, day and night
for months, without burning into holes. This metal is likewise employed for sheathing ships,
and covering the joists and flat roofs of houses. Iron is less abundant, and much that is used
is obtained from the Dutch. Nails alone, of which immense numbers are used in all carpentry-work,
consume a large quantity. Diamonds, cornelians, jaspers, some very fine agates, and other precious
stones, are found; but the natives seem not well to understand polishing them. Pearls are abundant;
but not being considered ornamental, they are reserved for the Chinese market.

Steel and porcelain are the manufactures in which the Japanese chiefly excel, besides those
in silk-stuffs and lacquered ware already mentioned. Their porcelain is far superior to the
Chinese, but it is scarce and dear. With respect to steel manufactures, the sabres and daggers
of Japan yield only perhaps to those of Damascus; and Golownin says their cabinet-makers' tools
might almost be compared with the English. In painting, engraving, and printing, they are far
behind; and they seem to have no knowledge of ship-building or navigation beyond what suffices
for coasting voyages, though they have intelligent and enterprising sailors. There is an immense
internal traffic, for facilitating which there are good roads and bridges where water-carriage
is impracticable. These distant Orientals have likewise bills of exchange and commercial gazettes.
The emperor enjoys a monopoly of the foreign commerce.

It is popularly said, that Japan has two emperors--one spiritual, and the other temporal. The
former, however, having no share in the administration of the empire, and seldom even hearing
of state affairs, is no sovereign according to the ideas we attach to that term. He seems to
stand much in the same relation to the emperor that the popes once did to the sovereigns of
Europe. He governs Kioto as a small independent state; receives the emperor to an interview
once in seven years; is consulted by him on extraordinary emergencies; receives occasional
embassies and presents from him, and bestows his blessing in return. His dignity, unlike that
of the Roman pontiffs, is hereditary, and he is allowed twelve wives, that his race may not
become extinct. According to Japanese records, the present dynasty, including about 130 Kin-reys,
has been maintained in a direct line for above twenty-four centuries. The person of the Kin-rey
is so sacred, that no ordinary mortal may see any part of him but his feet, and that only once
a year; every vessel which he uses must be broken immediately; for if another should even by
accident eat or drink out of it, he must be put to death. Every garment which he wears must
be manufactured by virgin hands, from the earliest process in the preparation of the silk.

The adherents of the aboriginal Japanese religion, of which the Kin-rey is the head, adore
numerous divinities called Kami, or immortal spirits, to whom they offer prayers, flowers,
and sometimes more substantial gifts. They also worship Kadotski, or saints--mortals canonised
by the Kin-rey--and build temples in their honour. The laws concerning personal and ceremonial
purity, which form the principal feature of this religion, are exceedingly strict, not unlike
those imposed on the ancient Jews. There are several orders of priests, monks, and nuns, whose
austerity, like that of Europe, is maintained in theory more than in practice.

Three other creeds, the Brahminical, the Confucian, and that which deifies the heavenly bodies,
have many adherents; but their priests all acknowledge a certain religious supremacy to exist
in the Kin-rey. There is universal toleration in these matters; every citizen may profess what
faith he chooses, and change it as often as he chooses, without any one inquiring into his
reasons; only it must be a spontaneous choice, for proselyting is forbidden by law. Christianity
alone is proscribed, and that on account of the political mischief said to have been effected
through its adherents in the seventeenth century. There is a law, by which no one may hire
a servant without receiving a certificate of his not being a Christian; and on New-Year's Day,
which is a great national festival, all the inhabitants of Nangasaki are obliged to ascend
a staircase, and trample on the crucifix, and other insignia of the Romish faith, which are
laid on the steps as a test. It is said that many perform the act in violation of their feelings.
So much of the religious state of the empire Golownin elicited in conversation with Teske and
others; but everything on this subject was communicated with evident reluctance; and though
in the course of the walks which they were permitted to take in harness, the Russian captives
sometimes saw the interior of the temples, they were never permitted to enter while any religious
rites were celebrated.

With respect to the civil administration of Japan, our author seems to have gathered little
that was absolutely new to us. The empire comprises above 200 states, which are governed as
independent sovereignties by princes called Damyos, who frame and enforce their own laws. Though
most of these principalities are very small, some of them are powerful: the damyo of Sindai,
for instance, visits the imperial court with a retinue of 60,000. Their dependence on the emperor
appears chiefly in their being obliged to maintain a certain number of troops, which are at
his disposal. Those provinces which belong directly to the emperor, are placed under governors
called Bunyos, whose families reside at the capital as hostages. Every province has two bunyos,
each of whom spends six months in the government and six at Yedo.

The supreme council of the emperor consists of five sovereign princes, who decide on all ordinary
measures without referring to him. An inferior council of fifteen princes or nobles presides
over important civil and criminal cases. The general laws are few and well known. They are
very severe; but the judges generally find means of evading them where their enforcement would
involve a violation of those of humanity. In some cases, as in conjugal infidelity or filial
impiety, individuals are permitted to avenge their own wrong, even to the taking of life. Civil
cases are generally decided by arbitrators, and only when they fail to settle a matter is there
recourse to the public courts of justice. Taxes are generally paid to the reigning prince or
emperor, in tithes of the agricultural, manufactured, or other productions of the country.

Such were some of the leading particulars ascertained by Golownin concerning the social and
civil condition of this singular people. He says, they always appeared very happy, and their
demeanour was characterised by lively and polite manners, with the most imperturbable good
temper. It seems at length to have been through fear of a Russian invasion, rather than from
any sense of justice, that his Japanese majesty, in reply to the importunities of the officers
of the Diana, consented to release the captives, on condition of receiving from the Russian
government a solemn disavowal of having sanctioned the proceedings of Chwostoff. Having obtained
this, the officers repaired for the fourth time to these unfriendly shores, and enjoyed the
happiness of embracing their companions, and taking them on board.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Japan and the Japanese. By Captain Golownin. London: Colburn & Co. 1852.

[2] Sagi is the strong drink of Japan, distilled from rice.

THINGS TALKED OF IN LONDON.

                                             July 1852.

When we shall have a constant supply of pure water--a complete system of efficient and innoxious
sewers--a service of street hydrants--when the Thames shall cease to be the cloaca maxima,
are questions to which, however seriously asked, it is not easy to get an answer. Add to these
grievances, the delay of proper regulations for abolishing intramural interments, and the fact
that Smithfield is not to be removed further than Copenhagen Fields--a locality already surrounded
with houses--and it will occasion no surprise that the authorities are treated with anything
but compliments.

The laying down of an under-sea telegraph wire across the Irish Channel, may be taken as a
new instance of the indifference consequent on familiarity. When the line was laid from Dover
to Calais, the whole land rang with the fact; but now the sinking of a wire three times the
length, in a channel three times the width, excites scarcely a remark, and seems to be looked
on as a matter of course. The wire, which is eighty miles in length, is said to weigh eighty
tons. It was payed out and sunk from the deck of the Britannia, at the rate of from three to
five miles an hour, and was successfully laid, from Holyhead to Howth, in from twelve to fifteen
hours; and now a message may be flashed from Trieste to Galway in a period brief enough to
satisfy the most impatient. The means of travel to the East, too, are becoming tangible in
the Egyptian railway, of which some thirty miles are in a state of forwardness, besides which
a hotel is to be built at Thebes; so that travellers, no longer compelled to bivouac in the
desert, will find a teeming larder and well-aired beds in the land of the Sphinxes. And, better
still, among a host of beneficial reforms to take place in our Customs' administration, there
is one which provides that the baggage of travellers arriving in the port of London shall be
examined as they come up the river, instead of being sent to the Custom-house.

By a report of the Astronomer-royal to the Board of Visitors, who have lately made their annual
inspection of the Greenwich Observatory, we are informed, of a singular fact, that observations
of the pole-star shew that its position varies some three or four seconds on repeating the
observations at intervals of a few months, and this notwithstanding the extreme accuracy of
the transit circle. The only explanation which can as yet be given for this phenomenon is,
that the earth, solid as it appears, is liable to slight occasional movements or oscillations.

We shall know, in a few weeks, the result of the telegraphic correspondence with the Observatory
at Paris--one interesting point being, as to whether the respective longitudes, as at present
determined, will be verified by the galvanic test. Besides which, Greenwich time is to be sent
every day to London, where a pole, with a huge sliding-ball, has been fixed on the top of the
Telegraph Office, near Charing Cross. This ball is to be made to descend at one o'clock simultaneously
with the well-known ball which surmounts the Observatory; and thus scientific inquirers--to
say nothing of the crowds who will daily throng the footways of the Strand to witness the downcome--will
be informed of the true time, while, by means of the wires, it may be flashed to all parts
of the kingdom.

The lecture with which Professor Faraday wound up the course at the Royal Institution may be
mentioned here, seeing that it adds somewhat to our knowledge of the theory and phenomena of
magnetism. As usual, the lecture-room was crowded; and those who could not understand, had
at least the satisfaction of being able to say they were present. Mr Faraday, who, enlarging
upon his view, announced, a short time since, that there are such things as magnetic lines
of force, now contends that these lines have a 'physical character'--a point most satisfactorily
proved by sundry experiments during the lecture. The inquiry is one, as Mr Faraday observes,
on the 'very edge of science,' trenching on the bounds of speculation; but such as eminently
to provoke research. The phenomena, he says, 'lead on, by deduction and correction, to the
discovery of new phenomena; and so cause an increase and advancement of real physical truth,
which, unlike the hypothesis that led to it, becomes fundamental knowledge, not subject to
change.' A chief point of discussion to which the investigations have led is: Whether the phenomena
of what we call gravity may not be resolvable into those of magnetism--a force acting at a
distance, or by lines of power. 'There is one question,' continues Mr Faraday, 'in relation
to gravity, which, if we could ascertain or touch it, would greatly enlighten us. It is, whether
gravitation requires time. If it did, it would shew undeniably that a physical agency existed
in the course of the line of force. It seems equally impossible to prove or disprove this point;
since there is no capability of suspending, changing, or annihilating the power (gravity),
or annihilating the matter in which the power resides.' The lines of magnetic force may have
'a separate existence,' but as yet we are unable to tell whether these lines 'are analogous
to those of gravitation, acting at a distance; or whether, having a physical existence, they
are more like in their nature to those of electric induction or the electric current.' Mr Faraday
inclines at present to the latter view. He 'affirms' the lines of magnetic force from actual
experiment, and 'advocates' their physical nature 'chiefly with a view of stating the question
of their existence; and though,' he adds, 'I should not have raised the argument unless I had
thought it both important and likely to be answered ultimately in the affirmative, I still
hold the opinion with some hesitation, with as much, indeed, as accompanies any conclusion
I endeavour to draw respecting points in the very depths of science--as, for instance, one,
two, or no electric fluids; or the real nature of a ray of light; or the nature of attraction,
even that of gravity itself; or the general nature of matter.' These are profound views; but
we may reasonably conclude, that, however obscure they may at present appear, they will in
time be cleared up and further developed by the gifted philosopher from whom they emanate.

Of minor matters which have been more or less talked about, there is the Library for the Working-Classes,
just opened in the parish of St Martin-in-the-Fields--a praiseworthy example for other parishes,
but not to be followed unless the readers actually exist, and manifest the sort of want which
books alone can satisfy. A suggestion has been made, to use for books in hot climates, where
paper is liable to rapid decay, the sheet-iron exhibited at Breslau, which is as thin and pliant
as paper, and can be produced at the rate of more than 7000 feet to the hundredweight. This
would be something new in the application of metal. Metallurgy generally is being further investigated
by Leonhard of Heidelberg, who has just called on manufacturers to aid him in his researches,
by sending him specimens of scoriæ, particularly of those which are crystallised. Then there
is Mr Hesketh's communication to the Institute of British Architects, 'On the Admission of
Daylight into Buildings, particularly in the Narrow and Confined Localities of Towns;' in which,
after shewing that the proportion of light admitted to buildings is generally inadequate to
their cubical contents, and means for estimating the numerical value of that which really does
enter, he states that the defect may be remedied by the use of reflectors, contrived so as
to be 'neither obstructive nor unsightly.' He explains, that 'a single reflector may generally
be placed on either the outside or inside of a window or skylight, so as to throw the light
from the (perhaps small) portion of sky which remains unobscured overhead, to any part in which
more light is required.' Such difficulties of position or construction as present themselves,
'may be overcome in almost every case, by, as it were, cutting up the single reflector into
strips, and arranging them one above the other, either in the reveal of the window, or in some
other part where it will not interfere with ventilation, or the action of the sashes.' This
is adopting the principle on which improved lighthouse reflectors are constructed; and we are
told, that 'the combinations may be arranged horizontally, vertically, or obliquely, according
to the positions of the centre of the unobscured portion of sky, and of the part into which
the light is to be thrown, and according to the shape of the opening in which the combination
is to be placed.' As a case in point, it was mentioned that a reflector 'had been fitted to
a vault (at the Depôt Wharf, in the Borough) ninety-six feet in depth from front to back. The
area into which the window opens is a semicircle, with a heavy iron-grating over it; and the
result is, that small print can be easily read at the far end of the vault.' It is a fact worth
knowing, that reflectors may be so constructed as to throw all the available daylight into
any required direction; and in one instance the reflector may be made to serve at the same
time as a dwarf venetian window-blind. Instead of wooden splats or laths, flat glass tubes
or prisms are used, fitted into the usual framework, and these being silvered on the inside,
throw all the light that falls on them into the room, when placed at the proper angle.

Again, the possibility of locomotion without the aid of steam is talked about, and the New
Yorkers are said to be about to send over a large ship driven by Ericsson's caloric engine,
which is to prove as powerful as vapour at one-half of the cost--a fact of which we shall be
better able to judge when the vessel really arrives. Then, looking across the Channel, we find
the Abbé Moigno proposing to construct and establish a relief model of Europe in the Bois de
Boulogne at Paris, of a size to cover several acres, and with the railways of iron, and the
rivers of water, by which means one of the most interesting and instructive of sights would
be produced, and the attractions of the Trench capital greatly increased. A desirable project--but
the cost! The Montyon prize of 2000 francs has been awarded to M. Mosson, for his method of
drying and preserving vegetables for long sea voyages, as published a few months ago. M. Naudin
states, that a certain kind of furze or thistle, of which cattle are very fond, may be made
to grow without thorns--an important consideration, seeing that at present, before it can be
used as food, it has to undergo a laborious beating, to crush and break the prickles with which
it is covered. As the plant thrives best on poor soils, which might otherwise lie useless,
the saving of this labour will be a great benefit to the French peasantry; and the more so,
as it appears the plant will grow in its new state from seed. M. Naudin believes, that the
condition of other vegetable productions may be varied at pleasure, and promises to lay his
views shortly before the Académie. M. Lecoq, director of the Botanical Garden at Claremont,
informs the same body of something still more extraordinary, in a communication, entitled 'Two
Hundred, Five Hundred, or even a Thousand new Vegetables, created ad libitum.' Having been
struck by the fact, that the ass so often feeds upon the thistle, he took some specimens of
that plant, and, by careful experiment, has succeeded in producing for the table 'a savoury
vegetable, with thorns of the most inoffensive and flexible sort.' Whatever be the kind of
thistle, however hard and sharp its thorns, he has tamed and softened them all, his method
of transformation being, as he says, none other than exposing the plants to different influences
of light. Those which grew unsheltered, he places in the dark, and vice versâ. Familiar examples
are given in the celery, of which the acrid qualities are removed by keeping off the light;
while the pungency of cress, parsley, &c., is increased by exposure to the sun. M. Lecoq has
not yet detailed all his experiments; but he asserts that, before long, some of our commonest
weeds, owing to his modifications, will become as highly esteemed as peas or asparagus. Let
him shew that his process is one that admits of being applied cheaply and on a large scale,
and he will not fail of his reward.

A QUALIFIED INSTRUCTOR.

