In this respect the Rose-Croix amongst all the upper degrees introduced to France in the middle
of the eighteenth century stands alone, and it alone can with any probability be attributed
to Scottish Jacobite inspiration. It was not, in fact, until three or four years after Lord
Derwentwater or his mysterious successor Lord Harnouester[383] had resigned the Grand Mastership
in favour of the Duc d'Antin in 1738 that the additional degrees were first heard of, and it
was not until eight years after the Stuart cause had received its death-blow at Culloden, that
is to say, in 1754, that the Rite of Perfection in which the so-called Scots Degrees were incorporated
was drawn up in the following form:

    Rite of Perfection

     1. Entered Apprentice.
     2. Fellow Craft.
     3. Master Mason. Intendant of the Buildings.
     8. Provost and Judge.
     9. Elect of Nine.
    10. Elect of Fifteen.
    11. Chief of the Twelve Tribes.
    12. Grand Master Architect.
    13. Knight of the Ninth Arch.
    14. Ancient Grand Elect.
    15. Knight of the Sword. Rose-Croix Knight.
    19. Grand Pontiff.
    20. Grand Patriarch.
    21. Grand Master of the Key of Masonry.
    22. Prince of Libanus or Knight of the Royal Axe.
    23. Sovereign Prince Adept.
    24. Commander of the Black and White Eagle.
    25. Commander of the Royal Secret.[384]

We have only to glance at the nomenclature of the last twenty-two of these degrees to see that
on the basis of mere operative Masonry there has been built up a system composed of two elements:
crusading chivalry and Judaic tradition. What else is this but Templarism? Even Mr. Gould,
usually so reticent on Templar influence, admits it at this period:

     In France ... some of the Scots lodges would appear to have very
     early manufactured new degrees, connecting these very distinguished
     Scots Masons with the Knights Templar, and thus given rise to the
     subsequent flood of Templarism. The earliest of all are supposed to
     have been the Masons of Lyons who invented the Kadosch degree,
     representing the vengeance of the Templars, in 1741. From that time
     new rites multiplied in France and Germany, but all those of French
     origin contain Knightly, and almost all, Templar grades. In every
     case the connecting link was composed of one or more Scots
     degrees.[385]

The name Kadosch here mentioned is a Hebrew word signifying "holy" or "consecrated," which
in the Cabala is found in conjunction with the Tetragrammaton.[386] The degree is said to have
developed from that of Grand Elect,[387] one of the three "degrees of vengeance" celebrating
with sanguinary realism the avenging of the murder of Hiram. But in its final form of Knight
Kadosch--later to become the thirtieth degree of the "Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite"--the
Hiramic legend was changed into the history of the Templars with Jacques du Molay as the victim.[388]
So the reprobation of attack on authority personified by the master-builder becomes approbation
of attack on authority in the person of the King of France.

The introduction of the upper degrees with their political and, later on, anti-Christian tendencies
thus marked a complete departure from the fundamental principle of Freemasonry that "nothing
concerning the religion or government shall ever be spoken of in the lodge." For this reason
they have been assailed not only by anti-masonic writers but by Freemasons themselves.[389]
To represent Barruel and Robison as the enemies of Freemasonry is therefore absolutely false;
neither of these men denounced Craft Masonry as practised in England, but only the superstructure
erected on the Continent. Barruel indeed incurs the reproaches of Mounier for his championship
of English Freemasons:

He vaunts their respect for religious opinion and for authority. When he speaks of Freemasons
in general they are impious, rebellious successors of the Templars and Albigenses, but all
those of England are innocent. More than this, all the Entered Apprentices, Fellow Crafts,
and Master Masons in all parts of the world are innocent; there are only guilty ones in the
higher degrees, which are not essential to the institution and are sought by a small number
of people.[390]

In this opinion of Barruel's a great number of Masonic writers concur--Clavel, Ragon, Rebold,
Thory, Findel, and others too numerous to mention; all indicate Craft Masonry as the only true
kind and the upper degrees as constituting a danger to the Order. Rebold, who gives a list
of these writers, quotes a masonic publication, authorized by the Grand Orient and the Supreme
Council of France, in which it is said that "from all these rites there result the most foolish
conceptions, ... the most absurd legends, ... the most extravagant systems, the most immoral
principles, and those the most dangerous for the peace and preservation of States," and that
therefore except the first three degrees of Masonry, which are really ancient and universal,
everything is "chimera, extravagance, futility, and lies."[391] Did Barruel and Robison ever
use stronger language than this?

To attribute the perversion of Masonry to Jacobite influence would be absurd. How could it
be supposed that either Ramsay or Lord Derwentwater (who died as a devout Catholic on the scaffold
in 1746) could have been concerned in an attempt to undermine the Catholic faith or the monarchy
of France? I would suggest, then, that the term "Scots Masonry" became simply a veil for Templarism--Templarism,
moreover, of a very different kind to that from which the original degree of the Rose-Croix
was derived. It was this so-called Scots Masonry that, after the resignation of Lord Derwentwater,
"boldly came forward and claimed to be not merely a part of Masonry but the real Masonry, possessed
of superior knowledge and entitled to greater privileges and the right to rule over the ordinary,
i.e. Craft Masonry."[392] The Grand Lodge of France seems, however, to have realized the danger
of submitting to the domination of the Templar element, and on the death of the Duc d'Antin
and his replacement by the Comte de Clermont in 1743, signified its adherence to English Craft
Masonry by proclaiming itself Grande Loge Anglaise de France and reissued the "Constitutions"
of Anderson, first published in 1723, with the injunction that the Scots Masters should be
placed on the same level as the simple Apprentices and Fellow Crafts and allowed to wear no
badges of distinction.[393]

Grand Lodge of England appears to have been reassured by this proclamation as to the character
of French Freemasonry, for now, in 1743, it at last delivered a warrant to Grand Lodge of France.
Yet in reality it was from this moment that French Freemasonry degenerated the most rapidly.
The Order was soon invaded by intriguers. This was rendered all the easier by the apathy of
the Comte de Clermont, appointed Grand Master in 1743, who seems to have taken little interest
in the Order and employed a substitute in the person of a dancing master named Lacorne, a man
of low character through whose influence the lodges fell into a state of anarchy. Freemasonry
was thus divided into warring factions: Lacorne and the crowd of low-class supporters who had
followed him into the lodges founded a Grand Lodge of their own (Grande Loge Lacorne), and
in 1756 the original Freemasons again attempted to make Craft Masonry the national Masonry
of France by deleting the word "Anglaise" from the appellation of Grand Lodge, and renaming
it "Grand Loge Nationale de France." But many lodges still continue to work the additional degrees.

