    2. Printed for John Barber, alderman of LONDON,
    1726. Small 8º. 2 vols."

    3. "Original poems and translations, by John Dryden, Esq. LONDON:
    printed for J. and R. Tonson, 1743. 12º. 2 vols."

In the two former publications, the poem appears as the entire composition of the noble author,
and is said to have been "written in the year 1675." In the latter publication it appears without
date, and is said to be "by Mr. Dryden and the earl of Mulgrave."

The publications were posthumous, and as the editors afford no explanation of the point in
dispute, we must consult the reputed authors.

In the year 1691, as an advertisement to King Arthur, a dramatic opera, Dryden printed a catalogue
of his "plays and poems in quarto," in order to prevent future mis-ascriptions. The catalogue
comprises ten poems, but no Essay on satire. The publisher of King Arthur was Mr. Jacob Tonson.

In 1682, the earl of Mulgrave published, anonymously, through the agency of Mr. Joseph Hindmarsh,
an Essay upon poetry. It contains these lines:--

 "The laureat here may justly claim our praise,
  Crown'd by Mac-Fleckno with immortal bays;
  Though prais'd and punish'd for another's rimes,
  His own deserve that glorious fate sometimes,
  Were he not forc'd to carry now dead weight,
  Rid by some lumpish minister of state."

In 1717, Mr. Tonson published Poems by the earl of Roscommon; and added thereto the Essay on
poetry, "with the leave and with the corrections of the author." The lines shall now be given
in their amended state, as they appear in that volume, with the accompanying notes:--

 "The Laureat[2] here may justly claim our praise,
  Crown'd by Mack-Fleckno[3] with immortal bays;
  Tho' prais'd and punish'd once for other's[4] rhimes,
  His own deserve as great applause sometimes;
  Yet Pegasus[5], of late, has born dead weight,
  Rid by some lumpish ministers of state."

Next to Dryden and the earl of Mulgrave, as authorities on this question, comes the elder Jacob
Tonson. Both writers were contributors to his Poetical miscellanies. In 1701 he published Poems
on various occasions, etc. By Mr. John Dryden. The volume has not the Essay on satire. The
same {163} Tonson, as we have just seen, gave currency to the assertion that Dryden was "ignorant
of the whole matter."

To this display of contemporary evidence must be added the information derivable from the posthumous
publications enumerated in the former part of this article. The publication of 1723 was made
by direction of the duchess of Buckingham. The couplet, "Tho' prais'd," &c., and the appended
note, were omitted. In 1726 Mr. alderman Barber republished the volumes "with several additions,
and without any castrations," restoring the couplet and note as they were printed in 1717.
In the Original poems of Dryden, as collectively published in 1743, the joint authorship is
stated without a word of evidence in support of it.

If we turn to the earlier writers on Dryden, we meet with no facts in favour of his claim to
the poem in question. Anthony à Wood says, "the earl of Mulgrave was generally thought to be
the author." This was written about 1694. The reverend Thomas Birch, a man of vast information,
repeated this statement in 1736. Neither Congreve nor Giles Jacob allude to the poem.

The witnesses on the other side are, 1. The publisher of the State poems. 2. Dean Lockier.
And 3. The reverend Thomas Broughton.

The State poems, in which the essay is ascribed to Dryden, may be called a surreptitious publication:
it carries no authority. The testimony of Lockier, which is to the same effect, was never published
by himself. It was a scrap of conversation held thirty years after the death of Dryden, and
reported by another from memory. The reverend Thomas Broughton, who asserts the joint authorship
of the poems, cites as his authority the Original poems, &c. Now Kippis assures us that he
edited those volumes. On the question at issue, he could discover no authority but himself!

Dryden may have revised the Essay on satire. Is that a sufficient reason for incorporating
it with his works? Do we tack to the works of Pope the poems of Wycherly and Parnell? We have
authority for stating that Pope revised the Essay on poetry. Is it to be added to the works
of Pope? Be it as it may, the poem was published, in substance, six years before Pope was born!

As the evidence is very brief, there can be no necessity for recapitulation; and I shall only
add, that if about to edit the poetical works of Dryden, I should reject the Essay on satire.

BOLTON CORNEY.

[Footnote 2: Mr. Dryden.]

[Footnote 3: A famous satyrical poem of his.]

[Footnote 4: A copy of verses called, An essay on satyr, for which Mr Dryden was both applauded
and beaten, tho' not only innocent but ignorant, of the whole matter.]

[Footnote 5: A poem call'd, The hind and panther.]

       *       *       *       *       *

MACKLIN'S ORDINARY AND SCHOOL OF CRITICISM.

Mr. George Wingrove Cooke, in his valuable work, The History of Party (vol. iii, p. 66.), gives
an admirable sketch of the life of Edmund Burke. Speaking of his early career, and of the various
designs which he formed for his future course, we are told that "at Macklin's Debating Society
he made the first essay of his powers of oratory."

Mr. Cunningham, in his Handbook for London, speaks of Macklin delivering Lectures on Elocution
at Pewterer's Hall (p. 394.), and of his residence in Tavistock Row, Covent Garden (p. 484.);
but he does not mention Macklin's Debating Society. I imagine that by this "Debating Society"
is meant an Ordinary and School of Criticism, which that eminent actor established in the year
1754, in the Piazza, Covent Garden. Mr. W. Cooke, in his Life of Macklin, 1806, p. 199., says--

    "What induced him [Macklin] to quit the stage in the full vigour of
    fame and constitution, was one of those schemes which he had long
    previously indulged himself in, of suddenly making his fortune by the
    establishment of a tavern and coffee-house in the Piazza, Covent
    Garden; to which he afterwards added a school of oratory, upon a plan
    hitherto unknown in England, founded upon the Greek, Roman, French, and
    Italian Societies, under the title of The British Inquisition."

The first part of this plan (the public ordinary) was opened on the 11th of March, 1754; and
an amusing account of its operations may be found in Angelo's Pic Nic, p. 32. The second part
of "Macklin's mad plan," as it was then termed, "The British Inquisition," commenced proceedings
on the 21st of November in the same year; and here, according to the first advertisement, "such
subjects in Arts, Sciences, Literature, Criticism, Philosophy, History, Politics, and Morality,
as shall be found useful and entertaining to society, will be lectured upon and freely debated."

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

       *       *       *       *       *

"LOVE'S LABOUR'S LOST (Act II. Scene 1.).

    "It is odd that Shakspeare should make Dumain inquire after Rosaline,
    who was the mistress of Biron, and neglect Katharine, who was his own.
    Biron behaves in the same manner.--Perhaps all the ladies wore
    masks.--STEEVENS.

    "They certainly did."--MALONE.

    "And what if they did?"--QUERY.

In what possible way can the circumstance of the ladies wearing masks lessen the inconsistency
pointed out by Steevens?

Rosaline has been immediately singled out by her former admirer--

    "Did I not dance with you in Brabant once?"

--a circumstance quite inconsistent with uncertain identity afterwards.

But if the gentlemen really did mistake the identity of their ladies, Boyet's answers must
have misled them into a similar mistake in their names: so that the natural consequence would
have been, that each lover would afterwards address his {164} poetical effusion nominally to
the wrong lady! which does not appear to have been the case.

Therefore, even if the masking be admitted, it can in no way lessen the inconsistency of the
cross questions, which to me appears to have arisen from a most palpable instance of clerical
or typographical transposition.

Steevens was on the right scent, although he rejected it in the same breath, when he said,--

    "No advantage would be gained by an exchange of names, because the
    last speech is determined to Biron by Maria, who gives a character of
    him after he has made his exit."

This is a good reason against a transposition in the male names, but it is none whatever against
the same occurrence in the ladies' names; and consequently it is there that the true solution
of the difficulty must be sought.

If we admit that a substitution may have occurred, of "Rosaline" for "Katharine," in Boyet's
answer to Dumain, and vice versâ in his answer to Biron, all difficulty disappears at once.

The completeness with which the idea of transposition not only accounts for the existence of
the error, but at the same time suggests the manner in which it may be corrected, ought of
itself to secure its reception, even if it were not corroborated in a very singular way by
the following collateral circumstance.

It may be observed that Boyet points out two of the ladies, not only by name, but also by styling
them "heirs;" one of Falconbridge, the other of Alençon. Now in their previous descriptions
of their respective lovers, one of the ladies (Maria) says she had met Longaville at a marriage
of a "Falconbridge;" another lady (Katharine) says she had met Dumain at "Duke Alençon's."
When, therefore, we find that Boyet, in reply to Longaville's question, designates Maria as
"heir of Falconbridge," it is in direct analogy that he should, in answer to Dumain's question,
designate Katharine as "heir of Alençon;" but, in consequence of the transposition of names,
Boyet appears, as the text now stands, to confer that designation, not upon Katharine, but
upon Rosaline, whom Biron had met at Brabant!

There can be no doubt, therefore, that the names of Katharine and Rosaline have been transposed
contrary to the author's intention, and the only wonder is--not that such a very commonplace
error should have been committed--but that it should have been suffered to remain through so
many editions up to the present time.

A. G. B.

  Leeds, Feb. 10. 1851.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES ON NEWSPAPERS.

I send you the following, as a help to "Materials for a satisfactory History of Newspapers,"
alluded to in the last volume of "NOTES AND QUERIES," p. 375.

I have in my possession some old newspapers, ranging from 1691 to 1694, entitled A Collection
for Improvement of Husbandry and Trade, edited by John Houghton, F.R.S., St. Bartholomew Lane,
behind the Royal Exchange, London. The size is a small folio, published weekly, generally every
Friday. It was carried on for some time merely as a single leaf, with no advertisements. In
this form, the editor says--

    "These papers are 2d. each here, and anybody may have them by the post.
    But where that is thought too much, it may be eased by ten or twelve
    obliging themselves constantly to take them from a bookseller,
    coffee-man, or some other, who may afford to pay a carrier, and sell
    them there for 2d., or at most 3d.; or carriers themselves may gain
    well, if they'll serve the country gentlemen. And any such bookseller,
    coffee-man, or carrier, that will apply themselves to me, shall have
    good encouragement, with liberty to return those that won't sell."

Ultimately the editor determined on admitting advertisements. He then doubled the size of his
paper, making it two leaves instead of one. In reference to this increased size he says,--

    "My collection I shall carry on as usual. This part is to give away;
    and those who like it not, may omit the reading. I believe it will help
    on trade, particularly encourage the advertisers to increase the vent
    of my papers. I shall receive all sorts of advertisements, but shall
    answer for the reasonableness of none; unless I give thereof a
    particular character, on which (as I shall give it) may be dependence,
    but no argument that others deserve not as well."

    "I am inform'd that great numbers of gazettes are each time printed,
    which makes them the most universal intelligencers; but I'll suppose
    mine their first handmaid, because it goes (tho' not so thick, yet) to
    most parts. It's also lasting, to be put into volumes with indexes; and
    particularly there shall be an index of all the advertisements,
    whereby, for ages to come, they may be useful. I have publish'd on the
    subject of Husbandry and Trade, two quarto volumes, three folio
    volumes, with the great sheet of taxes, acres, houses, &c.; and am
    weekly carrying on this paper, which may be brought to anybodies house
    within the Bills of Mortality, or penny post, for one penny the week;
    and anywhere else in England (where enough will encourage a bookseller
    or carrier). The volumes may be had from most booksellers of England,
    Scotland, or Ireland."

The Collection, which the editor will carry on as usual, refers to the single sheet. The Gazette
must have been the London Gazette. In what sort of way the editor could suppose that advertisements
could be useful for ages to come, we, in this age of enlightenment and knowledge, are at a
loss to conceive. The great sheet of taxes, acres, houses, &c., I have, and may give you an
account of its contents at some future time. The first page {165} of the paper was always devoted
to a letter from the editor's own pen on husbandry, trade, chemistry, domestic cookery, and
a variety of other topics. The editor appears to have been a spirited man, who collected with
great care and diligence a great variety of facts whereby to interest his readers. The advertisements
are very curious, specimens of which I will give you in another communication. Each paper contains
the weekly prices of wheat, rye, barley, malt, oats, horse beans, peas, coals, hops, hay, tallow,
and wool, in all the counties of England and Wales; the prices of provisions in London; also
a weekly statement of wind and weather; the number of deaths, and their causes; the number
of christenings and burials, specifying how many of each sex. The editor often concludes a
column of information by stating, "this is all I see useful to posterity." He not only appears
to have been a man of an active mind, but also a very kind man; for he says to those who advertise
in his paper for situations, &c., that "if they apply themselves to me, I'll strive to help
them." He appears also to have kept a shop, or at least to have traded in certain articles:
for in one of his papers is this advertisement:--

    "In my first volume of 1682, I publish'd my own selling of chocolate,
    and have sold in small quantities ever since: I have now two sorts,
    both made of the best nuts, without spice or perfume; the one 5s., and
    the other 6s. the pound; and I'll answer for their goodness. If I shall
    think fit to sell any other sorts, I'll give notice.

    JOHN HOUGHTON."

By this advertisement we get at the date when the paper was first published.

H. M. BEALBY.

  North Brixton.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. GOUGH'S TRANSLATION OF THE HISTORY OF THE BIBLE.

The original work is thus described by Brunet, in his Manuel, Paris, 1842, vol. ii. p. 583.:

