The following curious observations on the habits of plants, were made by General Walker, in
his address to the Agricultural Society of St. Helena, in February last:--"The functions of
plants, as well as of animals, depend upon the air in which they live. I have observed that
those of St. Helena, which have been brought from another hemisphere, are very irregular in
their annual progress; many of them, in the development of their foliage, have adopted the
law of nature peculiar to the country into which they have been transplanted. Others, more
obstinate, remain faithful to their own habits, and continue to follow the stated changes to
which they had been accustomed. They all appear to maintain a struggle either before they adopt
the habits which belong to the seasons of their new country, or decide on retaining their relations
with the old. In yielding to external circumstances, they appear to have different tempers.
This appearance of contention is often observed in plants of the same species; they seem to
hesitate and deliberate, ere they adopt the mode of performing the functions of life. At length
when the decision is made, apparently not without pain and effort, we are at a loss to discover
an adequate cause. An oak, for instance, which loses its leaves in a St. Helena winter of 68
degrees, scarcely experiences the difference of temperature, which, reasoning by analogy, could
cause that change. It would have continued to maintain inflexibility, in its original climate,
its old habits, though exposed to far greater irregularity and severity of climate. But though
the law is obeyed by many plants, it does not determine the periodical changes of the whole,
nor do they all submit to it with equal readiness and regularity. It would add, I conceive,
to the natural history of vegetation, and improve our knowledge of the geography of plants,
were the facts concerning their habits and changes, under different temperatures, carefully
collected."

       *       *       *       *       *

MISCELLANIES.

       *       *       *       *       *

HUMAN CREDULITY.

The wonderful miracles wrought by Bridget Bostock, of Cheshire, who healed all diseases by
prayer, faith, and an embrocation of fasting spittle, induced multitudes to resort to her from
all parts of the country, and kept her salival glands in full employ. Sir John Pryce, with
a high spirit of enthusiasm, wrote to this woman to make him a visit at Newton Hall, in order
to restore to him his third, a favourite, wife. His letter will best tell the foundation on
which he built his strange hope, and every uncommon request.

    To Mrs. Bridget Bostock.

    Madam,--Having received information, by repeated advices, both
    public and private, that you have of late performed many
    wonderful cures, even where the best physicians have failed;
    and that the means used appear to be very inadequate to the
    effect produced; I cannot but look upon you as an extraordinary
    and highly favoured person. And why may not the same most
    merciful God, who enables you to restore sight to the blind,
    hearing to the deaf, and strength to the same, also enable you
    to raise the dead to life? Now, having lately lost a wife, whom
    I most tenderly loved, my children a most excellent
    step-mother, and our acquaintances a most dear and valuable
    friend, you will lay us all under the highest obligations; and
    I earnestly entreat you, for God Almighty's sake, that you will
    put up your petitions to the Throne of Grace on our behalf,
    that the deceased may be restored to us, and the late dame
    Eleanor Pryce be raised from the dead. If your personal
    attendance appears to you to be necessary, I will send my coach
    and six, with proper servants to wait on you hither, whenever
    you please to appoint. Recompense of any kind that you may
    please to propose would be made with the utmost gratitude; but
    I wish the bare mention of it is not offensive to both God
    and you.

    I am, madam,

    Your most obedient, and very much afflicted, humble servant,

    JOHN PRYCE.

THEOLOGICAL WIT.

The late Rev. Thomas Toller, an eminent dissenting minister, (joint preacher with the celebrated
Dr. James Fordyce, at Monkwell-street,) resided many years in the Lower-street, Islington.
One day, when he got into the stage to come to London, he met with two ladies of his acquaintance,
and a loquacious young Irishman, who was very obtrusive with his "would-be wit" to the females.
The coachman soon stopped to take up another passenger, who, Dutchman-like, was "slow to make
haste." A young dog, being confined in the neighbourhood, bewailed its loss of liberty, by
making an hideous noise; which all the party agreed was very disagreeable. The Hibernian, desirous
to display his wit, and to quiz the parson, said, "The animal was so unpleasantly noisy, it
must be a presbyterian dog." Mr. Toller calmly, but with much apparent confidence, said, "I
am sure it is an Irish dog."--"How do you know that?" exclaimed the astonished young man with
eagerness.--"I know it, sir," (replied the divine,) "by its impudence and its howl." This seasonable
retort cured the garrulity of the patient, and gave him a locked-jaw till the stage arrived
at the Royal Exchange.

RAMSDEN THE OPTICIAN.

It was his custom, to retire in the evening to what he considered the most comfortable corner
in the house, and take his seat close, to the kitchen fireside, in order to draw some plan
for the forming a new instrument, or scheme for the improvement of one already made. There,
with his drawing implements on the table before him, a cat sitting on the one side, and a certain
portion of bread, butter, and a small mug of porter placed on the other side, while four or
five apprentices commonly made up the circle, he amused himself with either whistling the favourite
air, or sometimes singing the old ballad of

        "If she is not so true to me,
        What care I to whom she be?
    What care I, what care I, to whom she be!"

and appeared, in this domestic group, contentedly happy. When he occasionally sent for a workman,
to give him necessary directions concerning what he wished to have done, he first showed the
recent finished plan, then explained the different parts of it, and generally concluded by
saying, with the greatest good humour, "Now see, man, let us try to find fault with it;" and
thus, by putting two heads together, to scrutinize his own performance, some alteration was
probably made for the better. But, whatever expense an instrument had cost in forming, if it
did not fully answer the intended design, he would immediately say, after a little examination
of the work, "Bobs, man! this won't do, we must have at it again;" and then the whole of that
was put aside, and a new instrument, begun. By means of such perseverance, he succeeded in
bringing various mathematical, philosophical, and astronomical instruments to perfection. The
large theodolite for terrestrial measurements, and the equal altitude instrument for astronomy,
will always be monuments of his fertile, penetrating, arduous, superior genius! There cannot
be a lover (especially of this more difficult part) of philosophy, in any quarter of the globe,
but must admire the abilities, and respect the memory, of Jesse Ramsden--Practical Observations
on Telescopes.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

"I am but a Gatherer and disposer of other men's stuff."--Wotton.

       *       *       *       *       *

