The inarticulate language of our Darwinian relatives has one considerable advantage over the
articulate speech of a trained parrot: it has a definite meaning. Mumbling with protruded lips
is an appeal for pity and affection; a coughing grunt denotes indignation; surprise is expressed
by a very peculiar, sotto voce guttural; crescendo the same sound is a danger-signal which
the little Capuchin-monkey of the American tropics understands as well as the African chimpanzee.
My Chacma baboon defies an adversary by contracting her eyebrows and slapping the floor with
her hands. The vocabulary of a talking bird is no doubt more extensive, but it is used entirely
at random. A first-class parrot can repeat seventy different phrases; but an English philosopher
offered a hundred pounds sterling to any "mind-reader" who should succeed in guessing the seven
figures in the number of a hundred-pound bank-note, and It would be as safe to offer the same
sum to any bird that could furnish evidence of attaching a definite meaning to any seven of
his seventy sentences. On close investigation, the stories of conversational parrots prove
as apocryphal as Katy-King legends and planchette miracles.

Causality--i.e., the gift of tracing a recondite connection of cause and effect--is another
faculty which many varieties of monkeys possess in a decidedly ultra-instinctive degree. I
remember the surprise of a picnic-party who had borrowed my young Rhesus and on their return
tied him up on the porch of a garden-house. During the trip the little scamp had behaved with
the decorum of a well-bred youth, but, finding himself unobserved, he at once made a vicious
attempt to tear his rope with his teeth. Whenever his boon companions approached the porch
he would resume his attitude of innocence, but as soon as they turned away, which they often
did on purpose to try him, he promptly recommenced his work of destruction. Their giggling,
however, excited his suspicions, and, seeing them peep around the corner, he suddenly became
a model of virtuous inactivity. One of the picnickers then entered the garden-house by a rear
door, to watch the little hypocrite through a crack in the board wall, while his companions
ostensibly walked away and out of sight. As soon as everything was quiet. Master Rhesus went
to work again, but at the same time kept his eye on the corner till he was interrupted by a
tap on the wall and a mysterious voice from within, "Stop that, Tommy!" Tommy started, peeped
around the corner, and looked puzzled. He was sure there was nobody in sight. How could an
invisible spy have witnessed his transgression? He then scrutinized the wall more closely,
discovered the crack, and dropped the rope with a curious grin, as he squinted through the
tell-tale aperture. He had traced the effect to its cause.

Unlike dogs, raccoons, or squirrels, chained monkeys rarely entangle themselves: they at once
notice the shortening of their tether, and never rest till they have discovered the clue of
the phenomenon. A dog in the same predicament has to content himself with tugging at his chain
or gnawing his rope; and the reason is that the wisdom of the wisest dog is limited to business
qualifications. He is a hunter, and nature has endowed him with the requisite faculties, just
as she has endowed the constructive spider and the bee. Bees and dogs share the faculty of
direction, enabling them to find their way home, a talent implying a very miracle of infallible
and yet unconscious intuition, and in the strictest sense a one-sided business qualification.
The goose, the sturgeon, and the almost brainless tortoise possess the same gift in a transcendent
degree; the oriole builds her first nest as skilfully as the last; the young bee constructs
her hexagons with an ease and a uniform success that leave no possible doubt that the exercise
of her talent is generically different from a function of reason. Instincts may be far-reaching
enough to defy the rivalry of human science, but they resemble loophole-guns, that can be fired
only in a single direction. The intuition that guides the turkey-hen to her nest does not enable
her to find her way out of a half-open log trap. The instinct by which a dog retraces his trail
across broad rivers and through woods does not enable him to retrace the coils of a tangled
rope. A monkey's talents, like our own, are less infallible, but more versatile, and at the
possessor's discretion can be applied and perverted to all possible purposes. Hence also that
peculiar interest which the pranks of our mischievous relatives excite even in spectators not
apt to appreciate the comic features of the spectacle. In the monkey-house of the Philadelphia
Zoo I have seen saturnine burghers stand motionless for hours together, and contemplative children
rapt in reveries that had little to do with the hope of witnessing a beast-fight. They seemed
to feel the spell of a secret veiled in grotesque symbols, but disclosing occasional revelations
of its significance, like glimpses into the fore-world of the human race.

In the fairy-tales of the old Hindoo scriptures monkeys figure as counsellors of nonplussed
heroes, and in the crisis of the Titan war the Devas themselves condescend to seek the advice
of the monkey Honuman, who contrives to outwit the prince of the night-spirits. In the international
fable of "Reynard the Fox," a she-monkey on the eve of the trial by battle suggests the stratagem
that turns the scales against the superior strength of the wolf Isegrim. The mens æqua in arduis
is, indeed, a simian characteristic. Monkeys never have their wits more completely about them
than in the moment of a sudden danger, and a higher development of the same faculty distinguishes
the Caucasian from all rival races, even from the sharp-witted Semites. After the conquest
of Algiers the French tried to conciliate the native element by educating a number of young
Arabs and giving them a chance to compete with the cadets of St.-Cyr. They made excellent routine-officers,
but even their patron, General Clausel, admitted that they "could not be trusted in a panic."

Dr. Langenbeck mentions a family of Silesian peasants who seemed to have an hereditary predisposition
to the abnormity known as microcephalism, or small-headedness. They were not absolute idiots,
but remarkably slow-spoken and all extremely averse to active occupations. An active disposition
is generally a pretty safe gauge of mental capacity. Intellectual vigor leads to action. To
a person of mental resources inactivity is more irksome than the hardest work, and sluggishness
is justly used as a synonyme of imbecility. Exertion under the pressure of want is, however,
not incompatible with an inert disposition, and spontaneous activity, the love of busy-ness
for its own sake, can be ascribed only to men and monkeys; monkeys, at least, are the only
animals in whom repletion and old age cannot dampen that passion. After a full meal an elephant
will stand for hours in a sort of piggish torpor; a gorged bird seeks the tree-shade; an overfed
dog and nearly every old dog becomes a picture of laziness. Monkeys rest only during sleep.
Old age does not affect their nimbleness; they can be fattened, for I have seen baboons as
sleek as seals, but, like Gibbon, Henry Buckle, and Marshal Vendôme, they prove that the energy
of a strong will can bear up under such burdens. Madame de Staël, too, managed to combine a
progressive embonpoint with the undiminished brilliancy of her genius, though it is certain
that adipose tissue does not feed the flame of every mind. Charles Dickens in his "American
Notes" expresses the opinion that no vigor of mental constitution could be proof against the
influence of solitary confinement; but the narrow monkey-cages of our zoological prisons show
that the minds of the little captives can stand the test of even that ordeal. They play with
their shadows, if the nakedness of their four walls does not afford any other pastime.

Docility, on the other hand, is a rather ambiguous test of intelligence. The willingness and
the ability to learn may supplement their mutual deficiencies, but differ as radically as patience
and genius. Dogs master the tasks of their education by their earnest endeavor to please their
master; Jacko excels them in spite of his waywardness. Some boys win college-prizes by memorizing
their lessons in conformity with the wishes of a dreaded or beloved preceptor, others by dint
of natural aptitude and a love of knowledge based on spontaneous inquisitiveness; and every
circus-trainer knows that teachers who understand to avail themselves of that gift can teach
a monkey tricks which can neither be coaxed nor kicked into the skull of the most docile dog.
Besides, the domestic dog is a considerably modified variety of the family to which he belongs,
and in order to appreciate the difference between the natural intelligence of the canines and
the quadrumana we should compare the docility of the monkey with that of the wolf or the jackal.
In the submissiveness of the dog the hereditary influence of several thousand generations has
developed a sort of artificial instinct that qualifies him for the exigencies of his servitude;
but submissiveness per se, however valuable for plastic purposes, is certainly not a characteristic
concomitant of superior intelligence. In the soul of the Hindoo, the Chinese, and the Eastern
Slav, the long-inculcated duty of subordination has become almost a second nature, while the
most intelligent tribes of the ancient Greeks were famous--or, from a Chinese point of view,
perhaps infamous--for a strong tendency in the opposite direction.

Patience is not a prominent gift of our four-handed relatives, but compensating nature has
endowed them with the genius of self-help and its adjuvant talents,--observation, causality,
imitativeness, covetousness, and self-asserting pluck. They also possess a fair share of such
faculties as inquisitiveness, vigilance, and perseverance, all rudiments, indeed, but the rudiments
of supremacy.

FELIX L. OSWALD.

       *       *       *       *       *

ELUSIVE

Just out of reach she lightly swings, My Psyche with the rainbowed wings, A floating flower,
by winds impelled, The honeyed spray has caught and held. Now circling low, with grace divine,
She sips the tulip's chaliced wine. Why should I seek to bring her nigh And find--a simple
butterfly?

O isles in ocean's azure set, Like sculptured dome and minaret Your purpled cliffs and headlands
rise Against the far-off, misty skies. Yet, thither borne by helpful breeze, As lifts the veil
from circling seas, Well know I your enchanted land Would prove but rugged rock and sand.

O friend whose words of wisdom rare Inspire my soul to do and dare, Across the distance wide
and drear I will not reach to bring you near. Why cast ideal grace away To find you only common
clay? The best of life and thought and speech Is that which lies--just out of reach.

SARAH D. HOBART.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PARISIAN COUTURIER.

The couturier--the bearded dressmaker, the masculine artist in silk and satin--is an essentially
modern and Parisian phenomenon. It is true that the elegant and capricious Madame de Pompadour
owed most of her toilets and elegant accoutrements to the genius of Supplis, the famous tailleur
pour dames or ladies' tailor, of the epoch. But Supplis was an exception, and he never assumed
the name of couturier, the masculine form of couturière, "dress-maker." That appellation was
reserved for the great artists of the Second Empire, Worth, Aurelly, Pingat, and their rivals,
who utterly revolutionized feminine costume and endeavored to direct it in the paths of art,
good taste, and comfort. Enthusiasts of grace and beauty, these artists set themselves the
task of preventing the inconstant goddess of fashion from continuing to wander off into ugliness,
deformity, and absurdity. In their devotion to art, beauty, and luxury, they determined never
to forget fitness and comfort, and since their initiative has regulated the vagaries of fashion
we must admit that our women have never been the victims of such inconvenient, ugly, and absurd
inventions as crinoline, leg-o'-mutton sleeves, the coiffure à la frégate, and the various
other monstrosities of the Republic, the Directory, and the Restoration, which, thanks to the
traditional supremacy of France in matters of fashion, made their way, more or less modified,
all over the world. The modern artists in dress consider justly that what is most important
in a dress is the woman who wears it, and that their object should be to set her off to the
best advantage, and not to make her remarked,--in short, to make a toilet which will be to
the wearer what the frame is to the portrait. The rôle which the couturier plays, not only
in Parisian life but in the life of the whole civilized world, is so important and so curious
that I have thought it might interest the reader to see the great artist at home, surrounded
by his customers and his assistants, and to catch a brief glimpse of the nature and peculiarities
of the creature. My description of the type will be in general, of course, but founded on exact
observation of individuals.

The high-priests of Parisian fashion have their shrines up-stairs. Where the highest perfection
is aimed at, shops are nowhere. The grand couturier makes no outside show. You will find him
occupying two or three floors in one of those plain, flat-fronted Restoration houses which
line the Rue de la Paix, the Rue Taitbout, the Rue Louis-le-Grand, or the Faubourg St.-Honoré.
Passing through a square porte-cochère as broad as it is high, you find on the right or left
hand a glass door opening on a staircase covered with a thick red carpet. On the landings are
divans, and sometimes a palm of a dracæna. Through an open door on the ground-floor you see
the packing-room, where marvels of silk and lace are being enveloped in mountains of tissue-paper
to be sent to the four quarters of the globe; on the first floor, or entresol, are workrooms
full of girls seated at long tables and sewing under the directing eye of a severe-looking
matron; on the second floor are generally situated the show- and reception-rooms. The first
saloon is sombre: the ceiling appears, in the daytime, blackened by gas; the walls are wainscoted
in imitation ebony with gold fillets, and large panels above the chair-rail are filled with
verdure tapestries of the most dismal green, chosen expressly to throw into relief the freshness
and gayety of the dresses; on the chimney-piece, and reflected in the glass, is a clock surmounted
by a monumental statue of Diana in nickeled imitation bronze and flanked by two immense candelabra;
along the walls are two or three large wardrobes with looking-glass doors; in the middle of
the room is a table for displaying materials, with a few chairs, and in one corner a desk,
where is seated M. Cyprien or M. Alexandre, the bookkeeper. In this room the customers are
received by a tall and very elegant young lady, invariably dressed in black satin in winter
and black silk in summer. Through this soft-spoken person, who bears the title of première
vendeuse, or first saleswoman, the customers are put into communication either with the great
artist himself or simply with one of the premières, or heads of departments, if their orders
are not of sufficient importance to justify an interruption of the great man in his innumerable
and absorbing occupations. Opening out of this first saloon are a number of smaller saloons,
all equally sombre, colorless, and shabby-looking, especially by daylight. There are extra
show-rooms and trying-on-rooms, besides which there is a special room for trying on riding-habits,
and another for the chief of the corsage department, to say nothing of little rooms draped
with blue, brown, or red for special purposes. Over these dingy carpets and among these old
tapestries and sombre furniture glide noiselessly from room to room young women on whose sloping
shoulders and lissome figures the "creations" of Messieurs les Couturiers show to the best
advantage. These are the demoiselles-mannequins, or essayeuses,--mute but breathing models,
who seem to have lost all human animation in their occupation of mere clothes-wearers, automata
with weary faces, whose sole business is to carry on their backs from morning until night luminous
vesture. The ordinary pay of the demoiselle-mannequin in the grand establishments is from sixty
to eighty dollars a month, with half board; but some of them who have exceptionally elegant
figures and perfect bearing are paid fancy prices, reaching as much in rare cases as two thousand
dollars a year.

Imagine the appearance of these saloons between two and five o'clock in the afternoon during
the season, filled as they are with chattering and finely-dressed ladies,--Parisiennes, Russians
with their lazy accent, English and Americans talking in their own tongue, princesses of the
Almanach de Gotha and princesses of the footlights, and even of the demi-monde, all united
in adoration of the idol of fashion. A confused murmur of musical voices rises in an atmosphere
impregnated with the perfumes of ylang-ylang, heliotrope, peau d'Espagne, jonquil, iris, poudre
de riz, and odor di femina. The heads of the different departments are seen passing to and
fro with fragments of a dress or a corsage in their arms, and amid the buzzing assembly the
models move incessantly, like animated statues, silent and majestic. From time to time the
voice of the great artist is heard giving brief and imperious orders, or scolding plaintively
because a ruche has been substituted for a flounce on the dress of Madame X----, or a light
fur for a dark fur on the mantle of the Baronne de V----,--"a pale blonde! The whole thing
will have to be made over again. What can I do if I am not seconded?" he asks irritably. "Truly,
mesdemoiselles, c'est à se donner au diable!" With these words flung at a little group of employees,
the great man appears. He is a short man, dressed in light-gray trousers, a blue coat with
a broad velvet collar and silk lappels in which are stuck a few pins for use in sudden inspirations,
a flowered waistcoat, and a heavy watch-chain. His head is bald and surrounded by a fringe
of dust-colored gray hair, frizzled so finely that it looks like swans'-down. His whiskers
and moustache have the same fine and woolly appearance. His blue eyes look worn and faded;
his face has flushed red patches on a pale anaemic ground; his expression is one of subdued
suffering, due to the continual neuralgia by which he is tormented, thanks to the strong perfumes
which his elegant customers force him to inhale all day long. Epinglard, for so we will call
him for convenience' sake, rarely dines during the busy season: he is the martyr of his profession.
He has a house exquisitely decorated and arranged, but he lives alone, his daily commerce with
women having disinclined him to risk the lottery of marriage. Nevertheless, he is much effeminized;
and his employees will assure you that he wears cambric nightcaps bordered with lace, and a
lace jabot on his night-shirts. His life is entirely devoted to his art, and he conscientiously
goes on Tuesdays to the Comédie Française, on Fridays to the Opera, and on Saturdays to the
Italians or the Circus, because those are the nights selected by rank and fashion, and therefore
excellent occasions for observing the work of his rivals. For the same reason Epinglard will
be seen on fashionable days at the races, and at first performances at the fashionable theatres,
but always alone. In confidence, Epinglard will tell you that he adores solitude and loves
his art with undivided and disinterested passion. "It gives me pleasure," he will say, "to
see a woman well dressed, whoever may have dressed her. For my own part, I do not care to get
myself talked about. I mind my own business and I make my own creations, but I am perfectly
ready to admire the creations of others. It is not the mere creation that I find difficult:
it is to get my creations executed."

Epinglard talks slowly, precisely, and in a sing-song and hypocritical voice, while his fingers,
laden with heavy rings, caress voluptuously some piece of surah or silk. He is in serious consultation
with one of the leaders of fashion, the Baronne de P----. Suddenly changing his tone, he calls
out to a model who is passing, "You there, mademoiselle, put on this skirt to show to madame,"
And, turning the model round, he shows the skirt in all its aspects, passing his fingers amorously
over the batiste and seeming to give it life and beauty by his mere touch. "And you, Mademoiselle
Ernestine, come here, too," calling to another model; who is walking about gloomily with a
mantle on her shoulders: "put on Madame A----'s mantle." Then, changing back to his hypocritical
tone, Epinglard continues his sing-song monologue to the Baronne de P----, and tells her that
Madame A---- is a "great English lady who has deserted her husband and is now living in Paris.
She spends about sixteen thousand dollars a year on her toilets. It is a good deal, yes. But,
imagine, last month I made a mantle for the Countess Z---- which cost five thousand dollars.
Look at that line" (caressing the mantle on the model's shoulders) "and the slope of the hips.
It is perfect. And the embroidery and the trimming, all made on the material of the mantle
itself by my own embroiderers."

This afternoon Epinglard is in a theorizing mood, and, after having sent for Bamboula, as he
calls her familiarly, a dark-skinned model, he drapes her in a pale-yellow tulle dress, and
proceeds to lament that so few Frenchwomen will wear yellow, owing to a silly popular prejudice.
"Ah, madame la baronne," he continues, "you cannot conceive what lovely combinations of rose
and yellow I have made. Why not? There are roses with yellow pistils. Why should not we do
in stuffs what nature does in flowers? For us couturiers, as for the painter and the sculptor,
the great source of inspiration is nature. There are many of my colleagues who fill their portfolios
with the engravings of Eisen, Debucourt, Moreau, and the masters of the eighteenth century.
But this is not sufficient: we must go back to nature. I pass my summer in the country, and
in the rich combinations of floral color I find the gamut of tones for my toilets. But I am
allowing myself to theorize too much. If madame la baronne will be good enough to come to-morrow,
I will compose something for her in the mean time. This afternoon I am scarcely in the humor
for a creation of such importance." And, with a grave salute, Epinglard passes into a saloon
where two ladies are waiting impatiently, particularly the younger of the two, who has come,
under the wing of her fashionable relative, to be introduced to the grand couturier.

"Bonjour, Monsieur Epinglard," begins the elder. "I have come to ask you to create a masterpiece.
It will not be the first time, will it? My niece is going to her first ball next month, and
I wish her to have a dress on which your signature will be visible."

Epinglard falls into a meditative pose, his elbow in one hand, his chin in the other, and looks
long at the young girl, scrutinizing not only the line and modelling of the body, but the expression
of the face, the eyes, the shade and nature of the hair, reading her temperament with the lucidity
of a phrenologist aided by the divination of a plastic artist who has had great experience
of feminine humanity. The examination lasts many minutes, and finally, as if under the inspiring
influence of the god of taste, Epinglard, in broken phrases, composes the dress: "Toilette
entirely of tulle ... corsage plaited diagonally ... around the décolletage four ruches ...
the skirt relieved with drapery of white satin falling behind like a peplum ... on the shoulder--the
left shoulder--a bouquet of myosotis or violets ... that is how I see mademoiselle dressed."
And Epinglard salutes gravely, while an assistant, who has noted down the prophetic utterances
of the master, conducts the subject to a room in the centre of which is an articulated model
of a feminine torso, with movable breasts, flattened rag arms hanging at the sides, and a combination
of straps and springs to adjust the taille or waist,--a most sinister and grotesque object,
all crumpled and shrivelled up and covered with shiny, glazed calico. This is the studio of
one of the most important of the secondary artists in dress-making, the corsagère. The chief
of this department takes the subject in hand, and, with the aid of pieces of coarse canvas,
such as the tailors use to line coats, she takes a complete mould of the body, cutting and
pinning and smoothing with her hand until the mould is perfect. This is the first step toward
the execution of the master's plan. At the next séance of trying-on, the subject passes simultaneously
through the hands of several heads of departments,--the corsagère, the jupière, who drapes
the skirts and arranges the train, and the second jupière, who mounts and constructs the skirt.
The corsage is brought all sewn and whaleboned, but only basted below the arms and at the shoulder,
and as soon as it is in place--"crac! crac!"--the corsagère, with angry fingers, breaks the
threads, and then calmly and patiently rejoins the seams and pins them together so that the
joinings may lie perfectly flat and even. On her knees, turning patiently round and round,
the jupière drapes the skirt on a lining of silk, seeking to perfect the roundness, sparing
no pains, and displaying in all she does the artist's amour-propre, the desire to achieve a
masterpiece in the detail which the masculine designer has allotted to her care. These women
who lend their light-fingered collaboration to the imagination of the bearded dress-maker are
really admirable in their sentiment of their work, in their artist's ambition, which thinks
not merely of the week's salary, but of the perfection of the masterpiece. They seem to find
intense personal satisfaction in producing a beautiful toilet, in fashioning a delicate thing
which almost has the qualities of a work of art; and when the subject is naturally well formed,--tout
faite, as they say,--and not artificially made up with what is called the taille de couturière,
their painstaking knows no bounds.

During these long séances, which last for hours together and occupy so large a place in the
day of a woman of fashion, the common love of toilet makes, for the moment at least, the grande
dame or the aristocrat the equal of the modest employee, and, while the jupière is turning
round and round madame la baronne, there often takes place a lively interchange of gossip and
a review of the plastic qualities of the friends and rivals in beauty of madame la baronne
who are also customers of the house. The grand couturier himself is a treasure-house of queer
stories and scandals, and naturally his employees take after their master. The couturier, you
see, is not a tradesman: he is an artist, and he renders a woman far greater service than the
artist-painter, who finds her already dressed and only has to copy her, whereas the couturier
dresses a woman not once, but twenty times a year, and each time that he invents a becoming
toilet he makes a new creation not only of the toilet, but of the woman. There has, in fact,
been a great change made in modern times in matters of dress. Our modern women are no longer
content with merely seasonable dresses, appropriate in form and material for spring, summer,
autumn, or winter; they are no longer satisfied to have four interviews a year with the dress-maker.
On the contrary, every event in social life--a wedding, a ball, a visit to a country-house,
the annual excursions to sea-side and mountain--gives occasion for special dresses, or rather
costumes, for in modern toilets the element of pure costume plays a considerable rôle especially
in those destined for wear in the country. The modern woman of fashion needs endless morning,
afternoon, and evening dresses, tea-gowns, breakfast-dresses, of endless varieties of form,
stuff, and color. Hence she is constantly in communication with the couturier, who has every
opportunity of examining her morally and physically, confessing her, listening often to strange
confidences. Not unfrequently he combines with his artistic career that of a banker. Naturally,
ladies who run up yearly bills of twenty thousand dollars for gowns and mantles are often in
a corner for want of a few thousands, and the Parisienne in such circumstances often thinks
it equally natural to have recourse to the strange creature who dresses her and who thus comes
to occupy a very curious position on the confines of society.

The final trying-on of the dresses of madame la baronne is a grand day, and often a few friends,
both ladies and gentlemen, are invited to assist at the ceremony; for the Parisiennes recognize
in some of their masculine friends, and particularly in painters, certain talents for appreciating
dress. Why not? Were not these men the great innovators in modern dressing? and are not men
still the great artists in costume? Madame la baronne prepares herself in one of the little
saloons. First of all come the skirts and the young ladies who preside over the fabrication
of the dessous, or underclothing, for it is an axiom in modern French dress-making that half
the success of the toilet depends on the underclothing, or, as the French put it in their neat
way, "Le dessous est pour la moitié dans la réussite du dessus." Then follows the tying of
the skirt of the dress, which is suspended on hooks round the bottom of the corset, the buttoning
of the corsage, the preliminary tapping and caressing necessary to make the folds of the skirt
sit well, and then madame la baronne makes her appearance triumphantly before her friends assembled
in the adjoining saloon. The great artist himself deigns to contemplate the finished work.
Standing off at some distance, so as to take in the general effect, as if he were examining
a picture, he gazes upon the dress with impassible eyes, and then, after a Napoleonic silence,
during which all present hold their breath, the great man expresses his satisfaction, perhaps
even falls on his knees in mute admiration of his masterpiece, or in the twinkling of an eye
gives a pinch to a frill or a twist to a plait which transforms and perfects the whole, such
is the magic power of those marvellous fingers when they touch the delicate tissues of silk
or lace or velvet. Then, while the master is sating his eyes, all the staff of the house defiles
through the saloon,--the chief saleswoman, the cutter-out, the chef des jupes, the chef des
corsages, the chef des garnisseuses, the première brodeuse, and half a dozen other premièeres,
who open the door and ask, with caressing intonations of voice and pretty smiles, "Vent-on
me permettre de voir un pen?"

What other mysteries are there to be revealed in the house of the couturier? We have glanced
at the packing-rooms, the working-rooms with their battalions of girls and women toiling away
with their needles by daylight and gas-light. We caught a glimpse of the reception-saloons
and the trying-on-rooms, all strewn with fragments of dresses,--disjecta membra,--mountains
of silk, and peopled with automatic human mannequins, essayeuses, who, as the moralists will
tell you, are all "vicieuses qui ne manquent de rien," and who are destined sooner or later
to reinforce the demi-monde. We have seen the process of creating and fitting a dress, the
ceremony of trying-on, and the rôle of the creating artist in all this. Now, to make our indiscretion
complete, we have only to peep into the salon des amazones, a room draped in green velvet and
decorated with whips, stirrups, and side-saddles. The table in the middle is piled up with
heaps of dark-colored cloth and hats with green, brown, and blue veils. At one end is a life-size
wooden horse, and presiding over this room is a blonde effeminate young man, whose business
it is to offer his clasped hands as a mounting-stone to help the ladies to jump on to the back
of the wooden steed, while the tailor arranges the folds of their riding-habits.

Besides Pingat, the most artistic of the Parisian dress-makers, besides Worth, who has a specialty
of court-dresses for exportation and showy dresses for American actresses, and whose style
is pompous and official, besides Felix, the dresser of slender women, the favorite artist of
the aristocracy of birth and talent,--all three so well known that the mention of their names
here cannot be regarded as an advertisement,--there are a dozen other bearded dress-makers
in Paris whose talent is worthy of admiration, and whose caprices might amuse us if we had
time to dwell upon them. There is, however, a grande couturière who surpasses all her masculine
rivals in fatuity and caprice, namely, Madame Rodrigues, the great theatrical dress-maker.
Madame Rodrigues always asks the journalists not to mention her by name. "Put simply," she
says, "the first dress-maker in Paris. Everybody will know who is meant." This lady regards
herself as the collaborator of Sardou and Dumas and Augier. Dumas is her peculiar favorite.
"We understand each other," she says, "and he finds that my genius completes his."

Nothing can be more amusing than the scene in her vast saloons about four o'clock in the afternoon.
The grande couturière--Madame, as her employees respectfully call her--issues from her private
rooms and finds herself in presence of a score of ladies, not merely actresses, but society
ladies, to whom she has given rendezvous for that day.

"I am exceedingly sorry, mesdames," the great artist will exclaim, "but I cannot attend to
you to-day."

"But, dear madame, you wrote to me--"

"I must have my dress for to-morrow."

"My ball takes place to-night--"

"Mesdames, I repeat, it is impossible. If one of my assistants likes to take you in hand, well
and good. That is all I can do for you."

Then, turning round, she perceives a stout lady who looks imploringly at her, and declares
brusquely, "Ah, madame, I have already told you that I cannot undertake to dress you. You are
not my style. I do not understand plump women."

"But, Madame Rodrigues--"

"If one of my premières cares to take you in hand, I have no objection; but that is all I can
do for you."

The only thing that calms the great artist is the arrival of one of her favorite actresses.

"Ah, bonjour, Madame Judic: you will have your toilets on Friday--"

"But the first performance is announced for Wednesday."

"They must put it off, then, for I am not ready. We will try your dress for the second act
this afternoon." And the grande couturière settles herself in her arm-chair, calls for her
footstool, her fan, her cup of beef-tea, her smelling-salts, and so proceeds to preside over
the terrible and imposing ceremony of trying on the dress of a fashionable actress.

Doubtless the luxury of the Parisiennes is not so great now as it was under the Empire; but
the falling off in the home trade is partly compensated by the increase in the foreign customers.
In Paris alone the dress-making trade represents the movement of fifty millions of dollars
a year and gives employment to some fifty thousand women; and many of the elegant society women
spend from twenty to thirty thousand dollars a year on their costume and toilet. But it must
not be believed that the modern couturier is the first who has known how to draw up big bills,
or that the modern lingère is the first who has dared to charge two hundred dollars for a chemise
and half as much for a pocket-handkerchief. Dress has always reigned supreme in France at least.
Louis XVI. has been guillotined, Napoleon I. exiled, Charles X. dismissed, Louis Philippe and
Napoleon III. replaced without their leave by a new form of government. But dress has never
been dethroned; and, just as in our own days Dupin thundered in the Senate against the desperate
luxury of the Parisiennes of the Empire, so in the eighteenth century old Sebastien Mercier
lamented that the fear of the milliners' bills prevented young men from marrying, and so left
fifteen hundred thousand girls without husbands! The great dress-makers of those days were
Madame Eloffe, the artist who dressed Marie Antoinette, and whose account-books have recently
been published; with notes and curious colored plates, by the Comte de Reiset, and Madame Cafaxe,
the modiste-couturière of the Fauburg St.-Honoré, celebrated for her exorbitant charges. One
has only to consult the curious historical researches of the brothers De Goncourt in order
to appreciate the luxury and extravagance of the past century. Imagine that in the wedding-trousseau
of Mademoiselle Lepelletier Saint-Fargeau there figured twelve blonde wigs, varying in shade
from flax to gold! Madame Tallien alone possessed thirty of these wigs, each of which was valued
at that time at one hundred dollars,--that is to say, some two hundred dollars of modern money.
None of our modern élégantes would ever think of buying six thousand dollars' worth of false
hair. At the same epoch the ladies who had fallen in love with Greek and Roman fashions had
abandoned the old-fashioned shoe in order to adopt the cothurnus; and Coppe, the chic shoemaker,
or corthurnier, of Paris charged sixty dollars a pair for his imitation antique sandals, with
their straps. Alas! Coppe's sandals were no more durable than the fleeting rose, and whenever
a fair dame came to show her torn cothurnus to the great Coppe he replied sadly, "The evil
is irremediable: madame has been walking!"

THEODORE CHILD.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR MONTHLY GOSSIP.

A Future for Women.

From the last report of the Bureau of Education it appears that twice as many girls as boys
enter high schools in the United States, and that three times as many complete the four years'
course. "Nature," in commenting upon this fact, attributes it to the great attractiveness of
commercial pursuits in this country, and the consequent eagerness of boys to enter upon them
at as early an age as possible. This is doubtless the true reason, and the disproportion is
more likely to increase than to diminish, even though the actual number of boys who rush into
a money-making career as soon as they have mastered the arithmetic necessary for it may be
growing smaller. It is beginning, moreover, to be an every-day matter for women to receive
a college education. There are already three well-filled colleges of high rank exclusively
their own, and the new Bryn Mawr bids fair to be a powerful rival to Vassar, Smith, and Wellesley.
Many of the colleges for men are open to them; now, and the capitulation of those strongholds
of conservatism. Cambridge. New Haven, and Baltimore, is only a question of time. Great colleges
are ravenous for fresh endowments, and the offer of a large sum of money may at any moment
procure from them the full admission of women. It is not impossible that before many years
have passed there will be as many women as men receiving a college education. How is this army
of educated women going to occupy itself?

There is another aspect to the question. Not only is the mass of women better fitted than ever
before for worthy occupation, there has never been a time nor a country in which their traditionary
sphere has shrunk to so small dimensions. Nowhere else are there so many women of such a station
that they are not obliged to toil and spin, nor to sleep all day to make up for nights of dissipation.
For all those who do not have to concern themselves with the wherewithal of living, the art
of living easily has been brought to a state of great perfection. The general care of the house
and of the children is still the duty of the woman, but the labor involved in acquitting herself
of that duty is a very different matter from what it was a generation ago. Then all her energies
were needed to bring up a family well. Brewing and baking and soap- and candle-making were
all carried on in the house, and there were a dozen children to be kept neatly dressed with
the aid of no needle but her own. Now the purchase of the day's supplies is the only important
demand upon her time; well-trained servants, the descendants of the raw Irish girl her mother
struggled with, are capable of carrying on the cooking and the scrubbing by themselves. Sewing
it is hardly worth her while to do in the house. Stitching her linen collars was once an important
item in her year's work; now it is safe to say that there is not a single woman who does not
buy her collars ready made. Making cotton cloth into undergarments has become a manufacture
in the unetymological sense of the word. The Viscount de Campo-Grande, in addressing the Royal
Academy of Moral and Political Sciences at Madrid, two years ago, admitted that sewing was
no longer an economy, but urged women to practise it still for the purpose of quieting their
nerves. But the modern American woman who has had a healthy bringing up, who has divided her
girlhood between vigorous study and active out-door exercise, who can row and skate and play
ball and tennis with her brothers, has no unquiet nerves. She does not ask for sedatives, but
for some high stimulus to call into play her strong and well-trained faculties. Money-making,
the natural sphere of man, has become a more and more absorbing pursuit, while the usual feminine
occupations have become more than ever trivial and unimportant at the very moment when the
feminine mind has taken a new start in its development. The woman who is fresh from reading
Gauss and Pindar, and who has taken sides in the discussion between the adherents of Roscher
and of Mill, cannot easily content herself with the petty economies that result from doing
her own cutting and fitting and dusting and table-setting. Still less, if she has not married,
is she satisfied to look forward to the position of nursery governess to her sister-in-law's
children. Her education has fitted her for something better than to save the wages of an upper
servant. Again the question is forced upon her, where can she find a fitting field for the
exercise of her powers?

To many people, who have all the means of existence they care for without a struggle, it seems
that the only thing that can give a thorough interest and zest to life is to devote themselves
to the elevation of the degraded classes of society. They find such monotony in their own comfortable
ways of living, and the misery of the very poor seems so appalling to them, that they cannot
escape from the passionate desire to spend themselves in their service. The problems connected
with the relief and the prevention of the wretchedness by which they are surrounded have all
the interest of a scientific experiment, and are capable of calling out all the fervor of a
religion. But for the few people here and there who have now the passion of the reformer it
is not impossible that another generation may see many thousands. A second christianization
of the world may convert all the happy into the consolers of the unhappy, instead of leading
people to absorb themselves in the question of their own salvation. No one can say how great
a change might be made in the fair face of the earth if the effort to remove the causes of
poverty and of disease should become the serious occupation of half mankind. In the lower stages
of existence the extermination of evil has been the work of a slow and gradual process. Millions
of individuals have been sacrificed in order to produce the few who were fitted to their surroundings.
But at last a creature has been produced of so much intelligence that he is able to undertake
his own further development. He can speculate upon the causes of his failures in the search
for happiness, and he can apply remedies. It is true that those remedies have often been productive
of more harm than good, it is true that it would be hard to calculate the evil effects of the
English poor-laws, for instance, but all the experiments that have hitherto worked badly are
but so much material from which to draw a knowledge of better methods. When the Wlllimantic
Thread Company has found a way to make its girls come singing from their work as they go to
it, and to make better thread at the same time, no one can say that great changes may not be
brought about when once scientific methods shall have been discovered for the extermination
of disease and crime. What more interesting field for investigation, for theory, for active
work, can women find than that large kind of charity which is to supersede in the future the
indiscriminate alms-giving of the past? The unselfishness that is demanded by the life of a
reformer they have already in large abundance. There is no limit to the devotion which many
women show their families, but such devotion has in these days become so unnecessary as to
be little more than a higher form of selfishness. Perhaps it only needs a leader to turn this
store of energy into wider channels and to make it subservient to larger ends. Perhaps the
labor and patience and self-renunciation that are necessary to the regeneration of the world
are to come from women. Such an absolute disregard of self as they are capable of, if it were
once allowed to overflow the narrow limits of the home, might in no long time turn a goodly
portion of the world into a garden of roses. There are still men who wish to appropriate to
themselves all the high qualities of their women, but they belong to a race that is destined
to rapid extinction, and to most rapid extinction in this country. That American men are more
thoroughly chivalrous than English is a common belief. It was curiously confirmed by the English
clergyman who wrote to the "Nation," some years ago, to describe the qualities which an English
clergyman ought to have in order to be successful in this country, and who said that he had
found it necessary not to let it be known that his wife warmed his slippers for him. The theory
that woman exists solely for the purpose of smoothing the wrinkles from the brow of man is
one that seldom finds expression now, except in the Lenten sermons of men who are content to
drop out of the ranks of those who influence opinion. But the great freedom that the modern
woman has gained for herself, the thorough education that is for the first time within her
reach, the strong sympathies that are her inheritance,--these are grounds of a responsibility
that she cannot but feel to be a heavy one. What better outlet can she find for her activities
than to carry forward that slow process of fitting together the human race and its surroundings
which it is no longer necessary to leave to chance?

CHRISTINE LADD-FRANKLIN.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Ice-Saints.

There are three days in the spring of the year called by the French Les Saints de Glace. These
days are the 12th, 13th, and 14th of May, and the saints to whom they are dedicated are Saint
Mamert, Saint Pancras, and Saint Servais. They are very obscure saints, in honor of whom few
children have been named, and, were it not for the vast parish of Saint Pancras which once
comprised all the northwestern part of London, their names as well as their history would be,
to Protestants at least, entirely unknown. They have, however, the evil reputation of commonly
bringing with them a nipping frost, and are abhorred in Burgundy as the great enemies of the vine.

Their advent this year was telegraphed to Paris by the New York "Herald," whose weather reporter
was probably quite ignorant of any ecclesiastical traditions connected with the matter. On
May 11 the following despatch was received in Paris: "A great depression, having its centre
in the neighborhood of Lake Ontario, will be followed by a cyclone of great extent, travelling
in the direction of Halifax, It will probably occasion great changes of temperature along the
coasts of Great Britain and France, beginning May 12 and continuing till May 14." Never was
prediction better fulfilled. The Ice-Saints sank the French thermometer to 6° Centigrade, corresponding
to 21° Fahrenheit, a temperature more severe in those latitudes than the cold of an ordinary
Christmas. When the Ice-Saints had departed the weather grew mild again.

M. Quetelet, the head of the Observatory at Brussels, has paid great attention to the periodicity
of weather-changes in Europe. The result of his investigations is as follows:

I. That there is always a "cold snap" between the 7th and 11th of January, during which ordinarily
occurs the coldest day of the year.

II. That from January 22 to March 1 there is, as we say in our vernacular, "a let-up" on the
coldness of the temperature. In France there is no ground-hog, or, if there is, he so generally
sees no shadow upon Candlemas (February 2) that the three weeks succeeding it are called L'Été
de la Chandeleur.

III. In April cold may be expected from the 9th to the 22d, and the Ice-Saints may prolong
their influence to May 23, after which there is no more possibility of frosts in France, though
within my memory June frosts have been twice known in Maryland and Virginia. The prolonged
frost in May is said to be produced by an understanding between the Ice-Saints and what is
called in France La Lune Rousse,--the Red Moon.

IV. Though it needs no prophet to foretell hot weather from June 6 to June 23. M, Quetelet's
observations point to June 13 and June 22 as days of exceptionally high temperature.

V. Between July 4 and July 8 comes the hottest day of the summer, which is not to be looked
for in the dog-days, which are from July 21 to August 20.

VI. July 25 distinguishes itself by being cool, and August 25 tempers ten days of heat which
commonly begin on the 15th of August.

VII. September 14 and September 30 are days when the thermometer may be expected to make a
sudden fall.

VIII. Cold weather may be looked for from October 20 to October 29, and from November 10 to
November 19; but in the first ten days of November comes what we call Indian summer, and the
French L'Été des Morts,--because it succeeds All-Souls' Day,--or L'Été de Saint Martin.

M. Quetelet adds no observations on December, it being presumably a cold month everywhere.

M. Fourmet, of Lyons, has also made meteorological observations of the same nature in Southern
France, and especially in the valley of the Rhone. He says the lowest temperature in each month
is as follows: January 9 and 21. February 3, 12, and 20. March 5 and 21. April 19. May 12,
13, and 14. June 8, 20, and 27. July 12 and 25. August 2, 12, and 24. September 5, 15, and
30. October 22. November 5 and 17. December 3 and 29.

M. Charles Sainte-Claire Deville has also been engaged in careful weather-calculations for
many years, and has been in constant correspondence on the subject with the Académie des Sciences.
His theory is based on the existence of the three Ice-Saints in May, and he considers that
a similar periodic influence may be traced in other months of the year. He maintains that there
are three days in every month, with an interval of about ten days between them, in which we
may look for a fall of temperature, and that the weather gradually grows warmer during the
interval that separates them. His observations are only in part corroborated by those of M.
Quetelet and M. Fourmet.

E.W.L.

       *       *       *       *       *

A Svenska Maid.

Marie has been in the United States about four years, and still accents her English with the
Lapp-Finn modulations of Northern Sweden. She is only eighteen years old now. She has fair
hair and a serene fair face somewhat like the Liberty face on our silver dollar. Her young
shape is strong and handsome, and she has white little teeth like a child's, and the innocent
nature of a child.

Marie's father is a Swedish farmer. Many adventurers came to America from her neighborhood,
and, though but fourteen years old, she wanted to come too; and a cousin's husband, already
settled in Illinois, lent her the passage-money. The last Sunday, according to custom, all
her friends brought offerings to church, and she was made to go through the congregation holding
her apron. They filled it with cake, a Bible, etc. The young people walked with her parents
and herself to the steamer-landing, and kept from crying until she was aboard.

When the steamer was under way an old woman came across her in the steerage, and exclaimed,
"Why, child, where are your father and mother?"

To which Marie responded, with the gentle persistence peculiar to her, "I leave them in Svadia.
I go to America."

Though all the steerage people were kind to her, she fell into bad hands by way of her tender
sympathies. There were a man and woman with a family of small children, who were coming to
America carrying an unsavory record. The woman fell ill, and Marie nursed her, and she fastened
herself upon Marie with brutal tenacity. She took away a little silk shawl the child had inherited
and was bringing over as a chief bit of finery. She had a delicate appetite for steerage fare,
and ate up the precious cheese Marie's mother had given for a parting gift. And she took charge
of Marie's bit of money, never returning it.

"If she had but left me my cheese," says the Svenska maid, "I might have had something to eat
between New York and Illinois. I just had my ticket in the cars, and, oh, it was more than
two days, and I had such feelings in my stomach! I was all alone and speak not a word of English,
and everybody around me eat, but I would not try to ask for somethings. A German family by
me have lots to eat, and when they left the cars I got down under the seat and pick up orange-peel
they throw down, and eat that. I could not sleep in the night, I feel so bad. And when I get
to Illinois and to Willingham, the Swede people not meet me yet, and a woman took me to her
house to get my dinner, I never taste anything so good in my life, but I eat with my hat on.
The woman tried to take it off, and I hold on with both hands. I thought she was going to take
my hat for pay, and I could not do without it."

The little maid fell sick among her kin, and a great doctor's bill of a year and a half accumulated
upon her. The cousin's husband paid it and added the debt to her passage-money. By the time
she was able to work, her pretty pale face had attracted an old man, and this persistent suitor
tormented her until she was wellnigh helpless in the hands of her relatives. They set her debt
before her, and reminded her of the obligation she was under to marry a rich man.

"But I said, 'I won't, I won't, I won't,'" says Marie. "That is all the English I could talk,
and I would say, 'I won't.' Then my cousin told me I must leave; I could not stay in her house.
And I felt dreadful bad. The young folks come in with provisions to see me: they made a party
because I was going away. And I notice that all kept being called into the next room but me.
I was weak yet, and it made me feel as if they wanted to slight me. But last of all they called
me into the next room, and there was twenty-five dollar they had made up to give me. And I
cried; I could not talk and thank them, but just cried hard as I could cry. Then I took that
money and paid part of my debt, and got a good place to work."

Marie is strong, willing, humble, and touchingly friendly in the position of the Western "girl."
She is ambitious to learn American ways. She makes the most delicious pancakes that ever fluffed
upon a griddle or united with butter and maple syrup. She is religious, she is tender with
children, she is full of love for her native land. Her lovers are not encouraged.

"I go back to Sveden to visit it once more in five years. I go back before I marry any man,
now my debt is all paid."

This Svenska maid is full of folk-stories. She tells the children how St. John's eve is celebrated
in Sweden. The young men and girls bring boughs and construct arbors. They stay up all night,
eating, playing, and visiting from arbor to arbor. About midsummer, it is true, there is very
little night in Northern Sweden.

"This was once in the papers," says Marie innocently. "They said it was true. There was a girl
going to take her first communion, and she got into the churchyard before she missed her braid.
Then she turned round and started home after her braid, and met a man with a covered basket
on his arm. He asked her what she was going for, and she told him she was going home for what
she forgot, and the man said, 'Look in the basket, and see if that is your switch.' She looked,
and there was the hair coiled up. Then he asked her if he might put it on her head, and the
girl said yes, and he put it on, and she went to church.

"It came to the place where the minister gives her the bread, and her braid slipped down on
one shoulder; but when he gave her the wine it jump like it going to strike the cup, for it
was a snake the man put on her, and it was fast to her head and never came off again."

Marie's mother in youth worked for a Swedish farmer, and it was her duty to get up about three
o'clock in the morning and light a fire under the boiler where the cows' feed was heated. This
was in the barn. The cows stood upon a floor over a large pit wherein were caught all the liquids
of the stable. The sleepy maid took a coal upon a chip, instead of matches, and this primitive
custom saved her from horribly drowning. For as she opened the cows' stable one morning, and
was taking a step within, the chip flared up, and showed her three cows swimming below in the
pit. The floor had given way.

"Sometimes there are excursions across the ocean," says Marie, speaking of that star of a home
visit which lures her into the future, "and you can go and come back for twenty-five dollars.
They do not have nice things to eat in the steerage, but you can keep alive." M.H.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

The "Additional Hair" Supply.

The late war between France and China had one effect which the public did not expect,--it created
a panic among the French dealers in human hair. Before that war began it was not generally
known that a vast proportion of the false hair used in Europe and America was imported from
China into France and there prepared for the trade. But the beginning of hostilities between
the two countries made the fact apparent by the sudden cutting off of the customary supply
from the Celestial Empire. A German paper mentions that in 1883 the hair thus imported amounted
to one hundred and twenty-four thousand seven hundred and fifteen kilograms, for which the
French dealers paid at the rate of only ten or twelve francs per kilogram. As no other country
can, or at any rate will, supply human hair in such enormous quantities and at such a low price,
the effect on the market may easily be imagined. The hair-merchants of Marseilles had been
accustomed to furnish at least twenty-five thousand coiffures for women and several thousand
wigs for men every year; and even before the stoppage of direct communication with China they
had found it hard to get as much raw material as they needed. When their principal drawing-point
became inaccessible they were reduced to despair, and perhaps presented the only case ever
known in which "tearing the hair" would seem to have been attended with some practical benefit.
However, the termination of the war revived their hopes, and they are now making up for the
lost time with a vigor and determination which even threaten the male Celestial with the loss
of his sacred pig-tail.

The European sources from which human hair is obtained are not numerous or very prolific. Many
peasant-women of Normandy and Bretagne sell their beautiful brown, red, or golden locks, but
these are of such fine quality that they command very high prices. Norman or Breton girls having
braids eighty centimetres in length sell them for as much as a thousand francs. Perfectly white
hair from the same French provinces brings a sum which seems almost fabulous. The French journal
"Science et Nature" declares that the price commonly paid for a braid of such white hair weighing
one kilogram is twenty-five thousand francs.

The hair-merchants of France have never been very successful in drawing supplies for their
business from England, Germany, or any of the countries in the northern part of Europe. Lately,
however, they have begun to have a good deal of success among the lower classes of the Italians.
Their imports from Italy are already comparatively large, and they seem to be increasing every
year. Such an easy way of getting money as this opportunity affords must appear vastly attractive
to the swarms of professional beggars who infest every highway, church door, and public square
in Southern Italy, and whose enjoyment of the indispensable dolce far niente cannot be spoiled
by merely submitting to the operation of having their hair cut off. It is probable that they
furnish much more of the hair brought from Italy than do the laboring-classes of the cities
or the honest contadini of the rural districts.

The idea of actually wearing hair which once belonged to some member of "the unspeakable" lazzaroni
tribe cannot be considered a fascinating one. At the same time it is at least not more unattractive
than the consciousness of having fallen heir to the capillary adornments of a Cantonese tonka-boat
girl. And in reality such a feeling, though natural enough, would be based upon nothing but
imagination. All the hair purchased and used by the dealers in Paris, Marseilles, and other
French cities to which the Chinese and Italian hair is brought goes through a number of preparatory
processes, which cleanse and purify it thoroughly; and when it is ready to be sold again it
is probably in as unobjectionable a state as hair can reach. As for the imagination, if we
were to allow it to govern us entirely in all such cases we should soon find ourselves restricted
to almost as few comforts and conveniences as those unhappy historical characters whose constant
fear of poison reduced their whole diet to boiled eggs. Still, the feeling is one of which
it is very hard to rid ourselves; and in all probability the ladies who derive the most unalloyed
satisfaction from their "additional" braids are those who have had them made from "combings"
of their own hair. J.A.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

LITERATURE OF THE DAY.

"The Rise of Silas Lapham." By William D. Howells. Boston: Ticknor & Co.

In his later books Mr. Howells has shown that he is on the point of discovering the secret
of the best novelists. Unabashed by the difficulties and dangers which beset the realistic
writer, he has gone to work to describe the simple machinery which puts in motion all human
actions and passions, and has given a subtile but sure analysis of certain phases of modern
life, and a vivid picture of at least two actual, warm, palpitating, breathing men. His success
in this respect is the more striking because he began by offering us mere pasteboard heroes
of the most conventional type. The male characters in his early books were, in fact, shuttle-cocks
to be tossed hither and thither by the mysterious contradictions, the incomprehensible inconsistencies,
of his heroines, whose scheme of existence was the indulgence of every whim, and whose notion
of logic was that one paradox must educe another still more startling. Having finally made
up his mind as to the insoluble nature of the female problem, he seems inclined to discard
mere clevernesses and prettinesses and to advance into the broad arena of real life, with its
diversity of actors and its multiplicity of interests. Both Bartley Hubbard in "A Modern Instance"
and Silas Lapham in the book before us strike us as admirable characterizations. If Lapham
is in certain respects a less original presentation than Bartley Hubbard, he is at least a
hero who draws more strongly upon the reader's sympathies and takes surer hold of the popular
heart. In fact, Silas, with his big, hairy fist, his ease in his shirt-sleeves, his boastful
belief in himself, his conscience, his ambition, and his failure, makes, if we include his
sensible wife, the success of the novel before us. The daughters are not, to our thinking,
so well rendered; while the Coreys, sterling silver as they ought to be, impress us instead
as rather thin electro-plates. The Boston Brahmins have entered a good deal into literature
of late, but so far without any brilliant results. According to their chroniclers, they spend
most of their time discussing in what respects they are providentially differentiated from,
their fellow-beings. Sometimes they put too fine a point upon it and wholly fail to make themselves
felt. But then again their superior knowledge of the world is patent to the most careless observer.
For instance, when Mrs. Corey pays a visit to Mrs. Lapham she apologizes for the lateness of
the hour, explaining that her coachman had never been in that part of Boston before. This naturally
casts an ineffaceable stigma upon the respectable square where the Laphams have hitherto resided,
and shows that between the two ladies there is a great gulf fixed.

The Coreys have the liveliest sense of all these nuances of deviation from their standards,
and strike us as rather amateurish, clever people who want to make sure of nice points and
get on in the world, rather than as real flesh-and-blood aristocrats with the freedom and ease
of acknowledged social supremacy.

While the Coreys try faithfully to compass the best that is known and thought in the world,
the Laphams go to the other extreme, and touch depths of ignorance and vulgarity almost incredible
for a family living in Boston with eyes to see, ears to hear, and, above all, money to spend.
For a sort of superficial culture is a part of the modern inheritance, and seems to belong
to the universal air. Even Penelope Lapham--the elder daughter, who is a girl of remarkable
shrewdness and gifted besides with a keen satirical sense which makes her the family wit--is
content to laugh at the family failings and provincialisms without any definite idea of how
they might be corrected. But the Laphams are all the more interesting because they display
no feeble and tentative gentilities. Mrs. Lapham's acceptance of Mrs. Corey's invitation to
dinner, in which she signs herself "Yours truly, Mrs. S. Lapham," initiates some delightful
scenes in the comedy. The colonel's resolution to go to the dinner in a frock-coat, white waistcoat,
black cravat, and ungloved hands, and his eventual panicky substitution of correct evening
dress regardless of cost, the anxieties of his wife and daughter on the question of suitable
raiment, the great affair itself, when the colonel comes out in a new character,--all this
part of the book shows in a high degree Mr. Howells's bright vein of humor.

But, putting aside the humor and comedy of "The Rise of Silas Lapham," the book has other points
of value, and, as a study of a business-man whom success floats to the crest of the wave only
to let him be overwhelmed by disaster as the surge retreats, presents a striking similitude
to Balzac's "César Birotteau." In each case we find a self-made man elated by a sense of his
commercial greatness, confident that the point he has already attained, instead of being the
climax of his career, is the stepping-stone to yet greater wealth, besides social distinction.
César Birotteau inaugurates what he believes to be his era of magnificence with a ball, while
Silas Lapham tempts fortune by building a fine house on the back bay. Each hero projects his
costly schemes in opposition to the wishes of a more sensible and prudent wife, and each, at
the moment when fate seemed bent on crowning his ambition, falls a prey to a series of cruel
and, in a way, undeserved misfortunes, and finds his well-earned commercial credit a mere house
of cards which totters to its fall. Each man, broken and bankrupt, displays in his feebleness
a moral strength he had not shown in his days of power: thus the name, "the rise of Silas Lapham,"
means his initiation into a clearer and more exalted knowledge of his obligations to himself
and to his kind. The moral of César Birotteau's "grandeur et decadence" strikes a still deeper
key-note. Compared with Balzac, who is never trivial, and who has the most unerring instinct
for character and motive, Mr. Howells wastes his force on non-essentials and is carried away
by frivolities and prettinesses when he ought to be grappling with his work in fierce earnest.
Balzac, whose unappeasable longing was to see his books the breviary, so to speak, of the people,
would have laughed and cried with Silas, lived with him, loved with him, and come to grief
with him, and forced his readers to do likewise. Mr. Howells is not so easily carried away
by his creations, and is too apt to laugh at them instead of with them. But his mature work
shows, nevertheless, a boldness and facility which ought to put the best results within its
compass; and we confidently look for better novels from his pen than he has so far written,
full of wit, humor, and cleverness, yet expanding outside of these gracful limitations into
the fullest nature and freedom.

/# "A Canterbury Pilgrimage. Ridden, Written, and Illustrated by Joseph and Elizabeth Robins
Pennell." New York: Charles Scribner's Sons. #/

It may be confessed that in certain respects bicycles and tricycles answer admirably to the
requirements of travellers in search of the picturesque. They are swift or slow at need, may
be halted without want or waste, and have no vicious instincts to be combated by whip or spur.
But they are nevertheless hideous inventions, and it is impossible for lookers-on to feel for
wheelmen the cordial good will given so freely to Mr. Stevenson on his donkey, for instance.
The rider on wheels is an object that exasperates the nerves of horses, dogs, and men. Mrs.
Pennell in this little book describes a collision on the old Kent Road with the driver of a
hansom cab, who sat watching their extrication scowling. If he had his way, he said, he would
burn all them things." And, little affiliation as most human beings have with cabmen, we yet
believe that he gave utterance to the sentiments of all non-wheelmen. However, the modern world
is likely to belong to bicycles and tricycles, and this attractive brochure, signed with the
names of one of our cleverest draughtsmen and his wife, with their silhouettes on the cover,
is likely to set more wheels in motion than there were before it was printed. The two evidently
enjoyed their expedition, and the lady tells the story easily and pleasantly; and if it is
relieved by little incident it is yet sustained by intelligent observation and discriminating
enthusiasm, while the illustrations are, like all Mr. Pennell's work, clever in the extreme.
The two left London on their tricycle late in August, and had the finest weather in which to
cross historic Blackheath and look up the picturesque wharves in Gravesend. Hop-pickers filled
the roads and offered many a subject for the artist's pencil. "We rode on with light hearts,"
recounts the fair wheelwoman. "An eternity of wheeling through such perfect country and in
such soft sunshine would, we thought, be the true earthly paradise.

Arrived at the close of the second day in Canterbury, the two "toke" their inn at the sign
of the "Falstaff," where hung "Honest Jack, in buff doublet and red hose," in a wonderful piece
of wrought-iron work. Whether next day, after viewing the cathedral, the tricycles pursued
their journey, is not told. The pilgrimage ends, as it should, at the shrine,--that is, where
the shrine had been; for the verger, after saying solemnly that they had come to the shrine
of St. Thomas, solemnly added, "'Enery the Heighth, when he was in Canterbury, took the bones,
which they was laid beneath, out on the green, and had them burned. With them he took the 'oly
shrine, which it and bones is here no longer."

       *       *       *       *       *

Fiction.

"The Lady with the Rubies." Translated from the German of E. Marlitt by Mrs. A.L. Wister. Philadelphia:
J.B. Lippincott Company.

"Barbara Heathcote's Trial." By Rosa Nouchette Carey. Philadelphia: J.B. Lippincott Company.

"The Bar Sinister. A Social Study." New York: Cassell & Co.

"Pine-Cones." By Willis Boyd Allen. Boston: D. Lothrop & Co.

"An Old Maid's Paradise." By Elizabeth Stuart Phelps. Boston: Houghton, Mifflin & Co.

In spite of all the clever pleas urged by the lovers of realism for realistic novels, it is
easy enough to see that the mass of readers are just as much in love as ever with a high romanticism,
and Miss Marlitt's stories still retain the strong hold they first took of the popular heart.
The success of fiction comes from the fact that it supplies a want existing in most people's
minds: lively incidents to awaken and stimulate the fancy, a touch of mystery to give a thrill
of pleasing fear, sharply diversified characters impelled by strong motives which insure a
lively conflict of passions,--all these are what the average novel-reader demands, and finds
in Miss Marlitt's works. A great rambling German house, with suites of disused apartments shut
away from sunshine and air and haunted by vanished forms and silent voices, while its open
rooms are tenanted by a nest of gentlefolks of all degrees of relation,--some united by love,
and others at swords'-points,--offers a lively field for the romancer; and such is the scene
in "The Lady with the Rubies." "Belief in the Powers of Darkness will never die so long as
poor human hearts love, hope, and fear," is the moral, so to speak, of the book; and the author
has used with good effect this vein of superstition which "makes the whole world kin." Little
Margarete's encounter with the family spectre, her flight from home, her lonely and terrifying
night, are touchingly described; and, in fact, the book is full of pretty child-pictures, which
enhance the pleasantness and charm of the love-story. Few of Miss Marlitt's books possess more
interest and diversity than "The Lady with the Rubies;" and, as usual with Mrs. Wister's work,
it is well and gracefully translated.

Given a family of girls well contrasted, utterly untrammelled, and each in possession of a
will and a way of her own, materials for a romance are not hard to find; and in telling the
story of the Heathcotes Miss Carey seems to have jotted down a series of events exactly as
they fell out in actual life. There is plenty of sentiment, but its expression is dealt out
with a sparing hand; there are pretty sylvan scenes, and the wood-paths, the warm homesteads,
the meadows and fields, all enter into the story and make a pleasant part of it. If "Barbara
Heathcote's Trial" has no leading motive as strong and as universally interesting as the author's
former book, "Not Like Other Girls," it is, to our thinking, quite as pleasant and readable,
and will no doubt enjoy its predecessor's popularity.

Romance has done much good work in the way of laying bare men's faults, hypocrisies, and evil
lusts, and if Mormonism is actually on the increase among us there is good reason for a novel
like "The Bar Sinister," which tells us the story of certain converts to the peculiar tenets
of the saints and introduces us into the every-day life of Salt Lake City. That our families
and our institutions are in peril from this monstrous and ridiculous evil it would not be easy
for us to believe. Yet it is impossible to read this book without a conviction that the author
could easily substantiate his facts by proofs, and that intelligent men and women have been
and are still being led away into the heresy. The incidents of the story are, however, calculated
to shock and repel the reader, who rises from its perusal sick and indignant as much from having
been confronted with such personages and their doings as from the fact that such people are
in existence. The author has without doubt enjoyed the advantage of a flesh-and-blood acquaintance
with leaders of the faith who talk unctuously of "Class No. 1, 2, 3, 4," etc.; and, besides
actual knowledge, there is strong feeling and earnest principle behind the whole narrative.

"Pine-Cones" is a pleasant story for young people, telling the adventures of a party of boy
and girl cousins making a visit among the great pine woods of Maine. There is plenty of open
air in the book, bright talk, and earnest stories told round the fire.

"An Old Maid's Paradise" is a bright little sketch of the adventures and misadventures of a
woman who builds a cottage on Cape Ann promontory for five hundred dollars, and settles down
to a joyful existence without any need of aid or comfort from living man except as a purveyor
and burglar-alarm. Every one likes to know the price of things, and it is pleasing to understand
exactly what may be done with five hundred dollars. "The cottage," as described by Miss Phelps,
"contained five rooms and a kitchen. The body of this imposing building stood twenty feet square
upon the ground. The kitchen measured nine feet by eight, and there was a wood-shed three feet
wide, in which Puella managed to pile the wood and various domestic mysteries into which Corona
felt no desire to penetrate. There were a parlor, a dining-room, a guest-room, and two rooms
left for 'the family.' There were two closets, a coal-bin, and a loft. The house stood on what,
for want of a scientific term, Corona called piers.... Corona's house had no plaster, no papering,
no carpets. Her parlor, which opened directly upon the water, was painted gray; the walls were
of the paler color in a gull's wing; the ceiling had the tint of dulled pearls; the floor was
rock-gray (a border of black ran around this floor); the beams and rafters, left visible by
the absence of plastering, were touched with what is known to artists as neutral tint," etc.
A very pleasant little cottage in itself, the description may be of practical utility to many
who would like some pied-à-terre by mountain or shore, and who are not quite certain what a
moderate outlay can do.

       *       *       *       *       *

Books Received.

The Poems of Thomas Bailey Aldrich. Household Edition. With illustrations. Boston and New York:
Houghton, Mifflin & Co.

Due South; or, Cuba Past and Present. By Maturin M. Ballou. Boston and New York: Houghton,
Mifflin & Co.

City Ballads. By Will Carleton. Illustrated. New York: Harper & Brothers.

A Social Experiment. By A.E.P. Searing. New York and London: G.P. Putnam's Sons.

Lawn-Tennis. By Lieutenant S.C.F. Peale, B.S.C. Edited by Richard D. Sears. New York: Charles
Scribner's Sons.

The America's Cup. By Captain Roland F. Coffin. New York: Charles Scribner's Sons.

Our Sea-Coast Defences. By Eugene Griffin, New York and London: G.P. Putnam's Sons.

Cholera. By Alfred Stillé, M.D., LL.D. Philadelphia: Lea Brothers & Co.