THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. XII, NO. 336.] SATURDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1828. [PRICE 2d.

Richmond Palace

Richmond has comparatively but few antiquarian or poetical visiters, notwithstanding all its
associations with the ancient splendour of the English court, and the hallowed names of Pope
and Thomson. Maurice sings,

  To thy sequester'd bow'rs and wooded height,
  That ever yield my soul renew'd delight,
  Richmond, I fly! with all thy beauties fir'd,
  By raptur'd poets sung, by kings admir'd!

but ninety-nine out of a hundred who visit Richmond, thank the gods they are not poetical,
fly off to the Star and Garter hill, and content themselves with the inspirations of its well-stored
cellars. All this corresponds with the turtle-feasting celebrity of the modern Sheen; but it
ill accords with the antiquarian importance and resplendent scenery of this delightful country.

Our engraving is from a very old drawing, representing the palace at Richmond, as built by
Henry VII. The manor-house at Sheen, a little east of the bridge, and close by the river side,
became a royal palace in the time of Edward I., for he and his successor resided here. Edward
III. died here in 1377. Queen Anne, the consort of his successor, died here in 1394. Deeply
affected at her death, he, according to Holinshed, "caused it to be thrown down and defaced;
whereas the former kings of this land, being wearie of the citie, used customarily thither
to resort as to a place of pleasure, and serving highly to their recreation." Henry V., however,
restored the palace to its former magnificence; and Henry VII. held, in 1492, a grand tournament
here. In 1499, it was almost consumed by fire, when Henry rebuilt the palace, and gave it the
name of RICHMOND. Cardinal Wolsey frequently resided here; and Hall, in his Chronicles, says,
that "when the common people, and especially such as had been servants of Henry VII., saw the
cardinal keep house in the manor royal at Richmond, which that monarch so highly esteemed,
it was a marvel to hear how they grudged, saying, 'so a butcher's dogge doth lie in the manor
of Richmond!'"[1]

Queen Elizabeth was prisoner at Richmond during the reign of her sister Mary; after she came
to the throne, the palace was her favourite residence; and here she died in 1608. Charles I.
formed a large collection of pictures here; and Charles II. was educated at Richmond. On the
restoration, the palace was in a very dismantled state, and having, during the commonwealth,
been plundered and defaced, it never recovered its pristine splendour.

The survey taken by order of parliament in 1649, affords a minute description of the palace.
The great hall was one hundred feet in length, and forty in breadth, having a screen at the
lower end, over which was "fayr foot space in the higher end thereof, the pavement of square
tile, well lighted and seated; at the north end having a turret, or clock-case, covered with
lead, which is a special ornament to this building." The prince's lodgings are described as
a "freestone building, three stories high, with fourteen turrets covered with lead," being
"a very graceful ornament to the whole house, and perspicuous to the county round about." A
round tower is mentioned, called the "Canted Tower," with a staircase of one hundred and twenty-four
steps. The chapel was ninety-six feet long and forty broad, with cathedral-seats and pews.
Adjoining the prince's garden was an open gallery, two hundred feet long, over which was a
close gallery of similar length. Here was also a royal library. Three pipes supplied the palace
with water, one from the white conduit in the new park, another from the conduit in the town
fields, and the third from a conduit near the alms-houses in Richmond. In 1650, it was sold
for 10,000l. to private persons.

All the accounts which have come down to us describe the furniture and decorations of the ANCIENT
PALACE as very superb, exhibiting in gorgeous tapestry the deeds of kings and of heroes who
had signalized themselves by their conquests throughout France in behalf of their country.

The site of Richmond Palace is now occupied by noble mansions; but AN OLD ARCHWAY, seen from
the Green, still remains as a melancholy memorial of its regal splendour.

       *       *       *       *       *

EPITOME OF COMETS.

(For the Mirror.)

  "Hast thou ne'er seen the Comet's flaming flight?"

YOUNG.

Comets, according to Sir Isaac Newton, are compact, solid, fixed, and durable bodies: in one
word, a kind of planets, which move in very oblique orbits, every way, with the greatest freedom,
persevering in their motions even against the course and direction of the planets; and their
tail is a very thin, slender vapour, emitted by the head, or nucleus of the comet, ignited
or heated by the sun.

There are bearded, tailed, and hairy comets; thus, when the comet is eastward of the sun, and
moves from it, it is said to be bearded, because the light precedes it in the manner of a beard.
When the comet is westward of the sun, and sets after it, it is said to be tailed, because
the train follows it in the manner of a tail. Lastly, when the comet and the sun are diametrically
opposite (the earth being between them) the train is hid behind the body of the comet, excepting
a little that appears around it in the form of a border of hair, or coma, it is called hairy,
and whence the name of comet is derived.

For the conservation of the water and moisture of the planets, comets (says Sir Isaac Newton)
seem absolutely requisite; from whose condensed vapours and exhalations all that moisture which
is spent on vegetations and putrefactions, and turned into dry earth, may be resupplied and
recruited; for all vegetables increase wholly from fluids, and turn by putrefaction into earth.
Hence the quantity of dry earth must continually increase, and the moisture of the globe decrease,
and at last be quite evaporated, if it have not a continual supply. And I suspect (adds Sir
Isaac) that the spirit which makes the finest, subtilest, and best part of our air, and which
is absolutely requisite for the life and being of all things, comes principally from the comets.

Another use which he conjectures comets may be designed to serve, is that of recruiting the
sun with fresh fuel, and repairing the consumption of his light by the streams continually
sent forth in every direction from that luminary--

  "From his huge vapouring train perhaps to shake
  Reviving moisture on the numerous orbs,
  Thro' which his long ellipsis winds; perhaps
  To lend new fuel to declining suns,
  To light up worlds, and feed th' ethereal fire."

THOMSON.

Newton has computed that the sun's heat in the comet of 1680,[2] was, to his heat with us at
Midsummer, as twenty-eight thousand to one; and that the heat of the body of the comet was
near two thousand times as great as that of red-hot iron. The same great author also calculates,
that a globe of red-hot iron, of the dimensions of our earth, would scarce be cool in fifty
thousand years. If then the comet be supposed to cool a hundred times as fast as red-hot iron,
yet, since its heat was two thousand times greater, supposing it of the bigness of the earth,
it would not be cool in a million of years.

An elegant writer in the Guardian, says, "I cannot forbear reflecting on the insignificance
of human art, when set in comparison with the designs of Providence. In pursuit of this thought,
I considered a comet, or in the language of the vulgar, a blazing star, as a sky-rocket discharged
by a hand that is Almighty. Many of my readers saw that in the year 1680, and if they were
not mathematicians, will be amazed to hear, that it travelled with a much greater degree of
swiftness than a cannon ball, and drew after it a tail of fire that was fourscore millions
of miles in length. What an amazing thought is it to consider this stupendous body traversing
the immensity of the creation with such a rapidity; and at the same time wheeling about in
that line which the Almighty had prescribed for it! That it should move in such inconceivable
fury and combustion, and at the same time with such an exact regularity! How spacious must
the universe be, that gives such bodies as these their full play, without suffering the least
disorder or confusion by it. What a glorious show are those beings entertained with, that can
look into this great theatre of nature, and see myriads of such tremendous objects wandering
through those immeasurable depths of ether, and running their appointed courses! Our eyes may
hereafter be strong enough to command the magnificent prospect, and our understandings able
to find out the several uses of these great parts of the universe. In the meantime, they are
very proper objects for our imagination to contemplate, that we may form more extensive notions
of infinite wisdom and power, and learn to think humbly of ourselves, and of all the little
works of human invention." Seneca saw three comets, and says, "I am not of the common opinion,
nor do I take a comet to be a sudden fire; but esteem it among the eternal works of nature."

P.T.W.

[2] The Comet which appeared in 1759, and which (says Lambert) returned
    the quickest of any that we have an account of, had a winter of
    seventy years. Its heat surpassed imagination.

       *       *       *       *       *

SONNETS.

BY LEIGH CLIFFE, AUTHOR OF "PARGA," "THE KNIGHTS OF RITZBERG," &c.

(For the Mirror.)

TO THE SUN.

  Hail to thee, fountain of eternal light,
  Streaming with dewy radiance in the sky!
  Rising like some huge giant from the night,
  While the dark shadows from thy presence fly.
  Enshrin'd in mantle of a varied dye,
  Thou hast been chambering in the topmost clouds,
  List'ning to peeping, glist'ning stars on high,
  Pillow'd upon their thin, aërial shrouds;
  But when the breeze of dawn refreshfully
  Swept the rude waters of the ocean flood,
  And the dark pines breath'd from each leaf a sigh,
  To wake the sylvan genius of the wood,
  Thou burst in glory on our dazzled sight,
  In thy resplendent charms, a flood of golden light!

TO THE MOON.

  Spirit of heaven! shadow-mantled queen,
  In mildest beauty peering in the sky,
  Radiant with light! 'Tis sweet to see thee lean,
  As if to listen, from cloud-worlds on high,
  Whilst murmuring nightingales voluptuously
  Breathe their soft melody, and dew-drops lie
  Upon the myrtle blooms and oaken leaves,
  And the winds sleep in sullen peacefulness!
  Oh! it is then that gentle Fancy weaves
  The vivid visions of the soul, which bless
  The poet's mind, and with sweet phantasies,
  Like grateful odours shed refreshfully
  From angels' wings of glistening beauty, tries
  To waken pleasure, and to stifle sighs!

       *       *       *       *       *

EMBLEM OF WALES.

(For the Mirror.)

It is supposed by some of the Welsh, and in some notes to a poem the author (Mr. P. Lewellyn)
says he has been confidently assured, that the leek, as is generally supposed to be, is not
the original emblem of Wales, but the sive, or chive, which is common to almost every peasant's
garden. It partakes of the smell and taste of the onion and leek, but is not so noxious, and
is much handsomer than the latter. It grows in a wild state on the banks of the Wye, infinitely
larger than when planted in gardens. According to the above-mentioned author, the manner in
which it became the national emblem of Cambria was as follows:--As a prince of Wales was returning
victorious from battle, he wished to have some leaf or flower to commemorate the event; but
it being winter, no plant or shrub was seen until they came to the Wye, when they beheld the
sive, which the prince commanded to be worn as a memorial of the victory.

Tipton, Staffordshire.

W.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

HISTORY OF FAIRS.

(For the Mirror.)

Fairs, among the old Romans, were holidays, on which there was an intermission of labour and
pleadings. Among the Christians, upon any extraordinary solemnity, particularly the anniversary
dedication of a church, tradesmen were wont to bring and sell their wares even in the churchyards,
which continued especially upon the festivals of the dedication. This custom was kept up till
the reign of Henry VI. Thus we find a great many fairs kept at these festivals of dedications,
as at Westminster on St. Peter's day, at London on St. Bartholomew's, Durham on St. Cuthbert's
day. But the great numbers of people being often the occasion of riots and disturbances, the
privilege of holding a fair was granted by royal charter. At first they were only allowed in
towns and places of strength, or where there was some bishop or governor of condition to keep
them in order. In process of time there were several circumstances of favour added, people
having the protection of a holiday, and being allowed freedom from arrests, upon the score
of any difference not arising upon the spot. They had likewise a jurisdiction allowed them
to do justice to those that came thither; and therefore the most inconsiderable fair with us
has, or had, a court belonging to it, which takes cognizance of all manner of causes and disorders
growing and committed upon the place, called pye powder, or pedes pulverizati. Some fairs are
free, others charged with tolls and impositions. At free fairs, traders, whether natives or
foreigners, are allowed to enter the kingdom, and are under the royal protection in coming
and returning. They and their agents, with their goods, also their persons and goods, are exempt
from all duties and impositions, tolls and servitudes; and such merchants going to or coming
from the fair cannot be arrested, or their goods stopped. The prince only has the power to
establish fairs of any kind. These fairs make a considerable article in the commerce of Europe,
especially those of the Mediterranean, or inland parts, as Germany. The most famous are those
of Frankfort and Leipsic; the fairs of Novi, in the Milanese; that of Riga, Arch-angel of St.
Germain, at Paris; of Lyons; of Guibray, in Normandy; and of Beauclaire, in Languedoc: those
of Porto-Bello, Vera Cruz, and the Havannah, are the most considerable in America.

HALBERT.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE VIRGINAL.

(For the Mirror.)

A rare and beautiful relic of the olden time was lately presented to the museum of the Northern
Institution, by William Mackintosh, Esq. of Milbank--an ancient virginal, which was in use
among our ancestors prior to the invention of the spinnet and harpsichord. Mary, Queen of Scots,
who delighted in music, in her moments of "joyeusitie" as John Knox phrases it, used to play
finely on the virginal; and her more fortunate rival, Queen Elizabeth, was so exquisite a performer
on the same instrument, that Melville says, on hearing her once play in her chamber, he was
irresistibly drawn into the room. The virginal now deposited in the museum formerly belonged
to a noble family in Inverness, and is considered to be the only one remaining in Scotland.
It is made of oak, inlaid with cedar, and richly ornamented with gold. The cover and sides
are beautifully painted with figures of birds, flowers, and leaves, the colours of which are
still comparatively fresh and undecayed. On one part of the lid is a grand procession of warriors,
whom a bevy of fair dames are propitiating by presents or offerings of wine and fruits. Altogether,
the virginal may be regarded as a fine specimen of art, and is doubly interesting as a memorial
of times long gone by.

W.G.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

HERSCHEL'S TELESCOPE.

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

Your correspondent, a Constant Reader, in No. 330 of the MIRROR, is informed that the identical
telescope which he mentions is now in the possession of Mr. J. Davies, optician, 101, High-street,
Mary-le-bone, where it may be seen in a finished and perfect state. It is reckoned the best
and most complete of its size in Europe.

It was ordered to be made for his late majesty George III. as a challenge against the late
Dr. Herschel's; but was prevented from being completed till some time after. The metals, 9-1/4
inches in diameter, having a diagonal eye-piece, four eye tubes of different magnifying powers,
and three small specula of various radii, were made by Mr. Watson.

J.D.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANCIENT ROMAN FESTIVALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

OCTOBER.

(For the Mirror.)

The Augustalia was a festival at Rome, in commemoration of the day on which Augustus returned
to Rome, after he had established peace over the different parts of the empire. It was first
established in the year of Rome 735.

The Fontinalia, or Fontanalia, was a religious feast, held among the Romans in honour of the
deities who presided over fountains or springs. Varro observes, that it was the custom to visit
the wells on those days, and to cast crowns into fountains. This festival was observed on the
13th of October.

The Armilustrum was a feast held on the 19th of October, wherein they sacrificed, armed at
all points, and with the sound of trumpets. The sacrifice was intended for the expiation of
the armies, and the prosperity of the arms of the people of Rome. This feast may be considered
as a kind of benediction of arms. It was first observed among the Athenians.

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ANECDOTE GALLERY.

LORD BYRON AT MISSOLONGHI.

[The Foreign Quarterly Review gives the following sketch as a "pendant to Mr. Pouqueville's
picture of the poet, given in a preceding page," and requoted by us in the last No. of the
MIRROR. It is from a History of Greece, by Rizo, a Wallachian sentimentalist of the first order,
and in enthusiasm and exuberance of style, it will perhaps compare with any previous sketches
of the late Lord Byron: but the romantic interest which Rizo has thrown about these "more last
words" will doubtless render them acceptable to our readers.]

For several years a man, a poet, excited the admiration of civilized people. His sublime genius
towered above the atmosphere, and penetrated, with a searching look, even into the deepest
abysses of the human heart. Envy, which could not reach the poet, attacked the man, and wounded
him cruelly; but, too great to defend, and too generous to revenge himself, he only sought
for elevated impressions, and "vivoit de grand sensations," (which we cannot translate), capable
of the most noble devotedness, and, persuaded that excellence is comprised in justice, he embraced
the cause of the Greeks. Still young, Byron had traversed Greece, properly so called, and described
the moral picture of its inhabitants. He quitted these countries, pitying in his verses the
misery of the Greeks, blaming their lethargy, and despising their stupid submission; so difficult
is it to know a nation by a rapid glance. What was the astonishment of the poet, when some
years later he saw these people, whom he had thought unworthy to bear the name of Greeks, rise
up with simultaneous eagerness, and declare, in the face of the world, that "they would again
become a nation." Byron hesitated at first; ancient prepossessions made him attribute this
rupture to a partial convulsion, the ultimate effort of a being ready to breathe the last sigh.
Soon new prodigies, brilliant exploits, and heroic constancy, which sustained itself in spite
of every opposition, proved to him that he had ill-judged this people, and excited him to repair
his error by the sacrifice of his fortune and life; he wished to concur in the work of regeneration.
From the shores of the beautiful Etruria he set sail for Greece, in the month of August, 1823.
He visited at first the seven Ionian Isles, where he sojourned some time, busied in concluding
the first Greek loan. The death of Marco Botzaris redoubled the enthusiasm of Byron, and perhaps
determined him to prefer the town of Missolonghi, which already showed for its glory the tombs
of Normann, Kyriakoulis, and Botzaris. Alas! that town was destined, four months later, to
reckon another mausoleum!

