FLORENTINE MOSAICS.

[Concluded.]

VI.

THE CARMINE.

The only part of this ancient church which escaped destruction by fire in 1771 was, most fortunately,
the famous Brancacci chapel. Here are the frescos by Masolino da Panicale, who died in the
early part of the fifteenth century,--the Preaching of Saint Peter, and the Healing of the
Sick. His scholar, Masaccio, (1402-1443,) continued the series, the completion of which was
entrusted to Filippino Lippi, son of Fra Filippo.

No one can doubt that the hearty determination evinced by Masolino and Masaccio to deal with
actual life, to grapple to their souls the visible forms of humanity, and to reproduce the
types afterwards in new, vivid, breathing combinations of dignity and intelligent action, must
have had an immense effect upon the course of Art. To judge by the few and somewhat injured
specimens of these masters which are accessible, it is obvious that they had much more to do
in forming the great schools of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, than a painter of such
delicate, but limited genius as that of Fra Angelico could possibly have. Certainly, the courage
and accuracy exhibited in the nude forms of Adam and Eve expelled from paradise, and the expressive
grace in the group of Saint Paul conversing with Saint Peter in prison, where so much knowledge
and power of action are combined with so much beauty, all show an immense advance over the
best works of the preceding three quarters of a century.

Besides the great intrinsic merits of these paintings, the Brancacci chapel is especially interesting
from the direct and unquestionable effect which it is known to have had upon younger painters.
Here Raphael and Michel Angelo, in their youth, and Benvenuto Cellini passed many hours, copying
and recopying what were then the first masterpieces of painting, the traces of which study
are distinctly visible in their later productions; and here, too, according to Cellini, the
famous punch in the nose befell Buonarotti, by which his well-known physiognomy acquired its
marked peculiarity. Torregiani, painter and sculptor of secondary importance, but a bully of
the first class,--a man who was in the habit of knocking about the artists whom he could not
equal, and of breaking both their models and their heads,--had been accustomed to copy in the
Brancacci chapel, among the rest. He had been much annoyed, according to his own account, by
Michel Angelo's habit of laughing at the efforts of artists inferior in skill to himself, and
had determined to punish him. One day, Buonarotti came into the chapel as usual, and whistled
and sneered at a copy which Torregiani was making. The aggrieved artist, a man of large proportions,
very truculent of aspect, with a loud voice and a savage frown, sprang upon his critic, and
dealt him such a blow upon the nose, that the bone and cartilage yielded under his hand, according
to his own account, as if they had been made of dough,--"come se fosse stato un cialdone."
This was when both were very young men; but Torregiani, when relating the story many years
afterwards, always congratulated himself that Buonarotti would bear the mark of the blow all
his life. It may be added, that the bully met a hard fate afterwards. Having executed a statue
in Spain for a grandee, he was very much outraged by receiving only thirty scudi as his reward,
and accordingly smashed the statue to pieces with a sledge-hammer. In revenge, the Spaniard
accused him of heresy, so that the unlucky artist was condemned to the flames by the Inquisition,
and only escaped that horrible death by starving himself in prison before the execution.

VII.

SANTA TRINITÀ.

In the chapel of the Sassetti, in this church, is a good set of frescos by Dominic Ghirlandaio,
representing passages from the life of Saint Francis. They are not so masterly as his compositions
in the Santa Maria Novella. Moreover, they are badly placed, badly lighted, and badly injured.
They are in a northwestern corner, where light never comes that comes to all. The dramatic
power and Flemish skill in portraiture of the man are, however, very visible, even in the darkness.
No painter of his century approached him in animated grouping and powerful physiognomizing.
Dignified, noble, powerful, and natural, he is the exact counterpart of Fra Angelico, among
the Quattrocentisti. Two great, distinct systems,--the shallow, shrinking, timid, but rapturously
devotional, piously sentimental school, of which Beato Angelico was facile princeps, painfully
adventuring out of the close atmosphere of the miniatori into the broader light and more gairish
colors of the actual, and falling back, hesitating and distrustful; and the hardy, healthy,
audacious naturalists, wreaking strong and warm human emotions upon vigorous expression and
confident attitude;--these two widely separated streams of Art, remote from each other in origin,
and fed by various rills, in their course through the century, were to meet in one ocean at
its close. This was then the fulness of perfection, the age of Angelo and Raphael, Leonardo
and Correggio.

VIII.

SAN MARCO.

Fra Beato Angelico, who was a brother of this Dominican house, has filled nearly the whole
monastery with the works of his hand. Considering the date of his birth, 1387, and his conventual
life, he was hardly less wonderful than his wonderful epoch. Here is the same convent, the
same city; while instead merely of the works of Cimabue, Giotto, and Orgagna, there are masterpieces
by all the painters who ever lived to study;--yet imagine the snuffy old monk who will show
you about the edifice, or any of his brethren, coming out with a series of masterpieces! One
might as well expect a new Savonarola, who was likewise a friar in this establishment, to preach
against Pio Nono, and to get himself burned in the Piazza for his pains.

In the old chapter-house is a very large, and for the angelic Frater a very hazardous performance,--a
Crucifixion. The heads here are full of feeling and feebleness, except those of Mary Mother
and Mary Magdalen, which are both very touching and tender. There is, however, an absolute
impotence to reproduce the actual, to deal with groups of humanity upon a liberal scale. There
is his usual want of discrimination, too, in physiognomy; for if the seraphic and intellectual
head of the penitent thief were transferred to the shoulders of the Saviour in exchange for
his own, no one could dispute that it would be an improvement.

Up stairs is a very sweet Annunciation. The subdued, demure, somewhat astonished joy of the
Virgin is poetically rendered, both in face and attitude, and the figure of the angel has much
grace. A small, but beautiful composition, the Coronation of the Virgin, is perhaps the most
impressive of the whole series.

Below is a series of frescos by a very second-rate artist, Poccetti. Among them is a portrait
of Savonarola; but as the reformer was burned half a century before Poccetti was born, it has
not even the merit of authenticity. It was from this house that Savonarola was taken to be
imprisoned and executed in 1498. There seems something unsatisfactory about Savonarola. One
naturally sympathizes with the bold denouncer of Alexander VI.; but there was a lack of benevolence
in his head and his heart. Without that anterior depression of the sinciput, he could hardly
have permitted two friends to walk into the fire in his stead, as they were about to do in
the stupendous and horrible farce enacted in the Piazza Gran Duca. There was no lack of self-esteem
either in the man or his head. Without it, he would scarcely have thought so highly of his
rather washy scheme for reorganizing the democratic government, and so very humbly of the genius
of Dante, Petrarch, and others, whose works he condemned to the flames. A fraternal regard,
too, for such great artists as Fra Angelico and Fra Bartolommeo,--both members of his own convent,
and the latter a personal friend,--might have prevented his organizing that famous holocaust
of paintings, that wretched iconoclasm, by which he signalized his brief period of popularity
and power. In weighing, gauging, and measuring such a man, one ought to remember, that if he
could have had his way and carried out all his schemes, he would have abolished Borgianism
certainly, and perhaps the papacy, but that he would have substituted the rhapsodical reign
of a single demagogue, perpetually seeing visions and dreaming dreams for the direction of
his fellow-citizens, who were all to be governed by the hallucinations of this puritan Mahomet.

IX.

THE MEDICI CHAPEL.

The famous cemetery of the Medici, the Sagrestia Nuova, is a ponderous and dismal toy. It is
a huge mass of expensive, solemn, and insipid magnificence, erected over the carcasses of as
contemptible a family as ever rioted above the earth, or rotted under it. The only man of the
race, Cosmo il Vecchio, who deserves any healthy admiration, although he was the real assassin
of Florentine and Italian freedom, and has thus earned the nickname of Pater Patriae, is not
buried here. The series of mighty dead begins with the infamous Cosmo, first grand duke, the
contemporary of Philip II. of Spain, and his counterpart in character and crime. Then there
is Ferdinando I., whose most signal achievement was not eating the poisoned pie prepared by
the fair hands of Bianca Capello. There are other Ferdinandos, and other Cosmos,--all grand-ducal
and pater-patrial, as Medici should be.

The chapel is a vast lump of Florentine mosaic, octagonal, a hundred feet or so in diameter,
and about twice as high. The cupola has some brand-new frescos, by Benvenuto. "Anthropophagi,
whose heads do grow beneath their shoulders," may enjoy these pictures upon domes. For common
mortals it is not agreeable to remain very long upside down, even to contemplate masterpieces,
which these certainly are not.

The walls of the chapel are all incrusted with gorgeous marbles and precious stones, from malachite,
porphyry, lapis-lazuli, chalcedony, agate, to all the finer and more expensive gems which shone
in Aaron's ephod. When one considers that an ear-ring or a brooch, half an inch long, of Florentine
mosaic work, costs five or six dollars, and that here is a great church of the same material
and workmanship as a breastpin, one may imagine it to have been somewhat expensive.

The Sagrestia Nuova was built by Michel Angelo, to hold his monuments to Lorenzo de' Medici,
duke of Urbino, and grandson of Lorenzo the Magnificent, and to Julian de' Medici, son of Lorenzo
Magnifico.

It is not edifying to think of the creative soul and plastic hands of Buonarotti employed in
rendering worship to such creatures. This Lorenzo is chiefly known as having married Madeleine
de Boulogne, and as having died, as well as his wife, of a nameless disorder, immediately after
they had engendered the renowned Catharine de' Medici, whose hideous life was worthy of its
corrupt and poisoned source.

Did Michel Angelo look upon his subject as a purely imaginary one? Surely he must have had
some definite form before his mental vision; for although sculpture cannot, like painting,
tell an elaborate story, still each figure must have a moral and a meaning, must show cause
for its existence, and indicate a possible function, or the mind of the spectator is left empty
and craving.

Here, at the tomb of Lorenzo, are three masterly figures. An heroic, martial, deeply contemplative
figure sits in grand repose. A statesman, a sage, a patriot, a warrior, with countenance immersed
in solemn thought, and head supported and partly hidden by his hand, is brooding over great
recollections and mighty deeds. Was this Lorenzo, the husband of Madeleine, the father of Catharine?
Certainly the mind at once dethrones him from his supremacy upon his own tomb, and substitutes
an Epaminondas, a Cromwell, a Washington,--what it wills. 'Tis a godlike apparition, and need
be called by no mortal name. We feel unwilling to invade the repose of that majestic reverie
by vulgar invocation. The hero, nameless as he must ever remain, sits there in no questionable
shape, nor can we penetrate the sanctuary of that marble soul. Till we can summon Michel, with
his chisel, to add the finishing strokes to the grave, silent face of the naked figure reclining
below the tomb, or to supply the lacking left hand to the colossal form of female beauty sitting
upon the opposite sepulchre, we must continue to burst in ignorance. Sooner shall the ponderous
marble jaws of the tomb open, that Lorenzo may come forth to claim his right to the trophy,
than any admirer of human genius will doubt that the shade of some real hero was present to
the mind's eye of the sculptor, when he tore these stately forms out of the enclosing rock.

A colossal hero sits, serene and solemn, upon a sepulchre. Beneath him recline two vast mourning
figures, one of each sex. One longs to challenge converse with the male figure, with the unfinished
Sphinx-like face, who is stretched there at his harmonious length, like an ancient river-god
without his urn. There is nothing appalling or chilling in his expression, nor does he seem
to mourn without hope. 'Tis a stately recumbent figure, of wonderful anatomy, without any exaggeration
of muscle, and, accordingly, his name is----Twilight!

Why Twilight should grieve at the tomb of Lorenzo, grandson of Lorenzo Magnifico, any more
than the grandfather would have done, does not seem very clear, even to Twilight himself, who
seems, after all, in a very crepuscular state upon the subject. The mistiness is much aided
by the glimmering expression of his half-finished features.

But if Twilight should be pensive at the demise of Lorenzo, is there any reason why Aurora
should weep outright upon the same occasion? This Aurora, however, weeping and stately, all
nobleness and all tears, is a magnificent creation, fashioned with the audacious accuracy which
has been granted to few modern sculptors. The figure and face are most beautiful, and rise
above all puny criticism; and as one looks upon that sublime and wailing form, that noble and
nameless child of a divine genius, the flippant question dies on the lip, and we seek not to
disturb that passionate and beautiful image of woman's grief by idle curiosity or useless speculation.

The monument, upon the opposite side, to Julian, third son of Lorenzo Magnifico, is of very
much the same character. Here are also two mourning figures. One is a sleeping and wonderfully
beautiful female shape, colossal, in a position less adapted to repose than to the display
of the sculptor's power and her own perfections. This is Night. A stupendously sculptured male
figure, in a reclining attitude, and exhibiting, I suppose, as much learning in his torso as
does the famous figure in the Elgin marbles, strikes one as the most triumphant statue of modern
times.

The figure of Julian is not agreeable. The neck, long and twisted, suggests an heroic ostrich
in a Roman breastplate. The attitude, too, is ungraceful. The hero sits with his knees projecting
beyond the perpendicular, so that his legs seem to be doubling under him, a position deficient
in grace and dignity.

