PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 99.

December 13, 1890.

MR. PUNCH'S PRIZE NOVELS.

NO. IX.--THE CURSE OF COGNAC.

    (By WATER DECANT, Author of "Chaplin off his Feet," "All
    Sorts of Editions for Men," "The Nuns in Dilemma," "The
    Cream he Tried," "Blue-the-Money Naughty-boy," "The Silver
    Gutter-Snipe," "All for a Farden Fare," "The Roley Hose,"
    "Caramel of Stickinesse," &c., &c., &c.)

    [Of this story the Author writes to us as follows:--"I can
    honestly recommend it, as calculated to lower the exaggerated
    cheerfulness which is apt to prevail at Christmas time. I
    consider it, therefore, to be eminently suited for a Christmas
    Annual. Families are advised to read it in detachments of four
    or five at a time. Married men who owe their wives' mothers
    a grudge should lock them into a bare room, with a guttering
    candle and this story. Death will be certain and not painless.
    I've got one or two rods in pickle for the publishers. You
    wait and see.--W.D."]

CHAPTER I.

GEORGE GINSLING was alone in his College-rooms at Cambridge. His friends had just left him.
They were quite the tip-top set in Christ's College, and the ashes of the cigarettes they had
been smoking lay about the rich Axminster carpet. They had been talking about many things,
as is the wont of young men, and one of them had particularly bothered GEORGE by asking him
why he had refused a seat in the University Trial Eights after rowing No. 5 in his College
boat. GEORGE had no answer ready, and had replied angrily. Now, he thought of many answers.
This made him nervous. He paced quickly up and down the deserted room, sipping his seventh
tumbler of brandy, as he walked. It was his invariable custom to drink seven tumblers of neat
brandy every night to steady himself, and his College career had, in consequence, been quite
unexceptionable up to the present moment. He used playfully to remind his Dean of PORSON's
drunken epigram, and the good man always accepted this as an excuse for any false quantities
in GEORGE's Greek Iambics. But to-night, as I have said, GEORGE was nervous with a strange
nervousness, and he, therefore, went to bed, having previously blown out his candle and placed
his Waterbury watch under his pillow, on the top of which sat a Devil wearing a thick jersey
worked with large green spots on a yellow ground.

CHAPTER II.

Now this Devil was a Water-Devil of the most pronounced type. His head-quarters were on the
Thames at Barking, where there is a sewage outfall, and he had lately established a branch-office
on the Cam, where he did a considerable business.

Occasionally, he would run down to Cambridge himself, to consult with his manager, and on these
occasions he would indulge his playful humour by going out at night and sitting on the pillows
of Undergraduates.

This was one of his nights out, and he had chosen GEORGE GINSLING's pillow as his seat.

       *       *       *       *       *

GEORGE woke up with a start. What was this feeling in his throat? Had he swallowed his blanket,
or his cocoa-nut matting? No, they were still in their respective places. He tore out his tongue
and his tonsils, and examined them. They were on fire. This puzzled him. He replaced them.
As he did so, a shower of red-hot coppers fell from his mouth on to his feet. The agony was
awful. He howled, and danced about the room. Then he dashed at the whiskey, but the bottle
ducked as he approached, and he failed to tackle it. Poor GEORGE, you see, was a rowing-man,
not a football-player. Then he knew what he wanted. In his keeping-room were six carafes, full
of Cambridge water, and a dozen bottles of Hunyádi Janos. He rushed in, and hurled himself
upon the bottles with all his weight. The crash was dreadful. The foreign bottles, being poor,
frail things, broke at once. He lapped up the liquid like a thirsty dog. The carafes survived.
He crammed them with their awful contents, one after another, down his throat. Then he returned
to his bed-room, seized his jug, and emptied it at one gulp. His bath was full. He lifted it
in one hand, and drained it as dry as a University sermon. The thirst compelled him--drove
him--made him--urged him--lashed him--forced him--shoved him--goaded him--to drink, drink,
drink water, water, water! At last he was appeased. He had cried bitterly, and drunk up all
his tears. He fell back on his bed, and slept for twenty-four hours, and the Devil went out
and gave his gyp, STARLING, a complete set of instructions for use in case of flood.

CHAPTER III.

STARLING was a pale, greasy man. He was a devil of a gyp. He went into GEORGE's bed-room and
shook his master by the shoulder. GEORGE woke up.

"Bring me the College pump," he said. "I must have it. No, stay," he continued, as STARLING
prepared to execute his orders, "a hair of the dog--bring it, quick, quick!"

STARLING gave him three. He always carried them about with him in case of accidents. GEORGE
devoured them eagerly, recklessly. Then with a deep sigh of relief, he went stark staring mad,
and bit STARLING in the fleshy part of the thigh, after which he fell fast asleep again. On
awaking, he took his name off the College books, gave STARLING a cheque for £5000, broke off
his engagement, but forgot to post the letter, and consulted a Doctor.

"What you want," said the Doctor, "is to be shut up for a year in the tap-room of a public-house.
No water, only spirits. That must cure you."

So GEORGE ordered STARLING to hire a public-house in a populous district. When this was done,
he went and lived there. But you scarcely need to be told that STARLING had not carried out
his orders. How could he be expected to do that? Only fifty-six pages of my book had been written,
and even publishers--the most abandoned people on the face of the earth--know that that amount
won't make a Christmas Annual. So STARLING hired a Temperance Hotel. As I have said, he was
a devil of a gyp.

CHAPTER IV.

The fact was this. One of GEORGE's great-great uncles had held a commission in the Blue Ribbon
Army. GEORGE remembered this too late. The offer of a seat in the University Trial Eights must
have suggested the blue ribbon which the University Crew wear on their straw hats. Thus the
diabolical forces of heredity were roused to fever-heat, and the great-great uncle, with his
blue ribbon, whose photograph hung in GEORGE's home over the parlour mantelpiece, became a
living force in GEORGE's brain.

GEORGE GINSLING went and lived in a suburban neighbourhood. It was useless. He married a sweet
girl with various spiteful relations. In vain. He changed his name to PUMPDRY, and conducted
a local newspaper. Profitless striving. STARLING was always at hand, always ready with the
patent filter, and as punctual in his appearances as the washing-bill or the East wind. I repeat,
he was a devil of a gyp.

CHAPTER V.

They found GEORGE GINSLING feet uppermost in six inches of water in the Daffodil Road reservoir.
It was a large reservoir, and had been quite full before GEORGE began upon it. This was his
record drink, and it killed him. His last words were, "If I had stuck to whiskey, this would
never have happened."

THE END.

       *       *       *       *       *

