Transcriber's Note: Except for footnote references, all brackets are in the original text.
Material added by the transcriber is in {braces}. Typographical errors are listed at the end
of the text.}

           A SIXTH-CENTURY FRAGMENT

                    of the

                  LETTERS OF
               PLINY THE YOUNGER

      A Study of Six Leaves of an Uncial
            Manuscript Preserved in
          the Pierpont Morgan Library
                   New York

                      by

                  E. A. LOWE

Associate of the Carnegie Institution of Washington
   Sandars Reader at Cambridge University (1914)
   Lecturer in Palaeography at Oxford University

                      and

                  E. K. RAND

    Professor of Latin in Harvard University

               Published by the
      CARNEGIE INSTITUTION OF WASHINGTON
               Washington, 1922

      CARNEGIE INSTITUTION OF WASHINGTON

              Publication No. 304

             The University Press
               CAMBRIDGE, MASS.
                   U. S. A.

                PREFATORY NOTE.

The Pierpont Morgan Library, itself a work of art, contains masterpieces of painting and sculpture,
rare books, and illuminated manuscripts. Scholars generally are perhaps not aware that it also
possesses the oldest Latin manuscripts in America, including several that even the greatest
European libraries would be proud to own. The collection is also admirably representative of
the development of script throughout the Middle Ages. It comprises specimens of the uncial
hand, the half-uncial, the Merovingian minuscule of the Luxeuil type, the script of the famous
school of Tours, the St. Gall type, the Irish and Visigothic hands, and the Beneventan and
Anglo-Saxon scripts.

Among the oldest manuscripts of the library, in fact the oldest, is a hitherto unnoticed fragment
of great significance not only to palaeographers, but to all students of the classics. It consists
of six leaves of an early sixth-century manuscript of the Letters of the younger Pliny. This
new witness to the text, older by three centuries than the oldest codex heretofore used by
any modern editor, has reappeared in this unexpected quarter, after centuries of wandering
and hiding. The fragment was bought by the late J. Pierpont Morgan in Rome, in December 1910,
from the art dealer Imbert; he had obtained it from De Marinis, of Florence, who had it from
the heirs of the Marquis Taccone, of Naples. Nothing is known of the rest of the manuscript.

The present writers had the good fortune to visit the Pierpont Morgan Library in 1915. One
of the first manuscripts put into their hands was this early sixth-century fragment of Pliny’s
Letters, which forms the subject of the following pages. Having received permission to study
the manuscript and publish results, they lost no time in acquainting classical scholars with
this important find. In December of the same year, at the joint meeting of the American Archaeological
and Philological Associations, held at Princeton University, two papers were read, one concerning
the palaeographical, the other the textual, importance of the fragment. The two studies which
follow, Part I by Doctor Lowe, Part II by Professor Rand, are an elaboration of the views presented
at the meeting. Some months after the present volume was in the form of page-proof, Professor
E.T. Merrill’s long-expected edition of Pliny’s Letters appeared (Teubner, Leipsic, 1922).
We regret that we could not avail ourselves of it in time to introduce certain changes. The
reader will still find Pliny cited by the pages of Keil, and in general he should regard the
date of our production as 1921 rather than 1922.

The writers wish to express their gratitude for the privilege of visiting the Pierpont Morgan
Library and making full use of its facilities. For permission to publish the manuscript they
are indebted to the generous interest of Mr. J. Pierpont Morgan. They also desire to make cordial
acknowledgment of the unfailing courtesy and helpfulness of the Librarian, Miss Belle da Costa
Greene, and her assistant, Miss Ada Thurston. Lastly, the writers wish to thank the Carnegie
Institution of Washington for accepting their joint study for publication and for their liberality
in permitting them to give all the facsimiles necessary to illustrate the discussion.

    E. K. RAND.
    E. A. LOWE.

                   CONTENTS.

Part I. THE PALAEOGRAPHY OF THE MORGAN FRAGMENT. By E. A. Lowe.

Description of the Fragment
  Contents, size, vellum, binding
  Ruling
  Relation of the six leaves to the rest of the manuscript
  Original size of the manuscript
  Disposition
  Ornamentation
  Corrections
  Syllabification
  Orthography
  Abbreviations
  Authenticity of the six leaves
  Archetype

The Date and Later History of the Manuscript
  On the dating of uncial manuscripts
  Dated uncial manuscripts
  Oldest group of uncial manuscripts
  Characteristics of the oldest uncial manuscripts
  Date of the Morgan manuscript
  Later history of the Morgan manuscript
  Conclusion

Transcription

Part II. THE TEXT OF THE MORGAN FRAGMENT. By E. K. Rand.

The Morgan Fragment and Aldus’s Ancient Codex Parisinus
  The Codex Parisinus
  The Bodleian volume
  The Morgan fragment possibly a part of the lost Parisinus
  The script
  Provenience and contents
  The text closely related to that of Aldus
  Editorial methods of Aldus

Relation of the Morgan Fragment to the Other Manuscripts of the Letters
  Classes of the manuscripts
  The early editions
  Π a member of Class I
  Π the direct ancestor of BF with probably a copy intervening
  The probable stemma
  Further consideration of the external history of P, Π, and B
  Evidence from the portions of BF outside the text of Π

Editorial Methods of Aldus
  Aldus’s methods; his basic text
  The variants of Budaeus in the Bodleian volume
  Aldus and Budaeus compared
  The latest criticism of Aldus
  Aldus’s methods in the newly discovered parts of Books VIII, IX, and X
  The Morgan fragment the best criterion of Aldus
  Conclusion

Description of Plates

                    PART I.

        THE PALAEOGRAPHY OF THE MORGAN
                   FRAGMENT

                      by

                  E. A. LOWE

   THE PALAEOGRAPHY OF THE MORGAN FRAGMENT.

          DESCRIPTION OF THE FRAGMENT.

[Sidenote: Contents size vellum binding]

The Morgan fragment of Pliny the Younger contains the end of Book II and the beginning of Book
III of the Letters (II, xx. 13-III, v. 4). The fragment consists of six vellum leaves, or twelve
pages, which apparently formed part of a gathering or quire of the original volume.

The leaves measure 11-3/8 by 7 inches (286 x 180 millimeters); the written space measures 7-1/4
by 4-3/8 inches (175 x 114 millimeters); outer margin, 1-7/8 inches (50 millimeters); inner,
3/4 inch (18 millimeters); upper margin, 1-3/4 inches (45 millimeters); lower, 2-1/4 inches
(60 millimeters).

The vellum is well prepared and of medium thickness. The leaves are bound in a modern pliable
vellum binding with three blank vellum fly-leaves in front and seven in back, all modern. On
the inside of the front cover is the book-plate of John Pierpont Morgan, showing the Morgan
arms with the device: Onward and Upward. Under the book-plate is the press-mark M.462.

[Sidenote: Ruling]

There are twenty-seven horizontal lines to a page and two vertical bounding lines. The lines
were ruled with a hard point on the flesh side, each opened sheet being ruled separately: 48v
and 53r, 49r and 52v, 50v and 51r. The horizontal lines were guided by knife-slits made in
the outside margins quite close to the text space; the two vertical lines were guided by two
slits in the upper margin and two in the lower. The horizontal lines were drawn across the
open sheets and extended occasionally beyond the slits, more often just beyond the perpendicular
bounding lines. The written space was kept inside the vertical bounding lines except for the
initial letter of each epistle; the first letter of the address and the first letter of the
epistle proper projected into the left margin. Here and there the scribe transgressed beyond
the bounding line. On the whole, however, he observed the limits and seemed to prefer to leave
a blank before the bounding line rather than to crowd the syllable into the space or go beyond
the vertical line.

[Sidenote: Relation of the six leaves to the rest of the manuscript]

One might suppose that the six leaves once formed a complete gathering of the original book,
especially as the first and last pages, folios 48r and 53v have a darker appearance, as though
they had been the outside leaves of a gathering that had been affected by exposure. But this
darker appearance is sufficiently accounted for by the fact that both pages are on the hair
side of the parchment, and the hair side is always darker than the flesh side. Quires of six
leaves or trinions are not unknown. Examples of them may be found in our oldest manuscripts.
But they are the exception.[1] The customary quire is a gathering of eight leaves, forming
a quaternion proper. It would be natural, therefore, to suppose that our fragment did not constitute
a complete gathering in itself but formed part of a quaternion. The supposition is confirmed
by the following considerations:

  [Footnote 1: For example, in the fifth-century manuscript of Livy
  in Paris (MS. lat. 5730) the forty-third and forty-fifth quires are
  composed of six leaves, while the rest are all quires of eight.]

In the first place, if our six leaves were once a part of a quaternion, the two leaves needed
to complete them must have formed the outside sheet, since our fragment furnishes a continuous
text without any lacuna whatever. Now, in the formation of quires, sheets were so arranged
that hair side faced hair side, and flesh side flesh side. This arrangement is dictated by
a sense of uniformity. As the hair side is usually much darker than the flesh side the juxtaposition
of hair and flesh sides would offend the eye. So, in the case of our six leaves, folios 48v
and 53r, presenting the flesh side, face folios 49r and 52v likewise on the flesh side; and
folios 49v and 52r presenting the hair side, face folios 50r and 51v likewise on the hair side.
The inside pages 50v and 51r which face each other, are both flesh side, and the outside pages
48r and 53v are both hair side, as may be seen from the accompanying diagram. Now, it was by
far the more usual practice in our oldest uncial manuscripts to have the flesh side on the
outside of the quire.[2] And as our fragment belongs to the oldest class of uncial manuscripts,
the manner of arranging the sheets of quires seems to favor the supposition that two outside
leaves are missing. The hypothesis is, moreover, strengthened by another consideration. According
to the foliation supplied by the fifteenth-century Arabic numerals, the leaf which must have
followed our fragment bore the number 54, the leaf preceding it having the number 47. If we
assume that our fragment was a complete gathering, we are obliged to explain why the next gathering
began on a leaf bearing an even number (54), which is abnormal. We do not have to contend with
this difficulty if we assume that folios 47 and 54 formed the outside sheet of our fragment,
for six quires of eight leaves and one of six would give precisely 54 leaves. It seems, therefore,
reasonable to assume that our fragment is not a complete unit, but formed part of a quaternion,
the outside sheet of which is missing.

  [Footnote 2: In an examination of all the uncial manuscripts in the
  Bibliothèque Nationale of Paris, it was found that out of twenty
  manuscripts that may be ascribed to the fifth and sixth centuries
  only two had the hair side on the outside of the quires. Out of
  thirty written approximately between A.D. 600 and 800, about half
  showed the same practice, the other half having the hair side
  outside. Thus the practice of our oldest Latin scribes agrees with
  that of the Greek: see C.R. Gregory, “Les cahiers des manuscrits
  grecs” in Comptes Rendus de l’Academie des Inscriptions et
  Belles-Lettres (1885), p. 261. I am informed by Professor Hyvernat,
  of the Catholic University of Washington, that the same custom is
  observed by Coptic scribes.]

[Sidenote: Original size of the manuscript]

In the fifteenth century, as the previous demonstration has made clear, our fragment was preceded
by 47 leaves that are missing to-day. With this clue in our possession it can be demonstrated
that the manuscript began with the first book of the Letters. We start with the fact that not
all the 47 folios (or 94 pages) which preceded our six leaves were devoted to the text of the
Letters. For, from the contents of our six leaves we know that each book must have been preceded
by an index of addresses and first lines. The indices for Books I and II, if arranged in general
like that of Book III, must have occupied four pages.[3] We also learn from our fragment that
space must be allowed for a colophon at the end of each book. One page for the colophons of
Books I and II is a reasonable allowance. Accordingly it follows that out of the 94 pages preceding
our fragment 5 were not devoted to text, or in other words that only 89 pages were thus devoted.

  [Footnote 3: The confused arrangement of the indices for Books I and
  II in the Codex Bellovacensis may well have been found in the
  manuscript of which the Morgan fragment is a part. The space
  required for the indices, however, would not have greatly differed
  from that taken by the index of Book III in both the Morgan fragment
  and the Codex Bellovacensis.]

Now, if we compare pages in our manuscript with pages of a printed text we find that the average
page in our manuscript corresponds to about 19 lines of the Teubner edition of 1912. If we
multiply 89 by 19 we get 1691. This number of lines of the size of the Teubner edition should,
if our calculation be correct, contain the text of the Letters preceding our fragment. The
average page of the Teubner edition of 1912 of the part which interests us contains a little
over 29 lines. If we divide 1691 by 29 we get 58.3. Just 58 pages of Teubner text are occupied
by the 47 leaves which preceded our fragment. So close a conformity is sufficient to prove
our point. We have possibly allowed too much space for indices and colophons, especially if
the former covered less ground for Books I and II than for Book III. Further, owing to the
abbreviation of que and bus, and particularly of official titles, we can not expect a closer
agreement.

It is not worth while to attempt a more elaborate calculation. With the edges matching so nearly,
it is obvious that the original manuscript as known and used in the fifteenth century could
not have contained some other work, however brief, before Book I of Pliny’s Letters. If the
manuscript contained the entire ten books it consisted of about 260 leaves. This sum is obtained
by counting the number of lines in the Teubner edition of 1912, dividing this sum by 19, and
adding thereto pages for colophons and indices. It would be too bold to suppose that this calculation
necessarily gives us the original size of the manuscript, since the manuscript may have had
less than ten books, or it may, on the other hand, have had other works. But if it contained
only the ten books of the Letters, then 260 folios is an approximately correct estimate of
its size.

It is hard to believe that only six leaves of the original manuscript have escaped destruction.
The fact that the outside sheet (foll. 48r and 53v) is not much worn nor badly soiled suggests
that the gathering of six leaves must have been torn from the manuscript not so very long ago
and that the remaining portions may some day be found.

[Sidenote: Disposition]

The pages in our manuscript are written in long lines,[4] in scriptura continua, with hardly
any punctuation.

  [Footnote 4: Many of our oldest Latin manuscripts have two and even
  three columns on a page, a practice evidently taken over from the
  roll. But very ancient manuscripts are not wanting which are written
  in long lines, e.g., the Codex Vindobonensis of Livy, the Codex
  Bobiensis of the Gospels, or the manuscript of Pliny’s Natural
  History preserved at St. Paul in Carinthia.]

Each page begins with a large letter, even though that letter occur in the body of a word (cf.
foll. 48r, 51v, 52r).[5]

  [Footnote 5: This is an ear-mark of great antiquity. It is found,
  for example, in the Berlin and Vatican Schedae Vergilianae in square
  capitals (Berlin lat. 2º 416 and Rome Vatic. lat. 3256 reproduced in
  Zangemeister and Wattenbach’s Exempla Codicum Latinorum, etc., pl.
  14, and in Steffens, Lateinische Paläographie², pl. 12b), in the
  Vienna, Paris, and Lateran manuscripts of Livy, in the Codex
  Corbeiensis of the Gospels, and here and there in the palimpsest
  manuscript of Cicero’s De Re Publica and in other manuscripts.]

Each epistle begins with a large letter. The line containing the address which precedes each
epistle also begins with a large letter. In both cases the large letter projects into the left
margin.

The running title at the top of each page is in small rustic capitals.[6] On the verso of each
folio stands the word EPISTVLARVM; on the recto of the following folio stands the number of
the book, e.g., LIB. II, LIB. III.

   [Footnote 6: In many of our oldest manuscripts uncials are employed.
   The Pliny palimpsest of St. Paul in Carinthia agrees with our
   manuscript in using rustic capitals. For facsimiles see J. Sillig,
   C. Plini Secundi Naturalis Historiae, Libri XXXVI, Vol. VI, Gotha
   1855, and Chatelain, Paléographie des Classiques Latins, pl.
   CXXXVI.]

To judge by our fragment, each book was preceded by an index of addresses and initial lines
written in alternating lines of black and red uncials. Alternating lines of black and red rustic
capitals of a large size were used in the colophon.[7]

  [Footnote 7: In this respect, too, the Pliny palimpsest of St.
  Paul in Carinthia agrees with our fragment. Most of the oldest
  manuscripts, however, have the colophon in the same type of writing
  as the text.]

[Sidenote: Ornamentation]

As in all our oldest Latin manuscripts, the ornamentation is of the simplest kind. Such as
it is, it is mostly found at the end and beginning of books. In our case, the colophon is enclosed
between two scrolls of vine-tendrils terminating in an ivy-leaf at both ends. The lettering
in the colophon and in the running title is set off by means of ticking above and below the line.

Red is used for decorative purposes in the middle line of the colophon, in the scroll of vine-tendrils,
in the ticking, and in the border at the end of the Index on fol. 49. Red was also used, to
judge by our fragment, in the first three lines of a new book,[8] in the addresses in the Index,
and in the addresses preceding each letter.

  [Footnote 8: This is also the case in the Paris manuscript of Livy
  of the fifth century, in the Codex Bezae of the Gospels (published
  in facsimile by the University of Cambridge in 1899), in the Pliny
  palimpsest of St. Paul in Carinthia, and in many other manuscripts
  of the oldest type.]

[Sidenote: Corrections]

The original scribe made a number of corrections. The omitted line of the Index on fol. 49
was added between the lines, probably by the scribe himself, using a finer pen; likewise the
omitted line on fol. 52v, lines 7-8. A number of slight corrections come either from the scribe
or from a contemporary reader; the others are by a somewhat later hand, which is probably not
more recent than the seventh century.[9] The method of correcting varies. As a rule, the correct
letter is added above the line over the wrong letter; occasionally it is written over an erasure.
An omitted letter is also added above the line over the space where it should be inserted.
Deletion of single letters is indicated by a dot placed over the letter and a horizontal or
an oblique line drawn through it. This double use of expunction and cancellation is not uncommon
in our oldest manuscripts. For details on the subject of corrections, see the notes on pp. 23-34.

  [Footnote 9: The strokes over the two consecutive i’s on fol.
  53v, l. 23, were made by a hand that can hardly be older than the
  thirteenth century.]

There is a ninth-century addition on fol. 53 and one of the fifteenth century on fol. 51. On
fol. 49, in the upper margin, a fifteenth-century hand using a stilus or hard point scribbled
a few words, now difficult to decipher.[10] Presumably the same hand drew a bearded head with
a halo. Another relatively recent hand, using lead, wrote in the left margin of fol. 53v the
monogram QR[11] and the roman numerals i, ii, iii under one another. These numerals, as Professor
Rand correctly saw, refer to the works of Pliny the Elder enumerated in the text. Further activity
by this hand, the date of which it is impossible to determine, may be seen, for example, on
fol. 49v, ll. 8, 10, 15; fol. 52, ll. 4, 10, 13, 21, 22; fol. 53, ll. 12, 15, 16, 17, 20, 27;
fol. 53v, ll. 5, 10, 15.

  [Footnote 10: I venture to read dominus meus ... in te deus.

  [Footnote 11: This doubtless stands for Quaere (= “investigate”),
  a frequent marginal note in manuscripts of all ages. A number of
  instances of Q for quaere are given by A.C. Clark, The Descent
  of Manuscripts, Oxford 1918, p. 35.]

[Sidenote: Syllabification]

Syllables are divided after a vowel or diphthong except where such a division involves beginning
the next syllable with a group of consonants.[12] In that case the consonants are distributed
between the two syllables, one consonant going with one syllable and the other with the following,
except when the group contains more than two successive consonants, in which case the first
consonant goes with the first syllable, the rest with the following syllable. That the scribe
is controlled by this mechanical rule and not by considerations of pronunciation is obvious
from the division SAN|CTISSIMUM and other examples found below. The method followed by him
is made amply clear by the examples which occur in our twelve pages:[13]

fo. 48r, line  1, con-suleret
               2, sescen-ties
               3, ex-ta
               7, fal-si

fo. 49v, line  3, spu-rinnam
               5, senesce-re
               7, distin-ctius
              12, se-nibus
              13, con-ueniunt
              15, spurin-na
              18, circum-agit
              20, mi-lia
              24, prae-sentibus
              25, grauan-tur

fo. 50r, line  1, singu-laris
               4, an-tiquitatis
               5, au-dias
               9, ite-rum
              11, scri-bit
              12, ly-rica
              15, scri-bentis
              17, octa-ua
              19, uehe-menter
              20, exer-citationis
              21, se-nectute
              22, paulis-per
              23, le-gentem

fo. 50v, line  2, de-lectatur
               3, co-moedis
               4, uolupta-tes
               5, ali-quid
               6, lon-gum
              11, senec-tut
              12, uo-to
              13, ingres-surus
              14, ae-tatis
              15, in-terim
              16, ho-rum
              20, re-xit
              21, me-ruit
              22, eun-dem
              25, epis-tulam

fo. 51r, line  2, mi-hi
               4, afria-nus
               6, facultati-bus
               7, super-sunt
               8, gra-uitate
               9, consi-lio
              10, ut-or
              13, ar-dentius
              23, con-feras
              24, habe-bis
              27, concu-piscat

fo. 51v, line  3, san-ctissimum
               5, memo-riam
              10, pater-nus
              11, contige-rit
              12, lau-de
              14, hones-tis
              15, refe-rat
              17, contuber-nium
              21, circumspi-ciendus
              22, scho-lae
              24, nos-tro
              27, praecep-tor

fo. 52r, line  2, demon-strare
               5, iudi-cio
               6, gra-uis
               8, quan-tum
               9, cre-dere
              12, mag-nasque
              13, ge-nitore
              16, nes[cis]-se
              19, nomi-na
              20, fauen-tibus
              23, dis-citur

fo. 52v, line  1, uidean-tur
               3, con-silium
               5, concu-pisco
               6, pecu-nia
               7, excucuris-sem
              10, se-natu
              12, ne-cessitatibus
              19, postulaue-runt
              21, bae-bium
              23, clari-sima
              25, in-quam
              26, excusa-tionis

fo. 53r, line  1, com (or con)-pulit
               5, ueni-ebat
               7, iniu-rias
               8, ex-secutos
              10, prae-terea
              12, aduoca-tione
              13, con-seruandum
              15, com-paratum
              16, sub-uertas
              17, cumu-les
              18, obliga-ti
              23, tris-tissimum

fo. 53v, line  2, facili-orem
               3, si-quis
               5, offi-ciorum
               7, praepara-tur
               8, super-est
              10, sim-plicitas
              11, compro-bantis
              14, diligen-ter
              20, cog-nitio
              22, milita-ret
              26, exsol-uit

  [Footnote 12: Such a division as ut|or on fol. 7, l. 10, is due
  entirely to thoughtless copying. The scribe probably took ut for a
  word.]

  [Footnote 13: For further details on syllabification in our oldest
  Latin manuscripts, see Th. Mommsen, “Livii Codex Veronensis,” in
  Abhandlungen der k. Akad. d. Wiss. zu Berlin, phil. hist. Cl.
  (1868), p. 163, n. 2, and pp. 165-6; Mommsen-Studemund, Analecta
  Liviana (Leipsic 1873), p. 3; Brandt, “Der St. Galler Palimpsest,”
  in Sitzungsberichte der phil. hist. Cl. der k. Akad. der Wiss. in
  Wien, CVIII (1885), pp. 245-6; L. Traube, “Palaeographische
  Forschungen IV,” in Abhandlungen d. h. t. Cl. d. k. Bayer. Akad. d.
  Wiss. XXIV. 1 (1906), p. 27; A.W. Van Buren, “The Palimpsest of
  Cicero’s De Re Publica,” in Archaeological Institute of America,
  Supplementary Papers of the American School of Classical Studies in
  Rome, ii (1908), pp. 89 sqq.; C. Wessely, in his preface to the
  facsimile edition of the Vienna Livy (MS. lat. 15), published in the
  Leyden series, Codices graeci et latini, etc., T. XI. See also
  W.G. Hale, “Syllabification in Roman speech,” in Harvard Studies of
  Classical Philology, VII (1896), pp. 249-71, and W. Dennison,
  “Syllabification in Latin Inscriptions,” in Classical Philology, I
  (1906), pp. 47-68.]

[Sidenote: Orthography]

The spelling found in our six leaves is remarkably correct. It compares favorably with the
best spelling encountered in our oldest Latin manuscripts of the fourth and fifth centuries.
The diphthong ae is regularly distinguished from e. The interchange of b and u, d and t, o
and u, so common in later manuscripts, is rare here: the confusion between b and u occurs once
(comprouasse, fo. 52v, l. 1); the omission of h occurs once (pulcritudo, fo. 51v, l. 26); the
use of k for c occurs twice (karet, fo. 51r, l. 14, and karitas, fo. 52r, l. 5). The scribe
uses the correct forms in adolescet (fo. 51v, l. 14) and adulescenti (fo. 51v, l. 24); he writes
auonculi (fo. 53v, l. 15), exsistat (fo. 51v, l. 9), and exsecutos (fo. 53r, l. 8). In the
case of composite words he has the assimilated form in some, and in others the unassimilated
form, as the following examples go to show:

fo. 48r, line  3, inpleturus    fo. 48r, line  7, improbissimum
    49r,     13a, adnotasse         48v,      23, composuisse
              19, adsumo            50r,       1, ascendit
    50r,       1, adsumit                      6, imbuare
              27, adponitur                   22, accubat
    50v,       3, adficitur         51r,       2, optulissem
    51r,      19, adstruere                    3, suppeteret
              21, adstruere                   16, ascendere
              26, adpetat           51v,      16, accipiat
    51v,       9, exsistat          52v,       1, comprouasse
              12, inlustri                    11, collegae
              14, inbutus                     17, impetrassent
    52r,      18, admonebitur       53r,       8, accusationibus
    52v,}      20, inplorantes                 15, comparatum
              22, adlegantes        53v,       1, computabam
              24, adsensio                     5, accusare
              27, adtulisse                   11, comprobantis
    53r,       8, exsecutos                   23, composuit

[Sidenote: Abbreviations]

Very few abbreviated words occur in our twelve pages. Those that are found are subject to strict
rules. What is true of the twelve pages was doubtless true of the entire manuscript, inasmuch
as the sparing use of abbreviations in conformity with certain definite rules is a characteristic
of all our oldest manuscripts.[14] The abbreviations found in our fragment may conveniently
be grouped as follows:

  [Footnote 14: That is, manuscripts written before the eighth
  century. The number of abbreviations increases considerably
  during the eighth century. Previously the only symbols found in
  calligraphic majuscule manuscripts are the “Nomina Sacra” (deus,
  dominus, Iesus, Christus, spiritus, sanctus), which
  constantly occur in Christian literature, and such suspensions as
  are met with in our fragment. A familiar exception is the manuscript
  of Gaius, preserved in the Chapter library of Verona, MS. xv (13).
  This is full of abbreviations not found in contemporary manuscripts
  containing purely literary or religious texts. Cf. W. Studemund,
  Gaii Institutionum Commentarii Quattuor, etc., Leipsic 1874; and
  F. Steffens, Lateinische Paläographie², pl. 18 (pl. 8 of the
  Supplement). The Oxyrhynchus papyrus of Cicero’s speeches is
  non-calligraphic and therefore not subject to the rule governing
  calligraphic products. The same is true of marginal notes to
  calligraphic texts. See W.M. Lindsay, Notae Latinae, Cambridge
  1915, pp. 1-2.]

1. Suspensions which might occur in any ancient manuscript or inscription, e.g.:

    B· = BUS
    Q· = QUE[15]
·C̅· = GAIUS[16]
 P· C· = PATRES CONSCRIPTI

  [Footnote 15: Found only at the end of words in our fragment. Its
  use in the body of a word is, however, very ancient.]

  [Footnote 16: The C invariably has the two dots as well as the
  superior horizontal stroke.]

2. Technical or recurrent terms which occur in the colophons at the end of each book and at
the end of letters, as:

·EXP· = EXPLICIT
·INC· = INCIPIT
 LIB· = LIBER
 VAL· = VALE[17]

  [Footnote 17: The abbreviation is indicated by a stroke above the
  letters as well as by a dot after them.]

3. Purely arbitrary suspensions which occur only in the index of addresses preceding each book,
suspensions which would never occur in the body of the text, as: SUETON TRANQUE,[18] UESTRIC
SPURINN·

  [Footnote 18: An ancestor of our manuscript must have had TRANQ·,
  which was wrongly expanded to TRANQUE.]

4. Omitted M at the end of a line, omitted N at the end of a line, the omission being indicated
by means of a horizontal stroke, thickened at either end, which is placed over the space immediately
following the final vowel.[19] This omission may occur in the middle of a word but only at
the end of a line.

  [Footnote 19: This is a sign of antiquity. After the sixth century
  the M or Nstroke is usually placed above the vowel. The practice
  of confining the omission of M or N to the end of a line is a
  characteristic of our very oldest manuscripts. Later manuscripts
  omit M or N in the middle of a line and in the middle of a word.
  No distinction is made in our manuscript between omitted M and
  omitted N. Some ancient manuscripts make a distinction. Cf.
  Traube, Nomina Sacra, pp. 179, 181, 183, 185, final column of each
  page; and W.M. Lindsay, Notae Latinae, pp. 342 and 345.]

[Sidenote: Authenticity of the six leaves]

The sudden appearance in America of a portion of a very ancient classical manuscript unknown
to modern editors may easily arouse suspicion in the minds of some scholars. Our experience
with the “Anonymus Cortesianus” has taught us to be wary,[20] and it is natural to demand proof
establishing the genuineness of the new fragment.[21] As to the six leaves of the Morgan Pliny,
it may be said unhesitatingly that no one with experience of ancient Latin manuscripts could
entertain any doubt as to their genuineness. The look and feel of the parchment, the ink, the
script, the titles, colophons, ornamentation, corrections, and later additions, all bear the
indisputable marks of genuine antiquity.

  [Footnote 20: The fraudulent character of the alleged discovery
  was exposed in masterly fashion by Ludwig Traube in his
  “Palaeographische Forschungen IV,” published in the Abhandlungen
  der K. Bayerischen Akademie der Wissenschaften, III Klasse, XXIV
  Band, 1 Abteilung, Munich 1904.]

  [Footnote 21: Cf. E.T. Merrill, “On the use by Aldus of his
  manuscripts of Pliny’s Letters,” in Classical Philology, XIV
  (1919), p. 34.]

But it may be objected that a clever forger possessing a knowledge of palaeography would be
able to reproduce all these features of ancient manuscripts. This objection can hardly be sustained.
It is difficult to believe that any modern could reproduce faithfully all the characteristics
of sixth-century uncials and fifteenth-century notarial writing without unconsciously falling
into some error and betraying his modernity. Besides, there is one consideration which to my
mind establishes the genuineness of our fragment beyond a peradventure. We have seen above
that the leaves of our manuscript are so arranged that hair side faces hair side and flesh
side faces flesh side. The visible effect of this arrangement is that two pages of clear writing
alternate with two pages of faded writing, the faded appearance being caused by the ink scaling
off from the less porous surface of the flesh side of the vellum.[22] As a matter of fact,
the flesh side of the vellum showed faded writing long before modern time. To judge by the
retouched characters on fol. 53r it would seem that the original writing had become illegible
by the eighth or ninth century.[23] Still, a considerable period of time would, so far as we
know, be necessary for this process. It is highly improbable that a forger could devise this
method of giving his forgery the appearance of antiquity, and even if he attempted it, it is
safe to say that the present effect would not be produced in the time that elapsed before the
book was sold to Mr. Morgan.

  [Footnote 22: That the hair side of the vellum retained the ink
  better than the flesh side may be seen from an examination of
  facsimiles in the Leyden series Codices graeci et latini
  photographice depicti.]

  [Footnote 23: That the ink could scale off the flesh side of the
  vellum in less than three centuries is proved by the condition of
  the famous Tacitus manuscript in Beneventan script in the Laurentian
  Library. It was written in the eleventh century and shows retouched
  characters of the thirteenth. See foll. 102, 103 in the facsimile
  edition in the Leyden series mentioned in the previous note.]

But let us assume, for the sake of argument, that the Morgan fragment is a modern forgery.
We are then constrained to credit the forger not only with a knowledge of palaeography which
is simply faultless, but, as will be shown in the second part, with a minute acquaintance with
the criticism and the history of the text. And this forger did not try to attain fame or academic
standing by his nefarious doings, as was the case with the Roman author of the forged “Anonymus
Cortesianus,” for nothing was heard of this Morgan fragment till it had reached the library
of the American collector. If his motive was monetary gain he chose a long and arduous path
to attain it. It is hardly conceivable that he should take the trouble to make all the errors
and omissions found in our twelve pages and all the additions and corrections representing
different ages, different styles, when less than half the number would have served to give
the forged document an air of verisimilitude. The assumption that the Morgan fragment is a
forgery thus becomes highly unreasonable. When you add to this the fact that there is nothing
in the twelve pages that in any way arouses suspicion, the conclusion is inevitable that the
Morgan fragment is a genuine relic of antiquity.

[Sidenote: Archetype]

As to the original from which our manuscript was copied, very little can be said. The six leaves
before us furnish scanty material on which to build any theory. The errors which occur are
not sufficient to warrant any conclusion as to the script of the archetype. One item of information,
however, we do get: an omission on fol. 52v goes to show that the manuscript from which our
scribe copied was written in lines of 25 letters or thereabout.[24] The scribe first wrote
EXCUCURIS|SEM COMMEATU. Discovering his error of omission, he erased SEM at the beginning of
line 8 and added it at the end of line 7 (intruding upon margin-space in order to do so), and
then supplied, in somewhat smaller letters, the omitted words ACCEPTO UT PRAEFECTUS AERARI.
As there are no homoioteleuta to account for the omission, it is almost certain that it was
caused by the inadvertent skipping of a line.[25] The omitted letters number 25.

  [Footnote 24: On the subject of omissions and the clues they often
  furnish, see the exhaustive treatise by A.C. Clark entitled The
  Descent of Manuscripts, Oxford 1918.]

  [Footnote 25: Our scribe’s method is as patient as it is
  unreflecting. Apparently he does not commit to memory small
  intelligible units of text, but is copying word for word, or in
  some places even letter for letter.]

A glance at the abbreviations used in the index of addresses on foll. 48v-49r teaches that
the original from which our manuscript was copied must have had its names abbreviated in exactly
the same form. There is no other way of explaining why the scribe first wrote AD IULIUM SERUIANUM
(fol. 49, l. 12), and then erased the final UM and put a point after SERUIAN.

 THE DATE AND LATER HISTORY OF THE MANUSCRIPT.

Our manuscript was written in Italy at the end of the fifth or more probably at the beginning
of the sixth century.

The manuscripts with which we can compare it come, with scarcely an exception, from Italy;
for it is only of more recent uncial manuscripts (those of the seventh and eighth centuries)
that we can say with certainty that they originate in other than Italian centres. The only
exception which occurs to one is the Codex Bobiensis (k) of the Gospels of the fifth century,
which may actually have been written in Africa, though this is far from certain. As for our
fragment, the details of its script, as well as the ornamentation, disposition of the page,
the ink, the parchment, all find their parallels in authenticated Italian products; and this
similarity in details is borne out by the general impression of the whole.

The manuscript may be dated at about the year A.D. 500, for the reason that the script is not
quite so old as that of our oldest fifth-century uncial manuscripts, and yet decidedly older
than that of the Codex Fuldensis of the Gospels (F) written in or before A.D. 546.

[Sidenote: On the dating of uncial manuscripts]

In dating uncial manuscripts we must proceed warily, since the data on which our judgments
are based are meagre in the extreme and rather difficult to formulate.

The history of uncial writing still remains to be written. The chief value of excellent works
like Chatelain’s Uncialis Scriptura or Zangemeister and Wattenbach’s Exempla Codicum Latinorum
Litteris Maiusculis Scriptorum lies in the mass of material they offer to the student. This
could not well be otherwise, since clear-cut, objective criteria for dating uncial manuscripts
have not yet been formulated; and that is due to the fact that of our four hundred or more
uncial manuscripts, ranging from the fourth to the eighth century, very few, indeed, can be
dated with precision, and of these virtually none is in the oldest class. Yet a few guide-posts
there are. By means of those it ought to be possible not only to throw light on the development
of this script, but also to determine the features peculiar to the different periods of its
history. This task, of course, can not be attempted here; it may, however, not be out of place
to call attention to certain salient facts.

The student of manuscripts knows that a law of evolution is observable in writing as in other
aspects of human endeavor. The process of evolution is from the less to the more complex, from
the less to the more differentiated, from the simple to the more ornate form. Guided by these
general considerations, he would find that his uncial manuscripts naturally fall into two groups.
One group is manifestly the older: in orthography, punctuation, and abbreviation it bears close
resemblance to inscriptions of the classical or Roman period. The other group is as manifestly
composed of the more recent manuscripts: this may be inferred from the corrupt or barbarous
spelling, from the use of abbreviations unfamiliar in the classical period but very common
in the Middle Ages, or from the presence of punctuation, which the oldest manuscripts invariably
lack. The manuscripts of the first group show letters that are simple and unadorned and words
unseparated from each other. Those of the second group show a type of ornate writing, the letters
having serifs or hair-lines and flourishes, and the words being well separated. There can be
no reasonable doubt that this rough classification is correct as far as it goes; but it must
remain rough and permit large play for subjective judgement.

A scientific classification, however, can rest only on objective criteria--criteria which,
once recognized, are acceptable to all. Such criteria are made possible by the presence of
dated manuscripts. Now, if by a dated manuscript we mean a manuscript of which we know, through
a subscription or some other entry, that it was written in a certain year, there is not a single
dated manuscript in uncial writing which is older than the seventh century--the oldest manuscript
with a precise date known to me being the manuscript of St. Augustine written in the Abbey
of Luxeuil in A.D. 669.[26] But there are a few manuscripts of which we can say with certainty
that they were written either before or after some given date. And these manuscripts which
furnish us with a terminus ante quem or post quem, as the case may be, are extremely important
to us as being the only relatively safe landmarks for following development in a field that
is both remote and shadowy.

  [Footnote 26: See below, p. 16.]

The Codex Fuldensis of the Gospels, mentioned above, is our first landmark of importance.[27]
It was read by Bishop Victor of Capua in the years A.D. 546 and 547, as is testified by two
entries, probably autograph. From this it follows that the manuscript was written before A.D.
546. We may surmise--and I think correctly--that it was shortly before 546, if not in that
very year. In any case the Codex Fuldensis furnishes a precise terminus ante quem.

  [Footnote 27: See below, p. 16.]

The other landmark of importance is furnished by a Berlin fragment containing a computation
for finding the correct date for Easter Sunday.[28] Internal evidence makes it clear that this
Computus Paschalis first saw light shortly after A.D. 447. The presumption is that the Berlin
leaves represent a very early copy, if not the original, of this composition. In no case can
these leaves be regarded as a much later copy of the original, as the following purely palaeographical
considerations, that is, considerations of style and form of letters, will go to show.

  [Footnote 28: See below, p. 16.]

Let us assume, as we do in geometry, for the sake of argument, that the Fulda manuscript and
the Berlin fragment were both written about the year 500--a date representing, roughly speaking,
the middle point in the period of about one hundred years which separates the extreme limits
of the dates possible for either of these two manuscripts, as the following diagram illustrates:

Berlin Paschal Computus                Codex Fuldensis of the Gospels
   A D  447 |<-----------------+------------------->| ca A D  546
                           A.D. 500

If our hypothesis be correct, then the script of these two manuscripts, as well as other palaeographical
features, would offer striking similarities if not close resemblance. As a matter of fact,
a careful comparison of the two manuscripts discloses differences so marked as to render our
assumption absurd. The Berlin fragment is obviously much older than the Fulda manuscript. It
would be rash to specify the exact interval of time that separates these two manuscripts, yet
if we remember the slow development of types of writing the conclusion seems justified that
at least several generations of evolution lie between the two manuscripts. If this be correct,
we are forced to push the date of each as far back as the ascertained limit will permit, namely,
the Fulda manuscript to the year 546 and the Berlin fragment to the year 447. Thus, apparently,
considerations of form and style (purely palaeographical considerations) confirm the dates
derived from examination of the internal evidence, and the Berlin and Fulda manuscripts may,
in effect, be considered two dated manuscripts, two definite guide-posts.

If the preceding conclusion accords with fact, then we may accept the traditional date (circa
A.D. 371) of the Codex Vercellensis of the Gospels. The famous Vatican palimpsest of Cicero’s
De Re Publica seems more properly placed in the fourth than in the fifth century; and the older
portion of the Bodleian manuscript of Jerome’s translation of the Chronicle of Eusebius, dated
after the year A.D. 442, becomes another guide-post in the history of uncial writing, since
a comparison with the Berlin fragment of about A.D. 447 convinces one that the Bodleian manuscript
can not have been written much after the date of its archetype, which is A.D. 442.

[Sidenote: Dated uncial manuscripts]

Asked to enumerate the landmarks which may serve as helpful guides in uncial writing prior
to the year 800, we should hardly go far wrong if we tabulate them in the following order:[29]

  [Footnote 29: For the pertinent literature on the manuscripts in the
  following list the student is referred to Traube’s Vorlesungen und
  Abhandlungen, Vol. I, pp. 171-261, Munich 1909, and the index in
  Vol. III, Munich 1920. (Second edition in French appeared in 1910.)]

1. Codex Vercellensis of the Gospels (a).    ca. a. 371

    Traube, l.c., No. 327; Zangemeister-Wattenbach, pl. XX.

2. Bodleian Manuscript (Auct. T. 2. 26) of Jerome’s translation of the Chronicle of Eusebius
(older portion).    post a. 442

    Traube, l.c., No. 164; J.K. Fotheringham, The Bodleian manuscript
    of Jerome’s version of the Chronicle of Eusebius reproduced in
    collotype, Oxford 1905, pp. 25-6; Steffens², pl. 17; also
    Schwartz in Berliner Philologische Wochenschrift, XXVI (1906),
    c. 746.

3. Berlin Computus Paschalis (MS. lat. 4º. 298).    ca. a. 447

    Traube, l.c., No. 13; Th. Mommsen, “Zeitzer Ostertafel vom Jahre
    447” in Abhandl. der Berliner Akad. aus dem Jahre 1862, Berlin
    1863, pp. 539 sqq.; “Liber Paschalis Codicis Cicensis A.
    CCCCXLVII” in Monumenta Germaniae Historica, Auctores
    Antiquissimi, IX, 1, pp. 502 sqq.; Zangemeister-Wattenbach,
    pl. XXIII.

4. Codex Fuldensis of the Gospels (F), Fulda MS. Bonifat. 1, read by Bishop Victor of Capua.
ante a. 546

    Traube, l.c., No. 47; E. Ranke, Codex Fuldensis, Novum
    Testamentum Latine interprete Hieronymo ex manuscripto Victoris
    Capuani, Marburg and Leipsic 1868; Zangemeister-Wattenbach, pl.
    XXXIV; Steffens², pl. 21a.

5. Codex Theodosianus (Turin, MS. A. II. 2).    a. 438-ca. 550

Manuscripts containing the Theodosian Code can not be earlier than A.D. 438, when this body
of law was promulgated, nor much later than the middle of sixth century, when the Justinian
Code supplanted the Theodosian and made it useless to copy it.

    Traube, l.c., No. 311; idem, “Enarratio tabularum” in Theodosiani
    libri XVI edited by Th. Mommsen and P.M. Meyer, Berlin 1905;
    Zangemeister-Wattenbach, pls. XXV-XXVIII; C. Cipolla, Codici
    Bobbiesi, pls. VII, VIII. See also Oxyrh. Papyri XV (1922),
    No. 1813, pl. 1.

6. The Toulouse Manuscript (No. 364) and Paris MS. lat. 8901, containing Canons, written at
Albi.    a. 600-666

    Traube, l.c., No. 304; F. Schulte, “Iter Gallicum” in
    Sitzungsberichte der K. Akad. der Wiss. Phil.-hist. Kl. LIX
    (1868), p. 422, facs. 5; C.H. Turner, “Chapters in the history of
    Latin manuscripts: II. A group of manuscripts of Canons at
    Toulouse, Albi and Paris” in Journal of Theological Studies, II
    (1901), pp. 266 sqq.; and Traube’s descriptions in A.E. Burn,
    Facsimiles of the Creeds from Early Manuscripts (= vol. XXXVI of
    the publications of the Henry Bradshaw Society).

7. The Morgan Manuscript of St. Augustine’s Homilies, written in the
Abbey of Luxeuil. 2 (1886), pp. 149
    sqq.; J. Havet, “Questions mérovingiennes: III. La date d’un
    manuscrit de Luxeuil” in Bibliothèque de l’école des chartes,
    XLVI (1885), pp. 429 sqq.

8. The Berne Manuscript (No. 219B) of Jerome’s translation of the Chronicle of Eusebius, written
in France, possibly at Fleury.    a. 699

    Traube, l.c., No. 16; Zangemeister-Wattenbach, pl. LIX; J.R.
    Sinner, Catalogus codicum manuscriptorum bibliothecae Bernensis
    (Berne 1760), pp. 64-7; A. Schone, Eusebii chronicorum libri
    duo, vol. II (Berlin 1866), p. XXVII; J.K. Fotheringham, The
    Bodleian manuscript of Jerome’s version of the Chronicle of
    Eusebius (Oxford 1905), p. 4.

9. Brussels Fragment of a Psalter and Varia Patristica (MS. 1221 = 9850-52) written for St.
Medardus in Soissons in the time of Childebert III. a. 695-711

    Traube, l.c., No. 27; L. Delisle, “Notice sur un manuscrit
    mérovingien de Saint-Médard de Soissons” in Revue archéologique,
    Nouv. sér. XLI (1881), pp. 257 sqq. and pl. IX; idem, “Notice sur
    un manuscrit mérovingien de la Bibliothèque Royale de Belgique Nr.
    9850-52” in Notices et extraits des manuscrits, etc., XXXI. 1
    (1884), pp. 33-47, pls. 1, 2, 4; J. Van den Ghejn, Catalogue des
    manuscrits de la Bibliothèque Royale de Belgique, II (1902), pp.
    224-6.

10. Codex Amiatinus of the Bible (Florence Laur. Am. The Treves Prosper (MS. 36, olim S. Matthaei).
a. 719

    Traube, l.c., No. 306; Zangemeister-Wattenbach, pl. XLIX;
    M. Keuffer, Beschreibendes Verzeichnis der Handschriften der
    Stadtbibliothek zu Trier, I (1888), pp. 38 sqq.

12. The Milan Manuscript (Ambros. B. 159 sup.) of Gregory’s Moralia, written at Bobbio in the
abbacy of Anastasius.    ca. a. 750

    Traube, l.c., No. 102; Palaeographical Society, pl. 121; E.H.
    Zimmermann, Vorkarolingische Miniaturen (Berlin 1916), pl.
    14-16, Text, pp. 10, 41, 152; A. Reifferscheid, Bibliotheca
    patrum latinorum italica, II, 38 sq.

13. The Bodleian Acts of the Apostles (MS. Selden supra 30) written in the Isle of Thanet.
ante a. 752

    Traube, l.c., No. 165; Smith’s Dictionary of the Bible, IV
    (New York 1876) 3458 b; S. Berger, Histoire de la Vulgate
    (Paris 1893), p. 44; Wordsworth and White, Novum Testamentum,
    II (1905), p. vii.

14. The Autun Manuscript (No. 3) of the Gospels, written at Vosevium. a. 754

    Traube, l.c., No. 3; Zangemeister-Wattenbach, pl. LXI; Steffens²,
    pl. 37.

15. Codex Beneventanus of the Gospels (London Brit. Mus. Add. MS. 5463) written at Benevento.
a. 739-760

    Traube, l.c., No. 88; Palaeographical Society, pl. 236;
    Catalogue of the Ancient Manuscripts in the British Museum, II,
    pl. 7.

16. The Lucca Manuscript (No. 490) of the Liber Pontificalis. post a. 787

    Traube, l.c., No. 92; J.D. Mansi, “De insigni codice Caroli
    Magni aetate scripto” in Raccolta di opuscoli scientifici e
    filologici, T. XLV (Venice 1751), ed. A. Calogiera, pp. 78-80;
    Th. Mommsen, Gesta pontificum romanorum, I (1899) in Monumenta
    Germaniae Historica; Steffens², pl. 48.

Guided by the above manuscripts, we may proceed to determine the place which the Morgan Pliny
occupies in the series of uncial manuscripts. The student of manuscripts recognizes at a glance
that the Morgan fragment is, as has been said, distinctly older than the Codex Fuldensis of
about the year 546. But how much older? Is it to be compared in antiquity with such venerable
monuments as the palimpsest of Cicero’s De Re Publica, with products like the Berlin Computus
Paschalis or the Bodleian Chronicle of Eusebius? If we examine carefully the characteristics
of our oldest group of fourth- and fifth-century manuscripts and compare them with those of
the Morgan manuscript we shall see that the latter, though sharing some of the features found
in manuscripts of the oldest group, lacks others and in turn shows features peculiar to manuscripts
of a later group.

[Sidenote: Oldest group of uncial manuscripts]

Our oldest group would naturally be composed of those uncial manuscripts which bear the closest
resemblance to the above-mentioned manuscripts of the fourth and fifth centuries, and I should
include in that group such manuscripts as these:

A. Of Classical Authors.

1. Rome, Vatic. lat. 5757.--Cicero, De Re Publica, palimpsest.

    Traube, l.c., No. 269-70; Zangemeister-Wattenbach, pl. XVII; E.
    Chatelain, Paléographie des classiques latins, pl. XXXIX, 2;
    Palaeographical Society, pl. 160; Steffens², pl. 15. For a
    complete facsimile edition of the manuscript see Codices e
    Vaticanis selecti phototypice expressi, Vol. II, Milan 1907;
    Ehrle-Liebaert, Specimina codicum latinorum Vaticanorum (Bonn
    1912), pl. 4.

2. Rome, Vatic. lat. 5750 + Milan, Ambros. E. 147 sup.--Scholia Bobiensia in Ciceronem, palimpsest.

    Traube, l.c., No. 265-68; Zangemeister-Wattenbach, pl. XXXI;
    Palaeographical Society, pl. 112; complete facsimile edition
    in Codices e Vaticanis selecti, etc., Vol. VII, Milan 1906;
    Ehrle-Liebaert, Specimina codicum latinorum Vaticanorum, pl. 5a.

3. Vienna, 15.--Livy, fifth decade (five books).

    Traube, l.c., No. 359; Zangemeister-Wattenbach, pl. XVIII; E.
    Chatelain, Paléographie des classiques latins, pl. CXX; complete
    facsimile edition in Codices graeci et latini photographice
    depicti, Tom. IX, Leyden 1907.

4. Paris, lat. 5730.--Livy, third decade.

    Traube, l.c., No. 183; Zangemeister-Wattenbach, pl. XIX;
    Paleographical Society, pls. 31 and 32; E. Chatelain,
    Paléographie des classiques latins, pl. CXVI; Réproductions des
    manuscrits et miniatures de la Bibliothèque Nationale, ed. H.
    Omont, Vol. I, Paris 1907.

5. Verona, XL (38).--Livy, first decade, 6 palimpsest leaves.

    Traube, l.c., No. 349-50. Th. Mommsen, Analecta Liviana, Leipsic
    1873; E. Chatelain, Paléographie des classiques latins, pl. CVI.

6. Rome, Vatic. lat. 10696.--Livy, fourth decade, Lateran fragments.

    Traube, l.c., No. 277; M. Vattasso, “Frammenti d’un Livio del V.
    secolo recentemente scoperti, Codice Vaticano Latino 10696” in
    Studi e Testi, Vol.

7. Bamberg, Class. 35a.--Livy, fourth decade, fragments.

8. Vienna, lat. 1a.--Pliny, Historia Naturalis, fragments.

    Traube, l.c., No. 357; E. Chatelain, Paléographie des classiques
    latins, pl. CXXXVII, 1.

9. St. Paul in Carinthia, XXV a 3.--Pliny, Historia Naturalis, palimpsest.

    Traube, l.c., No. 231; E. Chatelain, ibid. pl. CXXXVI. Chatelain
    cites the manuscript under the press-mark XXV 2/67.

10. Turin, A. II. 2.--Theodosian Codex, fragments, palimpsest.

    Traube, l.c., No. 311; Zangemeister-Wattenbach, pl. XXV; Cipolla,
    Codici Bobbiesi, pl. VII.

B. Of Christian Authors.

1. Paris, lat. 17225.--Corbie Gospels (ff²).

    Traube, l.c., No. 214; Palaeographical Society, pl. 87;
    E. Chatelain, Uncialis scriptura, pl. II; Reusens, Éléments
    de paléographie, pl. III, Louvain 1899.

3. Constance-Weingarten Biblical fragments.--Prophets, fragments scattered in the libraries
of Stuttgart, Darmstadt, Fulda, and St. Paul in Carinthia.

    Traube, l.c., No. 302; Zangemeister-Wattenbach, pl. XXI; complete
    facsimile reproduction of the fragments in Codices graeci et
    latini photographice depicti, Supplementum IX, Leyden 1912, with
    introduction by P. Lehmann.

4. Berlin, lat. 4º. 298.--Computus Paschalis of ca. a. 447.

    Traube, l.c., No. 13; see above, p. 16, no. 3.

5. Turin, G. VII. 15.--Bobbio Gospels (k).

    Traube, l.c., No. 324; Old Latin Biblical Texts, vol. II, Oxford
    1886; F. Carta, C. Cipolla, C. Frati, Monumenta Palaeographica
    sacra, pl. V, 2; R. Beer, “Über den Ältesten Handschriftenbestand
    des Klosters Bobbio” in Anzeiger der Kais. Akad. der Wiss. in
    Wien, 1911, No. XI, pp. 91 sqq.; C. Cipolla, Codici Bobbiesi,
    pls. XIV-XV; complete facsimile reproduction of the manuscript,
    with preface by C. Cipolla: Il codice Evangelico k della
    Biblioteca Universitaria Nazionale di Torino, Turin 1913.

6. Turin, F. IV. 27 + Milan, D. 519. inf. + Rome, Vatic. lat. 10959.-- Cyprian, Epistolae,
fragments.

    Traube, l.c., No. 320; E. Chatelain, Uncialis scriptura, pl. IV,
    2; C. Cipolla, Codici Bobbiesi, pl. XIII; Ehrle-Liebaert,
    Specimina codicum latinorum Vaticanorum, pl. 5d.

7. Turin, G. V. 37.--Cyprian, de opere et eleemosynis.

    Traube, l.c., No. 323; Carta, Cipolla e Frati, Monumenta
    palaeographica sacra, pl. V, 1; Cipolla, Codici Bobbiesi,
    pl. XII.

8. Oxford, Bodleian Auct. T. 2. 26.--Eusebius-Hieronymus, Chronicle, post a. 442.

    Traube, l.c., No. 164; see above, p. 16, no. 2.

9. Petrograd Q. v. I. 3 (Corbie).--Varia of St. Augustine.

    Traube, l.c., No. 140; E. Chatelain, Uncialis scriptura, pl.
    III; A. Staerk, Les manuscrits latins du Ve au XIIIe siècle
    conservés à la bibliothèque impériale de Saint Petersburg (St.
    Petersburg 1910), Vol. II. pl. 2.

10. St. Gall, 1394.--Gospels (n).

    Traube, l.c., No. 60; Old Latin Biblical Texts, Vol. II, Oxford
    1886; Palaeographical Society, II. pl. 50; Steffens¹, pl. 15;
    E. Chatelain, Uncialis scriptura, pl. I, 1; A. Chroust,
    Monumenta Palaeographica, XVII, pl. 3.

[Sidenote: Characteristics of the oldest uncial manuscripts]

The main characteristics of the manuscripts included in the above list, which is by no means
complete, may briefly be described thus:

    1. General effect of compactness. This is the result of scriptura
    continua, which knows no separation of words and no punctuation.
    See the facsimiles cited above.

    2. Precision in the mode of shading. The alternation of stressed
    and unstressed strokes is very regular. The two arcs of {O} are
    shaded not in the middle, as in Greek uncials, but in the lower
    left and upper right parts of the letter, so that the space
    enclosed by the two arcs resembles an ellipse leaning to the left
    at an angle of about 45°, thus {O}. What is true of the {O} is
    true of other curved strokes. The strokes are often very short,
    mere touches of pen to parchment, like brush work. Often they are
    unconnected, thus giving a mere suggestion of the form. The attack
    or fore-stroke as well as the finishing stroke is a very fine,
    oblique hair-line.[30]

  [Footnote 30: In later uncials the fore-stroke is often a horizontal
  hair-line.]

    3. Absence of long ascending or descending strokes. The letters
    lie virtually between two lines (instead of between four as in
    later uncials), the upper and lower shafts of letters like {H L P
    Q} projecting but slightly beyond the head and base lines.

    4. The broadness of the letters {M N U}

    5. The relative narrowness of the letters {F L P S T}

    6. The manner of forming {B E L M N P S T}

      B with the lower bow considerably larger than the upper, which
      often has the form of a mere comma.

      E with the tongue or horizontal stroke placed not in the
      middle, as in later uncial manuscripts, but high above it, and
      extending beyond the upper curve. The loop is often left open.

      L with very small base.

      M with the initial stroke tending to be a straight line
      instead of the well-rounded bow of later uncials.

      N with the oblique connecting stroke shaded.

      P with the loop very small and often open.

      S with a rather longish form and shallow curves, as compared
      with the broad form and ample curves of later uncials.

      T with a very small, sinuous horizontal top stroke (except at
      the beginning of a line when it often has an exaggerated
      extension to the left).

    7. Extreme fineness of parchment, at least in parts of the
    manuscript.

    8. Perforation of parchment along furrows made by the pen.

    9. Quires signed by means of roman numerals often preceded by the
    letter Q· (= Quaternio) in the lower right corner of the last
    page of each gathering.

    10. Running titles, in abbreviated form, usually in smaller
    uncials than the text.

    11. Colophons, in which red and black ink alternate, usually in
    large-sized uncials.

    12. Use of a capital, i.e., a larger-sized letter at the
    beginning of each page or of each column in the page, even if the
    beginning falls in the middle of a word.

    13. Lack of all but the simplest ornamentation, e.g., scroll or
    ivy-leaf.

    14. The restricted use of abbreviations. Besides B· and Q· and
    such suspensions as occur in classical inscriptions only the
    contracted forms of the Nomina Sacra are found.

    15. Omission of M and N allowed only at the end of a line,
    the omission being marked by means of a simple horizontal line
    (somewhat hooked at each end) placed above the line after the
    final vowel and not directly over it as in later uncial
    manuscripts.

    16. Absence of nearly all punctuation.

    17. The use of {Symbol: infra?} in the text where an omission has
    occurred, and {Symbol: supra?} after the supplied omission in
    the lower margin, or the same symbols reversed if the supplement
    is entered in the upper margin.

If we now turn to the Morgan Pliny we observe that it lacks a number of the characteristics
enumerated above as belonging to the oldest type of uncial manuscripts. The parchment is not
of the very thin sort. There has been no corrosion along the furrows made by the pen. The running
title and colophons are in rustic capitals, not in uncials. The manner of forming such letters
as {B E M R S T} differs from that employed in the oldest group.

    B with the lower bow not so markedly larger than the upper.

    E with the horizontal stroke placed nearer the middle.

    M with the left bow tending to become a distinct curve.

    R S T have gained in breadth and proportionately lost in height.

[Sidenote: Date of the Morgan manuscript]

Inasmuch as these palaeographical differences mark a tendency which reaches fuller development
in later uncial manuscripts, it is clear that their presence in our manuscript is a sign of
its more recent character as compared with manuscripts of the oldest type. Just as our manuscript
is clearly older than the Codex Fuldensis of about the year 546, so it is clearly more recent
than the Berlin Computus Paschalis of about the year 447. Its proper place is at the end of
the oldest series of uncial manuscripts, which begins with the Cicero palimpsest. Its closest
neighbors are, I believe, the Pliny palimpsest of St. Paul in Carinthia and the Codex Theodosianus
of Turin. If we conclude by saying that the Morgan manuscript was written about the year 500
we shall probably not be far from the truth.

[Sidenote: Later history of the Morgan manuscript]

The vicissitudes of a manuscript often throw light upon the history of the text contained in
the manuscript. And the palaeographer knows that any scratch or scribbling, any probatio pennae
or casual entry, may become important in tracing the wanderings of a manuscript.

In the six leaves that have been saved of our Morgan manuscript we have two entries. One is
of a neutral character and does not take us further, but the other is very clear and tells
an unequivocal story.

The unimportant entry occurs in the lower margin of folio 53r. The words “uir erat in terra,”
which are apparently the beginning of the book of Job, are written in Carolingian characters
of the ninth century. As these characters were used during the ninth century in northern Italy
as well as in France, it is impossible to say where this entry was made. If in France, then
the manuscript of Pliny must have left its Italian home before the ninth century.[31]

  [Footnote 31: This supposition will be strengthened by Professor
  Rand; see p. 53.]

That it had crossed the Alps by the beginning of the fifteenth century we know from the second
entry. Nay, we learn more precise details. We learn that our manuscript had found a home in
France, in the town of Meaux or its vicinity. The entry is found in the upper margin of fol.
51r and doubtless represents a probatio pennae on the part of a notary. It runs thus:

    “A tous ceulz qui ces presentes lettres verront et orront
    Jehan de Sannemeres garde du scel de la provoste de
    Meaulx & Francois Beloy clerc Jure de par le Roy
    nostre sire a ce faire Salut sachient tuit que par.”

The above note is made in the regular French notarial hand of the fourteenth and fifteenth
centuries.[32] The formula of greeting with which the document opens is in the precise form
in which it occurs in numberless charters of the period. All efforts to identify Jehan de Sannemeres,
keeper of the seal of the provosté of Meaux, and François Beloy, sworn clerk in behalf of the
King, have so far proved fruitless.[33]

  [Footnote 32: Compare, for example, the facsimile of a French deed
  of sale at Roye, November 24, 1433, reproduced in Recueil de
  Fac-similés à l’usage de l’école des chartes. Premier fascicule
  (Paris 1880), No. 1.]

  [Footnote 33: No mention of either of these is to be found in
  Dom Toussaints du Plessis’ Histoire de l’église de Meaux. For
  documents with similar opening formulas, see ibid. vol. ii (Paris
  1731), pp. 191, 258, 269, 273.]

[Sidenote: Conclusion]

Our manuscript, then, was written in Italy about the year 500. It is quite possible that it
had crossed the Alps by the ninth century or even before. It is certain that by the fifteenth
century it had found asylum in France. When and under what circumstances it got back to Italy
will be shown by Professor Rand in the pages that follow.

So it is France that has saved this, the oldest extant witness of Pliny’s Letters, for modern
times. To mediaeval France we are, in fact, indebted for the preservation of more than one
ancient classical manuscript. The oldest manuscript of the third decade of Livy was at Corbie
in Charlemagne’s time, when it was loaned to Tours and a copy of it made there. Both copy and
original have come down to us. Sallust’s Histories were saved (though not in complete form)
for our generation by the Abbey of Fleury. The famous Schedae Vergilianae, in square capitals,
as well as the Codex Romanus of Virgil, in rustic capitals, belonged to the monastery of St.
Denis. Lyons preserved the Codex Theodosianus. It was again some French centre that rescued
Pomponius Mela from destruction. The oldest fragments of Ovid’s Pontica, the oldest fragments
of the first decade of Livy, the oldest manuscript of Pliny’s Natural History--all palimpsests--were
in some French centre in the Middle Ages, as may be seen from the indisputably eighth-century
French writing which covers the ancient texts. The student of Latin literature knows that the
manuscript tradition of Lucretius, Suetonius, Cæsar, Catullus, Tibullus, and Propertius--to
mention only the greatest names--shows that we are indebted primarily to Gallia Christiana
for the preservation of these authors.

{Transcriber's Note: Superscript letters are shown as in mathematical notation: ^{L} The twelve-page
transcription retains the page and line breaks of the original text, representing the manuscript
itself. In a few places the authors used V in place of U. This appears to be an error, but
has not been changed.}

                [TRANSCRIPTION] [A]

  {fol. 48r}

                   LIBER·II·

CESSIT UT IPSE MIHI DIXERIT CUM CON SULERET QUAM CITO SESTERTIUM SESCEN TIES INPLETURUS ESSET
INUENISSE SE EX TA DUPLICATA QUIBUS PORTENDI MI^{L}LIES[1] ET DUCENTIES HABITURUM ET HABEBIT
SI MODO UT COEPIT ALIENA TESTAMENTA QUOD EST IMPROBISSIMUM GENUS FAL SI IPSIS QUORUM SUNT ILLA
DICTAUERIT UALE

[2]·C·PLINI·SECUNDI

EPISTULARUM·EXPLICIT·LIBER·II.

·INCIPIT·LIBER·III·FELICITER[2]

  [Footnote A: The original manuscript is in scriptura continua. For
  the reader’s convenience, words have been separated and punctuation
  added in the transcription.]

  [Footnote 1: L added by a hand which seems contemporary, if not
  the scribe’s own. If the scribe’s, he used a finer pen for
  corrections.]

  [Footnote 2-2: The colophon is written in rustic capitals, the
  middle line being in red.]

  {fol. 48v}

AD CALUISIUM RUFUM[1]
  NESCIO AN ULLUM                                5
AD UIBIUM·MAXIMUM
  QUOD·IPSE AMICIS TUIS
AD CAERELLIAE HISPULLAE[2]
  CUM PATREM TUUM
AD CAE^{CI}LIUM[3] MACRINUM                     10
  QUAMUIS ET AMICI
AD BAEBIUM MACRUM
  PERGRATUM EST MIHI
[4]AD ANNIUM[4] SEUERUM
  [4]EX HEREDITATE[4] QUAE                      15
AD CANINIUM RUFUM
  MODO NUNTIATUS EST
AD SUETON[5] TRANQUE
  FACIS AD PRO CETERA
AD CORNELIUM[6] MINICIANUM                      20
  POSSUM IAM PERSCRIB
AD UESTRIC SPURINN·
  COMPOSUISSE ME QUAED

  [Footnote 1: On this and the following page lines in red alternate
  with lines in black. The first line is in red.]

  [Footnote 2: The h seems written over an erasure.]

  [Footnote 3: ci above the line by first hand.]

  [Footnote 4-4: Over an erasure apparently.]

  [Footnote 5: t over an erasure.]

  [Footnote 6: c over an erasure.]

  {fol. 49r}

AD IULIUM GENITOR·
  EST OMNINO ARTEMIDORI                          5
AD CATILINUM SEUER·
  UENIAM AD CENAM
AD UOCONIUM ROMANUM
  LIBRUM QUO NUPER
AD PATILIUM                                     10
  REM ATROCEM
AD SILIUM PROCUL·
  PETIS UT LIBELLOS TUOS
ad nepotem adnotasse uideor fata dictaque·[1]
AD IULIUM SERUIAN·[2]
  RECTE OMNIA                                   15
AD UIRIUM SEUERUM
  OFFICIU CONSULATUS
AD CALUISIUM RUFUM·
  ADSUMO TE IN CONSILIUM
AD MAESIUM MAXIMUM                              20
  MEMINISTINE TE
AD CORNELIUM PRISCUM
  AUDIO UALERIUM MARTIAL·

  [Footnote 1: Added interlineally, in black, by first hand using a
  finer pen.]

  [Footnote 2: This is followed by an erasure of the letters um in
  red.]

  {fol. 49v}

·EPISTULARUM·

·C·PLINIUS·CALUISIO SUO SALUTEM NESCIO AN ULLUM IUCUNDIUS TEMPUS EXEGERIM QUAM QUO NUPER APUD
SPU RINNAM FUI ADEO QUIDEM UT NEMINEM MAGIS IN SENECTUTE SI MODO SENESCE               5 RE
DATUM EST AEMULARI UELIM NIHIL EST ENIM ILLO UITAE GENERE DISTIN CTIUS ME AUTEM UT CERTUS SIDERUM
CURSUS ITA UITA HOMINUM DISPOSITA DELECTAT SENUM PRAESERTIM NAM                   10 IUUENES
ADHUC CONFUSA QUAEDAM ET QUASI TURBATA NON INDECENT SE NIBUS PLACIDA OMNIA ET OR^{DI}NATA[1]
CON UENIUNT QUIBUS INDUSTRIA SER^{U}A[1] TURPIS AMBITIO EST HANC REGULAM SPURIN           
15 NA CONSTANTISSIME SERUAT·QUIN ETIAM PARUA HAEC PARUA·SI NON COTIDIE FIANT ORDINE QUODAM
ET UELUT ORBE CIRCUM AGIT MANE LECTULO[2] CONTINETUR HORA SECUNDA CALCEOS POSCIT AMBULAT MI
20 LIA PASSUUM TRIA NEC MINUS ANIMUM QUAM CORPUS EXERCET SI ADSUNT AMICI HONESTISSIMI SERMONES
EXPLICANTUR SI NON LIBER LEGITUR INTERDUM ETIAM PRAE SENTIBUS AMICIS SI TAMEN ILLI NON GRAUAN
25 TUR DEINDE CONSIDIT[3] ET LIBER RURSUS AUT SERMO LIBRO POTIOR·MOX UEHICULUM

  [Footnote 1: Letters above the line were added by first or
  contemporary hand.]

  [Footnote 2: u corrected to e.]

  [Footnote 3: Second i corrected to e (not the regular uncial
  form) apparently by the first or contemporary hand.]

  {fol. 50r}

·LIBER·III·

ASCENDIT ADSUMIT UXOREM SINGU LARIS EXEMPLI UEL ALIQUEM AMICORUM UT ME PROXIME QUAM PULCHRUM
ILLUD QUAM DULCE SECRETUM QUANTUM IBI AN TIQUITATIS QUAE FACTA QUOS UIROS AU              5
DIAS QUIBUS PRAECEPTIS IMBUARE QUAMUIS ILLE HOC TEMPERAMENTUM MODESTIAE SUAE INDIXERIT NE PRAECIPE
REUIDEATUR PERACTIS SEPTEM MILIBUS PASSUUM ITE RUM AMBULAT MILLE ITERUM RESIDIT           
10 UEL SE CUBICULO AC STILO REDDIT SCRI BIT ENIM ET QUIDEM UTRAQUE LINGUA LY RICA DOCTISSIMA
MIRA ILLIS DULCEDO MIRA SUAUITAS MIRA HILARITA[.T][.I]S[1] CUIUS GRATIAM CUMULAT SANCTITA[.T][.I]S[2]
SCRI       15 BENTIS UBI HORA BALNEI NUNTIATA EST EST AUTEM HIEME NONA·AESTATE OCTA UA IN SOLE
SI CARET UENTO AMBULAT NUDUS DEINDE MOUETUR PILA UEHE MENTER ET DIU NAM HOC QUOQUE EXER   
20 CITATIONIS GENERE PUGNAT CUM SE NECTUTE LOTUS ACCUBAT ET PAULIS PER CIBUM DIFFERT INTERIM
AUDIT LE GENTEM REMISSIUS ALIQUID ET DULCIUS PER HOC OMNE TEMPUS LIBERUM EST              
25 AMICIS UEL EADEM FACERE UEL ALIA SI MALINT ADPON^{I}TUR[3] CENA NON MINUS

  [Footnote 1: The scribe first wrote hilaritatis. To correct the
  error he or a contemporary hand placed dots above the t and i
  and drew a horizontal line through them to indicate that they should
  be omitted. This is the usual method in very old manuscripts.]

  [Footnote 2: sanctitatis is corrected to sanctitas in the manner
  described in the preceding note.]

  [Footnote 3: i added above the line, apparently by first hand.]

  {fol. 50v}

·EPISTULARUM·

NITIDA QUAM FRUGI IN ARGENTO PURO ET ANTIQUO SUNT IN USU ET C^{H}ORINTHIA[1] QUIBUS DE LECTATUR
ET ADFICITUR FREQUENTER CO MOEDIS CENA DISTINGUITUR UT UOLUPTA TES QUOQUE STUDIIS CONDIANTUR
SUMIT ALI             5 QUID DE NOCTE ET AESTATE NEMI^{NI}[1] HOC LON GUM EST TANTA COMITATE
CONUIUIUM TRAHITUR INDE ILLI POST SEPTIMUM ET SEPTUAGENSIMUM ANNUM AURIUM OCULORUM UIGOR INTEGER
INDE AGILE                    10 ET UIUIDUM CORPUS SOLAQUE EX SENEC TUTE PRUDENTIA HANC EGO
UITAM UO TO ET COGITATIONE PRAESUMO INGRES SURUS AUIDISSIME UT PRIMUM RATIO AE TATIS RECEPTUI
CANERE PERMISERIT[2] IN               15 TERIM MILLE LABORIBUS CONTEROR QUI HO RUM MIHI ET
SOLACIUM ET EXEMPLUM EST IDEM SPURINNA NAM ILLE QUOQUE QUOAD HONESTUM FUIT OB^{I}IT[1] OFFICIA
GESSIT MAGISTRATUS PROVINCIAS RE                     20 XIT MULTOQ^{UE} LABORE HOC OTIUM ME
RUIT IGITUR EUNDEM MIHI CURSUM EUN DEM TERMINUM STATUO IDQUE IAM NUNC APUD TE SUBSIGNO UT SI
ME LONGIUS SE EUEHI[3] UIDERIS IN IUS UOCES AD HANC EPIS           25 TULAM MEAM ET QUIESCERE
IUBEAS CUM INERTIAE CRIMEN EFFUGERO UALE·[4]

  [Footnote 1: The letters above the line are additions by the first,
  or by another contemporary, hand.]

  [Footnote 2: permiserit: t stands over an erasure, and original
  it seems to be corrected to et, with e having the rustic
  form.]

  [Footnote 3: The scribe first wrote longius se uehi. The e which
  precedes uehi was added by him when he later corrected the page
  and deleted se.]

  [Footnote 4: uale: The abbreviation is marked by a stroke above as
  well as by a dot after the word.]

  {fol. On correcting the page he (or a contemporary corrector)
  cancelled the i at the end of the line and added it before the
  next.]

  [Footnote 3: i changed to e (not the uncial form) possibly by
  the original hand in correcting.]

  {fol. 51v}

·EPISTULARUM·

PISCAT·UALE ·C̅·PLINIUS·CORELLIAE·SALUTEM· CUM PATREM TUUM GRAUISSIMUM ET SAN CTISSIMUM UIRUM
SUSPEXERIM MAGIS AN AMAUERIM DUBITEM TEQUE IN MEMO                        5 RIAM EIUS ET IN
HONOREM TUUM I^{U}NU^{I}ICE[1] DILIGAM CUPIAM NECESSE EST ATQUE ETIAM QUANTUM IN ME FUERIT
ENITAR UT FILIUS TUUS AUO SIMILIS EXSISTAT EQUIDEM MALO MATERNO QUAMQ^{U}AM[2] ILLI PATER 
10 NUS ETIAM CLARUS SPECTATUS^{QUE}[3] CONTIGE RIT PATER QUOQUE ET PATRUUS INLUSTRI LAU DE
CONSPICUI QUIBUS OMNIBUS ITA DEMUM SIMILIS ADOLESCET SIBI INBUTUS HONES TIS ARTIBUS FUERIT
QUAS PLURIMUM REFER[4]                 15 ṘȦT[5] A QUO POTISSIMUM ACCIPIAT ADHUC ILLUM PUERITIAE
RATIO INTRA CONTUBER NIUM TUUM TENUIT PRAECEPTORES DOMI HABUIT UBI EST ERRORIBUS MODICA ^{U}E^{L}ST[6]
ETIAM NULLA MATERIA IAM STUDIA EIUS EXTRA                       20 LIMEN CONFERANDA SUNT IAM
CIRCUMSPI CIENDUS RHETOR LATINUS CUIUS SCHO LAE SEUERITAS PUDOR INPRIMIS CASTITAS CONSTET ADEST
ENIM ADULESCENTI NOS TRO CUM CETERIS NATURAE FORTUNAEQUE                     25 DOTIBUS EXIMIA
CORPORIS PULC^{H}RITUDO[7] CUI IN HOC LUBRICO AETATIS NON PRAECEP

  [Footnote 1: inuice: corrected to unice by cancelling i and
  ui (the cancellation stroke is barely visible) and writing u and
  i above the line. The correction is by a somewhat later hand.]

  [Footnote 2: u above the line is by the first hand.]

  [Footnote 3: q· above the line is added by a somewhat later hand.]

  [Footnote 4: Final r is added by a somewhat later hand.]

  [Footnote 5: The dots above ra indicate deletion. The cancellation
  stroke is oblique.]

  [Footnote 6: A somewhat later corrector, possibly contemporary,
  changed est to uel by adding u before e and l above s
  and cancelling both s and t.]

  [Footnote 7: h added above the line by a hand which may be
  contemporary.]

  {fol. 52r}

·LIBER·III·

TOR MODO SED CUSTOS ETIAM RECTORQUE QUAERENDUS EST UIDEOR ERGO DEMON STRARE TIBI POSSE IULIUM
GEN^{I}TIOREM[1] AM^{N}ATUR[2] A ME I^{U}DICIO[3] TAMEN MEO NON OBSTAT KARITAS HOMINIS QUAE
^{EX}[4]IUDI         5 CIO NATA EST UIR EST EMENDATUS ET GRA UIS PAULO ETIAM HORRIDIOR ET DURIOR
UT IN HAC LICENTIA TEMPORUM QUAN TUM ELOQUENTIA UALEAT PLURIBUS CRE DERE POTES NAM DICENDI
FACULTAS                 10 APERTA ET EXPOSITA·STATIM CERNITUR UITA HOMINUM ALTOS RECESSUS
MAG NASQUE LATEBRAS HABET CUIUS PRO GE NITORE ME SPONSOREM ACCIPE NIHIL EX HOC UIRO FILIUS
TUUS AUDIET NISI             15 PROFUTURUM NIHIL DISCET QUOD NESCIS[5] SE RECTIUS FUERIT NE^{C}[6]
MINUS SAEPE AB ILLO QUAM A TE MEQUE ADMONEBITUR QUIBUS IMAGINIBUS ONERETUR QUAE NOMI NA ET
QUANTA SUSTINEAT PROINDE FAUEN          20 TIBUS DIIS TRADE eUM[7] PRAECEPTORI A QUO MORES
PRIMUM MOX ELOQUENTIAM DISCAT QUAE MALE SINE MORIBUS DIS CITUR UALE

·C· PLINIUS MACRINO SALUTEM                     25

QUAMUIS ET AMICI QUOS PRAESENTES HABEBAM ET SERMONES HOMINUM

  [Footnote 1: The scribe wrote gentiorem: a somewhat later
  corrector changed it to genitorem by adding an i above the line
  between n and t and cancelled the i after t.]

  [Footnote 2: Above the m a somewhat later hand wrote n. It was
  cancelled by a crude modern hand using lead.]

  [Footnote 3: u added above the line by the later hand.]

  [Footnote 4: ex added above the line by the later corrector.]

  [Footnote 5: cis is added in the margin by the later hand. The
  original scribe wrote nes | se.]

  [Footnote 6: c is added above the line by the later hand.]

  [Footnote 7: e added above the line.]

  {fol. 52v}

·EPISTULARUM·

FACTUM MEUM COMPROUASSE UIDEAN
TUR MAGNI TAMEN AESTIMO SCIRE QUID
SENTIAS TU NAM CUIUS INTEGRA RE CON
SILIUM EXQUIRERE O^{P}TASSEM[1] HUIUS ETIAM
PERACTA IUDICIȦUM[2] NOSSE MIRE CONCU            5
PISCO CUM PUBLICUM OPUS MEA PECU
NIA INCHOATURUS IN TUSCOS EXCUCURIS{SEM AC}
{CEPTO UT PR} COMMEATU[3] LEGATI PROVINCIAE
   {above COMMEATU: AEFECTUS AERARI}
BAETICAE QUESTURI DE PROCONSULATUṠ[4]
CAECILII CLASSICI ADVOCATUM ME A SE             10
NATU PETIERUNT COLLEGAE OPTIMI MEIQUE
AMANTISSIMI DE COMMUNIS OFFICII NE
CESSITATIBUS PRAELOCUTI EXCUSARE
ME ET EXIMERE TEMPTARUNT FACTUM
ṪU̇Ṁ[5] EST SENATUS CONSULTUM PERQUAM            15
HONORIFICUM UT DARE^{R}[6] PROVINCIALIBUS
PATRONUS SI AB IPSO ME IMPETRASSENT
LEGATI RURSUS INDUCTI ITERUM ME IAM
PRAESENTEM ADUOCATUM POST^{U}LAUE[7]
RUNT INPLORANTES FIDEM MEAM                     20
QUAM ESSENT CONTRA MASSAM BAE
BIUM EXPERTI ADLEGANTES PATRO^{C}INII[8]
FOEDUS SECUTA EST SENATUS CLARIS
SIMA ADSENSIO QUAE SOLET DECRETA
PRAECURRERE TUM EGO DESINO IN                   25
QUAM P. C. PUTARE ME IUSTAS EXCUSA
TIONIS CAUSAS ADTULISSE PLACUIT ET

  [Footnote 1: p added above the line by the scribe.]

  [Footnote 2: The superfluous a is cancelled by means of a dot
  above the letter.]

  [Footnote 3: The scribe originally wrote excucuris | sem commeatu,
  omitting accepto ut praefectus aerari. Noticing his error, he
  erased sem and wrote it at the end of the preceding line, and
  added the omitted words over the erasure and the word commeatu.]

  [Footnote 4: The dot over s indicates deletion.]

  [Footnote 5: tum: error due to diplography. The correction is made
  by means of dots and crossing out.]

  [Footnote 6: r added by the scribe.]

  [Footnote 7: u added apparently by a contemporary hand.]

  [Footnote 8: c added above the line, apparently by a contemporary
  hand.]

  {fol. 53r}

·LIBER·III·

MODESTIA SERMONIS ET RATIO COM PULIT AUTEM ME AD HOC CONSILIUM NON SOLUM CONSENSUS SENATUS
QUAMQUAM HIC MAXIME UERUM ET ALII QUIDEM MINORIS SED TAMEN NUMERI UENI                    5
EBAT IN MENTEM PRIORES NOSTROS ETIAM SINGULORUM HOSPİTIUM[1] INIU RIAS ACCUSATIONIBUS UOLUNTARIIS
EX SECUTOS QUO DEFORMIUS ARBITRABAR PUBLICI ^{H}OSPITII ^{I}URA[2] NEGLEGERE PRAE   10 TEREA
CUM RECORDARER QUANTA PRO IISDEM BAETICIS PRIORE ADUOCA TIONE ETIAM PERICULA SUBISSEM CON SERVANDUM
UETERIS OFFICII MERITUM NOVO VIDEBATUR EST ENIM ITA COM                 15 PARATUM UT ANTIQUIORA
BENEFICIA SUB UERTAS NISI ILLA POSTERIORIBUS CUMU LES NAM QUAMLIBET SAEPE OBLIGA(N)[3] TI SIQUID[4]
UNUM NEGES HOC SOLUM MEMINERUNT QUOD NEGATUM EST                     20 DUCEBAR ETIAM QUOD
DECESSERAT CLASSICUS AMOTUMQUE ERAT QUOD I[5]N EIUSMODI CAUSIS SOLET ESSE TRIS ṪİTISSIMUM[6]
PERICULUM SENATORIS UIDEBAM ERGO ADUOCATIONI MEAE                   25 NON MINOREM GRATIAM
QUAM SI UIUERET ILLE PROPOSITAM INUIDIAM

    Uir erat in terra[7]

  [Footnote 1: Deletion of i before u is marked by a dot above the
  letter and a slanting stroke through it.]

  [Footnote 2: h and i above the line are apparently by the first
  hand.]

  [Footnote 3: n (in brackets) is a later addition.]

  [Footnote 4: The letters uid are plainly retraced by a later hand.
  The same hand retouched neges h in the same line.]

  [Footnote 5: i before n added by a later corrector who erased
  the i which the scribe wrote after quod, in the line above.]

  [Footnote 6: Superfluous ti cancelled by means of dots and oblique
  stroke.]

  [Footnote 7: Added by a Caroline hand of the ninth century.]

  {fol. 53v}

·EPISTULARUM·

NULLAM IN SUMMA COMPUTABAM SI MUNERE HOC TERTIO FUNGERE^{R}[1] FACILI OREM MIHI EXCUSATIONEM
FORE SI QUIS INCIDISSET QUEM NON DEBEREM ACCUSARE NAM CUM EST OMNIUM OFFI                 5
CIORUM FINIS ALIQUIS TUM OPTIME LIBERTATI UENIA OBSEQUIO PRAEPARA TUR AUDISTI CONSILII MEI
MOTUS SUPER EST ALTERUTRA EX PARTE IUDICIUM TUUM IN QUO MIHI AEQUE IUCU^{I}NDA[2] ERIT SIM
10 PLICITAS DISSI^{N}TIENTIS[3] QUAM COMPRO BANTIS AUCTORITAS      UALE

·C̅·PLINIUS MACRO·SUO·SALUTEM

PERGRATUM EST MIHI QUOD TAM DILIGEN TER LIBROS AUONCULI MEI LECTITAS UT             15 HABERE
OMNES UELIS QUAERASQUE QUI SINT OMNES ḊĖFUNGAR[4] INDICIS PARTIBUS ATQUE ETIAM QUO SINT ORDINE
SCRIPTI NOTUM TIBI FACIAM EST ENIM HAEC QUOQUE STUDIOSIS NON INIUCUNDA COG            20 NITIO
DE IACULATIONE EQUESTRI UNUS· HUNC CUM PRAEFECTUS ALAE MILITA RET· PARI[5] INGENIO CURAQUE
COMPOSUIT· DE UITA POMPONI SECUNDI DUO A QUO SINGULARITER AMATUS HOC MEMORIAE             
25 AMICI QUASI DEBITUM MUNUS EXSOL UIT·BELLORUM GERMANIAE UIGINTI QUIBUS

  [Footnote 1: r added above the line by the scribe or by a
  contemporary hand.]

  [Footnote 2: i added above the second u by the scribe or by a
  contemporary hand.]

  [Footnote 3: The scribe wrote dissitientis. The
editio princeps, 1471, was based on a family of manuscripts that
omitted Book VIII, called Book IX Book VIII, and did not contain Book X,
the correspondence between Pliny and Trajan. Subsequent editions had
only in part made good these deficiencies. More than a half of Book X,
containing the letters numbered 41-121 in editions of our day, was
published by Avantius in 1502 from a copy of the Paris manuscript made
by Petrus Leander.[2] Aldus himself, two years before printing his
edition, had received from Fra Giocondo a copy of the entire manuscript,
with six other volumes, some of them printed editions which Giocondo had
collated with manuscripts. Aldus, addressing Mocenigo, thus describes
his acquisition:

    “Deinde Iucundo Veronensi Viro singulari ingenio, ac bonarum
    literarum studiosissimo, quod et easdem Secundi epistolas ab eo
    ipso exemplari a se descriptas in Gallia diligenter ut facit
    omnia, et sex alia uolumina epistolarum partim manu scripta,
    partim impressa quidem, sed cum antiquis collata exemplaribus,
    ad me ipse sua sponte, quae ipsius est ergo studiosos omneis
    beneuolentia, adportauerit, idque biennio ante, quam tu ipsum
    mihi exemplar publicandum tradidisses.”

  [Footnote 1: I would acknowledge most gratefully the help given me
  in the preparation of this part of our discussion by Professor E.T.
  Merrill, of the University of Chicago. Professor Merrill, whose
  edition of the Letters of Pliny has long been in the hands of
  Teubner, placed at my disposal his proof-sheets for the part covered
  in the Morgan fragment, his preliminary apparatus criticus for the
  entire text of the Letters, and a card-catalogue of the readings
  of B and F. He patiently answered numerous questions and
  subjected the first draft of my argument to a searching criticism
  which saved me from errors in fact and in expression. But Professor
  Merrill should not be held responsible for errors that remain or for
  my estimate of the Morgan fragment.]

  [Footnote 2: On Petrus Leander, see Merrill in Classical Philology
  V (1910), pp. 451 f.]

So now the ancient manuscript itself had come. Aldus emphasizes its value in supplying the
defects of previous editions. The Letters will now include, he declares:

    “multae non ante impressae. Tum Graeca correcta, et suis locis
    restituta, atque retectis adulterinis, uera reposita. Item
    fragmentatae epistolae, integrae factae. In medio etiam epistolae
    libri octaui de Clitumno fonte non solum uertici calx additus, et
    calci uertex, sed decem quoque epistolae interpositae, ac ex Nono
    libro Octauus factus, et ex Octauo Nonus, Idque beneficio
    exemplaris correctissimi, & mirae, ac uenerandae Vetustatis.”

The presence of such a manuscript, “most correct, and of a marvellous and venerable antiquity,”
stimulates the imagination: Aldus thinks that now even the lost Decades of Livy may appear again:

    “Solebam superioribus Annis Aloisi Vir Clariss. cum aut T. Liuii
    Decades, quae non extare creduntur, aut Sallustii, aut Trogi
    historiae, aut quemuis alium ex antiquis autoribus inuentum esse
    audiebam, nugas dicere, ac fabulas. Sed ex quo tu ex Gallia has
    Plinii epistolas in Italia reportasti, in membrana scriptas, atque
    adeo diuersis a nostris characteribus, ut nisi quis diu assuerit,
    non queat legere, coepi sperare mirum in modum, fore aetate
    nostra, ut plurimi ex bonis autoribus, quos non extare credimus,
    inueniantur.”

There was something unusual in the character of the script that made it hard to read; its ancient
appearance even suggested to Aldus a date as early as that of Pliny himself.

    “Est enim uolumen ipsum non solum correctissimum, sed etiam ita
    antiquum, ut putem scriptum Plinii temporibus.”

This is enthusiastic language. In the days of Italian humanism, a scholar might call almost
any book a codex pervetustus if it supplied new readings for his edition and its script seemed
unusual. As Professor Merrill remarks:[3]

    “The extreme age that Aldus was disposed to attribute to the
    manuscript will, of course, occasion no wonder in the minds of
    those who are familiar with the vague notions on such matters that
    prevailed among scholars before the study of palaeography had been
    developed into somewhat of a science. The manuscript may have been
    written in one of the so-called ‘national’ hands, Lombardic,
    Visigothic, or Merovingian. But if it were in a ‘Gothic’ hand of
    the twelfth or thirteenth centuries, it might have appeared
    sufficiently grotesque and illegible to a reader accustomed for
    the most part to the exceedingly clear Italian book hands of the
    fifteenth century.”

  [Footnote 3: C.P. II (1907), pp. 134 f.]

In a later article Professor Merrill well adds that even the uncial script would have seemed
difficult and alien to one accustomed to the current fifteenth-century style.[4] A contemporary
and rival editor, Catanaeus, disputed Aldus’s claims. In his second edition of the Letters
(1518), he professed to have used a very ancient book that came down from Germany and declared
that the Paris manuscript had no right to the antiquity which Aldus had imputed to it. But
Catanaeus has been proved a liar.[5] He had no ancient manuscript from Germany, and abused
Aldus mainly to conceal his cribbings from that scholar’s edition; we may discount his opinion
of the age of the Parisinus. Until Aldus, an eminent scholar and honest publisher,[6] is proved
guilty, we should assume him innocent of mendacity or naïve ignorance. He speaks in earnest;
his words ring true. We must be prepared for the possibility that his ancient manuscript was
really ancient.

  [Footnote 4: C.P. X (1915), pp. 18 f.]

  [Footnote 5: By Merrill, C.P. V (1910), pp. 455 ff.]

  [Footnote 6: Sandys, A History of Classical Studies II (1908),
  pp. 99 ff.]

Since Aldus’s time the Parisinus has disappeared. To quote Merrill again:[7]

    “This wonderful manuscript, like so many others, appears to have
    vanished from earth. Early editors saw no especial reason for
    preserving what was to them but copy for their own better printed
    texts. Possibly some leaves of it may be lying hid in old
    bindings; possibly they went to cover preserve-jars, or
    tennis-racquets; possibly into some final dust-heap. At any rate
    the manuscript is gone; the copy by Iucundus is gone; the copy
    of the correspondence with Trajan that Avantius owed to Petrus
    Leander is gone; if others had any other copies of Book X, in
    whole or in part, they are gone too.”

  [Footnote 7: C.P. II, p. 135.]

[Sidenote: The Bodleian volume]

In 1708 Thomas Hearne, the antiquary, bought at auction a peculiar volume of Pliny’s Letters.
It consisted of Beroaldus’s edition of the nine books (1498), the portions of Book X published
by Avantius in 1502, and, on inserted leaves, the missing letters of Books VIII and X.[8] The
printed portions, moreover, were provided with over five hundred variant readings and lemmata
in a different hand from that which appeared on the inserted leaves; the hand that added the
variants also wrote in the margin the sixteenth letter of Book IX, which is not in the edition
of Beroaldus. Hearne recognized the importance of this supplementary matter, for he copied
the variants into his own edition of the Letters (1703), intending, apparently, to use them
in a larger edition which he is said to have published in 1709; he also lent the book to Jean
Masson, who refers to it in his Plinii Vita. Upon Hearne’s death, this valuable volume was
acquired by the Bodleian Library in Oxford, but lay unnoticed until Mr. E.G. Hardy, in 1888,[9]
examined it and, after a comparison of the readings, pronounced it the very copy from which
Aldus had printed his edition in 1508. External proof of this highly exciting surmise seemed
to appear in a manuscript note on the last page of the edition of Avantius, written in the
hand that had inserted the variants and supplements throughout the volume:[10]

    “hae plinii iunioris epistolae ex uetustissimo exemplari
    parisiensi et restitutae et emendatae sunt opera et industria
    ioannis iucundi prestantissimi architecti hominis imprimis
    antiquarii.”

  [Footnote 8: See plate XVII, which shows the insertion in Book
  VIII.]

  [Footnote 9: Journal of Philology XVII (1888), pp. 95 ff., and in
  the introduction to his edition of the Tenth Book (1889), pp. 75
  ff.]

  [Footnote 10: See Merrill C.P. II, p. 136.]

What more natural to conclude than that here is the very copy that Aldus prepared from the
ancient manuscript and the collations and transcripts sent him by Fra Giocondo? One fact blocks
this attractive conjecture: though there are many agreements between the readings of the emended
Bodleian book and those of Aldus, there are also many disagreements. Mr. Hardy removed the
obstacle by assuming that Aldus made changes in the proof; but the changes are numerous; they
are not too numerous for a scholar who can mark up his galleys free of cost, but they are decidedly
too numerous if the scholar is also his own printer.

Merrill, in a brilliant and searching article,[11] entirely demolishes Hardy’s argument. Unlike
most destructive critics, he replaces the exploded theory by still more interesting fact. For
the rediscovery of the Bodleian book and a proper appreciation of its value, students of Pliny’s
text must always be grateful to Hardy; we now know, however, that the volume was never owned
by Aldus. The scholar who put its parts together and added the variants with his own hand was
the famous Hellenist Guillaume Budé (Budaeus). The parts on the supplementary leaves were done
by some copyist who imitated the general effect of the type used in the book itself; Budaeus
added his notes on these inserted leaves in the same way as elsewhere. It had been shown before
by Keil[12] that Budaeus must have used the readings of the Parisinus; indeed, it is from his
own statement in Annotationes in Pandectas that we learn of the discovery of the ancient manuscript
by Giocondo:[13]

    “Verum haec epistola et aliae non paucae in codicibus impressis
    non leguntur: nos integrum ferme Plinium habemus: primum apud
    parrhisios repertum opera Iucundi sacerdotis: hominis antiquarii
    Architectique famigerati.”

  [Footnote 11: C.P. II, pp. 129 ff.]

  [Footnote 12: In his edition, pp. xxiii f.]

  [Footnote 13: C.P. II, p. 152.]

The wording here is much like that in the note at the end of the Bodleian book. After establishing
his case convincingly from the readings followed by Budaeus in his quotations from the Letters,
Merrill eventually was able to compare the handwriting with the acknowledged script of Budaeus
and to find that the two are identical.[14] The Bodleian book, then, is not Aldus’s copy for
the printer. It is Budaeus’s own collation from the Parisinus. Whether he examined the manuscript
directly or used a copy made by Giocondo is doubtful; the note at the end of the Bodleian volume
seems to favor the latter possibility. Budaeus does not by any means give a complete collation,
but what he does give constitutes, in Merrill’s opinion, our best authority for any part of
the lost Parisinus.[15]

  [Footnote 14: C.P. V, p. 466.]

  [Footnote 15: C.P. II, p. 156.]

[Sidenote: The Morgan fragment possibly a part of the lost Parisinus]

Perhaps we may now say the Bodleian volume has been hitherto our best authority. For a fragment
of the ancient book, if my conjecture is right, is now, after various journeys, reposing in
the Pierpont Morgan Library in New York City.

[Sidenote: The script]

First of all, we are impressed with the script. It is an uncial of about the year 500 A.D.--certainly
venerandae vetustatis. If Aldus had this same uncial codex at his disposal, we can understand
his delight and pardon his slight exaggeration, for it is only slight. The essential truth
of his statement remains: he had found a book of a different class from that of the ordinary
manuscript--indeed diversis a nostris characteribus. Instead of thinking him arrant knave or
fool enough to bring down “antiquity” to the thirteenth century, we might charitably push back
his definition of “nostri characteres” to include anything in minuscules; script “not our own”
would be the majuscule hands in vogue before the Middle Ages. That is a position palaeographically
defensible, seeing that the humanistic script is a lineal descendant of the Caroline variety.
Furthermore, an uncial hand, though clear and regular as in our fragment, is harder to read
than a glance at a page of it promises. This is due to the writing of words continuously. It
takes practice, as Aldus says, to decipher such a script quickly and accurately. Moreover,
the flesh sides of the leaves are faded.

[Sidenote: Provenience and contents]

We next note that the fragment came to the Pierpont Morgan Library from Aldus’s country, where,
as Dr. Lowe has amply shown, it was written; how it came into the possession of the Marquis
Taccone would be interesting to know. But, like the Parisinus, the book to which our fragment
belonged had not stayed in Italy always. It had made a trip to France--and was resting there
in the fifteenth century, as is proved by the French note of that period on fol. 51r. We may
say “the book” and not merely “the present six leaves,” for the fragment begins with fol. 48,
and the foliation is of the fifteenth century. The last page of our fragment is bright and
clear, showing no signs of wear, as it would if no more had followed it;[16] I will postpone
the question of what probably did follow. Moreover, if the probatio pennae on fol. 53r is Carolingian,[17]
it would appear that the book had been in France at the beginning as well as at the end of
the Middle Ages. Thus our manuscript may well have been one of those brought up from Italy
by the emissaries of Charlemagne or their successors during the revival of learning in the
eighth and ninth centuries. The outer history of our book, then, and the character of its script,
comport with what we know of Aldus’s Parisinus.

  [Footnote 16: See Dr. Lowe’s remarks, pp. 3-6 above.]

  [Footnote 17: See above, p. 21, and below, p. 53.]

[Sidenote: The text closely related to that of Aldus]

But we must now subject our fragment to internal tests. If Aldus used the entire manuscript
of which this is a part, his text must show a general conformity to that of the fragment. An
examination of the appended collation will establish this fact beyond a doubt. The references
are to Keil’s critical edition of 1870, but the readings are verified from Merrill’s apparatus.
I will designate the fragment as Π, using P for Aldus’s Parisinus and a for his edition.

  {Transcriber’s Note:
  In the following paragraph, letters originally printed in roman
  (non-italic) type are capitalized for clarity.}

We may begin by excluding two probable misprints in Aldus, 64, 1 contuRbernium and 65, 17 subEuertas.
Then there are various spellings in which Aldus adheres to the fashion of his day, as seXcenties,
miLLies, miLLia, teNtarunt, cauSSas, auToritas, quaNquam, sYderum, hYeme, cOEna, oCium, hospiCii,
negoCiis, solaTium, adUlescet, eXoluit, THuscos; there are other spellings which modern editors
might not disdain, i.e., aerarII and iLLustri, and some that they have accepted, namely aPPonitur,
eXistat, iMpleturus, iMplorantes, oBtulissem, balInei, Caret (not Karet), Caritas (not Karitas).[18]

  [Footnote 18: The spellings Karet and Karitas, whether Pliny’s
  or not, are a sign of antiquity. In the first century A.D., as we
  see from Velius Longus (p. 53, 12 K) and Quintilian (I, 7, 10),
  certain old-timers clung to the use of k for c when the vowel
  a followed. By the fourth century, theorists of the opposite
  tendency proposed the abandonment of k and q as superfluous
  letters, since their functions were performed by c. Donatus (p.
  368, 7 K) and Diomedes, too, according to Keil (p. 423, 11), still
  believed in the rule of ka for ca, but these rigid critics had
  passed away in the time of Servius, who, in his commentary on
  Donatus (p. 422, 35 K), remarks k vero et q aliter nos utimur,
  aliter usi sunt maiores nostri. Namque illi, quotienscumque a
  sequebatur, k praeponebant in omni parte orationis, ut Kaput et
  similia; nos vero non usurpamus k litteram nisi in Kalendarum nomine
  scribendo. See also Cledonius (p. 28, 5K); W. Brambach, Latein.
  Orthog. 1868, pp. 210 ff.; W.M. Lindsay, The Latin Language,
  1894, pp. 6 f. There would thus be no temptation for a scribe at
  the end of the fifth century or the beginning of the sixth to adopt
  ka for ca as a habit. The writer of our fragment was copying
  faithfully from his original a spelling that he apparently would not
  have used himself. There are various other cases of ca in our text
  (e.g., calceos, III, i, 4; canere, 11), but there we find the
  usual spelling. On traces of ka in the Bellovacensis, see below,
  p. 57. I should not be surprised if Pliny himself employed the
  spelling ka, which was gradually modified in the successive copies
  of his work; it may be, however, that our manuscript represents a
  text which had passed through the hand of some archaeologizing
  scholar of a later age, like Donatus. At any rate, this feature of
  our fragment is an indication of genuineness and of antiquity.]

A study of our collation will also show some forty cases of correction in Π by either the scribe
himself or a second and possibly a third ancient hand. Here Aldus, if he read the pages of
our fragment and read them with care, might have seen warrant for following either the original
text or the emended form, as he preferred. The most important cases are: 61, 14 sera] Πa SERUA
Π² 61, 21 considit] Π CONSIDET Π²a The original reading of Π is clearly CONSIDIT. The second
I has been altered to a capital E, which of course is not the proper form for uncial. 62, 5
residit] Π residet a Here Π is not corrected, but Aldus may have thought that the preceding
case of CONSIDET (m. 2) supported what he supposed the better form residet. 63, 11 posset]
a POSSIT (in posset m. 1?) Π Again the corrected E is capital, not uncial, but Aldus would
have had no hesitation in adopting the reading of the second hand. 64, 2 modica vel etiam]
a MODICA EST ETIAM (corr. m. 2) Π 64, 28 excurrissem accepto, ut praefectus aerari, commeatu]
a Here Π omitted accepto ut praefectus aerari,--evidently a line of the manuscript that he
was copying, for there are no similar endings to account otherwise for the omission. 66, 2
dissentientis] a ex DISSITIENTIS m. 1 (?) Π.

There are also a few careless errors of the first hand, uncorrected, in Π, which Aldus himself
might easily have corrected or have found the right reading already in the early editions.
62, 23 conteror quorum] a CONTEROR QUI HORUM Π B F 63, 28 si] a SIBI Π 64, 24 conprobasse]
COMPROUASSE Π.

In view of these certain errors of the first hand of Π, most of them corrected but a few not,
Aldus may have felt justified in abiding by one of the early editions in the following three
cases, where Π might well have seemed to him wrong; in one of them (64,3) modern editors agree
with him: 62, 20 aurium oculorum vigor] Π aurium oculorumque uigor a 64, 3 proferenda] a CONFERANDA
Π 65, 11 et alii] Π etiam alii a.

There is only one case of possible emendation to note: 64, 29 questuri] Π quaesturi MVa Aldus’s
reading, as I learn from Professor Merrill, is in the anonymous edition ascribed to Roscius
(Venice, 1492?), but not in any of the editions cited by Keil. This may be a conscious emendation,
but it is just as possibly an error of hearing made by either Aldus or his compositor in repeating
the word to himself as he wrote or set up the passage. Once in the text, quaesturi gives no
offense, and is not corrected by Aldus in his edition of 1518. An apparently more certain effort
at emendation is reported by Keil on 62, 13, where Aldus is said to differ from all the manuscripts
and the editions in reading agere for facere. So he does in his second edition; but here he
has facere with everybody else. The changes in the second edition are few and are largely confined
to the correction of obvious misprints. There is no point in substituting agere for facere.
I should attribute this innovation to a careless compositor, who tried to memorize too large
a bit of text, rather than to an emending editor. At all events, it has no bearing on our immediate
concern.

The striking similarity, therefore, between Aldus’s text and that of our fragment confirms
our surmise that the latter may be a part of that ancient manuscript which he professes to
have used in his edition. Whatever his procedure may have been, he has produced a text that
differs from Π only in certain spellings, in the correction, with the help of existing editions,
of three obvious errors of Π and of three of its readings that to Aldus might well have seemed
erroneous, in two misprints, and in one reading which is possibly an emendation but which may
just as well be another misprint. Thus the internal evidence of the text offers no contradiction
of what the script and the history of the manuscript have suggested. I can not claim to have
established an irrefutable conclusion, but the signs all point in one direction. I see enough
evidence to warrant a working hypothesis, which we may use circumspectly as a clue, submit
to further tests, and abandon in case these tests yield evidence with which it can not be reconciled.

[Sidenote: Editorial methods of Aldus]

Further, if we are justified in our assumption that Aldus used the manuscript of which Π is
a part, the fragment is instructive as to his editorial methods. If he proceeded elsewhere
as carefully as here, he certainly did not perform his task with the high-handedness of the
traditional humanistic editor; rather, he treated his ancient witness with respect, and abandoned
it only when confronted with what seemed its obvious mistakes. I will revert to this matter
at a later stage of the argument.

        RELATION OF THE MORGAN FRAGMENT
    TO THE OTHER MANUSCRIPTS OF THE LETTERS.

But, it will be asked, how do we know that Aldus used Π rather than some other manuscript that
had a very similar text and that happened to have gone through the same travels? To answer
this question we must examine the relation of Π to the other extant manuscripts in the light
of what is known of the transmission of Pliny’s Letters in the Middle Ages. A convenient summary
is given by Merrill on the basis of his abundant researches.[19]

  [Footnote 19: C.P. X (1915), pp. 8 ff. A classified list of the
  manuscripts of the Letters is given by Miss Dora Johnson in C.P.
  VII (1912), pp. 66 ff.]

[Sidenote: Classes of the manuscripts]

Manuscripts of the Letters may be divided into three classes, distinguished by the number of
books that each contains.

Class I, the ten-book family, consists of B (Bellovacensis or Riccardianus), now Ashburnhamensis,
R 98 in the Laurentian Library in Florence, its former home, whence it had been diverted on
an interesting pilgrimage by the noted book-thief Libri. This manuscript is attributed to the
tenth century by Merrill, and by Chatelain in his description of the book. But Chatelain labels
his facsimile page “Saec. IX.”[20] The latter seems the more probable date. The free use of
a flat-topped a, along with the general appearance of the script, reminds me of the style in
vogue at Fleury and its environs about the middle of the ninth century. A good specimen is
accessible in a codex of St. Hilary on the Psalms (Vaticanus Reginensis 95), written at Micy
between 846 and 859, of which a page is reproduced by Ehrle and Liebaert.[21] F (Florentinus),
the other important representative of this class, is also in the Laurentian Library (S. Marco
284). The date assigned to it seems also too late. It is apparently as early as the tenth century,
and also has some of the characteristics of the script of Fleury; it is French work, at any
rate. Keil’s suggestion[22] that it may be the book mentioned as liber epistolarum Gaii Plinii
in a tenth-century catalogue of the manuscripts at Lorsch may be perfectly correct; though
not written at Lorsch, it might have been presented to the monastery by that time.[23] These
two manuscripts agree in containing, by the first hand, only Books I-V, vi (F having all and
B only a part of the sixth letter). However, as the initial title in B is PLINI · SECUNDI ·
EPISTULARUM · LIBRI · DECEM, we may infer that some ancestor, if not the immediate ancestor,
of B and F had all ten books.

  [Footnote 20: Pal. des Class. Lat. pl. CXLIII. See our plates XIII
  and XIV. At least as early as the thirteenth century, the manuscript
  was at Beauvais. The ancient press-mark S. Petri Beluacensis, in
  writing perhaps of the twelfth century, may still be discerned on
  the recto of the first folio. See Merrill, C.P. X, p. 16. If the
  book was written at Beauvais, as Chatelain thinks (Journal des
  Savants, 1900, p. 48), then something like what I call the
  mid-century style of Fleury was also cultivated, possibly a bit
  later, in the north. The Beauvais Horace, Leidensis lat. 28 saec.
  IX (Chatelain, pl. LXXVIII), shows a certain similarity in the
  script to that of B. If both were done at Beauvais, the Horace
  would seem to be the later book. It belongs, we may observe, to a
  group of manuscripts of which a Floriacensis (Paris lat. 7971) is a
  conspicuous member. To settle the case of B, we need a study of
  all the books of Beauvais. For this, a valuable preliminary survey
  is given by Omont in Mém. de l’Acad. des Ins. et Belles Lettres XL
  (1914), pp. 1 ff.]

  [Footnote 21: Specimina Cod. Lat. Vatic. 1912, pl. 30. See also
  H.M. Bannister, Paleografia Musicale Vaticana 1913, p. 30, No.
  109.]

  [Footnote 22: See the preface to his edition, p. xi.]

  [Footnote 23: For the script of F, see plates XV and XVI. Bern.
  136, s. XIII (Merrill, C.P. X, p. 18) is a copy of F.]

In Class II the leading manuscript is another Laurentian codex (Mediceus XLVII 36), which contains
Books I-IX, xxvi, 8. It was written in the ninth century, at Corvey, whence it was brought
to Rome at the beginning of the sixteenth century. It is part of a volume that also once contained
our only manuscript of the first part of the Annals of Tacitus.[24] The other chief manuscript
of this class is V (Vaticanus Latinus 3864), which has Books I-IV. The script has been variously
estimated. I am inclined to the opinion that the book was written somewhere near Tours, perhaps
Fleury, in the earlier part of the ninth century.[25] If Ullman is right in seeing a reference
to Pliny’s Letters in a notice in a mediaeval catalogue of Corbie,[26] it may be that the codex
is a Corbeiensis. But it is also possible that a volume of the Letters at Corbie was twice
copied, once at Corvey (M) and once in the neighborhood of Tours (V). At any rate, with the
help of V, we may reach farther back than Corvey and Germany for the origin of this class.
There are likewise two fragmentary texts, both of brief extent, Monacensis 14641 (olim Emmeramensis)
saec. IX, and Leidensis Vossianus 98 saec. IX, the latter partly in Tironian notes. Merrill
regards these as bearing “testimony to the existence of the nine-book text in the same geographical
region,” namely Germany.[27] There they are to-day, in Germany and Holland, but where they
were written is another affair. The Munich fragment is part of a composite volume of which
it occupies only a page or two. The script is continental, and may well be that of Regensburg,
but it shows marked traces of insular influence, English rather than Irish in character. The
work immediately preceding the fragment is in an insular hand, of the kind practised at various
continental monasteries, such as Fulda; there are certain notes in the usual continental hand.
Evidently the manuscript deserves consideration in the history of the struggle between the
insular and the continental hands in Germany.[28] The script of the Leyden fragment, on the
other hand, so far as I can judge from a photograph, looks very much like the mid-century Fleury
variety with which I have associated the Bellovacensis; there can hardly be doubt, at any rate,
that De Vries is correct in assigning it to France, where Voss obtained so many of his manuscripts.[29]
Except, therefore, for M and the Munich fragment, there is no evidence furnished by the chief
manuscripts which connects the tradition of the Letters with Germany. The insular clue afforded
by the latter book deserves further attention, but I can not follow it here. The question of
the Parisinus aside, B and F of Class I and V of Class II are sure signs that the propagation
of the text started from one or more centres--Fleury and Corbie seem the most probable--in France.

  [Footnote 24: Cod. Med. LXVIII, 1. See Rostagno in the preface to
  his edition of this manuscript in the Leyden series, and for the
  Pliny, Chatelain, Pal. des Class. Lat., pl. CXLV. Keil (edition,
  p. vi), followed by Kukula (edition, p. iv), incorrectly assigns the
  manuscript to the tenth century. The latest treatment is by Paul
  Lehmann in his “Corveyer Studien,” in Abhandl. der Bayer. Akad. der
  Wiss. Philos.-philol. u. hist. Klasse, XXX, 5 (1919), p. 38. He
  assigns it to the middle or the last half of the ninth century.]

  [Footnote 25: Chatelain calls the page of Pliny that he reproduces
  (pl. CXLIV) tenth century, but attributes the Sallust portion of the
  manuscript, although this seems of a piece with the style of the
  Pliny, to the ninth; see pl. LIV. Hauler, who has given the most
  complete account of the manuscript, thinks it “saec. IX/X”
  (Wiener Studien XVII (1895), p. 124). He shows, as others had done
  before him, the close association of the book with Bernensis 357,
  and of that codex with Fleury.]

  [Footnote 26: See Merrill C.P. X, p. 23. The catalogue (G. Becker,
  Catalogi bibliothecarum antiqui, p. 282) was prepared about 1200,
  and is of Corbie, not as Merrill has it, Corvey. Chatelain (on plate
  LIV) regards the book as “provenant du monastère de Corbie.” At my
  request, Mr. H.J. Leon, Sheldon Fellow of Harvard University,
  recently examined the manuscript, and neither he nor Monsignore
  Mercati, the Prefect of the Vatican Library, could discover any note
  or library-mark to indicate that the book is a Corbeiensis. In a
  recent article, Philol. Quart. I am indebted to Professor Lehmann for the facts on the
  basis of which I have made the statement above. To quote his exact
  words, the contents of the manuscript are as follows: “Fol. 1-31v
  Briefe des Hierononymus u. Gregorius Magnus + fol. 46v-47v,
  Briefe des Plinius an Tacitus u. Albinus, in kontinentaler, wohl
  Regensburger Minuskel etwa der Mitte des 9ten Jahrhunderts, unter
  starken insularen (angelsächsischen) Einfluss in Buchstabenformen,
  Abkürzungen, etc. Fol. 32r saec. IX ex vel X in. fol.
  32v-46r in der Hauptsache direkt insular mit historischen Notizen
  in festländischer Style. Fol. 48v-128 Ambrosius saec. X in.”]

  [Footnote 29: Commentatiuncula de C. Plinii Caecilii Secundi
  epistularum fragmento Vossiano notis tironianis descripto (in
  Exercitationes Palaeog. in Bibl. Univ. Lugduno-Bat., 1890). De
  Vries ascribes the fragment to the ninth century and is sure that
  the writing is French (p. 12). His reproduction, though not
  photographic, gives an essentially correct idea of the script.
  The text of the fragment is inferior to that of MV, with which
  manuscripts it is undoubtedly associated. In one error it agrees
  with V against M. Chatelain (Introduction à la Lecture des
  Notes Tironiennes, 1900), though citing De Vries’s publication in
  his bibliography (p. xv), does not discuss the character of the
  notes in this fragment. I must leave it for experts in tachygraphy
  to decide whether the style of the Tironian notes is that of the
  school of Orléans.]

The third class comprises manuscripts containing eight books, the eighth being omitted and
the ninth called the eighth. Representatives of this class are all codices of the fifteenth
century, though the class has a more ancient basis than that, namely a lost manuscript of Verona.
This is best attested by D, a Dresden codex, while almost all other manuscripts of this class
descend from a free recension made by Guarino and conflated with F; o, u, and x are the representatives
of this recension (G) that are reported by Merrill. The relation of this third class to the
second is exceedingly close; indeed, it may be merely a branch of it.[30]

  [Footnote 30: See Merrill’s discussion of the different
  possibilities, C.P. X, p. 14.]

[Sidenote: The early editions]

As is often the case, the leading manuscript authorities are only inadequately represented
in the early editions. The Editio Princeps (p) of 1471 was based on a manuscript of the Guarino
recension. A Roman editor in 1474 added part of Book VIII, putting it at the end and calling
it Book IX; he acquired this new material, along with various readings in the other books,
from some manuscript of Class II that may have come down from the north. Three editors, called
ς by Keil--Pomponius Laetus 1490, Beroaldus 1498, and Catanaeus 1506--took r as a basis; but
Laetus had another and a better representative of the same type of text as that from which
r had drawn, and he likewise made use of V. With the help of these new sources the ς editors
polished away a large number of the gross blunders of p and r, and added a sometimes unnecessary
brilliance of emendation. Avantius’s edition of part of Book X in 1502 was appropriated by
Beroaldus in the same year and by Catanaeus in 1506; these latter editors had no new sources
at their disposal. No wonder that the Parisinus seemed a godsend to Aldus. The only known ancient
manuscripts whose readings had been utilized in the editions preceding his own were F and V,
both incomplete representatives of Classes I and II. The manuscripts discovered by the Roman
editor and Laetus were of great help at the time, but we have no certain evidence of their
age. B and M were not accessible.[31] Now, besides the transcript of Giocondo and his other
six volumes, whatever these may have been, Aldus had the ancient codex itself with all ten
books complete. Everybody admits that the Parisinus, as shown by the readings of Aldus, is
clearly associated with the manuscripts of Class I. Its contents corroborate the evidence of
the title in B, which indicates descent from some codex containing ten books.

  [Footnote 31: C.P. X, p. 20.]

[Sidenote: Π a member of Class I]

Now nothing is plainer than that Π is a member of Class I, as it agrees with BF in the following
errors, or what are regarded by Keil as errors. I consider the text of the Letters and not
their superscriptions. 60, 15 duplicia] MVD duplicata ΠBFGa; 61, 12 confusa adhuc] MV adhuc
confusa ΠBFGa; 62, 6 doctissime] MV doctissima ΠBFDa et doctissima G; 62, 16 nec adficitur]
MVD et adficitur ΠBFGa; 62, 23 quorum] MVDGa qui horum ΠBF; 63, 22 teque et] MVDG teque ΠBFa;
64, 3 proferenda] Doxa conferenda BFu CONFERANDA Π (MV lack an extensive passage here); 65,
11 alii quidam minores sed tamen numeri] DG alii quidam minores sed tam innumeri MV alii quidem
minoris sed tamen numeri ΠBFa; 65, 12 voluntariis accusationibus] M (uoluntaris) D voluntariis
om. V accusationibus uoluntariis ΠBFGa; 65, 15 superiore] MVD priore ΠBFGa; 65, 24 iam] MVDG
om. ΠBFa.

Tastes differ, and not all these eleven readings of Class I may be errors. Kukula, in the most
recent Teubner edition (1912), accepts three of them (60, 15; 62, 6; 65, 15), and Merrill,
in his forthcoming edition, five (60, 15; 61, 12; 62, 6; 65, 12; 65, 15). Personally I could
be reconciled to them all with the exception of the very two which Aldus could not admit--62,
23 and 64, 3; in both places he had the early editions to fall back on. However, I should concur
with Merrill and Kukula in preferring the reading of the other classes in 62, 16 and 65, 24.
In 65, 11 I would emend to alii quidam minoris sed tamen numeri; if this is the right reading,
ΠBF agree in the easy error of quidem for quidam, and MVD in another easy error, minores for
minoris--the parent manuscript of MV further changed tamen numeri to tam innumeri. Whatever
the final judgment, here are five cases in which all recent editors would attribute error to
Class I; in the remaining six cases the manuscripts of Class I either agree in error or avoid
the error of Class II--surely, then, Π is not of the latter class. There are six other significant
errors of MV in the whole passage, no one of which appears in Π: 61, 15 si non] sint MV; 62,
6 mira illis] mirabilis MV; 62, 11 lotus] illic MV; cibum] cibos MV; 62, 25 fuit--64, 12 potes]
om. MV; 66, 12 amatus] est amatus MV. Once the first hand in Π agrees with V in an error easily
committed independently: 61, 12 ordinata] ORDINATA, DI ss. m. 2 Π ornata V.

Π, then, and MV have descended from the archetype by different routes. With Class III, the
Verona branch of Class II, Π clearly has no close association.

But the evidence for allying Π with B and F, the manuscripts of Class I, is by no means exhausted.
In 61, 14, BFux have the erroneous emendation, which Budaeus includes among his variants, of
serua for sera. A glance at Π shows its apparent origin. The first hand has SERA correctly;
the second hand writes U above the line.[32] If the second hand is solely responsible for the
attempt at improvement here, and is not reproducing a variant in the parent manuscript of Π,
then BF must descend directly from Π. The following instances point in the same direction:
61, 21 considit] considet BF. Π has CONSIDIT by the first hand, the second hand changing the
second I to a capital E.[33] In 65, 5, however, RESIDIT is not thus changed in Π, and perhaps
for this very reason is retained by the careful scribe of B; F, which has a slight tendency
to emend, has, with G, residet. 63, 9 praestat amat me] praestatam ad me B. Here the letters
of the scriptura continua in Π are faded and blurred; the error of B would therefore be peculiarly
easy if this manuscript derived directly from Π. If one ask whether the page were as faded
in the ninth century as now, Dr. Lowe has already answered this question; the flesh side of
the parchment might well have lost a portion of its ink considerably before the Carolingian
period.[34] In any case, the error of praestatam ad me seems natural enough to one who reads
the line for the first time in Π. B did not, as we shall see, copy directly from Π; a copy
intervened, in which the error was made and then, I should infer, corrected above the line,
whence F drew the right reading, B taking the original but incorrect text.

  [Footnote 32: I have not always followed Dr. Lowe in distinguishing
  first and second hands in the various alterations discussed here
  (pp. 48-50).]

  [Footnote 33: See above, p. 42.]

  [Footnote 34: See above, pp. 11 f.]

There are cases in plenty elsewhere in the Letters to show that B is not many removes from
the scriptura continua of some majuscule hand. In the section included in Π, apart from the
general tightness of the writing, which led to the later insertion of strokes between many
of the words,[35] we note these special indications of a parent manuscript in majuscules. In
61, 10 me autem], B started to write mea and then corrected it. 64, 19 praeceptori a quo] praeceptoria
quo B, (m. 1) F. If B or its parent manuscript copied Π directly, the mistake would be especially
easy, for PRAECEPTORIA ends the line in Π. 64, 25 integra re]. After integra, a letter is erased
in B; the copyist, it would seem, first mistook integra re for one word.

  [Footnote 35: See plates XIII-XIV.]

Other instances showing a close connection between B and Π are as follows: 62, 23 unice] Π
has by the first hand INUICE, the second hand writing U above I, and a vertical stroke above
U. In BF, uince, the reading of the first hand, is changed by the second to unice; this second
hand, Professor Merrill informs me, seems to be that of a writer in the same scriptorium as
the first. The error in BF might, of course, be due to copying an original in minuscules, but
it might also be due to the curious state of affairs in Π. 65, 24 fungerer]. In Π the final
R is written, somewhat indistinctly, above the line. B has fungerer corrected by the second
hand from fungeret (?), which may be due to a misunderstanding of Π. 66, 2 avunculi] AUONCULI
Π (O in ras.) B. This form might perhaps be read; F has emended it out, and no other manuscript
has it. 65, 7 desino, inquam, patres conscripti, putare] Here the relation of BF to Π seems
particularly close. Π, like MVDoxa, has the abbreviation P.C. On a clearly written page, the
error of reputare (BF) for P.C. PUTARE is not a specially likely one to make. But in the blur
at the bottom of fol. 52v, a page on the flesh side of the parchment, the combination might
readily be mistaken for REPUTARE.

Another curious bit of testimony appears at the beginning of the third book. The scribe of
B[36] wrote the words NESCIO--APUD in rustic capitals, occupying therewith the first line and
about a third of the second. This is not effective calligraphy. It would appear that he is
reproducing, as is his habit, exactly what he found in his original. That original might have
had one full line, or two lines, of majuscules, perhaps, following pretty closely the lines
in Π, which has the same amount of text, plus the first three letters of SPURINNAM, in the
first two lines. If B had Π before him, there is nothing to explain his most unusual procedure.
His original, therefore, is not Π but an intervening copy, which he is transcribing with an
utter indifference to aesthetic effect and with a laudable, if painful, desire for accuracy.
This trait, obvious in B’s work throughout, is perhaps nowhere more strikingly exhibited than here.

  [Footnote 36: See plate XIV.]

[Sidenote: Π the direct ancestor of BF with probably a copy intervening]

If Π is the direct ancestor of BF, these manuscripts should contain no good readings not found
in Π, unless their writers could arrive at such readings by easy emendation or unless there
is contamination with some other source. From what we know of the text of BF in general, the
latter supposition may at once be ruled out. There are but three cases to consider, two of
which may be readily disposed of: 64, 3 proferenda] conferenda BF CONFERANDA Π; 64, 4 conprobasse]
(comp.) BF COMPROUASSE Π. These are simple slips, which a scribe might almost unconsciously
correct as he wrote. The remaining error (63, 28 SIBI to si) is not difficult to emend when
one considers the entire sentence: quibus omnibus ita demum similis adolescet, si imbutus honestis
artibus fuerit, quas, etc. It is less probable, however, that B with Π before him should correct
it as he wrote than, as we have already surmised, that a minuscule copy intervened between
Π and B, in which the letters bi were deleted by some careful reviser. Two other passages tend
to confirm this assumption of an intermediate copy. In 65, 6 (tum optime libertati venia obsequio
praeparatur), B has optimae, a false alteration induced perhaps by the following libertati.
In Π, OPTIME stands at the end of the line. The scribe of B, had he not found libertati immediately
adjacent, would not so readily be tempted to emend; still, we should not make too much of this
instance, as B has a rather pronounced tendency to write ae for e. A more certain case is 66,
7 fungar indicis] fungarindicis ex fungari dicis B; here the error is easier to derive from
an original in minuscules in which in was abbreviated with a stroke above the i. There is abundant
evidence elsewhere in the Letters that the immediate ancestor of BF was written in minuscules;
I need not elaborate this point. Our present consideration is that apart from the three instances
of simple emendation just discussed, there is no good reading of B or F in the portion of text
contained in Π that may not be found, by either the first or the second hand, in Π.[37]

  [Footnote 37: There are one or two divergencies in spelling hardly
  worth mention. The most important are 63, 10 caret B KARET Π;
  caritas B KARITAS Π. Yet see below, p. 57, where it is shown
  that the ancient spelling is found in B elsewhere than in the
  portion of text included in Π.]

We may now examine a most important bit of testimony to the close connection existing between
BF and Π. B alone of all manuscripts hitherto known is provided with indices of the Letters,
one for each book, which give the names of the correspondents and the opening words of each
letter. Now Π, by good luck, preserves the end of Book II, the beginning of Book III, and between
them the index for Book III. Dr. F.E. Robbins, in a careful article on B and F, and one on
the tables of contents in B,[38] concluded that P did not contain the indices which are preserved
in B, and that these were compiled in some ancestor of B, perhaps in the eighth century. Here
they are, in the Morgan fragment, which takes us back two centuries farther into the past.
A comparison of the index in Π shows indubitably a close kinship with B. A glance at plates
XIII and XIV indicates, first of all, that the copy B, here as in the text of the Letters,
is not many removes from scriptura continua. Moreover, the lists are drawn up on the same principle;
the nomen and cognomen but not the praenomen of the correspondent being given, and exactly
the same amount of text quoted at the beginning of each letter. The incipit of III, xvi (AD
NEPOTEM--ADNOTASSE UIDEOR FATADICTAQ·) is an addition in Π, and the lemma is longer than usual,
as though the original title had been omitted in the manuscript which Π was copying and the
corrector of Π had substituted a title of his own making.[39] It reappears in B, with the easy
emendation of facta from fata. The only other case in the indices of a right reading in B that
is not in Π is in the title of III, viii: AD SUETON TRANQUE Π Adsu&on tranqui. B. In both these
instances the scribe of B needed no external help in correcting the simple error. Far more
significant is the coincidence of B and Π in very curious mistakes, as the address of III,
iii (AD CAERELLIAE HISPULLAE for AD CORELLIAM HISPULLAM) and the lemma of III, viii (FACIS
ADPROCETERA for FACIS PRO CETERA). ΠBF agree in omitting SUAE (III, iii) and SUO (III, iv),
but in retaining the pronominal adjectives in the other addresses preserved in Π. The same
unusual suspensions occur in Π and B, as AD SUETON TRANQUE (tranqui B); AD UESTRIC SPURINN·;
AD SILIUM PROCUL.[40] In the first of these cases, the parent of Π evidently had TRANQ·, which
Π falsely enlarges to TRANQUE; this form and not TRANQ· is the basis of B’s correction--a semi-successful
correction--TRANQUI. This, then, is another sign that B depends directly on Π. Further, B omits
one symbol of abbreviation which Π has (POSSUM IAM PERSCRIB̅), the lemma of the ninth letter),
and in the lemma of the tenth neither manuscript preserves the symbol (COMPOSUISSE ME QUAED).
In the first of these cases, it will be observed, B has a very long i in perscrib.[41] This
long i is not a feature of the script of B, nor is there any provocation for it in the way
in which the word is written in Π. This detail, therefore, may be added to the indications
that a copy in minuscules intervened between B and Π; the curious i, faithfully reproduced,
as usual, by B, may have occurred in such a copy.

  [Footnote 38: C.P. V, pp. 467 ff. and 476 ff., and for the
  supposed lack of indices in P, p. 485.]

  [Footnote 39: I venture to disagree with Dr. Lowe’s view (above,
  p. 25) that the addition is by the first hand.]

  [Footnote 40: See above, p. 11.]

  [Footnote 41: See plate XIV.]

These details prove an intimate relation between Π and BF, and fit the supposition that B and
F are direct descendants of Π. This may be strengthened by another consideration. If Π and
B independently copy the same source, they inevitably make independent errors, however careful
their work. Π should contain, then, a certain number of errors not in B. As we have found only
three such cases in 12 pages, or 324 lines, and as in all these three the right reading in
B could readily have been due to emendation on the part of the scribe of B or of a copy between
Π and B, we have acquired negative evidence of an impressive kind. It is distinctly harder
to believe that the two texts derive independently from a common source. Show us the significant
errors of Π not in B, and we will accept the existence of that common source; otherwise the
appropriate supposition is that B descends directly from its elder relative Π. It is not necessary
to prove by an examination of readings that Π is not copied from B; the dates of the two scripts
settle that matter at the start. Supposing, however, for the moment, that Π and B were of the
same age, we could readily prove that the former is not copied from the latter. For B contains
a significant collection of errors which are not present in Π. Six slight mistakes were made
by the first hand and corrected by it, three more were corrected by the second hand, and twelve
were left uncorrected. Some of these are trivial slips that a scribe copying B might emend
on his own initiative, or perhaps by a lucky mistake. Such are 64, 26 iudicium] indicium B;
64, 29 Caecili] caecilii B; 65, 13 neglegere] neglere B. But intelligent pondering must precede
the emendation of praeceptoria quo into praeceptori a quo (64, 19), of beaticis into Baeticis
(65, 15), and of optimae into optime (65, 26), while it would take a Madvig to remedy the corruptions
in 63, 9 (praestatam ad me) and 65,7 (reputare into patres conscripti putare). These are the
sort of errors which if found in Π would furnish incontrovertible proof that a manuscript not
containing them was independent of Π; but there is no such evidence of independence in the
case of B. Our case is strengthened by the consideration that various of the errors in B may
well be traced to idiosyncrasies of Π, not merely to its scriptura continua, a source of misunderstanding
that any majuscule would present, but to the fading of the writing on the flesh side of the
pages in Π, and to the possibility that some of the corrections of the second hand may be the
private inventions of that hand.[42] We are hampered, of course, by the comparatively small
amount of matter in Π, nor are we absolutely certain that this is characteristic of the entire
manuscript of which it was once a part. But my reasoning is correct, I believe, for the material
at our disposal.

  [Footnote 42: See above, pp. 48 f.]

[Sidenote: The probable stemma]

Our tentative stemma thus far, then, is No. 1 below, not No. 2 and not No. 3.

     No. 1             No. 2              No. 3

     Π               Π                X
      |                 |                 /   \
      |                 |                /     \
     Π¹              Π¹            /       \
     / \                |             X¹     Π
    /   \               |             / \
  B    \             B           /   \
         F            |          B    \
                        |                 F
                       F

Robbins put P in the position of Π in this last stemma, but on the assumption that it did not
contain the indices. That is not true of Π.

[Sidenote: Further consideration of the external history of P, Π, and B]

Still further evidence is supplied by the external history of our manuscripts. B was at Beauvais
at the end of the twelfth or the beginning of the thirteenth century, as we have seen.[43]
Whatever the uncertainties as to its origin, any palaeographer would agree that it could hardly
have been written before the middle of the ninth century or after the middle of the tenth.
It was undoubtedly produced in France, as was F, its sister manuscript. The presumption is
that Π¹, the copy intervening between Π and B, was also French, and that Π was in France when
the copy was made from it. Merrill, for what reason I fail to see, suggested that the original
of BF might be “Lombardic,” written in North Italy.[44] An extraneous origin of this sort must
be proved from the character of the errors, such as spellings and the false resolution of abbreviations,
made by BF. If no such signs can be adduced, it is natural to suppose that Π¹ was of the same
nationality and general tendencies as its copies B and F. This consideration helps out the
possible evidence furnished by the scribbling in a hand of the Carolingian variety on fol.
53v;[45] we may now be more confident that it is French rather than Italian. But whatever the
history of our book in the early Middle Ages, in the fifteenth century it was surely near Meaux,
which is not far from Paris--about as far to the east as Beauvais is to the north. Now, granted
for a moment that the last of our stemmata is correct, X, from which Π and B descend, being
earlier than Π, must have been a manuscript in majuscules, written in Italy, since that is
unquestionably the provenience of Π. There were, then, by this supposition, two ancient majuscule
manuscripts of the Letters, most closely related in text--veritable twins, indeed--that travelled
from Italy to France. One (X¹) had arrived in the early Middle Ages and is the parent of B
and F; the other (Π) was probably there in the early Middle Ages, and surely was there in the
fifteenth century. We can not deny this possibility, but, on the principle melius est per unum
fieri quam per plura, we must not adopt it unless driven to it. The history of the transmission
of Classical texts in the Carolingian period is against such a supposition.[46] Not many books
of the age and quality of Π were floating about in France in the ninth century. There is nothing
in the evidence presented by Π and B that drives us to assume the presence of two such codices.
There is nothing in this evidence that does not fit the simpler supposition that BF descend
directly from Π. The burden of proof would appear to rest on those who assert the contrary.
Π, therefore, if the ancestor of B, contained at least as much as we find today in B. Some
ancestor of B had all ten books. Aldus, whose text is closely related to BF, got all ten books
from a very ancient manuscript that came down from Paris. Our simpler stemma indicates the
presence of one rather than more than one such manuscript in the vicinity of Paris in the ninth
or the tenth century and again in the fifteenth. This line of argument, which presents not
a mathematically absolute demonstration but at least a highly probable concatenation of facts
and deductions, warrants the assumption, to be used at any rate as a working hypothesis, that
Π is a fragment of the lost Parisinus which contained all the books of Pliny’s Letters.

  [Footnote 43: See above, p. 44, n. 2.]

  [Footnote 44: “Zur frühen Ueberlieferungsgeschichte des
  Briefwechsels zwischen Plinius und Trajan,” in Wiener Studien XXXI
  (1909), p. 258.]

  [Footnote 45: See above, pp. 21, 41.]

  [Footnote 46: See above, p. 22.]

Our stemma, then, becomes,

P (the whole manuscript), of which Π is a part.
            |
            |
           P¹
           / \
          /   \
        B    \
               F

[Sidenote: Evidence from the portions of BF outside the text of Π]

We may corroborate this reasoning by evidence drawn from the portions of BF outside the text
of Π. We note, above all, a number of omissions in BF that indicate the length of line in some
manuscript from which they descend. This length of line is precisely what we find in Π. Our
fragment has lines containing from 23 to 33 letters, very rarely 23, 24, or 33, and most frequently
from 27 to 30, the average being 28.4. These figures tally closely with those given by Professor
A.C. Clark[47] for the Vindobonensis of Livy, a codex not far removed in date from Π. Supposing
that Π is a typical section of P--and after Professor Clark’s studies[48] we may more confidently
assume that it is--P had the same length of line. The important cases of omission are as follows:

  [Footnote 47: The Descent of Manuscripts, 1918, p. 16. Professor
  Clark counts on two pages chosen at random, 23-31 letters in the
  line. My count for Π includes the nine and a third pages on
  which full lines occur. If I had taken only foll. 52r, 52v, 53r and
  53v, I should have found no lines of 32 or 33 letters. On the other
  hand, the first page to which I turned in the Vindobonensis of Livy
  (133v) has a line of 32 letters, and so has 135v, while 136v has one
  of 33. The lines of Π are a shade longer than those of the
  Vindobonensis, but only a shade.]

  [Footnote 48: Ibidem, pp. vi, 9-18. There is some danger of
  pushing Professor Clark’s method too far, particularly when it is
  applied to New Testament problems. For a well-considered criticism
  of the book, see Merrill’s review in the Classical Journal XIV
  (1919), pp. 395 ff.]

32, 19 atque etiam invisus virtutibus fuerat evasit, reliquit incolumen optimum atque] etiam--atque
om. BF. P would have the abbreviation for bus in virtutibus and for que in atque. There would
thus be in all 61 letters and dots, or two lines, arranged about as follows:

                              ATQ·
    ETIAMINUISUSUIRTUTIB·FUERATEUA     (30)
    SITRELIQUITINCOLUMEMOPTIMUMATQ·    (31)

The scribe could easily catch at the second ATQ· after writing the first. It will be at once
objected that the repeated ATQ· might have occasioned the mistake, whatever the length of the
line. Thus in 82, 2 (aegrotabat Caecina Paetus, maritus eius, aegrotabat] Caecina-- aegrotabat
om. BF), the omitted portion comprises 34 letters--a bit too long, perhaps, for a line of P.
The following instances, however, can not be thus disposed of.

94, 10 alia quamquam dignitate propemodum paria] quamquam--paria (32 letters) om. BF. Cetera
and paria, to be sure, offer a mild case of homoioteleuta, but not powerful enough to occasion
an omission unless the words happened to stand at the ends of lines, as they might well have
done in P. As the line occurs near the beginning of a letter, we may verify our conjecture
by plotting the opening lines. The address, as in Π, would occupy a line. Then, allowing for
contractions in rebus (18) and quoque (19) and reading cum (Class I) for quod (18), cetera
(Class I) for alia (20), we can arrange the 236 letters in 8 lines, with an average of 29.5
letters in a line.

123, 10 sentiebant. interrogati a Nepote praetore quem docuissent, responderunt quem prius:
interrogati an tunc gratis adfuisset, responderunt sex milibus] interrogati a Nepote--docuissent
responderunt om. BF. Here are two good chances for omissions due to similar endings, as interrogati
and responderunt are both repeated, but neither chance is taken by BF. Instead, a far less
striking case (sentiebant--responderunt) leads to the omission. The arrangement in P might be

                     SENTIEBANT
    INTERROGATIANEPOTEPRAETORE       (26)
    QUEMDOCUISSENTRESPONDERUNT       (26)
    QUEMPRIUSINTERROGATIANTUNCGRA    (29)
    TISADFUISSETRESPONDERUNTSEXMI    (29)

Here the dangerous words INTERROGATI and RESPONDERUNT are in safe places. SENTIEBANT and RESPONDERUNT,
ordinarily a safe enough pair, become dangerous by their position at the end of lines; indeed,
in the scriptura continua the danger of confusing homoioteleuta, unless these stand at the
end of lines, is distinctly less than in a script in which the words are divided. Here again,
as in 94, 10, we may reckon the lengths of the opening lines of the letter. After the line
occupied with the addresses, we have 296 letters, or ten lines with an average of 29.6 letters
apiece.

We may add two omissions of F in passages now missing altogether in B. 69, 28 quod minorem
ex liberis duobus amisit sed maiorem] minorem--sed om. F. Here again an omission is imminent
from the similar endings minorem--maiorem; that made by F (29 letters and one dot) seems to
be that of a line of P where the arrangement would be:

                             QUOD
    MINOREMEXLIBERISDUOB·AMISITSED
    MAIOREM

There may have been a copy (P²) intervening between P¹ and F, but doubtless neither that nor
P¹ itself had lines so short as those in P; the error of F, therefore, may be most naturally
ascribed to P¹, who omitted a line of P.

130, 16 percolui. in summa (cur enim non aperiam tibi vel iudicium meum vel errorem?) primum
ego] in summa--primum (59 letters) om. F. As there are no homoioteleuta here at all, we surely
are concerned with the omission of a line or lines. Perhaps 59 letters would make up a line
in P¹ or P². Perhaps two lines of P were dropped.

Similarly we may note two omissions in B, though not in F, which may be due originally to the
error of P¹ in copying P.

68, 5 electorumque commentarios centum sexaginta mihi reliquit, opisthographos] -torumque--opisthographos
om. B. Allowing the abbreviation of QUE, we have 59 letters and one dot here. The omitted words
are written by the first hand of B at the foot of the page. Of course the omission may correspond
to a line of P¹ dropped by B in copying, but it is equally possible that P¹ committed the error
and corrected it by the marginal supplement, F noting the correction in time to include the
omitted words in his text, B copying them in the margin as he found them in P¹.

87, 12 tacitus suffragiis impudentia inrepat. nam quoto cuique eadem honestatis] suffragiis--honestatis
om. m. 1, add. in mg. m. 2 B (54 letters, with QUE abbreviated). This may be like the preceding,
except that the correction was done not by the original scribe of B, but by a scribe in the
same monastery. The presence of homoioteleuta, we must admit, adds an element of uncertainty.

So, of the passages here brought forward, 94, 20; 123, 10 and 69, 28 are best explained by
supposing that B and F descend from a manuscript that like Π had from 24 to 32 letters in a
line, while 32, 19 and 130, 16 fit this supposition as well as they do any other.

One orthographic peculiarity is perhaps worth noting: we saw that B did not agree with Π in
the spellings karet and karitas.[49] We do, however, find karitate elsewhere in B (109, 8),
and the curious reading Kl [.’.] facere, mg. calfacere, for calfacere (56, 12). This is an
additional bit of evidence for supposing that a copy (P¹) intervened between P and B; P had
the spelling Karitas consistently, P¹ altered it to the usual form, and B reproduced the corrections
in P¹, failing to take them all, unless, as may well be, P¹ had failed to correct all the cases.

  [Footnote 49: See above, pp. 42, n. 1, and 50, n. 1.]

Thus the evidence contained in the portion of BF outside the text of Π corroborates our working
hypothesis deduced from the fragment itself. We have found nothing yet to overthrow our surmise
that a bit of the ancient Parisinus is veritably in the city of New York.

          EDITORIAL METHODS OF ALDUS.

[Sidenote: Aldus’s methods; his basic text]

We may now return to Aldus and imagine, if we can, his method of critical procedure. Finding
his agreement with Π so close, even in what editors before and after him have regarded as errors,
I am disposed to think that he studied his Parisinus with care and followed its authority respectfully.
Finding that his seemingly extravagant statements about the antiquity of his book are essentially
true, I am disposed to put more confidence in Aldus than editors have granted him thus far.
I should suppose that, working in the most convenient way, he turned over to his compositor,
not a fresh copy of P, but the pages of some edition corrected from P--which Aldus surely tells
us that he used--and from whatever other sources he consulted. It may be beyond our powers
to discover the precise edition that he thus employed. It does not at first thought seem likely
that he would select the Princeps, which does not include the eighth book at all, and contains
errors that later were weeded out. In the portion of text included in Π, P has thirty-two readings
which Aldus avoids. In most of these cases p commits an error, sometimes a ridiculous error,
like offam for officia (62, 25); the manuscript on which p was based apparently made free use
of abbreviations. Keil’s damning estimate of r[50] is amply borne out in this section of the
text; Aldus differs from r in sixty-five cases, most of these being errors in r. He agrees
with ς in all but twenty-six readings.[51] Aldus would have had fewest changes to make, then,
if his basic text was ς. This is apparently the view of Keil,[52] who would agree at any rate
that Aldus made special use of the ς editions and who also declares that p is the fundamentum
of r as r is of the edition of Pomponius Laetus.[53]

  [Footnote 50: See the introduction to his edition, p. xviii.]

  [Footnote 51: See below, pp. 60 ff.]

  [Footnote 52: Op. cit., p. xxv: illis potissimum Aldum usum esse
  vidi.]

  [Footnote 53: Op. cit., pp. xviii, xx.]

It would certainly be natural for Aldus to start with his immediate predecessors, as they had
started with theirs. The matter ought to be cleared up, if possible, for in order to determine
what Aldus found in P we must know whether he took some text as a point of departure and, if
so, what that text was. But the task should be undertaken by some one to whom the early editions
are accessible. Keil’s report of them, intentionally incomplete,[54] is sufficient, he declares,[55]
“ad fidem Aldinae editionis constituendam,” but, as I have found by comparing our photographs
of the edition of Beroaldus in the present section, Keil has not collated minutely or accurately
enough to encourage us to undertake, on the basis of his apparatus, an elaborate study of Aldus’s
relation to the editions preceding his own.

  [Footnote 54: Op. cit., p. 2: Ex ς pauca adscripta sunt.]

  [Footnote 55: Op. cit., p. xxxii.]

[Sidenote: The variants of Budaeus in the Bodleian volume]

We may now test Aldus by the evidence of the Bodleian volume with its variants in the hand
of Budaeus. For the section included in Π, their number is disappointingly small. The only
additions by Budaeus (= i) to the text of Beroaldus are: 61, 14 sera] MVDoa, (m. 1) Π serua
BFuxi, (m. 2) Π; 62, 4 ambulat] i cum plerisque ambulabat r Ber. (ab del.) M; 62, 25 quoque]
i cum ceteris p̷ouq (ue) Ber.; 64, 23 Quamvis] q Vmuis Ber. corr. i.

This is all. Budaeus, who, according to Merrill, had the Parisinus at his disposal, has corrected
two obvious misprints, made an inevitable change in the tense of a verb--with or without the
help of the ancient book--and introduced from that book one unfortunate reading which we find
in the second hand of Π.

There is one feature of Budaeus’s marginal jottings that at once arouses the curiosity of the
textual critic, namely, the frequent appearance of the obelus and the obelus cum puncto. These
signs as used by Probus[56] would denote respectively a surely spurious and a possibly spurious
line or portion of text. But such was not the usage of Budaeus; he employed the obelus merely
to call attention to something that interested him. Thus at the end of the first letter of
Book III we find a doubly pointed obelus opposite an interesting passage, the text of which
shows no variants or editorial questionings. Budaeus appears to have expressed his grades of
interest rather elaborately--at least I can discover no other purpose for the different signs
employed. The simple obelus apparently denotes interest, the pointed obelus great interest,
the doubly pointed obelus intense interest, and the pointing finger of a carefully drawn hand
burning interest. He also adds catchwords. Thus on the first letter he calls attention successively[57]
to Ambulatio, Gestatio, Hora balnei, pilae ludus, Coena, and Comoedi. The purpose of the doubly
pointed obelus is plainly indicated here, as it accompanies two of these catchwords. Just so
in the margin opposite 65, 17, a pointing finger is accompanied by the remark, “Beneficia beneficiis
aliis cumulanda,” while 227, 5 is decorated with the moral ejaculation, “o hominem in diuitiis
miserum.” Incidentally, it is obvious that the Morgan fragment was once perused by some thoughtful
reader, who marked with lines or brackets passages of special interest to him. For example,
the account of how Spurinna spent his day[58] is so marked. This passage likewise called forth
various marginal notes from Budaeus,[59] and other coincidences exist between the markings
in Π and the marginalia in the Bodleian volume. But there is not enough evidence of this sort
to warrant the suggestion that Budaeus himself added the marks in Π.

  [Footnote 56: See Ribbeck’s Virgil, Prolegomena, p. 152.]

  [Footnote 57: See plate XVIII.]

  [Footnote 58: Epist. III, i (plate IV).]

  [Footnote 59: See plate XVIII.]

[Sidenote: Aldus and Budaeus compared]

It is of some importance to consider what Budaeus might have done to the text of Beroaldus
had he treated it to a systematic collation with the Parisinus. Our fragment allows us to test
Budaeus; for even if it be not the Parisinus itself, its readings with the help of B, F, and
Aldus show what was in that ancient book. I have enumerated above[60] eleven readings of ΠBF
which are called errors by Keil, but of which nine were accepted by Aldus and five by the latest
editor, Professor Merrill. In two of these (62, 33 and 64, 3), Budaeus, like Aldus, wisely
does not harbor an obvious error of P. In two more (62, 16 and 65, 12), Beroaldus already has
the reading of P. Of the remaining seven, however, all of which Aldus adopted, there is no
trace in Budaeus. There are also nineteen cases of obvious error in the ς editions, which Aldus
corrected but Budaeus did not touch. I give the complete apparatus[61] for these twenty-six
places, as they will illustrate the radical difference between Aldus and Budaeus in their use
of the Parisinus.

  [Footnote 60: See above, p. 47.]

  [Footnote 61: The readings of manuscripts are taken from Merrill,
  those of the editions from Keil; in the latter case, I use
  parentheses if the reading is only implied, not stated.]

    60, 15 duplicia] MVDrς
           duplicata ΠBFGpa

    61, 12 confusa adhuc] MVς
           adhuc confusa ΠBFGpra

        18 milia passuum tria nec] ΠBFMV(p?)a
           milia passum tria et nec D
           mille pastria nec r
           mille pas. nec ς

    62,  6 doctissime] MVς
           et doctissime r
           doctissima ΠBFDa
           et doctissima p

        26 igitur eundem mihi cursum, eundem] ΠBFD(p?)a
           igitur et eundem mihi cursum et eundem rς

           fuit (25)--potes (64, 12) om. MV

    63,  2 MAXIMO] ΠBFDG(pr?)a
           Valerio Max. ς
           Gauio Maximo Catanaeus

         4 Arrianus Maturus] ΠBFDra
           arianus maturus Gp
           Arrianus Maturius ς

         5 est] ΠBFDG(p?)a om. r Ber.

         9 ardentibus dicere] ΠBFDG(r?)a
           dicere ardentius pς

        12 excolendusque] ΠBFD(p?)a
           extollendusque Grς

        15 conferas in eum] ΠBFD(p?)a
           in eum conferas Grς

        17 excipit] ΠBFD(p?)a
           accipit rς

           quam si] ΠBFDG(p?)a
           quasi si r
           quasi Laet., Ber.

        20 CORELLIAE HISPULLAE SUAE] CORELLIAE ΠB
           AD CAERELLIAE HISPULLAE ind. ΠB
           CORELLIE ISPULLAE F CORELLIAE HISPULLAE a
           corneliae (Coreliae Catanaeus) hispullae (suae add. Do)
             DGprς

        22 teque et] DG(p?)[sigma]
           teque ΠBFra

        23 et in] ΠBFDG(p?)a
           et rς

           diligam, cupiam necesse est atque etiam] ΠBFDG(p?)a
           diligam et cupiam necesse est etiam r
           diligam atque etiam cupiam nececesse (sic) est etiam Ber.

    64,  2 erroribus modica vel etiam nulla] BFDG(p?)a
             (ex ERRORIB·MODICAESTETIAMNULLA m. 2)Π
           erroribus uel modica uel nulla r
           erroribus modica uel nulla Ber.
           uel erroribus modica uel etiam nulla vulgo

         5 fortunaeque] ΠBFDG(p?)a
           form(a)eque r Ber.

    65, 11 alii quidem minores sed tamen numeri] (ali D) DGp
           alii quidem minoris sed tamen numeri ΠBFa
           alii quidam (quidem Catanaeus) minores sed tam
             (tamen rς) innumeri MVrς

        15 superiore] MVDς
           priore ΠBFGra prior p

        24 iam] MVDG(pr?)ς om. ΠBFa

    66,  7 sint omnes] ΠBFMVDG(pr?)a
           sint ς

         9 haec quoque] ΠBFDVGra
           hoc quoque M
           hic quoque p
           haec ς

        11 Pomponi] ΠBMVo
           Pomponii FDpra
           Q. Pomponii ς

        12 amatus] ΠFDG(pr?)a
           est amatus MVς
           amatus est corr. m. 1 B

Here is sufficient material for a test. Aldus, it will be observed, whether or not he started
with some special edition, refuses to follow the latest and best texts of his day (i.e., ς)
in these twenty-six readings. In one sure case (60, 15) and eleven possible[62] cases (61,
18; 62, 26; 63, 5, 12, 15, 17 bis, 23 bis; 64, 2, 5), his reading agrees with the Princeps.
In four sure cases (63, 4, 22; 65, 15; 66, 9) and one possible one (63, 9), he agrees with
the Roman edition; in two sure (61, 12; 66, 11) and three possible (63, 2; 66, 7, 12) cases,
with both p and r. Once he breaks away from all editions reported by Keil and agrees with D
(62, 6). At the same time, all these readings are attested by ΠFB and hence were presumably
in the Parisinus. In two cases (65, 11, 24), we know of no source other than P that could have
furnished him his reading. Further, in the superscription of the third letter of Book III (63,
20), he might have taken a hint from Catanaeus, who was the first to depart from the reading
CORNELIAE, universally accepted before him, but again it is only P that could give him the
correct spelling CORELLIAE.[63]

  [Footnote 62: I say “possible” because the reading is implied, not
  stated, in Keil’s edition. The reading of Beroaldus on 63, 23 I get
  from our photograph, not from Keil, who does not give it.]

  [Footnote 63: I have purposely omitted to treat Aldus’s use of the
  superscriptions in P, as that matter is best reserved for a
  consideration of the superscriptions in general.]

If all the above readings, then, were in the Parisinus, how did Aldus arrive at them? Did he
fish round, now in the Princeps, now in the Roman edition, despite the repellent errors that
those texts contained,[64] and extract with felicitous accuracy excellent readings that coincided
with those of the Parisinus, or did he draw them straight from that source itself? The crucial
cases are 65, 11 and 24. As he must have gone to the Parisinus for these readings, he presumably
found the others there, too. Moreover, he did not get his new variants by a merely sporadic
consultation of the ancient book when he was dissatisfied with the accepted text of his day,
for in the two crucial cases and many of the others, too, that text makes sense; some of the
readings, indeed, are accepted by modern editors as correct.[65] Aldus was collating. He carefully
noted minutiae, such as the omission of et and iam, and accepted what he found, unless the
ancient text seemed to him indisputably wrong. He gave it the benefit of the doubt even when
it may be wrong. This is the method of a scrupulous editor who cherishes a proper veneration
for his oldest and best authority.

  [Footnote 64: See above, p. 58.]

  [Footnote 65: See above, pp. 47 f.]

Budaeus, on the other hand, is not an editor. He is a vastly interested
reader of Pliny, frequently commenting on the subject-matter or calling
attention to it by marginal signs. As for the text, he generally finds
Beroaldus good enough. He corrects misprints, makes a conjecture now and
then, or adopts one of Catanaeus, and, besides supplementing the missing
portions with transcripts made for him from the Parisinus, inserts
numerous variants, some of which indubitably come from that
manuscript.[66] In the present section, occupying 251 lines in Π,
there is only one reading of the Parisinus--a false reading, it
happens--that seems to Budaeus worth recording. Compared with what Aldus
gleaned from Π, Budaeus’s extracts are insignificant. It is
remarkable, for instance, that on a passage (65, 11) which, as the
appended obelus shows, he must have read with attention, he has not
added the very different reading of the Parisinus. Thus in 227, 14
  (see plate XVII b) we find him writing Tamen for tum, Budaeus
  correcting this error in the margin. A scribe is of course capable
  of anything, but with an uncial tum to start from, tamen is not
  a natural mistake to commit; it would rather appear that the scribe
  falsely resolved a minuscule abbreviation.]

But I do not mean to present here a final estimate of Budaeus; for that, I hope, we may look
to Professor Merrill. Nor do I particularly blame Budaeus for not constructing a new text from
the wealth of material disclosed in the Parisinus. His interests lay elsewhere; suos quoique
mos. What I mean to say, and to say with some conviction, is that for the portion of text included
in our fragment, the evidence of that fragment, coupled with that of B and F, shows that as
a witness to the ancient manuscript Aldus is overwhelmingly superior to either Budaeus or any
of the ancient editors.

Our examination of the Morgan fragment, therefore, leads to what I deem a highly probable conclusion.
We could perhaps hope for absolute proof in a matter of this kind only if another page of the
same manuscript should appear, bearing a note in the hand of Aldus Manutius to the effect that
he had used the codex for his edition of 1508. Failing that, we can at least point out that
all the data accessible comport with the hypothesis that the Morgan fragment was a part of
this very codex. We have set our hypothesis running a lengthy gauntlet of facts, and none has
tripped it yet. We have also seen that Π is most intimately connected with manuscripts BF of
Class I, and indeed seems to be a part of the very manuscript whence they are descended. Finally,
a careful comparison of Aldus’s text with Π shows him, for this much of the Letters at least,
to be a scrupulous and conscientious editor. His method is to follow Π throughout, save when,
confronted by its obvious blunders, he has recourse to the editions of his day.

[Sidenote: The latest criticism of Aldus]

Since the publication of Otto’s article in 1886,[68] in which the author defended the F branch
against that of MV, to which, as the elder representative of the tradition, Keil had not unnaturally
deferred, critical procedure has gradually shifted its centre. The reappearance of B greatly
helped, as it corroborates the testimony of F. B and F head the list of the manuscripts used
by Kukula in his edition of 1912,[69] and B and F with Aldus’s Parisinus make up Class I, not
Class II, in Merrill’s grouping of the manuscripts. Obviously, the value of Class I mounts
higher still now that we have evidence in the Morgan fragment of its existence in the early
sixth century. This fact helps us to decide the question of glosses in our text. We are more
than ever disposed to attribute not to BF but to what has now become the younger branch of
the tradition, Class II, the tendency to interpolate explanatory glosses. The changed attitude
towards the BF branch has naturally resulted in a gradual transformation of the text. We have
seen in the portion included in Π that of the eleven readings which Keil regarded as errors
of the F branch, three are accepted by Kukula and five by Merrill.[70]

  [Footnote 68: “Die Ueberlieferung der Briefe des jüngeren Plinius,”
  in Hermes XXI (1886), pp. 287 ff.]

  [Footnote 69: See p. iv.]

  [Footnote 70: See above, pp. 47 f.]

Since Class I has thus appreciated in value, we should expect that Aldus’s stock would also
take an upward turn. In Aldus’s lifetime, curiously, he was criticized for excessive conservatism.
His rival Catanaeus finds his chief quality supina ignorantia and adds:[71]

    “Verum enim uero non satis est recuperare venerandae vetustatis
    exemplaria, nisi etiam simul adsit acre emendatoris iudicium:
    quoniam et veteres librarii in voluminibus describendis saepissime
    falsi sunt, et Plinius ipse scripta sua se viuo deprauari in
    quadam epistola demonstrauerit.”

  [Footnote 71: See the prefatory letter in his edition of 1518.]

Nowadays, however, editors hesitate to accept an unsupported reading of Aldus as that of the
Parisinus, since they believe that he abounds in those very conjectures of which Catanaeus
felt the lack. The attitude of the expert best qualified to judge is still one of suspicion
towards Aldus. In his most recent article,[72] Professor Merrill declares that Keil’s remarks[73]
on the procedure of Aldus in the part of Book X already edited by Avantius, Beroaldus, and
Catanaeus might safely have been extended to cover the work of Aldus on the entire body of
the Letters. He proceeds to subject Aldus to a new test, the material for which we owe to Merrill’s
own researches. He compares with Aldus’s text the manuscript parts of the Bodleian volume,
which are apparently transcripts from the Parisinus (= I);[74] in them Budaeus with his own
hand (= i) has corrected on the authority of the Parisinus itself, according to Merrill, the
errors of his transcriber. In a few instances, Merrill allows, Budaeus has substituted conjectures
of his own. This material, obviously, offers a valuable criterion of Aldus’s methods as an
editor. There is a further criterion in the shape of Codex M, not utilized till after Aldus’s
edition. As this manuscript represents Class II, concurrences between M and Ii against a make
it tolerably certain that Aldus himself and no higher authority is responsible for such readings.
On this basis, Merrill cites twenty-five readings in the added part of Book VIII (viii, 3 quas
obvias--xviii, II amplissimos hortos) and nineteen readings in the added part of Book X (letters
iv-xli), which represent examples “wherein Aldus abandons indubitably satisfactory readings
of his only and much belauded manuscript in favor of conjectures of his own.”[75] Letter IX
xvi, a very short affair, added by Budaeus in the margin, contains no indictment against Aldus.
The wayfaring man, though a fool, need not err therein.”[77] I speak as a wayfarer, but nevertheless
I must own that Professor Merrill’s path of argument causes me to stumble. I readily admit
that Aldus, in editing a portion of text that no man had put into print before him, fell back
on conjecture when his authority seemed not to make sense. But Merrill’s lists need revision.
He has included with Aldus’s “willful deviations” from the true text of P certain readings
that almost surely were misprints (218, 12; 220, 3), some that may well be (as 217, 28; 221,
12), one case in which Aldus has retained an error of P while I emends (221, 11), and several
cases in which Aldus and I or i emend in different ways an error of P (222, 14; 226, 5; 272,
4--not 5). In one case he misquotes Aldus, when the latter really has the reading that both
Merrill and Keil indicate as correct (276, 21); in another he fails to remark that Aldus’s
erroneous reading is supported by M (219,17). However, even after discounting these and possibly
other instances, a significant array of conjectures remains. Still, it is not fair to call
the Parisinus Aldus’s only manuscript. We know that he had other material in the six volumes
of manuscripts and collated editions sent him by Giocondo, as well as the latter’s copy of
P. There could hardly have been in this number a source superior to the Parisinus, but Giocondo
may have added here and there his own or others’ conjectures, which Aldus adopted unwisely,
but at least not solely on his own authority; the most apparent case of interpolation (224,
8) Keil thought might have been a conjecture of Giocondo’s. Further, if the general character
of P is represented in Π, Book X, as well as the beginning of Book III, may have had variants
by the second hand, sometimes taken by Aldus and neglected, wisely, by Budaeus’s transcriber.

  [Footnote 76: P. 33.]

  [Footnote 77: P. 30.]

[Sidenote: The Morgan fragment the best criterion of Aldus]

With the discovery of the Morgan fragment, a new criterion of Aldus is offered. I believe that
it is the surest starting-point from which to investigate Aldus’s relation to his ancient manuscript.
I admit that for Book X, Avantius and the Bodleian volume in its added parts are better authorities
for the Parisinus than is Aldus. I admit that Aldus resorted throughout the text of the Letters--in
some cases unhappily--to the customary editorial privilege of emendation. But I nevertheless
maintain that for the entire text he is a much better authority than the Bodleian volume as
a whole, and that he should be given, not absolute confidence, but far more confidence than
editors have thus far allowed him. Nor is the section of text preserved in the fragment of
small significance for our purpose. Indeed, both for Aldus and in general, I think it even
more valuable than a corresponding amount of Book X would be. We could wish that it were longer,
but at least it includes a number of crucial readings and above all vouches for the existence
of the indices some two hundred years before the date previously assigned for their compilation.
It also supplies a final confirmation of the value of Class I; indeed, B and F, the manuscripts
of this class, appear to have descended from the very manuscript of which Π was a part. We
see still more clearly than before that BF can be used elsewhere in the Letters as a test of
Aldus, and we also note that these manuscripts contain errors not in the Parisinus. This is
a highly important factor for forming a true estimate of Aldus and one that we could not deduce
from a fragment of Book X, which BF do not contain.

[Sidenote: Conclusion]

I conclude, then, that the Morgan fragment is a piece of the Parisinus, and that we may compare
with Aldus’s text the very words which he studied out, carefully collated, and treated with
a decent respect. On the basis of the new information furnished us by the fragment, I shall
endeavor, at some future time, to confirm my present judgement of Aldus by testing him in the
entire text of Pliny’s Letters. Further, despite Merrill’s researches and his brilliant analysis,
I am not convinced that the last word has been spoken on the nature of the transcript made
for Budaeus and incorporated in the Bodleian volume. I will not, however, venture on this broad
field until Professor Merrill, who has the first right to speak, is enabled to give to the
world his long-expected edition. Meanwhile, if my view is right, we owe to the acquisition
of the ancient fragment by the Pierpont Morgan Library a new confidence in the integrity of
Aldus, a clearer understanding of the history of the Letters in the early Middle Ages, and
a surer method of editing their text.

             DESCRIPTION OF PLATES.

Nos. I-XII. New York, The Pierpont Morgan Library, MS. M. 462. A fragment of 12 pages of an
uncial manuscript of the early sixth century. The fragment contains Pliny’s Letters, Book II,
xx. 13--Book III, v. 4. For a detailed description, see above, pp. 3 ff. The entire fragment
is here given, very slightly reduced. The exact size of the script is shown in Plate XX.

XIII-XIV. Florence, Laurentian Library MS. Ashburnham R 98, known as Codex Bellovacensis (B)
or Riccardianus (R), written in Caroline minuscule of the ninth century. See above, p. 44.
Our plates reproduce fols. 9 and 9v (slightly reduced), containing the end of Book II and the
beginning of Book III.

XV-XVI. Florence, Laurentian Library MS. San Marco 284, written in Caroline minuscule of the
tenth century. See above, pp. 44 f. Our plates reproduce fols. 56v and 57r, containing the
end of Book II and the beginning of Book III.

XVII-XVIII. Oxford, Bodleian Library, Auct. L 4. 3. See above, pp. 39 f. The lacuna in Book
VIII (216, 27-227, 10 Keil) is indicated by a cross (+) on fol. 136v (plate XVIIa). The missing
text is supplied on added leaves by the hand shown on plate XVIIb (= fol. 144). The variants
are in the hand of Budaeus. Plate XVIII contains fols. 32v and 33, showing the end of Book
II and the beginning of Book III.

XIX. Aldine edition of Pliny’s Letters, Venice 1508. Our plate reproduces the end of Book II
and the beginning of Book III.

XX. Specimens of three uncial manuscripts:

  (a) Berlin, Königl. Bibl. Lat. 4º 298, circa a. 447.

  (b) New York, The Pierpont Morgan Library, MS. M. 462, circa
  a. 500 (exact size).

  (c) Fulda, Codex Bonifatianus 1, ante a. 547.

