Joe and Ariel were alone with him, leaning toward him with such white anxiety that the colored
man needed no warning to make him remain silent in the hallway.  The veteran was speaking and
his voice was very weak, seeming to come from a great distance.

"It's mighty funny, but I feel like I used to when I was a little boy. I reckon I'm kind of
scared--after all.  Airie Tabor,--are you--here?"

"Yes, Mr. Arp."

"I thought--so--but I--I don't see very well--lately. I--wanted--to--know--to know--"

"Yes--to know?"  She knelt close beside him.

"It's kind of--foolish," he whispered.  "I just--wanted to know if you was still here.  It--don't
seem so lonesome now that I know."

She put her arm lightly about him and he smiled and was silent for a time.  Then he struggled
to rise upon his elbow, and they lifted him a little.

"It's hard to breathe," gasped the old man. "I'm pretty near--the big road.  Joe Louden--"

"Yes?"

"You'd have been--willing--willing to change places with me--just now--when Airie--"

Joe laid his hand on his, and Eskew smiled again. "I thought so!  And, Joe--"

"Yes?"

"You always--always had the--the best of that joke between us.  Do you--you suppose they charge
admission--up there?"  His eyes were lifted.  "Do you suppose you've got to--to show your good
deeds to git in?"  The answering whisper was almost as faint as the old man's.

"No," panted Eskew, "nobody knows.  But I hope--I do hope--they'll have some free seats. It's
a--mighty poor show--we'll--all have--if they--don't!"

He sighed peacefully, his head grew heavier on Joe's arm; and the young man set his hand gently
upon the unseeing eyes.  Ariel did not rise from where she knelt, but looked up at him when,
a little later, he lifted his hand.

"Yes," said Joe, "you can cry now."

XXII

MR. SHEEHAN SPEAKS

Joe helped to carry what was mortal of Eskew from Ariel's house to its final abiding-place.
With him, in that task, were Buckalew, Bradbury, the Colonel, and the grandsons of the two
latter, and Mrs. Louden drew in her skirts grimly as her step-son passed her in the mournful
procession through the hall.  Her eyes were red with weeping (not for Eskew), but not so red
as those of Mamie Pike, who stood beside her.

On the way to the cemetery, Joe and Ariel were together in a carriage with Buckalew and the
minister who had read the service, a dark, pleasant-eyed young man;--and the Squire, after
being almost overcome during the ceremony, experienced a natural reaction, talking cheerfully
throughout the long drive.  He recounted many anecdotes of Eskew, chuckling over most of them,
though filled with wonder by a coincidence which he and Flitcroft had discovered; the Colonel
had recently been made the custodian of his old friend's will, and it had been opened the day
before the funeral.  Eskew had left everything he possessed--with the regret that it was so
little--to Joe.

"But the queer thing about it," said the Squire, addressing himself to Ariel, "was the date
of it, the seventeenth of June.  The Colonel and I got to talkin' it over, out on his porch,
last night, tryin' to rec'lect what was goin' on about then, and we figgered it out that it
was the Monday after you come back, the very day he got so upset when he saw you goin' up to
Louden's law-office with your roses."

