We love an occasional stroll into the environs of London--on foot--and alone. On foot, because
we hate the machinery of a coach--and alone, because we have only our own leisure to consult,
and there is no time lost in "making up minds." On such occasions we have no set object in
view, but we determine to make "good in every thing." A book, great or small, is then to us
a great evil; and putting a map into one's pocket is about as absurd as Peter Fin's taking
Cook's Voyages on his journey to Brighton. We read the other day of a reviewer who started
from Charing Cross with a blue bag filled with books for his criticship: he read at Camberwell,
and he read at Dulwich--he wrote in the sanded and smoke-dried parlour of the Lion, the Lamb,
or the Fox--and he wrote whilst his steak was grilling at the auberge at Dulwich--and he went
home in a hackney-coach: "Lord how he went out--Lord how he came in." Another brother talks
of rambling in a secluded village field with Gilbert White's "Natural History of Selborne,"
or the "Journal of a Naturalist," in his hand. All this is very pleasant and mighty pretty;
but it is not true; and we stake our critical character that neither Gilbert White nor our
"Naturalist" did such things, or if they did, that they were not essential to their writings.
Making notes and comparing them with others, after a long walk, is another matter; but to walk
out into the country to read a book on natural philosophy is not indicative of a susceptible
mind. For our own part, we want no book but the broad volume of Nature--but to derive profit
as well as pleasure, we must go out with some of the philosophy of Nature in our hearts--for
walking is like travelling, (which is only a long walk,)--"a man must carry knowledge with
him, if he would bring home knowledge." We think Mr. Hazlitt talks of lying a whole day on
Salisbury Plain as one of his greatest enjoyments, and he is doubtless sincere. When we set
out on such a walk as we are about to take, with the reader's consent, we quote Thomson for
our exordium:--

  To me be Nature's volume broad display'd;
  And to peruse its all instructive page,

  *       *       *       *       *

  My sole delight; as through the falling glooms
  Pensive I stray, or with the rising dawn
  On Fancy's eagle wing excursive soar;

--and starting from our metropolis, we love to watch the ebbing of population, the dwindling
from groves of chimneys and worlds of bricks and mortar to tricksy cottages marshalled with
the plumb-line, or sprinkled over "farmy fields" facing Macadamized roads, and collecting more
dust in one month than would have ransomed all the captive kings of history, sacred or profane.
There we love to trace the ramifications of art from the steam and gas chimneys of the metropolis
to the quiet dell, in whose seclusion you might imagine yourself a hundred miles from town,
were it not for the hum of the great tun that is fretting and working at a distance. On the
road you enjoy scenes that are to be found in no printed book. Nay, every sign-board is a study.
Those near the town would do honour to the President's pencil; as you advance, they retrograde--and
as Art declines, Nature smiles still sweeter and softer in never-ending successions of woods
and groves, hills and dales, glassy lakes and pebbly streams, with all the variegated charms
of rustic life.

