THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. XIV, No. 383] SATURDAY, AUGUST 1, 1829. [PRICE 2d.

TUNBRIDGE WELLS.

References to the Characters in the Engraving.

1. Dr. Johnson.--2. Bishop of Salisbury (Dr. Gilbert.)--3. Lord Harcourt.--4. Cotley Cibber.--5.
Mr. Garrick.--6. Mrs. Frasi, the singer.--7. Mr. Nash.--8. Miss Chudleigh (Duchess of Kingston.)--9.
Mr. Pitt (Earl of Chatham.)--10. A. Onslow, Esq. (the Speaker.)--11. Lord Powis.--12. Duchess
of Norfolk.--13. Miss Peggy Banks--14. Lady Lincoln--15. Mr. (afterwards Lord) Lyttleton.--16.
The Baron (a German gamester.)--17. Samuel Richardson.--18. Mrs. Onslow.--20. Mrs. Johnson
(the Doctor's wife.)--21. Mr. Whiston--22. Loggan, the artist.--23. Woman of the Wells.

Tunbridge, or as old folks still call it, "the Wells," was a gay, anecdotical resort of the
last century, and about as different from the fashionable haunts of the present, as St. James's
is to Russel Square, or an old English mansion to the egg-shell architecture of yesterday.
In its best days, it was second only to Bath, and little did its belles and beaux dream of
the fishified village of Brighthelmstone, in the adjoining county, spreading to a city, and
being docked of its syllabic proportions to the Brighton of ears polite.

The annexed Engraving represents Tunbridge Wells about 80 years ago, or in the year 1748. It
is copied from a drawing which belonged to Samuel Richardson, the novelist, and was found among
his papers at his death in 1761. The original is in the possession of Sir Richard Phillips,
who published Richardson's Correspondence, in 1804; it contains portrait figures of all the
celebrated characters who were at Tunbridge Wells, in August, 1748, at which time Richardson
was likewise there, and beneath the drawing is the above key, or the names of the characters,
in the hand-writing of the novelist.

But the pleasantest illustration that we can supply is the following extract from one of Richardson's
Letters to Miss Westcomb, which represents the gaiety and flirtation of the place in very attractive
colours. At this time Richardson was at Tunbridge Wells for the benefit of his health; but
he says, "I had rather be in a desert, than in a place so public and so giddy, if I may call
the place so from its frequenters. But these waters were almost the only thing in medicine
that I had not tried; and, as my disorder seemed to increase, I was willing to try them. Hitherto,
I must own, without effect is the trial. But people here, who slide in upon me, as I traverse
the outermost edges of the walks, that I may stand in nobody's way, nor have my dizziness increased
by the swimming triflers, tell me I shall not give them fair play under a month or six weeks;
and that I ought neither to read nor write; yet I have all my town concerns upon me here, sent
me every post and coach, and cannot help it. Here are great numbers of people got together.
A very full season, and more coming every day--Great comfort to me."

"What if I could inform you, that among scores of belles, flatterers, triflers, who swim along
these walks, self-satisfied and pleased, and looking defiances to men (and to modesty, I had
like to have said; for bashfulness seems to be considered as want of breeding in all I see
here); a pretty woman is as rare as a black swan; and when one such starts up, she is nicknamed
a Beauty, and old fellows and young fellows are set a-spinning after her."

"Miss Banks (Miss Peggy Banks) was the belle when I came first down--yet she had been so many
seasons here, that she obtained but a faint and languid attention; so that the smarts began
to put her down in their list of had-beens. New faces, my dear, are more sought after than
fine faces. A piece of instruction lies here--that women should not make even their faces cheap."

"Miss Chudleigh next was the triumphant toast: a lively, sweet-tempered, gay, self-admired,
and not altogether without reason, generally-admired lady--she moved not without crowds after
her. She smiled at every one. Every one smiled before they saw her, when they heard she was
on the walk. She played, she lost, she won--all with equal good-humour. But, alas, she went
off, before she was wished to go off. And then the fellows' hearts were almost broken for a
new beauty."

"Behold! seasonably, the very day that she went away entered upon the walks Miss L., of Hackney!--Miss
Chudleigh was forgotten (who would wish for so transient a dominion in the land of fickledom!)--And
have you seen the new beauty?--And have you seen Miss L.? was all the inquiry from smart to
smartless. But she had not traversed the walks two days, before she was found to want spirit
and life. Miss Chudleigh was remembered by those who wished for the brilliant mistress, and
scorned the wifelike quality of sedateness--and Miss L. is now seen with a very silly fellow
or two, walking backwards and forwards unmolested--dwindled down from the new beauty to a very
quotes pretty girl; and perhaps glad to come off so. For, upon my word, my dear, there are
very few pretty girls here."

"But here, to change the scene, to see Mr. W----sh at eighty (Mr. Cibber calls him papa), and
Mr. Cibber at seventy-seven, hunting after new faces; and thinking themselves happy if they
can obtain the notice and familiarity of a fine woman!--How ridiculous!--If you have not been
at Tunbridge, you may nevertheless have heard that here are a parcel of fellows, mean traders,
whom they call touters, and their business, touting--riding out miles to meet coaches and company
coming hither, to beg their custom while here."

"Mr. Cibber was over head and ears in love with Miss Chudleigh. Her admirers (such was his
happiness!) were not jealous of him; but, pleased with that wit in him which they had not,
were always for calling him to her. She said pretty things--for she was Miss Chudleigh. He
said pretty things--for he was Mr. Cibber; and all the company, men and women, seemed to think
they had an interest in what was said, and were half as well pleased as if they had said the
sprightly things themselves; and mighty well contented were they to be secondhand repeaters
of the pretty things. But once I faced the laureate squatted upon one of the benches, with
a face more wrinkled than ordinary with disappointment 'I thought,' said I, 'you were of the
party at the tea-treats--Miss Chudleigh has gone into the tea-room.'--'Pshaw!' said he, 'there
is no coming at her, she is so surrounded by the toupets.'--And I left him upon the fret--But
he was called to soon after; and in he flew, and his face shone again, and looked smooth."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Another extraordinary old man we have had here, but of a very different turn; the noted Mr.
Whiston, showing eclipses, and explaining other phaenomena of the stars, and preaching the
millennium, and anabaptism (for he is now, it seems, of that persuasion) to gay people, who,
if they have white teeth, hear him with open mouths, though perhaps shut hearts; and after
his lecture is over, not a bit the wiser, run from him, the more eagerly to C----r and W----sh,
and to flutter among the loud-laughing young fellows upon the walks, like boys and girls at
a breaking-up."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Your affectionate and paternal friend and servant, S. RICHARDSON."

Richardson has mentioned only a few of the characters introduced in the Engraving. Johnson
was at that time but in his fortieth year, and much less portly than afterwards. Cibber is
the very picture of an old beau, with laced hat and flowing wig; half-a-dozen of his pleasantries
were worth all that is heard from all the playwrights and actors of our day--on or off the
stage: Garrick too, probably did not keep all his fine conceits within the theatre. Nos. 7,
8, and 9, in the Engraving, are a pretty group: Miss Chudleigh (afterwards Duchess of Kingston,)
between Beau Nash and Mr. Pitt (Earl of Chatham,) both of whom are striving for a side-long
glance at the sweet tempered, and as Richardson calls her, "generally-admired" lady. No. 17,
Richardson himself is moping along like an invalid beneath the trees, and avoiding the triflers.
Mrs. Johnson is widely separated from the Doctor, but is as well dressed as he could wish her;
and No. 21, Mr. Whiston is as unexpected among this gay crowd as snow in harvest. What a coterie
of wits must Tunbridge have possessed at this time: what assemblies and whistparties among
scores of spinsters, and ogling, dangling old bachelors; with high-heeled shoes, silken hose,
court hoops, embroidery, and point ruffles--only compare the Tunbridge parade of 1748 with
that of 1829.

We have room but for a brief sketch of Tunbridge Wells. The Springs, or the place itself, is
a short distance from the town of Tunbridge. The discovery of the waters was in the reign of
James I. Henrietta Maria, Queen of Charles I. staid here six weeks after the birth of the prince,
afterwards Charles II.; but, as no house was near, suitable for so great a personage, she and
her suite remained under tents pitched in the neighbourhood. The Wells, hitherto called Frant,
were changed to Queen's Mary's Wells: both have given place to Tunbridge Wells; though the
springs rise in the parish of Speldhurst.

Waller, in his Lines to Saccharissa,[1] celebrates the Tunbridge Waters; and Dr. Rowzee[2]
wrote a treatise on their virtues. During the civil wars, the Wells were neglected, but on
the Restoration they became more fashionable than ever.[3] Hence may be dated assembly rooms,
coffee houses, bowling greens, &c.; about which time, to suit the caprice of their owners,
many of the houses were wheeled upon sledges: a chapel[4] and a school were likewise erected.
The accommodations have been progressively augmented; and the population has greatly increased.
The trade of the place consists chiefly in the manufacture of the articles known as Tunbridge-ware.
The Wells have always been patronized by the royal family; and are still visited by some of
their branches.

Our Engraving represents the Upper, or principal walk, where are one of the assembly rooms,
the post-office, Tunbridge-ware, milliners, and other shops, with a row of spreading elms on
the opposite side. It is not uninteresting to notice the humble style of the shops, and the
wooden portico and tiled roofs, in the Engraving, and to contrast them with the ornamental
shop-architecture of our days: yet our forefathers, good old souls, thought such accommodations
worthy of their patronage, and there was then as much gaiety at Tunbridge Wells as at Brighton
in its best days.

[1] Saccharissa, or the Lady Dorothy Sydney, resided at Penshurst, near
    Tunbridge.

[2] He prescribed eighteen pints of the water for a morning's dose.

[4] "This chapel," says Hasted, "stands remarkably in three parishes--the
    pulpit in Speldhurst, the altar in Tunbridge, and the vestry in Frant.
    The stream also, which parted the counties of Kent and Sussex,
    formerly ran underneath it, but is now turned to a greater distance."
    --Hist. Kent, vol. iii.

       *       *       *       *       *

LOVE.

(For the Mirror.)

  Sing ye love? ye sing it not,
  It was never sung, I wot.
  None can speak the power of love,
  Tho' 'tis felt by all that move.
  It is known--but not reveal'd,
  'Tis a knowledge ever seal'd!
  Dwells it in the tearful eye
  Of congenial sympathy?
  'Tis a radiance of the mind,
  'Tis a feeling undefin'd,
  'Tis a wonder-working spell,
  'Tis a magic none can tell,
  'Tis a charm unutterable.

LEAR.

       *       *       *       *       *

GRAYSTEIL.[1]

AN HISTORICAL BALLAD.

(For the Mirror.)

  Beneath the Douglas plaid, he wore a grinding shirt of mail;
  Yet, spite of pain and weariness, press'd on that gallant Gael:
  On, on, beside his regal foe, with eyes which more express'd
  Than words, expecting favour still, from him who once caress'd!

  "'Tis," quoth the prince, "my poor Graysteil!" and spurr'd his steed
    amain,
  Striving, ere toiling Kilspindie, the fortalice to gain;
  But Douglas, (and his wither'd heart, with hope and dread, beat high)
  Stood at proud Stirling's castle-gate, as soon as royalty!

  Stood, on his ingrate friend to gaze; no answ'ring love-look came;
  Then, mortal grief his spirit shook, and bow'd his war-worn frame;
  Faith, innocence, avail'd not him! he suffer'd for his line,
  And fainting by the gate he sunk, but feebly call'd for wine!

  The menials came, "wine? up! begone! we marvel who thou art!
  Our monarch bids to France, Graysteil, his trusty friend depart!"
  Blood to the Douglas' cheek uprush'd: proud blood! away he hied,
  And soon afar, the "poor Graysteil," the broken hearted, DIED!

M.L.B.

Note--Graysteil (so called after the champion of a romance then popular) had returned from
banishment in the hope, as he was perfectly innocuous, of renewing his ancient friendship with
the Scottish king; and James declared that he would again have received him into his service,
but for his oath, never more to countenance a Douglas. He blamed his servants for refusing
refreshment to the veteran, but did not escape censure from our own Henry VIII. for his cruel
conduct towards his "poor Graysteil," upon this occasion.

[1] Archibald, of Kilspindie, a noble Douglas, and until the disgrace of
    his clan, a personal friend and favourite of James V. of Scotland. For
    the incidents of this ballad, vide Tales of a Grandfather, 1st
    Series, vol. 3.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO THE MEMORY OF SIR HUMPHRY DAVY, BART.

(For the Mirror.)

  To this low orb is lost a shining light.
  Useful, resplendent, and tho' transient, bright!
  For scarce has soaring genius reach'd the blaze
    Of fleeting life's meridian hour,
  Than Death around the naming meteor plays,
    And spreads its cypress o'er the short liv'd flower.
  The great projector of that grand design,[1]
  In time's remotest annals, long will shine;
  While sons of toil aloud proclaim his name,
  And life preserv'd perpetuate his fame.

[1] The Safety Lamp

       *       *       *       *       *

SODA WATER.

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

The following extract from a medical periodical on Soda Water, will not perhaps be deemed mal-apropos
at the present period of the year, and by being inserted in your widely circulated work may
be of some service to those who are not aware of the evil effects produced by a too free use
of that beverage.

M.M.M.

On this fashionable article, the editor remarks, Dr. Paris makes the following observations:--"The
modern custom of drinking this inviting beverage during, or immediately after dinner, has been
a pregnant source of indigestion. By inflating the stomach at such a period, we inevitably
counteract those muscular contractions of its coats which are essential to chymification, whilst
the quantity of soda thus introduced scarcely deserves notice; with the exception of the carbonic
acid gas, it may be regarded as water; more mischievous only in consequence of the exhilarating
quality, inducing us to take it at a period at which we would not require the more simple fluid."

In all the waters we have obtained from fountains in London and other places, under the names
of "Soda Water" and "double Soda Water," we have not been able to discover any soda. It is
common water mechanically super-saturated with fixed air, which on being disengaged and rarified
in the stomach, may, as Dr. Paris observes, so over distend the organ as to interrupt digestion,
or diminish the powers of the digestive organs. When acid prevails in the stomach, which is
generally the case the day after too free an indulgence in wine, true soda water, taken two
or three hours before dinner, or an hour before breakfast, not only neutralizes the acid, but
the fixed air, which is disengaged, allays the irritation, and even by distending the organ,
invigorates the muscular coat and nerves. As the quantity of soda, in the true soda water,
is much too small to neutralize the acid, it is a good practice to add fifteen or twenty grains
of the carbonate of soda, finely powdered, to each bottle, which may be done by pouring the
contents of a bottle on it in a large glass.

Of all the soda water we have examined, we have found that made by Mr. Johnson, to contain
the greatest quantity of soda. For the purpose of cooling the body during warm weather, and
quieting the stomach, which is generally in a state of increased irritation when the temperature
of the air is equal or within a few degrees of that of the body, it is preferable to any of
the vegetable or mineral acids.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE COSMOPOLITE.

SISTERS OF CHARITY.[1]

All the world, that is, one out of the two millions of people in this great town, know, that
the above is the title of a somewhat romantic drama, in which Miss Kelly is fast monopolizing
the tears and sympathies of the public by her impersonation of a Sister of Charity. To witness
it will do every heart good; and this is the highest aim of a dramatic representation. The
performance has had the effect of drawing our attention to the original of the character, which
is intensely interesting, though at the same time overtinged with romance.

Every six weeks' tourist has seen or heard of the Sisters of Charity on the Continent. They
are nurses in the hospitals there, but on a system very different from the hireling attendants
in similar institutions in England. Indeed, they may be said to have quitted the world to devote
themselves to the relief of those unfortunate persons, who people the abodes of misery and
distress. They form, it appears, a numerous body, consisting of several thousand members, who
are said to perform or superintend the administration of 300 hospitals in France. They are
united under several denominations, as nuns of those monastic communities which escaped the
storms of the revolution. Many of them are in the prime of life, and though not bound by absolute
vows, devote the whole of their time, and even die in the act of doing good. In spiritual matters,
they are under the jurisdiction of the bishop of the district in which the hospital is situated;
in temporal concerns they are subject to the authority of the heads of the establishment to
which they belong; but they are chiefly under the guidance of the superior of their order.
They are fed and lodged at the expense of the hospital, and receive in addition, a certain
stipend for the purchase of clothes. In the hospital at Lyons, (which forty or fifty years
ago, was the only hospital in France which was not in a barbarous state), there are about 150
of these Sisters, wearing a uniform dress of dark worsted, and remarkably clean. They receive
the trifling sum of forty francs a year for pocket-money, and sit up one night in each week;
the following is a day of relaxation, and the only one they have. During the siege of Lyons,
when cannon-balls passed through the windows, and struck the walls every moment, not one abandoned
her post near the sick.

Every one will rejoice at the existence of such offices as the Sisters of Charity--benign,
nay almost divine; and until this moment, we thought that such had been their real character.
Our belief has, however, been somewhat staggered by an article in the last number of the London
Review; in which the services of the Sisters are represented in a much less amiable light than
we have been accustomed to view them. This notice occurs in a paper on a work by Dr. David
Johnston, of Edinburgh, on the Public Charities of France. The Doctor, whose book abounds with
evidence of considerable research, thus speaks of the Sisters of Charity:--

"The inmate of an hospital is alone qualified to speak with justice of the blessings which
such attendance affords. Possessed of superior education, and from their religious profession
placed above many of the worldly considerations which affect nurses in general, the Sisters
of Charity act at once as temporal and spiritual comforters, watch over the sick bed, soothe
the prisoner in his confinement, and penetrate into the worst abodes of misery, to comfort
the distress, and instruct the ignorant."

Such we also thought had been their portraiture, although we could not so far speak from personal
evidence. But the reviewer gainsays all this, and even does more. After drawing a comparison,
and not altogether a just one, between the "Sisters of Charity in France," and ladies of fortune
who unostentatiously visit the sick poor in England, he says--

"It is matter of fact, generally observable in the instances of the soeurs de charité, that
in the performance of their duties towards the sick, during the first three or four months,
they display all that tender solicitude and devotedness, which romance ascribes to them as
constant and habitual. After the first feelings have subsided, the soeurs are found to consult,
in all their actions, first, their own interests, in ease and comfort; next, those of their
order, and of the servants on the establishment personally connected with them; and, last of
all, those of the patients. On an unprejudiced examination it will be found, that a body so
constituted as the soeurs, are extremely unfit for the performance of such functions as are
entrusted to them in these establishments. It is essential to the good performance of the duties
of a nurse, that she should be responsible to the medical officer for their omission. The soeurs
are entirely independent of any such control, and their usual answer to any complaint is, 'Je
reponds a mon crucifix.'"

"It is a great mistake to suppose that these nuns are enlightened, or well born, or well educated.
In general they are ignorant women, too poor and too deficient in personal qualities to find
husbands. They are proud, arrogant, and bigoted; and, with a few interesting exceptions, it
may be said of them, that they become nuns for want of better occupations; that they are characterized
by the ill temper of disappointment, at the world having neglected or rejected them, rather
than by any sublime elevation of feeling, which could have led them to reject the world. It
is a delusion to suppose that all the more important duties, on the due performance of which
the success of medical treatment mainly depends, devolve upon the soeurs. The fact is, that
it is one of the most serious defects of the French hospitals, that proper persons are not
procured to perform these services: such as waiting upon the patients, changing their linen,
moving them, and administering to their little wants, in a proper manner. In Paris there is
a class of men, the refuse of the working classes, who, when all means of support fail, apply
to the hospitals, and become infirmières. It will scarcely be believed, that to these men are
entrusted the important duties to which we have adverted, and which the Doctor seems to suppose
are chiefly performed by the soeurs. These infirmières receive for their services only six-and-eightpence
per month, besides their board and lodging in the house; and, as they can earn more at any
other occupation, they seldom remain long in their situations. The infirmières, or female servants,
are much of the same description: badly appointed, badly paid, negligent and rapacious, often
pilfering a portion of the allowance of provisions and wine prescribed to the patient for his
recovery. The general interference of the soeurs is prejudicial. Frequently, on the strength
of their own medical opinions, they will neglect the prescriptions; frequently they harass
a patient about his confession, when a calm state of mind is indispensable for his recovery.
They also often exercise their united influence against a medical man, to protect favourite
servants. They encumber all exertions for improvement, so that, whenever any change is discussed,
one of the first subjects for consideration is, whether the soeurs are likely to interfere.
Of late, however, their power has been somewhat checked. Under good regulations they might,
no doubt, be rendered serviceable; but every alteration of their condition, with regard to
the hospitals, to be an improvement, must bring them nearer to the superior condition of responsible
nurses, chosen for their aptitude, and remunerated according to their merits."

"We have been compelled to state thus much of these orders. The associations connected with
persons of their sex and supposed rank, who have taken the veil; their apparent devotedness
to such amiable and pre-eminently serviceable duties; their solemnity of exterior, and other
incidents--are so calculated to strike the eye and possess the imagination of the beholder,
that we are not surprised to perceive that they have misled the judgment of the Doctor, since
they constantly impose on others, who have better opportunities for observation. The soeur
de charité is too fine an object for the effusion of sentiment and romance, not to be made
the most of in these worldly and unpoetic times; and were it not that the illusions thrown
around this object might lead to practical errors, we should have refrained from disturbing them."

Feelings similar to those professed by the reviewer, have induced us to present the reader
with his new light, which we hope is a just one. Of the little system of plunder carried on
in some institutions at home, we can speak of one instance with certainty:--A relative near
and dear to us as life's blood, had by money and comforts, (which but for this incident would
have been kept secret), for many months relieved an inmate of a London hospital. The patient
was a poor, old female, in the last stage of decrepitude, and fast sinking beneath the sorrows
of life. She had seen happier days, and the only relic which she possessed of better fortune,
was a pair of silver framed spectacles; which, on her death-bed, she bequeathed to her benefactress.
The poor old woman's relations were dead, and this guardian-spirit who soothed her path to
the grave, was her only friend. Such an act of gratitude was, therefore, extremely affecting,
and her benefactress was anxious to possess the legacy--heaven knows, not for its intrinsic
value--but as a testimony of rare and unaffected gratitude; yet, will it be believed, that
the tempting bit of silver had not escaped the clutches of the nurses of the ward, and the
spectacles were not to be found! Our informant related the circumstance with tears of indignation;
we threatened to investigate the matter, yet her meek and mild spirit implored us to withhold:
she too passed from us a short time after, and is, we hope, gone where her good deeds will
not be forgotten.

PHILO.

[1] We give this paper as an illustration of the office of the Sisters of
    Charity. The incidents upon which the Drama is founded, are those of
    the Two Sisters of Ancona, a pretty little tale in the Juvenile
    Keepsake, by Mrs. Godwin. One sister in an attempt to carry provisions
    and intelligence to her lover, is taken prisoner by the French, and
    condemned to die; the other is a nun, who effects her escape by
    changing dresses, and remains, and actually perishes in her stead. On
    the stage, the sister is made the daughter of the Sister of Charity,
    and the fruit of a secret and unhappy connexion with a French officer,
    who proves to be the commander of the detachment--hence both their
    lives are saved.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER.

MONT BLANC.

The most interesting night of the late season of the Royal Institution, was the lecture or
narrative, given by Dr. Clarke of his ascent of Mont Blanc in 1825. Dr. Clarke led his audience
from Geneva to the summit, detailing the enterprise, which, however, he considers not by any
means so dangerous as has been represented. At 9,000 feet above the level of the Mediterranean
the air becomes extremely rarified, and the sky exhibits a blue-black appearance. He does not
consider it at all safe for persons to attempt the ascent, having a tendency to apoplexy, for
at the height of 15,000 feet above the level of the sea, the extremely rarified state of the
air, as well as the almost unbearable oppression of the sun's rays, though surrounded with
snow, would increase that tendency to an alarming extent. So oppressive is the sun, that on
sitting down in the shade he was asleep instantly. The passage, just above the Grande Plateau
(a surface of ice and snow, many acres in extent, 10,000 feet above the level of the sea) is
a point of great difficulty. This chink is about seven feet wide and of immeasurable depth.
To get over it the guides first proceed to render the passage more easy. He cautions travellers
to pay implicit attention to guides, as the accident in 1822, when three persons sunk into
the caverns of snow, was occasioned by this want of caution. It is appalling, said Dr. Clarke,
to be carried over an abyss of unknown depth, slung upon cords and drawn over. On arriving
at the summit of Mont Blanc the toils are amply repaid. Language cannot depict the scene before
the traveller. The eye wanders over immeasurable space. The sky appears to recede, and the
vision possesses double power. The Alpine scenery here is awfully grand, and the alternate
thaw and freezing (for when the sun is down it freezes rapidly) produces the most grotesque
figures. The only living creature found on the summit of Mont Blanc is a small white butterfly
(the ansonia,) which flits over the snow. The chamois is found 10,000 feet above the level
of the sea; Mont Blanc is 15,500 feet above the Mediterranean. Specimens were exhibited of
the compositions of all the mountains round Mont Blanc. Periodically an immense quantity of
snow falls down from the summit of the Mont, enough, as the guide said, to crush all Europe
like flies. "On throwing stones down the precipices, thousands of feet deep, the traveller
feels an almost irresistible desire to throw himself after them!"-- Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

FURIOUS DRIVING.

In going upon the road, in the United States, it is looked upon as a sort of slur on one, if
another pass him, going in the same direction; and this folly prevails to as great a degree
as amongst our break-neck coachmen; and you will see an old Quaker, whom, to look at, as he
sits perched in his wagon, you would think had been cut out of stone a couple of hundred years
ago; or hewed out of a log of wood, with the axe of some of the first settlers--if he hear
a rattle behind him, you will see him gently turn his head; if he be passing a tavern at the
time he pays little attention, and refrains from laying the whip upon the "creatures," seeing
that he is morally certain that the rattler will stop to take "a grog" at the tavern; but if
no such invitation present itself, and especially if there be a tavern two or three miles a-head,
he begins immediately to make provision against the consequences of the impatience of his rival,
who, he is aware, will push him hard, and on they go as fast as they can scamper, the successful
driver talking of the "glorious achievement" for a week.-- Cobbett.

       *       *       *       *       *

VILLAGE BELLS.

  ------'To the heart the solemn sweetness steals,
  Like the heart's voice, unfelt by none who feels
  That God is love, that man is living dust;
  Unfelt by none, whom ties of brotherhood
  Link to his kind; by none who puts his trust
  In naught of earth that hath surviv'd the flood,
  Save those mute charities, by which the good
  Strengthen poor worms, and serve their Maker best.

Village Patriarch.

       *       *       *       *       *

CURIOUS CONTRIVANCE.

In the Pampas, when the natives want a granary, they sew the legs of a whole skin up, and fill
it full of corn; it is then tied up to four stakes, with the legs hanging downwards, so that
it has the appearance of an elephant hanging up; the top is again covered with hides, which
prevent the rats getting in. In stretching a skin to dry, wood is so scarce in many parts of
the Pampas, that the rib bones are carefully preserved to supply its place, and used as pegs
to fix it in the ground. When a new-born infant is to be cradled, a square sheepskin is laced
to a small rude frame of wood, and suspended like a scale to a beam or rail.--Brand's Peru.

       *       *       *       *       *

SOUTH AMERICAN DINNER.

A recent traveller thus describes a dinner party at Mendoza:--The day of days arrived; the
carriage was flying about the town with a couple of mules, to bring all the ladies to dinner,
in order to meet the foreign gentlemen. We were all seated higgledy-piggledy at table, dish
after dish came in; every one helped themselves, no carving was required, being all made dishes.
The master of the house was walking round the room with his coat off, very comfortably smoking
his cigar, and between every fresh dish, of which there were some thirty or forty, the ladies
amused themselves with eating olives soaked in oil, and the colonel, (one of the military pedlars),
to prove that he understood foreign manners and customs, got the ladies one after another to
ask the foreign gentlemen to drink wine with them, which was no small ordeal for us to run
through. After these half hundred dishes, came the sweets; then the gentlemen's flints and
steels were going, the room soon filled with smoke, and the ladies retired to dress for the ball.

       *       *       *       *       *

EARLY HOURS.

We learn that Mr. Cobbett dines at twelve o'clock on suppawn and butcher's meat, that he sups
on bread and milk at six, that he goes to bed at nine, that he rises every morning of his life
at four; that before ten o'clock he has finished his writing for the day, and, that though
no man has written more than he has, that he never knew any one who enjoyed more leisure than
he does, and has done. "Now is there a man on earth who sits at a table, on an average, so
many hours in the day as I do? I do not believe that there is: and I say it, not with pride,
but with gratitude, that I do not believe that the whole world contains a man who is more constantly
blessed with health than I am. In winter I go to bed at nine, and I rise, if I do not oversleep
myself, at four, or between four and five. I have always a clear head; I am ready to take the
pen, or begin dictating, the moment I have lighted the fire, or it has been lighted for me,
and, generally speaking, I am seldom more than five minutes in bed before I am asleep."

       *       *       *       *       *

AN IRISH VILLAGE INN.

The form and plan in all parts of the country are pretty nearly the same, though the furniture
varies; the hospitable door (inns are proverbially hospitable) stands always open, but the
guests are sheltered from the thorough air by a screen, composed like the rest of the mansion,
of mud; the partition walls which separate it from the adjoining rooms reach no higher than
the spring of the roof, so that warmth and air, not to mention the grunting of pigs, and other
domestic sounds, are equally diffused through all parts of the tenement; from the rafters,
well blackened and polished with smoke, depend sundry flitches of bacon, dried salmon, and
so forth, and above them, if you know the ways of the house "may be you couldn't find (maybe
you couldn't means, maybe you could) a horn of malt or a cag of poteen, where the gauger couldn't
smell it." If you are very ignorant, you must be told, that poteen is the far famed liquor
which the Irish, on the faith of the proverb, "stolen bread is sweetest," prefer, in spite
of law, and--no--not of lawgivers, they drink it themselves, to its unsuccessful rival, parliament
whisky. Beneath the ample chimney, and on each side of the fire-place, run low stone benches,
the fire of turf or bog is made on the ground, and the pot for boiling the "mate, or potaties"
as the chance may be, suspended over it by an iron chain; so that sitting on the aforesaid
stone benches, you may inhale, like the gods, the savour of your dinner, while your frostbitten
shins are soothed at the same time by the fire which dresses it.--Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TRUE GENTLEMAN.

By a gentleman, we mean not to draw a line that would be invidious between high and low, rank
and subordination, riches and poverty. The distinction is in the mind. Whoever is open, loyal,
and true; whoever is of humane and affable demeanour; whoever is honourable in himself, and
in his judgment of others, and requires no law but his word to make him fulfil an engagement--such
a man is a gentleman: and such a man may be found among the tillers of the earth. But high
birth and distinction, for the most part, insure the high sentiment which is denied to poverty
and the lower professions. It is hence, and hence only, that the great claim their superiority;
and hence, what has been so beautifully said of honour, the law of kings, is no more than true:--

  It aids and strengthens virtue where it meets her,
  And imitates her actions where she is not.

De Vere.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROYAL PLANTERS.

Among the earliest and most successful planters was Count Maurice, of Nassau, who flourished
in the seventeenth century. This prince had the advantage of operating in the genial clime,
and with the fruitful soil of Brazil, of which in the year 1636, he was governor. He was a
man of taste and elegance, and adorned his palaces and gardens in that country with a magnificence
worthy of the satraps of the east. His residence was upon an island formed by the confluence
of two rivers, a place which before he commenced his improvements presented no very promising
subject, being a dreary, waste, and uncultivated plain, equally worthless and unattractive.
On this spot, however, he erected a splendid palace, laid out gardens around it of extraordinary
extent and magnificence; salubrity, seclusion, horticultural ornament were all studiously and
tastefully combined in the arrangement of the buildings; the choicest fruits of a tropical
climate, the orange, the citron, the ananas, with many others unknown to us, solicited at once
the sight, the smell, and the taste; artificial fountains of water preserved the coolness of
the air, and maintained the verdure of the earth; thirteen bastions and turrets flanked and
defended the gardens; and seven hundred trees of various sizes, of which some rose to thirty,
some to forty, and some to fifty feet high to the lowermost branches, were removed to the spot,
and arranged by the designer's skill in such a manner as to produce the most striking and splendid
effect. Some of these trees were of seventy and others of eighty years growth. Being skilfully
taken up they were placed carefully in carriages, conveyed over a space of from three to four
miles in extent, transported on rafts across both the rivers, and on being replanted in the
island, so favourable were both soil and vegetation in that genial climate, that they immediately
struck root, and even bore fruit during the first year after their removal.

Louis XIV. who, by the good efforts of the learned Jesuits, had been taught that the practice
of transplanting was well known to the Greeks and Romans, resolved to rival, and if possible,
to eclipse whatever had been achieved in this art by these distinguished nations. Accordingly,
among the stupendous changes made on the face of nature at Versailles and other royal residences,
immense trees were taken up by the roots, erected on carriages, and removed at the royal will
and pleasure. Almost the whole Bois de Boulogne was in this way said to be transported from
Versailles to its present site, a distance of about two leagues and a half. To order the march
of an army was the effort of common men, and every day commanders; to order the removal of
a forest seemed to suit the magnificent conception of a prince, who, in all his enterprises,
affected to act upon a scale immeasurably greater than that of his contemporaries. In the Bois
de Boulogne, in spite of military devastation, the curious eye may still distinguish, in the
rectilinear disposition of the trees, the traces of this extraordinary achievement.

At Potsdam, Frederick II., and at Warsaw, the last king of Poland transferred some thousands
of large trees, in order to embellish the royal gardens at those places; and at Lazenki, in
the suburbs of Warsaw, the far famed and unfortunate Stanislaus laid out the palace and grounds
in a style of luxuriance and magnificence which has, perhaps, never been surpassed since the
days of the Roman emperors. To add to the charm of this favourite spot, he removed some thousands
of trees and bushes with which the gardens and the park were adorned; both were frequently
thrown open to the public, and on these occasions, entertainments of unexampled splendour and
gaiety were given to the court and to the principal inhabitants of the capital, which are still
recollected with feelings of delight.--Stuart's Planter's Guide.--Westminster Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SKETCH-BOOK

MY FIRST INTERVIEW WITH SIR WALTER SCOTT.

By the Ettrick Shepherd.

One fine day in the summer of 1801, as I was busily engaged working in the field at Ettrick
House, Wat Shiel came over to me and said, that "I boud gang away down to the Ramseycleuch
as fast as my feet could carry me, for there war some gentlemen there wha wantit to speak to me."

"Wha can be at the Ramseycleuch that wants me, Wat?"

"I couldna say, for it wasna me that they spak to i' the byganging. But I'm thinking it's the
Shirra an' some o' his gang."

I was rejoiced to hear this, for I had seen the first volumes of "The Minstrelsy of the Border,"
and had copied a number of old things from my mother's recital, and sent them to the editor
preparatory for a third volume. I accordingly went towards home to put on my Sunday clothes,
but before reaching it I met with THE SHIRRA and Mr. William Laidlaw coming to visit me. They
alighted and remained in our cottage for a space better than an hour, and my mother chanted
the ballad of Old Maitlan' to them, with which Mr. Scott was highly delighted. I had sent him
a copy, (not a very perfect one, as I found afterwards, from the singing of another Laidlaw,)
but I thought Mr. Scott had some dread of a part being forged, that had been the cause of his
journey into the wilds of Ettrick. When he heard my mother sing it he was quite satisfied,
and I remember he asked her if she thought it had ever been printed, and her answer was, "Oo,
na, na, sir, it was never printed i' the world, for my brothers an' me learned it frae auld
Andrew Moor, an' he learned it, an' mony mae, frae are auld Baby Mettlin, that was housekeeper
to the first laird o' Tushilaw."

"Then that must be a very auld story, indeed, Margaret," said he.

"Ay, it is that! It is an auld story! But mair nor that, except George Warton and James Steward,
there was never ane o' my sangs prentit till ye prentit them yoursell, an' ye hae spoilt them
a'thegither. They war made for singing, an' no for reading; and they're neither right spelled
nor right setten down."

"Heh--heh--heh! Take ye that, Mr. Scott," said Laidlaw.

Mr. Scott answered by a hearty laugh, and the recital of a verse, but I have forgot what it
was, and my mother gave him a rap on the knee with her open hand, and said, "It was true enough,
for a' that."

We were all to dine at Ramseycleuch with the Messrs. Brydon, but Mr. Scott and Mr. Laidlaw
went away to look at something before dinner, and I was to follow. On going into the stable-yard
at Ramseycleuch I met with Mr. Scott's liveryman, a far greater original than his master, whom
I asked if the Shirra was come?

"O, ay, lad, the Shirra's come," said he. "Are ye the chiel that mak the auld ballads and sing
them?"

"I said I fancied I was he that he meant, though I had never made ony very auld ballads."

"Ay, then, lad, gae your ways in an' speir for the Shirra. They'll let ye see where he is.
He'll be very glad to see you."

During the sociality of the evening, the discourse ran very much on the different breeds of
sheep, that curse of the community of Ettrick Forest. The original black-faced Forest breed
being always called the short sheep, and the Cheviot breed the long sheep, the disputes at
that period ran very high about the practicable profits of each. Mr. Scott, who had come into
that remote district to preserve what fragments remained of its legendary lore, was rather
bored with the everlasting question of the long and the short sheep. So at length, putting
on his most serious calculating face, he turned to Mr. Walter Brydon and said, "I'm rather
at a loss regarding the merits of this very important question. How long must a sheep actually
measure to come under the denomination of a long sheep?"

Mr. Brydon, who, in the simplicity of his heart, neither perceived the quiz nor the reproof,
fell to answer with great sincerity,--"It's the woo, sir--it's the woo that makes the difference.
The lang sheep hae the short woo, and the short sheep hae the lang thing; and these are just
kind o' names we gie them like." Mr. Scott could not preserve his grave face of strict calculation;
it went gradually away, and a hearty guffaw followed. When I saw the very same words repeated
near the beginning of the Black Dwarf, how could I be mistaken of the author? It is true, Johnnie
Ballantyne persuaded me into a nominal belief of the contrary, for several years following,
but I could never get the better of that and several similar coincidences.

The next day we went off, five in number, to visit the wilds of Rankleburn, to see if on the
farms of Buccleuch there were any relics of the Castles of Buccleuch or Mount-Comyn, the ancient
and original possession of the Scotts. We found no remains of either tower or fortalice, save
an old chapel and churchyard, and a mill and mill-lead, where corn never grew, but where, as
old Satchells very appropriately says,

  Had heather-bells been corn of the best,
  The Buccleuch mill would have had a noble grist.

It must have been used for grinding the chief's blackmails, which it is known, were all paid
to him in kind. Many of these still continue to be paid in the same way; and if report says
true, he would be the better of a mill and kiln on some part of his land at this day, as well
as a sterling conscientious miller to receive and render.

Besides having been mentioned by Satchells, there was a remaining tradition in the country,
that there was a font stone of blue marble, in which the ancient heirs of Buccleuch were baptized,
covered up among the ruins of the old church. Mr. Scott was curious to see if we could discover
it; but on going among the ruins we found the rubbish at the spot, where the altar was known
to have been, digged out to the foundation,--we knew not by whom, but no font had been found.
As there appeared to have been a kind of recess in the eastern gable, we fell a turning over
some loose stones, to see if the font was not concealed there, when we came upon one half of
a small pot, encrusted thick with rust. Mr. Scott's eyes brightened, and he swore it was an
ancient consecrated helmet. Laidlaw, however, scratching it minutely out, found it covered
with a layer of pitch inside, and then said, "Ay, the truth is, sir, it is neither mair nor
less than a piece of a tar pat that some o' the farmers hae been buisting their sheep out o',
i' the auld kirk langsyne." Sir Walter's shaggy eyebrows dipped deep over his eyes, and suppressing
a smile, he turned and strode away as fast as he could, saying, that "We had just rode all
the way to see that there was nothing to be seen."

I remember his riding upon a terribly high spirited horse, who had the perilous fancy of leaping
every drain, rivulet, and ditch that came in our way; the consequence was, that he was everlastingly
bogging himself, while sometimes his rider kept his seat despite of his plunging, and at other
times he was obliged to extricate himself the best way he could. In coming through a place
called the Milsey Bog, I said to him, "Mr. Scott, that's the maddest deil of a beast I ever
saw. Can ye no gar him tak a wee mair time? He's just out o' ae lair intil another wi' ye."

"Ay," said he, "we have been very oft, these two days past, like the Pechs; we could stand
straight up and tie our shoes." I did not understand the joke, nor do I yet, but I think these
were his words.

We visited the old castles of Thirlestane and Tushilaw, and dined and spent the afternoon,
and the night, with Mr. Brydon, of Crosslee. Sir Walter was all the while in the highest good-humour,
and seemed to enjoy the range of mountain solitude, which we traversed, exceedingly. Indeed
I never saw him otherwise. In the fields--on the rugged mountains--or even toiling in Tweed
to the waist, I have seen his glee not only surpass himself, but that of all other men. I remember
of leaving Altrive Lake once with him, accompanied by the same Mr. Laidlaw, and Sir Adam Fergusson,
to visit the tremendous solitudes of The Grey Mare's Tail, and Loch Skene. I conducted them
through that wild region by a path, which, if not rode by Clavers, was, I daresay, never rode
by another gentleman. Sir Adam rode inadvertently into a gulf, and got a sad fright, but Sir
Walter, in the very worst paths, never dismounted, save at Loch Skene to take some dinner.
We went to Moffat that night, where we met with some of his family, and such a day and night
of glee I never witnessed. Our very perils were matter to him of infinite merriment; and then
there was a short-tempered boot-boy at the inn, who wanted to pick a quarrel with him, at which
he laughed till the water ran over his cheeks.

I was disappointed in never seeing some incident in his subsequent works laid in a scene resembling
the rugged solitude around Loch Skene, for I never saw him survey any with so much attention.
A single serious look at a scene generally filled his mind with it, and he seldom took another;
but here he took the names of all the hills, their altitudes, and relative situations with
regard to one another, and made me repeat them several times. It may occur in some of his works
which I have not seen, and I think it will, for he has rarely ever been known to interest himself,
either in a scene or a character, which did not appear afterwards in all its most striking
peculiarities. In the meantime, this is only a reminiscence, in my own line, of an illustrious
friend among the mountains.

The enthusiasm with which he recited, and spoke of our ancient ballads, during that first tour
of his through the forest, inspired me with a determination immediately to begin and imitate
them, which I did, and soon grew tolerably good at it.

Edinburgh Literary Journal.

       *       *       *       *       *

RETROSPECTIVE GLEANINGS.

NOTES OF A BOOKWORM.

(For the Mirror.)

Robberies and iniquities of all kinds were so uncommon in the reign of Alfred, that it is said,
he hung up golden bracelets near the highways, and no man dared to touch them.

The price of the King's head or his weregild, as it was then called, was by law, 30,000 thrismas,
near £1,300. of our present money. The price of the prince's head was 15,000 thrismas; a bishop's
or alderman's HEAD (quere, ought not the STOMACH to have been the part thus valued?) was valued
at 8,000; a sheriff's, 4,000; a thane's, or clergy-man's, 2,000; a ceorles, or husband-man's,
266. It must be understood that when a person was unwilling, or unable to pay the fine, he
was outlawed, and the kindred of the deceased might punish him as they thought proper.

Gervase, of Tilbury, says, that in Henry the First's time, bread sufficient for 100 men, for
a day, was rated at THREE SHILLINGS, or a shilling of that age.

By the laws of Ethelbert, any one who committed adultery with his neighbour's wife, was obliged
to pay him a fine, AND BUY HIM ANOTHER WIFE.

The tenants in the King's demesne lands, in the reign of Henry II., were compelled to supply,
GRATIS, the court with provisions and carriages, when the King went into any of the counties.
These exactions were so grievous, and levied in so licentious a manner, that at the approach
of the court, the farmers often deserted their houses, and sheltered themselves and families
in the woods, from the insults of the King's retinue.

Prince Henry, son of William I. disgusted at the little attention his brothers, Robert and
William, paid to him in an accommodation respecting the succession to the throne, retired to
St. Michael's Mount, in Normandy, and infested the neighbourhood with his forces.

CLARENCE.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

COBBETT'S CORN.

The most interesting article in the last Number of the Westminster Review, is a paper on Cobbett's
Corn, headed with the title of Mr. Cobbett's Treatise on the cultivation of the plant. The
reviewer has there interwoven some choice extracts from Mr. Cobbett's book, which together
with the connecting observations, we have abridged to suit our columns:--

The value of Indian Corn has never been disputed: it could not, by men who had ever seen the
corn of America, or the maize of the more southern districts of France. Its introduction into
England has not been speculated upon; for it was supposed there was an in limine objection,
that in our climate it would not ripen. In the more northern part of France, for the same reason,
its cultivation is not known, and in the map prefixed to Arthur Young's Travels in France and
other countries, may be seen a line drawn across the country, which line he considered was
the limit of the maize country. Neither has this experiment till now been tried, for Cobbett's
corn is a different variety of Indian or American, from that cultivated either in the new or
old world. It appears that it is a dwarfish species, and one which will not only ripen in this
country, but produce results of fertility beyond that calculated upon in the United States
in the most prosperous seasons. It was an accident which threw it into Mr. Cobbett's hands:
his son brought some seeds from plants growing in a gentleman's garden in the French province
of Artois, and it was only at his son's repeated entreaty that he was prevailed upon to try
its effects. And even this entreaty from a son might not have prevailed, had not the influence
of a sleepless night from the heat of summer, led to a conversation to be followed by results
so important.

"In the month of June, 1827," says Mr. Cobbett, "my son and I slept one night in the same room
in the garden-house at Barn-elm. The night was very hot, and neither his bed nor mine was cool
enough to permit us to get to sleep, in a case like which, people generally get to talking;
and I, in a mood, half between restlessness and laziness, asked him, whether Mr. Walker had
planted his corn. He said he had; and that led him off into a train of arguing, the object
of which was, to maintain his former opinion relative to the great benefits that would attend
the cultivation of this crop. He entered into a calculation of the distances, the space of
ground required by each plant, the number of plants upon an acre, the number of ears upon a
plant, the quantity of seed upon an ear, ending in a statement of the amount of the crop per
acre. He then dwelt upon the quantity and value of the fodder, upon the facility of cultivation,
upon the small quantity of seed required for an acre; and, finally, upon the preparation which
the growing of the crop would make for a succeeding crop of wheat.

"I do confess, that I was very hard to be convinced; I became interested to be sure, and I
resolved to give the thing a trial immediately, if possible, or rather to set about it immediately;
but, I confess, that if the thing had been urged upon me by almost any other person, I should
not have done it. 'Well, then,' said I, 'William, we will give your little corn a trial, for
it is not too late yet.' But now a difficulty that appeared to be insuperable arose; namely,
that the seed was all gone! The seed was all planted in Sussex. As soon as I reflected on this,
I became really eager to make the experiment; so true it is, that we seldom know the full value
of what we have had, till we have lost it. I recollected, however, that I had rather recently
seen an ear or two of this corn in some seed-drawers that I had in the garden-house, not being
quite sure, however, that they were of the true sort; and now I, who had so long turned from
the subject rather with indifference, could not go to sleep for my doubts, my hopes, and fears,
about these two bits of ears of corn. We had no light, or I should have got up to go and hunt
the boxes, which I did as soon as day-light appeared, and there, to my great joy, I found two
bits of ears of corn, which from the size and shape of the cobb, I knew to be of the true sort.
This was upon the 8th of June in the morning."

Indian corn is a kind of corn tree, so that it would be exempt from the sneer of the Tartars
who despise the men that live on "the top of a weed." The top of Indian Corn supplies the place
of hay or of straw for fodder: it is the flower of the plant, and bears the farina like the
wheat-ear, but the grains are deposited in the ears which come out of the stalk lower down.
These ears are enveloped in their leaves which are called the husk. The number of ears varies
in different plants, three is the common number. Seven are a curiosity. One stalk in Mr. Cobbett's
field bore seven ears, and Mr. Cobbett, jun. sent it as a present to the king's gardener at
Kew, comparing it to that "one stalk mentioned in Pharaoh's dream of the seven years of plenty."
For it must not be forgotten that Mr. Cobbett maintains that Indian corn is the true corn of
scripture, and defends this opinion by many plausible arguments. We have no room to discuss
them, and shall only observe in contravention, that Indian corn is not now known in Palestine
or Syria, and that it is dangerous to raise a verbal discussion founded upon a translation.
His argument is, however, well worth the attention of all our biblical readers. In America
the Indian corn alone monopolizes the name of corn: all other corn is called grain: so important
is the cultivation of it there, that it puzzles the Yankees exceedingly to know how the old
country can get on without corn; and so identified is the great roll of grain, with the name
of an ear of corn, that when Mr. Cobbett once read an account to an American farmer, of a young
English lord lying dangerously ill from having swallowed an ear of corn; the man started up
and exclaimed, a whole ear of corn! no wonder that poor John Bull is in such a miserable state,
when his lords have got swallows like that.

The Indian corn being a large plant requires both air and space: it is consequently raised
in hills far apart, after the manner of our hop plants; and reckons upon a deep ploughing between
the hills after it is partly grown up for a supply of health and vigour. This great distance
between the hills, sometimes placed four feet apart one way, and five feet apart another way,
and the height of the plant with its lofty top and its lateral ears form a far different picture
than that presented by an English corn field. Cobbett's or the dwarf corn is, however, only
four feet high: he planted his in rows three feet apart, which distance he is inclined to think
is too small. "Three feet do not give room for good, true, and tolerably deep ploughing: and
that is the main thing in the cultivation of corn, which indeed will not thrive well, if the
ground be not deeply moved, and very near to the plants to which they are growing. You will
see in America a field of corn late in June, perhaps, which has not been ploughed, looking
to-day sickly and sallow. Look at it only in four days' time, if ploughed the day after you
saw it, and its colour is totally changed. Five feet are accordingly recommended as the distance
between the rows, and six inches only between the plants."

A great advantage of Indian or Cobbett's corn is, that it occupies the ground for little more
than half the year: it is planted in May or June, and ripens in November. Unlike common corn
or grain, where there is generally a superabundance of blades, every plant of Indian corn is
of importance: it cannot be spared; and as the sweetness of the early growth renders it a tempting
prey to birds, insects, and rabbits, it becomes necessary to guard against their encroachments
with the most lively care.

Weeds are to be instantly put down on their first appearance, or corn is not to be expected;
"the poor corn-plant, if left to itself, will soon be like Gulliver when bound down by the
Lilliputians." The hoe is the instrument to be used on this occasion, and then the plough;
the latter operation is repeated twice; two double ploughings are the death of weeds, and the
life of the plants; the first takes place when the corn is from six to eight inches high, and
the second, about the middle of July, or earlier, when the plants are about a foot and a half
high, or from that to two feet. "Let no one," says Cobbett, "be afraid of their tearing about
the roots of the plants, when they are at this advanced age and height;" and in encouraging
them to pursue the work resolutely and fearlessly, he tells them of the way in which the Yankee
farmer manages the matter, and digresses, as he loves to digress, into a picture of manners,
or an old recollection.

"Ninety-nine of my readers out of a hundred, and I dare say, nine hundred and ninety-nine out
of a thousand, will shudder at the thought of tearing about in this manner; thinking that breaking-off,
tearing-off, cutting-off the roots of such large plants, just as they are coming into bloom,
must be a sort of work of destruction. Let them read the book of Mr. Tull; or let them go and
see my friends the Yankees, who generally drive the thing off to the last moment, especially
if they be young enough to have a 'frolic' stand between them and the ploughing of the corn;
or if the wife want the horses to go ten or twenty miles to have a gossip with a neighbour
over a comfortable cup of tea; but they, to do them justice, do not forget the beef steaks,
or the barbecued fowls, on these occasions; that is to say, a fowl caught up in the yard, scalded
in a minute, cleaned the next, and splitted down the back, and clapped upon the gridiron (favourite
implement of mine,) and then upon the table, along with the hot cakes, the preserved peaches,
and the comfortable cup of tea. If a wife want the horses for this purpose, or for any other,
and should continue too long a time in a visiting or frolicing humour, the poor corn gives
signs of the consequence, by becoming yellow, and sharp-pointed at the blade. By and by, however,
the Yankee comes with his plough; and it would frighten an English farmer out of his senses
to see how he goes on, swearing at the horses, and tearing about the ground, and tumbling it
up against the plants; but, at any rate, moving it all pretty deeply, somehow or other. I have
seen them do this when the tassel was nearly at its full height, and when the silk was appearing
from the ears. One rule is invariable; that is, that if the corn be not ploughed at all there
will be no crop; there will be tassel, and the semblance of ears; but (upon ordinary land,
at least,) there will be no crop at all."

(To be concluded in our next.)

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

  "A snapper-up of unconsidered trifles."

      SHAKSPEARE.

ONE WAY TO DIE FOR LOVE.

A lady, nearly related to the writer, having a great partiality (though married) for the feline
race, particularly lavished favours upon a young and beautiful cat, whom she constantly fed,
taught to perform several pleasing tricks, and in short made of the animal such a companion,
that she never liked it to be out of her sight. She had also in her service a cook, who boasted
not of partialities for any living creature, save a village youth, for whom she cherished a
flame that rivalled the bright and ardent fire of her own kitchen; to him she generously assigned
as a hiding place and rendezvous, the corner of an out-house, to which she frequently stole
in order to enjoy a téte à téte with her admirer. Thither also stole puss, either in gratitude
for past savoury benefactions, or in anticipation of future. But the lady of the house, frequently
missing her favourite, and tracing her one day into the place of rendezvous, thus unluckily
effected the discovery of cook and her swain. The damsel apprehending that such interruptions
to their interviews might, from the gourmandizing propensities of the favourite, be frequent,
determined to prevent them for ever; the very next time that puss, as usual, followed her,
seizing with savage exultation the harmless creature, she severed with a huge carving knife,
its head from its body! An exploit truly worthy of the tender passion, and the gentle sex!

M.L.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

George I. was remarkably fond of seeing the play of Henry VIII. which had something in it that
seemed to hit the taste of that monarch. One night being very attentive to that part of the
play where Henry VIII. commands his minister, Wolsey, to write circular letters of indemnity
to every county where the payment of certain heavy taxes had been disputed, and remarking the
manner in which the minister artfully communicated these commands to his secretary, Cromwell,
whispering thus:--

  "A word with you:
  Let there be letters writ to every shire
  Of the King's grace and pardon; the griev'd commons
  Hardly conceive of me--Let it be nois'd
  That thro' our intercession this revokement
  And pardon comes."----

--The king could not help smiling at the craft of the minister, in filching from his master
the merit of the action, though he himself had been the author of the evil complained of; and
turning to the Prince of Wales, said, "You see, George, what you have one day to expect; an
English minister will be an English minister in every age and in every reign."

W.C.R.R.

       *       *       *       *       *

AN "INDWELLING" JOKE.

A certain would-be bibliopole, desirous of emulating the Constables, Boyds, and Colburns of
this century, lately opened a couple of windows at Johnston, and exhibited the beautiful wood-cuts
on the title page of the Shorter Catechism to the wondering amateurs of the fine arts there
with so much success, as to induce him to become printer and publisher. Forthwith he set to
throwing off an impression of a thousand copies--he was fond of round numbers--of a work "on
Indwelling Sin." It threatened to be an indwelling sore in his shop; and he set off to Campbelton
to sell a few in that pious place. A tobacco-seller and grocer gave him a cask of whisky for
the lot--which, on his return, he disposed of to a popular publican; and now, when the wags
of the place seek to wet their whistle, they gravely call for "a gill of indwelling sin!"--Edinburgh
Literary Journal.

       *       *       *       *       *

Learning is like mercury, one of most powerful and excellent things in the world in skilful
hands; in unskilful, the most mischievous.--Pope.

