But this truth was most satisfactorily demonstrated when civilization reached the banks of
the Ohio. The stream which the Indians had distinguished by the name of Ohio, or Beautiful
River, waters one of the most magnificent valleys that has ever been made the abode of man.
Undulating lands extend upon both shores of the Ohio, whose soil affords inexhaustible treasures
to the laborer; on either bank the air is wholesome and the climate mild, and each of them
forms the extreme frontier of a vast State: That which follows the numerous windings of the
Ohio upon the left is called Kentucky, that upon the right bears the name of the river. These
two States only differ in a single respect; Kentucky has admitted slavery, but the State of
Ohio has prohibited the existence of slaves within its borders. *h

[Footnote h: Not only is slavery prohibited in Ohio, but no free negroes are allowed to enter
the territory of that State, or to hold property in it. See the Statutes of Ohio.]

Thus the traveller who floats down the current of the Ohio to the spot where that river falls
into the Mississippi, may be said to sail between liberty and servitude; and a transient inspection
of the surrounding objects will convince him as to which of the two is most favorable to mankind.
Upon the left bank of the stream the population is rare; from time to time one descries a troop
of slaves loitering in the half-desert fields; the primaeval forest recurs at every turn; society
seems to be asleep, man to be idle, and nature alone offers a scene of activity and of life.
From the right bank, on the contrary, a confused hum is heard which proclaims the presence
of industry; the fields are covered with abundant harvests, the elegance of the dwellings announces
the taste and activity of the laborer, and man appears to be in the enjoyment of that wealth
and contentment which is the reward of labor. *i

[Footnote i: The activity of Ohio is not confined to individuals, but the undertakings of the
State are surprisingly great; a canal has been established between Lake Erie and the Ohio,
by means of which the valley of the Mississippi communicates with the river of the North, and
the European commodities which arrive at New York may be forwarded by water to New Orleans
across five hundred leagues of continent.]

The State of Kentucky was founded in 1775, the State of Ohio only twelve years later; but twelve
years are more in America than half a century in Europe, and, at the present day, the population
of Ohio exceeds that of Kentucky by two hundred and fifty thousand souls. *j These opposite
consequences of slavery and freedom may readily be understood, and they suffice to explain
many of the differences which we remark between the civilization of antiquity and that of our
own time.

[Footnote j: The exact numbers given by the census of 1830 were: Kentucky, 688,-844; Ohio,
937,679. [In 1890 the population of Ohio was 3,672,316, that of Kentucky, 1,858,635.]]

Upon the left bank of the Ohio labor is confounded with the idea of slavery, upon the right
bank it is identified with that of prosperity and improvement; on the one side it is degraded,
on the other it is honored; on the former territory no white laborers can be found, for they
would be afraid of assimilating themselves to the negroes; on the latter no one is idle, for
the white population extends its activity and its intelligence to every kind of employment.
Thus the men whose task it is to cultivate the rich soil of Kentucky are ignorant and lukewarm;
whilst those who are active and enlightened either do nothing or pass over into the State of
Ohio, where they may work without dishonor.

It is true that in Kentucky the planters are not obliged to pay wages to the slaves whom they
employ; but they derive small profits from their labor, whilst the wages paid to free workmen
would be returned with interest in the value of their services. The free workman is paid, but
he does his work quicker than the slave, and rapidity of execution is one of the great elements
of economy. The white sells his services, but they are only purchased at the times at which
they may be useful; the black can claim no remuneration for his toil, but the expense of his
maintenance is perpetual; he must be supported in his old age as well as in the prime of manhood,
in his profitless infancy as well as in the productive years of youth. Payment must equally
be made in order to obtain the services of either class of men: the free workman receives his
wages in money, the slave in education, in food, in care, and in clothing. The money which
a master spends in the maintenance of his slaves goes gradually and in detail, so that it is
scarcely perceived; the salary of the free workman is paid in a round sum, which appears only
to enrich the individual who receives it, but in the end the slave has cost more than the free
servant, and his labor is less productive. *k

[Footnote k: Independently of these causes, which, wherever free workmen abound, render their
labor more productive and more economical than that of slaves, another cause may be pointed
out which is peculiar to the United States: the sugar-cane has hitherto been cultivated with
success only upon the banks of the Mississippi, near the mouth of that river in the Gulf of
Mexico. In Louisiana the cultivation of the sugar-cane is exceedingly lucrative, and nowhere
does a laborer earn so much by his work, and, as there is always a certain relation between
the cost of production and the value of the produce, the price of slaves is very high in Louisiana.
But Louisiana is one of the confederated States, and slaves may be carried thither from all
parts of the Union; the price given for slaves in New Orleans consequently raises the value
of slaves in all the other markets. The consequence of this is, that in the countries where
the land is less productive, the cost of slave labor is still very considerable, which gives
an additional advantage to the competition of free labor.]

The influence of slavery extends still further; it affects the character of the master, and
imparts a peculiar tendency to his ideas and his tastes. Upon both banks of the Ohio, the character
of the inhabitants is enterprising and energetic; but this vigor is very differently exercised
in the two States. The white inhabitant of Ohio, who is obliged to subsist by his own exertions,
regards temporal prosperity as the principal aim of his existence; and as the country which
he occupies presents inexhaustible resources to his industry and ever-varying lures to his
activity, his acquisitive ardor surpasses the ordinary limits of human cupidity: he is tormented
by the desire of wealth, and he boldly enters upon every path which fortune opens to him; he
becomes a sailor, a pioneer, an artisan, or a laborer with the same indifference, and he supports,
with equal constancy, the fatigues and the dangers incidental to these various professions;
the resources of his intelligence are astonishing, and his avidity in the pursuit of gain amounts
to a species of heroism.

But the Kentuckian scorns not only labor, but all the undertakings which labor promotes; as
he lives in an idle independence, his tastes are those of an idle man; money loses a portion
of its value in his eyes; he covets wealth much less than pleasure and excitement; and the
energy which his neighbor devotes to gain, turns with him to a passionate love of field sports
and military exercises; he delights in violent bodily exertion, he is familiar with the use
of arms, and is accustomed from a very early age to expose his life in single combat. Thus
slavery not only prevents the whites from becoming opulent, but even from desiring to become so.

As the same causes have been continually producing opposite effects for the last two centuries
in the British colonies of North America, they have established a very striking difference
between the commercial capacity of the inhabitants of the South and those of the North. At
the present day it is only the Northern States which are in possession of shipping, manufactures,
railroads, and canals. This difference is perceptible not only in comparing the North with
the South, but in comparing the several Southern States. Almost all the individuals who carry
on commercial operations, or who endeavor to turn slave labor to account in the most Southern
districts of the Union, have emigrated from the North. The natives of the Northern States are
constantly spreading over that portion of the American territory where they have less to fear
from competition; they discover resources there which escaped the notice of the inhabitants;
and, as they comply with a system which they do not approve, they succeed in turning it to
better advantage than those who first founded and who still maintain it.

Were I inclined to continue this parallel, I could easily prove that almost all the differences
which may be remarked between the characters of the Americans in the Southern and in the Northern
States have originated in slavery; but this would divert me from my subject, and my present
intention is not to point out all the consequences of servitude, but those effects which it
has produced upon the prosperity of the countries which have admitted it.

The influence of slavery upon the production of wealth must have been very imperfectly known
in antiquity, as slavery then obtained throughout the civilized world; and the nations which
were unacquainted with it were barbarous. And indeed Christianity only abolished slavery by
advocating the claims of the slave; at the present time it may be attacked in the name of the
master, and, upon this point, interest is reconciled with morality.

As these truths became apparent in the United States, slavery receded before the progress of
experience. Servitude had begun in the South, and had thence spread towards the North; but
it now retires again. Freedom, which started from the North, now descends uninterruptedly towards
the South. Amongst the great States, Pennsylvania now constitutes the extreme limit of slavery
to the North: but even within those limits the slave system is shaken: Maryland, which is immediately
below Pennsylvania, is preparing for its abolition; and Virginia, which comes next to Maryland,
is already discussing its utility and its dangers. *l

[Footnote l: A peculiar reason contributes to detach the two last-mentioned States from the
cause of slavery. The former wealth of this part of the Union was principally derived from
the cultivation of tobacco. This cultivation is specially carried on by slaves; but within
the last few years the market-price of tobacco has diminished, whilst the value of the slaves
remains the same. Thus the ratio between the cost of production and the value of the produce
is changed. The natives of Maryland and Virginia are therefore more disposed than they were
thirty years ago, to give up slave labor in the cultivation of tobacco, or to give up slavery
and tobacco at the same time.]

No great change takes place in human institutions without involving amongst its causes the
law of inheritance. When the law of primogeniture obtained in the South, each family was represented
by a wealthy individual, who was neither compelled nor induced to labor; and he was surrounded,
as by parasitic plants, by the other members of his family who were then excluded by law from
sharing the common inheritance, and who led the same kind of life as himself. The very same
thing then occurred in all the families of the South as still happens in the wealthy families
of some countries in Europe, namely, that the younger sons remain in the same state of idleness
as their elder brother, without being as rich as he is. This identical result seems to be produced
in Europe and in America by wholly analogous causes. In the South of the United States the
whole race of whites formed an aristocratic body, which was headed by a certain number of privileged
individuals, whose wealth was permanent, and whose leisure was hereditary. These leaders of
the American nobility kept alive the traditional prejudices of the white race in the body of
which they were the representatives, and maintained the honor of inactive life. This aristocracy
contained many who were poor, but none who would work; its members preferred want to labor,
consequently no competition was set on foot against negro laborers and slaves, and, whatever
opinion might be entertained as to the utility of their efforts, it was indispensable to employ
them, since there was no one else to work.

No sooner was the law of primogeniture abolished than fortunes began to diminish, and all the
families of the country were simultaneously reduced to a state in which labor became necessary
to procure the means of subsistence: several of them have since entirely disappeared, and all
of them learned to look forward to the time at which it would be necessary for everyone to
provide for his own wants. Wealthy individuals are still to be met with, but they no longer
constitute a compact and hereditary body, nor have they been able to adopt a line of conduct
in which they could persevere, and which they could infuse into all ranks of society. The prejudice
which stigmatized labor was in the first place abandoned by common consent; the number of needy
men was increased, and the needy were allowed to gain a laborious subsistence without blushing
for their exertions. Thus one of the most immediate consequences of the partible quality of
estates has been to create a class of free laborers. As soon as a competition was set on foot
between the free laborer and the slave, the inferiority of the latter became manifest, and
slavery was attacked in its fundamental principle, which is the interest of the master.

As slavery recedes, the black population follows its retrograde course, and returns with it
towards those tropical regions from which it originally came. However singular this fact may
at first appear to be, it may readily be explained. Although the Americans abolish the principle
of slavery, they do not set their slaves free. To illustrate this remark, I will quote the
example of the State of New York. In 1788, the State of New York prohibited the sale of slaves
within its limits, which was an indirect method of prohibiting the importation of blacks. Thenceforward
the number of negroes could only increase according to the ratio of the natural increase of
population. But eight years later a more decisive measure was taken, and it was enacted that
all children born of slave parents after July 4, 1799, should be free. No increase could then
take place, and although slaves still existed, slavery might be said to be abolished.

From the time at which a Northern State prohibited the importation of slaves, no slaves were
brought from the South to be sold in its markets. On the other hand, as the sale of slaves
was forbidden in that State, an owner was no longer able to get rid of his slave (who thus
became a burdensome possession) otherwise than by transporting him to the South. But when a
Northern State declared that the son of the slave should be born free, the slave lost a large
portion of his market value, since his posterity was no longer included in the bargain, and
the owner had then a strong interest in transporting him to the South. Thus the same law prevents
the slaves of the South from coming to the Northern States, and drives those of the North to
the South.

The want of free hands is felt in a State in proportion as the number of slaves decreases.
But in proportion as labor is performed by free hands, slave labor becomes less productive;
and the slave is then a useless or onerous possession, whom it is important to export to those
Southern States where the same competition is not to be feared. Thus the abolition of slavery
does not set the slave free, but it merely transfers him from one master to another, and from
the North to the South.

The emancipated negroes, and those born after the abolition of slavery, do not, indeed, migrate
from the North to the South; but their situation with regard to the Europeans is not unlike
that of the aborigines of America; they remain half civilized, and deprived of their rights
in the midst of a population which is far superior to them in wealth and in knowledge; where
they are exposed to the tyranny of the laws *m and the intolerance of the people. On some accounts
they are still more to be pitied than the Indians, since they are haunted by the reminiscence
of slavery, and they cannot claim possession of a single portion of the soil: many of them
perish miserably, *n and the rest congregate in the great towns, where they perform the meanest
offices, and lead a wretched and precarious existence.

[Footnote m: The States in which slavery is abolished usually do what they can to render their
territory disagreeable to the negroes as a place of residence; and as a kind of emulation exists
between the different States in this respect, the unhappy blacks can only choose the least
of the evils which beset them.]

[Footnote n: There is a very great difference between the mortality of the blacks and of the
whites in the States in which slavery is abolished; from 1820 to 1831 only one out of forty-two
individuals of the white population died in Philadelphia; but one negro out of twenty-one individuals
of the black population died in the same space of time. The mortality is by no means so great
amongst the negroes who are still slaves. (See Emerson's "Medical Statistics," p. 28.)]

But even if the number of negroes continued to increase as rapidly as when they were still
in a state of slavery, as the number of whites augments with twofold rapidity since the abolition
of slavery, the blacks would soon be, as it were, lost in the midst of a strange population.

A district which is cultivated by slaves is in general more scantily peopled than a district
cultivated by free labor: moreover, America is still a new country, and a State is therefore
not half peopled at the time when it abolishes slavery. No sooner is an end put to slavery
than the want of free labor is felt, and a crowd of enterprising adventurers immediately arrive
from all parts of the country, who hasten to profit by the fresh resources which are then opened
to industry. The soil is soon divided amongst them, and a family of white settlers takes possession
of each tract of country. Besides which, European emigration is exclusively directed to the
free States; for what would be the fate of a poor emigrant who crosses the Atlantic in search
of ease and happiness if he were to land in a country where labor is stigmatized as degrading?

Thus the white population grows by its natural increase, and at the same time by the immense
influx of emigrants; whilst the black population receives no emigrants, and is upon its decline.
The proportion which existed between the two races is soon inverted. The negroes constitute
a scanty remnant, a poor tribe of vagrants, which is lost in the midst of an immense people
in full possession of the land; and the presence of the blacks is only marked by the injustice
and the hardships of which they are the unhappy victims.

