OBSERVATIONS UPON THE PROPHECIES OF DANIEL, AND THE APOCALYPSE OF St. JOHN.

       *       *       *       *       *

In Two PARTS.

       *       *       *       *       *

By Sir ISAAC NEWTON.

       *       *       *       *       *

LONDON,

Printed by J. DARBY and T. BROWNE in Bartholomew-Close.

And Sold by J. ROBERTS in Warwick-lane, J. TONSON in the Strand, W. INNYS and R. MANBY at the
West End of St. Paul's Church-Yard, J. OSBORN and T. LONGMAN in Pater-Noster-Row, J. NOON near
Mercers Chapel in Cheapside, T. HATCHETT at the Royal Exchange, S. HARDING in St. Martin's
lane, J. STAGG in Westminster-Hall, J. PARKER in Pall-mall, and J. BRINDLEY in New Bond-Street.

M.DCC.XXXIII.

       *       *       *       *       *

To the Right Honourable

P E T E R

Lord K I N G,

Baron of Ockham, Lord High Chancellor of Great-Britain.

My Lord,

I shall make no Apology for addressing the following Sheets to Your Lordship, who lived in
a long Intercourse of Friendship with the Author; and, like him, amidst occupations of a different
nature, made Religion your voluntary Study; and in all your Enquiries and Actions, have shewn
the same inflexible Adherence to Truth and Virtue.

I shall always reckon it one of the Advantages of my Relation to Sir Isaac Newton, that it
affords me an opportunity of making this publick acknowledgment of the unfeigned Respect of,

  My Lord,
      Your Lordship's
          most obedient, and
              most humble Servant,
                  Benj. Smith.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS.

PART I.

Observations upon the Prophecies of Daniel.

CHAP. I. Introduction concerning, the Compilers of the Books of the Old Testament.

CHAP. II. Of the Prophetic Language.

CHAP. III. Of the vision of the Image composed of four Metals.

CHAP. IV. Of the vision of the four Beasts.

CHAP. V. Of the Kingdoms represented by the feet of the Image composed of iron and clay.

CHAP. VI. Of the ten Kingdoms represented by the ten horns of the fourth Beast.

CHAP. VII. Of the eleventh horn of Daniel's fourth Beast.

CHAP. VIII. Of the power of the eleventh horn of Daniel's fourth Beast, to change times and laws.

CHAP. IX. Of the Kingdoms represented in Daniel by the Ram and He-Goat.

CHAP. X. Of the Prophecy of the Seventy Weeks.

CHAP. XI. Of the Times of the Birth and Passion of Christ.

CHAP. XII. Of the Prophecy of the Scripture of Truth.

CHAP. XIII. Of the King who did according to his will, and magnified himself above every God,
and honoured Mahuzzims, and regarded not the desire of women.

CHAP. XIV. Of the Mahuzzims, honoured by the King who doth according to his will.

PART II.

Observations upon the Apocalypse of St. John.

CHAP. I. Introduction, concerning the time when the Apocalypse was written.

CHAP. II. Of the relation which the Apocalypse of John hath to the Book of the Law of Moses,
and to the worship of God in the Temple.

CHAP. III. Of the relation which the Prophecy of John hath to those of Daniel; and of the Subject
of the Prophecy.

       *       *       *       *       *

PART I.

       *       *       *       *       *

OBSERVATIONS UPON THE PROPHECIES OF DANIEL.

When Manasses [1] set up a carved image in the house of the Lord, and built altars in the two
courts of the house, to all the host of Heaven, and us'd inchantments and witchcraft, and familiar
spirits, and for his great wickedness was invaded by the army of Asserhadon King of Assyria,
and carried captive to Babylon; the book of the Law was lost till the eighteenth year of his
grandson Josiah. Then [2] Hilkiah the High Priest, upon repairing the Temple, found it there:
and the King lamented that their fathers had not done after the words of the book, and commanded
that it should be read to the people, and caused the people to renew the holy covenant with
God. This is the book of the Law now extant. But [4] when Shishak was dead, and Egypt fell
into troubles, Judah had quiet ten years; and in that time Asa built fenced cities in Judah,
and got up an army of 580000 men, with which, in the 15th year of his reign, he met and overcame
Zerah the Ethiopian, who had conquered Egypt and Lybia, and Troglodytica, and came out with
an army of 1000000 Lybians and Ethiopians, to recover the countries conquered by Sesac. And
after this victory [5] Asa dethroned his mother for idolatry, and he renewed the Altar, and
brought new vessels of gold and silver into the Temple; and he and the people entered into
a new covenant to seek the Lord God of their fathers, upon pain of death to those who worshiped
other Gods; and his son Jehosaphat took away the high places, and in the third year of his
reign sent some of his Princes, and of the Priests and Levites, to teach in the cities of Judah:
and they had the book of the Law with them, and went about throughout all the cities of Judah,
and taught the people. This is that book of the Law which was afterwards lost in the reign
of Manasses, and found again in the reign of Josiah, and therefore it was written before the
third year of Jehosaphat.

The same book of the Law was preserved and handed down to posterity by the Samaritans, and
therefore was received by the ten Tribes before their captivity. For [6] when the ten Tribes
were captivated, a Priest or the captivity was sent back to Bethel, by order of the King of
Assyria, to instruct the new inhabitants of Samaria, in the manner of the God of the land;
and the Samaritans had the Pentateuch from this Priest, as containing the law or manner of
the God of the land, which he was to teach them. For [7] they persevered in the religion which
he taught them, joining with it the worship of their own Gods; and by persevering in what they
had been taught, they preserved this book of their Law in the original character of the Hebrews,
while the two Tribes, after their return from Babylon, changed the character to that of the
Chaldees, which they had learned at Babylon.

And since the Pentateuch was received as the book of the Law, both by the two Tribes and by
the ten Tribes, it follows that they received it before they became divided into two Kingdoms.
For after the division, they received not laws from one another, but continued at variance.
Judah could not reclaim Israel from the sin of Jeroboam, and Israel could not bring Judah to
it. The Pentateuch therefore was the book of the Law in the days of David and Solomon. The
affairs of the Tabernacle and Temple were ordered by David and Solomon, according to the Law
of this book; and David in the 78th Psalm, admonishing the people to give ear to the Law of
God, means the Law of this book. For in describing how their forefathers kept it not, he quotes
many historical things out of the books of Exodus and Numbers.

The race of the Kings of Edom, before there reigned any King over Israel, is set down in the
book of [8] Genesis; and therefore that book was not written entirely in the form now extant,
before the reign of Saul. The writer set down the race of those Kings till his own time, and
therefore wrote before David conquered Edom. The Pentateuch is composed of the Law and the
history of God's people together; and the history hath been collected from several books, such
as were the history of the Creation composed by Moses, Gen. ii. 4. the book of the generations
of Adam, Gen. v. i. and the book of the wars of the Lord, Num. xxi. 14. This book of wars contained
what was done at the Red-sea, and in the journeying of Israel thro' the Wilderness, and therefore
was begun by Moses. And Joshua might carry it on to the conquest of Canaan. For Joshua wrote
some things in the book of the Law of God, Josh. xxiv. 26 and therefore might write his own
wars in the book of wars, those being the principal wars of God. These were publick books,
and therefore not written without the authority of Moses and Joshua. And Samuel had leisure
in the reign of Saul, to put them into the form of the books of Moses and Joshua now extant,
inserting into the book of Genesis, the race of the Kings of Edom, until there reigned a King
in Israel.

The book of the Judges is a continued history of the Judges down to the death of Sampson, and
therefore was compiled after his death, out of the Acts of the Judges. Several things in this
book are said to be done when there was no King in Israel, Judg. xvii. 6. xviii. 1. xix. 1.
xxi. 25. and therefore this book was written after the beginning of the reign of Saul. When
it was written, the Jebusites dwelt in Jerusalem, Jud. i. 21 and therefore it was written before
the eighth year of David, 2 Sam. v. 8. and 1 Chron. xi. 6. The books of Moses, Joshua, and
Judges, contain one continued history, down from the Creation to the death of Sampson. Where
the Pentateuch ends, the book of Joshua begins; and where the book of Joshua ends, the book
of Judges begins. Therefore all these books have been composed out of the writings of Moses,
Joshua, and other records, by one and the same hand, after the beginning of the reign of Saul,
and before the eighth year of David. And Samuel was a sacred writer, 1 Sam. x. 25. acquainted
with the history of Moses and the Judges, 1 Sam. xii. 8, 9, 10, 11, 12. and had leisure in
the reign of Saul, and sufficient authority to compose these books. He was a Prophet, and judged
Israel all the days of his life, and was in the greatest esteem with the people; and the Law
by which he was to judge the people was not to be published by less authority than his own,
the Law-maker being not inferior to the judge. And the book of Jasher, which is quoted in the
book of Joshua, Josh. x. 13. was in being at the death of Saul, 2 Sam. i. 18.

At the dedication of the Temple of Solomon, when the Ark was brought into the most holy place,
there was nothing in it but the two tables, 1 Kings viii. 9. and therefore when the Philistines
took the Ark, they took out of it the book of the Law, and the golden pot of Manna, and Aaron's
Rod. And this and other losses in the desolation of Israel, by the conquering Philistines,
might give occasion to Samuel, after some respite from those enemies, to recollect the scattered
writings of Moses and Joshua, and the records of the Patriarchs and Judges, and compose them
in the form now extant.

The book of Ruth is a history of things done in the days of the Judges, and may be looked upon
as an addition to the book of the Judges, written by the same author, and at the same time.
For it was written after the birth of David, Ruth iv. 17, 22. and not long after, because the
history of Boaz and Ruth, the great grandfather and great grandmother of David, and that of
their contemporaries, could not well be remembered above two or three generations. And since
this book derives the genealogy of David from Boaz and Ruth, and omits David's elder brothers
and his sons; it was written in honour of David, after he was anointed King by Samuel, and
before he had children in Hebron, and by consequence in the reign of Saul. It proceeds not
to the history of David, and therefore seems to have been written presently after he was anointed.
They judge well therefore who ascribe to Samuel the books of Joshua, Judges, and Ruth.

Samuel is also reputed the author of the first book of Samuel, till the time of his death.
The two books of Samuel cite no authors, and therefore seem to be originals. They begin with
his genealogy, birth and education, and might be written partly in his lifetime by himself
or his disciples the Prophets at Naioth in Ramah, 1 Sam. xix. 18, 19, 20. and partly after
his death by the same disciples.

The books of the Kings cite other authors, as the book of the Acts of Solomon, the book of
the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel, and the book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah.
These books were therefore collected out of the historical writings of the antient Seers and
Prophets. And because the books of the Kings and Chronicles quote one another, they were written
at one and the same time. And this time was after the return from the Babylonian captivity,
because they bring down the history of Judah, and the genealogies of the Kings of Judah, and
of the High Priests, to that captivity. The book of Ezra was originally a part of the book
of the Chronicles, and has been divided from it. For it begins with the two last verses of
the books of Chronicles, and the first book of Esdras begins with the two last chapters thereof.
Ezra was therefore the compiler of the books of Kings and Chronicles, and brought down the
history to his own time. 13. By the Acts of David I understand here the two books of Samuel,
or at least the second book. Out of the Acts of the Kings, written from time to time by the
Prophets, he compos'd the books of the Kings of Judah and Israel, the Chronicles of the Kings
of Judah, and the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel. And in doing this he joined those Acts
together, in due order of time, copying the very words of the authors, as is manifest from
hence, that the books of the Kings and Chronicles frequently agree with one another in words
for many sentences together. Where they agree in sense, there they agree in words also.

So the Prophecies of Isaiah, written at several times, he has collected into one body. And
the like he did for those of Jeremiah, and the rest of the Prophets, down to the days of the
second Temple. The book of Jonah is the history of Jonah written by another hand. The book
of Daniel is a collection of papers written at several times. The six last chapters contain
Prophecies written at several times by Daniel himself: the six first are a collection of historical
papers written by others. The fourth chapter is a decree of Nebuchadnezzar. The first chapter
was written after Daniel's death: for the author saith, that Daniel continued to the first
year of Cyrus; that is, to his first year over the Persians and Medes, and third year over
Babylon. And, for the same reason, the fifth and sixth chapters were also written after his
death. Yet these words might be added by the collector of the papers, whom I take to be Ezra.

The Psalms composed by Moses, David, and others, seem to have been also collected by Ezra into
one volume. I reckon him the collector, because in this collection I meet with Psalms as late
as the Babylonian captivity, but with none later.

After these things Antiochus Epiphanes spoiled the Temple, commanded the Jews to forsake the
Law upon pain of death, and caused the sacred books to be burnt wherever they could be found:
and in these troubles the book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel was entirely lost.
But upon recovering from this oppression, Judas Maccabæus gathered together all those writings
that were to be met with, 2 Maccab. ii. 14. and in reducing them into order, part of the Prophecies
of Isaiah, or some other Prophet, have been added to the end of the Prophecies of Zechariah;
and the book of Ezra has been separated from the book of Chronicles, and set together in two
different orders; in one order in the book of Ezra, received into the Canon, and in another
order in the first book of Esdras.

After the Roman captivity, the Jews for preserving their traditions, put them in writing in
their Talmud, and for preserving their scriptures, agreed upon an Edition, and pointed it,
and counted the letters of every sort in every book: and by preserving only this Edition, the
antienter various lections, except what can be discovered by means of the Septuagint Version,
are now lost; and such marginal notes, or other corruptions, as by the errors of the transcribers,
before this Edition was made, had crept into the text, are now scarce to be corrected.

The Jews before the Roman captivity, distinguished the sacred books into the Law, the Prophets,
and the Hagiographa, or holy writings; and read only the Law and the Prophets in their Synagogues.
And Christ and his Apostles laid the stress of religion upon the Law and the Prophets, Matt.
vii. 12. xxii. 4. Luke xvi. 16, 29, 31. xxiv. 44. Acts xxiv. 14. xxvi. 22. Rom. iii. 21. By
the Hagiographa they meant the historical books called Joshua, Judges, Ruth, Samuel, Kings,
Chronicles, Ezra, Nehemiah, and Esther, the book of Job, the Psalms, the books of Solomon,
and the Lamentations. The Samaritans read only the Pentateuch: and when Jehosaphat sent men
to teach in the cities, they had with them only the book of the Law; for the Prophecies now
extant were not then written. And upon the return from the Babylonian captivity, Ezra read
only the book of the Law to the people, from morning to noon on the first day of the seventh
month; and from day to day in the feast of Tabernacles: for he had not yet collected the writings
of the Prophets into the volume now extant; but instituted the reading of them after the collection
was made. By reading the Law and the Prophets in the Synagogues, those books have been kept
freer from corruption than the Hagiographa.

In the infancy of the nation of Israel, when God had given them a Law, and made a covenant
with them to be their God if they would keep his commandments, he sent Prophets to reclaim
them, as often as they revolted to the worship of other Gods: and upon their returning to him,
they sometimes renewed the covenant which they had broken. These Prophets he continued to send,
till the days of Ezra: but after their Prophecies were read in the Synagogues, those Prophecies
were thought sufficient. For if the people would not hear Moses and the old Prophets, they
would hear no new ones, no not tho they should rise from the dead. At length when a new truth
was to be preached to the Gentiles, namely, that Jesus was the Christ, God sent new Prophets
and Teachers: but after their writings were also received and read in the Synagogues of the
Christians, Prophecy ceased a second time. We have Moses, the Prophets, and Apostles, and the
words of Christ himself; and if we will not hear them, we shall be more inexcusable than the
Jews. For the Prophets and Apostles have foretold, that as Israel often revolted and brake
the covenant, and upon repentance renewed it; so there should be a falling away among the Christians,
soon after the days of the Apostles; and that in the latter days God would destroy the impenitent
revolters, and make a new covenant with his people. 9, 10. The authority of Emperors, Kings,
and Princes, is human. The authority of Councils, Synods, Bishops, and Presbyters, is human.
The authority of the Prophets is divine, and comprehends the sum of religion, reckoning Moses
and the Apostles among the Prophets; and if an Angel from Heaven preach any other gospel, than
what they have delivered, let him be accursed. Their writings contain the covenant between
God and his people, with instructions for keeping this covenant; instances of God's judgments
upon them that break it: and predictions of things to come. While the people of God keep the
covenant, they continue to be his people: when they break it they cease to be his people or
church, and become the Synagogue of Satan, who say they are Jews and are not. And no power
on earth is authorized to alter this covenant.

The predictions of things to come relate to the state of the Church in all ages: and amongst
the old Prophets, Daniel is most distinct in order of time, and easiest to be understood: and
therefore in those things which relate to the last times, he must be made the key to the rest.

Notes to Chap. I.

[1] 2 Chron. xxxiii. 5, 6, 7.

[2] 2 Chron. xxxiv.

[3] 2 Chron. xii. 2, 3, 4, 8, 9. & xv. 3, 5, 6.

[4] 2 Chron. xiv. 1, 6, 7, 8, 9, 12.

[5] 2 Chron. xv. 3, 12, 13, 16, 18.

[6] 2 Kings xvii. 27, 28, 32, 33.

[7] 2 Kings xvii. 34, 41.

[8] Gen. xxxvi. 31.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAP. II.

Of the Prophetic Language.

For understanding the Prophecies, we are, in the first place, to acquaint our-selves with the
figurative language of the Prophets. This language is taken from the analogy between the world
natural, and an empire or kingdom considered as a world politic.

Accordingly, the whole world natural consisting of heaven and earth, signifies the whole world
politic, consisting of thrones and people, or so much of it as is considered in the Prophecy:
and the things in that world signify the analogous things in this. For the heavens, and the
things therein, signify thrones and dignities, and those who enjoy them; and the earth, with
the things thereon, the inferior people; and the lowest parts of the earth, called Hades or
Hell, the lowest or most miserable part of them. Whence ascending towards heaven, and descending
to the earth, are put for rising and falling in power and honour: rising out of the earth,
or waters, and falling into them, for the rising up to any dignity or dominion, out of the
inferior state of the people, or falling down from the same into that inferior state; descending
into the lower parts of the earth, for descending to a very low and unhappy estate; speaking
with a faint voice out of the dust, for being in a weak and low condition; moving from one
place to another, for translation from one office, dignity, or dominion, to another; great
earthquakes, and the shaking of heaven and earth, for the shaking of kingdoms, so as to distract
or overthrow them; the creating a new heaven and earth, and the passing away of an old one,
or the beginning and end of the world, for the rise and ruin of the body politic signified thereby.

In the heavens, the Sun and Moon are, by interpreters of dreams, put for the persons of Kings
and Queens; but in sacred Prophecy, which regards not single persons, the Sun is put for the
whole species and race of Kings, in the kingdom or kingdoms of the world politic, shining with
regal power and glory; the Moon for the body of the common people, considered as the King's
wife; the Stars for subordinate Princes and great men, or for Bishops and Rulers of the people
of God, when the Sun is Christ; light for the glory, truth, and knowledge, wherewith great
and good men shine and illuminate others; darkness for obscurity of condition, and for error,
blindness and ignorance; darkning, smiting, or setting of the Sun, Moon, and Stars, for the
ceasing of a kingdom, or for the desolation thereof, proportional to the darkness; darkning
the Sun, turning the Moon into blood, and falling of the Stars, for the same; new Moons, for
the return of a dispersed people into a body politic or ecclesiastic.

Fire and meteors refer to both heaven and earth, and signify as follows; burning any thing
with fire, is put for the consuming thereof by war; a conflagration of the earth, or turning
a country into a lake of fire, for the consumption of a kingdom by war; the being in a furnace,
for the being in slavery under another nation; the ascending up of the smoke of any burning
thing for ever and ever, for the continuation of a conquered people under the misery of perpetual
subjection and slavery; the scorching heat of the sun, for vexatious wars, persecutions and
troubles inflicted by the King; riding on the clouds, for reigning over much people; covering
the sun with a cloud, or with smoke, for oppression of the King by the armies of an enemy;
tempestuous winds, or the motion of clouds, for wars; thunder, or the voice of a cloud, for
the voice of a multitude; a storm of thunder, lightning, hail, and overflowing rain, for a
tempest of war descending from the heavens and clouds politic, on the heads of their enemies;
rain, if not immoderate, and dew, and living water, for the graces and doctrines of the Spirit;
and the defect of rain, for spiritual barrenness.

In the earth, the dry land and congregated waters, as a sea, a river, a flood, are put for
the people of several regions, nations, and dominions; embittering of waters, for great affliction
of the people by war and persecution; turning things into blood, for the mystical death of
bodies politic, that is, for their dissolution; the overflowing of a sea or river, for the
invasion of the earth politic, by the people of the waters; drying up of waters, for the conquest
of their regions by the earth; fountains of waters for cities, the permanent heads of rivers
politic; mountains and islands, for the cities of the earth and sea politic, with the territories
and dominions belonging to those cities; dens and rocks of mountains, for the temples of cities;
the hiding of men in those dens and rocks, for the shutting up of Idols in their temples; houses
and ships, for families, assemblies, and towns, in the earth and sea politic; and a navy of
ships of war, for an army of that kingdom that is signified by the sea.

Animals also and vegetables are put for the people of several regions and conditions; and particularly,
trees, herbs, and land animals, for the people of the earth politic: flags, reeds, and fishes,
for those of the waters politic; birds and insects, for those of the politic heaven and earth;
a forest for a kingdom; and a wilderness for a desolate and thin people.

If the world politic, considered in prophecy, consists of many kingdoms, they are represented
by as many parts of the world natural; as the noblest by the celestial frame, and then the
Moon and Clouds are put for the common people; the less noble, by the earth, sea, and rivers,
and by the animals or vegetables, or buildings therein; and then the greater and more powerful
animals and taller trees, are put for Kings, Princes, and Nobles. And because the whole kingdom
is the body politic of the King, therefore the Sun, or a Tree, or a Beast, or Bird, or a Man,
whereby the King is represented, is put in a large signification for the whole kingdom; and
several animals, as a Lion, a Bear, a Leopard, a Goat, according to their qualities, are put
for several kingdoms and bodies politic; and sacrificing of beasts, for slaughtering and conquering
of kingdoms; and friendship between beasts, for peace between kingdoms. Yet sometimes vegetables
and animals are, by certain epithets or circumstances, extended to other significations; as
a Tree, when called the tree of life or of knowledge; and a Beast, when called the old serpent,
or worshipped.

When a Beast or Man is put for a kingdom, his parts and qualities are put for the analogous
parts and qualities of the kingdom; as the head of a Beast, for the great men who precede and
govern; the tail for the inferior people, who follow and are governed; the heads, if more than
one, for the number of capital parts, or dynasties, or dominions in the kingdom, whether collateral
or successive, with respect to the civil government; the horns on any head, for the number
of kingdoms in that head, with respect to military power; seeing for understanding, and the
eyes for men of understanding and policy, and in matters of religion for [Greek: Episkopoi],
Bishops; speaking, for making laws; the mouth, for a law-giver, whether civil or sacred; the
loudness of the voice, for might and power; the faintness thereof, for weakness; eating and
drinking, for acquiring what is signified by the things eaten and drank; the hairs of a beast,
or man, and the feathers of a bird, for people; the wings, for the number of kingdoms represented
by the beast; the arm of a man, for his power, or for any people wherein his strength and power
consists; his feet, for the lowest of the people, or for the latter end of the kingdom; the
feet, nails, and teeth of beasts of prey, for armies and squadrons of armies; the bones, for
strength, and for fortified places; the flesh, for riches and possessions; and the days of
their acting, for years; and when a tree is put for a kingdom, its branches, leaves and fruit,
signify as do the wings, feathers, and food of a bird or beast.

When a man is taken in a mystical sense, his qualities are often signified by his actions,
and by the circumstances of things about him. So a Ruler is signified by his riding on a beast;
a Warrior and Conqueror, by his having a sword and bow; a potent man, by his gigantic stature;
a Judge, by weights and measures; a sentence of absolution, or condemnation, by a white or
a black stone; a new dignity, by a new name; moral or civil qualifications, by garments; honour
and glory, by splendid apparel; royal dignity, by purple or scarlet, or by a crown; righteousness,
by white and clean robes; wickedness, by spotted and filthy garments; affliction, mourning,
and humiliation, by clothing in sackcloth; dishonour, shame, and want of good works, by nakedness;
error and misery, by drinking a cup of his or her wine that causeth it; propagating any religion
for gain, by exercising traffick and merchandize with that people whose religion it is; worshipping
or serving the false Gods of any nation, by committing adultery with their princes, or by worshipping
them; a Council of a kingdom, by its image; idolatry, by blasphemy; overthrow in war, by a
wound of man or beast; a durable plague of war, by a sore and pain; the affliction or persecution
which a people suffers in labouring to bring forth a new kingdom, by the pain of a woman in
labour to bring forth a man-child; the dissolution of a body politic or ecclesiastic, by the
death of a man or beast; and the revival of a dissolved dominion, by the resurrection of the dead.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAP. III.

Of the vision of the Image composed of four Metals.

The Prophecies of Daniel are all of them related to one another, as if they were but several
parts of one general Prophecy, given at several times. The first is the easiest to be understood,
and every following Prophecy adds something new to the former. The first was given in a dream
to Nebuchadnezzar, King of Babylon, in the second year of his reign; but the King forgetting
his dream, it was given again to Daniel in a dream, and by him revealed to the King. And thereby,
Daniel presently became famous for wisdom, and revealing of secrets: insomuch that Ezekiel
his contemporary, in the nineteenth year of Nebuchadnezzar, spake thus of him to the King of
Tyre: Behold, saith he, thou art wiser than Daniel, there is no secret that they can hide from
thee, Ezek. xxviii. 3. And the same Ezekiel, in another place, joins Daniel with Noah and Job,
as most high in the favour of God, Ezek. xiv. 14, 16, 18, 20. Daniel was in the greatest credit
amongst the Jews, till the reign of the Roman Emperor Hadrian: and to reject his Prophecies,
is to reject the Christian religion. For this religion is founded upon his Prophecy concerning
the Messiah.

Now in this vision of the Image composed of four Metals, the foundation of all Daniel's Prophecies
is laid. It represents a body of four great nations, which should reign over the earth successively,
viz. the people of Babylonia, the Persians, the Greeks, and the Romans. And by a stone cut
out without hands, which fell upon the feet of the Image, and brake all the four Metals to
pieces, and became a great mountain, and filled the whole earth; it further represents that
a new kingdom should arise, after the four, and conquer all those nations, and grow very great,
and last to the end of all ages.

The head of the Image was of gold, and signifies the nations of Babylonia, who reigned first,
as Daniel himself interprets. Thou art this head of gold, saith he to Nebuchadnezzar. These
nations reigned till Cyrus conquered Babylon, and within a few months after that conquest revolted
to the Persians, and set them up above the Medes. The breast and arms of the Image were of
silver, and represent the Persians who reigned next. The belly and thighs of the Image were
of brass, and represent the Greeks, who, under the dominion of Alexander the great, conquered
the Persians, and reigned next after them. The legs were of iron, and represent the Romans
who reigned next after the Greeks, and began to conquer them in the eighth year of Antiochus
Epiphanes. For in that year they conquered Perseus King of Macedon, the fundamental kingdom
of the Greeks; and from thence forward grew into a mighty empire, and reigned with great power
till the days of Theodosius the great. Then by the incursion of many northern nations, they
brake into many smaller kingdoms, which are represented by the feet and toes of the Image,
composed part of iron, and part of clay. For then, saith Daniel, [1] the kingdom shall be divided,
and there shall be in it of the strength of iron, but they shall not cleave one to another.

Notes to Chap. III.

[1] Chap. ii. 41, &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAP. IV.

Of the vision of the four Beasts.

In the next vision, which is of the four Beasts, the Prophecy of the four Empires is repeated,
with several new additions; such as are the two wings of the Lion, the three ribs in the mouth
of the Bear, the four wings and four heads of the Leopard, the eleven horns of the fourth Beast,
and the son of man coming in the clouds of Heaven, to the Antient of Days sitting in judgment.

The first Beast was like a lion, and had eagle's wings, to denote the kingdoms of Babylonia
and Media, which overthrew the Assyrian Empire, and divided it between them, and thereby became
considerable, and grew into great Empires. In the former Prophecy, the Empire of Babylonia
was represented by the head of gold; in this both Empires are represented together by the two
wings of the lion.

The second Beast was like a bear, and represents the Empire which reigned next after the Babylonians,
that is, the Empire of the Persians. Thy kingdom is divided, or broken, saith Daniel to the
last King of Babylon, and given to the Medes and Persians, Dan. v. 28. This Beast raised itself
up on one side; the Persians being under the Medes at the fall of Babylon, but presently rising
up above them. [2] And it had three ribs in the mouth of it, between the teeth of it, to signify
the kingdoms of Sardes, Babylon, and Egypt, which were conquered by it, but did not belong
to its proper body. And it devoured much flesh, the riches of those three kingdoms.

The third Beast was the kingdom which succeeded the Persian; and this was the empire of the
Greeks, Dan. viii. 6, 7, 20, 21. It was like a Leopard, to signify its fierceness; and had
four heads and four wings, to signify that it should become divided into four kingdoms, Dan.
viii 22. for it continued in a monarchical form during the reign of Alexander the great, and
his brother Aridæus, and young sons Alexander and Hercules; and then brake into four kingdoms,
by the governors of provinces putting crowns on their own heads, and by mutual consent reigning
over their provinces. Cassander reigned over Macedon, Greece, and Epirus; Lysimachus over Thrace
and Bithynia; Ptolemy over Egypt, Lybia, Arabia, Coelosyria, and Palestine; and Seleucus over
Syria.

The fourth Beast was the empire which succeeded that of the Greeks, and this was the Roman.
This beast was exceeding dreadful and terrible, and had great iron teeth, and devoured and
brake in pieces, and stamped the residue with its feet; and such was the Roman empire. It was
larger, stronger, and more formidable and lasting than any of the former. It conquered the
kingdom of Macedon, with Illyricum and Epirus, in the eighth year of Antiochus Epiphanes, Anno
Nabonass.. 580; and inherited that of Pergamus, Anno Nabonass. 615; and conquered that of Syria,
Anno Nabonass. 679, and that of Egypt, Anno Nabonass. 718. And by these and other conquests
it became greater and more terrible than any of the three former Beasts. This Empire continued
in its greatness till the reign of Theodosius the great; and then brake into ten kingdoms,
represented by the ten horns of this Beast; and continued in a broken form, till the Antient
of days sat in a throne like fiery flame, and the judgment was set, and the books were opened,
and the Beast was slain and his body destroyed, and given to the burning flames; and one like
the son of man came with the clouds of heaven, and came to the Antient of days [3], and received
dominion over all nations, and judgment was given to the saints of the most high, and the time
came that they possessed the kingdom.

I beheld, saith [4] Daniel, till the Beast was slain, and his body destroyed, and given to
the burning flames. As concerning the rest of the Beasts, they had their dominion taken away:
yet their lives were prolonged for a season and a time. And therefore all the four Beasts are
still alive, tho the dominion of the three first be taken away. The nations of Chaldea and
Assyria are still the first Beast. Those of Media and Persia are still the second Beast. Those
of Macedon, Greece and Thrace, Asia minor, Syria and Egypt, are still the third. And those
of Europe, on this side Greece, are still the fourth. Seeing therefore the body of the third
Beast is confined to the nations on this side the river Euphrates, and the body of the fourth
Beast is confined to the nations on this side Greece; we are to look for all the four heads
of the third Beast, among the nations on this side of the river Euphrates; and for all the
eleven horns of the fourth Beast, among the nations on this side of Greece. And therefore,
at the breaking of the Greek empire into four kingdoms of the Greeks, we include no part of
the Chaldeans, Medes and Persians in those kingdoms, because they belonged to the bodies of
the two first Beasts. Nor do we reckon the Greek empire seated at Constantinople, among the
horns of the fourth Beast, because it belonged to the body of the third.

Notes to Chap. IV.

[1] Chap. vii. 4.

[2] Chap. vii. 5.

[3] Chap. vii. 13.

[4] Chap. vii. 11, 12.

Dacia was a large country bounded on the south by the Danube, on the east by the Euxine sea,
on the north by the river Neister and the mountain Crapac, and on the west by the river Tibesis,
or Teys, which runs southward into the Danube a little above Belgrade. It comprehended the
countries now called Transylvania, Moldavia, and Wallachia, and the eastern part of the upper
Hungary. Its antient inhabitants were called Getæ by the Greeks, Daci by the Latins, and Goths
by themselves. Alexander the great attacked them, and Trajan conquered them, and reduced their
country into a Province of the Roman Empire: and thereby the propagation of the Gospel among
them was much promoted. They were composed of several Gothic nations, called Ostrogoths, Visigoths,
Vandals, Gepides, Lombards, Burgundians, Alans, &c. who all agreed in their manners, and spake
the same language, as Procopius represents. While they lived under the Romans, the Goths or
Ostrogoths were seated in the eastern parts of Dacia, the Vandals in the western part upon
the river Teys, where the rivers Maresh and Keresh run into it. The Visigoths were between
them. The Gepides, according to Jornandes, were upon the Vistula. The Burgundians, a Vandalic
nation, were between the Vistula and the southern fountain of the Boristhenes, at some distance
from the mountain Crapac northwards, where Ptolemy places them, by the names of Phrugundiones
and Burgiones.[1] The Alans, another Gothic nation, were between the northern fountain of the
Boristhenes and the mouth of the river Tanais, where Ptolemy placeth the mountain Alanus, and
western side of the Palus Mæotis.

These nations continued under the dominion of the Romans till the second year of the Emperor
Philip, and then for want of their military pay began to revolt; the Ostrogoths setting up
a kingdom, which, under their Kings Ostrogotha, Cniva, Araric, Geperic, and Hermanaric, increased
till the year of Christ 376; and then by an incursion of the Huns from beyond the Tanais, and
the death of Hermanaric, brake into several smaller kingdoms. Hunnimund, the son of Hermanaric,
became King over the Ostrogoths; Fridigern over the Visigoths; Winithar, or Vinithar, over
a part of the Goths called Gruthungi by Ammian, Gothunni by Claudian, and Sarmatæ and Scythians
by others: Athanaric reign'd over another part of the Goths in Dacia, called Thervingi; Box
over the Antes in Sarmatia; and the Gepides had also their King. The Vandals fled over the
Danube from Geberic in the latter end of the reign of Constantine the great, and had seats
granted them in Pannonia by that Emperor, where they lived quietly forty years, viz. till the
year 377, when several Gothic nations flying from the Hunns came over the Danube, and had seats
granted them in Mæsia and Thrace by the Greek Emperor Valens. But the next year they revolted,
called in some Goths, Alans and Hunns, from beyond the Danube, and routed the Roman army, slew
the Emperor Valens, and spread themselves into Greece and Pannonia as far as the Alps. In the
years 379 and 380 they were checkt by the arms of the Emperors Gratian and Theodosius, and
made a submissive peace; the Visigoths and Thervingi returned to their seats in Mæsia and Thrace,
the Hunns retired over the Danube, and the Alans and Gruthingi obtained seats in Pannonia.

About the year 373, or 374, the Burgundians rose from their seats upon the Vistula, with an
army of eighty thousand men to invade Gallia; and being opposed, seated themselves upon the
northern side of the Rhine over against Mentz. In the year 358, a body of the Salian Franks,
with their King, coming from the river Sala, were received into the Empire by the Emperor Julian,
and seated in Gallia between Brabant and the Rhine: and their King Mellobaudes was made Comes
domesticorum, by the Emperor Gratian. Richomer, another noble Salian Frank, was made Comes
domesticorum, and Magister utriusque Militiæ, by Theodosius; and A.C. 384, was Consul with
Clearchus. He was a great favourite of Theodosius, and accompanied him in his wars against
Eugenius, but died in the expedition, and left a son called Theudomir, who afterwards became
King of the Salian Franks in Brabant. In the time of this war some Franks from beyond the Rhine
invaded Gallia under the conduct of Genobald, Marcomir and Suno, but were repulsed by Stilico;
and Marcomir being slain, was succeeded in Germany by his son Pharamond.

While these nations remained quiet within the Empire, subject to the Romans, many others continued
so beyond the Danube till the death of the Emperor Theodosius, and then rose up in arms. For
Paulus Diaconus in his Historia Miscell. lib. xiv. speaking of the times next after the death
of this Emperor, tells us: Eodem tempore erant Gothi & aliæ gentes maximæ trans Danubium habitantes:
ex quibus rationabiliores quatuor sunt, Gothi scilicet, Huisogothi, Gepides & Vandali; & nomen
tantum & nihil aliud mutantes. Isti sub Arcadia & Honorio Danubium transeuntes, locati sunt
in terra Romanorum: & Gepides quidem, ex quibus postea divisi sunt Longobardi & Avares, villas,
quæ sunt circa Singidonum & Sirmium, habitavere: and Procopius in the beginning of his Historia
Vandalica writes to the same purpose. Hitherto the Western Empire continued entire, but now
brake into many kingdoms.

Theodosius died A.C. 395; and then the Visigoths, under the conduct of Alaric the successor
of Fridigern, rose from their seats in Thrace and wasted Macedon, Thessaly, Achaia, Peloponnesus,
and Epirus, with fire and sword for five years together; when turning westward, they invaded
Dalmatia, Illyricum and Pannonia; and from thence went into Italy A.C. 402; and the next year
were so beaten at Pollentia and Verona, by Stilico the commander of the forces of the Western
Empire, that Claudian calls the remainder of the forces of Alaric, tanta ex gente reliquias
breves, and Prudentius, Gentem deletam. Thereupon Alaric made peace with the Emperor, being
so far humbled, that Orosius saith, he did, pro pace optima & quibuscunque sedibus suppliciter
& simpliciter orare. This peace was ratified by mutual hostages; Ætius was sent hostage to
Alaric; and Alaric continued a free Prince in the seats now granted to him.

When Alaric took up arms, the nations beyond the Danube began to be in motion; and the next
winter, between A.C. 395 and 396, a great body of Hunns, Alans, Ostrogoths, Gepides, and other
northern nations, came over the frozen Danube, being invited by Rufinus: when their brethren,
who had obtained seats within the Empire, took up arms also. Jerome calls this great multitude,
Hunns, Alans, Vandals, Goths, Sarmatians, Quades, and Marcomans; and saith, that they invaded
all places between Constantinople and the Julian Alps, wasting Scythia, Thrace, Macedon, Dardania,
Dacia, Thessaly, Achaia, Epirus, Dalmatia, and all Pannonia. The Suevians also invaded Rhætia:
for when Alaric ravaged Pannonia, the Romans were defending Rhætia; which gave Alaric an opportunity
of invading Italy, as Claudian thus mentions.

  Non nisi perfidiâ nacti penetrabile tempus,
  Irrupere Getæ, nostras dum Rhætia vires
  Occupat, atque alio desudant Marte cohortes.

And when Alaric went from those parts into Italy, some other barbarous nations invaded Noricum
and Vindelicia, as the same Poet Claudian thus writes:

      ----Jam foedera gentes
  Exuerant, Latiique auditâ clade feroces
  Vendelicos saltus & Norica rura tenebant.

This was in the years 402 and 403. And among these nations I reckon the Suevians, Quades, and
Marcomans; for they were all in arms at this time. The Quades and Marcomans were Suevian nations;
and they and the Suevians came originally from Bohemia, and the river Suevus or Sprake in Lusatia;
and were now united under one common King called Ermeric, who soon after led them into Gallia.
The Vandals and Alans might also about this time extend themselves into Noricum. Uldin also
with a great body of Hunns passed the Danube about the time of Chrysostom's banishment, that
is, A.C. 404, and wasted Thrace and Mæsia. Radagaisus, King of the Gruthunni and succesor of
Winithar, inviting over more barbarians from beyond the Danube, invaded Italy with an army
of above two hundred thousand Goths; and within a year or two, A.C. 405 or 406., was overcome
by Stilico, and perished with his army. In this war Stilico was assisted with a great body
of Hunns and Ostrogoths, under the conduct of Uldin and Sarus, who were hired by the Emperor
Honorius. In all this confusion it was necessary for the Lombards in Pannonia to arm themselves
in their own defence, and assert their liberty, the Romans being no longer able to protect them.

And now Stilico purposing to make himself Emperor, procured a military prefecture for Alaric,
and sent him into the East in the service of Honorius the Western Emperor, committing some
Roman troops to his conduct to strengthen his army of Goths, and promising to follow soon after
with his own army. His pretence was to recover some regions of Illyricum, which the Eastern
Emperor was accused to detain injuriously from the Western; but his secret design was to make
himself Emperor, by the assistance of the Vandals and their allies: for he himself was a Vandal.
For facilitating this design, he invited a great body of the barbarous nations to invade the
Western Empire, while he and Alaric invaded the Eastern. And these nations under their several
Kings, the Vandals under Godegisilus, the Alans in two bodies, the one under Goar, the other
under Resplendial, and the Suevians, Quades, and Marcomans, under Ermeric, marched thro' Rhætia
to the side of the Rhine, leaving their seats in Pannonia to the Hunns and Ostrogoths, and
joined the Burgundians under Gundicar, and ruffled the Franks in their further march. On the
last of December A.C. 406, they passed the Rhine at Ments, and spread themselves into Germania
prima and the adjacent regions; and amongst other actions the Vandals took Triers. Then they
advanced into Belgium, and began to waste that country. Whereupon the Salian Franks in Brabant
took up arms, and under the conduct of Theudomir, the son of Ricimer, or Richomer, abovementioned,
made so stout a resistance, that they slew almost twenty thousand of the Vandals, with their
King Godegesilus, in battel; the rest escaping only by a party of Resplendial's Alans which
came timely to their assistance.

Then the British soldiers, alarm'd by the rumour of these things, revolted, and set up Tyrants
there; first Marcus, whom they slew presently; then Gratian, whom they slew within four months;
and lastly Constantine, under whom they invaded Gallia A.C. 408, being favoured by Goar and
Gundicar. And Constantine having possessed a good part of Gallia, created his son Constans
Cæsar, and sent him into Spain to order his affairs there, A.C. 409.

In the mean time Resplendial, seeing the aforesaid disaster of the Vandals, and that Goar was
gone over to the Romans, led his army from the Rhine; and, together with the Suevians and residue
of the Vandals, went towards Spain; the Franks in the mean time prosecuting their victory so
far as to retake Triers, which after they had plundered they left to the Romans. The Barbarians
were at first stopt by the Pyrenean mountains, which made them spread themselves into Aquitain:
but the next year they had the passage betrayed by some soldiers of Constans; and entring Spain
4 Kal. Octob. A.C. 409, they conquered every one what he could; and at length, A.C. 411, divided
their conquests by lot; the Vandals obtained Boetica, and part of Gallæcia; the Suevians the
rest of Gallæcia; and the Alans Lusitania and the Carthaginian Province: the Emperor for the
sake of peace confirming them in those seats by grant A.C. 413.

The Roman Franks abovementioned, having made Theudomir their King, began strait after their
conquest of the Vandals to invade their neighbours also. The first they set upon were the Gauls
of Brabant[2]: but meeting with notable resistance, they desired their alliance: and so those
Gauls fell off from the Romans, and made an intimate league with the Franks to be as one people,
marrying with one another, and conforming to one another's manners, till they became one without
distinction. Thus by the access of these Gauls, and of the foreign Franks also, who afterwards
came over the Rhine, the Salian kingdom soon grew very great and powerful.

Stilico's expedition against the Greek Emperor was stopt by the order of Honorius; and then
Alaric came out of Epirus into Noricum, and requested a sum of money for his service. The Senate
were inclined to deny him, but by Stilico's mediation granted it. But after some time Stilico
being accused of a traiterous conspiracy with Alaric, and slain 10 Kal. Sept. A.C. 408; Alaric
was thereby disappointed of his money, and reputed an enemy to the Empire; he then broke strait
into Italy with the army he brought out of Epirus, and sent to his brother Adolphus to follow
him with what forces he had in Pannonia, which were not great, but yet not to be despised.
Thereupon Honorius fearing to be shut up in Rome, retired to Ravenna in October A.C. 408. And
from that time Ravenna continued to be the seat of the Western Emperors. In those days the
Hunns also invaded Pannonia; and seizing the deserted seats of the Vandals, Alans, and Goths,
founded a new kingdom there. Alaric advancing to Rome besieged it, and 9 Kal. Sept. A.C. 410
took it: and afterwards attempting to pass into Africa, was shipwrackt. After which Honorius
made peace with him, and got up an army to send against the Tyrant Constantine.

At the same time Gerontius, one of Constantine's captains, revolted from him, and set up Maximus
Emperor in Spain. Whereupon Constantine sent Edobec, another of his captains, to draw to his
assistance, the Barbarians under Goar and Gundicar in Gallia, and supplies of Franks and Alemans
from beyond the Rhine; and committed the custody of Vienne in Gallia Narbonensis to his son
Constans. Gerontius advancing, first slew Constans at Vienne, and then began to besiege Constantine
at Arles. But Honorius at the same time sending Constantius with an army on the same errand,
Gerontius fled, and Constantius continued the siege, strengthned by the access of the greatest
part of the soldiers of Gerontius. After four months siege, Edobec having procured succours,
the Barbarian Kings at Ments, Goar and Gundicar, constitute Jovinus Emperor, and together with
him set forward to relieve Arles. At their approach Constantius retired. They pursued, and
he beat them by surprize; but not prosecuting his victory, the Barbarians soon recovered themselves;
yet not so as to hinder the fall of the tyrants Constantine, Jovinus and Maximus. Britain could
not be recovered to the Empire, but remained ever after a distinct kingdom.

The next year, A.C. 412, the Visigoths being beaten in Italy, had Aquitain granted them to
retire into: and they invaded it with much violence, causing the Alans and Burgundians to retreat,
who were then depopulating of it. At the same time the Burgundians were brought to peace; and
the Emperor granted them for inheritance a region upon the Rhine which they had invaded: and
the same, I presume, he did with the Alans. But the Franks not long after retaking and burning
Triers, Castinus, A.C. 415, was sent against them with an army, who routed them and slew Theudomir
their King This was the second taking of Triers by the Franks. It was therefore taken four
times, once by the Vandals and thrice by the Franks. Theudomir was succeeded by Pharamond,
the Prince or King of the Salian Franks in Germany. From thence he brought new forces, reigned
over the whole, and had seats granted to his people within the Empire near the Rhine.

And now the Barbarians were all quieted, and settled in several kingdoms within the Empire,
not only by conquest, but also by the grants of the Emperor Honorius. For Rutilius in his Itinerary,
written in Autumn, Anno Urbis 1169, that is, according to Varro's computation then in use,
A.C. 416, thus laments the wasted fields:

  Illa quidem longis nimium deformia bellis;

And then adds,

  Jam tempus laceris post longa incendia fundis
    Vel pastorales ædificare casas.

And a little after,

  Æternum tibi Rhenus aret.

And Orosius in the end of his history, which was finished A.C. 417, represents now a general
pacification of the barbarous nations by the words comprimere, coangustare, addicere gentes
immanissimas; terming them imperio addictas, because they had obtained seats in the Empire
by league and compact; and coangustatas, because they did no longer invade all regions at pleasure,
but by the same compact remained quiet in the seats then granted them. And these are the kingdoms,
of which the feet of the Image were henceforward composed, and which are represented by iron
and clay intermixed, which did not stick one to another, and were of different strength.

Notes to Chap. V.

[1] Procop. l. 1. de Bello Vandalico.

[2] Galli Arborici: whence the region was named Arboricbant, and by contraction Brabant.

Now by the wars above described the Western Empire of the Romans, about the time that Rome
was besieged and taken by the Goths, became broken into the following ten kingdoms.

  1. The kingdom of the Vandals and Alans in Spain and Africa.
  2. The kingdom of the Suevians in Spain.
  3. The kingdom of the Visigoths.
  4. The kingdom of the Alans in Gallia.
  5. The kingdom of the Burgundians.
  6. The kingdom of the Franks.
  7. The kingdom of the Britains.
  8. The kingdom of the Hunns.
  9. The kingdom of the Lombards.
  10. The kingdom of Ravenna.

Seven of these kingdoms are thus mentioned by Sigonius. 1Honorio regnante, in Pannoniam 2Hunni,
in Hispaniam 3Vandali, 4Alani, 5Suevi & 6Gothi, in Galliam 4Alani 7Burgundiones & 6Gothi, certis
sedibus permissis, accepti. Add the Franks, Britains, and Lombards, and you have the ten: for
these arose about the same time with the seven. But let us view them severally.

1. The Kings of the Vandals were, A.C. 407 Godegesilus, 407 Gunderic, 426 Geiseric, 477 Hunneric,
484 Gundemund, 496 Thrasamund, 513 Geiseric, 530 Gelimer. Godegesilus led them into Gallia
A.C. 406, Gunderic into Spain A.C. 409, Geiseric into Africa A.C. 427; and Gelimer was conquered
by Belisarius A.C. 533. Their kingdom lasted in Gallia, Spain and Africa together 126 years;
and in Africa they were very potent. The Alans had only two Kings of their own in Spain, Resplendial,
and Ataces, Utacus or Othacar. Under Resplendial they went into France A.C. 407, and into Spain
A.C. 409. Ataces was slain with almost all his army by Vallia King of the Visigoths A.C. 419.
And then the remainder of these Alans subjected themselves to Gunderic King of the Vandals
in Boetica, and went afterwards with them into Africa, as I learn out of Procopius. Whence
the Kings of the Vandals styled themselves Kings of the Vandals and Alans; as may be seen in
the Edict of Hunneric recited by Victor in his Vandalic persecution. In conjunction with the
Chatti, these Alans gave the name of Cathalaunia, or Catth-Alania, to the Province which is
still so called. These Alans had also Gepides among them; and therefore the Gepides came into
Pannonia before the Alans left it. There they became subject to the Hunns till the death of
Attila A.C. 454, and at length were conquered by the Ostrogoths.

2. The Kings of the Suevians were, A.C. 407 Ermeric, 458 Rechila, 448 Rechiarius, 458 Maldra,
460 Frumarius, 463 Regismund. And after some other Kings who are unknown, reigned A.C. 558
Theudomir, 568 Miro, 582 Euboricus, and 583 Andeca. This kingdom, after it had been once seated
in Spain, remained always in Gallæcia and Lusitania. Ermeric after the fall of the Alan kingdom,
enlarged it into all Gallæcia, forcing the Vandals to retire into Boetica and the Carthaginian
Province. This kingdom lasted 177 years according to Isidorus, and then was subdued by Leovigildus
King of the Visigoths, and made a Province of his kingdom A.C. 585.

3. The Kings of the Visigoths were, A.C. 400 Alaric, 410 Athaulphus, 415 Sergeric and Vallia,
419 Theoderic, 451 Thorismund, 452 Theoderic, 465 Euric, 482 Alaric, 505 Gensalaric, 526 Amalaric,
531 Theudius, 548 Theudisclus, &c. I date this kingdom from the time that Alaric left Thrace
and Greece to invade the Western Empire. In the end of the reign of Athaulphus the Goths were
humbled by the Romans, and attempted to pass out of France into Spain. Sergeric reigned but
a few days. In the beginning of Vallia's reign they assaulted the Romans afresh, but were again
repulsed, and then made peace on this condition, that they should on the behalf of the Empire
invade the Barbarian kingdoms in Spain: and this they did, together with the Romans, in the
years 417 and 418, overthrowing the Alans and part of the Vandals. Then they received Aquitain
of the Emperor by a full donation, leaving their conquests in Spain to the Emperor: and thereby
the seats of the conquered Alans came into the hands of the Romans. In the year 455, Theoderic,
assisted by the Burgundians, invaded Spain, which was then almost all subject to the Suevians,
and took a part of it from them. A.C. 506, the Goths were driven out of Gallia by the Franks.
A.C. 585, they conquered the Suevian kingdom, and became Lords of all Spain. A.C. 713, the
Saracens invaded them, but in time they recovered their dominions, and have reigned in Spain
ever since.

4. The Kings of the Alans in Gallia were Goar, Sambida, Eocharic, Sangibanus, Beurgus, &c.
Under Goar they invaded Gallia A.C. 407, and had seats given them near the Rhine, A.C. 412.
Under Sambida, whom Bucher makes the successor, if not the son of Goar, they had the territories
of Valence given them by Ætius the Emperor's General, A.C. 440. Under Eocharic they conquered
a region of the rebelling Galli Arborici, given them also by Ætius. This region was from them
named Alenconium, quasi Alanorum conventus. Under Sangibanus they were invaded, and their regal
city Orleans was besieged by Attila King of the Hunns, with a vast army of 500000 men. Ætius
and the Barbarian Kings of Gallia came to raise the siege, and beat the Hunns in a very memorable
battle, A.C. 451, in campis Catalaunicis, so called from these Alans mixt with the Chatti.
The region is now called Campania or Champagne. In that battle were slain on both sides 162000
men. A year or two after, Attila returned with an immense army to conquer this kingdom, but
was again beaten by them and the Visigoths together in a battle of three days continuance,
with a slaughter almost as great as the former. Under Beurgus, or Biorgor, they infested Gallia
round about, till the reign of Maximus the Emperor; and then they passed the Alps in winter,
and came into Liguria, but were there beaten, and Beurgus slain, by Ricimer commander of the
Emperor's forces, A.C. 464. Afterwards they were again beaten, by the joint force of Odoacer
King of Italy and Childeric King of the Franks, about the year 480, and again by Theudobert
King of the Austrian Franks about the year 511.

5. The Kings of the Burgundians were, A.C. 407 Gundicar, 436 Gundioc, 467 Bilimer, 473 Gundobaldus
with his brothers, 510 Sigismund, 517 Godomarus. Under Gundicar they invaded Gallia A.C. 407,
and had seats given them by the Emperor near the Rhine in Gallia Belgica, A.C. 412. They had
Saxons among them, and were now so potent, that Orosius A.C. 417 wrote of them: 'Burgundionum
esse prævalidam manum, Galliæ hodieque testes sunt, in quibus præsumpta possessione consistunt.
About the year 435 they received great overthrows by Ætius, and soon after by the Hunns: but
five years after had Savoy granted them to be shared with the inhabitants; and from that time
became again a potent kingdom, being bounded by the river Rhodanus, but afterwards extending
much further into the heart of Gallia. Gundobald conquered the regions about the rivers Araris
and Rhodanus, with the territories of Marseilles; and invading Italy in the time of the Emperor
Glycerius, conquered all his brethren. Godomarus made Orleans his royal seat: whence the kingdom
was called Regnum Aurelianorum. He was conquered by Clotharius and Childebert, Kings of the
Franks, A.C. 526. From thenceforward this kingdom was sometimes united to the kingdom of the
Franks, and sometimes divided from it, till the reign of Charles the great, who made his son
Carolottus King of Burgundy. From that time, for about 300 years together, it enjoyed its proper
Kings; and was then broken into the Dukedom of Burgundy, County of Burgundy, and County of
Savoy; and afterwards those were broken into other lesser Counties.

6. The Kings of the Franks were, A.C. 407 Theudomir, 417 Pharamond, 428 Clodio, 448 Merovæus,
456 Childeric, 482 Clodovæus, &c. Windeline and Bucher, two of the most diligent searchers
into the originals of this kingdom, make it begin the same year with the Barbarian invasions
of Gallia, that is, A.C. 407. Of the first Kings there is in Labbe's Bibliotheca M.S. this record.

Historica quædam excerpta ex veteri stemmate genealogico Regum Franciæ.

Genobaldus, Marcomerus, Suno, Theodemeris. Isti duces vel reguli extiterunt à principio gentis
Francorum diversis temporibus. Sed incertum relinquunt historici quali sibi procreations lineâ
successerunt.

Pharamundus: sub hoc rege suo primo Franci legibus se subdunt, quas primores eorum tulerunt
Wisogastus, Atrogastus, Salegastus.

Chlochilo. Iste, transito Rheno, Romanos in Carbonaria sylva devicit, Camaracum cepit & obtinuit,
annis 20 regnavit. Sub hoc rege Franci usque Summam progressi sunt.

Merovechus. Sub hoc rege Franci Trevirim destruunt, Metim succendunt, usque Aurelianum perveniunt.

Now for Genobaldus, Marcomer and Suno, they were captains of the Transrhenane Franks in the
reign of Theodosius, and concern us not. We are to begin with Theudomir the first King of the
rebelling Salii, called Didio by Ivo Carnotensis, and Thiedo and Theudemerus by Rhenanus. His
face is extant in a coin of gold found with this inscription, THEUDEMIR REX, published by Petavius,
and still or lately extant, as Windeline testifies: which shews that he was a King, and that
in Gallia; seeing that rude Germany understood not then the coining of money, nor used either
Latin words or letters. He was the son of Ricimer, or Richomer, the favourite of the Emperor
Theodosius; and so being a Roman Frank, and of the Salian royal blood, they therefore upon
the rebellion made him King. The whole time of his reign you have stated in Excerptis Gregorii
Turonensis è Fredigario, cap. 5, 6, 7, 8. where the making him King, the tyranny of Jovinus,
the slaughter of the associates of Jovinus, the second taking of Triers by the Franks, and
their war with Castinus, in which this King was slain, are as a series of successive things
thus set down in order. Extinctis Ducibus in Francis, denuo Reges creantur ex eadem stirpe
qua prius fuerant. Eodem tempore Jovinus ornatus regios assumpsit. Constantinus fugam versus
Italiam dirigit; missis a Jovino Principe percussoribus super Mentio flumine, capite truncatur.
Multi nobilium jussu Jovini apud Avernis capti, & a ducibus Honorii crudeliter interempti sunt.
Trevirorum civitas, factione unius ex senatoribus nomine Lucii, à Francis captà & incensa est.--Castinus
Domesticorum Comes expeditionem accipit contra Francos, &c. Then returning to speak of Theudomir,
he adds: Franci electum à se regem, sicut prius fuerat, crinitum inquirentes diligenter ex
genere Priami, Frigi & Francionis, super se crearunt nomine Theudemerum filium Richemeris,
qui in hoc prælio quod supra memini, à Romanis interfectus est; that is, in the battle with
Castinus's army. Of his death Gregory Turonensis makes this further mention: In consularibus
legimus Theodemerem regem Francorum filium Ricimeris quondam, & Ascilam matrem ejus, gladio
interfectos.

Upon this victory of the Romans, the Franks and rebelling Gauls, who in the time of Theudomir
were at war with one another, united to strengthen themselves, as Ordericus Vitalis[1] thus
mentions. Cum Galli prius contra Romanos rebellâssent, Franci iis sociati sunt, & pariter juncti,
Ferramundum Sunonis ducis filium, sibi regem præfecerunt. Prosper sets down the time; Anno
25 Honorii, Pharamundus regnat in Francia. This, Bucher well observes, refers to the end of
the year 416, or the beginning of the next year, dating the years of Honorius from the death
of Valentinian; and argues well, that at this time Pharamond was not only King by the constitution
of the Franks, but crowned also by the consent of Honorius, and had a part of Gallia assigned
him by covenant. And this might be the cause that Roman writers reckoned him the first King:
which some not understanding, have reputed him the founder of this kingdom by an army of the
Transrhenane Franks. He might come with such an army, but he succeeded Theudomir by right of
blood and consent of the people. If you date the years of Honorius from the death of his father,
the reign of Pharamond might begin two years later than is assigned by Bucher. The Salique
laws made in his reign, which are yet extant, shew by their name that it was the kingdom of
the Salii over which he reigned; and, by the pecuniary mulcts in them, that the place where
he reigned abounded much with money, and consequently was within the Empire; rude Germany knowing
not the use of money, till they mixed with the Romans. In the Preface also to the Salique laws,
written and prefixed to them soon after the conversion of the Franks to the Christian religion,
that is, in the end of the reign of Merovæus, or soon after, the original of this kingdom is
thus described: Hæc enim gens, quæ fortis dum esset & robore valida, Romanorum jugum durissimum
de suis cervicibus excussit pugnando, &c. This kingdom therefore was erected, not by invasion
but by rebellion, as was described above. Prosper in registering their Kings in order, tells
us: Pharamundus regnat in Francia; Clodio regnat in Francia; Merovæus regnat in Francia: and
who can imagine but that in all these places he meant one and the same Francia? And yet 'tis
certain that the Francia of Merovæus was in Gallia.

Yet the father of Pharamond, being king of a body of Franks in Germany in the reign of the
Emperor Theodosius, as above, Pharamond might reign over the same Franks in Germany before
he succeeded Theudomir in the kingdom of the Salians within the Empire, and even before Theudomir
began his reign; suppose in the first year of Honorius, or when those Franks being repulsed
by Stilico, lost their Kings Marcomir and Suno, one of which was the father of Pharamond: and
the Roman Franks, after the death of Theudomir, might invite Pharamond with his people from
beyond the Rhine. But we are not to regard the reign of Pharamond in Germany: we are to date
this kingdom from its rise within the Empire, and to look upon it as strengthened by the access
of other Franks coming from beyond the Rhine, whether in the reign of this King or in that
of his successor Clodio. For in the last year of Pharamond's reign, Ætius took from him a part
of his possession in Gallia: but his successor Clodio, whom Fredigarius represents as the son
of Theudomir, and some call Clogio, Cloio, and Claudius, inviting from beyond the Rhine a great
body of Franks, recovered all, and carried on their conquests as far as the river Soame. Then
those Franks dividing conquests with him, erected certain new kingdoms at Cologn and Cambray,
and some other cities: all which were afterwards conquered by Clodovæus, who also drove the
Goths out of Gallia, and fix'd his seat at Paris, where it has continued ever since. And this
was the original of the present kingdom of France.

7. The Kings of Britain were, A.C. 407 or 408, Marcus, Gratian, and Constantine successively;
A.C. 425 Vortigern, 466 Aurelius Ambrosius, 498 Uther Pendraco, 508 Arthur, 542 Constantinus,
545 Aurelius Cunanus, 578 Vortiporeus, 581 Malgo, 586 Careticus, 613 Cadwan, 635 Cadwalin,
676 Cadwallader. The three first were Roman Tyrants, who revolted from the Empire. Orosius,
Prosper and Zosimus connect their revolt with the irruptions of the Barbarians into Gallia,
as consequent thereunto. Prosper, with whom Zosimus agrees, puts it in the year which began
the day after that irruption. The just time I thus collect: Marcus reigned not many days, Gratian
four months, and Constantine three years. He was slain the year after the taking of Rome, that
is A.C. 411, 14 Kal. Octob. Whence the revolt was in Spring A.C. 408. Sozomen joins Constantine's
expedition into Gallia with Arcadius's death, or the times a little after; and Arcadius died
A.C. 408 May the 1st. Now tho the reign of these Tyrants was but short, yet they gave a beginning
to the kingdom of Britain, and so may be reckoned the three first Kings, especially since the
posterity of Constantine, viz. his sons Aurelius Ambrosius, and Uther Pendraco, and his grandson
Arthur, reigned afterwards. For from the time of the revolt of these Tyrants Britain continued
a distict kingdom absolved from subjection to the Empire, the Emperor not being able to spare
soldiers to be sent thither to receive and keep the Island, and therefore neglecting it; as
we learn by unquestionable records. For Prosper tells us; A.C. 410, Variane Cos. Hac tempestate
præ valetudine Romanorum, vires funditùs attenuatæ Britanniæ. And Sigebert, conjoining this
with the siege of Rome, saith: Britannorum vires attenuatæ, & substrahunt se à Romanorum dominatione.
And Zosimus lib. 6. The Transrhenane Barbarians invading all places, reduced the inhabitants
of the island of Britain, and also certain Celtic nations to that pass, that they fell off
from the Roman Empire; and being no longer obedient to the Roman laws, [Greek: kat' heauton
biateuein], they lived in separate bodies after their own pleasure. The Britons therefore taking
up arms, and hazarding themselves for their own safety, freed their cities from the imminent
Barbarians. In like manner all Brabant and some other Provinces of the Gauls imitating the
Britons, freed themselves also, ejecting the Roman Presidents, and forming themselves into
a sort of commonwealth according to their own pleasure. This rebellion of Britain and the Celtic
nations happened when Constantine usurped the kingdom. So also Procopius, lib. 1. Vandal. speaking
of the same Constantine, saith: Constantine being overcome in battle, was slain with his children:
[Greek: Bretannian men toi Rômaioi anasôsasthai ouketi echon; all' ousa hypo tyrannous ap'
autou emene.] Yet the Romans could not recover Britain any more, but from that time it remained
under Tyrants. And Beda, l. 1. c. 11. Fracta est Roma à Gothis anno 1164 suæ conditionis; ex
quo tempore Romani in Britannia regnare cessaverunt. And Ethelwaldus: A tempore Romæ à Gothis
expugnatæ, cessavit imperium Romanorum à Britannia insula, & ab aliis; quas sub jugo servitutis
tenebant, multis terris. And Theodoret, serm. 9. de curand. Græc. affect. about the year 424,
reckons the Britons among the nations which were not then in subjection to the Roman Empire.
Thus Sigonius: ad annum 411, Imperium Romanorum post excessum Constantini in Britannia nullum fuit.

Between the death of Constantine and the reign of Vortigern was an interregnum of about 14
years, in which the Britons had wars with the Picts and Scots, and twice obtained the assistance
of a Roman Legion, who drove out the enemy, but told them positively at their departure that
they would come no more. Of Vortigern's beginning to reign there is this record in an old Chronicle
in Nennius, quoted by Camden and others: Guortigernus tenuit imperium in Britannia, Theodosio
& Valentiniano Coss. [viz. A.C. 425.] & in quarto anno regni sui Saxones ad Britanniam venerunt,
Felice & Tauro Coss. [viz. A.C. 428.] This coming of the Saxons, Sigebert refers to the 4th
year of Valentinian, which falls in with the year 428 assigned by this Chronicle: and two years
after, the Saxons together with the Picts were beaten by the Britons. Afterwards in the reign
of Martian the Emperor, that is, between the years 450 and 456, the Saxons under Hengist were
called in by the Britons, but six years after revolted from them, made war upon them with various
success, and by degrees succeeded them. Yet the Britons continued a flourishing kingdom till
the reign of Careticus; and the war between the two nations continued till the pontificate
of Sergius A.C. 688.[2]

8. The Kings of the Hunns were, A.C. 406 Octar and Rugila, 433 Bleda and Attila. Octar and
Rugila were the brothers of Munzuc King of the Hunns in Gothia beyond the Danube; and Bleda
and Attila were his sons, and Munzuc was the son of Balamir. The two first, as Jornandes tells
us, were Kings of the Hunns, but not of them all; and had the two last for their successors.
I date the reign of the Hunns in Pannonia from the time that the Vandals and Alans relinquished
Pannonia to them, A.C. 407. Sigonius from the time that the Visigoths relinquished Pannonia
A. C. 408. Constat, saith he, quod Gothis ex Illyrico profectis, Hunni successerunt, atque
imprimis Pannoniam tenuerunt. Neque enim Honorius viribus ad resistendum in tantis difficultatibus
destitutus, prorsus eos prohibere potuit, sed meliore consilio, animo ad pacem converso, foedus
cum eis, datis acceptisque obsidibus fecit; ex quibus qui dati sunt, Ætius, qui etiam Alarico
tributus fuerat, præcipue memoratur. How Ætius was hostage to the Goths and Hunns is related
by Frigeridus, who when he had mentioned that Theodosius Emperor of the East had sent grievous
commands to John, who after the death of Honorius had usurped the crown of the Western Empire,
he subjoins: Iis permotus Johannes, Ætium id tempus curam palatii gerentem cum ingenti auri
pondere ad Chunnos transmisit, notos sibi obsidiatûs sui tempore & familiari amicitiâ devinctos--And
a little after: Ætius tribus annis Alarici obses, dehinc Chunnorum, postea Carpilionis gener
ex Comite domesticorum & Joannis curopalatæ. Now Bucher shews that Ætius was hostage to Alaric
till the year 410, when Alaric died, and to the Hunns between the years 411 and 415, and son-in-law
to Carpilio about the year 417 or 418, and Curopalates to John about the end of the year 423.
Whence 'tis probable that he became hostage to the Hunns about the year 412 or 413, when Honorius
made leagues with almost all the barbarous nations, and granted them seats: but I had rather
say with Sigonius, that Ætius became hostage to Alaric A.C. 403. It is further manifest out
of Prosper, that the Hunns were in quiet possession of Pannonia in the year 432. For in the
first book of Eusebius's Chronicle Prosper writes: Anno decimo post obitum Honorii, cum ad
Chunnorum gentem cui tunc Rugila præerat, post prælium cum Bonifacio se Ætius contulisset,
impetrato auxilio ad Romanorum solum regreditur. And in the second book: Ætio & Valerio Coss.
Ætius depositâ potestate profugus ad Hunnos in Pannonia pervenit, quorum amicitiâ auxilioque
usus, pacem principum interpellatæ potestatis obtinuit. Hereby it appears that at this time
Rugila, or as Maximus calls him, Rechilla, reigned over the Hunns in Pannonia; and that Pannonia
was not now so much as accounted within the soil of the Empire, being formerly granted away
to the Hunns; and that these were the very same body of Hunns with which Ætius had, in the
time of his being an hostage, contracted friendship: by virtue of which, as he sollicited them
before to the aid of John the Tyrant A.C. 424, so now he procured their intercession for himself
with the Emperor. Octar died A.C. 430; for Socrates tells us, that about that time the Burgundians
having been newly vext by the Hunns, upon intelligence of Octar's death, seeing them without
a leader, set upon them suddenly with so much vigour, that 3000 Burgundians slew 10000 Hunns.
Of Rugila's being now King in Pannonia you have heard already. He died A.C. 433, and was succeeded
by Bleda, as Prosper and Maximus inform us. This Bleda with his brother Attila were before
this time Kings of the Hunns beyond the Danube, their father Munzuc's kingdom being divided
between them; and now they united the kingdom Pannonia to their own. Whence Paulus Diaconus
saith, they did regnum intra Pannoniam Daciamque gerere. In the year 441, they began to invade
the Empire afresh, adding to the Pannonian forces new and great armies from Scythia. But this
war was presently composed, and then Attila, seeing Bleda inclined to peace, slew him, A.C.
444, inherited his dominions, and invaded the Empire again. At length, after various great
wars with the Romans, Attila perished A.C. 454; and his sons quarrelling about his dominions,
gave occasion to the Gepides, Ostrogoths and other nations who were their subjects, to rebel
and make war upon them. The same year the Ostrogoths had seats granted them in Pannonia by
the Emperors Marcian and Valentinian; and with the Romans ejected the Hunns out of Pannonia,
soon after the death of Attila, as all historians agree. This ejection was in the reign of
Avitus, as is mentioned in the Chronicum Boiorum, and in Sidonius, Carm. 7 in Avitum, which
speaks thus of that Emperor.

  ----Cujus solum amissas post sæcula multa
  Pannonias revocavit iter, jam credere promptum est.
  Quid faciet bellis.

The Poet means, that by the coming of Avitus the Hunns yielded more easily to the Goths. This
was written by Sidonius in the beginning of the reign of Avitus: and his reign began in the
end of the year 455, and lasted not one full year.

Jornandes tells us: Duodecimo anno regni Valiæ, quando & Hunni post pene quinquaginta annos
invasa Pannonia, à Romanis & Gothis expulsi sunt. And Marcellinus: Hierio & Ardaburio Coss.
Pannoniæ, quæ per quinquaginta annos ab Hunnis retinebantur, à Romanis receptæ sunt: whence
it should seem that the Hunns invaded and held Pannonia from the year 378 or 379 to the year
427, and then were driven out of it. But this is a plain mistake: for it is certain that the
Emperor Theodosius left the Empire entire; and we have shewed out of Prosper, that the Hunns
were in quiet possession of Pannonia in the year 432. The Visigoths in those days had nothing
to do with Pannonia, and the Ostrogoths continued subject to the Hunns till the death of Attila,
A.C. 454; and Valia King of the Visigoths did not reign twelve years. He began his reign in
the end of the year 415, reigned three years, and was slain A.C. 419, as Idacius, Isidorus,
and the Spanish manuscript Chronicles seen by Grotius testify. And Olympiodorus, who carries
his history only to the year 425, sets down therein the death of Valia King of the Visigoths,
and conjoins it with that of Constantius which happened A.C. 420. Wherefore the Valia of Jornandes,
who reigned at the least twelve years, is some other King. And I suspect that this name hath
been put by mistake for Valamir King of the Ostrogoths: for the action recorded was of the
Romans and Ostrogoths driving the Hunns out of Pannonia after the death of Attila; and it is
not likely that the historian would refer the history of the Ostrogoths to the years of the
Visigothic Kings. This action happened in the end of the year 455, which I take to be the twelfth
year of Valamir in Pannonia, and which was almost fifty years after the year 406, in which
the Hunns succeeded the Vandals and Alans in Pannonia. Upon the ceasing of the line of Hunnimund
the son of Hermaneric, the Ostrogoths lived without Kings of their own nation about forty years
together, being subject to the Hunns. And when Alaric began to make war upon the Romans, which
was in the year 444, he made Valamir, with his brothers Theodomir and Videmir the grandsons
of Vinethar, captains or kings of these Ostrogoths under him. In the twelfth year of Valamir's
reign dated from thence, the Hunns were driven out of Pannonia.

Yet the Hunns were not so ejected, but that they had further contests with the Romans, till
the head of Denfix the son of Attila, was carried to Constantinople, A.C. 469, in the Consulship
of Zeno and Marcian, as Marcellinus relates. Nor were they yet totally ejected the Empire:
for besides their reliques in Pannonia, Sigonius tells us, that when the Emperors Marcian and
Valentinian granted Pannonia to the Goths, which was in the year 454, they granted part of
Illyricum to some of the Hunns and Sarmatians. And in the year 526, when the Lombards removing
into Pannonia made war there with the Gepides, the Avares, a part of the Hunns, who had taken
the name of Avares from one of their Kings, assisted the Lombards in that war; and the Lombards
afterwards, when they went into Italy, left their seats in Pannonia to the Avares in recompence
of their friendship. From that time the Hunns grew again very powerful; their Kings, whom they
called Chagan, troubling the Empire much in the reigns of the Emperors Mauritius, Phocas, and
Heraclius: and this is the original of the present kingdom of Hungary, which from these Avares
and other Hunns mixed together, took the name of Hun-Avaria, and by contraction Hungary.

9. The Lombards, before they came over the Danube, were commanded by two captains, Ibor and
Ayon: after whose death they had Kings, Agilmund, Lamisso, Lechu, Hildehoc, Gudehoc, Classo,
Tato, Wacho, Walter, Audoin, Alboin, Cleophis, &c. Agilmund was the son of Ayon, who became
their King, according to Prosper, in the Consulship of Honorius and Theodosius A.C. 389, reigned
thirty three years, according to Paulus Warnefridus, and was slain in battle by the Bulgarians.
Prosper places his death in the Consulship of Marinianus and Asclepiodorus, A.C. 413. Lamisso
routed the Bulgarians, and reigned three years, and Lechu almost forty. Gudehoc was contemporary
to Odoacer King of the Heruli in Italy, and led his people from Pannonia into Rugia, a country
on the north side of Noricum next beyond the Danube; from whence Odoacer then carried his people
into Italy. Tato overthrew the kingdom of the Heruli beyond the Danube. Wacho conquered the
Suevians, a kingdom then bounded on the east by Bavaria, on the west by France, and on the
south by the Burgundians. Audoin returned into Pannonia A.C. 526, and there overcame the Gepides.
Alboin A.C. 551 overthrew the kingdom of the Gepides, and slew their King Chunnimund: A.C.
563 he assisted the Greek Emperor against Totila King of the Ostrogoths in Italy; and A.C.
568 led his people out of Pannonia into Lombardy, where they reigned till the year 774.

According to Paulus Diaconus, the Lombards with many other Gothic nations came into the Empire
from beyond the Danube in the reign of Arcadius and Honorius, that is, between the years 395
and 408. But they might come in a little earlier: for we are told that the Lombards, under
their captains Ibor and Ayon, beat the Vandals in battle; and Prosper placeth this victory
in the Consulship of Ausonius and Olybrius, that is, A.C. 379. Before this war the Vandals
had remained quiet forty years in the seats granted them in Pannonia by Constantine the great.
And therefore if these were the same Vandals, this war must have been in Pannonia; and might
be occasioned by the coming of the Lombards over the Danube into Pannonia, a year or two before
the battle; and so have put an end to that quiet which had lasted forty years. After Gratian
and Theodosius had quieted the Barbarians, they might either retire over the Danube, or continue
quiet under the Romans till the death of Theodosius; and then either invade the Empire anew,
or throw off all subjection to it. By their wars, first with the Vandals, and then with the
Bulgarians, a Scythian nation so called from the river Volga whence they came; it appears that
even in those days they were a kingdom not contemptible.

10. These nine kingdoms being rent away, we are next to consider the residue of the Western
Empire. While this Empire continued entire, it was the Beast itself: but the residue thereof
is only a part of it. Now if this part be considered as a horn, the reign of this horn may
be dated from the translation of the imperial seat from Rome to Ravenna, which was in October
A.C. 408. For then the Emperor Honorius, fearing that Alaric would besiege him in Rome, if
he staid there, retired to Millain, and thence to Ravenna: and the ensuing siege and sacking
of Rome confirmed his residence there, so that he and his successors ever after made it their
home. Accordingly Macchiavel in his Florentine history writes, that Valentinian having left
Rome, translated the seat of the Empire to Ravenna.

Rhætia belonged to the Western Emperors, so long as that Empire stood; and then it descended,
with Italy and the Roman Senate, to Odoacer King of the Heruli in Italy, and after him to Theoderic
King of the Ostrogoths and his successors, by the grant of the Greek Emperors. Upon the death
of Valentinian the second, the Alemans and Suevians invaded Rhætia A.C. 455. But I do not find
they erected any settled kingdom there: for in the year 457, while they were yet depopulating
Rhætia, they were attacked and beaten by Burto Master of the horse to the Emperor Majoranus;
and I hear nothing more of their invading Rhætia. Clodovæus King of France, in or about the
year 496, conquered a kingdom of the Alemans, and slew their last King Ermeric. But this kingdom
was seated in Germany, and only bordered upon Rhætia: for its people fled from Clodovæus into
the neighbouring kingdom of the Ostrogoths under Theoderic, who received them as friends, and
wrote a friendly letter to Clodovæus in their behalf: and by this means they became inhabitants
of Rhætia, as subjects under the dominion of the Ostrogoths.

When the Greek Emperor conquered the Ostrogoths, he succeeded them in the kingdom of Ravenna,
not only by right of conquest but also by right of inheritance, the Roman Senate still going
along with this kingdom. Therefore we may reckon that this kingdom continued in the Exarchate
of Ravenna and Senate of Rome: for the remainder of the Western Empire went along with the
Senate of Rome, by reason of the right which this Senate still retained, and at length exerted,
of chusing a new Western Emperor.

I have now enumerated the ten kingdoms, into which the Western Empire became divided at its
first breaking, that is, at the time of Rome's being besieged and taken by the Goths. Some
of these kingdoms at length fell, and new ones arose: but whatever was their number afterwards,
they are still called the Ten Kings from their first number.

Notes to Chap. VI.

[1] Apud Bucherum, l. 14. c. 9. n. 8.

[2] Rolevinc's Antiqua Saxon. l. 1. c. 6.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAP. VII.

Of the eleventh horn of Daniel's fourth Beast. Kings are put for kingdoms, as above; and therefore
the little horn is a little kingdom. It was a horn of the fourth Beast, and rooted up three
of his first horns; and therefore we are to look for it among the nations of the Latin Empire,
after the rise of the ten horns. But it was a kingdom of a different kind from the other ten
kingdoms, having a life or soul peculiar to itself, with eyes and a mouth. By its eyes it was
a Seer; and by its mouth speaking great things and changing times and laws, it was a Prophet
as well as a King. And such a Seer, a Prophet and a King, is the Church of Rome.

A Seer, [Greek: Episkopos], is a Bishop in the literal sense of the word; and this Church claims
the universal Bishoprick.

With his mouth he gives laws to kings and nations as an Oracle; and pretends to Infallibility,
and that his dictates are binding to the whole world; which is to be a Prophet in the highest
degree.

In the eighth century, by rooting up and subduing the Exarchate of Ravenna, the kingdom of
the Lombards, and the Senate and Dukedom of Rome, he acquired Peter's Patrimony out of their
dominions; and thereby rose up as a temporal Prince or King, or horn of the fourth Beast.

In a small book printed at Paris A.C. 1689, entitled, An historical dissertation upon some
coins of Charles the great, Ludovicus Pius, Lotharius, and their successors stamped at Rome,
it is recorded, that in the days of Pope Leo X, there was remaining in the Vatican, and till
those days exposed to public view, an inscription in honour of Pipin the father of Charles
the great, in these words: Pipinum pium, primum fuisse qui amplificandæ Ecclesiæ Romanæ viam
aperuerit, Exarchatu Ravennate, & plurimis aliis oblatis; "That Pipin the pious was the first
who opened a way to the grandeur of the Church of Rome, conferring upon her the Exarchate of
Ravenna and many other oblations." In and before the reign of the Emperors Gratian and Theodosius,
the Bishop of Rome lived splendidly; but this was by the oblations of the Roman Ladies, as
Ammianus describes. After those reigns Italy was invaded by foreign nations, and did not get
rid of her troubles before the fall of the kingdom of Lombardy. It was certainly by the victory
of the see of Rome over the Greek Emperor, the King of Lombardy, and the Senate of Rome, that
she acquired Peter's Patrimony, and rose up to her greatness. The donation of Constantine the
Great is a fiction, and so is the donation of the Alpes Cottiæ to the Pope by Aripert King
of the Lombards: for the Alpes Cottiæ were a part of the Exarchate, and in the days of Aripert
belonged to the Greek Emperor.

The invocation of the dead, and veneration of their images, being gradually introduced in the
4th, 5th, 6th and 7th centuries, the Greek Emperor Philippicus declared against the latter,
A.C. 711 or 712. And [5] the Emperor Leo Isaurus, to put a stop to it, called a meeting of
Counsellors and Bishops in his Palace, A.C. 726; and by their advice put out an Edict against
that worship, and wrote to Pope Gregory II. that a general Council might be called. But the
Pope thereupon called a Council at Rome, confirmed the worship of Images, excommunicated the
Greek Emperor, absolved the people from their allegiance, and forbad them to pay tribute, or
otherwise be obedient to him. Then the people of Rome, Campania, Ravenna and Pentapolis, with
the cities under them, revolted and laid violent hands upon their magistrates, killing the
Exarch Paul at Ravenna, and laying aside Peter Duke of Rome who was become blind: and when
Exhileratus Duke of Campania incited the people against the Pope, the Romans invaded Campania,
and slew him with his son Hadrian. Then a new Exarch, Eutychius, coming to Naples, sent some
secretly to take away the lives of the Pope and the Nobles of Rome: but the plot being discovered,
the Romans revolted absolutely from the Greek Emperor, and took an oath to preserve the life
of the Pope, to defend his state, and be obedient to his authority in all things. Thus Rome
with its Duchy, including part of Tuscany and part of Campania, revolted in the year 726, and
became a free state under the government of the Senate of this city. The authority of the Senate
in civil affairs was henceforward absolute, the authority of the Pope extending hitherto no
farther than to the affairs of the Church only.

At that time [6] the Lombards also being zealous for the worship of images, and pretending
to favour the cause of the Pope, invaded the cities of the Exarchate: and at length, viz. A.C.
752, took Ravenna, and put an end to the Exarchate. And this was the first of the three kingdoms
which fell before the little horn.

In the year 751 [7] Pope Zechary deposed Childeric, a slothful and useless King of France,
and the last of the race of Merovæus; and absolving his subjects from their oath of allegiance,
gave the kingdom to Pipin the major of the Palace; and thereby made a new and potent friend.
His successor [8] Pope Stephen III, knowing better how to deal with the Greek Emperor than
with the Lombards, went the next year to the King of the Lombards, to persuade him to return
the Exarchate to the Emperor. But this not succeeding, he went into France, and persuaded Pipin
to take the Exarchate and Pentapolis from the Lombards, and give it to St. Peter. Accordingly
Pipin A.C. 754 came with an army into Italy, and made Aistulphus King of the Lombards promise
the surrender: but the next year Aistulphus, on the contrary, to revenge himself on the Pope,
besieged the city of Rome. Whereupon the Pope sent letters to Pipin, wherein he told him that
if he came not speedily against the Lombards, pro data sibi potentia, alienandum fore à regno
Dei & vita æterna, he should be excommunicated. Pipin therefore, fearing a revolt of his subjects,
and being indebted to the Church of Rome, came speedily with an army into Italy, raised the
siege, besieged the Lombards in Pavia, and forced them to surrender the Exarchate and region
of Pentapolis to the Pope for a perpetual possession. Thus the Pope became Lord of Ravenna,
and the Exarchate, some few cities excepted; and the keys were sent to Rome, and laid upon
the confession of St. Peter, that is, upon his tomb at the high Altar, in signum veri perpetuique
dominii, sed pietate Regis gratuita, as the inscription of a coin of Pipin hath it. This was
in the year of Christ 755. And henceforward the Popes being temporal Princes, left off in their
Epistles and Bulls to note the years of the Greek Emperors, as they had hitherto done.

After this [9] the Lombards invading the Pope's countries, Pope Adrian sent to Charles the
great, the son and successor of Pipin, to come to his assistance. Accordingly Charles entered
Italy with an army, invaded the Lombards, overthrew their kingdom, became master of their countries,
and restored to the Pope, not only what they had taken from him, but also the rest of the Exarchate
which they had promised Pipin to surrender to him, but had hitherto detained; and also gave
him some cities of the Lombards, and was in return himself made Patricius by the Romans, and
had the authority of confirming the elections of the Popes conferred upon him. These things
were done in the years 773 and 774. This kingdom of the Lombards was the second kingdom which
fell before the little horn. But Rome, which was to be the seat of his kingdom, was not yet
his own.

In the year 796, [10] Leo III being made Pope, notified his election to Charles the great by
his Legates, sending to him for a present, the golden keys of the Confession of Peter, and
the Banner of the city of Rome: the first as an acknowledgment of the Pope's holding the cities
of the Exarchate and Lombardy by the grant of Charles; the other as a signification that Charles
should come and subdue the Senate and people of Rome, as he had done the Exarchate and the
kingdom of the Lombards. For the Pope at the same time desired Charles to send some of his
Princes to Rome, who might subject the Roman people to him, and bind them by oath in fide &
subjectione, in fealty and subjection, as his words are recited by Sigonius. An anonymous Poet,
publish'd by Boeclerus at Strasburg, expresseth it thus:

  Admonuitque piis precibus, qui mittere vellet
  Ex propriis aliquos primoribus, ac sibi plebem
  Subdere Romanam, servandaque foedera cogens
  Hanc fidei sacramentis promittere magnis.

Hence arose a misunderstanding between the Pope and the city: and the Romans about two or three
years after, by assistance of some of the Clergy, raised such tumults against him, as gave
occasion to a new state of things in all the West. For two of the Clergy accused him of crimes,
and the Romans with an armed force, seized him, stript him of his sacerdotal habit, and imprisoned
him in a monastery. But by assistance of his friends he made his escape, and fled into Germany
to Charles the great, to whom he complained of the Romans for acting against him out of a design
to throw off all authority of the Church, and to recover their antient freedom. In his absence
his accusers with their forces ravaged the possessions of the Church, and sent the accusations
to Charles; who before the end of the year sent the Pope back to Rome with a large retinue.
The Nobles and Bishops of France who accompanied him, examined the chief of his accusers at
Rome, and sent them into France in custody. This was in the year 799. The next year Charles
himself went to Rome, and upon a day appointed presided in a Council of Italian and French
Bishops to hear both parties. But when the Pope's adversaries expected to be heard, the Council
declared [11] that he who was the supreme judge of all men, was above being judged by any other
than himself: whereupon he made a solemn declaration of his innocence before all the people,
and by doing so was looked upon as acquitted.

Soon after, upon Christmas-day, the people of Rome, who had hitherto elected their Bishop,
and reckoned that they and their Senate inherited the rights of the antient Senate and people
of Rome, voted Charles their Emperor, and subjected themselves to him in such manner as the
old Roman Empire and their Senate were subjected to the old Roman Emperors. The Pope crowned
him, and anointed him with holy oil, and worshipped him on his knees after the manner of adoring
the old Roman Emperors; as the aforesaid Poet thus relates:

  Post laudes igitur dictas & summus eundem
  Præsul adoravit, sicut mos debitus olim
  Principibus fuit antiquis.

The Emperor, on the other hand, took the following oath to the Pope: In nomine Christi spondeo
atque polliceor, Ego Carolus Imperator coram Deo & beato Petro Apostolo, me protectorem ac
defensorem fore hujus sanctæ Romanæ Ecclesiæ in omnibus utilitatibus, quatenùs divino fultus
fuero adjutorio, prout sciero poteroque. The Emperor was also made Consul of Rome, and his
son Pipin crowned King of Italy: and henceforward the Emperor stiled himself: Carolus serenissimus,
Augustus, à Deo coronatus, magnus, pacificus, Romæ gubernans imperium, or Imperator Romanorum;
and was prayed for in the Churches of Rome. His image was henceforward put upon the coins of
Rome: while the enemies of the Pope, to the number of three hundred Romans and two or three
of the Clergy, were sentenced to death. The three hundred Romans were beheaded in one day in
the Lateran fields: but the Clergymen at the intercession of the Pope were pardoned, and banished
into France. And thus the title of Roman Emperor, which had hitherto been in the Greek Emperors,
was by this act transferred in the West to the Kings of France.

After these things [12] Charles gave the City and Duchy of Rome to the Pope, subordinately
to himself as Emperor of the Romans; spent the winter in ordering the affairs of Rome, and
those of the Apostolic see, and of all Italy, both civil and ecclesiastical, and in making
new laws for them; and returned the next summer into France: leaving the city under its Senate,
and both under the Pope and himself. But hearing that his new laws were not observed by the
judges in dictating the law, nor by the people in hearing it; and that the great men took servants
from free men, and from the Churches and Monasteries, to labour in their vineyards, fields,
pastures and houses, and continued to exact cattle and wine of them, and to oppress those that
served the Churches: he wrote to his son Pipin to remedy these abuses, to take care of the
Church, and see his laws executed.

Now the Senate and people and principality of Rome I take to be the third King the little horn
overcame, and even the chief of the three. For this people elected the Pope and the Emperor;
and now, by electing the Emperor and making him Consul, was acknowledged to retain the authority
of the old Roman Senate and people. This city was the Metropolis of the old Roman Empire, represented
in Daniel by the fourth Beast; and by subduing the Senate and people and Duchy, it became the
Metropolis of the little horn of that Beast, and completed Peter's Patrimony, which was the
kingdom of that horn. Besides, this victory was attended with greater consequences than those
over the other two Kings. For it set up the Western Empire, which continues to this day. It
set up the Pope above the judicature of the Roman Senate, and above that of a Council of Italian
and French Bishops, and even above all human judicature; and gave him the supremacy over the
Western Churches and their Councils in a high degree. It gave him a look more stout than his
fellows; so that when this new religion began to be established in the minds of men, he grappled
not only with Kings, but even with the Western Emperor himself. It is observable also, that
the custom of kissing the Pope's feet, an honour superior to that of Kings and Emperors, began
about this time. There are some instances of it in the ninth century: Platina tells us, that
the feet of Pope Leo IV were kissed, according to antient custom, by all who came to him: and
some say that Leo III began this custom, pretending that his hand was infected by the kiss
of a woman. The Popes began also about this time to canonize saints, and to grant indulgences
and pardons: and some represent that Leo III was the first author of all these things. It is
further observable, that Charles the great, between the years 775 and 796, conquered all Germany
from the Rhine and Danube northward to the Baltic sea, and eastward to the river Teis; extending
his conquests also into Spain as far as the river Ebro: and by these conquests he laid the
foundation of the new Empire; and at the same time propagated the Roman Catholic religion into
all his conquests, obliging the Saxons and Hunns who were heathens, to receive the Roman faith,
and distributing his northern conquests into Bishopricks, granting tithes to the Clergy and
Peter-pence to the Pope: by all which the Church of Rome was highly enlarged, enriched, exalted,
and established. In the Mosaic work there appeared Peter with three keys in his lap, reaching
the Pallium to the Pope with his right hand, and the banner of the city to Charles the great
with his left. By the Pope was this inscription, SCISSIMUS D.N. LEO PP; by the King this, D.N.
CARVLO REGI; and under the feet of Peter this, BEATE PETRE, DONA VITAM LEONI PP, ET BICTORIAM
CARVLO REGI DONA. This Monument gives the title of King to Charles, and therefore was erected
before he was Emperor. It was erected when Peter was reaching the Pallium to the Pope, and
the Pope was sending the banner of the city to Charles, that is, A.C. 796. The words above,
Sanctissimus Dominus noster Leo Papa Domino nostro Carolo Regi, relate to the message; and
the words below, Beate Petre, dona vitam Leoni Papæ & victoriam Carolo regi dona, are a prayer
that in this undertaking God would preserve the life of the Pope, and give victory to the King
over the Romans. The three keys in the lap of Peter signify the keys of the three parts of
his Patrimony, that of Rome with its Duchy, which the Pope claimed and was conquering, those
of Ravenna with the Exarchate, and of the territories taken from the Lombards; both which he
had newly conquered. These were the three dominions, whose keys were in the lap of St. Peter,
and whose Crowns are now worn by the Pope, and by the conquest of which he became the little
horn of the fourth Beast. By Peter's giving the Pallium to the Pope with his right hand, and
the banner of the city to the King with his left, and by naming the Pope before the King in
the inscription, may be understood that the Pope was then reckoned superior in dignity to the
Kings of the earth.

After the death of Charles the great, his son and successor Ludovicus Pius, at the request
of the Pope, [13] confirmed the donations of his grandfather and father to the see of Rome.
And in the confirmation he names first Rome with its Duchy extending into Tuscany and Campania;
then the Exarchate of Ravenna, with Pentapolis; and in the third place, the territories taken
from the Lombards. These are his three conquests, and he was to hold them of the Emperor for
the use of the Church sub integritate, entirely, without the Emperor's medling therewith, or
with the jurisdiction or power of the Pope therein, unless called thereto in certain cases.
This ratification the Emperor Ludovicus made under an oath: and as the King of the Ostrogoths,
for acknowledging that he held his kingdom of Italy of the Greek Emperor, stamped the effigies
of the Emperor on one side of his coins and his own on the reverse; so the Pope made the like
acknowledgment to the Western Emperor. For the Pope began now to coin money, and the coins
of Rome are henceforward found with the heads of the Emperors, Charles, Ludovicus Pius, Lotharius,
and their successors, on the one side, and the Pope's inscription on the reverse, for many years.

Notes to Chap. VII.

[1] Chap. vii. 8.

[2] Ver. 20, 21.

[3] Ver. 24.

[4] Ver. 25.

[5] Sigonius de Regno Italiæ, ad Ann. 726.

[6] Sigonius ib. ad Ann. 726, 752.

[7] Sigon. ib. Ann. 750.

[8] Sigon. ib. Ann. 753, 754, 755.

[9] Sigon. ib. Ann. 773.

[10] Sigon. de Regno Ital. ad Ann. 796.

[11] Vide Anastasium.

[12] Sigon. de Regno Ital.

[13] Confirmationem recitat Sigonius, lib. 4. de Regno Italiæ, ad An. 817.

In the reign of the Greek Emperor Justinian, and again in the reign of Phocas, the Bishop of
Rome obtained some dominion over the Greek Churches, but of no long continuance. His standing
dominion was only over the nations of the Western Empire, represented by Daniel's fourth Beast.
And this jurisdiction was set up by the following Edict of the Emperors Gratian and Valentinian.--[1]
Volumus ut quicunque judicio Damasi, quod ille cum Concilio quinque vel septem habuerit Episcoporum,
vel eorum qui Catholici sunt judicio vel Concilio condemnatus fuerit, si juste voluerit Ecclesiam
retentare, ut qui ad sacerdotale judicium per contumeliam non ivisset: ut ab illustribus viris
Præfectis Prætorio Galliæ atque Italiæ, authoritate adhibitâ, ad Episcopale judicium remittatur,
sive à Consularibus vel Vicariis, ut ad Urbem Romam sub prosecutione perveniat. Aut si in longinquioribus
partibus alicujus ferocitas talis emerserit, omnis ejus causæ edictio ad Metropolitæ in eadem
Provincia Episcopi deduceretur examen. Vel si ipse Metropolitanus est, Romam necessariò, vel
ad eos quos Romanus Episcopus judices dederit, sine delatione contendat.----Quod si vel Metropolitani
Episcopi vel cujuscunque sacerdotis iniquitas est suspecta, aut gratia; ad Romanum Episcopum,
vel ad Concilium quindecim finitimorum Episcoporum accersitum liceat provocare; modo ne post
examen habitum, quod definitum fuerit, integretur. This Edict wanting the name of both Valens
and Theodosius in the Title, was made in the time between their reigns, that is, in the end
of the year 378, or the beginning of 379. It was directed to the Præfecti Prætorio Italiæ &
Galliæ, and therefore was general. For the Præfectus Prætorio Italiæ governed Italy, Illyricum
occidentale and Africa; and the Præfectus Prætorio Galliæ governed Gallia, Spain, and Britain.

The granting of this jurisdiction to the Pope gave several Bishops occasion to write to him
for his resolutions upon doubtful cases, whereupon he answered by decretal Epistles; and henceforward
he gave laws to the Western Churches by such Epistles. Himerius Bishop of Tarraco, the head
city of a province in Spain, writing to Pope Damasus for his direction about certain Ecclesiastical
matters, and the Letter not arriving at Rome till after the death of Damasus, A.C. 384; his
successor Siricius answered the same with a legislative authority, telling him of one thing:
Cum hoc fieri--missa ad Provincias à venerandæ memoriæ prædecessore meo Liberio generalia decreta,
prohibeant. Of another: Noverint se ab omni ecclesiastico honore, quo indignè usi sunt, Apostolicæ
Sedis auctoritate, dejectos. Of another: Scituri posthac omnium Provinciarum summi Antistites,
quod si ultrò ad sacros ordines quenquam de talibus esse assumendum, & de suo & de aliorum
statu, quos contra Canones & interdicta nostra provexerint, congruam ab Apostolica Sede promendam
esse sententiam. And the Epistle he concludes thus: Explicuimus, ut arbitror, frater charissime,
universa quæ digesta sunt in querelam; & ad singulas causas, de quibus ad Romanam Ecclesiam,
utpote ad caput tui corporis, retulisti; sufficientia, quantum opinor, responsa reddidimus.
Nunc fraternitatis tuæ animum ad servandos canones, & tenenda decretalia constituta, magis
ac magis incitamus: ad hæc quæ ad tua consulta rescripsimus in omnium Coepiscoporum perferri
facias notionem; & non solum corum, qui in tua sunt dioecesi constituti, sed etiam ad universos
Carthaginenses ac Boeticos, Lusitanos atque [2] Gallicos, vel eos qui vicinis tibi collimitant
hinc inde Provinciis, hæc quæ a nobis sunt salubri ordinatione disposita, sub literarum tuarum
prosecutione mittantur. Et quanquam statuta sedis Apostolicæ vel Canonum venerabilia definita,
nulli Sacerdotum Domini ignorare sit liberum: utilius tamen, atque pro antiquitate sacerdotii
tui, dilectioni tuæ esse admodùm poterit gloriosum, si ea quæ ad te speciali nomine generaliter
scripta sunt, per unanimitatis tuæ sollicitudinem in universorum fratrum nostrorum notitiam
perferantur; quatenus & quæ à nobis non inconsultè sed providè sub nimia cautela & deliberatione
sunt salubriter constituta, intemerata permaneant, & omnibus in posterum excusationibus aditus,
qui jam nulli apud nos patere poterit, obstruatur. Dat. 3 Id. Febr. Arcadio & Bautone viris
clarissimis Consulibus, A.C. 385. Pope Liberius in the reign of Jovian or Valentinian I. sent
general Decrees to the Provinces, ordering that the Arians should not be rebaptized: and this
he did in favour of the Council of Alexandria, that nothing more should be required of them
than to renounce their opinions. Pope Damasus is said to have decreed in a Roman Council, that
Tithes and Tenths should be paid upon pain of an Anathema; and that Glory be to the Father,
&c. should be said or sung at the end of the Psalms. But the first decretal Epistle now extant
is this of Siricius to Himerius; by which the Pope made Himerius his Vicar over all Spain for
promulging his Decrees, and seeing them observed. The Bishop of Sevill was also the Pope's
Vicar sometimes; for Simplicius wrote thus to Zeno Bishop of that place: Talibus idcirco gloriantes
indiciis, congruum duximus vicariâ Sedis nostræ te auctoritate fulciri: cujus vigore munitus,
Apostolicæ institutionis Decreta, vel sanctorum terminos Patrum, nullatenus transcendi permittas.
And Pope Hormisda [3] made the Bishop of Sevill his Vicar over Boetica and Lusitania, and the
Bishop of Tarraco his Vicar over all the rest of Spain, as appears by his Epistles to them.

Pope Innocent the first, in his decretal Epistle to Victricius Bishop of Rouen in France, A.C.
404, in pursuance of the Edict of Gratian, made this Decree: Si quæ autem causæ vel contentiones
inter Clericos tam superioris ordinis quam etiam inferioris fuerint exortæ; ut secundum Synodum
Nicenam congregatis ejusdem Provinciæ Episcopis jurgium terminetur: nec alicui liceat, [4]
Romanæ Ecclesiæ, cujus in omnibus causis debet reverentia custodiri, relictis his sacerdotibus,
qui in eadem Provincia Dei Ecclesiam nutu Divino gubernant, ad alias convolare Provincias.
Quod siquis fortè præsumpserit; & ab officio Clericatûs summotus, & injuriarum reus judicetur.
Si autem majores causæ in medium fuerint devolutæ, ad Sedem Apostolicam sicut Synodus statuit,
& beata consuetudo exigit, post judicium Episcopale referantur. By these Letters it seems to
me that Gallia was now subject to the Pope, and had been so for some time, and that the Bishop
of Rouen was then his Vicar or one of them: for the Pope directs him to refer the greater causes
to the See of Rome, according to custom. But the Bishop of Arles soon after became the Pope's
Vicar over all Gallia: for Pope Zosimus, A.C. 417, ordaining that none should have access to
him without the credentials of his Vicars, conferred upon Patroclus the Bishop of Arles this
authority over all Gallia, by the following Decree.

Zosimus universis Episcopis per Gallias & septem Provincias constitutis.

Placuit Apostolicæ Sedi, ut siquis ex qualibet Galliarum parte sub quolibet ecclesiastico gradu
ad nos Romæ venire contendit, vel aliò terrarum ire disponit, non aliter proficiscatur nisi
Metropolitani Episcopi Formatas acceperit, quibus sacerdotium suum vel locum ecclesiasticum
quem habet, scriptorum ejus adstipulatione perdoceat: quod ex gratia statuimus quia plures
episcopi sive presbyteri sive ecclesiastici simulantes, quia nullum documentum Formatarum extat
per quod valeant confutari, in nomen venerationis irrepunt, & indebitam reverentiam promerentur.
Quisquis igitur, fratres charissimi, prætermissà supradicti Formatâ sive episcopus, sive presbyter,
sive diaconus, aut deinceps inferiori gradu sit, ad nos venerit: sciat se omnino suscipi non
posse. Quam auctoritatem ubique nos misisse manifestum est, ut cunctis regionibus innotescat
id quod statuimus omnimodis esse servandum. Siquis autem hæc salubriter constituta temerare
tentaverit sponte suâ, se a nostra noverit communione discretum. Hoc autem privilegium Formatarum
sancto Patroclo fratri & coepiscopo nostro, meritorum ejus speciali contemplatione, concessimus.
And that the Bishop of Arles was sometimes the Pope's Vicar over all France, is affirmed also
by all the Bishops of the Diocess of Arles in their Letter to Pope Leo I. Cui id etiam honoris
dignitatisque collatum est, say they, ut non tantum has Provincias potestate propriâ gubernaret;
verum etiam omnes Gallias sibi Apostolicæ Sedis vice mandatas, sub omni ecclesiastica regula
contineret. And Pope Pelagius I. A.C. 556, in his Epistle to Sapaudus Bishop of Arles: Majorum
nostrorum, operante Dei misericordiâ, cupientes inhærere vestigiis & eorum actus divino examine
in omnibus imitari: Charitati tuæ per universam Galliam, sanctæ Sedis Apostolicæ, cui divinâ
gratiâ præsidemus, vices injungimus.

By the influence of the same imperial Edict, not only Spain and Gallia, but also Illyricum
became subject to the Pope. Damasus made Ascholius, or Acholius, Bishop of Thessalonica the
Metropolis of Oriental Illyricum, his Vicar for hearing of causes; and in the year 382, Acholius
being summoned by Pope Damasus, came to a Council at Rome. Pope Siricius the successor of Damasus,
decreed that no Bishop should be ordained in Illyricum without the consent of Anysius the successor
of Acholius. And the following Popes gave Rufus the successor of Anysius, a power of calling
Provincial Councils: for in the Collections of Holstenius there is an account of a Council
of Rome convened under Pope Boniface II. in which were produced Letters of Damasus, Syricius,
Innocent I. Boniface I. and Cælestine Bishops of Rome, to Ascholius, Anysius and Rufus, Bishops
of Thessalonica: in which Letters they commend to them the hearing of causes in Illyricum,
granted by the Lord and the holy Canons to the Apostolic See thro'out that Province. And Pope
Siricius saith in his Epistle to Anysius: Etiam dudum, frater charissime, per Candidianum Episcopum,
qui nos præcessit ad Dominum, hujusmodi literas dederamus, ut nulla licentia esset, sine consensu
tuo in Illyrico Episcopos ordinare præsumere, quæ utrum ad te pervenerint scire non potui.
Multa enim gesta sunt per contentionem ab Episcopis in ordinationibus faciendis, quod tua melius
caritas novit. And a little after: Ad omnem enim hujusmodi audaciam comprimendam vigilare debet
instantia tua, Spiritu in te Sancto fervente: ut vel ipse, si potes, vel quos judicaveris Episcopos
idoneos, cum literis dirigas, dato consensu qui possit, in ejus locum qui defunctus vel depositus
fuerit, Catholicum Episcopum vitâ & moribus probatum, secundum Nicænæ Synodi statuta vel Ecclesiæ
Romanæ, Clericum de Clero meritum ordinare. And Pope Innocent I. saith in his Epistle to Anysius:
Cui [Anysio] etiam anteriores tanti ac tales viri prædecessores mei Episcopi, id est, sanctæ
memoriæ Damasus, Siricius, atque supra memoratus vir ita detulerunt; ut omnia quæ in omnibus
illis partibus gererentur, Sanctitati tuæ, quæ plena justitiæ est, traderent cognoscenda. And
in his Epistle to Rufus the successor of Anysius: Ita longis intervallis disterminatis à me
ecclesiis discat consulendum; ut prudentiæ gravitatique tuæ committendam curam causasque, siquæ
exoriantur, per Achaiæ, Thessaliæ, Epiri veteris, Epiri novæ, & Cretæ, Daciæ mediterraneæ,
Daciæ ripensis, Moesiæ, Dardaniæ, & Prævali ecclesias, Christo Domino annuente, censeam. Verè
enim ejus sacratissimis monitis lectissimæ sinceritatis tuæ providentiæ & virtuti hanc injungimus
sollicitudinem: non primitùs hæc statuentes, sed Præcessores nostros Apostolicos imitati, qui
beatissimis Acholio & Anysio injungi pro meritis ista voluerunt. And Boniface I. in his decretal
Epistle to Rufus and the rest of the Bishops in Illyricum: Nullus, ut frequenter dixi, alicujus
ordinationem citra ejus [Episcopi Thessalonicensis] conscientiam celebrare præsumat: cui, ut
supra dictum est, vice nostrâ cuncta committimus. And Pope Cælestine, in his decretal Epistle
to the Bishops thro'out Illyricum, saith: Vicem nostram per vestram Provinciam noveritis [Rufo]
esse commissam, ita ut ad eum, fratres carissimi, quicquid de causis agitur, referatur. Sine
ejus consilio nullus ordinetur. Nullus usurpet, eodem inconscio, commissam illi Provinciam;
colligere nisi cum ejus voluntate Episcopus non præsumat. And in the cause of Perigenes, in
the title of his Epistle, he thus enumerates the Provinces under this Bishop: Rufo & cæteris
Episcopis per Macedoniam, Achaiam, Thessaliam, Epirum veterem, Epirum novam, Prævalin, & Daciam
constitutis. And Pope Xistus in a decretal Epistle to the same Bishops: Illyricanæ omnes Ecclesiæ,
ut à decessoribus nostris recepimus, & nos quoque fecimus, ad curam nunc pertinent Thessalonicensis
Antistitis, ut suâ sollicitudine, siquæ inter fratres nascantur, ut assolent, actiones distinguat
atque definiat; & ad eum, quicquid à singulis sacerdotibus agitur, referatur. Sit Concilium,
quotiens causæ fuerint, quotiens ille pro necessitatum emergentium ratione decreverit. And
Pope Leo I. in his decretal Epistle to Anastasius Bishop of Thessalonica: Singulis autem Metropolitanis
sicut potestas ista committitur, ut in suis Provinciis jus habeant ordinandi; ita eos Metropolitanos
à te volumus ordinari; maturo tamen & decocto judicio.

Occidental Illyricum comprehended Pannonia prima and secunda, Savia, Dalmatia, Noricum mediterraneum,
and Noricum ripense; and its Metropolis was Sirmium, till Attila destroyed this city. Afterwards
Laureacum became the Metropolis of Noricum and both Pannonias, and Salona the Metropolis of
Dalmatia. Now [5] the Bishops of Laureacum and Salona received the Pallium from the Pope: and
Zosimus, in his decretal Epistle to Hesychius Bishop of Salona, directed him to denounce the
Apostolic decrees as well to the Bishops of his own, as to those of the neighbouring Provinces.
The subjection of these Provinces to the See of Rome seems to have begun in Anemius, who was
ordained Bishop of Sirmium by Ambrose Bishop of Millain, and who in the Council of Aquileia
under Pope Damasus, A.C. 381, declared his sentence in these words: Caput Illyrici non nisi
civitas Sirmiensis: Ego igitur illius civitatis Episcopus sum. Eum qui non confitetur filium
Dei æternum, & coeternum patri, qui est sempiternus, anathema dico. The next year Anemius and
Ambrose, with Valerian Bishop of Aquileia, Acholias Bishop of Thessalonica, and many others,
went to the Council of Rome, which met for overruling the Greek Church by majority of votes,
and exalting the authority of the Apostolic See, as was attempted before in the Council of Sardica.

Aquileia was the second city of the Western Empire, and by some called the second Rome. It
was the Metropolis of Istria, Forum Julium, and Venetia; and its subjection to the See of Rome
is manifest by the decretal Epistle of Leo I. directed to Nicetas Bishop of this city; for
the Pope begins his Epistle thus: Regressus ad nos filius meus Adeodatus Diaconus Sedis nostræ,
dilectionem tuam poposcisse memorat, ut de his à nobis authoritatem Apostolicæ Sedis acciperes,
quæ quidem magnam difficultatem dijudicationis videntur afferre. Then he sets down an answer
to the questions proposed by Nicetas, and concludes thus: Hanc autem Epistolam nostram, quam
ad consultationem tuæ fraternitatis emisimus, ad omnes fratres & comprovinciales tuos Episcopos
facies pervenire, ut in omnium observantia, data profit authoritas. Data 1-2 Kal. Apr. Majorano
Aug. Cos. A.C. 458. Gregory the great A.C. 591, [6] cited Severus Bishop of Aquileia to appear
before him in judgment in a Council at Rome.

The Bishops of Aquileia and Millain created one another, and therefore were of equal authority,
and alike subject to the See of Rome. Pope Pelagius about the year 557, testified this in the
following words: [7] Mos antiquus fuit, saith he, ut quia pro longinquitate vel difficultate
itineris, ab Apostolico illis onerosum fuerit ordinari, ipsi se invicem Mediolanensis & Aquileiensis
ordinare Episcopos debuissent. These words imply that the ordination of these two Bishops belonged
to the See of Rome. When Laurentius Bishop of Millain had excommunicated Magnus, one of his
Presbyters, and was dead, [8] Gregory the great absolved Magnus, and sent the Pallium to the
new elected Bishop Constantius; whom the next year [9] he reprehended of partiality in judging
Fortunatus, and commanded him to send Fortunatus to Rome to be judged there: four years after
[10] he appointed the Bishops of Millain and Ravenna to hear the cause of one Maximus; and
two years after, viz. A.C. 601, when Constantius was dead, and the people of Millain had elected
Deusdedit his successor, and the Lombards had elected another, [11] Gregory wrote to the Notary,
Clergy, and People of Millain, that by the authority of his Letters Deusdedit should be ordained,
and that he whom the Lombards had ordained was an unworthy successor of Ambrose: whence I gather,
that the Church of Millain had continued in this state of subordination to the See of Rome
ever since the days of Ambrose; for Ambrose himself acknowledged the authority of that See.
Ecclesia Romana, [12] saith he, hanc consuetudinem non habet, cujus typum in omnibus sequimur,
& formam. And a little after: In omnibus cupio sequi Ecclesiam Romanam. And in his Commentary
upon 1 Tim. iii. Cum totus mundus Dei sit, tamen domus ejus Ecclesia dicitur, cujus hodie rector
est Damasus. In his Oration on the death of his brother Satyrus, he relates how his brother
coming to a certain city of Sardinia, advocavit Episcopum loci, percontatusque est ex eo utrum
cum Episcopis Catholicis hoc est cum Romana Ecclesia conveniret? And in conjunction with the
Synod of Aquileia A.C. 381, in a synodical Epistle to the Emperor Gratian, he saith: Totius
orbis Romani caput Romanam Ecclesiam, atque illam sacrosanctam Apostolorum fidem, ne turbari
sineret, obsecranda fuit clementia vestra; inde enim in omnes venerandæ communionis jura dimanant.
The Churches therefore of Aquileia and Millain were subject to the See of Rome from the days
of the Emperor Gratian. Auxentius the predecessor of Ambrose was not subject to the see of
Rome, and consequently the subjection of the Church of Millain began in Ambrose. This Diocese
of Millain contained Liguria with Insubria, the Alpes Cottiæ and Rhætia; and was divided from
the Diocese of Aquileia by the river Addua. In the year 844, the Bishop of Millain broke off
from the See of Rome, and continued in this separation about 200 years, as is thus related
by [13] Sigonius: Eodem anno Angilbertus Mediolanensis Archiepiscopus ab Ecclesia Romana parum
comperta de causa descivit, tantumque exemplo in posterum valuit, ut non nisi post ducentos
annos Ecclesia Mediolanensis ad Romanæ obedientiam auctoritatemque redierit.

The Bishop of Ravenna, the Metropolis of Flaminia and Æmilia, was also subject to the Pope:
for Zosimus, A.C. 417, excommunicated some of the Presbyters of that Church, and wrote a commonitory
Epistle about them to the Clergy of that Church as a branch of the Roman Church: In sua, saith
he, hoc est, in Ecclesia nostra Romana. When those of Ravenna, having elected a new Bishop,
gave notice thereof to Pope Sixtus, the Pope set him aside, and [14] ordained Peter Chrysologus
in his room. Chrysologus in his Epistle to Eutyches, extant in the Acts of the Council of Chalcedon,
wrote thus: Nos pro studio pacis & fidei, extra consensum Romanæ civitatis Episcopi, causas
fidei audire non possumus. Pope Leo I. being consulted by Leo Bishop of Ravenna about some
questions, answered him by a decretal Epistle A.C. 451. And Pope Gregory the great, [15] reprehending
John Bishop of Ravenna about the use of the Pallium, tells him of a Precept of one of his Predecessors,
Pope John, commanding that all the Privileges formerly granted to the Bishop and Church of
Ravenna should be kept: to this John returned a submissive answer; and after his death Pope
Gregory ordered a visitation of the Church of Ravenna, confirmed the privileges heretofore
granted them, and sent his Pallium, as of antient custom, to their new Bishop Marinian. Yet
this Church revolted sometimes from the Church of Rome, but returned again to its obedience.

The rest of Italy, with the Islands adjacent, containing the suburbicarian regions, or ten
Provinces under the temporal Vicar of Rome, viz. 1Campania, 2Tuscia and Umbria, 3Picenum suburbicarium,
4Sicily, 5Apulia and Calabria, 6Brutii and Lucania, 7Samnium, 8Sardinia, 9Corsica, and 10Valeria,
constituted the proper Province of the Bishop of Rome. For the Council of Nice in their fifth
Canon ordained that Councils should be held every spring and autumn in every Province; and
according to this Canon, the Bishops of this Province met at Rome every half year. In this
sense Pope Leo I. applied this Canon to Rome, in a decretal Epistle to the Bishops of Sicily,
written Alippio & Ardabure Coss. A.C. 447. Quia saluberrime, saith he, à sanctis patribus constitutum
est, binos in annis singulis Episcoporum debere esse conventus, terni semper ex vobis ad diem
tertium Kalendarum Octobrium Romam æterno concilio sociandi occurrant. Et indissimulanter à
vobis hæc consuetudo servetur, quoniam adjuvante Dei gratiâ, faciliùs poterit provideri, ut
in Ecclesiis Christi nulla scandala, nulli nascantur errores; cum coram Apostolo Petro semper
in communione tractatum fuerit, ut omnia Canonum Decreta apud omnes Domini sacerdotes inviolata
permaneant. The Province of Rome therefore comprehended Sicily, with so much of Italy and the
neighbouring Islands as sent Bishops to the annual Councils of Rome; but extended not into
the Provinces of Ravenna, Aquileia, Millain, Arles, &c. those Provinces having Councils of
their own. The Bishops in every Province of the Roman Empire were convened in Council by the
Metropolitan or Bishop of the head city of the Province, and this Bishop presided in that Council:
but the Bishop of Rome did not only preside in his own Council of the Bishops of the suburbicarian
regions, but also gave Orders to the Metropolitans of all the other Provinces in the Western
Empire, as their universal governor; as may be further perceived by the following instances.

Pope Zosimus A.C. 417, cited Proculus Bishop of Marseilles to appear before a Council at Rome
for illegitimate Ordinations; and condemned him, as he mentions in several of his Epistles.
Pope Boniface I. A.C. 419, upon a complaint of the Clergy of Valentia against Maximus a Bishop,
summoned the Bishops of all Gallia and the seven Provinces to convene in a Council against
him; and saith in his Epistle, that his Predecessors had done the like. Pope Leo I. called
a general Council of all the Provinces of Spain to meet in Gallæcia against the Manichees and
Priscillianists, as he says in his decretal Epistle to Turribius a Spanish Bishop. And in one
of his decretal Epistles to Nicetas Bishop of Aquileia, he commands him to call a Council of
the Bishops of that Province against the Pelagians, which might ratify all the Synodal Decrees
which had been already ratified by the See of Rome against this heresy. And in his decretal
Epistle to Anastasius Bishop of Thessalonica, he ordained that Bishop should hold two Provincial
Councils every year, and refer the harder causes to the See of Rome: and if upon any extraordinary
occasion it should be necessary to call a Council, he should not be troublesom to the Bishops
under him, but content himself with two Bishops out of every Province, and not detain them
above fifteen days. In the same Epistle he describes the form of Church-Government then set
up, to consist in a subordination of all the Churches to the See of Rome: De qua forma, saith
he, Episcoporum quoque est orta distinctio, & magna dispositione provisum est ne omnes sibi
omnia vindicarent, sed essent in singulis Provinciis singuli quorum inter fratres haberetur
prima sententia, & rursus quidam in majoribus urbibus constituti sollicitudinem sumerent ampliorem,
per quos ad unam Petri Sedem universalis Ecclesiæ cura conflueret, & nihil usque à suo capite
dissideret. Qui ergo scit se quibusdam esse præpositum, non moleste ferat aliquem sibi esse
præpositum; sed obedientiam quam exigit etiam ipse dependat; et sicut non vult gravis oneris
sarcinam ferre, ita non audeat aliis importabile pondus imponere. These words sufficiently
shew the monarchical form of government then set up in the Churches of the Western Empire under
the Bishop of Rome, by means of the imperial Decree of Gratian, and the appeals and decretal
Epistles grounded thereupon.

The same Pope Leo, having in a Council at Rome passed sentence upon Hilary Bishop of Arles,
for what he had done by a Provincial Council in Gallia, took occasion from thence to procure
the following Edict from the Western Emperor Valentinian III. for the more absolute establishing
the authority of his See over all the Churches of the Western Empire.

Impp. Theodosius & Valentinianus AA. Aetio Viro illustri, Comiti & Magistro utriusque militiæ
& Patricio.

Certum est & nobis & imperio nostro unicum esse præsidium in supernæ Divinitatis favore, ad
quem promerendum præcipue Christiana fides & veneranda nobis religio suffragatur. Cum igitur
Sedis Apostolicæ Primatum sancti Petri meritum, qui princeps est Episcopalis coronæ & Romanæ
dignitas civitatis, sacræ etiam Synodi firmavit auctoritas: ne quid præter auctoritatem Sedis
istius illicitum præsumptio attemperare nitatur: tunc enim demum Ecclesiarum pax ubique servabitur,
si Rectorem suum agnoscat Universitas. Hæc cum hactenus inviolabiliter suerint custodita, Hilarius
Arelatensis, sicut venerabilis viri Leonis Romani Papæ fideli relatione comperimus, contumaci
ausu illicita quædam præsumenda tentavit, & ideo Transalpinas Ecclesias abominabilis tumultus
invasit, quod recens maximè testatur exemplum. Hilarius enim qui Episcopus Arelatensis vocatur,
Ecclesiæ Romanæ urbis inconsulto Pontifice indebitas sibi ordinationes Episcoporum solâ temeritate
usurpans invasit. Nam alios incompetenter removit; indecenter alios, invitis & repugnantibus
civibus, ordinavit. Qui quidem, quoniam non facile ab his qui non elegerant, recipiebantur,
manum sibi contrahebat armatam, & claustra murorum in hostilem morem vel obsidione cingebat,
vel aggressione reserabat, & ad sedem quietis pacem prædicaturus per bella ducebat: His talibus
contra Imperii majestatem, & contra reverentiam Apostolicæ Sedis admissis, per ordinem religiosi
viri Urbis Papæ cognitione discussis, certa in eum, ex his quos malè ordinaverat, lata sententia
est. Erat quidem ipsa sententia per Gallias etiam sine Imperiali Sanctione valitura: quid enim
Pontificis auctoritate non liceret? Sed nostram quoque præceptionem hæc ratio provocavit. Nec
ulterius vel Hilario, quem adhuc Episcopum nuncupare sola mansueta Præsulis permittit humanitas,
nec cuiquam alteri ecclesiasticis rebus arma miscere, aut præceptis Romani Antistitis liceat
obviare: ausibus enim talibus fides & reverentia nostri violatur Imperii. Nec hoc solum, quod
est maximi criminis, submovemus: verum ne levis saltem inter Ecclesias turba nascatur, vel
in aliquo minui religionis disciplina videatur, hoc perenni sanctione discernimus; nequid tam
Episcopis Gallicanis quam aliarum Provinciarum contra consuetudinem veterem liceat, sine viri
venerabilis Papæ Urbis æternæ auctoritate, tentare. Sed illis omnibusque pro lege sit, quicquid
sanxit vel sanxerit Apostolicæ Sedis auctoritas: ita ut quisquis Episcoporum ad judicium Romani
Antistitis evocatus venire neglexerit, per Moderatorem ejusdem Provinciæ adesse cogatur, per
omnia servatis quæ Divi parentes nostri Romanæ Ecclesiæ detulerunt, Aetî pater carissime Augusti.
Unde illustris & præclara magnificentia tua præsentis Edictalis Legis auctoritate faciet quæ
sunt superius statuta servari, decem librarum auri multa protinus exigenda ab unoquoque Judice
qui passus fuerit præcepta nostra violari. Divinitas te servet per multos annos, parens carissime.
Dat. viii. Id. Jun. Romæ, Valentiniano A. vi. Consule, A.C. 445. By this Edict the Emperor
Valentinian enjoined an absolute obedience to the will of the Bishop of Rome thro'out all the
Churches of his Empire; and declares, that for the Bishops to attempt any thing without the
Pope's authority is contrary to antient custom, and that the Bishops summoned to appear before
his judicature must be carried thither by the Governor of the Province; and he ascribes these
privileges of the See of Rome to the concessions of his dead Ancestors, that is, to the Edict
of Gratian and Valentinian II. as above: by which reckoning this dominion of the Church of
Rome was now of 66 years standing: and if in all this time it had not been sufficiently established,
this new Edict was enough to settle it beyond all question thro'out the Western Empire.

Hence all the Bishops of the Province of Arles in their Letter to Pope Leo, A.C. 450, petitioning
for a restitution of the privileges of their Metropolitan, say: Per beatum Petrum Apostolorum
principem, sacrosancta Ecclesia Romana tenebat supra omnes totius mundi Ecclesias principatum.
And Ceratius, Salonius and Veranus, three Bishops of Gallia, say, in their Epistle to the same
Pope: Magna præterea & ineffabili quadam nos peculiares tui gratulatione succrescimus, quod
illa specialis doctrinæ vestræ pagina ita per omnium Ecclesiarum conventicula celebratur, ut
vere consona omnium sententia declaretur; merito illic principatum Sedis Apostolicæ constitutum,
unde adhuc Apostolici spiritus oracula reserentur. And Leo himself, in [16] his Epistle to
the metropolitan Bishops thro'out Illyricum: Quia per omnes Ecclesias cura nostra distenditur,
exigente hoc à nobis Domino, qui Apostolicæ dignitatis beatissimo Apostolo Petro primatum,
fidei sui remuneratione commisit, universalem Ecclesiam in fundamenti ipsius soliditate constituens.

While this Ecclesiastical Dominion was rising up, the northern barbarous nations invaded the
Western Empire, and founded several kingdoms therein, of different religions from the Church
of Rome. But these kingdoms by degrees embraced the Roman faith, and at the same time submitted
to the Pope's authority. The Franks in Gaul submitted in the end of the fifth Century, the
Goths in Spain in the end of the sixth; and the Lombards in Italy were conquered by Charles
the great A.C. 774. Between the years 775 and 794, the same Charles extended the Pope's authority
over all Germany and Hungary as far as the river Theysse and the Baltic sea; he then set him
above all human judicature, and at the same time assisted him in subduing the City and Duchy
of Rome. By the conversion of the ten kingdoms to the Roman religion, the Pope only enlarged
his spiritual dominion, but did not yet rise up as a horn of the Beast. It was his temporal
dominion which made him one of the horns: and this dominion he acquired in the latter half
of the eighth century, by subduing three of the former horns as above. And now being arrived
at a temporal dominion, and a power above all human judicature, he reigned [17] with a look
more stout than his fellows, and [18] times and laws were henceforward given into his hands,
for a time times and half a time, or three times and an half; that is, for 1260 solar years,
reckoning a time for a Calendar year of 360 days, and a day for a solar year.

Notes to Chap. VIII.

[1] See the Annals of Baronius, Anno 381. Sect. 6.

[2] Populos Galliciæ.

[3] Hormisd. Epist. 24. 26.

[4] The words, sine auctoritate, seem wanting.

[5] Vide Caroli a S. Paulo Geographiam sacram, p. 72, 73.

[6] Greg. M. lib. 1. Indic. 9. Epist. 16.

[7] Apud Gratianum de Mediolanensi & Aquileiensi Episcopis.

[8] Greg. M. lib. 3. Epist. 26. & lib. 4. Epist. 1.

[9] Greg. lib. 5. Epist. 4.

[10] Greg. lib. 9. Epist. 10 & 67.

[11] Greg. lib. 11. Epist. 3, 4.

[12] Ambros l. 3. de sacramentis, c. 1.

[13] Sigonius de Regno Italiæ, lib. 5.

[14] See Baronius, Anno 433. Sect. 24.

[15] Greg. M. lib. 3. Epist. 56, 57. & lib. 5. Epist. 25, 26, 56.

[16] Epist. 25. apud Holstenium.

[17] Dan. vii. 20.

[18] Ver. 25.

[19] Ver. 26.

[20] Ver. 27.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAP. IX.

Of the kingdoms represented in Daniel by the Ram and He-Goat.

The second and third Empires, represented by the Bear and Leopard, are again represented by
the Ram and He-Goat; but with this difference, that the Ram represents the kingdoms of the
Medes and Persians from the beginning of the four Empires, and the Goat represents the kingdom
of the Greeks to the end of them. The kingdom of Persia rose up, when Cyrus having newly conquered
Babylon, revolted from Darius King of the Medes, and beat him at Pasargadæ, and set up the
Persians above the Medes. This was the horn which came up last. And the horn which came up
first was the kingdom of the Medes, from the time that Cyaxares and Nebuchadnezzar overthrew
Nineveh, and shared the Empire of the Assyrians between them. The Empires of Media and Babylon
were contemporary, and rose up together by the fall of the Assyrian Empire; and the Prophecy
of the four Beasts begins with one of them, and that of the Ram and He-Goat with the other.
As the Ram represents the kingdom of Media and Persia from the beginning of the four Empires;
so the He-Goat represents the Empire of the Greeks to the end of those Monarchies. In the reign
of his great horn, and of the four horns which succeeded it, he represents this Empire during
the reign of the Leopard: and in the reign of his little horn, which stood up in the latter
time of the kingdom of the four, and after their fall became mighty but not by his own power,
he represents it during the reign of the fourth Beast. [2] Now that [horn] being broken off,
whereas four [horns] stood up for it, four kingdoms shall stand up out of the nation [of the
Greeks], but not in his [the first horn's] power. The four horns are therefore four kingdoms;
and by consequence, the first great horn which they succeeded is the first great kingdom of
the Greeks, that which was founded by Alexander the great, An. Nabonass. 414, and lasted till
the death of his son Hercules, An. Nabonass. 441. And the four are those of Cassander, Lysimachus,
Antigonus, and Ptolemy, as above. This King was the last horn of the Goat, the little horn
which came up out of one of the four horns, and waxed exceeding great. The latter time of their
kingdom was when the Romans began to conquer them, that is, when they conquered Perseus King
of Macedonia, the fundamental kingdom of the Greeks. And at that time the transgressors came
to the full: for then the High-priesthood was exposed to sale, the Vessels of the Temple were
sold to pay for the purchase; and the High-priest, with some of the Jews, procured a licence
from Antiochus Epiphanes to do after the ordinances of the heathen, and set up a school at
Jerusalem for teaching those ordinances. Then Antiochus took Jerusalem with an armed force,
slew 4000 Jews, took as many prisoners and sold them, spoiled the Temple, interdicted the worship,
commanded the Law of Moses to be burnt, and set up the worship of the heathen Gods in all Judea.
In the very same year, An. Nabonass. 580, the Romans conquered Macedonia, the chief of the
four horns. Hitherto the Goat was mighty by its own power, but henceforward began to be under
the Romans. Daniel distinguishes the times, by describing very particularly the actions of
the Kings of the north and south, those two of the four horns which bordered upon Judea, until
the Romans conquered Macedonia; and thenceforward only touching upon the main revolutions which
happened within the compass of the nations represented by the Goat. In this latter period of
time the little horn was to stand up and grow mighty, but not by his own power.

The three first of Daniel's Beasts had their dominions taken away, each of them at the rise
of the next Beast; but their lives were prolonged, and they are all of them still alive. The
third Beast, or Leopard, reigned in his four heads, till the rise of the fourth Beast, or Empire
of the Latins; and his life was prolonged under their power. This Leopard reigning in his four
heads, signifies the same thing with the He-Goat reigning in his four horns: and therefore
the He-Goat reigned in his four horns till the rise of Daniel's fourth Beast, or Empire of
the Latins: then its dominion was taken away by the Latins, but its life was prolonged under
their power. The Latins are not comprehended among the nations represented by the He-Goat in
this Prophecy: their power over the Greeks is only named in it, to distinguish the times in
which the He-Goat was mighty by his own power, from the times in which he was mighty but not
by his own power. He was mighty by his own power till his dominion was taken away by the Latins;
after that, his life was prolonged under their dominion, and this prolonging of his life was
in the days of his last horn: for in the days of this horn the Goat became mighty, but not
by his own power.

Now because this horn was a horn of the Goat, we are to look for it among the nations which
composed the body of the Goat. Among those nations he was to rise up and grow mighty: he grew
mighty [4] towards the south, and towards the east, and towards the pleasant land; and therefore
he was to rise up in the north-west parts of those nations, and extend his dominion towards
Egypt, Syria and Judea. In the latter time of the kingdom of the four horns, it was to rise
up out of one of them and subdue the rest, but not by its own power. It was to be assisted
by a foreign power, a power superior to itself, the power which took away the dominion of the
third Beast, the power of the fourth Beast. And such a little horn was the kingdom of Macedonia,
from the time that it became subject to the Romans. This kingdom, by the victory of the Romans
over Persius King of Macedonia, Anno Nabonass. 580, ceased to be one of the four horns of the
Goat, and became a dominion of a new sort: not a horn of the fourth Beast, for Macedonia belonged
to the body of the third; but a horn of the third Beast of a new sort, a horn of the Goat which
grew mighty but not by his own power, a horn which rose up and grew potent under a foreign
power, the power of the Romans.

The Romans, by the legacy of Attalus the last King of Pergamus, An. Nabonass. 615, inherited
that kingdom, including all Asia Minor on this side mount Taurus. An. Nabonass. 684 and 685
they conquered Armenia, Syria and Judea; An. Nabonass. 718, they subdued Egypt. And by these
conquests the little horn [5] waxed exceeding great towards the south, and towards the east,
and towards the pleasant land. And it waxed great even to the host of heaven; and cast down
some of the host and of the stars to the ground, and stamped upon them, that is, upon the people
and great men of the Jews. [6] Yea, he magnified himself even to the Prince of the Host, the
Messiah, the Prince of the Jews, whom he put to death, An. Nabonass. 780. And by him the daily
sacrifice was taken away, and the place of his sanctuary was cast down, viz. in the wars which
the armies of the Eastern nations under the conduct of the Romans made against Judea, when
Nero and Vespasian were Emperors, An. Nabonass. 816, 817, 818. [7] And an host was given him
against the daily sacrifice by reason of transgression, and it cast down the truth to the ground,
and it practised and prospered. This transgression is in the next words called the transgression
of desolation; and in Dan. xi. 31. the abomination which maketh desolate; and in Matth. xxiv.
It may relate chiefly to the worship of Jupiter Olympius in his Temple built by the Emperor
Hadrian, in the place of the Temple of the Jews, and to the revolt of the Jews under Barchochab
occasioned thereby, and to the desolation of Judea which followed thereupon; all the Jews,
being thenceforward banished Judea upon pain of death. Daniel's days are years; and these years
may perhaps be reckoned either from the destruction of the Temple by the Romans in the reign
of Vespasian, or from the pollution of the Sanctuary by the worship of Jupiter Olympius, or
from the desolation of Judea made in the end of the Jewish war by the banishment of all the
Jews out of their own country, or from some other period which time will discover. Henceforward
the last horn of the Goat continued mighty under the Romans, till the reign of Constantine
the great and his sons: and then by the division of the Roman Empire between the Greek and
Latin Emperors, it separated from the Latins, and became the Greek Empire alone, but yet under
the dominion of a Roman family; and at present it is mighty under the dominion of the Turks.

This last horn is by some taken for Antiochus Epiphanes, but not very judiciously. A horn of
a Beast is never taken for a single person: it always signifies a new kingdom, and the kingdom
of Antiochus was an old one. Antiochus reigned over one of the four horns, and the little horn
was a fifth under its proper kings. This horn was at first a little one, and waxed exceeding
great, but so did not Antiochus. It is described great above all the former horns, and so was
not Antiochus. His kingdom on the contrary was weak, and tributary to the Romans, and he did
not enlarge it. The horn was a King of fierce countenance, and destroyed wonderfully, and prospered
and practised; that is, he prospered in his practises against the holy people: but Antiochus
was frighted out of Egypt by a mere message of the Romans, and afterwards routed and baffled
by the Jews. The horn was mighty by another's power, Antiochus acted by his own. The horn stood
up against the Prince of the Host of heaven, the Prince of Princes; and this is the character
not of Antiochus but of Antichrist. The horn cast down the Sanctuary to the ground, and so
did not Antiochus; he left it standing. The Sanctuary and Host were trampled under foot 2300
days; and in Daniel's Prophecies days are put for years: but the profanation of the Temple
in the reign of Antiochus did not last so many natural days. These were to last till the time
of the end, till the last end of the indignation against the Jews; and this indignation is
not yet at an end. They were to last till the Sanctuary which had been cast down should be
cleansed, and the Sanctuary is not yet cleansed.

This Prophecy of the Ram and He-Goat is repeated in the last Prophecy of Daniel. There the
Angel tells Daniel, that [9] he stood up to strengthen Darius the Mede, and that there should
stand up yet three kings in Persia, [Cyrus, Cambyses, and Darius Hystaspis] and the fourth
[Xerxes] should be far richer than they all; and by his wealth thro' his riches he should stir
up all against the realm of Grecia. This relates to the Ram, whose two horns were the kingdoms
of Media and Persia. Then he goes on to describe the horns of the Goat by the [10] standing
up of a mighty king, which should rule with great dominion, and do according to his will; and
by the breaking of his kingdom into four smaller kingdoms, and not descending to his own posterity.
Then he describes the actions of two of those kingdoms which bordered on Judea, viz. Egypt
and Syria, calling them the Kings of the South and North, that is, in respect of Judea; and
he carries on the description till the latter end of the kingdoms of the four, and till the
reign of Antiochus Epiphanes, when transgressors were come to the full. In the eighth year
of Antiochus, the year in which he profaned the Temple and set up the heathen Gods in all Judea,
and the Romans conquered the kingdom of Macedon; the prophetic Angel leaves off describing
the affairs of the kings of the South and North, and begins to describe those of the Greeks
under the dominion of the Romans, in these words: [11] And after him Arms [the Romans] shall
stand up, and they shall pollute the sanctuary of strength. As [Hebrew: MMLK] signifies after
the king, Dan. xi. 8; so here [Hebrew: MMNW] may signify after him: and so [Hebrew: MN-H'CHT]
may signify after one of them, Dan. viii. 9. Arms are every where in these Prophecies of Daniel
put for the military power of a kingdom, and they stand up when they conquer and grow powerful.
The Romans conquered Illyricum, Epirus and Macedonia, in the year of Nabonassar 580; and thirty
five years after, by the last will and testament of Attalus the last King of Pergamus, they
inherited that rich and flourishing kingdom, that is, all Asia on this side mount Taurus: and
sixty nine years after, they conquered the kingdom of Syria, and reduced it into a Province:
and thirty four years after they did the like to Egypt. By all these steps the Roman arms stood
up over the Greeks. And after 95 years more, by making war upon the Jews, they polluted the
sanctuary of strength, and took away the daily sacrifice, and, in its room soon after, placed
the abomination which made the Land desolate: for this abomination was placed after the days
of Christ, Matth. xxiv. 15. In the 16th year of the Emperor Hadrian, A. C. 132, they placed
this abomination by building a Temple to Jupiter Capitolinus, where the Temple of God in Jerusalem
had stood. Thereupon the Jews under the conduct of Barchochab rose up in arms against the Romans,
and in that war had 50 cities demolished, 985 of their best towns destroyed, and 580000 men
slain by the sword: and in the end of the war, A.C. 136, they were all banished Judea upon
pain or death; and that time the land hath remained desolate of its old inhabitants. And some
of them of understanding there shall fall to try them, and to purge them from the dissemblers;
and to make them white even to the time of the end. And a little after, the time of the end
is said to be a time, times, and half a time: which is the duration of the reign of the last
horn of Daniel's fourth Beast, and of the Woman and her Beast in the Apocalyps.

Notes to Chap. IX.

[1] Chap. viii. 3.

[2] Ver. 22.

[3] Ver. 23.

[4] Chap. viii. 9.

[5] Chap. viii. 9, 10.

[6] Ver. 11.

[7] Ver. 12.

[8] Ver. 13, 14.

[9] Dan. xi. 1, 2.

[10] Ver. 3.

[11] Dan xi. 31.

[12] Chap. xi. 33, &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAP. X.

Of the Prophecy of the Seventy Weeks.

The Vision of the Image composed of four Metals was given first to Nebuchadnezzar, and then
to Daniel in a dream: and Daniel began then to be celebrated for revealing of secrets, Ezek.
xxviii. 3. The Vision of the four Beasts, and of the Son of man coming in the clouds of heaven,
was also given to Daniel in a dream. That of the Ram and the He-Goat appeared to him in the
day time, when he was by the bank of the river Ulay; and was explained to him by the prophetic
Angel Gabriel. It concerns the Prince of the host, and the Prince of Princes: and now in the
first year of Darius the Mede over Babylon, the same prophetic Angel appears to Daniel again,
and explains to him what is meant by the Son of man, by the Prince of the host, and the Prince
of Princes. The Prophecy of the Son of man coming in the clouds of heaven relates to the second
coming of Christ; that of the Prince of the host relates to his first coming: and this Prophecy
of the Messiah, in explaining them, relates to both comings, and assigns the times thereof.

This Prophecy, like all the rest of Daniel's, consists of two parts, an introductory Prophecy
and an explanation thereof; the whole I thus translate and interpret.

[1] 'Seventy weeks are [2] cut out upon thy people, and upon thy holy city, to finish transgression,
and [3] to make an end of sins, to expiate iniquity, and to bring in everlasting righteousness,
to consummate the Vision and [4] the Prophet, and to anoint the most Holy.

'Know also and understand, that from the going forth of the commandment to cause to return
and to build Jerusalem, unto [5] the Anointed the Prince, shall be seven weeks. For by joining
the accomplishment of the vision with the expiation of sins, the 490 years are ended with the
death of Christ. Now the dispersed Jews became a people and city when they first returned into
a polity or body politick; and this was in the seventh year of Artaxerxes Longimanus, when
Ezra returned with a body of Jews from captivity, and revived the Jewish worship; and by the
King's commission created Magistrates in all the land, to judge and govern the people according
to the laws of God and the King, Ezra vii. 25. There were but two returns from captivity, Zerubbabel's
and Ezra's; in Zerubbabel's they had only commission to build the Temple, in Ezra's they first
became a polity or city by a government of their own. Now the years of this Artaxerxes began
about two or three months after the summer solstice, and his seventh year fell in with the
third year of the eightieth Olympiad; and the latter part thereof, wherein Ezra went up to
Jerusalem, was in the year of the Julian Period 4257. Count the time from thence to the death
of Christ, and you will find it just 490 years. If you count in Judaic years commencing in
autumn, and date the reckoning from the first autumn after Ezra's coming to Jerusalem, when
he put the King's decree in execution; the death of Christ will fall on the year of the Julian
Period 4747, Anno Domini 34; and the weeks will be Judaic weeks, ending with sabbatical years;
and this I take to be the truth: but if you had rather place the death of Christ in the year
before, as is commonly done, you may take the year of Ezra's journey into the reckoning.

Know also and understand, that from the going forth of the commandment to cause to return and
to build Jerusalem, unto the Anointed the Prince, shall be seven weeks. The former part of
the Prophecy related to the first coming of Christ, being dated to his coming as a Prophet;
this being dated to his coming to be Prince or King, seems to relate to his second coming.
There, the Prophet was consummate, and the most holy anointed: here, he that was anointed comes
to be Prince and to reign. For Daniel's Prophecies reach to the end of the world; and there
is scarce a Prophecy in the Old Testament concerning Christ, which doth not in something or
other relate to his second coming. If divers of the antients, as [8] Irenæus, [9] Julius Africanus,
Hippolytus the martyr, and Apollinaris Bishop of Laodicea, applied the half week to the times
of Antichrist; why may not we, by the same liberty of interpretation, apply the seven weeks
to the time when Antichrist shall be destroyed by the brightness of Christ's coming?

The Israelites in the days of the antient Prophets, when the ten Tribes were led into captivity,
expected a double return; and that at the first the Jews should build a new Temple inferior
to Solomon's, until the time of that age should be fulfilled; and afterwards they should return
from all places of their captivity, and build Jerusalem and the Temple gloriously, Tobit xiv.
4, 5, 6: and to express the glory and excellence of this city, it is figuratively said to be
built of precious stones, Tobit xiii. 16, 17, 18. Isa. liv. 11, 12. Rev. xi. and called the
New Jerusalem, the Heavenly Jerusalem, the Holy City, the Lamb's Wife, the City of the Great
King, the City into which the Kings of the earth do bring their glory and honour. Now while
such a return from captivity was the expectation of Israel, even before the times of Daniel,
I know not why Daniel should omit it in his Prophecy. This part of the Prophecy being therefore
not yet fulfilled, I shall not attempt a particular interpretation of it, but content myself
with observing, that as the seventy and the sixty two weeks were Jewish weeks, ending with
sabbatical years; so the seven weeks are the compass of a Jubilee, and begin and end with actions
proper for a Jubilee, and of the highest nature for which a Jubilee can be kept: and that since
the commandment to return and to build Jerusalem, precedes the Messiah the Prince 49 years;
it may perhaps come forth not from the Jews themselves, but from some other kingdom friendly
to them, and precede their return from captivity, and give occasion to it; and lastly, that
this rebuilding of Jerusalem and the waste places of Judah is predicted in Micah vii. 11. Amos
ix. 11, 14. Ezek. xxxvi. 33, 35, 36, 38. Isa. liv. 3, 11, 12. lv. 12. lxi. 4. lxv. 18, 21,22.
and Tobit xiv. 5. and that the return from captivity and coming of the Messiah and his kingdom
are described in Daniel vii. Rev. xix. Acts i. Mat. xxiv. Joel iii. Ezek. xxxvi. xxxvii. Isa.
lx. lxii. lxiii. lxv. and lxvi. and many other places of scripture. The manner I know not.
Let time be the Interpreter. Now Nehemiah came to Jerusalem in the 20th year of this same Artaxerxes,
while Ezra still continued there, Nehem. xii. 36, and found the city lying waste, and the houses
and wall unbuilt, Nehem. ii. 17. vii. 4, and finished the wall the 25th day of the month Elul,
Nehem. vi. 15, in the 28th year of the King, that is, in September in the year of the Julian
Period 4278. Count now from this year threescore and two weeks of years, that is 434 years,
and the reckoning will end in September in the year of the Julian Period 4712 which is the
year in which Christ was born, according to Clemens Alexandrinus, Irenæus, Eusebius, Epiphanius,
Jerome, Orosius, Cassiodorus, and other antients; and this was the general opinion, till Dionysius
Exiguus invented the vulgar account, in which Christ's birth is placed two years later. If
with some you reckon that Christ was born three or four years before the vulgar account, yet
his birth will fall in the latter part of the last week, which is enough. How after these weeks
Christ was cut off and the city and sanctuary destroyed by the Romans, is well known.

Yet shall he confirm the covenant with many for one week. He kept it, notwithstanding his death,
till the rejection of the Jews, and calling of Cornelius and the Gentiles in the seventh year
after his passion.

And in half a week he shall cause the sacrifice and oblation to cease; that is, by the war
of the Romans upon the Jews: which war, after some commotions, began in the 13th year of Nero,
A.D. 67, in the spring, when Vespasian with an army invaded them; and ended in the second year
of Vespasian, A.D. 70, in autumn, Sept. 7, when Titus took the city, having burnt the Temple
27 days before: so that it lasted three years and an half.

And upon a wing of abominations he shall cause desolation, even until the consummation, and
that which is determined be poured upon the desolate. The Prophets, in representing kingdoms
by Beasts and Birds, put their wings stretcht out over any country for their armies sent out
to invade and rule over that country. Hence a wing of abominations is an army of false Gods:
for an abomination is often put in scripture for a false God; as where Chemosh is called [10]
the abomination of Moab, and Molech the abomination of Ammon. The meaning therefore is, that
the people of a Prince to come shall destroy the sanctuary, and abolish the daily worship of
the true God, and overspread the land with an army of false gods; and by setting up their dominion
and worship, cause desolation to the Jews, until the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled. For
Christ tells us, that the abomination of desolation spoken of by Daniel was to be set up in
the times of the Roman Empire, Matth. xxiv. 15.

Thus have we in this short Prophecy, a prediction of all the main periods relating to the coming
of the Messiah; the time of his birth, that of his death, that of the rejection of the Jews,
the duration of the Jewish war whereby he caused the city and sanctuary to be destroyed, and
the time of his second coming: and so the interpretation here given is more full and complete
and adequate to the design, than if we should restrain it to his first coming only, as Interpreters
usually do. We avoid also the doing violence to the language of Daniel, by taking the seven
weeks and sixty two weeks for one number. Had that been Daniel's meaning, he would have said
sixty and nine weeks, and not seven weeks and sixty two weeks, a way of numbring used by no
nation. In our way the years are Jewish Luni-solar years, [11] as they ought to be; and the
seventy weeks of years are Jewish weeks ending with sabbatical years, which is very remarkable.
For they end either with the year of the birth of Christ, two years before the vulgar account,
or with the year of his death, or with the seventh year after it: all which are sabbatical
years. Others either count by Lunar years, or by weeks not Judaic: and, which is worst, they
ground their interpretations on erroneous Chronology, excepting the opinion of Funccius about
the seventy weeks, which is the same with ours. For they place Ezra and Nehemiah in the reign
of Artaxerxes Mnemon, and the building of the Temple in the reign of Darius Nothus, and date
the weeks of Daniel from those two reigns.

The grounds of the Chronology here followed, I will now set down as briefly as I can.

The Peloponnesian war began in spring An. 1 Olymp. 87, as Diodorus, Eusebius, and all other
authors agree. It began two months before Pythodorus ceased to be Archon, Thucyd. l. 2. that
is, in April, two months before the end of the Olympic year. Now the years of this war are
most certainly determined by the 50 years distance of its first year from the transit of Xerxes
inclusively, Thucyd. l. 2. or 48 years exclusively, Eratosth. apud Clem. Alex. by the 69 years
distance of its end, or 27th year, from the beginning of Alexander's reign in Greece; by the
acting of the Olympic games in its 4th and 12th years, Thucyd. l. 5; and by three eclipses
of the sun, and one of the moon, mentioned by Thucydides and Xenophon. Now Thucydides, an unquestionable
witness, tells us, that the news of the death of Artaxerxes Longimanus was brought to Ephesus,
and from thence by some Athenians to Athens, in the 7th year of this Peloponnesian war, when
the winter half year was running; and therefore he died An. 4 Olymp. 88, in the end of An.
J.P. 4289, suppose a month or two before midwinter; for so long the news would be in coming.
Now Artaxerxes Longimanus reigned 40 years, by the consent of Diodorus, Eusebius, Jerome, Sulpitius;
or 41, according to Ptol. in can. Clem. Alexand. l. 1. Strom. Chron. Alexandr. Abulpharagius,
Nicephorus, including therein the reign of his successors Xerxes and Sogdian, as Abulpharagius
informs us. After Artaxerxes reigned his son Xerxes two months, and Sogdian seven months; but
their reign is not reckoned apart in summing up the years of the Kings, but is included in
the 40 or 41 years reign of Artaxerxes: omit these nine months, and the precise reign of Artaxerxes
will be thirty nine years and three months. And therefore since his reign ended in the beginning
of winter An. J.P. 4289, it began between midsummer and autumn, An. J.P. 4250.

The same thing I gather also thus. Cambyses began his reign in spring An. J.P. 4185, and reigned
eight years, including the five months of Smerdes; and then Darius Hystaspis began in spring
An. J.P. 4193, and reigned thirty six years, by the unanimous consent of all Chronologers.
The reigns of these two Kings are determined by three eclipses of the moon observed at Babylon,
and recorded by Ptolemy; so that it cannot be disputed. One was in the seventh year of Cambyses,
An. J.P. 4191, Jul. 16, at 11 at night; another in the 20th year of Darius, An. J.P. 4212,
Nov. 19, at 11h. 45' at night; a third in the 31st year of Darius, An. J.P. 4223, Apr. 25,
at 11h. 30 at night. By these eclipses, and the Prophecies of Haggai and Zechary compared together,
it is manifest that his years began after the 24th day of the 11th Jewish month, and before
the 25th day of April, and by consequence about March. Xerxes therefore began in spring An.
J.P. 4229: for Darius died in the fifth year after the battle at Marathon, as Herodotus, lib.
7, and Plutarch mention; and that battle was in October An. J.P. 4224, ten years before the
battle at Salamis. Xerxes therefore began within less than a year after October An. J.P. 4228,
suppose in the spring following: for he spent his first five years, and something more, in
preparations for his expedition against the Greeks; and this expedition was in the time of
the Olympic games, An. 1 Olymp. 75, Calliade Athenis Archonte, 28 years after the Regifuge,
and Consulship of the first Consul Junius Brutus, Anno Urbis conditæ 273, Fabio & Furio Coss.
The passage of Xerxes's army over the Hellespont began in the end of the fourth year of the
74th Olympiad, that is, in June An. J.P. 4234, and took up one month: and in autumn, three
months after, on the full moon, the 16th day of the month Munychion, was the battle at Salamis,
and a little after that an eclipse of the sun, which by the calculation fell on Octob. 2. His
sixth year therefore began a little before June, suppose in spring An. J.P. 4234, and his first
year consequently in spring An. J.P. 4229, as above. Now he reigned almost twenty one years,
by the consent of all writers. Add the 7 months of Artabanus, and the sum will be 21 years
and about four or five months, which end between midsummer and autumn An. J.P. 4250. At this
time therefore began the reign of his successor Artaxerxes, as was to be proved.

The same thing is also confirmed by Julius Africanus, who informs us out of former writers,
that the 20th year of this Artaxerxes was the 115th year from the beginning of the reign of
Cyrus in Persia, and fell in with An. 4 Olymp. 83. It began therefore with the Olympic year,
soon after the summer Solstice, An. J.P. 4269. Subduct nineteen years, and his first year will
begin at the same time of the year An. J.P. 4250, as above.

His 7th year therefore began after midsummer An. J.P. 4256; and the Journey of Ezra to Jerusalem
in the spring following fell on the beginning of An. J.P. 4257, as above.

Notes to Chap. X.

[1] Chap. ix. 24, 25, 26, 27.

[2] Cut upon. A phrase in Hebrew, taken from the practise of numbring by cutting notches.

[3] Heb. to seal, i.e. to finish or consummate: a metaphor taken from sealing what is finished.
So the Jews compute, ad obsignatum Misna, ad obsignatum Talmud, that is, ad absolutum.

[4] Heb. the Prophet, not the Prophecy.

[5] Heb. the Messiah, that is, in Greek, the Christ; in English, the Anointed. I use the English
word, that the relation of this clause to the former may appear.

[6] Jerusalem.

[7] See Isa. xxiii. 13.

[8] Iren. l. 5. Hær. c. 25.

[9] Apud Hieron. in h. l.

[10] 1 Kings xi. 7.

[11] The antient solar years of the eastern nations consisted of 12 months, and every month
of 30 days: and hence came the division of a circle into 360 degrees. This year seems to be
used by Moses in his history of the Flood, and by John in the Apocalypse, where a time, times
and half a time, 42 months and 1260 days, are put equipollent. But in reckoning by many of
these years together, an account is to be kept of the odd days which were added to the end
of these years. For the Egyptians added five days to the end of this year; and so did the Chaldeans
long before the times of Daniel, as appears by the Æra, of Nabonassar: and the Persian Magi
used the same year of 365 days, till the Empire of the Arabians. The antient Greeks also used
the same solar year of 12 equal months, or 360 days; but every other year added an intercalary
month, consisting of 10 and 11 days alternately.

The year of the Jews, even from their coming out of Egypt, was Luni-solar. It was solar, for
the harvest always followed the Passover, and the fruits of the land were always gathered before
the feast of Tabernacles, Levit. xxiii. But the months were lunar, for the people were commanded
by Moses in the beginning of every month to blow with trumpets, and offer burnt offerings with
their drink offerings, Num. x. 10. xxviii. 11, 14. and this solemnity was kept on the new moons,
Psal. lxxxi. 3,4,5. 1 Chron. xxiii. 31. These months were called by Moses the first, second,
third, fourth month, &c. and the first month was also called Abib, the second Zif, the seventh
Ethanim, the eighth Bull, Exod. xiii. 4. 1 Kings vi. 37, 38. viii. 2. But in the Babylonian
captivity the Jews used the names of the Chaldean months, and by those names understood the
months of their own year; so that the Jewish months then lost their old names, and are now
called by those of the Chaldeans.

The Jews began their civil year from the autumnal Equinox, and their sacred year from the vernal:
and the first day of the first month was on the visible new moon, which was nearest the Equinox.

Whether Daniel used the Chaldaick or Jewish year, is not very material; the difference being
but six hours in a year, and 4 months in 480 years. But I take his months to be Jewish: first,
because Daniel was a Jew, and the Jews even by the names of the Chaldean months understood
the months of their own year: secondly, because this Prophecy is grounded on Jeremiah's concerning
the 70 years captivity, and therefore must be understood of the same sort of years with the
seventy; and those are Jewish, since that Prophecy was given in Judea before the captivity:
and lastly, because Daniel reckons by weeks of years, which is a way of reckoning peculiar
to the Jewish years. For as their days ran by sevens, and the last day of every seven was a
sabbath; so their years ran by sevens, and the last year of every seven was a sabbatical year,
and seven such weeks of years made a Jubilee.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAP. XI.

Of the Times of the Birth and Passion of Christ.

The times of the Birth and Passion of Christ, with such like niceties, being not material to
religion, were little regarded by the Christians of the first age. They who began first to
celebrate them, placed them in the cardinal periods of the year; as the annunciation of the
Virgin Mary, on the 25th of March, which when Julius Cæsar corrected the Calendar was the vernal
Equinox; the feast of John Baptist on the 24th of June, which was the summer Solstice; the
feast of St. Michael on Sept. 29, which was the autumnal Equinox; and the birth of Christ on
the winter Solstice, Decemb. 25, with the feasts of St. Stephen, St. John and the Innocents,
as near it as they could place them. And because the Solstice in time removed from the 25th
of December to the 24th, the 23d, the 22d, and so on backwards, hence some in the following
centuries placed the birth of Christ on Decemb. 23, and at length on Decemb. 20: and for the
same reason they seem to have set the feast of St. Thomas on Decemb. 21, and that of St. Matthew
on Sept. 21. So also at the entrance of the Sun into all the signs in the Julian Calendar,
they placed the days of other Saints; as the conversion of Paul on Jan. 25, when the Sun entred
[Aquarius]; St. Matthias on Feb. 25, when he entred [Pisces]; St. Mark on Apr. 25, when he
entred [Taurus]; Corpus Christi on May 26, when he entred [Gemini]; St. James on July 25, when
he entred [Cancer]; St. Bartholomew on Aug. 24, when he entred [Virgo]; Simon and Jude on Octob.
28, when he entred [Scorpio]: and if there were any other remarkable days in the Julian Calendar,
they placed the Saints upon them, as St. Barnabas on June 11, where Ovid seems to place the
feast of Vesta and Fortuna, and the goddess Matuta; and St. Philip and James on the first of
May, a day dedicated both to the Bona Dea, or Magna Mater, and to the goddess Flora, and still
celebrated with her rites. All which shews that these days were fixed in the first Christian
Calendars by Mathematicians at pleasure, without any ground in tradition; and that the Christians
afterwards took up with what they found in the Calendars.

Neither was there any certain tradition about the years of Christ. For the Christians who first
began to enquire into these things, as Clemens Alexandrinus, Origen, Tertullian, Julius Africanus,
Lactantius, Jerome, St. Austin, Sulpicius Severus, Prosper, and as many as place the death
of Christ in the 15th or 16th year of Tiberius, make Christ to have preached but one year,
or at most but two. At length Eusebius discovered four successive Passovers in the Gospel of
John, and thereupon set on foot an opinion that he preacht three years and an half; and so
died in the 19th year of Tiberius. Others afterwards, finding the opinion that he died in the
Equinox Mar. 25, more consonant to the times of the Jewish Passover, in the 17th and 20th years,
have placed his death in one of those two years. Neither is there any greater certainty in
the opinions about the time of his birth. The first Christians placed his baptism near the
beginning of the 15th year of Tiberius; and thence reckoning thirty years backwards, placed
his birth in the 43d Julian year, the 42d of Augustus and 28th of the Actiac victory. This
was the opinion which obtained in the first ages, till Dionysius Exiguus, placing the baptism
of Christ in the 16th year of Tiberius, and misinterpreting the text of Luke, iii. 23. as if
Jesus was only beginning to be 30 years old when he was baptized, invented the vulgar account,
in which his birth is placed two years later than before. As therefore relating to these things
there is no tradition worth considering; let us lay aside all and examine what prejudices can
be gathered from records of good account.

The fifteenth year of Tiberius began Aug. 28, An. J.P. 4727. So soon as the winter was over,
and the weather became warm enough, we may reckon that John began to baptize; and that before
next winter his fame went abroad, and all the people came to his baptism, and Jesus among the
rest. Whence the first Passover after his baptism mentioned John ii. 13. was in the 16th year
of Tiberius. After this feast Jesus came into the land of Judea, and staid there baptizing,
whilst John was baptizing in Ænon, John iii. 22, 23. But when he heard that John was cast into
prison, he departed into Galilee, Mat. iii. 12. being afraid, because the Pharisees had heard
that he baptized more disciples than John, John iv. 1. and in his journey he passed thro' Samaria
four months before the harvest, John iv. 35. that is, about the time of the winter Solstice.
For their harvest was between Easter and Whitsunday, and began about a month after the vernal
Equinox. John therefore was imprisoned about November, in the 17th year of Tiberius; and Christ
thereupon went from Judea to Cana of Galilee in December, and was received there of the Galileans,
who had seen all he did at Jerusalem at the Passover: and when a Nobleman of Capernaum heard
he was returned into Galilee, and went to him and desired him to come and cure his son, he
went not thither yet, but only said, Go thy way, thy son liveth; and the Nobleman returned
and found it so, and believed, he and his house, John iv. This is the beginning of his miracles
in Galilee; and thus far John is full and distinct in relating the actions of his first year,
omitted by the other Evangelists. The rest of his history is from this time related more fully
by the other Evangelists than by John; for what they relate he omits. And by this time we may
reckon the second Passover was either past or at hand.

All this time Matthew passeth over in few words, and here begins to relate the preaching and
miracles of Christ. 12. 18, 25. All this was done before the sermon in the mount: and therefore
we may certainly reckon that the second Passover was past before the preaching of that sermon.
The multitudes that followed him from Jerusalem and Judea, shew that he had lately been there
at the feast. The sermon in the mount was made when great multitudes came to him from all places,
and followed him in the open fields; which is an argument of the summer-season: and in this
sermon he pointed at the lilies of the field then in the flower before the eyes of his auditors.
Consider, saith he, the lilies of the field, how they grow; they toil not, neither do they
spin; and yet Solomon in all his glory was not arayed like one of these. So therefore the grass
of the field was now in the flower, and by consequence the month of March with the Passover
was past.

Let us see therefore how the rest of the feasts follow in order in Matthew's Gospel: for he
was an eye-witness of what he relates, and so tells all things in due order of time, which
Mark and Luke do not. 19. Luke ix. 51, 57. The Scribe told Christ he would bear him company
in his journey, and Christ replied that he wanted a lodging. Now this feast I take to be the
feast of Tabernacles, because soon after I find Christ and his Apostles on the sea of Tiberias
in a storm so great, that the ship was covered with water and in danger of sinking, till Christ
rebuked the winds and the sea, Matth. viii. 23. For this storm shews that winter was now come
on. Which several passages shew, that from the imprisonment of John till now there had been
a considerable length of time: the winter was now past, and the next Passover was at hand;
for immediately after this, Matthew, in chap. xii. subjoins, that Jesus went on the sabbath-day
thro' the corn, and his disciples were an hungred, and began to pluck the ears of corn and
to eat,--rubbing them, saith Luke, in their hands: the corn therefore was not only in the ear,
but ripe; and consequently the Passover, in which the first-fruits were always offered before
the harvest, was now come or past. Luke calls this sabbath [Greek: deuteroprôton], the second
prime sabbath, that is, the second of the two great feasts of the Passover. As we call Easter
day high Easter, and its octave low Easter or Lowsunday: so Luke calls the feast on the seventh
day of the unlevened bread, the second of the two prime sabbaths.

In one of the sabbaths following he went into a Synagogue, and healed a man with a withered
hand, Matth. xii. 9. Luke vi. 6. 14. Afterwards being in a ship, and the multitude standing
on the shore, he spake to them three parables together, taken from the seeds-men sowing the
fields, Matth. xiii. by which we may know that it was now seed-time, and by consequence that
the feast of Tabernacles was past. After this he went into his own country, and taught them
in their Synagogue, but did not many mighty works there because of their unbelief. Then the
twelve having been abroad a year, returned, and told Jesus all that they had done: and at the
same time Herod beheaded John in prison, and his disciples came and told Jesus; and when Jesus
heard it, he took the twelve and departed thence privately by ship into a desert place belonging
to Bethsaida: and the people when they knew it, followed him on foot out of the cities, the
winter being now past; and he healed their sick, and in the desert fed them to the number of
five thousand men, besides women and children, with only five loaves and two fishes, Matth.
xiv. Luke ix. at the doing of which miracle the Passover of the Jews was nigh, John vi. 4.
But Jesus went not up to this feast; but after these things walked in Galilee, because the
Jews at the Passover before had taken counsel to destroy him, and still sought to kill him,
John vii. i. Henceforward therefore he is found first in the coast of Tyre and Sidon, then
by the sea of Galilee, afterwards in the coast of Cæsarea Philippi; and lastly at Capernaum,
Matth. xv. 21, 29. xvi. 13. xvii. 34.

Afterwards when the feast of Tabernacles was at hand, his brethren upbraided him for walking
secretly, and urged him to go up to the feast. But he went not till they were gone, and then
went up privately, John vii. 2. and when the Jews sought to stone him, he escaped, John viii.
59. After this he was at the feast of the Dedication in winter, John x. 22. and when they sought
again to take him, he fled beyond Jordan, John x. 39, 40. Matth. xix. 1. where he stayed till
the death of Lazarus, and then came to Bethany near Jerusalem, and raised him, John xi. 53, 54.

Thus have we, in the Gospels of Matthew and John compared together, the history of Christ's
actions in continual order during five Passovers. John is more distinct in the beginning and
end; Matthew in the middle: what either omits, the other supplies. The first Passover was between
the baptism of Christ and the imprisonment of John, John ii. 13. the second within four months
after the imprisonment of John, and Christ's beginning to preach in Galilee, John iv. 35. and
therefore it was either that feast to which Jesus went up, when the Scribe desired to follow
him, Matth. viii. 19. Luke ix. 51, 57. or the feast before it. The third was the next feast
after it, when the corn was eared and ripe, Matth, xii. 1. Luke vi. 1. The fourth was that
which was nigh at hand when Christ wrought the miracle of the five loaves, Matth. xiv. 15.
John vi. 4, 5. and the fifth was that in which Christ suffered, Matth. xx. 17. John xii. 1.

Between the first and second Passover John and Christ baptized together, till the imprisonment
of John, which was four months before the second. Then Christ began to preach, and call his
disciples; and after he had instructed them a year, lent them to preach in the cities of the
Jews: at the same time John hearing of the fame of Christ, sent to him to know who he was.
At the third, the chief Priests began to consult about the death of Christ. A little before
the fourth, the twelve after they had preached a year in all the cities, returned to Christ;
and at the same time Herod beheaded John in prison, after he had been in prison two years and
a quarter: and thereupon Christ fled into the desart for fear of Herod. The fourth Christ went
not up to Jerusalem for fear of the Jews, who at the Passover before had consulted his death,
and because his time was not yet come. Thenceforward therefore till the feast of Tabernacles
he walked in Galilee, and that secretly for fear of Herod: and after the feast of Tabernacles
he returned no more into Galilee, but sometimes was at Jerusalem, and sometimes retired beyond
Jordan, or to the city Ephraim by the wilderness, till the Passover in which he was betrayed,
apprehended, and crucified.

John therefore baptized two summers, and Christ preached three. The first summer John preached
to make himself known, in order to give testimony to Christ. Then, after Christ came to his
baptism and was made known to him, he baptized another summer, to make Christ known by his
testimony; and Christ also baptized the same summer, to make himself the more known: and by
reason of John's testimony there came more to Christ's baptism than to John's. The winter following
John was imprisoned; and now his course being at an end, Christ entered upon his proper office
of preaching in the cities. In the beginning of his preaching he completed the number of the
twelve Apostles, and instructed them all the first year in order to send them abroad. Before
the end of this year, his fame by his preaching and miracles was so far spread abroad, that
the Jews at the Passover following consulted how to kill him. In the second year of his preaching,
it being no longer safe for him to converse openly in Judea, he sent the twelve to preach in
all their cities: and in the end of the year they returned to him, and told him all they had
done. All the last year the twelve continued with him to be instructed more perfectly, in order
to their preaching to all nations after his death. And upon the news of John's death, being
afraid of Herod as well as of the Jews, he walked this year more secretly than before; frequenting
desarts, and spending the last half of the year in Judea, without the dominions of Herod.

Thus have we in the Gospels of Matthew and John all things told in due order, from the beginning
of John's preaching to the death of Christ, and the years distinguished from one another by
such essential characters that they cannot be mistaken. The second Passover is distinguished
from the first, by the interposition of John's imprisonment. The third is distinguished from
the second, by a double character: first, by the interposition of the feast to which Christ
went up, Mat. viii. 19. Luke ix. 57. and secondly, by the distance of time from the beginning
of Christ's preaching: for the second was in the beginning of his preaching, and the third
so long after, that before it came Christ said, from the days of John the Baptist until now,
&c. and upbraided the cities of Galilee for their not repenting at his preaching, and mighty
works done in all that time. The fourth is distinguished from the third, by the mission of
the twelve from Christ to preach in the cities of Judea in all the interval. The fifth is distinguished
from all the former by the twelve's being returned from preaching, and continuing with Christ
during all the interval, between the fourth and fifth, and by the passion and other infallible
characters.

Now since the first summer of John's baptizing fell in the fifteenth year of the Emperor Tiberius,
and by consequence the first of these five Passovers in his sixteenth year; the last of them,
in which Jesus suffered, will fall on the twentieth year of the same Emperor; and by consequence
in the Consulship of Fabius and Vitellius, in the 79th Julian year, and year of Christ 34,
which was the sabbatical year of the Jews. And that it did so, I further confirm by these arguments.

I take it for granted that the passion was on friday the 14th day of the month Nisan, the great
feast of the Passover on saturday the 15th day of Nisan, and the resurrection on the day following.
Now the 14th day of Nisan always fell on the full moon next after the vernal Equinox; and the
month began at the new moon before, not at the true conjunction, but at the first appearance
of the new moon: for the Jews referred all the time of the silent moon, as they phrased it,
that is, of the moon's disappearing, to the old moon; and because the first appearance might
usually be about 18 hours after the true conjunction, they therefore began their month from
the sixth hour at evening, that is, at sun set, next after the eighteenth hour from the conjunction.
And this rule they called [Hebrew: YH] Jah, designing by the letters [Hebrew: Y] and [Hebrew:
H] the number 18.

I know that Epiphanius tells us, if some interpret his words rightly, that the Jews used a
vicious cycle, and thereby anticipated the legal new moons by two days. But this surely he
spake not as a witness, for he neither understood Astronomy nor Rabbinical learning, but as
arguing from his erroneous hypothesis about the time of the passion. For the Jews did not anticipate,
but postpone their months: they thought it lawful to begin their months a day later than the
first appearance of the new moon, because the new moon continued for more days than one; but
not a day sooner, lest they should celebrate the new moon before there was any. And the Jews
still keep a tradition in their books, that the Sanhedrim used diligently to define the new
moons by sight: sending witnesses into mountainous places, and examining them about the moon's
appearing, and translating the new moon from the day they had agreed on to the day before,
as often as witnesses came from distant regions, who had seen it a day sooner than it was seen
at Jerusalem. Accordingly Josephus, one of the Jewish Priests who ministred in the temple,
tells us [2] that the Passover was kept on the 14th day of Nisan, [Greek: kata selênên] according
to the moon, when the sun was in Aries. This is confirmed also by two instances, recorded by
him, which totally overthrow the hypothesis of the Jews using a vicious cycle. For that year
in which Jerusalem was taken and destroyed, he saith, the Passover was on the 14th day of the
month Xanticus, which according to Josephus is our April; and that five years before, it fell
on the 8th day of the same month. Which two instances agree with the course of the moon.

Computing therefore the new moons of the first month according to the course of the moon and
the rule Jah, and thence counting 14 days, I find that the 14th day of this month in the year
of Christ 31, fell on tuesday March 27; in the year 32, on sunday Apr. 13; in the year 33,
on friday Apr. 3; in the year 34, on wednesday March 24, or rather, for avoiding the Equinox
which fell on the same day, and for having a fitter time for harvest, on thursday Apr. 22.
also in the year 35, on tuesday Apr. 12. and in the year 36, on saturday March 31.

But because the 15th and 21st days of Nisan, and a day or two of Pentecost, and the 10th, 15th,
and 22d of Tisri, were always sabbatical days or days of rest, and it was inconvenient on two
sabbaths together to be prohibited burying their dead and making ready fresh meat, for in that
hot region their meat would be apt in two days to corrupt: to avoid these and such like inconveniences,
the Jews postponed their months a day, as often as the first day of the month Tisri, or, which
is all one, the third of the month Nisan, was sunday, wednesday or friday: and this rule they
called [Hebrew: 'DW] Adu, by the letters [Hebrew: W , D , '] signifying the numbers 1, 4, 6;
that is, the 1st, 4th, and 6th days of the week; which days we call sunday, wednesday and friday.
Postponing therefore by this rule the months found above; the 14th day of the month Nisan will
fall in the year of Christ 31, on wednesday March 28; in the year 32, on monday Apr. 14; in
the year 33, on friday Apr. 3; in the year 34, on friday Apr. 23; in the year 35, on wednesday
Apr. 13, and in the year 36, on saturday March 31.

By this computation therefore the year 32 is absolutely excluded, because the Passion cannot
fall on friday without making it five days after the full moon, or two days before it; whereas
it ought to be upon the day of the full moon, or the next day. The year 36 is contended for
by few or none, and both this and the year 35 may be thus excluded.

Tiberius in the beginning of his reign made Valerius Gratus President of Judea; and after 11
years, substituted Pontius Pilate, who governed 10 years. Then Vitellius, newly made President
of Syria, deprived him of his honour, substituting Marcellus, and at length sent him to Rome:
but, by reason of delays, Tiberius died before Pilate got thither. In the mean time Vitellius,
after he had deposed Pilate, came to Jerusalem in the time of the Passover, to visit that Province
as well as others in the beginning of his office; and in the place of Caiaphas, then High Priest,
created Jonathas the son of Ananus, or Annas as he is called in scripture. Afterwards, when
Vitellius was returned to Antioch, he received letters from Tiberius, to make peace with Artabanus
king of the Parthians. At the same time the Alans, by the sollicitation of Tiberius, invaded
the kingdom of Artabanus; and his subjects also, by the procurement of Vitellius, soon after
rebelled: for Tiberius thought that Artabanus, thus pressed with difficulties, would more readily
accept the conditions of peace. Artabanus therefore straightway gathering a greater army, opprest
the rebels; and then meeting Vitellius at Euphrates, made a league with the Romans. After this
Tiberius commanded Vitellius to make war upon Aretas King of Arabia. He therefore leading his
army against Aretas, went together with Herod to Jerusalem, to sacrifice at the publick feast
which was then to be celebrated. Where being received honourably, he stayed three days, and
in the mean while translated the high Priesthood from Jonathas to his brother Theophilus: and
the fourth day, receiving letters of the death of Tiberius, made the people swear allegiance
to Caius the new Emperor; and recalling his army, sent them into quarters. All this is related
by Josephus Antiq. lib. 18. c. 6, 7. Now Tiberius reigned 22 years and 7 months, and died March
16, in the beginning of the year of Christ 37; and the feast of the Passover fell on April
20 following, that is, 35 days after the death of Tiberius: so that there were about 36 or
38 days, for the news of his death to come from Rome to Vitellius at Jerusalem; which being
a convenient time for that message, confirms that the feast which Vitellius and Herod now went
up to was the Passover. For had it been the Pentecost, as is usually supposed, Vitellius would
have continued three months ignorant of the Emperor's death: which is not to be supposed. However,
the things done between this feast and the Passover which Vitellius was at before, namely,
the stirring up a sedition in Parthia, the quieting that sedition, the making a league after
that with the Parthians, the sending news of that league to Rome, the receiving new orders
from thence to go against the Arabians, and the putting those orders in execution; required
much more time than the fifty days between the Passover and Pentecost of the same year: and
therefore the Passover which Vitellius first went up to, was in the year before. Therefore
Pilate was deposed before the Passover A.C. 36, and by consequence the passion of Christ was
before that Passover: for he suffered not under Vitellius, nor under Vitellius and Pilate together,
but under Pilate alone.

Now it is observable that the high Priesthood was at this time become an annual office, and
the Passover was the time of making a new high Priest. For Gratus the predecessor of Pilate,
saith Josephus, made Ismael high Priest after Ananus; and a while after, suppose a year, deposed
him, and substituted Eleazar, and a year after Simon, and after another year Caiaphas; and
then gave way to Pilate. So Vitellius at one Passover made Jonathas successor to Caiaphas,
and at the next Theophilus to Jonathas. Hence Luke tells us, that in the 15th year of Tiberius,
Annas and Caiaphas were high Priests, that is, Annas till the Passover, and Caiaphas afterwards.
Accordingly John speaks of the high Priesthood as an annual office: for he tells us again and
again, in the last year of Christ's preaching, that Caiaphas was high Priest for that year,
John xi. 49, 51. xviii. 13. And the next year Luke tells you, that Annas was high Priest, Acts
iv. 6. Theophilus was therefore made high Priest in the first year of Caius, Jonathas in the
22d year of Tiberius, and Caiaphas in the 21st year of the same Emperor: and therefore, allotting
a year to each, the Passion, when Annas succeeded Caiaphas, could not be later than the 20th
year of Tiberius, A.C. 34.

Thus there remain only the years 33 and 34 to be considered; and the year 33 I exclude by this
argument. In the Passover two years before the Passion, when Christ went thro' the corn, and
his disciples pluckt the ears, and rubbed them with their hands to eat; this ripeness of the
corn shews that the Passover then fell late: and so did the Passover A.C. 32, April 14, but
the Passover A.C. 31, March 28th, fell very early. It was not therefore two years after the
year 31, but two years after 32 that Christ suffered.

Thus all the characters of the Passion agree to the year 34; and that is the only year to which
they all agree.

Notes to Chap. XI.

[1] I observe, that Christ and his forerunner John in their parabolical discourses were wont
to allude to things present. The old Prophets, when they would describe things emphatically,
did not only draw parables from things which offered themselves, as from the rent of a garment,
1 Sam. xv. from the sabbatic year, Isa. xxxvii. from the vessels of a Potter, Jer. xviii, &c.
but also when such fit objects were wanting, they supplied them by their own actions, as by
rending a garment, 1 Kings xi. by shooting, 2 Kings xiii. by making bare their body, Isa. xx.
by imposing significant names to their sons, Isa. viii. Hos. i. by hiding a girdle in the bank
of Euphrates, Jer. xiii. by breaking a potter's vessel, Jer. xix. by putting on fetters and
yokes, Jer. xxvii. by binding a book to a stone, and casting them both into Euphrates, Jer.
li. by besieging a painted city, Ezek. iv. by dividing hair into three parts, Ezek. v. by making
a chain, Ezek. vii. by carrying out houshold stuff like a captive and trembling, Ezek. xii,
&c. By such kind of types the Prophets loved to speak. And Christ being endued with a nobler
prophetic spirit than the rest, excelled also in this kind of speaking, yet so as not to speak
by his own actions, that was less grave and decent, but to turn into parables such things as
offered themselves. On occasion of the harvest approaching, he admonishes his disciples once
and again of the spiritual harvest, John iv. 35. Matth. ix. 37. Seeing the lilies of the field,
he admonishes his disciples about gay clothing, Matth. vi. 28. In allusion to the present season
of fruits, he admonishes his disciples about knowing men by their fruits, Matth. vii. 16. 32.
Luke xxi. 29. The same day, alluding both to the season of the year and to his passion, which
was to be two days after, he formed a parable of the time of fruits approaching, and the murdering
of the heir, Matth. xxi. 33. Alluding at the same time, both to the money-changers whom he
had newly driven out of the Temple, and to his passion at hand; he made a parable of a Noble-man
going into a far country to receive a kingdom and return, and delivering his goods to his servants,
and at his return condemning the slothful servant because he put not his money to the exchangers,
Matth. xxv. 14. Luke xix. 12. Being near the Temple where sheep were kept in folds to be sold
for the sacrifices, he spake many things parabolically of sheep, of the shepherd, and of the
door of the sheepfold; and discovers that he alluded to the sheepfolds which were to be hired
in the market-place, by speaking of such folds as a thief could not enter by the door, nor
the shepherd himself open, but a porter opened to the shepherd, John x. 1, 3. Being in the
mount of Olives, Matth. xxxvi. 30. John xiv. 31. a place so fertile that it could not want
vines, he spake many things mystically of the Husbandman, and of the vine and its branches,
John xv. Meeting a blind man, he admonished of spiritual blindness, John ix. 39. At the sight
of little children, he described once and again the innocence of the elect, Matth. xviii. 2.
xix. 13. Knowing that Lazarus was dead and should be raised again, he discoursed of the resurrection
and life eternal, John xi. 25, 26. Hearing of the slaughter of some whom Pilate had slain,
he admonished of eternal death, Luke xiii. 1. To his fishermen he spake of fishers of men,
Matth. iv. 10. and composed another parable about fishes. Matth. xiii. 47. Being by the Temple,
he spake of the Temple of his body, John ii. 19. At supper he spake a parable about the mystical
supper to come in the kingdom of heaven, Luke xiv. On occasion of temporal food, he admonished
his disciples of spiritual food, and of eating his flesh and drinking his blood mystically,
John vi. 27, 53. When his disciples wanted bread, he bad them beware of the leven of the Pharisees,
Matth. xvi. 6. Being desired to eat, he answered that he had other meat, John iv. 31. In the
great day of the feast of Tabernacles, when the Jews, as their custom was, brought a great
quantity of waters from the river Shiloah into the Temple, Christ stood and cried, saying,
If any man thirst let him come unto me and drink. He that believeth in me, out of his belly
shall flow rivers of living water, John vii. 37. The next day, in allusion to the servants
who by reason of the sabbatical year were newly set free, he said, If ye continue in my word,
the truth shall make you free. Which the Jews understanding literally with respect to the present
manumission of servants, answered, We be Abraham's seed, and were never in bondage to any man:
how sayeth thou, ye shall be made free? John viii. They assert their freedom by a double argument:
first, because they were the seed of Abraham, and therefore newly made free, had they been
ever in bondage; and then, because they never were in bondage. In the last Passover, when Herod
led his army thro' Judea against Aretas King of Arabia, because Aretas was aggressor and the
stronger in military forces, as appeared by the event; Christ alluding to that state of things,
composed the parable of a weaker King leading his army against a stronger who made war upon
him, Luke xiv. 31. And I doubt not but divers other parables were formed upon other occasions,
the history of which we have not.

[2] Joseph. Antiq. lib. 3. c. 10.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAP. XII.

Of the Prophecy of the Scripture of Truth.

The kingdoms represented by the second and third Beasts, or the Bear and Leopard, are again
described by Daniel in his last Prophecy written in the third year of Cyrus over Babylon, the
year in which he conquered Persia. For this Prophecy is a commentary upon the Vision of the
Ram and He-Goat.

Behold, saith [1] he, there shall stand up yet three kings in Persia, [Cyrus, Cambyses, and
Darius Hystaspes] and the fourth [Xerxes] shall be far richer than they all: and by his strength
thro' his riches he shall stir up all against the realm of Grecia. Alexander the great having
conquered all the Persian Empire, and some part of India, died at Babylon a month before the
summer Solstice, in the year of Nabonassar 425: and his captains gave the monarchy to his bastard
brother Philip Aridæus, a man disturbed in his understanding; and made Perdiccas administrator
of the kingdom. Perdiccas with their consent made Meleager commander of the army, Seleucus
master of the horse, Craterus treasurer of the kingdom, Antipater governor of Macedon and Greece,
Ptolemy governor of Egypt; Antigonus governor of Pamphylia, Lycia, Lycaonia, and Phrygia major;
Lysimachus governor of Thrace, and other captains governors of other Provinces; as many as
had been so before in the days of Alexander the great. The Babylonians began now to count by
a new Æra, which they called the Æra of Philip, using the years of Nabonassar, and reckoning
the 425th year of Nabonassar to be the first year of Philip. Roxana the wife of Alexander being
left big with child, and about three or four months after brought to bed of a son, they called
him Alexander, saluted him King, and joined him with Philip, whom they had before placed in
the throne. Philip reigned three years under the administratorship of Perdiccas, two years
more under the administratorship of Antipater, and above a year more under that of Polyperchon;
in all six years and four months; and then was slain with his Queen Eurydice in September by
the command of Olympias the mother of Alexander the great. The Greeks being disgusted at the
cruelties of Olympias, revolted to Cassander the son and successor of Antipater. Cassander
affecting the dominion of Greece, slew Olympias; and soon after shut up the young king Alexander,
with his mother Roxana, in the castle of Amphipolis, under the charge of Glaucias, An. Nabonass.
432. The next year Ptolemy, Cassander and Lysimachus, by means of Seleucus, form'd a league
against Antigonus; and after certain wars made peace with him, An. Nabonass. 438, upon these
conditions: that Cassander should command the forces of Europe till Alexander the son of Roxana
came to age; and that Lysimachus should govern Thrace, Ptolemy Egypt and Lybia, and Antigonus
all Asia. Seleucus had possest himself of Mesopotamia, Babylonia, Sustana and Media, the year
before. About three years after Alexander's death he was made governor of Babylon by Antipater;
then was expelled by Antigonus; but now he recovered and enlarged his government over a great
part of the East: which gave occasion to a new Æra, called Æra Seleucidarum. Not long after
the peace made with Antigonus, Diodorus saith the same Olympic year; Cassander, seeing that
Alexander the son of Roxana grew up, and that it was discoursed thro'out Macedonia that it
was fit he should be set at liberty, and take upon him the government of his father's kingdom,
commanded Glaucias the governor of the castle to kill Roxana and the young king Alexander her
son, and conceal their deaths. Then Polyperchon set up Hercules, the son of Alexander the great
by Barsinè, to be king; and soon after, at the sollicitation of Cassander, caused him to be
slain. Soon after that, upon a great victory at sea got by Demetrius the son of Antigonus over
Ptolemy, Antigonus took upon himself the title of king, and gave the same title to his son.
This was An. Nabonass. 441. After his example, Seleucus, Cassander, Lysimachus and Ptolemy,
took upon themselves the title and dignity of kings, having abstained from this honour while
there remained any of Alexander's race to inherit the crown. Thus the monarchy of the Greeks
for want of an heir was broken into several kingdoms; four of which, seated to the four winds
of heaven, were very eminent. For Ptolemy reigned over Egypt, Lybia and Ethiopia; Antigonus
over Syria and the lesser Asia; Lysimachus over Thrace; and Cassander over Macedon, Greece
and Epirus, as above.

Seleucus at this time reigned over the nations which were beyond Euphrates, and belonged to
the bodies of the two first Beasts; but after six years he conquered Antigonus, and thereby
became possest of one of the four kingdoms. For Cassander being afraid of the power of Antigonus,
combined with Lysimachus, Ptolemy and Seleucus, against him: and while Lysimachus invaded the
parts of Asia next the Hellespont, Ptolemy subdued Phoenicia and Coelosyria, with the sea-coasts
of Asia.

Seleucus came down with a powerful army into Cappadocia, and joining the confederate forces,
fought Antigonus in Phrygia and flew him, and seized his kingdom, An. Nabonass. 447. After
which Seleucus built Antioch, Seleucia, Laodicea, Apamea, Berrhæa, Edessa, and other cities
in Syria and Asia; and in them granted the Jews equal privileges with the Greeks.

Demetrius the son of Antigonus retained but a small part of his father's dominions, and at
length lost Cyprus to Ptolemy; but afterwards killing Alexander, the son and successor of Cassander
king of Macedon, he seized his kingdom, An. Nabonass. 454. Sometime after, preparing a very
great army to recover his father's dominions in Asia; Seleucus, Ptolemy, Lysimachus and Pyrrhus
king of Epirus, combined against him; and Pyrrhus invading Macedon, corrupted the army of Demetrius,
put him to flight, seized his kingdom, and shared it with Lysimachus. After seven months, Lysimachus
beating Pyrrhus, took Macedon from him, and held it five years and a half, uniting the kingdoms
of Macedon and Thrace. Lysimachus in his wars with Antigonus and Demetrius, had taken from
them Caria, Lydia, and Phrygia; and had a treasury in Pergamus, a castle on the top of a conical
hill in Phrygia, by the river Caicus, the custody of which he had committed to one Philetærus,
who was at first faithful to him, but in the last year of his reign revolted. For Lysimachus,
having at the instigation of his wife Arsinoe, slain first his own son Agathocles, and then
several that lamented him; the wife of Agathocles fled with her children and brothers, and
some others of their friends, and sollicited Seleucus to make war upon Lysimachus; whereupon
Philetærus also, who grieved at the death of Agathocles, and was accused thereof by Arsinoe,
took up arms, and sided with Seleucus. On this occasion Seleucus and Lysimachus met and fought
in Phrygia; and Lysimachus being slain in the battel, lost his kingdom to Seleucus, An. Nabonass.
465. Thus the Empire of the Greeks, which at first brake into four kingdoms, became now reduced
into two notable ones, henceforward called by Daniel the kings of the South and North. For
Ptolemy now reigned over Egypt, Lybia, Ethiopia, Arabia, Phoenicia, Coelosyria, and Cyprus;
and Seleucus, having united three of the four kingdoms, had a dominion scarce inferior to that
of the Persian Empire, conquered by Alexander the great.

After Seleucus had reigned seven months over Macedon, Greece, Thrace, Asia, Syria, Babylonia,
Media, and all the East as far as India; Ptolemy Ceraunus, the younger brother of Ptolemy Philadelphus
king of Egypt, slew him treacherously, and seized his dominions in Europe: while Antiochus
Soter, the son of Seleucus, succeeded his father in Asia, Syria, and most of the East; and
after nineteen or twenty years was succeeded by his son Antiochus Theos; who having a lasting
war with Ptolemy Philadelphus, at length composed the same by marrying Berenice the daughter
of Philadelphus: but after a reign of fifteen years, his first wife Laodice poisoned him, and
set her son Seleucus Callinicus upon the throne. Callinicus in the beginning of his reign,
by the impulse of his mother Laodice, besieged Berenice in Daphne near Antioch, and slew her
with her young son and many of her women. Whereupon Ptolemy Euergetes, the son and successor
of Philadelphus, made war upon Callinicus; took from him Phoenicia, Syria, Cilicia, Mesopotamia,
Babylonia, Sustana, and some other regions; and carried back into Egypt 40000 talents of silver,
and 2500 images of the Gods, amongst which were the Gods of Egypt carried away by Cambyses.
Antiochus Hierax at first assisted his brother Callinicus, but afterwards contended with him
for Asia. In the mean time Eumenes governor of Pergamus beat Antiochus, and took from them
both all Asia westward of mount Taurus. This was in the fifth year of Callinicus, who after
an inglorious reign of 20 years was succeeded by his son Seleucus Ceraunus; and Euergetes after
four years more, An. Nabonass. 527, was succeeded by his son Ptolemy Philopator. All which
is thus signified by Daniel:[3] And in the end of years they [the kings of the South and North]
shall join themselves together: for the king's daughter of the South [Berenice] shall come
to the king of the North to make an agreement, but she shall not retain the power of the arm;
neither shall she stand, nor her seed, but she shall be delivered up, and he [Callinicus] that
brought her, and he whom she brought forth, and they that strengthned her in [those] times,
[or defended her in the siege of Daphne.] But out of a branch of her roots shall one stand
up in his seat [her brother Euergetes] who shall come with an army, and shall enter into the
fortress [or fenced cities] of the king of the North, and shall act against them and prevail:
and shall carry captives into Egypt, their Gods with their Princes and precious vessels of
silver and gold; and he shall continue some years after the king of the North.

Seleucus Ceraunus, inheriting the remains of his father's kingdom, and thinking to recover
the rest, raised a great army against the governor of Pergamus, now King thereof, but died
in the third year of his reign. His brother and successor, Antiochus Magnus, carrying on the
war, took from the King of Pergamus almost all the lesser Asia, recovering also the Provinces
of Media, Persia and Babylonia, from the governors who had revolted: and in the fifth year
of his reign invading Coelosyria, he with little opposition possest himself of a good part
thereof; and the next year returning to invade the rest of Coelosyria and Phoenicia, beat the
army of Ptolemy Philopator near Berytus; he then invaded Palestine and the neighbouring parts
of Arabia, and the third year returned with an army of 78000: but Ptolemy coming out of Egypt
with an army of 75000, fought and routed him at Raphia near Gaza, between Palestine and Egypt;
and recovered all Phoenicia and Coelosyria, Ann. Nabonass. 532. Being puffed up with this victory,
and living in all manner of luxury, the Egyptians revolted, and had wars with him, but were
overcome; and in the broils sixty thousand Egyptian Jews were slain. All which is thus described
by Daniel: [4] But his sons [Seleucus Ceraunus, and Antiochus Magnus, the sons of Callinicus]
shall be stirred up, and shall gather a great army; and he [Antiochus Magnus] shall come effectually
and overflow, and pass thro' and return, and [again the next year] be stirred up [marching
even] to his fortress, [the frontier towns of Egypt;] and the King of the South shall be moved
with choler, and come forth [the third year] and fight with him, even with the King of the
North; and he [the King of the North] shall lead forth a great multitude, but the multitude
shall be given into his hand. And the multitude being taken away, his heart shall be lifted
up, and he shall cast down many ten thousands; but he shall not be strengthned by it: for the
king of the North shall return, &c.

About twelve years after the battle between Philopator and Antiochus, Philopator died; and
left his kingdom to his young son Ptolemy Epiphanes, a child of five years old. Thereupon Antiochus
Magnus confederated with Philip king of Macedon, that they should each invade the dominions
of Epiphanes which lay next to them. Hence arose a various war between Antiochus and Epiphanes,
each of them seizing Phoenicia and Coelosyria by turns; whereby those countries were much afflicted
by both parties. First Antiochus seized them; then one Scopas being sent with the army of Egypt,
recovered them from Antiochus: the next year, An. Nabonass. 550, Antiochus fought and routed
Scopas near the fountains of Jordan, besieged him in Sidon, took the city, and recovered Syria
and Phoenicia from Egypt, the Jews coming over to him voluntarily. But about three years after,
preparing for a war against the Romans, he came to Raphia on the borders of Egypt; made peace
with Epiphanes, and gave him his daughter Cleopatra: next autumn he passed the Hellespont to
invade the cities of Greece under the Roman protection, and took some of them; but was beaten
by the Romans the summer following, and forced to return back with his army into Asia. Before
the end of the year the fleet of Antiochus was beaten by the fleet of the Romans near Phocæa:
and at the same time Epiphanes and Cleopatra sent an embassy to Rome to congratulate the Romans
on their success against their father Antiochus, and to exhort them to prosecute the war against
him into Asia. The Romans beat Antiochus again at sea near Ephesus, past their army over the
Hellespont, and obtain'd a great victory over him by land, took from him all Asia westward
of mount Taurus, gave it to the King of Pergamus who assisted them in the war; and imposed
a large tribute upon Antiochus. Thus the King of Pergamus, by the power of the Romans, recovered
what Antiochus had taken from him; and Antiochus retiring into the remainder of his kingdom,
was slain two years after by the Persians, as he was robbing the Temple of Jupiter Belus in
Elymais, to raise money for the Romans. All which is thus described by Daniel. [5] For the
King of the North [Antiochus] shall return, and shall set forth a multitude greater than the
former; and shall certainly come, after certain years, with a great army and with much riches.
But he that cometh against him shall do according to his own will, and none shall stand before
him: and he shall stand in the glorious land, which shall fail in his hand. He shall also set
his face to go with the strength [or army] of all his kingdom, and make an agreement with him
[at Raphia;] and he shall give him the daughter of women corrupting her; but she shall not
stand his side, neither be for him.

Seleucus Philopator succeeded his father Antiochus, Anno Nabonass. 561, and reigned twelve
years, but did nothing memorable, being sluggish, and intent upon raising money for the Romans
to whom he was tributary. He was slain by Heliodorus, whom he had sent to rob the Temple of
Jerusalem. Daniel thus describes his reign. [6] Then shall stand up in his estate a raiser
of taxes in the glory of the kingdom, but within few days be shall be destroyed, neither in
anger nor in battle.

A little before the death of Philopator, his son Demetrius was sent hostage to Rome, in the
place of Antiochus Epiphanes, the brother of Philopator; and Antiochus was at Athens in his
way home from Rome, when Philopator died: whereupon Heliodorus the treasurer of the kingdom,
stept into the throne. But Antiochus so managed his affairs, that the Romans kept Demetrius
at Rome; and their ally the King of Pergamus expelled Heliodorus, and placed Antiochus in the
throne, while Demetrius the right heir remained an hostage at Rome. Antiochus being thus made
King by the friendship of the King of Pergamus reigned powerfully over Syria and the neighbouring
nations: but carried himself much below his dignity, stealing privately out of his palace,
rambling up and down the city in disguise with one or two of his companions; conversing and
drinking with people of the lowest rank, foreigners and strangers; frequenting the meetings
of dissolute persons to feast and revel; clothing himself like the Roman candidates and officers,
acting their parts like a mimick, and in publick festivals jesting and dancing with servants
and light people, exposing himself by all manner of ridiculous gestures. This conduct made
some take him for a madman, and call him Antiochus [Greek: Epimenês]. In the first year of
his reign he deposed Onias the high-Priest, and sold the high-Priesthood to Jason the younger
brother of Onias: for Jason had promised to give him 440 talents of silver for that office,
and 15 more for a licence to erect a place of exercise for the training up of youth in the
fashions of the heathen; which licence was granted by the King, and put in execution by Jason.
Then the King sending one Apollonius into Egypt to the coronation of Ptolemy Philometor, the
young son of Philometor and Cleopatra, and knowing Philometor not to be well affected to his
affairs in Phoenicia, provided for his own safety in those parts; and for that end came to
Joppa and Jerusalem, where he was honourably received; from thence he went in like manner with
his little army to the cities of Phoenicia, to establish himself against Egypt, by courting
the people, and distributing extraordinary favours amongst them. All which is thus represented
by Daniel. [7] And in his [Philometor's] estate shall stand up a vile person, to whom they
[the Syrians who set up Heliodorus] shall not give the honour of the kingdom. Yet he shall
come in peaceably, and obtain the kingdom by flatteries [made principally to the King of Pergamus;]
and the arms [which in favour of Heliodorus oppose him] shall be overflowed with a food from
before him, and be broken; yea also [Onias the high-Priest] the Prince of the covenant. And
after the league made with him, [the King of Egypt, by sending Apollonius to his coronation]
he shall work deceitfully [against the King of Egypt,] for he shall come up and shall become
strong [in Phoenicia ] with a small people.

These things were done in the first year of his reign, An. Nabonass. 573. And thenceforward
he forecast his devices against the strong holds of Egypt, until the sixth year. For three
years after, that is in the fourth year of his reign, Menelaus bought the high-Priesthood from
Jason, but not paying the price was sent for by the King; and the King, before he could hear
the cause, went into Cilicia to appease a sedition there, and left Andronicus his deputy at
Antioch; in the mean time the brother of Menelaus, to make up the money, conveyed several vessels
out of the Temple, selling some of them at Tyre, and sending others to Andronicus. When Menelaus
was reproved for this by Onias, he caused Onias to be slain by Andronicus: for which fact the
King at his return from Cilicia caused Andronicus to be put to death. Then Antiochus prepared
his second expedition against Egypt, which he performed in the sixth year of his reign, An.
Nabonass. 578: for upon the death of Cleopatra, the governors of her son the young King of
Egypt claimed Phoenicia and Coelosyria from him as her dowry; and to recover those countries
raised a great army. Antiochus considering that his father had not quitted the possession of
those countries[8], denied they were her dowry; and with another great army met and fought
the Egyptians on the borders of Egypt, between Pelusium and the mountain Casius. He there beat
them, and might have destroyed their whole army, but that he rode up and down, commanding his
soldiers not to kill them, but to take them alive: by which humanity he gained Pelusium, and
soon after all Egypt; entring it with a vast multitude of foot and chariots, elephants and
horsemen, and a great navy. Then seizing the cities of Egypt as a friend, he marched to Memphis,
laid the whole blame of the war upon Eulæus the King's governor, entred into outward friendship
with the young King, and took upon him to order the affairs of the kingdom. While Aniochus
was thus employ'd, a report being spread in Phoenicia that he was dead, Jason to recover the
high-Priesthood assaulted Jerusalem with above a thousand men, and took the city: hereupon
the King thinking Judea had revolted, came out of Egypt in a furious manner, re-took the city,
slew forty thousand of the people, made as many prisoners, and sold them to raise money; went
into the Temple, spoiled it of its treasures, ornaments, utensils, and vessels of gold and
silver, amounting to 1800 talents; and carried all away to Antioch. This was done in the year
of Nabonassar 578, and is thus described by Daniel. And both these Kings hearts shall be to
do mischief; and they, being now made friends, shall speak lyes at one table, against the Jews
and against the holy covenant; but it shall not prosper: for yet the end, in which the setting
up of the abomination of desolation is to prosper, shall be at the time appointed. Then shall
he return into his land with great riches, and his heart shall be against the holy covenant;
and he shall act, against it by spoiling the Temple, and return into his own land.

The Egyptians of Alexandria seeing Philometor first educated in luxury by the Eunuch Eulæus,
and now in the hands of Antiochus, gave the kingdom to Euergetes, the younger brother of Philometor.
Whereupon Antiochus pretending to restore Philometor, made war upon Euergetes; beat him at
sea, and besieged him and his sister Cleopatra in Alexandria: while the besieged Princes sent
to Rome to implore the assistance of the Senate. Antiochus finding himself unable to take the
city that year, returned into Syria, leaving Philometor at Memphis to govern Egypt in his absence.
But Philometor made friendship with his brother that winter; and Antiochus, returning the next
spring An. Nabonass. 580, to besiege both the brothers in Alexandria, was met in the way by
the Roman Ambassadors, Popilius Læna, C. Decimius, and C. Hostilius: he offered them his hand
to kiss, but Popilius delivering to him the tables wherein the message of the Senate was written,
bad him read those first. When he had read them, he replied he would consider with his friends
what was fit to be done; but Popilius drawing a circle about him, bad him answer before he
went out of it: Antiochus, astonished at this blunt and unusual imperiousness, made answer
he would do what the Romans demanded; and then Popilius gave the King his hand to kiss, and
he returned out of Egypt. The same year, An. Nabonass. 580, his captains by his order spoiled
and slaughtered the Jews, profaned the Temple, set up the worship of the heathen Gods in all
Judea, and began to persecute and make war upon those who would not worship them: which actions
are thus described by Daniel. [10] At the time appointed he shall come again towards the South,
but the latter shall not be as the former. For the ships of Chittim shall come, with an embassy
from Rome, against him. Therefore he shall be grieved, and return, and have indignation against
the holy covenant. So shall he do; he shall even return, and have intelligence with them that
forsake the holy covenant.

In the same year that Antiochus by the command of the Romans retired out of Egypt, and set
up the worship of the Greeks in Judea; the Romans conquered the kingdom of Macedon, the fundamental
kingdom of the Empire of the Greeks, and reduced it into a Roman Province; and thereby began
to put an end to the reign of Daniel's third Beast. This is thus exprest by Daniel. And after
him Arms, that is the Romans, shall stand up. Hitherto Daniel described the actions of the
Kings of the North and South; but upon the conquest of Macedon by the Romans, he left off describing
the actions of the Greeks, and began to describe those of the Romans in Greece. They conquered
Macedon, Illyricum and Epirus, in the year of Nabonassar 580. For this abomination was placed
after the days of Christ, Math. xxiv. 15.

In the beginning of the Jewish war in Nero's reign, the Apostles fled out of Judea with their
flocks; some beyond Jordan to Pella and other places, some into Egypt, Syria, Mesopotamia,
Asia minor, and elsewhere. Peter and John came into Asia, and Peter went thence by Corinth
to Rome; but John staying in Asia, was banished by the Romans into Patmos, as the head of a
party of the Jews, whose nation was in war with the Romans. By this dispersion of the Christian
Jews, the Christian religion, which was already propagated westward as far as Rome, spred fast
into all the Roman Empire, and suffered many persecutions under it till the days of Constantine
the great and his sons: all which is thus described by Daniel. [11] And such as do wickedly
against the covenant, shall he, who places the abomination, cause to dissemble, and worship
the heathen Gods; but the people among them who do know their God, shall be strong and act.

Hitherto the Roman Empire continued entire; and under this dominion, the little horn of the
He-Goat continued mighty, but not by his own power. But now, by the building of Constantinople,
and endowing it with a Senate and other like privileges with Rome; and by the division of the
Roman Empire into the two Empires of the Greeks and Latins, headed by those two cities; a new
scene of things commences, in which which [12] a King, the Empire of the Greeks, doth according
to his will, and, by setting his own laws above the laws of God, exalts and magnifies himself
above every God, and speaks marvellous things against the God of Gods, and shall prosper till
the indignation be accomplished.--Neither shall he regard the God of his fathers, nor the lawful
desire of women in matrimony, nor any God, but shall magnify himself above all. And in his
seat he shall honour Mahuzzims, that is, strong guardians, the souls of the dead; even with
a God whom his fathers knew not shall he honour them, in their Temples, with gold and silver,
and with precious stones and valuable things. All which relates to the overspreading of the
Greek Empire with Monks and Nuns, who placed holiness in abstinence from marriage; and to the
invocation of saints and veneration of their reliques, and such like superstitions, which these
men introduced in the fourth and fifth centuries. All these nations compose the Empire of the
Turks, and therefore this Empire is here to be understood by the King of the North. They compose
also the body of the He-Goat; and therefore the Goat still reigns in his last horn, but not
by his own power.

Notes to Chap. XII.

[1] Chap. xi. 2, 3, 4.

[2] Chap. xi. 5.

[3] Chap. xi. 6, 7, 8.

[4] Chap. xi. 10, &c.

[5] Chap. xi. 13-19.

[6] Chap. xi. 20.

[7] Chap. xi. 21, &c.

[8] 2 Maccab. iii. 5, 8. & iv. 4.

[9] Chap. xi. 25, &c.

[10] Chap. xi. 29, 30.

[11] Chap. xi. 32, &c.

[12] Chap. xi. 36, &c.

[13] Chap. xi.

In the first ages of the Christian religion the Christians of every city were governed by a
Council of Presbyters, and the President of the Council was the Bishop of the city. The Bishop
and Presbyters of one city meddled not with the affairs of another city, except by admonitory
letters or messages. Nor did the Bishops of several cities meet together in Council before
the time of the Emperor Commodus: for they could not meet together without the leave of the
Roman governors of the Provinces. But in the days of that Emperor they began to meet in Provincial
Councils, by the leave of the governors; first in Asia, in opposition to the Cataphrygian Heresy,
and soon after in other places and upon other occasions. The Bishop of the chief city, or Metropolis
of the Roman Province, was usually made President of the Council; and hence came the authority
of Metropolitan Bishops above that of other Bishops within the same Province. Hence also it
was that the Bishop of Rome in Cyprian's days called himself the Bishop of Bishops. As soon
as the Empire became Christian, the Roman Emperors began to call general Councils out of all
the Provinces of the Empire; and by prescribing to them what points they should consider, and
influencing them by their interest and power, they set up what party they pleased. Hereby the
Greek Empire, upon the division of the Roman Empire into the Greek and Latin Empires, became
the King who, in matters of religion, did according to his will; and, in legislature, exalted
and magnified himself above every God: and at length, by the seventh general Council, established
the worship of the images and souls of dead men, here called Mahuzzims.

The same King placed holiness in abstinence from marriage. Eusebius in his Ecclesiastical history
[1] tells us, that Musanus wrote a tract against those who fell away to the heresy of the Encratites,
which was then newly risen, and had introduced pernicious errors; and that Tatian, the disciple
of Justin, was the author thereof; and that Irenæus in his first book against heresies teaches
this, writing of Tatian and his heresy in these words: A Saturnino & Marcione profecti qui
vocantur Continentes, docuerunt non contrahendum esse matrimonium; reprobantes scilicet primitivum
illud opificium Dei, & tacitè accusantes Deum qui masculum & fæminam condidit ad procreationem
generis humani. Induxerunt etiam abstinentiam ab esu eorum quæ animalia appellant, ingratos
se exhibentes ergo eum qui universa creavit Deum. Negant etiam primi hominis salutem. Atque
hoc nuper apud illos excogitatum est, Tatiano quodam omnium primo hujus impietatis auctore:
qui Justini auditor, quamdiu cum illo versatus est, nihil ejusmodi protulit. Post martyrium
autem illius, ab Ecclesia se abrumpens, doctoris arrogantia elatus ac tumidus, tanquam præstantior
cæteris, novam quandam formam doctrinæ conflavit: Æonas invisibiles commentus perinde ac Valentinus:
asserens quoque cum Saturnino & Marcione, matrimonium nihil aliud esse quam corruptionem ac
stuprum: nova præterea argumenta ad subvertendam Adami salutem excogitans. Hæc Irenæus de Hæresi
quæ tunc viguit Encratitarum. Thus far Eusebius. But altho the followers of Tatian were at
first condemned as hereticks by the name of Encratites, or Continentes; their principles could
not be yet quite exploded: for Montanus refined upon them, and made only second marriages unlawful;
he also introduced frequent fastings, and annual, fasting days, the keeping of Lent, and feeding
upon dried meats. The Apostolici, about the middle of the third century, condemned marriage,
and were a branch of the disciples of Tatian. The Hierocitæ in Egypt, in the latter end of
the third century, also condemned marriage. Paul the Eremite fled into the wilderness from
the persecution of Decius, and lived there a solitary life till the reign of Constantine the
great, but made no disciples. Antony did the like in the persecution of Dioclesian, or a little
before, and made disciples; and many others soon followed his example.

Hitherto the principles of the Encratites had been rejected by the Churches; but now being
refined by the Monks, and imposed not upon all men, but only upon those who would voluntarily
undertake a monastic life, they began to be admired, and to overflow first the Greek Church,
and then the Latin also, like a torrent. Eusebius tells us, [2] that Constantine the great
had those men in the highest veneration, who dedicated themselves wholly to the divine philosophy;
and that he almost venerated the most holy company of Virgins perpetually devoted to God; being
certain that the God to whom he had consecrated himself did dwell in their minds. In his time
and that of his sons, this profession of a single life was propagated in Egypt by Antony, and
in Syria by Hilarion; and spred so fast, that soon after the time of Julian the Apostate a
third part of the Egyptians were got into the desarts of Egypt. They lived first singly in
cells, then associated into coenobia or convents; and at length came into towns, and filled
the Churches with Bishops, Presbyters and Deacons. Athanasius in his younger days poured water
upon the hands of his master Antony; and finding the Monks faithful to him, made many of them
Bishops and Presbyters in Egypt: and these Bishops erected new Monasteries, out of which they
chose Presbyters of their own cities, and sent Bishops to others. The like was done in Syria,
the superstition being quickly propagated thither out of Egypt by Hilarion a disciple of Antony.
Spiridion and Epiphanius of Cyprus, James of Nisibis, Cyril of Jerusalem, Eustathius of Sebastia
in Armenia, Eusebius of Emisa, Titus of Bostra, Basilius of Ancyra, Acacius of Cæsarea in Palestine,
Elpidius of Laodicea, Melitius and Flavian of Antioch, Theodorus of Tyre, Protogenes of Carrhæ,
Acacius of Berrhæa, Theodotus of Hierapolis, Eusebius of Chalcedon, Amphilochius of Iconium,
Gregory Nazianzen, Gregory Nyssen, and John Chrysostom of Constantinople, were both Bishops
and Monks in the fourth century. Eustathius, Gregory Nazianzen, Gregory Nyssen, Basil, &c.
had Monasteries of Clergymen in their cities, out of which Bishops were sent to other cities;
who in like manner erected Monasteries there, till the Churches were supplied with Bishops
out of these Monasteries. Hence Jerome, in a Letter written about the year 385, [3] saith of
the Clergy: Quasi & ipsi aliud sint quam Monachi, & non quicquid in Monachos dicitur redundet
in Clericos qui patres sunt Monachorum. Detrimentum pecoris pastoris ignominia est. And in
his book against Vigilantius: Quid facient Orientis Ecclesiæ? Quæ aut Virgines Clericos accipiunt,
aut Continentes, aut si uxores habuerint mariti esse desistunt. Not long after even the Emperors
commanded the Churches to chuse Clergymen out of the Monasteries by this Law.

Impp. Arcad & Honor. AA. Cæsario PF. P.

[4] Si quos forte Episcopi deesse sibi Clericos arbitrantur, ex monachorum numero rectius ordinabunt:
non obnoxios publicis privatisque rationibus cum invidia teneant, sed habeant jam probatos.
Dat. vii. Kal. Aug. Honorio A. iv. & Eutychianio Coss. A.C. 598. The Greek Empire being now
in the hands of these Encratites, and having them in great admiration, Daniel makes it a characteristick
of the King who doth according to his will, that he should not regard the desire of Women.

Thus the Sect of the Encratites, set on foot by the Gnosticks, and propagated by Tatian and
Montanus near the end of the second century; which was condemned by the Churches of that and
the third century, and refined upon by their followers; overspread the Eastern Churches in
the fourth century, and before the end of it began to overspread the Western. Henceforward
the Christian Churches having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof, came into
the hands of the Encratites: and the Heathens, who in the fourth century came over in great
numbers to the Christians, embraced more readily this sort of Christianity, as having a greater
affinity with their old superstitions, than that of the sincere Christians; who by the lamps
of the seven Churches of Asia, and not by the lamps of the Monasteries, had illuminated the
Church Catholic during the three first centuries.

The Cataphrygians brought in also several other superstitions: such as were the doctrine of
Ghosts, and of their punishment in Purgatory, with prayers and oblations for mitigating that
punishment, as Tertullian teaches in his books De Anima and De Monogamia. They used also the
sign of the cross as a charm. So Tertullian in his book de Corona militis: Ad omnem progressum
atque promotum, ad omnem aditum & exitum, ad vestitum, ad calceatum, ad lavacra, ad mensas,
ad lamina, ad cubilia, ad sedilia, quacunque nos conversatio exercet, frontem crucis signaculo
terimus. 1,2,3. From the Cataphrygians these principles and practices were propagated down
to posterity. 7-10.

For tho some stop was put to the Cataphrygian Christianity, by Provincial Councils, till the
fourth century; yet the Roman Emperors then turning Christians, and great multitudes of heathens
coming over in outward profession, these found the Cataphrygian Christianity more suitable
to their old principles, of placing religion in outward forms and ceremonies, holy-days, and
doctrines of Ghosts, than the religion of the sincere Christians: wherefore they readily sided
with the Cataphrygian Christians, and established that Christianity before the end of the fourth
century. By this means those of understanding, after they had been persecuted by the heathen
Emperors in the three first centuries, and were holpen with a little help, by the conversion
of Constantine the great and his sons to the Christian religion, fell under new persecutions,
to purge them from the dissemblers, and to make them white, even to the time of the end.

Notes to Chap. XIII.

[1] Lib. 4. c. 28, 29.

[2] In vita Constantini, l. 4. c. 28.

[3] Epist. 10.

[4] L. 32. de Episcopis.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAP. XIV.

Of the Mahuzzims, honoured by the King who doth according to his will.

In scripture we are told of some trusting in God and others trusting in idols, and that God
is our refuge, our strength, our defense. In this sense God is the rock of his people, and
false Gods are called the rock of those that trust in them, Deut. xxxii. 4, 15, 18, 30, 31,
37. In the same sense the Gods of the King who shall do according to his will are called Mahuzzims,
munitions, fortresses, protectors, guardians, or defenders. In his estate, saith [1] Daniel,
shall he honour Mahuzzims; even with a God whom his fathers knew not, shall he honour them
with gold and silver, and with precious stones, and things of value. Thus shall he do in the
most strong holds or temples;--and he shall cause them to rule over many, and divide the land
among them for a possession. Now this came to pass by degrees in the following manner.

Gregory Nyssen [2] tells us, that after the persecution of the Emperor Decius, Gregory Bishop
of Neocæsarea in Pontus, instituted among all people, as an addition or corollary of devotion
towards God, that festival days and assemblies should be celebrated to them who had contended
for the faith, that is, to the Martyrs. And he adds this reason for the institution: When he
observed, saith Nyssen, that the simple and unskilful multitude, by reason of corporeal delights,
remained in the error of idols; that the principal thing might be corrected among them, namely,
that instead of their vain worship they might turn their eyes upon God; he permitted that at
the memories of the holy Martyrs they might make merry and delight themselves, and be dissolved
into joy. The heathens were delighted with the festivals of their Gods, and unwilling to part
with those delights; and therefore Gregory, to facilitate their conversion, instituted annual
festivals to the Saints and Martyrs. Hence it came to pass, that for exploding the festivals
of the heathens, the principal festivals of the Christians succeeded in their room: as the
keeping of Christmas with ivy and feasting, and playing and sports, in the room of the Bacchanalia
and Saturnalia; the celebrating of May-day with flowers, in the room of the Floralia; and the
keeping of festivals to the Virgin Mary, John the Baptist, and divers of the Apostles, in the
room of the solemnities at the entrance of the Sun into the signs of the Zodiac in the old
Julian Calendar. In the same persecution of Decius, Cyprian ordered the passions of the Martyrs
in Africa to be registred, in order to celebrate their memories annually with oblations and
sacrifices: and Felix Bishop of Rome, a little after, as Platina relates, Martyrum gloria consulens,
constituit at quotannis sacrificia eorum nomine celebrarentur; "consulting the glory of the
Martyrs, ordained that sacrifices should be celebrated annually in their name." By the pleasures
of these festivals the Christians increased much in number, and decreased as much in virtue,
until they were purged and made white by the persecution of Dioclesian. This was the first
step made in the Christian religion towards the veneration of the Martyrs: and tho it did not
yet amount to an unlawful worship; yet it disposed the Christians towards such a further veneration
of the dead, as in a short time ended in the invocation of Saints.

The next step was the affecting to pray at the sepulchres of the Martyrs: which practice began
in Dioclesian's persecution. The Council of Eliberis in Spain, celebrated in the third or fourth
year of Dioclesian's persecution, A.C. 305, hath these Canons. Can. 34. Cereos per diem placuit
in Coemeterio non incendi: inquietandi enim spiritus sanctorum non sunt. Qui hæc non observârint,
arceantur ab Ecclesiæ communione. Can. 35. Placuit prohiberi ne fæminæ in Coemeterio pervigilent,
eò quod sæpe sub obtentu orationis latentèr scelera committant. Presently after that persecution,
suppose about the year 314, the Council of Laodicea in Phrygia, which then met for restoring
the lapsed discipline of the Church, has the following Canons. Can. 9. Those of the Church
are not allowed to go into the Coemeteries or Martyries, as they are called, of hereticks,
for the sake of prayer or recovery of health: but such as go, if they be of the faithful, shall
be excommunicated for a time. Can. 34. A Christian must not leave the Martyrs of Christ, and
go to false Martyrs, that is, to the Martyrs of the hereticks; for these are alien from God:
and therefore let those be anathema who go to them. Can. 51. The birth-days of the Martyrs
shall not be celebrated in Lent, but their commemoration shall be made on the Sabbath-days
and Lords days. The Council of Paphlagonia, celebrated in the year 324, made this Canon: If
any man being arrogant, abominates the congregations of the Martyrs, or the Liturgies performed
therein, or the memories of the Martyrs, let him be anathema. By all which it is manifest that
the Christians in the time of Dioclesian's persecution used to pray in the Coemeteries or burying-places
of the dead; for avoiding the danger of the persecution, and for want of Churches, which were
all thrown down: and after the persecution was over, continued that practice in honour of the
Martyrs, till new Churches could be built: and by use affected it as advantageous to devotion,
and for recovering the health of those that were sick. It also appears that in these burying-places
they commemorated the Martyrs yearly upon days dedicated to them, and accounted all these practices
pious and religious, and anathematized those men as arrogant who opposed them, or prayed in
the Martyries of the hereticks. They also lighted torches to the Martyrs in the day-time, as
the heathens did to their Gods; which custom, before the end of the fourth century, prevailed
much in the West. They sprinkled the worshipers of the Martyrs with holy-water, as the heathens
did the worshipers of their Gods; and went in pilgrimage to see Jerusalem and other holy places,
as if those places conferred sanctity on the visiters. From the custom of praying in the Coemeteries
and Martyries, came the custom of translating the bodies of the Saints and Martyrs into such
Churches as were new built: the Emperor Constantius began this practice about the year 359,
causing the bodies of Andrew the Apostle, Luke and Timothy, to be translated into a new Church
at Constantinople: and before this act of Constantius, the Egyptians kept the bodies of their
Martyrs and Saints unburied upon beds in their private houses, and told stories of their souls
appearing after death and ascending up to heaven, as Athanasius relates in the life of Antony.
All which gave occasion to the Emperor Julian, as Cyril relates, to accuse the Christians in
this manner: Your adding to that antient dead man, Jesus, many new dead men, who can sufficiently
abominate? You have filled all places with sepulchres and monuments, altho you are no where
bidden to prostrate yourselves to sepulchres, and to respect them officiously. And a little
after: Since Jesus said that sepulchres are full of filthiness, how do you invoke God upon
them? and in another place he saith, that if Christians had adhered to the precepts of the
Hebrews, they would have worshiped one God instead of many, and not a man, or rather not many
unhappy men: And that they adored the wood of the cross, making its images on their foreheads,
and before their houses.

After the sepulchres of Saints and Martyrs were thus converted into places of worship like
the heathen temples, and the Churches into sepulchres, and a certain sort of sanctity attributed
to the dead bodies of the Saints and Martyrs buried in them, and annual festivals were kept
to them, with sacrifices offered to God in their name; the next step towards the invocation
of Saints, was the attributing to their dead bodies, bones and other reliques, a power of working
miracles, by means of the separate souls, who were supposed to know what we do or say, and
to be able to do us good or hurt, and to work those miracles. This was the very notion the
heathens had of the separate souls of their antient Kings and Heroes, whom they worshiped under
the names of Saturn, Rhea, Jupiter, Juno, Mars, Venus, Bacchus, Ceres, Osiris, Isis, Apollo,
Diana, and the rest of their Gods. For these Gods being male and female, husband and wife,
son and daughter, brother and sister, are thereby discovered to be antient men and women. Now
as the first step towards the invocation of Saints was set on foot by the persecution of Decius,
and the second by the persecution of Dioclesian; so this third seems to have been owing to
the proceedings of Constantius and Julian the Apostate. When Julian began to restore the worship
of the heathen Gods, and to vilify the Saints and Martyrs; the Christians of Syria and Egypt
seem to have made a great noise about the miracles done by the reliques of the Christian Saints
and Martyrs, in opposition to the powers attributed by Julian and the heathens to their Idols.
For Sozomen and Ruffinus tell us, that when he opened the heathen Temples, and consulted the
Oracle of Apollo Daphnæus in the suburbs of Antioch, and pressed by many sacrifices for an
answer; the Oracle at length told him that the bones of the Martyr Babylas which were buried
there hinder'd him from speaking. By which answer we may understand, that some Christian was
got into the place where the heathen Priests used to speak thro' a pipe in delivering their
Oracles: and before this, Hilary in his book against Constantius, written in the last year
of that Emperor, makes the following mention of what was then doing in the East where he was.
Sine martyrio persequeris. Plus crudelitati vestræ Nero, Deci, Maximiane, debemus. Diabolum
enim per vos vicimus. Sanctus ubique beatorum martyrum sanguis exceptus est, dum in his Dæmones
mugiunt, dum ægritudines depelluntur, dum miraculorum opera cernuntur, elevari sine laqueis
corpora, & dispensis pede fæminis vestes non defluere in faciem, uri sine ignibus spiritus,
confiteri sine interrogantis incremento fidei. And Gregory Nazianzen, in his first Oration
against the Emperor Julian then reigning, writes thus: Martyres non extimuisti quibus præclari
honores & festa constituta, à quibus Dæmones propelluntur & morbi curantur; quorum sunt apparitiones
& prædictiones; quorum vel sola corpora idem possunt quod animæ sanctæ, sive manibus contrectentur,
sive honorentur: quorum vel solæ sanguinis guttæ atque exigua passionis signa idem possunt
quod corpora. Hæc non colis sed contemnis & aspernaris. These things made the heathens in the
reign of the same Emperor demolish the sepulchre of John the Baptist in Phoenicia, and burn
his bones; when several Christians mixing themselves with the heathens, gathered up some of
his remains, which were sent to Athanasius, who hid them in the wall of a Church; foreseeing
by a prophetic spirit, as Ruffinus tells us, that they might be profitable to future generations.

The cry of these miracles being once set on foot, continued for many years, and encreased and
grew more general. Chrysostom, in his second Oration on St. Babylas, twenty years after the
silencing of the Oracle of Apollo Daphnæus as above, viz. A.C. 382, saith of the miracles done
by the Saints and their reliques [3]: Nulla est nostri hujus Orbis seu regio, seu gens, seu
urbs, ubi nova & inopinata miracula hæc non decantentur; quæ quidem si figmenta fuissent, prorsus
in tantam hominum admirationem non venissent. And a little after: Abunde orationi nostræ fidem
faciunt quæ quotidiana à martyribus miracula eduntur, magna affatim ad illa hominum multitudine
affluente. And in his 66th Homily, describing how the Devils were tormented and cast out by
the bones of the Martyrs, he adds: Ob eam causam multi plerumque Reges peregrè profecti sunt,
ut hoc spectaculo fruerentur. Siquidem sanctorum martyrum templa futuri judicii vestigia &
signa exhibent, dum nimirum Dæmones flagris cæduntur, hominesque torquentur & liberantur. Vide
quæ sanctorum vitâ functorum vis sit? And Jerom in his Epitaph on Paula, thus [4] mentions
the same things. Paula vidit Samariam: ibi siti sunt Elisæus & Abdias prophetæ, & Joannes Baptista,
ubi multis intremuit consternata miraculis. Nam cernebat variis dæmones rugire cruciatibus,
& ante sepulchra sanctorum ululare, homines more luporum vocibus latrare canum, fremere leonum,
sibilare serpentum, mugire taurorum, alios rotare caput & post tergum terram vertice tangere,
suspensisque pede fæminis vestes non defluere in faciem. This was about the year 384: and Chrysostom
in his Oration on the Egyptian Martyrs, seems to make Egypt the ringleader in these matters,
saying [5]: Benedictus Deus quandoquidem ex Ægypto prodeunt martyres, ex Ægypto illa cum Deo
pugnante ac insanissima, & unde impia ora, unde linguæ blasphemæ; ex Ægypto martyres habentur;
non in Ægypto tantum, nec in finitima vicinaque regione, sed UBIQUE TERRARUM. Et quemadmodum
in annonæ summa ubertate, cum viderunt urbium incolæ majorem quam usus habitatorum postulat
esse proventum, ad peregrinas etiam urbes transmittunt: cum & suam comitatem & liberalitatem
ostendant, tum ut præter horum abundantiam cum facilitate res quibus indigent rursus ab illis
sibi comparent: sic & Ægyptii, quod attinet ad religionis athletas, fecerunt. Cum apud se multam
eorum Dei benignitate copiam cernerent, nequaquam ingens Dei munus sua civitate concluserunt,
sed in OMNES TERRÆ PARTES bonorum thesauros effuderunt: cum ut suum in fratres amorem ostenderent,
tum ut communem omnium dominum honore afficerent, ac civitati suæ gloriam apud omnes compararent,
totiusque terrarum ORBIS esse METROPOLIN declararent.--Sanctorum enim illorum corpora quovis
adamantino & inexpugnabili muro tutiùs nobis urbem communiunt, & tanquam excelsi quidam scopuli
undique prominentes, non horum qui sub sensus cadunt & oculis cernuntur hostium impetus propulsant
tantùm, sed etiam invisibilium dæmonum insidias, omnesque diaboli fraudes subvertunt ac dissipant.--Neque
vero tantùm adversus hominum insidias aut adversus fallacias dæmonum utilis nobis est hæc possessio,
sed si nobis communis dominus ob peccatorum multitudinem irascatur, his objectis corporibus
continuo poterimus eum propitium reddere civitati. This Oration was written at Antioch, while
Alexandria was yet the Metropolis of the East, that is, before the year 381, in which Constantinople
became the Metropolis: and it was a work of some years for the Egyptians to have distributed
the miracle-working reliques of their Martyrs over all the world, as they had done before that
year. Egypt abounded most with the reliques of Saints and Martyrs, the Egyptians keeping them
embalmed upon beds even in their private houses; and Alexandria was eminent above all other
cities for dispersing them, so as on that account to acquire glory with all men, and manifest
herself to be the Metropolis of the world. Antioch followed the example of Egypt, in dispersing
the reliques of the forty Martyrs: and the examples of Egypt and Syria were soon followed by
the rest of the world.

The reliques of the forty Martyrs at Antioch were distributed among the Churches before the
year 373; for Athanasius who died in that year, wrote an Oration upon them. This Oration is
not yet published, but Gerard Vossius saw it in MS. in the Library of Cardinal Ascanius in
Italy, as he says in his commentary upon the Oration of Ephræm Syrus on the same forty Martyrs.
Now since the Monks of Alexandria sent the reliques of the Martyrs of Egypt into all parts
of the earth, and thereby acquired glory to their city, and declared her in these matters the
Metropolis of the whole world, as we have observed out of Chrysostom; it may be concluded,
that before Alexandria received the forty Martyrs from Antioch, she began to send out the reliques
of her own Martyrs into all parts, setting the first example to other cities. This practice
therefore began in Egypt some years before the death of Athanasius. It began when the miracle-working
bones of John the Baptist were carried into Egypt, and hid in the wall of a Church, that they
might be profitable to future generations. It was restrained in the reign of Julian the Apostate:
and then it spred from Egypt into all the Empire, Alexandria being the Metropolis of the whole
world, according to Chrysostom, for propagating this sort of devotion, and Antioch and other
cities soon following her example.

In propagating these superstitions, the ring-leaders were the Monks, and Antony was at the
head of them: for in the end of the life of Antony, Athanasius relates that these were his
dying words to his disciples who then attended him. Do you take care, said Antony, to adhere
to Christ in the first place, and then to the Saints, that after death they may receive you
as friends and acquaintance into the everlasting tabernacles, Think upon these things, perceive
these things; and if you have any regard to me, remember me as a father. This being delivered
in charge to the Monks by Antony at his death, A.C. 356, could not but inflame their whole
body with devotion towards the Saints, as the ready way to be received, by them into the eternal
Tabernacles after death. Hence came that noise about the miracles, done by the reliques of
the Saints in the time of Constantius: hence came the dispersion of the miracle-working reliques
into all the Empire; Alexandria setting the example, and being renowned, for it above all other
cities. Hence it came to pass in the days of Julian, A.C. 362, that Athanasius by a prophetic
spirit, as Ruffinus tells us, hid the bones of John the Baptist from the Heathens, not in the
ground to be forgotten, but in the hollow wall of a Church before proper witnesses, that they
might be profitable to future generations. Hence also came the invocation of the Saints for
doing such miracles, and for assisting men in their devotions, and mediating with God. For
Athanasius, even from his youth, looked upon the dead Saints and Martyrs as mediators of our
prayers: in his Epistle to Marcellinus, written in the days of Constantine the great, he saith
that the words of the Psalms are not to be transposed or any wise changed, but to be recited
and sung without any artifice, as they are written, that the holy men who delivered them, knowing
them to be their own words, may pray with us; or rather, that the Holy Ghost who spake in the
holy men, seeing his own words with which he inspired them, may join with them in assisting us.

Whilst Egypt abounded with Monks above any other country, the veneration of the Saints began
sooner, and spred faster there than in other places. Palladius going into Egypt in the year
388 to visit the Monasteries, and the sepulchres of Apollonius and other Martyrs of Thebais
who had suffered under Maximinus, saith of them: Iis omnibus Christiani fecerunt ædem unam,
ubi nunc multæ virtutes peraguntur. Tanta autem fuit viri gratia, ut de iis quæ esset precatus
statim exaudiretur, eum sic honorante servatore: quem etiam nos in martyrio precati vidimus,
cum iis qui cum ipso fuerunt martyrio affecti; & Deum adorantes, eorum corpora salutavimus.
Eunapius also, a heathen, yet a competent witness of what was done in his own times, relating
how the soldiers delivered the temples of Egypt into the hands of the Monks, which was done
in the year 389, rails thus in an impious manner at the Martyrs, as succeeding in the room
of the old Gods of Egypt. Illi ipsi, milites, Monachos Canobi quoque collocârunt, ut pro Diis
qui animo cernuntur, servos & quidem flagitiosos divinis honoribus percolerent, hominum mentibus
ad cultum ceremoniasque obligatis. Ii namque condita & salita eorum capita, qui ob scelerum
multitudinem à judicibus extremo judicio fuerant affecti, pro Divis ostentabant; iis genua
submittebant, eos in Deorum numerum receptabant, ad illorum sepulchra pulvere sordibusque conspurcati.
Martyres igitur vocabantur, & ministri quidem & legati arbitrique precum apud Deos; cum fuerint
servilia infida & flagris pessimè subacta, quæ cicatrices scelerum ac nequitiæ vestigia corporibus
circumferunt; ejusmodi tamen Deos fert tellus. By these instances we may understand the invocation
of Saints was now of some standing in Egypt, and that it was already generally received and
practised there by the common people.

Thus Basil a Monk, who was made Bishop of Cæsarea in the year 369, and died in the year 378,
in his Oration on the Martyr Mamas, saith: Be ye mindful of the Martyr; as many of you as have
enjoyed him in your dreams, as many as in this place have been assisted by him in prayer, as
many of you as upon invoking him by name have had him present in your works, as many as he
has reduced into the way from wandering, as many as he has restored to health, as, many as
have had their dead children restored by him to life, as many as have had their lives prolonged
by him: and a little after, he thus expresses the universality of this superstition in the
regions of Cappadocia and Bithynia: At the memory of the Martyr, saith he, the whole region
is moved; at his festival the whole city is transported with joy. Nor do the kindred of the
rich turn aside to the sepulchres of their ancestors, but all go to the place of devotion.
Again, in the end of the Homily he prays, that God would preserve the Church, thus fortified
with the great towers of the Martyrs: and in his Oration on the forty Martyrs; These are they,
saith he, who obtaining our country, like certain towers afford us safety against our enemies.
Neither are they shut up in one place only, but being distributed are sent into many regions,
and adorn many countries.--You have often endeavoured, you have often laboured to find one
who might pray for you: here are forty, emitting one voice of prayer.--He that is in affliction
flies to these, he that rejoices has recourse to these: the first, that he may be freed from
evil, the last that he may continue in happiness. Here a woman praying for her children is
heard; she obtains a safe return for her husband from abroad, and health for him in his sickness.--O
ye common keepers of mankind, the best companions of our cares, suffragans and coadjutors of
our prayers, most powerful embassadors to God, &c. By all which it is manifest, that before
the year 378, the Orations and Sermons upon the Saints went much beyond the bounds of mere
oratorical flourishes, and that the common people in the East were already generally corrupted
by the Monks with Saint-worship.

Gregory Nazianzen a Monk, in his sixth Oration written A.C. 373, when he was newly made Bishop
of Sasima, saith: Let us purify ourselves to the Martyrs, or rather to the God of the Martyrs:
and a little after he calls the Martyrs mediators of obtaining an ascension or divinity. The
same year, in the end of his Oration upon Athanasius then newly dead, he thus invokes him:
Do thou look down upon us propitiously, and govern this people, as perfect adorers of the perfect
Trinity, which in the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, is contemplated and worshiped: if there
shall be peace, preserve me, and feed my flock with me; but if war, bring me home, place me
by thyself, and by those that are like thee; however great my request. And in the end of the
funeral Oration upon Basil, written A.C. 378, he thus addresses him: But thou, O divine and
sacred Head, look down upon us from heaven; and by thy prayers either take away that thorn
of the flesh which is given us by God for exercise, or obtain that we may bear it with courage,
and direct all our life to that which is most fitting for us. When we depart this life, receive
us there in your Tabernacles, that living together and beholding the holy and blessed Trinity
more purely and perfectly, whereof we have now but an imperfect view, we may there come to
the end of our desires, and receive this reward of the wars which we have waged or suffered:
and in his Oration upon Cyprian, not the Bishop of Carthage, but a Greek, he invokes him after
the same manner; and tells us also how a pious Virgin named Justina, was protected by invoking
the Virgin Mary, and how miracles were done by the ashes of Cyprian.

Gregory Nyssen, another eminent Monk and Bishop, in the life of Ephræm Syrus, tells how a certain
man returning from a far country, was in great danger, by reason all the ways were intercepted
by the armies of barbarous nations; but upon invoking Ephræm by name, and saying, Holy Ephræm
assist me, he escaped the danger, neglected the fear of death, and beyond his hope got safe
home. In the end of this Oration Gregory calls upon Ephræm after the following manner: But
thou, O Ephræm, assisting now at the divine altar, and sacrificing to the Prince of life, and
to the most holy Trinity, together with the Angels; remember us all, and obtain for us pardon
of our sins, that we may enjoy the eternal happiness of the kingdom of heaven. The same Gregory,
in his Oration on the Martyr Theodorus written A.C. 381, thus describes the power of that Martyr,
and the practice of the people. This Martyr, saith he, the last year quieted the barbarous
tempest, and put a stop to the horrid war of the fierce and cruel Scythians.--If any one is
permitted to carry away the dust with which the tomb is covered, wherein the body of the Martyr
rests; the dust is accepted as a gift, and gathered to be laid up as a thing of great price.
For to touch the reliques themselves, if any such prosperous fortune shall at any time happen;
how great a favour that is, and not to be obtained without the most earnest prayers, they know
well who have obtained it. For as a living and florid body, they who behold it embrace it,
applying to it the eyes, mouth, ears, and all the organs of sense; and then with affection
pouring tears upon the Martyr, as if he was whole and appeared to them: they offer prayers
with supplication, that he would intercede for them as an advocate, praying to him as an Officer
attending upon God, and invoking him as receiving gifts whenever he will. At length Gregory
concludes the Oration with this prayer: O Theodorus, we want many blessings; intercede and
beseech for thy country before the common King and Lord: for the country of the Martyr is the
place of his passion, and they are his citizens, brethren and kindred, who have him, defend,
adorn and honour him. We fear afflictions, we expect dangers: the wicked Scythians are not
far off, ready to make war against us. As a soldier fight for us, as a Martyr use liberty of
speech for thy fellow-servants. Pray for peace, that these publick meetings may not cease,
that the furious and wicked barbarian may not rage against the temples and altars, that the
profane and impious may not trample upon the holy things. We acknowledge it a benefit received
from thee, that we are preserved safe and entire, we pray for freedom from danger in time to
come: and if there shall be need of greater intercession and deprecation, call together the
choir of thy brethren the Martyrs, and in conjunction with them all intercede for us. Let the
prayers of many just ones attone for the sins of the multitudes and the people; exhort Peter,
excite Paul, and also John the divine and beloved disciple, that they may be sollicitous for
the Churches which they have erected, for which they have been in chains, for which they have
undergone dangers and deaths; that the worship of idols may not lift up its head against us,
that heresies may not spring up like thorns in the vineyard, that tares grown up may not choak
the wheat, that no rock void of the fatness of true dew may be against us, and render the fruitful
power of the word void of a root; but by the power of the prayers of thyself and thy companions,
O admirable man and eminent among the Martyrs, the commonwealth of Christians may become a
field of corn. The same Gregory Nyssen, in his sermon upon the death of Meletius Bishop of
Antioch, preached at Constantinople the same year, A.C. 381, before the Bishops of all the
East assembled in the second general Council, spake thus of Meletius. The Bridegroom, saith
he, is not taken from us: he stands in the midst of us, tho we do not see him: he is a Priest
in the most inward places, and face to face intercedes before God for us and the sins of the
people. This was no oratorical flourish, but Gregory's real opinion, as may be understood by
what we have cited out of him concerning Ephræm and Theodorus: and as Gregory preached this
before the Council of Constantinople, you may thence know, saith [6] Baronius, that he professed
what the whole Council, and therewith the whole Church of those parts believed, namely, that
the Saints in heaven offer prayers for us before God.

Ephræm Syrus, another eminent Monk, who was contemporary with Basil, and died the same year;
in the end of his Encomium or Oration upon Basil then newly dead, invokes him after this manner:
Intercede for me, a very miserable man; and recal me by thy intercessions, O father; thou who
art strong, pray for me who am weak; thou who art diligent, for me who am negligent; thou who
art chearful, for me who am heavy; thou who art wise, for me who am foolish. Thou who hast
treasured up a treasure of all virtues, be a guide to me who am empty of every good work. In
the beginning of his Encomium upon the forty Martyrs, written at the same time, he thus invokes
them: Help me therefore, O ye Saints, with your intercession; and O ye beloved, with your holy
prayers, that Christ by his grace may direct my tongue to speak, &c. and afterwards mentioning
the mother of one of these forty Martyrs, he concludes the Oration with this prayer: I entreat
thee, O holy, faithful, and blessed woman, pray for me to the Saints, saying; Intercede ye
that triumph in Christ, for the most little and miserable Ephræm, that he may find mercy, and
by the grace of Christ may be saved. Again, in his second Sermon or Oration on the praises
of the holy Martyrs of Christ, he thus addresses them: We entreat you most holy Martyrs, to
intercede with the Lord for us miserable sinners, beset with the filthiness of negligence,
that he would infuse his divine grace into us: and afterwards, near the end of the same discourse;
Now ye most holy men and glorious Martyrs of God, help me a miserable sinner with your prayers,
that in that dreadful hour I may obtain mercy, when the secrets of all hearts shall be made
manifest. I am to day become to you, most holy Martyrs of Christ, as it were an unprofitable
and unskilful cup-bearer: for I have delivered to the sons and brothers of your faith, a cup
of the excellent wine of your warfare, with the excellent table of your victory, replenished
with all sorts of dainties. I have endeavoured, with the whole affection and desire of my mind,
to recreate your fathers and brothers, kindred and relations, who daily frequent the table.
For behold they sing, and with exultation and jubilee glorify God, who has crown'd your virtues,
by setting on your most sacred heads incorruptible and celestial crowns; they with excessive
joy stand about the sacred reliques of your martyrdoms, wishing for a blessing, and desiring
to bear away holy medicines both for the body and the mind. As good disciples and faithful
ministers of our benign Lord and Saviour, bestow therefore a blessing on them all: and on me
also, tho weak and feeble, who having received strength by your merits and intercessions, have
with the whole devotion of my mind, sung a hymn to your praise and glory before your holy reliques.
Wherefore I beseech you stand before the throne of the divine Majesty for me Ephræm, a vile
and miserable sinner, that by your prayers I may deserve to obtain salvation, and with you
enjoy eternal felicity by the grace and benignity and mercy of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ,
to whom with the Father and Holy Ghost be praise, honour and glory for ever and ever. Amen.

By what has been cited out of Basil, the two Gregories and Ephræm, we may understand that Saint-worship
was established among the Monks and their admirers in Egypt, Phoenicia, Syria and Cappadocia,
before the year 378, this being the year in which Basil and Ephræm died. Chrysostom was not
much later; he preached at Antioch almost all the time of Theodosius the great, and in his
Sermons are many exhortations to this sort of superstition, as may be seen in the end of his
Orations on S. Julia, on St. Pelagia, on the Martyr Ignatius, on the Egyptian Martyrs, on Fate
and Providence, on the Martyrs in general, on St. Berenice and St. Prosdoce, on Juventinus
and Maximus, on the name of Coemetery, &c. Thus in his Sermon on Berenice and Prosdoce: Perhaps,
saith he, you are inflamed with no small love towards these Martyrs; therefore with this ardour
let us fall down before their reliques, let us embrace their coffins. For the coffins of the
Martyrs have great virtue, even as the bones of the Martyrs have great power. Nor let us only
on the day of this festival, but also on other days apply to them, invoke them, and beseech
them to be our patrons: for they have great power and efficacy, not only whilst alive, but
also after death; and much more after death than before. For now they bear the marks or brands
of Christ; and when they shew these marks, they can obtain all things of the King. Seeing therefore
they abound with such efficacy, and have so much friendship with him; we also, when by continual
attendance and perpetual visitation of them we have insinuated ourselves into their familiarity,
may by their assistance obtain the mercy of God.

Constantinople was free from these superstitions till Gregory Nazianzen came thither A.D. 379;
but in a few years it was also inflamed with it. Ruffinus [7] tells us, that when the Emperor
Theodosius was setting out against the tyrant Eugenius, which was in the year 394, he went
about with the Priests and people to all the places of prayer; lay prostrate in haircloth before
the shrines of the Martyrs and Apostles, and pray'd for assistance by the intercession of the
Saints. Sozomen [8] adds, that when the Emperor was marched seven miles from Constantinople
against Eugenius, he went into a Church which he had built to John the Baptist, and invoked
the Baptist for his assistance. Chrysostom [9] says: He that is clothed in purple, approaches
to embrace these sepulchres; and laying aside his dignity, stands supplicating the Saints to
intercede for him with God: and he who goes crowned with a diadem, offers his prayers to the
tent-maker and the fisher-man as his Protestors. And in [10] another place: The cities run
together to the sepulchres of the Martyrs, and the people are inflamed with the love of them.

This practice of sending reliques from place to place for working miracles, and thereby inflaming
the devotion of the nations towards the dead Saints and their reliques, and setting up the
religion of invoking their souls, lasted only till the middle of the reign of the Emperor Theodosius
the great; for he then prohibited it by the following Edict. Humatum corpus, nemo ad alterum
locum transferat; nemo Martyrem distrahat, nemo mercetur: Habeant verò in potestate, si quolibet
in loco sanctorum est aliquis conditus, pro ejus veneratione, quod Martyrium vocandum sit,
addant quod voluerint fabricarum. Dat. iv. Kal. Mart. Constantinopoli, Honorio nob. puero &
Euodio Coss. A.C. 386. After this they filled the fields and high-ways with altars erected
to Martyrs, which they pretended to discover by dreams and revelations: and this occasioned
the making the fourteenth Canon of the fifth Council of Carthage, A.C. 398. Item placuit, ut
altaria, quæ passim per agros aut vias, tanquam memoriæ Martyrum constituuntur, in quibus nullum
corpus aut reliquiæ Martyrum conditæ probantur, ab Episcopis, qui illis locis præsunt, si fieri
potest, evertantur. Si autem hoc propter tumultus populares non sinitur, plebes tamen admoneantur,
ne illa loca frequentent, ut qui rectè sapiunt, nullâ ibi superstitione devincti teneantur.
Et omnino nulla memoria Martyrum probabiliter acceptetur, nisi aut ibi corpus aut aliquæ certæ
reliquiæ sint, aut ubi origo alicujus habitationis, vel possessionis, vel passionis fidelissima
origine traditur. Nam quæ per somnia, & per inanes quasi revelationes quorumlibet hominum ubique
constituuntur altaria, omnimodè reprobentur. These altars were for invoking the Saints or Martyrs
buried or pretended to be buried under them. First they filled the Churches in all places with
the reliques or pretended reliques of the Martyrs, for invoking them in the Churches; and then
they filled the fields and high-ways with altars, for invoking them every where: and this new
religion was set up by the Monks in all the Greek Empire before the expedition of the Emperor
Theodosius against Eugenius, and I think before his above-mentioned Edict, A.C. 386.

The same religion of worshiping Mahuzzims quickly spred into the Western Empire also: but Daniel
in this Prophecy describes chiefly the things done among the nations comprehended in the body
of his third Beast.

Notes to Chap. XIV.

[1] Chap. xi. 38, 39

[2] Orat. de vita Greg. Thaumaturg. T. 3. p. 574.

[3] Vide Hom. 47. in. S. Julian.

[4] Epist. 27. ad Eustochium.

[5] Edit. Frontonis Ducæi, Tom. 1.

[6] Ad. an. 381, Sect. 41.

[7] Hist. Eccl. l. 2. c. 23.

[8] L. 4. c. 24.

[9] Hom. 66. ad. populum, circa finem. & Hom. 8, 27. in Matth. Hom. 42, 43. in Gen. Hom. 1.
in 1 Thess.

[10] Exposit. in Psal. 114. sub finem.

       *       *       *       *       *

The end of the first Part.

Irenæus introduced an opinion that the Apocalypse was written in the time of Domitian; but
then he also postponed the writing of some others of the sacred books, and was to place the
Apocalypse after them: he might perhaps have heard from his master Polycarp that he had received
this book from John about the time of Domitian's death; or indeed John might himself at that
time have made a new publication of it, from whence Irenæus might imagine it was then but newly
written. Eusebius in his Chronicle and Ecclesiastical History follows Irenoeus; but afterwards
[1] in his Evangelical Demonstrations, he conjoins the banishment of John into Patmos, with
the deaths of Peter and Paul: and so do [2] Tertullian and Pseudo-Prochorus, as well as the
first author, whoever he was, of that very antient fable, that John was put by Nero into a
vessel of hot oil, and coming out unhurt, was banished by him into Patmos. Tho this story be
no more than a fiction yet was it founded on a tradition of the first churches, that John was
banished into Patmos in the days of Nero. Epiphanius represents the Gospel of John as written
in the time of Domitian, and the Apocalypse even before that of Nero. [3] Arethas in the beginning
of his Commentary quotes the opinion of Irenæus from Eusebius, but follows it not: for he afterwards
affirms the Apocalypse was written before the destruction of Jerusalem, and that former commentators
had expounded the sixth seal of that destruction.

With the opinion of the first Commentators agrees the tradition of the Churches of Syria, preserved
to this day in the title of the Syriac Version of the Apocalypse, which title is this: The
Revelation which was made to John the Evangelist by God in the Island Patmos, into which he
was banished by Nero the Cæsar. The fame is confirmed by a story told by [4] Eusebius out of
Clemens Alexandrinus, and other antient authors, concerning a youth, whom John some time after
his return from Patmos committed to the care of the Bishop of a certain city. The Bishop educated,
instructed, and at length baptized him; but then remitting of his care, the young man thereupon
got into ill company, and began by degrees first to revel and grow vitious, then to abuse and
spoil those he met in the night; and at last grew so desperate, that his companions turning
a band of high-way men, made him their Captain: and, saith [5] Chrysostom, he continued their
Captain a long time. At length John returning to that city, and hearing what was done, rode
to the thief; and, when he out of reverence to his old master fled, John rode after him, recalled
him, and restored him to the Church. This is a story of many years, and requires that John
should have returned from Patmos rather at the death of Nero than at that of Domitian; because
between the death of Domitian and that of John there were but two years and an half; and John
in his old age was [6] so infirm as to be carried to Church, dying above 90 years old, and
therefore could not be then suppos'd able to ride after the thief.

This opinion is further supported by the allusions in the Apocalypse to the Temple and Altar,
and holy City, as then standing; and to the Gentiles, who were soon after to tread under foot
the holy City and outward Court. 'Tis confirmed also by the style of the Apocalypse itself,
which is fuller of Hebraisms than his Gospel. For thence it may be gathered, that it was written
when John was newly come out of Judea, where he had been used to the Syriac tongue; and that
he did not write his Gospel, till by long converse with the Asiatick Greeks he had left off
most of the Hebraisms. It is confirmed also by the many false Apocalypses, as those of Peter,
Paul, Thomas, Stephen, Elias and Cerinthus, written in imitation of the true one. For as the
many false Gospels, false Acts, and false Epistles were occasioned by true ones; and the writing
many false Apocalypses, and ascribing them to Apostles and Prophets, argues that there was
a true Apostolic one in great request with the first Christians: so this true one may well
be suppos'd to have been written early, that there may be room in the Apostolic age for the
writing of so many false ones afterwards, and fathering them upon Peter, Paul, Thomas and others,
who were dead before John. Caius, who was contemporary with Tertullian, [7] tells us that Cerinthus
wrote his Revelations as a great Apostle, and pretended the visions were shewn him by Angels,
asserting a millennium of carnal pleasures at Jerusalem after the resurrection; so that his
Apocalypse was plainly written in imitation of John's: and yet he lived so early, that [8]
he resisted the Apostles at Jerusalem in or before the first year of Claudius, that is, 26
years before the death of Nero, and [9] died before John.

These reasons may suffice for determining the time; and yet there is one more, which to considering
men may seem a good reason, to others not. I'll propound it, and leave it to every man's judgment.
The Apocalypse seems to be alluded to in the Epistles of Peter and that to the Hebrews and
therefore to have been written before them. Such allusions in the Epistle to the Hebrews, I
take to be the discourses concerning the High-Priest in the heavenly Tabernacle, who is both
Priest and King, as was Melchisedec; and those concerning the word of God, with the sharp two-edged
sword, the [Greek: sabbatismos], or millennial rest, the earth whose end is to be burned, suppose
by the lake of fire, the judgment and fiery indignation which shall devour the adversaries,
the heavenly City which hath foundations whose builder and maker is God, the cloud of witnesses,
mount Sion, heavenly Jerusalem, general assembly, spirits of just men made perfect, viz. by
the resurrection, and the shaking of heaven and earth, and removing them, that the new heaven,
new earth and new kingdom which cannot be shaken, may remain. In the first of Peter occur these:
[10] The Revelation of Jesus Christ, twice or thrice repeated; [11] the blood of Christ as
of a Lamb foreordained before the foundation of the world; [12] the spiritual building in heaven,
1 Pet. ii. 5. an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled and that fadeth not away, reserved
in heaven for us, who are kept unto the salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time, 1
Pet. i. 4, 5. [13] the royal Priesthood, [14] the holy Priesthood, [15] the judgment beginning
at the house of God, and [16] the Church at Babylon. These are indeed obscurer allusions; but
the second Epistle, from the 19th verse of the first Chapter to the end, seems to be a continued
Commentary upon the Apocalypse. Daniel [17] himself professes that he understood not his own
Prophecies; and therefore the Churches were not to expect the interpretation from their Prophet
John, but to study the Prophecies themselves. These, as natural brute beasts, the ten-horned
beast and two-horned beast, or false Prophet, made to be taken and destroyed, in the lake of
fire, blaspheme the things they understand not:--they count it pleasure to riot in the day-time--sporting
themselves with their own deceivings, while they feast [26] with you, having eyes full of an
[27] Adulteress: for the kingdoms of the beast live deliciously with the great Whore, and the
nations are made drunk with the wine of her fornication. These are, not fountains of living
water, but wells without water; not such clouds of Saints as the two witnesses ascend in, but
clouds that are carried with a tempest, &c. Thus does the author of this Epistle spend all
the second Chapter in describing the qualities of the Apocalyptic Beasts and false Prophet:
and then in the third he goes on to describe their destruction more fully, and the future kingdom.
He saith, that because the coming of Christ should be long deferred, they should scoff, saying,
where is the promise of his coming? Then he describes the sudden coming of the day of the Lord
upon them, as a thief in the night, which is the Apocalyptic phrase; and the millennium, or
thousand years, which are with God but as a day; the passing away of the old heavens and earth,
by a conflagration in the lake of fire, and our looking for new heavens and a new earth, wherein
dwelleth righteousness.

Seeing therefore Peter and John were Apostles of the circumcision, it seems to me that they
staid with their Churches in Judea and Syria till the Romans made war upon their nation, that
is, till the twelfth year of Nero; that they then followed the main body of their flying Churches
into Asia, and that Peter went thence by Corinth to Rome; that the Roman Empire looked upon
those Churches as enemies, because Jews by birth; and therefore to prevent insurrections, secured
their leaders, and banished John into Patmos. It seems also probable to me that the Apocalypse
was there composed, and that soon after the Epistle to the Hebrews and those of Peter were
written to these Churches, with reference to this Prophecy as what they were particularly concerned
in. For it appears by these Epistles, that they were written in times of general affliction
and tribulation under the heathens, and by consequence when the Empire made war upon the Jews;
for till then the heathens were at peace with the Christian Jews, as well as with the rest.
The Epistle to the Hebrews, since it mentions Timothy as related to those Hebrews, must be
written to them after their flight into Asia, where Timothy was Bishop; and by consequence
after the war began, the Hebrews in Judea being strangers to Timothy. Peter seems also to call
Rome Babylon, as well with respect to the war made upon Judea, and the approaching captivity,
like that under old Babylon, as with respect to that name in the Apocalypse: and in writing
to the strangers scattered thro'out Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia and Bithynia, he seems
to intimate that they were the strangers newly scattered by the Roman wars; for those were
the only strangers there belonging to his care.

This account of things agrees best with history when duly rectified. For [29] Justin and [30]
Irenæus say, that Simon Magus came to Rome in the reign of Claudius, and exercised juggling
tricks there. Pseudo-Clemens adds, that he endeavoured there to fly, but broke his neck thro'
the prayers of Peter. Whence [31] Eusebius, or rather his interpolator Jerom, has recorded,
that Peter came to Rome in the second year of Claudius: but [32] Cyril Bishop of Jerusalem,
Philastrius, Sulpitius, Prosper, Maximus Taurinensis, and Hegesippus junior, place this victory
of Peter in the time of Nero. Indeed the antienter tradition was, that Peter came to Rome in
the days of this Emperor, as may be seen in [33] Lactantius. Chrysostom [34] tells us, that
the Apostles continued long in Judea, and that then being driven out by the Jews they went
to the Gentiles. This dispersion was in the first year of the Jewish war, when the Jews, as
Josephus tells us, began to be tumultuous and violent in all places. For all agree that the
Apostles were dispersed into several regions at once; and Origen has set down the time, [35]
telling us that in the beginning of the Judaic war, the Apostles and disciples of our Lord
were scattered into all nations; Thomas into Parthia, Andrew into Scythia, John into Asia,
and Peter first into Asia, where he preacht to the dispersion, and thence into Italy. [36]
Dionysius Corinthius saith, that Peter went from Asia by Corinth to Rome, and all antiquity
agrees that Peter and Paul were martyred there in the end of Nero's reign. Mark went with Timothy
to Rome, 2 Tim. iv. 11. Colos. iv. 10. Sylvanus was Paul's assistant; and by the companions
of Peter, mentioned in his first Epistle, we may know that he wrote from Rome; and the Antients
generally agree, that in this Epistle he understood Rome by Babylon. His second Epistle was
writ to the same dispersed strangers with the first, 2 Pet. iii. 1. and therein he saith, that
Paul had writ of the same things to them, and also in his other Epistles, ver. 15, 16. Now
as there is no Epistle of Paul to these strangers besides that to the Hebrews, so in this Epistle,
chap. x. 11, 12. we find at large all those things which Peter had been speaking of, and here
refers to; particularly the passing away of the old heavens and earth, and establishing an
inheritance immoveable, with an exhortation to grace, because God, to the wicked, is a consuming
fire, Heb. xii. 25, 26, 28, 29.

Having determined the time of writing the Apocalyse, I need not say much about the truth of
it, since it was in such request with the first ages, that many endeavoured to imitate it,
by feigning Apocalypses under the Apostles names; and the Apostles themselves, as I have just
now shewed, studied it, and used its phrases; by which means the style of the Epistle to the
Hebrews became more mystical than that of Paul's other Epistles, and the style of John's Gospel
more figurative and majestical than that of the other Gospels. I do not apprehend that Christ
was called the word of God in any book of the New Testament written before the Apocalypse;
and therefore am of opinion, the language was taken from this Prophecy, as were also many other
phrases in this Gospel, such as those of Christ's being the light which enlightens the world,
the lamb of God which taketh away the sins of the world, the bridegroom, he that testifieth,
he that came down from heaven, the Son of God, &c. Justin Martyr, who within thirty years after
John's death became a Christian, writes expresly that a certain man among the Christians whose
name was John, one of the twelve Apostles of Christ, in the Revelation which was shewed him,
prophesied that those who believed in Christ should live a thousand years at Jerusalem. And
a few lines before he saith: But I, and as many as are Christians, in all things right in their
opinions, believe both that there shall be a resurrection of the flesh, and a thousand years
life at Jerusalem built, adorned and enlarged. Which is as much as to say, that all true Christians
in that early age received this Prophecy: for in all ages, as many as believed the thousand
years, received the Apocalypse as the foundation of their opinion: and I do not know one instance
to the contrary. Papias Bishop of Hierapolis, a man of the Apostolic age, and one of John's
own disciples, did not only teach the doctrine of the thousand years, but also [37] asserted
the Apocalypse as written by divine inspiration. Melito, who flourished next after Justin,
[38] wrote a commentary upon this Prophecy; and he, being Bishop of Sardis one of the seven
Churches, could neither be ignorant of their tradition about it, nor impose upon them. Irenæus,
who was contemporary with Melito, wrote much upon it, and said, that the number 666 was in
all the antient and approved copies; and that he had it also confirmed to him by those who
had seen John face to face, meaning no doubt his master Polycarp for one. At the same time
[39] Theophilus Bishop of Antioch asserted it, and so did Tertullian, Clemens Alexandrinus,
and Origen soon after; and their contemporary Hippolytus the Martyr, Metropolitan of the Arabians,
[40] wrote a commentary upon it. All these were antient men, flourishing within a hundred and
twenty years after John's death, and of greatest note in the Churches of those times. Soon
after did Victorinus Pictaviensis write another commentary upon it; and he lived in the time
of Dioclesian. This may surely suffice to shew how the Apocalypse was received and studied
in the first ages: and I do not indeed find any other book of the New Testament so strongly
attested, or commented upon so early as this. The Prophecy said: Blessed is he that readeth,
and they that hear the words of this Prophecy, and keep the things which are written therein.
This animated the first Christians to study it so much, till the difficulty made them remit,
and comment more upon the other books of the New Testament. This was the state of the Apocalypse,
till the thousand years being misunderstood, brought a prejudice against it: and Dionysius
of Alexandria, noting how it abounded with barbarisms, that is with Hebraisms, promoted that
prejudice so far, as to cause many Greeks in the fourth century to doubt of the book. But whilst
the Latins, and a great part of the Greeks, always retained the Apocalypse, and the rest doubted
only out of prejudice, it makes nothing against its authority.

This Prophecy is called the Revelation, with respect to the scripture of truth, which Daniel
[41] was commanded to shut up and seal, till the time of the end. Daniel sealed it until the
time of the end; and until that time comes, the Lamb is opening the seals: and afterwards the
two Witnesses prophesy out of it a long time in sack-cloth, before they ascend up to heaven
in a cloud. All which is as much as to say, that these Prophecies of Daniel and John should
not be understood till the time of the end: but then some should prophesy out of them in an
afflicted and mournful state for a long time, and that but darkly, so as to convert but few.
But in the very end, the Prophecy should be so far interpreted as to convince many. Then, saith
Daniel, many shall run to and fro, and knowledge shall be encreased. For the Gospel must be
preached in all nations before the great tribulation, and end of the world. The palm-bearing
multitude, which come out of this great tribulation, cannot be innumerable out of all nations,
unless they be made so by the preaching of the Gospel before it comes. There must be a stone
cut out of a mountain without hands, before it can fall upon the toes of the Image, and become
a great mountain and fill the earth. An Angel must fly thro' the midst of heaven with the everlasting
Gospel to preach to all nations, before Babylon falls, and the Son of man reaps his harvest.
The two Prophets must ascend up to heaven in a cloud, before the kingdoms of this world become
the kingdoms of Christ. [43] Blessed is he that readeth, and they that hear the words of this
Prophecy, and keep those things which are written therein.

The folly of Interpreters has been, to foretel times and things by this Prophecy, as if God
designed to make them Prophets. By this rashness they have not only exposed themselves, but
brought the Prophecy also into contempt. The design of God was much otherwise. He gave this
and the Prophecies of the Old Testament, not to gratify men's curiosities by enabling them
to foreknow things, but that after they were fulfilled they might be interpreted by the event,
and his own Providence, not the Interpreters, be then manifested thereby to the world. For
the event of things predicted many ages before, will then be a convincing argument that the
world is governed by providence. For as the few and obscure Prophecies concerning Christ's
first coming were for setting up the Christian religion, which all nations have since corrupted;
so the many and clear Prophecies concerning the things to be done at Christ's second coming,
are not only for predicting but also for effecting a recovery and re-establishment of the long-lost
truth, and setting up a kingdom wherein dwells righteousness. The event will prove the Apocalypse;
and this Prophecy, thus proved and understood, will open the old Prophets, and all together
will make known the true religion, and establish it. For he that will understand the old Prophets,
must begin with this; but the time is not yet come for understanding them perfectly, because
the main revolution predicted in them is not yet come to pass. 15. There is already so much
of the Prophecy fulfilled, that as many as will take pains in this study, may see sufficient
instances of God's providence: but then the signal revolutions predicted by all the holy Prophets,
will at once both turn mens eyes upon considering the predictions, and plainly interpret them.
Till then we must content ourselves with interpreting what hath been already fulfilled.

Amongst the Interpreters of the last age there is scarce one of note who hath not made some
discovery worth knowing; and thence I seem to gather that God is about opening these mysteries.
The success of others put me upon considering it; and if I have done any thing which may be
useful to following writers, I have my design.

Notes to Chap. I.

[1] Dem. Evang. l. 3.

[2] Vid. Pamelium in notis ad Tertull. de Præscriptionbus, n. 215 & Hieron l. 1. contra Jovinianum,
c. 14. Edit.Erasmi.

[3] Areth. c. 18, 19.

[4] Hist. Eccl. l. 3. c. 23.

[5] Chrysost. ad Theodorum lapsum.

[6] Hieron. in Epist. ad Gal. l. 3. c. 6.

[7] Apud Euseb. Eccl. Hist. l. 3. c. 28. Edit. Valesii.

[8] Epiphan. Hæres. 28.

[9] Hieron. adv. Lucif.

[10] 1 Pet. i. 7, 13. iv. 13. & v. 1.

[11] Apoc. xiii. 8.

[12] Apoc. xxi.

[13] Apoc. i. 6. & v. 10.

[14] Apoc. xx. 6.

[15] Apoc. xx. 4, 12.

[16] Apoc. xvii.

[17] Dan. viii. 15, 16, 27. & xii. 8, 9.

[18] [Greek: aselgeias], in many of the best MSS.

[19] Apoc. xiii. 7, 12.

[20] Apoc. xiii. 1, 5, 6.

[21] Apoc. xviii. 12, 13.

[22] Apoc. xix. 20.

[23] Apoc. xxi. 3, 4.

[24] Apoc. ix. 21. and xvii. 2.

[25] Apoc. xiii. 6.

[26] Apoc. xviii. 3, 7, 9.

[27] [Greek: moichalidos].

[28] Apoc. ii. 14.

[29] Apol. ad Antonin. Pium.

[30] Hæres. l. 1. c. 20. Vide etiam Tertullianum, Apol. c. 13.

[31] Euseb. Chron.

[32] Cyril Catech. 6. Philastr. de hæres. cap. 30. Sulp. Hist. l. 2. Prosper de promiss. dimid.
temp. cap. 13. Maximus serm. 5. in Natal. Apost. Hegesip. l. 2. c. 2.

[33] Lactant de mortib. Persec. c. 2.

[34] Hom. 70. in Matt. c. 22.

[35] Apud Euseb. Eccl. Hist. l. 2. c. 25.

[36] Euseb. Hist. l. 2. c. 25.

[37] Arethas in Proæm. comment. in Apoc.

[38] Euseb. Hist. l. 4. cap. 26. Hieron.

[39] Euseb. Hist. l. 4. c. 24.

[40] Hieron.

[41] Dan. x. 21. xii. 4, 9.

[42] Dan. xii. 4, 10.

[43] Apoc. i. 3.

The Apocalypse of John is written in the same style and language with the Prophecies of Daniel,
and hath the same relation to them which they have to one another, so that all of them together
make but one complete Prophecy; and in like manner it consists of two parts, an introductory
Prophecy, and an Interpretation thereof.

The Prophecy is distinguish'd into seven successive parts, by the opening of the seven seals
of the book which Daniel was commanded to seal up: and hence it is called the Apocalypse or
Revelation of Jesus Christ. The time of the seventh seal is sub-divided into eight successive
parts by the silence in heaven for half an hour, and the sounding of seven trumpets successively:
and the seventh trumpet sounds to the battle of the great day of God Almighty, whereby the
kingdoms of this world become the kingdoms of the Lord and of his Christ, and those are destroyed
that destroyed the earth.

The Interpretation begins with the words, And the temple of God was opened in heaven, and there
was seen in his temple the Ark of his Testament: and it continues to the end of the Prophecy.
The Temple is the scene of the visions, and the visions in the Temple relate to the feast of
the seventh month: for the feasts of the Jews were typical of things to come. The Passover
related to the first coming of Christ, and the feasts of the seventh month to his second coming:
his first coming being therefore over before this Prophecy was given, the feasts of the seventh
month are here only alluded unto.

On the first day of that month, in the morning, the High-Priest dressed the lamps: and in allusion
hereunto, this Prophecy begins with a vision of one like the Son of man in the High-Priest's
habit, appearing as it were in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks, or over against
the midst of them, dressing the lamps, which appeared like a rod of seven stars in his right
hand: and this dressing was perform'd by the sending seven Epistles to the Angels or Bishops
of the seven Churches of Asia, which in the primitive times illuminated the Temple or Church
Catholick. These Epistles contain admonitions against the approaching Apostacy, and therefore
relate to the times when the Apostacy began to work strongly, and before it prevailed. It began
to work in the Apostles days, and was to continue working till the man of sin should be revealed.
It began to work in the disciples of Simon, Menander, Carpocrates, Cerinthas, and such sorts
of men as had imbibed the metaphysical philosophy of the Gentiles and Cabalistical Jews, and
were thence called Gnosticks. John calls them Antichrists, saying that in his days there were
many Antichrists. But these being condemned by the Apostles, and their immediate disciples,
put the Churches in no danger during the opening of the first four seals. The visions at the
opening of these seals relate only to the civil affairs of the heathen Roman Empire. So long
the Apostolic traditions prevailed, and preserved the Church in its purity: and therefore the
affairs of the Church do not begin to be considered in this Prophecy before the opening of
the fifth seal. She began then to decline, and to want admonitions; and therefore is admonished
by these Epistles, till the Apostacy prevailed and took place, which was at the opening of
the seventh seal. The admonitions therefore in these seven Epistles relate to the state of
the Church in the times of the fifth and sixth seals. At the opening of the fifth seal, the
Church is purged from hypocrites by a great persecution. At the opening of the sixth, that
which letted is taken out of the way, namely the heathen Roman Empire. At the opening of the
seventh, the man of sin is revealed. And to these times the seven Epistles relate.

The seven Angels, to whom these Epistles were written, answer to the seven Amarc-holim, who
were Priests and chief Officers of the Temple, and had jointly the keys of the gates of the
Temple, with those of the Treasuries, and the direction, appointment and oversight of all things
in the Temple.

After the lamps were dresed, John saw the door of the Temple opened; and by the voice as it
were of a trumpet, was called up to the eastern gate of the great court, to see the visions:
and behold a throne was set, viz. the mercy-seat upon the Ark of the Testament, which the Jews
respected as the throne of God between the Cherubims, Exod. xxv. 2. Psal. xcix. 1. And he that
sat on it was to look upon like Jasper and Sardine stone, that is, of an olive colour, the
people of Judea being of that colour. And, the Sun being then in the East, a rainbow was about
the throne, the emblem of glory. And round about the throne were four and twenty seats; answering
to the chambers of the four and twenty Princes of the Priests, twelve on the south side, and
twelve on the north side of the Priests Court. And upon the seats were four and twenty Elders
sitting, clothed in white rayment, with crowns on their heads; representing the Princes of
the four and twenty courses of the Priests clothed in linen. And out of the throne proceeded
lightnings and thunderings, and voices, viz. the flashes of the fire upon the Altar at the
morning-sacrifice, and the thundering voices of those that sounded the trumpets, and sung at
the Eastern gate of the Priests Court; for these being between John and the throne appeared
to him as proceeding from the throne. And there were seven lamps of fire burning, in the Temple,
before the throne, which are the seven spirits of God, or Angels of the seven Churches, represented
in the beginning of this Prophecy by seven stars. And before the throne was a sea of glass
clear as chrystal; the brazen sea between the porch of the Temple and the Altar, filled with
clear water. And in the midst of the throne, and round about the throne, were four Beasts full
of eyes before and behind: that is, one Beast before the throne and one behind it, appearing
to John as in the midst of the throne, and one on either side in the circle about it, to represent
by the multitude of their eyes the people standing in the four sides of the peoples court.
And the first Beast was like a lion, and the second was like a calf, and the third had the
face of a man, and the fourth was like a flying eagle. The people of Israel in the wilderness
encamped round about the tabernacle, and on the east side were three tribes under the standard
of Judah, on the west were three tribes under the standard of Ephraim, on the south were three
tribes under the standard of Reuben, and on the north were three tribes under the standard
of Dan, Numb. ii. And the standard of Judah was a Lion, that of Ephraim an Ox, that of Reuben
a Man, and that of Dan an Eagle, as the Jews affirm. Whence were framed the hieroglyphicks
of Cherubims and Seraphims, to represent the people of Israel. A Cherubim had one body with
four faces, the faces of a Lion, an Ox, a Man and an Eagle, looking to the four winds of heaven,
without turning about, as in Ezekiel's vision, chap. i. And four Seraphims had the same four
faces with four bodies, one face to every body. The four Beasts are therefore four Seraphims
standing in the four sides of the peoples court; the first in the eastern side with the head
of a Lion, the second in the western side with the head of an Ox, the third in the southern
side with the head of a Man, the fourth in the northern side with the head of an Eagle: and
all four signify together the twelve tribes of Israel, out of whom the hundred forty and four
thousand were sealed, Apoc. vii. 4. And the four Beasts had each of them six wings, two to
a tribe, in all twenty and four wings, answering to the twenty and four stations of the people.
And they were full of eyes within, or under their wings. And they rest not day and night, or
at the morning and evening-sacrifices, saying, holy, holy, holy Lord God Almighty, which was,
and is, and is to come. These animals are therefore the Seraphims, which appeared to Isaiah
[1] in a vision like this of the Apocalypse. For there also the Lord sat upon a throne in the
temple; and the Seraphims each with six wings cried, Holy, holy, holy Lord God of hosts. At
the morning and evening-sacrifices, so soon as the sacrifice was laid upon the Altar, and the
drink-offering began to be poured out, the trumpets sounded, and the Levites sang by course
three times; and every time when the trumpets sounded, the people fell down and worshiped.
Three times therefore did the people worship; to express which number, the Beasts cry Holy,
holy, holy: and the song being ended, the people prayed standing, till the solemnity was finished.
In the mean time the Priests went into the Temple, and there fell down before him that sat
upon the throne, and worshiped. [2] And none was found worthy to open the book but the Lamb
of God. And lo, in the midst of the throne and of the four Beasts, and in the midst of the
Elders, that is, at the foot of the Altar, stood a lamb as it had been slain, the morning-sacrifice;
having seven horns, which are the seven Churches, and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits
of God sent forth into all the earth. The Beasts and Elders therefore represent the primitive
Christians of all nations; and the worship of these Christians in their Churches is here represented
under the form of worshiping God and the Lamb in the Temple: God for his benefaction in creating
all things, and the Lamb for his benefaction in redeeming us with his blood: God as sitting
upon the throne and living for ever, and the Lamb as exalted above all by the merits of his
death. And the four Beasts said, Amen. And the four and twenty Elders fell down and worshiped
him that liveth for ever and ever. This was the worship of the primitive Christians.

It was the custom for the High-Priest, seven days before the fast of the seventh month, to
continue constantly in the Temple, and study the book of the Law, that he might be perfect
in it against the day of expiation; wherein the service, which was various and intricate, was
wholly to be performed by himself; part of which service was reading the Law to the people:
and to promote his studying it, there were certain Priests appointed by the Sanhedrim to be
with him those seven days in one of his chambers in the Temple, and there to discourse with
him about the Law, and read it to him, and put him in mind of reading and studying it himself.
This his opening and reading the Law those seven days, is alluded unto in the Lamb's opening
the seals. We are to conceive that those seven days begin in the evening before each day; for
the Jews began their day in the evening, and that the solemnity of the fast begins in the morning
of the seventh day.

The seventh seal was therefore opened on the day of expiation, and then there was silence in
heaven for half an hour. The custom was on other days, for one of the Priests to take fire
from the great Altar in a silver Censer; but on this day, for the High-Priest to take fire
from the great Altar in a golden Censer: and when he was come down from the great Altar, he
took incense from one of the Priests who brought it to him, and went with it to the golden
Altar: and while he offered the incense, the people prayed without in silence, which is the
silence in heaven for half an hour. On other days there was a certain measure of incense for
the golden Altar: on this day there was a greater quantity for both the Altar and the most
holy Place, and therefore it is called much incense. After this the Angel took the Censer,
and filled it with fire from the great Altar, and cast it into the earth; that is, by the hands
of the Priests who belong to his mystical body, he cast it to the earth without the Temple,
for burning the Goat which was the Lord's lot. And at this and other concomitant sacrifices,
until the evening-sacrifice was ended, there were voices, and thundrings, and lightnings, and
an earthquake; that is, the voice of the High-Priest reading the Law to the people, and other
voices and thundrings from the trumpets and temple-musick at the sacrifices, and lightnings
from the fire of the Altar.

The solemnity of the day of expiation being finished, the seven Angels found their trumpets
at the great sacrifices of the seven days of the feast of tabernacles; and at the same sacrifices,
the seven thunders utter their voices, which are the musick of the Temple, and singing of the
Levites, intermixed with the soundings of the trumpets: and the seven Angels pour out their
vials of wrath, which are the drink-offerings of those sacrifices. This sealing alludes to
a tradition of the Jews, that upon the day of expiation all the people of Israel are sealed
up in the books of life and death. For the Jews in their Talmud [4] tell us, that in the beginning
of every new year, or first day of the month Tisri, the seventh month of the sacred year, three
books are opened in judgment; the book of life, in which the names of those are written who
are perfectly just; the book of death, in which the names of those are written who are Atheists
or very wicked; and a third book, of those whose judgment is suspended till the day of expiation,
and whose names are not written in the book of life or death before that day. The first ten
days of this month they call the penitential days; and all these days they fast and pray very
much, and are very devout, that on the tenth day their sins may be remitted, and their names
may be written in the book of life; which day is therefore called the day of expiation. And
upon this tenth day, in returning home from the Synagogues, they say to one another, God the
creator seal you to a good year. For they conceive that the books are now sealed up, and that
the sentence of God remains unchanged henceforward to the end of the year. The same thing is
signified by the two Goats, upon whose foreheads the High-Priest yearly, on the day of expiation,
lays the two lots inscribed, For God and For Azazel; God's lot signifying the people who are
sealed with the name of God in their foreheads; and the lot Azazel, which was sent into the
wilderness, representing those who receive the mark and name of the Beast, and go into the
wilderness with the great Whore.

The servants of God being therefore sealed in the day of expiation, we may conceive that this
sealing is synchronal to the visions which appear upon opening the seventh seal; and that when
the Lamb had opened six of the seals and seen the visions relating to the inside of the sixth,
he looked on the backside of the seventh leaf, and then saw the four Angels holding the four
winds of heaven, and another Angel ascending from the East with the seal of God. Conceive also,
that the Angels which held the four winds were the first four of the seven Angels, who upon
opening the seventh seal were seen standing before God; and that upon their holding the winds,
there was silence in heaven for half an hour; and that while the servants of God were sealing,
the Angel with the golden Censer offered their prayers with incense upon the golden Altar,
and read the Law: and that so soon as they were sealed, the winds hurt the earth at the sounding
of the first trumpet, and the sea at the sounding of the second; these winds signifying the
wars, to which the first four trumpets sounded. For as the first four seals are distinguished
from the three last by the appearance of four horsemen towards the four winds of heaven; so
the wars of the first four trumpets are distinguished from those of the three last, by representing
these by four winds, and the others by three great woes. For the solemnity of the great Hosannah
was kept by the Jews upon the seventh or last day of the feast of tabernacles; the Jews upon
that day carrying Palms in their hands, and crying Hosannah. It was the custom for the High-Priest
on the day of expiation, to stand in an elevated place in the peoples court, at the Eastern
gate of the Priests court, and read the Law to the people, while the Heifer and the Goat which
was the Lord's lot, were burning without the Temple. We may therefore suppose him standing
in such a manner, that his right foot might appear to John as it were standing on the sea of
glass, and his left foot on the ground of the house; and that he cried with a loud voice, in
reading the Law on the day of expiation. And when he had cried, seven thunders uttered their
voices. Thunders are the voice of a cloud, and a cloud signifies a multitude; and this multitude
may be the Levites, who sang with thundering voices, and played with musical instruments at
the great sacrifices, on the seven days of the feast of Tabernacles: at which times the trumpets
also sounded. For the trumpets sounded, and the Levites sang alternately, three times at every
sacrifice. The Prophecy therefore of the seven thunders is nothing else than a repetition of
the Prophecy of the seven trumpets in another form. The voices of the thunders therefore last
to the end of this world, and so do those of the trumpets.

And the voice which I heard from heaven, saith John, spake unto me again and said, Go and take
the little book, &c. And I took the little book out of the Angel's hand, and ate it up; and
it was in my mouth sweet as honey, and as soon as I had eaten it, my belly was bitter. And
he said unto me, Thou must prophesy again before many peoples, and nations, and tongues, and
kings. This is an introduction to a new Prophecy, to a repetition of the Prophecy of the whole
book; and alludes to Ezekiel's eating a roll or book spread open before him, and written within
and without, full of lamentations and mourning and woe, but sweet in his mouth. Eating and
drinking signify acquiring and possessing; and eating the book is becoming inspired with the
Prophecy contained in it. It implies being inspired in a vigorous and extraordinary manner
with the Prophecy of the whole book, and therefore signifies a lively repetition of the whole
Prophecy by way of interpretation, and begins not till the first Prophecy, that of the seals
and trumpets, is ended. It was sweet in John's mouth, and therefore begins not with the bitter
Prophecy of the Babylonian captivity, and the Gentiles being in the outward court of the Temple,
and treading the holy city under foot; and the prophesying of the two Witnesses in sackcloth,
and their smiting the earth with all plagues, and being killed by the Beast; but so soon as
the Prophecy of the trumpets is ended, it begins with the sweet Prophecy of the glorious Woman
in heaven, and the victory of Michael over the Dragon; and after that, it is bitter in John's
belly, by a large description of the times of the great Apostacy. This measuring hath reference
to Ezekiel's measuring the Temple of Solomon: there the whole Temple, including the outward
court, was measured, to signify that it should be rebuilt in the latter days. Here the courts
of the Temple and Altar, and they who worship therein, are only measured, to signify the building
of a second Temple, for those that are sealed out of all the twelve tribes of Israel, and worship
in the inward court of sincerity and truth: but John is commanded to leave out the outward
court, or outward form of religion and Church-government, because it is given to the Babylonian
Gentiles. For the glorious woman in heaven, the remnant of whole seed kept the commandments
of God, and had the testimony of Jesus, continued the same woman in outward form after her
flight into the wilderness, whereby she quitted her former sincerity and piety, and became
the great Whore. She lost her chastity, but kept her outward form and shape. And while the
Gentiles tread the holy city underfoot, and worship in the outward court, the two witnesses,
represented perhaps by the two feet of the Angel standing on the sea and earth, prophesied
against them, and had power, like Elijah and Moses, to consume their enemies with fire proceeding
out of their mouth, and to shut heaven that it rain not in the days of their Prophecy, and
to turn the waters into blood, and to smite the earth with all plagues as often as they will,
that is, with the plagues of the trumpets and vials of wrath; and at length they are slain,
rise again from the dead, and ascend up to heaven in a cloud; and then the seventh trumpet
sounds to the day of judgment. By the Ark, we may know that this was the first Temple; for
the second Temple had no Ark. And there were lightnings, and voices, and thundrings, and an
earthquake, and great hail. These answer to the wars in the Roman Empire, during the reign
of the four horsemen, who appeared upon opening the first four seals. And there appeared a
great wonder in heaven, a woman clothed with the Sun. In the Prophecy, the affairs of the Church
begin to be considered at the opening of the fifth seal; and in the Interpretation, they begin
at the same time with the vision of the Church in the form of a woman in heaven: there she
is persecuted, and here she is pained in travail. The Interpretation proceeds down first to
the sealing of the servants of God, and marking the rest with the mark of the Beast; and then
to the day of judgment, represented by a harvest and vintage. Then it returns back to the times
of opening the seventh seal, and interprets the Prophecy of the seven trumpets by the pouring
out of seven vials of wrath. The Angels who pour them out, come out of the Temple of the Tabernacle;
that is, out of the second Temple, for the Tabernacle had no outward court. Then it returns
back again to the times of measuring the Temple and Altar, and of the Gentiles worshiping in
the outward court, and of the Beast killing the witnesses in the streets of the great city;
and interprets these things by the vision of a woman sitting on the Beast, drunken with the
blood of the Saints; and proceeds in the interpretation downwards to the fall of the great
city and the day of judgment.

The whole Prophecy of the book, represented by the book of the Law, is therefore repeated,
and interpreted in the visions which follow those of sounding the seventh trumpet, and begin
with that of the Temple of God opened in heaven. Only the things, which the seven thunders
uttered, were not written down, and therefore not interpreted.

Notes to Chap. II.

[1] Isa. vi.

[2] Apoc. v.

[3] Apoc. vii

[4] Buxtorf in Synogoga Judaica, c. 18, 21.

[5] Ezek. ix.

The whole scene of sacred Prophecy is composed of three principal parts: the regions beyond
Euphrates, represented by the two first Beasts of Daniel; the Empire of the Greeks on this
side of Euphrates, represented by the Leopard and by the He-Goat; and the Empire of the Latins
on this side of Greece, represented by the Beast with ten horns. And to these three parts,
the phrases of the third part of the earth, sea, rivers, trees, ships, stars, sun, and moon,
relate. I place the body of the fourth Beast on this side of Greece, because the three first
of the four Beasts had their lives prolonged after their dominion was taken away, and therefore
belong not to the body of the fourth. He only stamped them with his feet.

By the earth, the Jews understood the great continent of all Asia and Africa, to which they
had access by land: and by the Isles of the sea, they understood the places to which they sailed
by sea, particularly all Europe: and hence in this Prophecy, the earth and sea are put for
the nations of the Greek and Latin Empires.

The third and fourth Beasts of Daniel are the same with the Dragon and ten-horned Beast of
John, but with this difference: John puts the Dragon for the whole Roman Empire while it continued
entire, because it was entire when that Prophecy was given; and the Beast he considers not
till the Empire became divided: and then he puts the Dragon for the Empire of the Greeks, and
the Beast for the Empire of the Latins. Hence it is that the Dragon and Beast have common heads
and common horns: but the Dragon hath crowns only upon his heads, and the Beast only upon his
horns; because the Beast and his horns reigned not before they were divided from the Dragon:
and when the Dragon gave the Beast his throne, the ten horns received power as Kings, the same
hour with the Beast. The heads are seven successive Kings. Four of them were the four horsemen
which appeared at the opening of the first four seals. In the latter end of the sixth head,
or seal, considered as present in the visions, it is said, five of the seven Kings are fallen,
and one is, and another is not yet come; and the Beast that was and is not, being wounded to
death with a sword, he is the eighth, and of the seven: he was therefore a collateral part
of the seventh. The horns are the same with those of Daniel's fourth Beast, described above.

The four horsemen which appear at the opening of the first four seals, have been well explained
by Mr. Mede; excepting that I had rather continue the third to the end of the reign of the
three Gordians and Philip the Arabian, those being Kings from the South, and begin the fourth
with the reign of Decius, and continue it till the reign of Dioclesian. For the fourth horseman
sat upon a pale horse, and his name was Death; and hell followed with him; and power was given
them to kill unto the fourth part of the earth, with the sword, and with famine, and with the
plague, and with the Beasts of the earth, or armies of invaders and rebels: and as such were
the times during all this interval. Hitherto the Roman Empire continued in an undivided monarchical
form, except rebellions; and such it is represented by the four horsemen. But Dioclesian divided
it between himself and Maximianus, A.C. 285; and it continued in that divided state, till the
victory of Constantine the great over Licinius, A.C. 323, which put an end to the heathen persecutions
set on foot by Dioclesian and Maximianus, and described at the opening of the fifth seal. But
this division of the Empire was imperfect, the whole being still under one and the same Senate.
The same victory of Constantine over Licinius a heathen persecutor, began the fall of the heathen
Empire, described at the opening of the sixth seal: and the visions of this seal continue till
after the reign of Julian the Apostate, he being a heathen Emperor, and reigning over the whole
Roman Empire.

The affairs of the Church begin to be considered at the opening of the fifth seal, as was said
above. Then she is represented by a woman in the Temple of heaven, clothed with the sun of
righteousness, and the moon of Jewish ceremonies under her feet, and upon her head a crown
of twelve stars relating to the twelve Apostles and to the twelve tribes of Israel. When she
fled from the Temple into the wilderness, she left in the Temple a remnant of her seed, who
kept the commandments of God, and had the testimony of Jesus Christ; and therefore before her
flight she represented the true primitive Church of God, tho afterwards she degenerated like
Aholah and Aholibah. In Diocesian's persecution she cried, travelling in birth, and pained
to be delivered. And in the end of that persecution, by the victory of Constantine over Maxentius
A.C. 312, she brought forth a man-child, such a child as was to rule all nations with a rod
of iron, a Christian Empire. And her child, by the victory of Constantine over Licinius, A.C.
323, was caught up unto God and to his throne. And the woman, by the division of the Roman
Empire into the Greek and Latin Empires, fled from the first Temple into the wilderness, or
spiritually barren Empire of the Latins, where she is found afterwards sitting upon the Beast
and upon the seven mountains; and is called the great city which reigneth over the Kings of
the earth, that is, over the ten Kings who give their kingdom to her Beast.

And when the Dragon saw that he was cast down from the Roman throne, and the man-child caught
up thither, he persecuted the woman which brought forth the man-child; and to her, by the division
of the Roman Empire between the cities of Rome and Constantinople A.C. 330, were given two
wings of a great eagle, the symbol of the Roman Empire, that she might flee from the first
Temple into the wilderness of Arabia, to her place at Babylon mystically so called. And the
serpent, by the division of the same Empire between the sons of Constantine the great, A.C.
337, cast out of his mouth water as a flood, the Western Empire, after the woman; that he might
cause her to be carried away by the flood. And the Dragon was wroth with the woman, in the
reign of Julian the Apostate A.C. 361, and, by a new division of the Empire between Valentinian
and Valens, A.C. 364, went from her into the Eastern Empire to make war with the remnant of
her seed, which she left behind her when she fled: and thus the Beast revived. By the next
division of the Empire, which was between Gratian and Theodosius A.C. 379, the Beast with ten
horns rose out of the sea, and the Beast with two horns out of the earth: and by the last division
thereof, which was between the sons of Theodosius, A.C. 395, the Dragon gave the Beast his
power and throne, and great authority. And the ten horns received power as Kings, the same
hour with the Beast. She is nourished by the merchants of the earth, three times or years and
an half, or 42 months, or 1260 days: and in these Prophecies days are put for years. During
all this time the Beast acted, and she sat upon him, that is, reigned over him, and over the
ten Kings who gave their power and strength, that is, their kingdom to the Beast; and she was
drunken with the blood of the Saints. By all these circumstances she is the eleventh horn of
Daniel's fourth Beast, who reigned with a look more stout than his fellows, and was of a different
kind from the rest, and had eyes and a mouth like the woman; and made war with the saints,
and prevailed against them, and wore them out, and thought to change times and laws, and had
them given into his hand, until a time, and times, and half a time. These characters of the
woman, and little horn of the Beast, agree perfectly: in respect of her temporal dominion,
she was a horn of the Beast; in respect of her spiritual dominion, she rode upon him in the
form of a woman, and was his Church, and committed fornication with the ten Kings.

The second Beast, which rose up out of the earth, was the Church of the Greek Empire: for it
had two horns like those of the Lamb, and therefore was a Church; and it spake as the Dragon,
and therefore was of his religion; and it came up out of the earth, and by consequence in his
kingdom. It is called also the false Prophet who wrought miracles before the first Beast, by
which he deceived them that received his mark, and worshiped his image. When the Dragon went
from the woman to make war with the remnant of her seed, this Beast arising out of the earth
assisted in that war, and caused the earth and them which dwell therein to worship the authority
of the first Beast, whose mortal wound was healed, and to make an Image to him, that is, to
assemble a body of men like him in point of religion. He had also power to give life and authority
to the Image, so that it could both speak, and by dictating cause that all religious bodies
of men, who would not worship the authority of the Image, should be mystically killed. And
he causeth all men to receive a mark in their right hand or in their forehead, and that no
man might buy or sell save he that had the mark, or the name of the Beast, or the number of
his name; all the rest being excommunicated by the Beast with two horns. His mark is [Cross]
[Cross] [Cross], and his name [Greek: LATEINOS], and the number of his name 666.

Thus the Beast, after he was wounded to death with a sword and revived, was deified, as the
heathens used to deify their Kings after death, and had an Image erected to him; and his worshipers
were initiated in this new religion, by receiving the mark or name of this new God, or the
number of his name. By killing all that will not worship him and his Image, the first Temple,
illuminated by the lamps of the seven Churches, is demolished, and a new Temple built for them
who will not worship him; and the outward court of this new Temple, or outward form of a Church,
is given to the Gentiles, who worship the Beast and his Image: while they who will not worship
him, are sealed with the name of God in their foreheads, and retire into the inward court of
this new Temple. These are the 144000 sealed out of all the twelve tribes of Israel, and called
the two Witnesses, as being derived from the two wings of the woman while she was flying into
the wilderness, and represented by two of the seven candlesticks. These appear to John in the
inward court of the second Temple, standing on mount Sion with the Lamb, and as it were on
the sea of glass. These are the Saints of the most High, and the host of heaven, and the holy
people spoken of by Daniel, as worn out and trampled under foot, and destroyed in the latter
times by the little horns of his fourth Beast and He-Goat.

While the Gentiles tread the holy city under foot, God gives power to his two Witnesses, and
they prophesy a thousand two hundred and threescore days clothed in sackcloth. They are called
the two Olive-trees, with relation to the two Olive-trees, which in Zechary's vision, chap.
iv. stand on either side of the golden candlestick to supply the lamps with oil: and Olive-trees,
according to the Apostle Paul, represent Churches, Rom. xi. They supply the lamps with oil,
by maintaining teachers. They are also called the two candlesticks; which in this Prophecy
signify Churches, the seven Churches of Asia being represented by seven candlesticks. Five
of these Churches were found faulty, and threatned if they did not repent; the other two were
without fault, and so their candlesticks were fit to be placed in the second Temple. These
were the Churches in Smyrna and Philadelphia. They were in a state of tribulation and persecution,
and the only two of the seven in such a state: and so their candlesticks were fit to represent
the Churches in affliction in the times of the second Temple, and the only two of the seven
that were fit. The two Witnesses are not new Churches: they are the posterity of the primitive
Church, the posterity of the two wings of the woman, and so are fitly represented by two of
the primitive candlesticks. We may conceive therefore, that when the first Temple was destroyed,
and a new one built for them who worship in the inward court, two of the seven candlesticks
were placed in this new Temple.

The affairs of the Church are not considered during the opening of the first four seals. They
begin to be consider'd at the opening of the fifth seal, as was said above; and are further
considered at the opening of the sixth seal; and the seventh seal contains the times of the
great Apostacy. And therefore I refer the Epistles to the seven Churches unto the times of
the fifth and sixth seals: for they relate to the Church when she began to decline, and contain
admonitions against the great Apostacy then approaching.

When Eusebius had brought down his Ecclesiatical History to the reign of Dioclesian, he thus
describes the state of the Church: Qualem quantamque gloriam simul ac libertatem doctrina veræ
erga supremum Deum pietatis à Christo primùm hominibus annunciata, apud omnes Græcos pariter
& barbaros ante persecutionem nostrâ memoriâ excitatam, consecuta sit, nos certè pro merito
explicare non possumus. Argumento esse possit Imperatorum benignitas erga nostros: quibus regendas
etiam provincias committebant, omni sacrificandi metu eos liberantes ob singularem, qua in
religionem nostram affecti erant, benevolentiam. And a little after: Jam vero quis innumerabilem
hominum quotidiè ad fidem Christi confugientium turbam, quis numerum ecclesiarum in singulis
urbibus, quis illustres populorum concursus in ædibus sacris, cumulatè possit describere? Quo
factum est, ut priscis ædificiis jam non contenti, in singulis urbibus spatiosas ab ipsis fundamentis
exstruerent ecclesias. Atque hæc progressii temporis increscentia, & quotidiè in majus & melius
proficiscentia, nec livor ullus atterere, nec malignitas dæmonis fascinare, nec hominum insidiæ
prohibere unquam potuerunt, quamdiu omnipotentis Dei dextra populum suum, utpote tali dignum
præsidio, texit atque custodiit. Sed cum ex nimia libertate in negligentiam ac desidiam prolapsi
essemus; cum alter alteri invidere atque obtrectare cæpisset; cum inter nos quasi bella intestina
gereremus, verbis, tanquam armis quibusdam hastisque, nos mutuò vulnerantes; cum Antistites
adversus Antistites, populi in populos collisi, jurgia ac tumultus agitarent; denique cum fraus
& simulatio ad summum malitiæ culmen adolevisset: tum divina ultio, levi brachio ut solet,
integro adhuc ecclesiæ statu, & fidelium turbis liberè convenientibus, sensim ac moderatè in
nos cæpit animadvertere; orsà primùm persecutione ab iis qui militabant. Cum verò sensu omni
destituti de placando Dei numine ne cogitaremus quidem; quin potius instar impiorum quorundam
res humanas nullâ providentiâ gubernari rati, alia quotidiè crimina aliis adjiceremus: cum
Pastores nostri spretâ religionis regulâ, mutuis inter se contentionibus decertarent, nihil
aliud quam jurgia, minas, æmulationem, odia, ac mutuas inimicitias amplificare studentes; principatum
quasi tyrannidem quandam contentissimè sibi vindicantes: tunc demùm juxta dictum Hieremiæ,
obscuravit Dominus in ira sua filiam Sion, & dejecit de cælo gloriam Israel,--per Ecclesiarum
scilicet subversionem, &c. This was the state of the Church just before the subversion of the
Churches in the beginning of Dioclesian's persecution: and to this state of the Church agrees
the first of the seven Epistles to the Angel of the seven Churches, [1] that to the Church
in Ephesus. But this thou hast, that thou hatest the deeds of the Nicolaitans, which I also
hate. The Nicolaitans are the Continentes above described, who placed religion in abstinence
from marriage, abandoning their wives if they had any. They are here called Nicolaitans, from
Nicolas one of the seven deacons of the primitive Church of Jerusalem; who having a beautiful
wife, and being taxed with uxoriousness, abandoned her, and permitted her to marry whom she
pleased, saying that we must disuse the flesh; and thenceforward lived a single life in continency,
as his children also. The Continentes afterwards embraced the doctrine of Æons and Ghosts male
and female, and were avoided by the Churches till the fourth century; and the Church of Ephesus
is here commended for hating their deeds.

The persecution of Dioclesian began in the year of Christ 302, and lasted ten years in the
Eastern Empire and two years in the Western. To this state of the Church the second Epistle,
to the Church of Smyrna, agrees. The tribulation of ten days can agree to no other persecution
than that of Dioclesian, it being the only persecution which lasted ten years. By the blasphemy
of them which say they are Jews and are not, but are the synagogue of Satan, I understand the
Idolatry of the Nicolaitans, who falsly said they were Christians. For Balaam taught the Moabites
and Midianites to tempt and invite Israel by their women to commit fornication, and to feast
with them at the sacrifices of their Gods. The Dragon therefore began now to come down among
the inhabitants of the earth and sea.

The Nicolaitans are also complained of in the fourth Epistle, under the name of the woman Jezabel,
who calleth herself a Prophetess, to teach and to seduce the servants of Christ to commit fornication,
and to eat things sacrificed to Idols. The woman therefore began now to fly into the wilderness.

The reign of Constantine the great from the time of his conquering Licinius, was monarchical
over the whole Roman Empire. Then the Empire became divided between the sons of Constantine:
and afterwards it was again united under Constantius, by his victory over Magnentius. To the
affairs of the Church in these three successive periods of time, the third, fourth, and fifth
Epistles, that is, those to the Angels of the Churches in Pergamus, Thyatira, and Sardis, seem
to relate. The next Emperor was Julian the Apostate.

In the sixth Epistle, [5] to the Angel of the Church in Philadelphia, Christ saith: Because
in the reign of the heathen Emperor Julian, thou hast kept the word of my patience, I also
will keep thee from the hour of temptation, which by the woman's flying into the wilderness,
and the Dragon's making war with the remnant of her seed, and the killing of all who will not
worship the Image of the Beast, shall come upon all the world, to try them that dwell upon
the earth, and to distinguish them by sealing the one with the name of God in their foreheads,
and marking the other with the mark of the Beast. So the Christians of the Church of Philadelphia,
as many of them as overcome, are sealed with the seal of God, and placed in the second Temple,
and go no more out. The same is to be understood of the Church in Smyrna, which also kept the
word of God's patience, and was without fault. These two Churches, with their posterity, are
therefore the two Pillars, and the two Candlesticks, and the two Witnesses in the second Temple.

After the reign of the Emperor Julian, and his successor Jovian who reigned but five months,
the Empire became again divided between Valentinian and Valens. Then the Church Catholick,
in the Epistle to the Angel of the Church of Laodicea, is reprehended as lukewarm, and [6]
threatned to be spewed out of Christ's mouth. She said, that she was rich and increased with
goods, and had need of nothing, being in outward prosperity; and knew not that she was inwardly
wretched, and miserable, and poor, and blind, and naked. She is therefore spewed out of Christ's
mouth at the opening of the seventh seal: and this puts an end to the times of the first Temple.

About one half of the Roman Empire turned Christians in the time of Constantine the great and
his sons. After Julian had opened the Temples, and restored the worship of the heathens, the
Emperors Valentinian and Valens tolerated it all their reign; and therefore the Prophecy of
the sixth seal was not fully accomplished before the reign of their successor Gratian. It was
the custom of the heathen Priests, in the beginning of the reign of every sovereign Emperor,
to offer him the dignity and habit of the Pontifex Maximus. This dignity all Emperors had hitherto
accepted: but Gratian rejected it, threw down the idols, interdicted the sacrifices, and took
away their revenues with the salaries and authority of the Priests. Theodosius the great followed
his example; and heathenism afterwards recovered itself no more, but decreased so fast, that
Prudentius, about ten years after the death of Theodosius, called the heathens, vix pauca ingenia
& pars hominum rarissima. Whence the affairs of the sixth seal ended with the reign of Valens,
or rather with the beginning of the reign of Theodosius, when he, like his predecessor Gratian,
rejected the dignity of Pontifex Maximus. For the Romans were very much infested by the invasions
of foreign nations in the reign of Valentinian and Valens: Hoc tempore, saith Ammianus, velut
per universum orbem Romanum bellicum canentibus buccinis, excitæ gentes sævissimæ limites sibi
proximos persultabant: Gallias Rhætiasque simul Alemanni populabantur: Sarmatæ Pannonias &
Quadi: Picti, Saxones, & Scoti & Attacotti Britannos ærumnis vexavere continuis: Austoriani,
Mauricæque aliæ gentes Africam solito acriùs incursabant: Thracias diripiebant prædatorii globi
Gotthorum: Persarum Rex manus Armeniis injectabat. And whilst the Emperors were busy in repelling
these enemies, the Hunns and Alans and Goths came over the Danube in two bodies, overcame and
slew Valens, and made so great a slaughter of the Roman army, that Ammianus saith: Nec ulla
Annalibus præter Cannensem ita ad internecionem res legitur gesta. These wars were not fully
stopt on all sides till the beginning of the reign of Theodosius, A.C. 379 & 380: but thenceforward
the Empire remained quiet from foreign armies, till his death, A.C. 395. So long the four winds
were held: and so long there was silence in heaven. And the seventh seal was opened when this
silence began.

Mr. Mede hath explained the Prophecy of the first six trumpets not much amiss: but if he had
observed, that the Prophecy of pouring out the vials of wrath is synchronal to that of sounding
the trumpets, his explanation would have been yet more complete.

The name of Woes is given to the wars to which the three last trumpets sound, to distinguish
them from the wars of the four first. The sacrifices on the first four days of the feast of
Tabernacles, at which the first four trumpets sound, and the first four vials of wrath are
poured out, are slaughters in four great wars; and these wars are represented by four winds
from the four corners of the earth. The first was an east wind, the second a west wind, the
third a south wind, and the fourth a north wind, with respect to the city of Rome, the metropolis
of the old Roman Empire. These four plagues fell upon the third part of the Earth, Sea, Rivers,
Sun, Moon and Stars; that is, upon the Earth, Sea, Rivers, Sun, Moon and Stars of the third
part of the whole scene of these Prophecies of Daniel and John.

The plague of the eastern wind [7] at the sounding of the first trumpet, was to fall upon the
Earth, that is, upon the nations of the Greek Empire. Accordingly, after the death of Theodosius
the great, the Goths, Sarmatians, Hunns, Isaurians, and Austorian Moors invaded and miserably
wasted Greece, Thrace, Asia minor, Armenia, Syria, Egypt, Lybia, and Illyricum, for ten or
twelve years together.

The plague of the western wind at the sounding of the second trumpet, was to fall upon the
Sea, or Western Empire, by means of a great mountain burning with fire cast into it, and turning
it to blood. Accordingly in the year 407, that Empire began to be invaded by the Visigoths,
Vandals, Alans, Sueves, Burgundians, Ostrogoths, Heruli, Quadi, Gepides; and by these wars
it was broken into ten kingdoms, and miserably wasted: and Rome itself, the burning mountain,
was besieged and taken by the Ostrogoths, in the beginning of these miseries.

The plague of the southern wind at the sounding of the third trumpet, was to cause a great
star, burning as it were a lamp, to fall from heaven upon the rivers and fountains of waters,
the Western Empire now divided into many kingdoms, and to turn them to wormwood and blood,
and make them bitter. Accordingly Genseric, the King of the Vandals and Alans in Spain, A.C.
427, enter'd Africa with an army of eighty thousand men; where he invaded the Moors, and made
war upon the Romans, both there and on the sea-coasts of Europe, for fifty years together,
almost without intermission, taking Hippo A.C. 431, and Carthage the capital of Africa A.C.
439. In A.C. 455, with a numerous fleet and an army of three hundred thousand Vandals and Moors,
he invaded Italy, took and plundered Rome, Naples, Capua, and many other cities; carrying thence
their wealth with the flower of the people into Africa: and the next year, A.C. 456, he rent
all Africa from the Empire, totally expelling the Romans. Then the Vandals invaded and took
the Islands of the Mediterranean, Sicily, Sardinia, Corsica, Ebusus, Majorca, Minorca, &c.
and Ricimer besieged the Emperer Anthemius in Rome, took the city, and gave his soldiers the
plunder, A.C. 472. The Visigoths about the same time drove the Romans out of Spain: and now
the Western Emperor, the great star which fell from heaven, burning as it were a lamp, having
by all these wars gradually lost almost all his dominions, was invaded, and conquered in one
year by Odoacer King of the Heruli, A.C. 476. After this the Moors revolted A.C. 477, and weakned
the Vandals by several wars, and took Mauritania from them. These wars continued till the Vandals
were conquered by Belisarius, A.C. 534. and by all these wars Africa was almost depopulated,
according to Procopius, who reckons that above five millions of men perished in them. When
the Vandals first invaded Africa, that country was very populous, consisting of about 700 bishopricks,
more than were in all France, Spain and Italy together: but by the wars between the Vandals,
Romans and Moors, it was depopulated to that degree, that Procopius tells us, it was next to
a miracle for a traveller to see a man. How they shed the blood of Saints, may be understood
by the following Edict of the Emperor Honorius, procured by four Bishops sent to him by a Council
of African Bishops, who met at Carthage 14 June, A.C. 410.

Impp. Honor. &. Theod. AA. Heracliano Com. Afric.

Oraculo penitus remoto, quo ad ritus suos hæreticæ superstitionis abrepserant, sciant omnes
sanctæ legis inimici, plectendos se poena & proscriptionis & sanguinis, si ultra convenire
per publicum, execrandâ sceleris sui temeritate temptaverint. Dat. viii. Kal. Sept. Varano
V.C. Cons. A.C. 410.

Which Edict was five years after fortified by the following.

Impp. Honor. & Theod. AA. Heracliano Com. Afric.

Sciant cuncti qui ad ritus suos hæresis superstitionibus obrepserant sacrosanctæ legis inimici,
plectendos se poenâ & proscriptionis & sanguinis, si ultra convenire per publicum exercendi
sceleris sui temeritate temptaverint: ne quâ vera divinaque reverentia contagione temeretur.
Dat. viii. Kal. Sept. Honorio x. & Theod. vi. AA. Coss. A.C. 415.

These Edicts being directed to the governor of Africa, extended only to the Africans. Before
these there were many severe ones against the Donatists, but they did not extend to blood.
These two were the first which made their meetings, and the meetings of all dissenters, capital:
for by hereticks in these Edicts are meant all dissenters, as is manifest by the following
against Euresius a Luciferan Bishop.

Impp. Arcad. & Honor. AA. Aureliano Proc. Africæ.

Hæreticorum vocabulo continentur, & latis adversus eos sanctionibus debent succumbere, qui
vel levi argumento à judicio Catholicæ religionis & tramite detecti fuerint deviare: ideoque
experientia tua Euresium hæreticum esse cognoscat. Dat. iii. Non. Sept. Constantinop. Olybrio
& Probino Coss. A.C. 395.

The Greek Emperor Zeno adopted Theoderic King of the Ostrogoths to be his son, made him master
of the horse and Patricius, and Consul of Constantinople; and recommending to him the Roman
people and Senate, gave him the Western Empire, and sent him into Italy against Odoacer King
of the Heruli. Theoderic thereupon led his nation into Italy, conquered Odoacer, and reigned
over Italy, Sicily, Rhætia, Noricum, Dalmatia, Liburnia, Istria, and part of Suevia, Pannonia
and Gallia. Whence Ennodius said, in a Panegyric to Theoderic: Ad limitem suum Romana regna
remeâsse. Theoderic reigned with great prudence, moderation and felicity; treated the Romans
with singular benevolence, governed them by their own laws, and restored their government under
their Senate and Consuls, he himself supplying the place of Emperor, without assuming the title.
Ita sibi parentibus præfuit, saith Procopius, ut vere Imperatori conveniens decus nullum ipsi
abesset: Justitiæ magnus ei cultus, legumque diligens custodia: terras à vicinis barbaris servavit
intactas, &c. Whence I do not reckon the reign of this King, amongst the plagues of the four winds.

The plague of the northern wind, at the sounding of the fourth trumpet, was to cause the Sun,
Moon and Stars, that is, the King, kingdom and Princes of the Western Empire, to be darkned,
and to continue some time in darkness. Accordingly Belisarius, having conquered the Vandals,
invaded Italy A.C. 535, and made war upon the Ostrogoths in Dalmatia, Liburnia, Venetia, Lombardy,
Tuscany, and other regions northward from Rome, twenty years together. In this war many cities
were taken and retaken. In retaking Millain from the Romans, the Ostrogoths slew all the males
young and old, amounting, as Procopius reckons, to three hundred thousand, and sent the women
captives to their allies the Burgundians. Rome itself was taken and retaken several times,
and thereby the people were thinned; the old government by a Senate ceased, the nobles were
ruined, and all the glory of the city was extinguish'd: and A.C. 552, after a war of seventeen
years, the kingdom of the Ostrogoths fell; yet the remainder of the Ostrogoths, and an army
of Germans called in to their assistance, continued the war three or four years longer. Then
ensued the war of the Heruli, who, as Anastasius tells us, perimebant cunctam Italiam, slew
all Italy. This was followed by the war of the Lombards, the fiercest of all the Barbarians,
which began A.C. 568, and lasted for thirty eight years together; factâ tali clade, saith Anastasius,
qualem à sæculo nullus meminit; ending at last in the Papacy of Sabinian, A.C. 605, by a peace
then made with the Lombards. Three years before this war ended, Gregory the great, then Bishop
of Rome, thus speaks of it: Qualiter enim & quotidianis gladiis & quantis Longobardorum incursionibus,
ecce jam per triginta quinque annorum longitudinem premimur, nullis explere vocibus suggestionis
valemus: and in one of his Sermons to the people, he thus expresses the great consumption of
the Romans by these wars: Ex illa plebe innumerabili quanti remanseritis aspicitis, & tamen
adhuc quotidiè flagella urgent, repentini casus opprimunt, novæ res & improvisæ clades affligunt.
In another Sermon he thus describes the desolations: Destructæ urbes, eversa sunt castra, depopulati
agri, in solitudinem terra redacta est. Nullus in agris incola, penè nullus in urbibus habitator
remansit. Et tamen ipsæ parvæ generis humani reliquiæ adhuc quotidiè & sine cessatione feriuntur,
& finem non habent flagella coelestis justitiæ. Ipsa autem quæ aliquando mundi Domina esse
videbatur, qualis remansit Roma conspicimus innumeris doloribus multipliciter attrita, defolatione
civium, impressione hostium, frequentiâ ruinarum.--Ecce jam de illa omnes hujus fæculi potentes
ablati sunt.--Ecce populi defecerunt.--Ubi enim Senatus? Ubi jam populus? Contabuerunt ossa,
consumptæ sunt carnes. Omnis enim sæcularium dignitatum ordo extinctus est, & tamen ipsos vos
paucos qui remansimus, adhuc quotidié gladii, adhuc quotidié innumeræ tribulationes premunt.--Vacua
jam ardet Roma. Quid autem ista de hominibus dicimus? Cum ruinis crebrescentibus ipsa quoque
destrui ædificia videmus. Postquam defecerunt homines etiam parietes cadunt. Jam ecce desolata,
ecce contrita, ecce gemitibus oppressa est, &c. All this was spoken by Gregory to the people
of Rome, who were witnesses of the truth of it. Thus by the plagues of the four winds, the
Empire of the Greeks was shaken, and the Empire of the Latins fell; and Rome remained nothing
more than the capital of a poor dukedom, subordinate to Ravenna, the seat of the Exarchs.

The fifth trumpet sounded to the wars, which the King of the South, as he is called by Daniel,
made in the time of the end, in pushing at the King who did according to his will. This plague
began with the opening of the bottomless pit, which denotes the letting out of a false religion:
the smoke which came out of the pit, signifying the multitude which embraced that religion;
and the locusts which came out of the smoke, the armies which came out of that multitude. This
pit was opened, to let out smoke and locusts into the regions of the four monarchies, or some
of them. The King of these locusts was the Angel of the bottomless pit, being chief governor
as well in religious as civil affairs, such as was the Caliph of the Saracens. Swarms of locusts
often arise in Arabia fælix, and from thence infest the neighbouring nations: and so are a
very fit type of the numerous armies of Arabians invading the Romans. They began to invade
them A.C. 634, and to reign at Damascus A.C. 637. They built Bagdad A.C. 766, and reigned over
Persia, Syria, Arabia, Egypt, Africa and Spain. They afterwards lost Africa to Mahades, A.C.
910; Media, Hircania, Chorasan, and all Persia, to the Dailamites, between the years 927 and
935; Mesopotamia and Miafarekin to Nasiruddaulas, A.C. 930; Syria and Egypt to Achsjid, A.C.
935, and now being in great distress, the Caliph of Bagdad, A.C. 936, surrendred all the rest
of his temporal power to Mahomet the son of Rajici, King of Wasit in Chaldea, and made him
Emperor of Emperors. But Mahomet within two years lost Bagdad to the Turks; and thenceforward
Bagdad was sometimes in the hands of the Turks, and sometimes in the hands of the Saracens,
till Togrul-beig, called also Togra, Dogrissa, Tangrolipix, and Sadoc, conquered Chorasan and
Persia; and A.C. 1055, added Bagdad to his Empire, making it the seat thereof. His successors
Olub-Arflan and Melechschah, conquered the regions upon Euphrates; and these conquests, after
the death of Melechschah, brake into the kingdoms of Armenia, Mesopotamia, Syria, and Cappadocia.
The whole time that the Caliphs of the Saracens reigned with a temporal dominion at Damascus
and Bagdad together, was 300 years, viz. from the year 637 to the year 936 inclusive. Now locusts
live but five months; and therefore, for the decorum of the type, these locusts are said to
hurt men five months and five months, as if they had lived about five months at Damascus, and
again about five months at Bagdad; in all ten months, or 300 prophetic days, which are years.

The sixth trumpet sounded to the wars, which Daniel's King of the North made against the King
above-mentioned, who did according to his will. In these wars the King of the North, according
to Daniel, conquered the Empire of the Greeks, and also Judea, Egypt, Lybia, and Ethiopia:
and by these conquests the Empire of the Turks was set up, as may be known by the extent thereof.
These wars commenced A.C. 1258, when the four kingdoms of the Turks seated upon Euphrates,
that of Armenia major seated at Miyapharekin, Megarkin or Martyropolis, that of Mesopotamia
seated at Mosul, that of all Syria seated at Aleppo, and that of Cappadocia seated at Iconium,
were invaded by the Tartars under Hulacu, and driven into the western parts of Asia minor,
where they made war upon the Greeks, and began to erect the present Empire of the Turks. By
the four horns of the golden Altar, is signified the situation of the head cities of the said
four kingdoms, Miyapharekin, Mosul, Aleppo, and Iconium, which were in a quadrangle. They slew
the third part of men, when they conquered the Greek Empire, and took Constantinople, A.C.
1453. and they began to be prepared for this purpose, when Olub-Arslan began to conquer the
nations upon Euphrates, A.C. 1063. The interval is called an hour and a day, and a month and
a year, or 391 prophetic days, which are years. In the first thirty years, Olub-Arslan and
Melechschah conquered the nations upon Euphrates, and reigned over the whole. Melechschah died
A.C. 1092, and was succeeded by a little child; and then this kingdom broke into the four kingdoms
above-mentioned.

       *       *       *       *       *

Notes to Chap. III.

[1] Apoc. ii. 4, &c.

[2] Apoc. ii. 9, 10.

[3] Ver. 14.

[4] Numb. xxv. 1, 2, 18, & xxi. 16.

[5] Apoc. iii. 10, 12.

[6] Apoc. iii. 16, 17.

[7] Apoc. viii. 7, &c.

[8] Apoc. xvi. 5, 6.

[9] Apoc. ix. 13, &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE END.

       *       *       *       *       *

Advertisement.

The last pages of these Observations having been differently drawn up by the Author in another
copy of his Work; they are here inserted as they follow in that copy, after the 22d line of
the 261st page foregoing.

       *       *       *       *       *

And none was found worthy to open the book till the Lamb of God appeared; the great High-Priest
represented by a lamb slain at the foot of the Altar in the morning-sacrifice. And he came,
and took the book out of the hand of him that sat upon the throne. For the High-Priest, in
the feast of the seventh month, went into the most holy place, and took the book of the law
out of the right side of the Ark, to read it to the people: and in order to read it well, he
studied it seven days, that is, upon the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth
days, being attended by some of the priests to hear him perform. These seven days are alluded
to, by the Lamb's opening the seven seals successively.

Upon the tenth day of the month, a young bullock was offered for a sin-offering for the High-Priest,
and a goat for a sin-offering for the people: and lots were cast upon two goats to determine
which of them should be God's lot for the sin-offering; and the other goat was called Azazel,
the scape-goat. The High-Priest in his linen garments, took a censer full of burning coals
of fire from the Altar, his hand being full of sweet incense beaten small; and went into the
most holy place within the veil, and put the incense upon the fire, and sprinkled the blood
of the bullock with his finger upon the mercy-seat and before the mercy-seat seven times; and
then he killed the goat which fell to God's lot, for a sin-offering for the people, and brought
his blood within the veil, and sprinkled it also seven times upon the mercy-seat and before
the mercy-seat. Then he went out to the Altar, and sprinkled it also seven times with the blood
of the bullock, and as often with the blood of the goat. & chap. xvi. While the High-Priest
was doing these things in the most holy place and at the Altar, the people continued at their
devotion quietly and in silence. Then the High-Priest went into the holy place, put off his
linen garments, and put on other garments; then came out, and sent the bullock and the goat
of the sin-offering to be burnt without the camp, with fire taken in a censer from the Altar:
and as the people returned home from the Temple, they said to one another, God seal you to
a good new year. For the High-Priest being Christ himself, the bullock is omitted. At this
sacrifice there were voices and thundrings, of the musick of the Temple, and lightnings of
the sacred fire, and an earthquake: and synchronal to these things was the sealing of the 144000
out of all the twelve tribes of the children of Israel with the seal of God in their foreheads,
while the rest of the twelve tribes received the mark of the Beast, and the Woman fled from
the Temple into the wilderness to her place upon this Beast. For this sealing and marking was
represented by casting lots upon the two goats, sacrificing God's lot on mount Sion, and sending
the scape-goat into the wilderness loaden with the sins of the people.

Upon the fifteenth day of the month, and the six following days, there were very great sacrifices.
And in allusion to the sounding of trumpets, and singing with thundring voices, and pouring
out drink-offerings at those sacrifices, seven trumpets are sounded, and seven thunders utter
their voices, and seven vials of wrath are poured out. Wherefore the sounding of the seven
trumpets, the voices of the seven thunders, and the pouring out of the seven vials of wrath,
are synchronal, and relate to one and the same division of the time of the seventh seal following
the silence, into seven successive parts. The seven days of this feast were called the feast
of Tabernacles; and during these seven days the children of Israel dwelt in booths, and rejoiced
with palm-branches in their hands. To this alludes the multitude with palms in their hands,
which appeared after the sealing of the 144000, and came out of the great tribulation with
triumph at the battle of the great day, to which the seventh trumpet sounds. The visions therefore
of the 144000, and of the palm-bearing multitude, extend to the sounding of the seventh trumpet,
and therefore are synchronal to the times of the seventh seal.

When the 144000 are sealed out of all the twelve tribes of Israel, and the rest receive the
mark of the Beast, and thereby the first temple is destroyed; John is bidden to measure the
temple and altar, that is, their courts, and them that worship therein, that is, the 144000
standing on mount Sion and on the sea of glass: but the court that is without the temple, that
is, the peoples court, to leave out and measure it not, because it is given to the Gentiles,
those who receive the mark of the Beast; and the holy city they shall tread under foot forty
and two months, that is, all the time that the Beast acts under the woman Babylon: and the
two witnesses prophesy 1260 days, that is, all the same time, clothed in sackcloth. These have
power, like Elijah, to shut heaven that it rain not, at the sounding of the first trumpet;
and, like Moses, to turn the waters into blood at the sounding of the second; and to smite
the earth with all plagues, those of the trumpets, as often as they will. These prophesy at
the building of the second temple, like Haggai and Zechary. These are the two Olive-trees,
or Churches, which supplied the lamps with oil, Zech. iv. These are the two candlesticks, or
Churches, standing before the God of the earth. Five of the seven Churches of Asia, those in
prosperity, are found fault with, and exhorted to repent, and threatned to be removed out of
their places, or spewed out of Christ's mouth, or punished with the sword of Christ's mouth,
except they repent: the other two, the Churches of Smyrna and Philadelphia, which were under
persecution, remain in a state of persecution, to illuminate the second temple. When the primitive
Church catholick, represented by the woman in heaven, apostatized, and became divided into
two corrupt Churches, represented by the whore of Babylon and the two-horned Beast, the 144000
who were sealed out of all the twelve tribes, became the two Witnesses, in opposition to those
two false Churches: and the name of two Witnesses once imposed, remains to the true Church
of God in all times and places to the end of the Prophecy.

In the interpretation of this Prophecy, the woman in heaven clothed with the sun, before she
flies into the wilderness, represents the primitive Church catholick, illuminated with the
seven lamps in the seven golden candlesticks, which are the seven Churches of Asia. The Dragon
signifies the same Empire with Daniel's He-goat in the reign of his last horn, that is, the
whole Roman Empire, until it became divided into the Greek and Latin Empires; and all the time
of that division it signifies the Greek Empire alone: and the Beast is Daniel's fourth Beast,
that is, the Empire of the Latins. Before the division of the Roman Empire into the Greek and
Latin Empires, the Beast is included in the body of the Dragon; and from the time of that division,
the Beast is the Latin Empire only. Hence the Dragon and Beast have the same heads and horns;
but the heads are crowned upon the Dragon, and the horns upon the Beast. The horns are ten
kingdoms, into which the Beast becomes divided presently after his separation from the Dragon,
as hath been described above. The heads are seven successive dynasties, or parts, into which
the Roman Empire becomes divided by the opening of the seven seals. Before the woman fled into
the wilderness, she being with child of a Christian Empire, cried travelling, viz. in the ten
years persecution of Dioclesian, and pained to be delivered: and the Dragon, the heathen Roman
Empire, stood before her, to devour her child as soon as it was born. And there was war in
heaven, between the heathens under Maximinus and the new Christian Empire; and the great Dragon
was cast out, that old serpent, which deceiveth the whole world, the spirit of heathen idolatry;
he was cast out of the throne into the earth. And the earth, the nations of Asia now under
Constantinople, helped the woman; and by conquering the Western Empire, now under Magnentius,
swallowed up the flood which the Dragon cast out of his mouth. And the Beast was like unto
a Leopard, and his feet were as the feet of a Bear, and his mouth as the mouth of a Lion. John
here names Daniel's four Beasts in order, putting his Beast in the room of Daniel's fourth
Beast, to shew that they are the same. And the Dragon gave this Beast his power and his seat
and great authority, by relinquishing the Western Empire to him. And one of his heads, the
sixth, was as it were wounded to death, viz. by the sword of the earth, which swallowed up
the waters cast out of the mouth of the Dragon; and his deadly wound was healed, by a new division
of the Empire between Valentinian and Valens, An. 364. John saw the Beast rise out of the sea,
at the division thereof between Gratian and Theodosius, An. 379. The Dragon gave the Beast
his power, and his seat and great authority, at the death of Theodosius, when Theodosius gave
the Western Empire to his son Honorius. After which the two Empires were no more united: but
the Western Empire became presently divided into ten kingdoms, as above; and these kingdoms
at length united in religion under the woman, and reign with her forty and two months.

And I beheld, saith John, another Beast coming up out of the earth. When the woman fled from
the Dragon into the kingdom of the Beast, and became his Church, this other Beast rose up out
of the earth, to represent the Church of the Dragon. For he had two horns like the Lamb, such
as were the bishopricks of Alexandria and Antioch: and he spake as the Dragon in matters of
religion: and he causeth the earth, or nations of the Dragon's kingdom, to worship the first
Beast, whose deadly wound was healed, that is, to be of his religion. All others were excommunicated.

When the seven Angels had poured out the seven vials of wrath, and John had described them
all in the present time, he is called up from the time of the seventh vial to the time of the
sixth seal, to take a view of the woman and her Beast, who were to reign in the times of the
seventh seal. In respect of the latter part of time of the sixth seal, then considered as present,
the Angel tells John: The Beast that thou sawest, was and is not, and shall ascend out of the
abyss, and go into perdition; that is, he was in the reign of Constans and Magnentius, until
Constantius conquered Magnentius, and re-united the Western Empire to the Eastern. He is not
during the reunion, and he shall ascend out of the abyss or sea at a following division of
the Empire. The Angel tells him further: Here is the mind which hath wisdom: the seven heads
are seven mountains, on which the woman sitteth; Rome being built upon seven hills, and thence
called the seven-hilled city. Also there are seven Kings: five are fallen, and one is, and
the other is not yet come; and when he cometh, he must continue a short space: and the Beast
that was and is not, even he is the eighth, and is of the seven, and goeth into perdition.
Five are fallen, the times of the five first seals being past; and one is, the time of the
sixth seal being considered as present; and another is not yet come, and when he cometh, which
will be at the opening of the seventh seal, he must continue a short space: and the Beast that
was and is not, even he is the eighth, by means of the division of the Roman Empire into two
collateral Empires; and is of the seven, being one half of the seventh, and shall go into perdition.
The words, five are fallen, and one is, and the other is not yet come, are usually referred
by interpreters to the time of John the Apostle, when the Prophecy was given: but it is to
be considered, that in this Prophecy many things are spoken of as present, which were not present
when the Prophecy was given, but which would be present with respect to some future time, considered
as present in the visions. So where it is said, Babylon is fallen, is fallen; and thrust in
thy sickle and reap, for the time is come for thee to reap; and the time of the dead is come,
that they should be judged; and again, I saw the dead small and great stand before God: these
sayings relate not to the days of John the Apostle, but to the latter times considered as present
in the visions. In like manner the words, five are fallen, and one is, and the other is not
yet come, and the Beast that was and is not, he is the eighth, are not to be referred to the
age of John the Apostle, but relate to the time when the Beast was to be wounded to death with
a sword, and shew that this wound was to be given him in his sixth head: and without this reference
we are not told in what head the Beast was wounded.

       *       *       *       *       *

FINIS.

