OUR YOUNG FOLKS.

                   An Illustrated Magazine

                      FOR BOYS AND GIRLS.

VOL. I.                  FEBRUARY, 1865.                  NO. II.

DAVID MATSON.

                                             John G. Whittier.

THE SANDPIPER.

They were a family that had long outlived their grandeur,--the Fotheringtons. And though the
last generation had been kept alive with traditions of it, the present one knew those traditions
only as vague dreams that might or might not be true, and which, either way, had nothing at
all to do with their absolute want of bread and butter, other than as having fostered past
pride they had hindered honest labor. Of all those great colonial possessions, nothing remained
to them but the rambling old house and its well-worn hereditaments; and though various parts
even of the old mansion itself had been sold and moved away, still much more room remained
than was needed by the mother and her five children,--the mother, whose woful condition had
brought her to an utter contempt of the ancestral Fotheringtons, the children, who yet preserved
a certain happiness in the midst of their poverty in remembering that at their great-grandfather's
wedding a hundred guests were entertained for a week in the house after princely fashion. Not
that the Fotheringtons of to-day did not present a decent appearance;--gowns were turned, and
ribbons were pressed, and laces were darned till there was nothing left of them; nobody knew
exactly how poor they were, which perhaps made it all the harder. The eldest daughters had
been quite comfortably educated before everything was gone; the elder son had pushed his own
way through college with but small debt, and was now studying his profession at home, finding
much reason for unhappiness, and vexed out of patience by little Sarah's troublesome tongue
and fingers, and young Tommy's musical fancy, which occasioned him opportunity of exercising
his lungs and his shrill little voice all day long and sometimes half the night. It was hard
work for poor Frederick Fotherington to try and bury himself in the dismal profundities of
his law-books, and the quirks and catches of their citations, when little Sarah had been planted
at one end of the great, lumbering cradle in which the first Fotherington might have been rocked,--planted
there to be entertained by Tommy, who, inserting himself at the other end, with a hand on either
side, loudly rocked the great ark quite across the room from one end to the other, piping meanwhile,
like a boatswain's whistle, an interminable ballad of the Fair Rosamond that his sister Margaret
had taught him, without ever dreaming of the evil use to which it would be put, and piping
the more noisily the more he guessed at Frederick's annoyance. Of the two remaining children,
Margaret taught school all day, being a visiting governess in two families; Helen stayed at
home and did the house-work and the sewing, for the mother had been an invalid ever since her
husband's death and the birth of little Sarah, something over two years ago.

This family had yet a trifle remaining of their mother's small dowry, invested, as it had been
by their father, in certain bridge-stock, which paid dividends of exactly one per cent. This
gave the two children molasses on their bread; the elders ate their bread without it. They
had a cow, that fed in the paddock,--a cow lineally descended from a famous Puritan cow of
the Fotherington breed,--and from her milk once a fortnight Helen contrived to scrape together
butter enough for her mother's morning slice of toast. They completed the inventory of their
wealth by mention of an old horse, which every day Frederick harnessed into an antique chaise,
in order that he might take his mother for an airing.

Meantime, Helen, left with the two children alone in the house, would scrub, and scour, and
cook, and sew, and sing songs, and tell stories,--stories of the good cheer of other days that
once this barren house afforded, half of which she believed, and many of which she made up.
Thus gradually left so much to herself and her fancies, while the others either detested their
origin or laughed at it, Miss Helen had persuaded herself into a conviction that it was all
a very fine thing, and was sure that they had by no means come to the end of such a tether,
and that some day or other something was to turn up on it. There were the customary legends
of every rich family for her to choose from; she might take that of the day when, after General
Fotherington's funeral, the guests, returning from the grave, found the old gentleman there
before them, storming up and down in a great pother opposite the portrait of his wife, long
dead and gone, trying to shake the panel on which it was painted from its setting in the carved
wood of the wall, so that half the world believed that the worthy, having failed to find his
departed spouse in the spirit-land, had indignantly returned to loosen her ghost from the painting
in which some cunning artist had imprisoned it, and the other half declared that certain deeds
and records had been concealed between the panel and the chimney-bricks, which the General
wished to dislodge; but, as no one knew of any deed or record missing, the matter had slipped
by. Or, if Miss Helen's conjecture wearied on that, she might take the rumor concerning a Revolutionary
Fotherington, who, being a noted Tory, had seen fit both to eat his cake and have it, and had
accordingly buried a great pot of golden Spanish pieces in the garden, and marked the spot
with the young slip of a St. Michael's pear-tree. There stood the old St. Michael's at this
day, a dead trunk, having long since ceased to bear either fruit or blossom or leaf; and many
a time had Helen persuaded Margaret and Frederick to take hoe and shovel and go with her to
dig round the roots of the old St. Michael's. Once, after the first digging, the ancient tree
surprised them by bursting into a cloud of blossoms, and bearing a crop of golden, juicy pears;
but that was the last sign of life it ever gave, and all the gold they ever found. There, too,
had been the wide, dark-eaved garrets full of moth-devoured relics of splendor; who knew what
might be lying hidden in those vast hair-covered chests? They were there no longer now; for
once, in an access of angry irreverence, Margaret had had them all dragged down, and had sold
their contents to the rag-man, and had made by her speculation cloaks for themselves and a
shawl for Frederick,--in the days when gentlemen condescended to lend to their stiff costume
the graceful dignity of a dropping fold or two. But what treasures of parchment might not have
been quilted into any one of those old brocaded petticoats? and who knew the unrevealed wealth
of that trunk of yellowed papers, that had brought only the sum of ten dollars in the rag-man's
scales? More than once Helen had started at the rap at the door, half expecting an announcement
that such and such a document had been found among that heap of trumpery, thought to have been
worthless as yellow autumn leaves, which would install them as the possessors of such and such
domain,--raps which usually brought nothing but a shoe-bill, or a demand for the price of the
previous winter's coal. All these idle day-dreams Helen wisely kept to herself and Tommy; for
there was not another member of the family whom they would not have aggravated out of endurance.

It was one day drawing on towards twilight in the latter part of November,--an afternoon of
the mild, sweet weather that always comes at that season, and always seems an accident. Frederick
had driven his mother out for her airing, and whether they had been beguiled by the soft air
into going too far, or had met with some accident or delay, they had not yet returned. Margaret
would have worried, had she herself yet come in from her classes; as for Helen, who would have
looked with a sanguine eye at her own shroud, she was sure no harm could happen while Frederick
had the reins. So she busied herself in giving things as cheerful an aspect as possible when
everybody should have reached home.

But, in the first place, there were no coals. Helen had caught a pain in her side picking up
the very last with her fingers. Nevertheless, she had put a bright face upon it, and, after
threatening to set fire to the house and run away by the light of it, had decided that it would
be better still to set fire to it and remain and be warmed by it, while Margaret declared they
would never know what luck was again till they had made soap from the ashes. All that, however,
had put nothing into the coal-bin.

Yesterday, Helen had received five dollars for transferring a piece of embroidery for a wealthy
acquaintance. She had hesitated about accepting it; it would be the first Fotherington that
ever took wages,--Margaret's pay was salary; but conscience put down pride, and she gave thanks,
and shut her purse,--and perhaps it broke the spell. In such a household one would have thought
there would of course be no question what to do with it. On the contrary, it was a grave question.
Should Tommy have a hat and Sarah a hood? should the mother have a shawl? should it buy a quarter
of a ton of coal? And there was the lyceum! Now, in the town where they lived, not to attend
the lyceum was not to be in society; last winter they had managed to effect one season-ticket,
and the girls had gone alternately, in a neighbor's company; this winter Frederick was at home,
and two tickets were desirable.

"Let us buy three tickets to the lyceum now," said Margaret.

"Same money would buy three turkeys," answered Helen, "and we're close on Thanksgiving and
Christmas."

"Yes, Nelly," cried Tommy, who was thoroughly tired of bread and molasses, "buy the turkeys."

"Be quiet, child," said the mother; "you can't go to the lyceum, you know; so don't be selfish."

"Well, which would be best," meditated Margaret, who had a way of spending other people's money
as well as her own,--"turkeys or tickets?"

"The turkeys will feast the whole family, the tickets only us three," said Helen.

"And then our bonnets are so shabby," said Margaret.

"Buy the turkeys, mother," pleaded Tommy, piteously.

"Hush now, Tommy! You've no voice in the debate," declared Margaret. "You're not a member of
the Lyceum Society."

"But I'm a member of the Turkey Society," urged Tommy, as a finishing argument.

The result of the conference was, that, as Frederick's shoes were fast approaching the character
of sandals with leathern thongs, they were surreptitiously subtracted from his bedside at night,
and their place filled by a pair of stout boots, which would carry him well into the winter.
That was yesterday. Meanwhile, to-day, no coals; no kindlings, if there had been; last year's
bill due, and dunned for; winter upon their heels; the night growing chilly. Helen wrapped
a cloak round little Sarah, and gave her her precious black rosary to play with, and bade Tommy
take excellent care of her, and for reward he need recite only half his usual spelling-lesson
when she came back. Then she ran up the hill behind the house,--she had reached that pass that
she did not care whether the neighbors saw or not,--and fell to gathering sticks. Once the
spot had been a wood-lot, now long since dispeopled of its dryads; a young sapling or two had
sprung up in place of the old growth, and boughs and twigs were blown there in the storms.
Helen came down with her arms full, and trailing a couple of great branches behind her. These,
at the back door, she broke up, reserving larger pieces for the parlor blaze, and the small
bits for a good kitchen fire; and, that done, decided to catch a couple of her choice chickens,
and decapitate them, although she shut her eyes and cut her own thumb in the course of the
procedure; these chickens, which were her special property, had been reserved by her for some
occasion, and when would there be a better than Frederick and her mother returning from so
late and unconscionable a jaunt, and doubtless shivering with the cold? This accomplished,
and the savory stew simmering over the stove, Helen washed her hands, that had nearly lost
their patrician shape and whiteness, took off her apron, and withdrew to the parlor. There
she found that Master Tommy had, some time since, left little Sarah to her own devices, and
she had forthwith broken the string, and scattered the beads of the rosary in every direction
upon the floor, while he stood breathing upon a distant window-pane, and drawing pictures with
his finger-tip on the groundwork thus effected, humming the while one of his favorite tunes
to himself.

"Now, Tommy," said Helen, "I'll hear your lesson."

"No, you won't," sang Tommy to his tune.

"Why not?"

"'Cause I can't say it."

"Then we'll learn it together. F-a-t-h, what does that spell?"

"Don't know," said Tommy, his finger in his mouth.

"See now if you can't remember," urged Helen, giving him each letter phonetically.

"Don't want to know," said Tommy.

Here, little Sarah, who had heard the lesson many times, informed him what the desired syllable
ought to be, and inferred the rest herself. Whereupon Helen proceeded to the next word. But
there Tommy proved obdurate, not only didn't know, and didn't want to know, but refused to
hear, and presented such a fearful example to his younger sister, that his elder one had no
resource but to transfer the cloak from Sarah to Tommy, and to shut him up in the dark closet.
That done, she laid the sticks together in the grate, that was never made for sticks, and blew
up a nice blaze, that warmed and lighted all the damp and dark old room; and, taking little
Sarah in her arms, rocked and sung her away to sleep.

It was a dismal room, and had been long deserted,--possibly owing to its former dreariness,
and possibly to the report of its haunted space and shadow; for over the chimney-piece was
the panel with the pale, proud face of old General Fotherington's dead wife painted on it,
which every midnight he was once believed to return and visit. But when other parts of the
house had fallen into hopeless disrepair, Helen had taken Tommy's little hatchet, and had felled
the lofty lilac-hedge that obscured all the southern windows of the room, had cleaned the old
paint, made good use of a bucket of white-wash, reset the broken glass herself, and then moved
chattels and personals into the vacancy, and given it a more homelike appearance than it had
worn for half a century. If the truth were known, Helen's chief fancy for the room, shaky and
insecure as both floor and ceiling seemed, was that dim panel-portrait blistering there above
the fire or peeling off with mouldy flakes in past days,--for she had still many a longing
for the old family-pictures that once her shiftless father, when put to his trumps, had sold
to adorn the halls of some upstart with forefathers.

"Tommy," said she softly, when little Sarah slept, "can you tell me what w-a-t-e-r spells?"

"No," said the stolid Tommy.

"Is it dark in there, Tommy?" asked she, half relenting, and yet half wishing to excite his
fears enough to conquer his obduracy.

"I don't know," answered Tommy, quite willing to converse, "I've got my eyes shut."

"Very well," said Helen, and went on with her low lullaby, which Tommy stoutly, but ineffectually,
attempted to join. The wind was beginning to rise and clatter at the casements, and sing its
own tune round the gable-corner; the dark had quite fallen, and the room was gloomy and vivid
by turns with the fitful flashes of the firelight.

"Nelly," said Tommy, wheedlingly, and shaking the lock of the closet, "I wish you'd give me
some. I'm real sirsty."

"Some what?" asked Helen, very willing to compromise.

"Some w-a-t-e-r. I'm so sirsty."

"Pronounce it, Tommy, and you shall come out and have some."

"I don't know how to," was the atrocious answer.

"And some chicken-broth as well as some water, if you'll only tell me what those five letters
spell."

But there was nothing but silence in reply from Tommy, and Helen resumed her song.

"It's real damp in here," said Tommy pretty soon, beginning to cough furiously. "I'm getting
a stiff neck."

"You have one already," said Helen; and, laying little Sarah down, she went to put on her apron,
to attend to her stew, to bring in the cloth and the tray of dishes, and to spread the supper-table
in the warm room,--set out near the fire, the worn white linen, the sparse silver, the rare
and gay old china, of which they used every day what would have decked out a modern drawing-room,
all clean and glittering as if viands were various and plentiful as color and sparkle. That
all done, again Cinderella sat down before the fire.

"'Elen!" said Tommy then in a muffled tone, having given the door another premonitory shake,
and as if his darkness induced metaphysics, "how many yesterdays have there been and how many
to-morrows are there going to be?"

"I'll tell you, Tommy, when you tell me what those letters spell." And again in response there
was silence on the part of the closet, broken by occasional kicks that shook the door, and
even caused the old panel to stir in its worm-eaten setting of oaken wainscot. As Helen looked
up after the silence that followed Tommy's demonstration, while the panel yet slightly stirred,
it seemed to her that a shiver ran over the lady painted there; she remembered the ghost-stories,
it made a shiver run over her herself. She rose and went to look out of the window and see
if there were no sign of the chaise,--it was hardly time for Margaret yet. Then she returned,
and her fascinated eyes caught again the eyes of the old Colonial Governor's lady, that lady
who was her mother many generations removed. It was a pale face painted there, as if the painter
had seen it only by moonlight,--dark eyes in which the lustre lay with an effect of restless,
searching radiance, and the delicate aquiline nose and thin and haughty lip spoke of a woman
capable of acting a secret in her day, and keeping it long after, Helen thought. Whenever she
caught the eye of that portrait,--and so curiously well was it painted, that she never looked
at it without catching the eye,--the lady shadowed there seemed to return a glance of defiance,
and her lip wore a curve of triumph. She kept one hand clasped over her crimson vest embroidered
with its golden tangles and purfles; perhaps in the other her secret hung hidden out of sight.
Now, in the dancing firelight, the ruby that lay on the dame's forehead seemed to flicker like
a live jewel in Helen's eyes; as the flame rose, her breast heaved too, a color rested on the
pale cheek; as it fell, Helen fancied that she sighed; with all the quick lightning and darkening
of the crackling fire the glance of the eyes shifted to and fro, the shadows round the mouth
wavered; now they lowered, and now they smiled, and now the parted lips seemed just about to speak.

Helen started to her feet in a tremble: no wonder Tommy hated to stay in the closet; she sprung
to let him out. And just then the old horse stopped at the gate, with the sound of Frederick's
voice. Helen forgot Tommy, flung open the door to Frederick, and ran out to the gate as he
appeared coming in with his mother in his arms, and laid her on the sofa. Helen only stayed
to lead the old horse into the barn, and directly afterward was blowing up the blaze in the
parlor, and calling the delinquents to account. They had driven into Orton Wood, Frederick
said, and there the chaise broke down; and it being in an open space, he had kindled a great
fire to keep his mother warm, while he tied the springs up as he might, which it took a weary
while to do, and he had brought home a chaiseful of fagots that nobody owned, and was cherishing
visions of future predatory excursions in the same direction. Immediately as he said it, wheeling
his mother's sofa up to the hearth and rubbing his hands before it, a little occurrence took
place that rendered his invaluable chaiseful of fagots of a moment ago the mere chips of this
one, for it had changed the earth under all their feet. Margaret was just coming in at the
door; Master Tommy, hearing the incoming and voices and confusion, and desiring to make a part
of it, called out from his den, "'Elen! let me out, let me out, I say. W-a-wa, t-e-r, water.
You know the Docker said I needed plenty of fresh air. 'Elen! let me out,--the Docker said
I was a pecoolar child and needed pecoolar treatment!" And before any one could reach him,
the belligerent boy gave the old door such an astonishing series of kicks and thrusts, that
the lock broke from its mouldering frame; the worn floor shook and creaked; a bit of the plastering
dropped from above; the door and Tommy fell out together; and the old portrait of the pale
proud lady started, and trembled, and pitched downward, caught and split from end to end upon
the handle of the great steel poker. And suddenly, with a wild exclamation of inextinguishable
certainty and exultation, Helen held up her apron to catch what came rattling and ringing and
racing and jingling, as they tumbled down together into it, and danced a measure over the floor
with the naughty nuns of the broken rosary-beads that they surprised in their mad escape from
the bondage of a hundred years. The pale and languid mother started up, resting eagerly on
her elbow; Margaret fell upon the floor, catching up the guineas and doubloons as if she were
crazy, and kissing them in a transport; Tommy began to discover what his pockets were made
for, straightway. Meanwhile Frederick sprung upon a chair and went to pulling out the thready
remnants of the decaying bags in which the gold had been enclosed; Helen still held her apron
up, thanking fortune it was so large; and little Sarah, waking, began to creep down and toddle
along to hold her apron too, crowing and capering at the strange scene, the glitter, and the
joy. At last there were no more,--there was only the memorandum on a bit of parchment, telling
the story of the sealing of the bags by the old Tory ancestor in troublous times, and their
destined concealment behind his wife's portrait.

"Here are more thousands of dollars than you have fingers and toes, little Cinderella!" cried
Frederick. "You can afford to wear glass slippers for the rest of your life! It is all your
godmother's doings, and she was a fine old English gentlewoman, who acted wisely and for the
benefit of posterity. Never say I disbelieved in my ancestors!"

"O yes," said Helen, "all very fine now. For my part, I was sure of it long ago!"

"I sha'n't dare to close an eye to-night for fear of burglars!" cried Margaret. "That I sha'n't!"

"Now mother, mother dear," exclaimed Helen, coming and taking her mother's thin hand and plunging
it deep down among the sliding coins that were tearing down her strong apron with their weight,
"'tis almost as much as I can carry! Tommy may go to school now, and you can have the Doctor
and get well, and what can't we, what sha'n't we have! Margaret needn't teach any more,--we
can have the house made over, we can keep a girl,--and gold at 240!--O, I think I shall lose
my wits!" And down it would all have gone upon the floor but for Frederick.

"Don't, Nelly," said he, "we shall want them,--the guineas I mean, of course not the wits.
What use have they been to us all these years, except to make gowns out of cobwebs and dinners
out of dew? Now let us count our wealth, and then--"

"No," said Nelly, "my stew will be good for nothing if we wait, and mother is famished. We're
comfortable, we know; if we're rich, we can find it out after supper. I wish I hadn't killed
my cropple-crowns. Now Tommy, Tommy Fotherington, you never need spell water again as long
as you live, for it was that blessed word that put Tommy in the closet, that kicked the door,
that shook the house, that loosened the panel, that poured out the guineas, that made the starving
Fotheringtons a richer and happier family than ever sat round the old Tory Governor's table!"

                                             Harriet E. Prescott.

FARMING FOR BOYS.

No. II.

(Continued from page 66.)

Tony King was particularly struck with the improvement in the coffee-mill, for his knuckles
had received a full share of the general skinning; and when the job was done, turning to the
old man, he said, "O, Uncle Benny, won't you teach me to do such things before you do all the
odd jobs about the farm?"

"Never fear that all the odd jobs about any farm, and especially such a one as this, are going
to be done in a hurry," he replied, laying his hand gently on Tony's head. "If the owner of
a farm, I don't care how small it may be, would only take time to go over his premises, to
examine his fences, his gates, his barn-yard, his stables, his pig-pen, his fields, his ditches,
his wagons, his harness, his tools, indeed, whatever he owns, he would find more odd jobs to
be done than he has any idea of. Why, my boy, all farming is made up of odd jobs. When Mr.
Spangler gets through with planting potatoes, don't he say, 'Well, that job's done.' Didn't
I hear you say yesterday, when you had hauled out the last load of manure from the barn-yard,--it
was pretty wet and muddy at the bottom, you remember,--'There's a dirty job done!' And so it
is, Tony, with everything about a farm,--it is all jobbing; and as long as one continues to
farm, so long will there be jobs to do. The great point is to finish each one up exactly at
the time when it ought to be done."

"But that was not what I meant, Uncle Benny," said Tony. "I meant such jobs as you do with
your tools."

"Well," replied the old man, "it is pretty much the same thing there. A farmer going out to
hunt up such jobs as you speak of will find directly, that, if he has no tool-chest on hand,
his first business will be to get one. Do you see the split in that board? Whoever drove that
nail should have had a gimlet to bore a hole; but having none, he has spoiled the looks of
his whole job. So it is with everything when a farmer undertakes any work without proper tools.
Spoiling it is quite as bad as letting it alone.

"You see, Tony," he continued, "that a good job can't be done with bad tools,--that split shows
it. No doubt the man who made it excused himself by saying that he was never intended for a
mechanic. But that was a poor excuse for being without a gimlet. Every man or boy has some
mechanical ability, and exercising that ability, with first-rate tools, will generally make
him a good workman. Now as to what odd jobs a farmer will find to do. He steps out into the
garden, and finds a post of his grape-arbor rotted off, and the whole trellis out of shape.
It should be propped up immediately. If he have hot-beds, ten to one there are two or three
panes out, and if they are not put in at once, the next hard frost will destroy all his plants.
There is a fruit-tree covered with caterpillars' nests, another with cocoons, containing what
will some day be butterflies, then eggs, then worms. The barn-yard gate has a broken hinge,
the barn-door has lost its latch, the wheelbarrow wants a nail or two to keep the tire from
dropping off, and there is the best hoe with a broken handle. So it goes, let him look where
he may.

"Now come out into the yard," continued the old man, "and let us see what jobs there are yet
to do."

He led the way to the wood-shed. There was an axe with only half a handle; Tony knew it well,
for he had chopped many a stick with the crippled tool. Uncle Benny pointed to it with the
screw-driver that he still carried in his hand, but said nothing, as he observed that Tony
seemed confounded at being so immediately brought face to face with what he knew should have
been done six months before. Turning round, but not moving a step, he again pointed with his
screw-driver to the wooden gutter which once caught the rain-water from the shed-roof and discharged
it into a hogshead near by. The brackets from one end of the gutter had rotted off, and it
hung down on the pig-pen fence, discharging into the pen instead of into the hogshead. The
latter had lost its lower hoops; they were rusting on the ground, fairly grown over with grass.
The old man pointed at each in turn; and, looking into Tony's face, found that he had crammed
his hands into his pockets, and was beginning to smile, but said nothing. Just turning about,
he again pointed to where a board had fallen from the farther end of the shed, leaving an opening
into the pig-pen beyond. While both were looking at the open place, three well-grown pigs,
hearing somebody in the shed, rose upon their hinder feet, and thrust their muddy faces into
view, thinking that something good was coming. The old man continued silent, looked at the
pigs, and then at Tony. Tony was evidently confused, and worked his hands about in his pockets,
but never looked into the old man's face. It was almost too much for him.

"Come," said Uncle Benny, "let us try another place," and as they were moving off, Tony stumbled
over a new iron-bound maul, which lay on the ground, the handle having been broken short off
in its socket.

"How the jobs turn up!" observed Uncle Benny. "How many have we here?"

"I should say about five," replied Tony.

"Yes," added the old man, "and all within sight of each other."

As they approached the hog-pen, they encountered a strong smell, and there was a prodigious
running and tumbling among the animals. They looked over the shabby fence that formed the pen.

"Any jobs here, Tony?" inquired Uncle Benny.

Tony made no answer, but looked round to see if the old man kept his screw-driver, half hoping
that, if he found anything to point at, he would have nothing to point with. But raising the
tool, he poised it in the direction of the feeding-trough. Tony could not avert his eyes, but,
directing them toward the spot at which the old man pointed, he discovered a hole in the bottom
of the trough, through which nearly half of every feeding must have leaked out into the ground
underneath. He had never noticed it until now.

"There's another job for you, Tony," he said. "There's not only neglect, but waste. The more
hogs a man keeps in this way, the more money he will lose. Look at the condition of this pen,--all
mud, not a dry spot for the pigs to fly to. Even the sheds under which they are to sleep are
three inches deep in slush. Don't you see that broken gutter from the wood-shed delivers the
rain right into their sleeping-place, and you know what rains we have had lately? Ah, Tony,"
continued the old man, "pigs can't thrive that are kept in this condition. They want a dry
place; they must have it, or they will get sick, and a sick pig is about the poorest stock
a farmer can have. Water or mud is well enough for them to wallow in occasionally, but not
mud all the time."

"But I thought pigs did best when they had plenty of dirt about them, they like it so," replied
Tony.

"You are mistaken, Tony," rejoined Uncle Benny. "A pig is by nature a cleanly animal; it is
only the way in which some people keep him that makes him a filthy one. Give him the means
to keep himself clean, and he will be clean always,--a dry shed with dry litter to sleep in,
and a pen where he can keep out of the mud when he wants to, and he will never be dirty, while
what he eats will stick to his ribs. These pigs can't grow in this condition. Then look at
the waste of manure! Why, there are those thirty odd loads of corn-stalks, and a great pile
of sweet-potato vines, that Mr. Spangler has in the field, all which he says he is going to
burn out of his way, as soon as they get dry enough. They should be brought here and put in
this mud and water, to absorb the liquid manure that is now soaking into the ground, or evaporating
before the sun. This liquor is the best part of the manure, its heart and life; for nothing
can be called food for plants until it is brought into a liquid condition. I never saw greater
waste than this. Then there is that deep bed of muck, not three hundred yards off,--not a load
of it ready to come here. Besides, if the corn-stalks and potato-vines were tumbled in, they
would make the whole pen dry, keep the hogs clean, and enable them to grow. But I suppose Mr.
Spangler thinks it too much trouble to do these little things.

"Now, Tony," he continued, "you can't do anything profitable or useful in this world without
some trouble; and as you are to be a farmer, the sooner you learn this lesson, the more easily
you will get along. But who is to do that job of putting a stopper over this hole in the trough,
you or I?"

"I'll do it to-morrow, Uncle Benny," replied Tony.

"To-morrow? To-morrow won't do for me. A job that needs doing as badly as this, should be done
at once; it's one thing less to think of, don't you know that? Besides, didn't you want to
do some jobs?" rejoined Uncle Benny.

Tony had never been accustomed to this way of hurrying up things; but he felt himself fairly
cornered. He didn't care much about the dirt in the trough; it was the unusual promptness of
the demand that staggered him.

"Run to the house and ask Mrs. Spangler to give you an old tin cup or kettle,--anything to
make a patch big enough to cover this hole," said Uncle Benny; "and bring that hammer and a
dozen lath-nails you'll find in my tool-chest."

Tony did as he was directed, and brought back a quart mug with a small hole in the bottom,
which a single drop of solder would have made tight as ever.

"I guess the swill is worth more to the hogs than even a new mug would be, Tony," said Uncle
Benny, holding up the mug to the sun, to see how small a defect had condemned it. Then, knocking
out the bottom, and straightening it with his hammer on the post, he told Tony to step over
the fence into the trough. It was not a very nice place to get into, but over he went, and,
the nails and hammer being handed to him, he covered the hole with the tin, put in the nails
round the edge, hammered the edge flat, and in ten minutes all was done.

"There, Tony, is a six months' leak stopped in ten minutes. Nothing like the present time,--will
you remember that? Never put off till to-morrow what can be done to-day. Now run back with
the hammer and these two nails, and put this remnant of the tin cup in my chest; you'll want
it for something one of these days. Always save the pieces, Tony."

Tony was really surprised, not only how easily, but how quickly, the repair had been made.
Moreover, he felt gratified at being the mechanic; it was the first time he had been allowed
to handle any of Uncle Benny's nice assortment of tools, and he liked the old man better than
ever. But who is there that does not himself feel inwardly gratified at conferring a new pleasure
on a child? Such little contributions to juvenile happiness are neither barren of fruit nor
unproductive of grateful returns. They cost nothing, yet they have rich rewards in the memory
of the young. They make beautiful and lasting impressions. The gentle heart that makes a child
happy will never be forgotten. No matter how small the gift may be, a kind word, a little toy,
even a flower, will sometimes touch a chord within the heart, whose soft vibrations will continue
so long as memory lasts.

This survey of Mr. Spangler's premises was continued by Uncle Benny and Tony until the latter
began to change his opinion about the former doing up the odd jobs so thoroughly that none
would be left for him. He saw there was enough for both of them. The old man pointed out a
great many that he had never even noticed; but when his attention was called to them, he saw
the necessity of having them done. Indeed, he had a notion that everything about the place
wanted fixing up. Besides, Uncle Benny took pains to explain the reasons why such and such
things were required, answering the boy's numerous questions, and imparting to him a knowledge
of farm wants and farm processes, of which no one had ever spoken to him.

The fact was, Uncle Benny was one of the few men we meet with, especially on a farm, who think
the boys ought to have a chance. His opinion was, that farmers seldom educate their children
properly for the duties they know they will some day be called on to perform,--that is, they
don't reason with them, and explain to the boy's understanding the merit or necessity of an
operation. His idea was, that too many boys on a farm were merely allowed to grow up. They
were fed, clothed, sent to school, then put to work, but not properly taught how and why the
work should be done. Hence, when they came to set up for themselves, they had a multitude of
things to learn which they ought to have learned from a father.

He used to say, that boys do only what they see the men do,--that all they learned was by imitation.
They had no opportunity allowed them while at home of testing their own resources and energies
by some little independent farming operation of their own. When at school, the teacher drills
them thoroughly; when at home, they receive no such close training. The teacher gives the boy
a sum to do, and lets him work it out of his own resources. But a farmer rarely gives a boy
the use of a half-acre of land, on which he may raise corn or cabbages or roots for himself,
though knowing that the boy could plant and cultivate it if he were allowed a chance, and that
such a privilege would be likely to develop his energies, and show of what stuff he was made.
The notion was too common that a boy was all work, and had no ambition,--whatever work was
in him must be got out of him, just as if he had been a horse or an ox. It was known that at
some time he must take care of himself, yet he was not properly taught how to do so. The stimulant
of letting him have a small piece of ground for his own profit was too rarely held out to him.
No one knew what such a privilege might do for an energetic boy. If he failed the first year,
he would be likely to know the cause of failure, and avoid it in the future. If he succeeded,
he would feel an honest pride,--the very kind of pride which every father should encourage
in his child. And that success would stimulate him to try again and do still better. Both failure
and success would be very likely to set him to reading about what others had done in the same
line,--how they had prospered,--and thus a fund of knowledge would be acquired for him to draw
upon whenever he set up for himself.

As before mentioned, Mr. Spangler made a strange departure from his rule of plenty of work
for everybody, by quitting home on a wet day and going to the tavern rendezvous, to hear what
the neighbors had to say, leaving no work marked out for his "hands" to do in his absence.
These wet days were therefore holidays for the boys. All three were pretty good readers; and
so they usually borrowed a book from Uncle Benny, and went, on such occasions, into the barn,
and lay down on the hay to read. Uncle Benny recommended to them that one should read aloud
to the others, so as to improve his voice, and enable each to set the other right, if a mistake
were made. When the weather became too cold for these readings in the barn, they went into
the kitchen, there being no other room in the house in which a fire was kept up.

One November morning there came on a heavy rain that lasted all day, with an east wind so cold
as to make the barn a very uncomfortable reading-room, so the boys adjourned to the kitchen,
and huddled around the stove. But as the rain drove all the rest of the family into the house,
there was so great an assembly in what was, at the best of times, a very small room, that Mrs.
Spangler became quite irritable at having so many in her way. She was that day trying out lard,
and wanted the stove all to herself. In her ill-humor at being so crowded up, she managed to
let the lard burn; and at this she became so vexed that she told Tony, with Joe and Bill, to
go out,--she couldn't have them in her way any longer.

They accordingly went back to the barn, and lay down in the hay, covering themselves with a
couple of horse-blankets. These were not very nice things for one to have so close to his nose,
as they smelt prodigiously strong of the horses; but farmers' boys are used to such perfumes,
and they kept the little fellows so warm that they were quite glad to escape the crowd and
discomfort of the kitchen. These became at last so great, that even Uncle Benny, seeing that
he was not wanted there just then, got up and went over to the barn also. There he found Tony
reading aloud from a newspaper that had been left at the house by a pedler a few days before.
Tony was reading about the election, and how much one set of our people were rejoicing over
the result.

As Uncle Benny came into the barn, Tony called out, "Uncle Benny, the President's elected,--did
you know it?"

"O yes, I knew it,--but what President do you mean?" responded Uncle Benny.

"Why, President Lincoln. He was a poor boy like me, you know."

"But can you tell me, boys," asked Uncle Benny, "who will be President in the year 1900?"

"Dear me, Uncle Benny," replied Tony, "how should we know?"

"Well, I can tell," responded the old man.

The boys were a good deal surprised at hearing these words, and at once sat up in the hay.

"Who is he?" demanded Tony.

"Well," replied Uncle Benny, "he is a boy of about your age, say fifteen or sixteen years old."

"Does he live about here?" inquired Bill, the youngest of the party.

"Well, I can't say as to that," answered the old man, "but he lives somewhere on a farm. He
is a steady, thoughtful boy, fond of reading, and has no bad habits; he never swears, or tells
a lie, or disobeys his parents."

"Do you think he is as poor as we are, Uncle Benny?" said Joe.

"Most likely he is," responded the old man. "His parents must be in moderate circumstances.
But poverty is no disgrace, Joe. On the contrary, there is much in poverty to be thankful for,
as there is nothing that so certainly proves what stuff a boy is made of, as being born poor,
and from that point working his way up to a position in society, as well as to wealth."

"But do poor boys ever work their way up?" inquired Tony.

"Ay, many times indeed," said Uncle Benny. "But a lazy, idle boy can do no such thing,--he
only makes a lazy man. Boys that grow up in idleness become vagabonds. It is from these that
all our thieves and paupers come. Men who are successful have always been industrious. Many
of the great men in all countries were born poorer than either of you, for they had neither
money nor friends. President Lincoln, when he was of your age, was hardly able to read, and
had no such chance for schooling as you have had. President Van Buren was so poor, when a boy,
that he was obliged to study his books by the light of pine knots which he gathered in the
woods. President Lincoln for a long time split rails at twenty-five cents a hundred. But see
how they got up in the world."

"But I thought the Presidents were all lawyers," said Tony.

"Well, suppose they were," replied Uncle Benny; "they were boys first. I tell you that every
poor boy in this country has a great prospect before him, if he will only improve it as these
men improved theirs. Everything depends on himself, on his own industry, sobriety, and honesty.
They can't all be Presidents, but if they should all happen to try for being one, they will
be very likely to reach a high mark. Most of the rich men of our country began without a dollar.
You have as fair a chance of becoming rich or distinguished as many of them have had. You must
always aim high."

"But how are we to make a beginning?" demanded Joe.

"I'll tell you," replied Uncle Benny. But at that moment a loud blast from the tin horn summoned
them to dinner. They all thought it the sweetest music they had heard that day, and hurried
off to the house.

                                        Author of "Ten Acres Enough."

                              (To be continued.)

SNOW-FANCIES.

          O snow! flying hither
          And hurrying thither,
    Here, there, through the air,--you never care whither,--
          Do you see me here sitting,
          A-knitting, a-knitting,
    And wishing myself with you breezily flitting,
          Like any wild elf?

          Mother sits there a-rocking,
          And watches my stocking;
    Well, I know I am slow, and she thinks it is shocking:
          While Lizzie and Sally,
          They twit me, and rally,--
    My thoughts, half asleep, chase your flakes to the valley,
          A drowsy white heap.

          Dear Sally and Lizzie,
          My sisters so busy,
    In and out, all about, you make my head dizzy;
          You hasten, you flutter,
          You spin, you churn butter,
    You sew the long seams; while I cannot utter
          One word of my dreams.

          Lo! light as a feather,
          The merry flakes gather
    In rifts and in drifts, glad enough of cold weather;
          Gay throngs interlacing,
          On the slant roofs embracing,
    They slip and they fall! down, down they are racing,
          I after them all!

          One large flake advances;
          'Tis a white steed that prances;
    At the bits as he flits, how he foams, like my fancies!
          Up softly I sidle
          From where I sit idle,--
    I snatch, as it flies, at the gossamer bridle,--
          I'm mounted, I rise!

          Away we are bounding,
          No hoof-note resounding,
    Still as light is our flight through the armies surrounding;
          No murmur, no rustling,
          Though millions are jostling;
    A host is in camp, but you heard neither bustling
          Nor bugle, nor tramp.

          Yet the truce-flag is lifted;
          Unfurled it lies drifted
    Over hill, over rill, where its snow could be sifted;
          And now I'm returning
          To parley concerning
    The beautiful cause that awakened my yearning,--
          The trouble that was.

          Ho! ho! a swift fairy,--
          A pearl-shallop airy!
    I am caught, quick as thought! fleece-muffled and hairy,
          Her grim boatman tightens
          His grasp, till it frightens
    Me, half, as we sail to the east where it brightens,
          On waves of the gale.

          White, dimpled, and winning,
          The fairy sits spinning,
    From her hair, floating fair, coils of cable beginning,
          Her shallop to tether
          In stress of bleak weather,
    While the boatman and I, wrapped in ermine together,
          Drift on through the sky.

          Stay! the boat is upsetting!
          My fairy, forgetting
    Her coil and her toil, to escape from a wetting
          Has now the one notion:
          Below boils the ocean!
    I scream,--I am heard,--up, in arrowy motion,
          I'm borne by a bird,--

          A gray eagle!--over
          The seas flies the rover;
    And I ride as his guide, a new world to discover.
          He bears me on, steady,
          Through whirlwind and eddy;
    I cling to his neck, and he ever is ready
          To pause at my beck.

          White doves through the ether
          Come flocking together.
    How they crowd to me, proud if I smooth one soft feather!
          O what is the matter?
          They startle,--they scatter!
    On the wet window-pane hear my eagle's claws clatter!--
          The snow's turned to rain!

          Tears, why will you glitter?
          My sisters they titter,
    And there from her chair mother calls, "What a knitter!"
          My ball pussy twitches,--
          I've dropped twenty stitches,--
    My needles all rust,--they will earn me no riches;
          Alas if they must!

                                  Lucy Larcom.

THE BABY OF THE REGIMENT.

We were in our winter camp on Port Royal Island, South Carolina. When a regiment is on picket,
the main camp is usually much smaller, because most of the companies are scattered about at
outposts, and but few are left at head-quarters.

                                             T. W. Higginson.

THE RED-WINGED GOOSE.

Once upon a time, when the rocks that make the earth were not so gray, and the beard of the
sea-waves not so hoary,--when the stars winked at each other and said nothing, and the man
in the moon thought of getting married,--once upon a time, I say, there lived on the edge of
a pine-forest in Bohemia a poor peasant named Otto Koenig.

Little enough the nine had to share with Meister Hans, as they called the jackdaw, for they
lived on black beans and black rye-bread. Sometimes a bit of smoked bacon was found in the
beans on great feast-days, and sometimes in summer wild berries helped the dry bread to savor
and sweetness; but oftener the poor pig's-flesh and the red strawberries were put into a rush
basket, covered with great cool leaves, on top of the eggs that lay so smooth and white below,
and Otto carried them to Prague, when he went there at full moon to sell the turpentine he
gathered in the pine-forest. With the money he got there he bought serge to clothe the nine
children, rancid oil to burn in the clay lamp that sometimes they lighted in the long winter
evenings, or some coarse pottery for larger vessels than he could hew out of dead branches
with his dull hatchet. But it took all the coin that ever rattled in his sheep-skin pouch to
buy any clothes or enough food for the nine black-eyed children who ran about in rags, and
always wanted more bread and beans than poor Marthon, their brown, hard-working mother, had
to give them.

At last, one winter there came a dreadful famine in Bohemia. There was no rye for the fowls,
or the bread; it was blasted in the ear during a wet summer; and that same summer had given
so little sunshine to the fields that no berries ripened; the turnips rotted in the ground,
so the pig had nothing to eat; and between cold and starvation, quite tired of his wet sty
and empty trough, master pig gave a loud squeak one November day, struggled out of his moist
lodgings into a pool of water hard by, and died. For all that he was eaten up, because the
nine children wanted food, whatever it might be, and the jackdaw scolded loudly for bread,
but got less and less daily.

To be sure, the turpentine ran faster and clearer than ever from the trees, but then it was
worth less to the old Jew who bought it, and the striped red serge and rancid oil were dearer
than ever; so the children ate their supper by the light of the pine-cones they gathered in
the forest, and went to bed to keep warm, where Mihal, the youngest boy, told them long stories
of the old days in Bohemia, when there were fierce witches with steeple-crowned hats and flame-colored
cloaks, who were burned to death in the market-place of Prague, and their ashes scattered on
the waters of the Elbe, to find no rest on earth or in the water,--and legends of gnomes and
elves that worked with little swarthy hands in the mountain mines, and hid their treasures
away from human miners, unless spell and incantation brought them to light, and then the gnomes
would scream and sob in the deep caverns till the miners fled away for fear.

These stories Mihal had learned from his old grandmother, who died the year before the famine.
She used to sit in the open air knitting, or spinning with a distaff, and the scarlet yarn
that trailed across the gray jacket and green petticoat glowed in the sun like a thread of
crawling fire, and seemed to keep time to her droning voice, as she poured story after story
into the wide-open ears of the child nestled on her feet.

But all these pretty tales of Mihal did not keep his eight brothers and sisters warm. Zitza,
the least of all, cried herself to sleep often, and woke with hunger, wailing, in the sad and
quaint accents of her land, for bread and berries. These were sorrowful sounds for poor Otto
Koenig; he knew well the eager pain for food that forced that cry from the child's lips,--for
his black crust was as small as it could be to keep him alive, and his cup of sour beer was
only a quarter filled. Often, as he shouldered the rude axe with which he gashed the trees,
and wandered out into the forest, the spicy smell of the pine-boughs seemed to make him sick
and giddy, he was so faint with hunger; and instead of the hymns the wind used to sing in the
long green tufts of leaves, there was a rush of unearthly whispering laughter, and mocking
voices said in the poor man's ear, "Bread and beer! bread and beer!" chorused with another
rustle of laughter; whereat the unlucky man, half crazed, would bless himself devoutly, and,
taking to his heels, run like a scared cony till the woods were far behind him.

In the hut things went worse still; in vain did Matthias, the oldest of the nine children,
take his twin sister into the fields to search the brambles for stray hips, or locks of wool
the sheep had not left there willingly; men and women even worse off had been there before
them, and they came home at night, tired out and footsore, only to hear Zitza's fretful cry
for food, and the constant chatter of Meister Hans, croaking for his own share in what they
had not.

One night, when Mihal had told more wonderful stories than ever, and fairly talked the other
eight to sleep, he was still awake himself. Nothing stirred on the side of the hut where the
children lay sleeping on some straw covered with sheep-skins, but Meister Hans, who, perched
for the night on the arm of the grandmother's empty chair, rustled his blue-black wings now
and then. But as Mihal lay thinking and hungry, his looks turned restlessly toward the uneasy
bird; and presently he saw the creature's eyes begin to shine through the darkness brighter
and brighter, till they made the room so light that one could plainly see the eight sleeping
children, the straw-bed from which Father Koenig's snores were loudly heard, Mother Marthon's
petticoat and red jacket hung against the wall, and the old black chair with the fiery-eyed
jackdaw perched on one arm. Mihal lifted himself on his elbow and rubbed his eyes. Yes, it
was really so! Meister Hans nodded gravely to him, and, hopping down to the floor, turned his
eyes toward the boy, nodded again, croaked circumspectly, and walked with odd, precise steps
toward the door, which was screened from the cold by a rough mat hung inside, and again turning,
repeated the nod and the croak, as if he were inviting Mihal to follow him. The child gathered
his rags more closely about him, and stepped across the threshold, at which Meister Hans gave
a very satisfied croak and hopped along.

In a strange, dreamy way Mihal followed the movements of the bird, stumbling over hard furrows,
bruising his feet against stones, falling into ditches, but still straight after his odd guide,
who peered at him now and then with one fiery eye, and wagged his head. Beside this stone Meister
Hans paused, and, looking hard at the boy, deliberately picked up an acorn, and, hopping to
the side of the little gravelly basin, dropped his mouthful into the fountain, and returned
to the flat stone, where Mihal stood wondering much what was to follow.

Presently the jackdaw approached the stone and knocked upon it three times. She made a reverence
to the bird and Mihal, and in a shrill, eager voice invited them to come in. The boy hesitated,
but the little old woman snatched his hand and pulled him in. A draught of warm air and a delicious
smell of food invited him still more charmingly, he was so cold and hungry, and he passed through
the cleft stone to find himself in a high round cavern, of shining, sparkling crystals, that
glittered like jewels whenever the light of the old woman's iron lamp shone across them. She
opened a low door in the side of this cavern, and beckoned her companions to follow.

As Meister Hans hopped gravely past all this toward the chair of the Dwarf-king, making profound
reverences all the way, the little monarch stretched out his sceptre, which was a tall bulrush
of gold, and touched the jackdaw on the head, whereat, to Mihal's great wonder, his old friend
turned suddenly into just such another little old woman as the one who had brought them in.

After another low reverence to the king, she turned to Mihal and made him aware, by a long
speech, that she had been turned into a jackdaw for twenty years, because she had once presumed
to say that gold was not so yellow as buttercups, or so bright as sunshine,--a statement altogether
against the belief and laws of the dwarf; but now her punishment was over, and, knowing that
she would never go back to the earth again, because she had lived there long enough to know
better, and had learned that gold was the best of all things, she had resolved to bring little
Mihal with her, (for she loved him almost as much as gold, and quite as well as silver, he
was such a good boy), and persuade her master to grant him one wish before he left the cavern.

The king readily consented to do this, but ordered that the boy and his friendly guide should
take their places at the table and be served with supper first, for well he knew that a hungry
child's first wish must be for food.

The king had scarce given this order before a quick pair of hands stripped a tender sucking-pig
from the spit, another filled a golden bowl with smoking stew from the caldron, another poured
wine and ale into the clear goblets, and a fourth heaped porcelain dishes from every simmering
pot and pipkin on the hearth; rolls of bread whiter than hoar-frost, and piles of purple and
golden fruit followed, while the half-starved boy warmed his fingers at the blaze, and then
ate and drank his fill of such viands as he had never before tasted, even in dreams. But when
he could do no more good trencher-service, and the little old woman reminded him of the wish
he was to ask the Dwarf-king to grant, he sat a long time pondering this important matter.

Now, among the legends that his old grandmother had recounted was one that had made especial
impression on his fancy,--an old Bohemian tradition of a red-winged goose, followed by six
goslings, which traversed the forests and valleys in the dead of winter, uncaught and unhurt,
for hundreds of years, though whoever was so skilful or so lucky as to catch the goose would
after that succeed in all his undertakings. Mihal bethought himself, as he sat there, that
perhaps the Dwarf-king was master of this wonderful bird, and could give him the prize at once,
without delay or toil; so he slid from his seat at the table, and, approaching the king, made
known his request.

The dwarf fixed his keen eyes sharply on the child, and shook his grizzled head from side to
side before he spoke, in his rough but kindly voice, and said: "I cannot do that for thee,
little one! All the treasures in my mountain, or the heart of the dumb earth, could not buy
for thee the red-winged goose. She must be caught; but there is only one way to this end, and
that way hitherto hath no mortal known. He who would capture the goose must first have caught
the goslings, and that not by two or three, or as he may choose to trap them, but always the
nearest one first, which is ever the last, seeing that they follow her in line, unbroken and
unwavering. Thou must take them one by one, and in their order, child, however sorely tempted
to break the sequence. Keep thine eye and thy labor for the nearest one, and at last the red-winged
goose itself will reward thy patience."

Mihal heard and treasured up the Dwarf-king's orders, spoke his simple thanks, bowing low,
and, after a gay farewell to the little old woman who had been his jackdaw, went his way into
the upper air; and just as the sun arose, touching the pine-tree tops with fire, he came to
his father's hut, where the eight children were rubbing their eyes and Zitza crying for her
breakfast. No one knew that Mihal had been farther than the door-sill, nor did he tell the
clamorous brood of children what he had seen, lest they should mock it as a dream, or attempt
the pursuit themselves.

So he went patiently about his work, helped them look for Meister Hans, whom all mourned for
many a day,--excepting Mihal, who well knew how much better off the jackdaw was than in any
of the pitiful conditions they fancied, and the parents, who were too thankful to gain even
the bird's small share of bread for their wasted and fretful children.

But after nightfall Mihal crept softly from his straw in the corner, tied a sheep-skin across
his shoulders, and, with his uneaten supper, a crust of black bread, in the bosom of his ragged
shirt, stole softly out of the door to seek his fortune. About two miles from the hut there
was a clear space in the pine forest, where there stood a great stone cross, at the foot of
which a tiny spring slept in the grass, and overflowed softly on the crisp turf at all seasons.
At this place Mihal resolved to wait for the flight of the red-winged goose, and he knew the
forest paths so well that a short half-hour brought him to the open glade. He knelt and bathed
his face in the spring, drank deeply of its pure and tranquil waters, and then leaned back
against the foot of the cross to eat his crust and wait till moon-rise. Overhead the dark blue
sky seemed to be higher than ever, and the bright stars sparkled so kindly, and looked so much
like watchful eyes to guard and bless him, that Mihal felt no fear, but gazed upward into the
quiet depths of air so long that he fell fast asleep and dreamed about the Dwarf-king's hill-palace.

                                             Rose Terry.

                              (To be continued.)

AFLOAT IN THE FOREST:

OR, A VOYAGE AMONG THE TREE-TOPS.

CHAPTER VI.

THE MONKEY-POTS.

"The Gapo?" exclaimed the master of the craft. "What is it, Munday?"

"The Gapo?" repeated Tipperary Tom, fancying by the troubled expression on the face of the
Indian that he had conducted his companions toward some terrible disaster. "Phwat is it, Munday?"

"Da Gapoo?" simultaneously interrogated the negro, the whites of his eyeballs shining in the
moonlight. "What be dat?"

The Mundurucú made reply only by a wave of his hand, and a glance around him, as if to say,
"Yes, the Gapo; you see we're in it."

The three interrogators were as much in the dark as ever. Whether the Gapo was fish, flesh,
or fowl, air, fire, or water, they could not even guess. There was but one upon the galatea
besides the Indian himself who knew the signification of the word which had created such a
sensation among the crew, and this was young Richard Trevannion.

"It's nothing, uncle," said he, hastening to allay the alarm around him; "old Munday means
that we've strayed from the true channel of the Solimoës, and got into the flooded forest,--that's
all."

"The flooded forest?"

"Yes. What you see around us, looking like low bushes, are the tops of tall trees. We're now
aground on the branches of a sapucaya,--a species of the Brazil-nut, and among the tallest
of Amazonian trees. I'm right,--see! there are the nuts themselves!" As the young Paraense
spoke, he pointed to some pericarps, large as cocoa-nuts, that were seen depending from the
branches among which the galatea had caught. Grasping one of them in his hand, he wrenched
it from the branch; but as he did so, the husk dropped off, and the prism-shaped nuts fell
like a shower of huge hailstones on the roof of the toldo. "Monkey-pots they're called," continued
he, referring to the empty pericarp still in his hand. "That's the name by which the Indians
know them; because the monkeys are very fond of these nuts."

"But the Gapo?" interrupted the ex-miner, observing that the expressive look of uneasiness
still clouded the brow of the Mundurucú.

"It's the Indian name for the great inundation," replied Richard, in the same tranquil tone.
"Or rather I should say, the name for it in the lingoa-geral."

"And what is there to fear? Munday has frightened us all, and seems frightened himself. What
is the cause?"

"That I can't tell you, uncle. I know there are queer stories about the Gapo,--tales of strange
monsters that inhabit it,--huge serpents, enormous apes, and all that sort of thing. I never
believed them, though the tapuyos do; and from old Munday's actions I suppose he puts full
faith in them."

"The young patron is mistaken," interposed the Indian, speaking a patois of the lingoa-geral.
"The Mundurucú does not believe in monsters. He believes in big serpents and monkeys,--he has
seen them."

"But shure yez are not afeerd o' them, Munday?" asked the Irishman.

The Indian only replied by turning on Tipperary Tom a most scornful look.

"What is the use of this alarm?" inquired Trevannion. "The galatea does not appear to have
sustained any injury. We can easily get her out of her present predicament, by lopping off
the branches that are holding her."

"Patron," said the Indian, still speaking in a serious tone, "it may not be so easy as you
think. We may get clear of the tree-top in ten minutes. In as many hours--perhaps days--we
may not get clear of the Gapo. That is why the Mundurucú shows signs of apprehension."

"Ho! You think we may have a difficulty in finding our way back to the channel of the river?"

"Think it, patron! I am too sure of it. If not, we shall be in the best of good luck."

"It's of no use trying to-night, at all events," pursued Trevannion, as he glanced uncertainly
around him. "The moon is sinking over the tree-tops. Before we could well get adrift, she'll
be gone out of sight. We might only drift deeper into the maze. Is that your opinion, Munday?"

"It is, patron. We can do no good by leaving the place to-night. Wiser for us to wait for the
light of the sun."

"Let all go to rest, then," commanded the patron, "and be ready for work in the morning. We
need keep no look-out, I should think. The galatea is as safe here as if moored in a dry dock.
She is aground, I take it, upon the limb of a tree! Ha! ha! ha!"

The thought of such a situation for a sailing craft--moored amid the tops of a tall tree--was
of so ludicrous a nature as to elicit a peal of laughter from the patron, which was echoed
by the rest of the crew, the Mundurucú alone excepted. His countenance still preserved its
expression of uneasiness; and long after the others had sunk into unconscious sleep, he sat
upon the stem of the galatea, gazing out into the gloom, with glances that betokened serious
apprehension.

CHAPTER VII.

THE GAPO.

The young Paraense had given a correct, although not sufficiently explicit, account of the
sort of place in which the galatea had gone "aground."

That singular phenomenon known as the Gapo (or Ygapo), and which is one of the most remarkable
characteristics of the great Amazonian region, demands a more detailed description. It is worthy
of this, as a mere study of physical geography,--perhaps as pleasant a science as any; and
furthermore, it is here absolutely necessary to the understanding of our tale. Without some
comprehension of the circumstances that surrounded them, the hardships and sufferings endured,
the adventures accomplished, and the perils passed by the crew of the strayed galatea, would
appear as so many fabulous inventions, set forth to stimulate and gratify a taste for the merely
marvellous. Young reader, this is not the aim of your author, nor does he desire it to be the
end. On the contrary, he claims to draw Nature with a verisimilitude that will challenge the
criticism of the naturalist; though he acknowledges a predilection for Nature in her wildest
aspects,--for scenes least exposed to the eye of civilization, and yet most exposed to its
doubting incredulity.

There are few country people who have not witnessed the spectacle of a piece of woodland inundated
by the overflow of a neighboring stream. This flood is temporary; the waters soon subside into
their ordinary channel, and the trees once more appear growing out of terra firma, with the
green mead spreading on all sides around them. But a flooded forest is a very different affair;
somewhat similar in character indeed, but far grander. Not a mere spinney of trees along the
bank of a small stream; but a region extending beyond the reach of vision,--a vast tract of
primeval woods,--the tall trees submerged to their very tops, not for days, nor weeks, but
for months,--ay, some of them forever! Picture to your mind an inundation of this kind, and
you will have some idea of the Gapo.

Extending for seventeen hundred miles along the banks of the Solimoës, now wider on the northern,
now stretching farther back from the southern side, this semi-submerged forest is found, its
interior almost as unknown as the crater-like caverns of the moon, or the icy oceans that storm
or slumber round the Poles,--unknown to civilized man, but not altogether to the savage. The
aboriginal of Amazonia, crouching in his canoe, has pierced this water-land of wonders. He
could tell you much about it that is real, and much that is marvellous,--the latter too often
pronounced fanciful by lettered savans. He could tell you of strange trees that grow there,
bearing strange fruits, not to be found elsewhere,--of wonderful quadrupeds, and quadrumana,
that exist only in the Gapo,--of birds brilliantly beautiful, and reptiles hideously ugly;
among the last the dreaded dragon serpent, "Sucuriyu." He could tell you, moreover, of creatures
of his own kind,--if they deserve the name of man,--who dwell continuously in the flooded forest,
making their home on scaffolds among the tree-tops, passing from place to place in floating
rafts or canoes, finding their subsistence on fish, on the flesh of the manatee, on birds,
beasts, reptiles, and insects, on the stalks of huge water-plants and the fruits of undescribed
trees, on monkeys, and sometimes upon man! Such Indians as have penetrated the vast water-land
have brought strange tales out of it. We may give credence to them or refuse it; but they,
at least, are firm believers in most of the accounts which they have collected.

It is not to be supposed that the Gapo is impenetrable. On the contrary, there are several
well-known water-ways leading through it,--well known, I mean, to the Indians dwelling upon
its borders, to the tapuyos, whose business it is to supply crews for the galateas of the Portuguese
traders, and to many of these traders themselves. These water-ways are often indicated by "blazings"
on the trees, or broken branches, just as the roads are laid out by pioneer settlers in a North
American forest; and but for these marks, they could not be followed. Sometimes, however, large
spaces occur in which no trees are to be seen, where, indeed, none grow. There are extensive
lakes, always under water, even at the lowest ebb of the inundation. They are of all sizes
and every possible configuration, from the complete circle through all the degrees of the ellipse,
and not unfrequently in the form of a belt, like the channel of a river running for scores
of miles between what might readily be mistaken for banks covered with a continuous thicket
of low bushes, which are nothing more than the "spray" of evergreen trees, whose roots lie
forty feet under water!

More frequently these openings are of irregular shape, and of such extent as to merit the title
of "inland seas." When such are to be crossed, the sun has to be consulted by the canoe or
galatea gliding near their centre; and when he is not visible,--by no means a rare phenomenon
in the Gapo,--then is there great danger of the craft straying from her course.

When within sight of the so-called "shore," a clump of peculiar form, or a tree topping over
its fellows, is used as a landmark, and often guides the navigator of the Gapo to the igarita
of which he is in search.

It is not all tranquillity on this tree-studded ocean. It has its fogs, its gales, and its
storms,--of frequent occurrence. The canoe is oft shattered against the stems of gigantic trees;
and the galatea goes down, leaving her crew to perish miserably in the midst of a gloomy wilderness
of wood and water. Many strange tales are told of such mishaps; but up to the present hour
none have received the permanent record of print and paper.

Be it our task to supply this deficiency.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE ECHENTE.

It would not be true to say that the crew of the galatea were up with the sun. There was no
sun to shine upon the gloomy scene that revealed itself next morning. Instead, there was a
fog almost thick enough to be grasped with the hand. They were astir, however, by the earliest
appearance of day; for the captain of the galatea was too anxious about his "stranded" craft
to lie late abed.

They had no difficulty in getting the vessel afloat. A strong pull at the branches of the sapucaya,
and then an adroit use of the paddles, carried the craft clear.

But what was the profit of this? Once out in the open water, they were as badly off as ever.
Not one of them had the slightest idea of the direction they would take, even supposing they
could find a clear course in any direction! A consultation was the result, in which all hands
took part, though it was evident that, after the patron, most deference was paid to the Mundurucú.
The young Paraense stood next in the scale of respect; while Tipperary Tom, beyond the account
which he was called upon to give of his steersmanship, was not permitted to mingle his Hibernian
brogue in the discussion.

Where was the river? That was the first problem to be solved, and of this there appeared to
be no possible solution. There was no sun to guide them; no visible sky. Even had there been
both, it would scarce have mended the matter. The steersman could not tell whether, on straying
from the channel, he had drifted to the south or the north, the east or the west; and, indeed,
an intellect less obtuse than that of Tipperary Tom might have been puzzled upon the point.
It has been already mentioned, that the Solimoës is so tortuous as to turn to every point of
the compass in its slow course. The mere fact that the moon was shining at the time could be
of little use to Tipperary Tom, whose astronomy had never extended beyond the knowledge that
there was a moon.

Where lay the river? The interrogatory was repeated a score of times, without receiving a satisfactory
answer; though every one on board--the little Rosita excepted--ventured some sort of reply,
most, however, offering their opinion with a doubting diffidence. The Mundurucú, although repeatedly
appealed to, had taken small part in the discussion, remaining silent, his eyes moodily wandering
over the water, seeking through the fog for some clew to their escape from the spot.

No one plied the paddles; they had impelled her out of sight of the sapucaya, now shrouded
in the thick fog; but, as it was useless paddling any farther, all hands had desisted, and
were now resting upon their oars. At this moment it was perceived that the galatea was in motion.
The Mundurucú was the first to notice it; for his attention had for some time been directed
to such discovery. For this reason had he cast his searching glances, now down into the turbid
waters, and now out through the murky atmosphere. A thicket was discernible through the fog,
but every moment becoming less distinct. Of course it was only a collection of tree-tops; but
whatever it was, it soon became evident that the galatea was very slowly receding from it.
On discovering this, the Mundurucú displayed signs of fresh animation. He had been for some
minutes lying upon his face, craning out over the gangway, and his long withered arms submerged
in the water. The others occupied themselves in guessing what he was about; but their guesses
had been to no purpose. Equally purposeless had appeared the actions of the Indian; for, after
keeping his arm under water for a period of several minutes, he drew it in with a dissatisfied
air, and once more arose to his feet. It was just then that he perceived the tree-tops, upon
which he kept his eyes sharply fixed, until assured that the galatea was going away from them.

"Hoola!" he exclaimed, attempting to imitate the cry he had more than once heard issuing from
the lips of Tipperary Tom. "Hoola! the river is out there!" As he spoke, he pointed towards
the tree-tops.

It was the first confident answer to the all-important question.

"How can you tell that, Munday?" inquired the captain of the craft.

"How tell, patron? How tell day from night, the moon from the sun, fire from water? The Solimoës
is there." The Indian spoke with his arm still extended in the direction of the trees.

"We are willing to believe you," rejoined Trevannion, "and will trust to your guidance; but
pray explain yourself."

"It's all guess-work," interpolated Tipperary Tom. "Ould Munday knows no more av fwat he's
talkin' about than Judy Fitzscummons's mother. I'll warrant ye we come in from the tother side."

"Silence, Tom!" commanded his master. "Let us hear what Munday has to say. You have no right
to contradict him."

"Och, awance! An Indyen's opinion prefarred before that ov a freeborn Oirishman! I wondher
what nixt." And as Tipperary completed his chapter of reproaches, he slank crouchingly under
the shadow of the toldo.

"So you think the river is there?" said Trevannion, once more addressing himself to the Mundurucú.

"The Mundurucú is sure of it, patron. Sure as that the sky is above us."

"Remember, old man! It won't do for us to make any mistake. No doubt we've already strayed
a considerable distance from the channel of the Solimoës. To go again from it will be to endanger
our lives."

"The Mundurucú knows that," was the laconic reply.

"Well, then, we must be satisfied of the fact, before we can venture to make a move. What proof
can you give us that the river lies in that direction?"

"Patron! You know the month? It is the month of March."

"Certainly it is. What of that?"

"The echente."

"The echente? What is that?"

"The flood getting bigger. The water on the rise,--the Gapo still growing,--that is the echente."

"But how should that enable you to determine the direction of the river?"

"It has done so," replied the Indian. "Not before three months--in June--will come the vasante."

"The vasante?"

"The vasante, patron: the fall. Then the Gapo will begin to grow less; and the current will
be towards the river, as now it is from it."

"Your story appears reasonable enough. I suppose we may trust to it. If so," added Trevannion,
"we had better direct our course towards yonder tree-tops, and lose no time in getting beyond
them. All of you to your paddles, and pull cheerily. Let us make up for the time we have lost
through the negligence of Tipperary Tom. Pull, my lads, pull!"

At this cheering command the four paddlers rushed to their places; and the galatea, impelled
by their vigorous strokes, once more glided gayly over the bosom of the waters.

CHAPTER IX.

AN IMPASSABLE BARRIER.

In a few moments the boat's bow was brought within half a cable's length of the boughs of the
submerged trees. Her crew could see that to proceed farther, on a direct course, was simply
impossible. With equal reason might they have attempted to hoist her into the air, and leap
over the obstruction that had presented itself before them.

Not only were the branches of the adjoining trees interlocked, but from one to the other straggled
a luxurious growth of creepers, forming a network so strong and compact that a steamer of a
hundred horse-power would have been safely brought to a stand among its meshes. Of course no
attempt was made to penetrate this impenetrable chevaux de frise; and after a while had been
spent in reconnoitring it, Trevannion, guided by the counsel of the Mundurucú, ordered the
galatea to go about, and proceed along the selvage of the submerged forest. An hour was spent
in paddling. No opening. Another hour similarly employed, and with similar results!

The river might be in the direction pointed out by the Indian. No doubt it was; but how were
they to reach it? Not a break appeared in all that long traverse wide enough to admit the passage
of a canoe. Even an arrow could scarce have penetrated among the trees, that extended their
parasite-laden branches beyond the border of the forest! By tacit consent of the patron, the
paddlers rested upon their oars; then plied them once more; and once more came to a pause.

No opening among the tree-tops; no chance to reach the channel of the Solimoës. The gloomy
day became gloomier, for night was descending over the Gapo. The crew of the galatea, wearied
with many hours of exertion, ceased paddling. The patron did not oppose them; for his spirit,
as well as theirs, had become subdued by hope long deferred. As upon the previous night, the
craft was moored among the tree-tops, where her rigging, caught among the creepers, seemed
enough to keep her from drifting away. But very different from that of the preceding night
was the slumber enjoyed by her crew. Amidst the boughs of the sapucaya, there had been nothing
to disturb their tranquillity, save the occasional shower of nuts, caused by the cracking of
the dry shells, and the monkey-pots discharging their contents. Then was the galatea "grounded"
upon a solitary tree, which carried only its own fruit. To-night she was moored in the middle
of a forest,--at all events upon its edge,--a forest, not of the earth, nor the air, nor the
water, but of all three,--a forest whose inhabitants might be expected to partake of a character
altogether strange and abnormal. And of such character were they; for scarce had the galatea
become settled among the tree-tops, when the ears of her crew were assailed by a chorus of
sounds, that with safety might have challenged the choir of Pandemonium. Two alone remained
undismayed,--Richard Trevannion and the Mundurucú.

"Bah!" exclaimed the Paraense, "what are you all frightened at? Don't you know what it is, uncle?"

"I know what it resembles, boy,--the Devil and his legions let loose from below. What is it, Dick?"

"Only the howlers. Don't be alarmed, little Rosita!"

The little Peruvian, gaining courage from his words, looked admiringly on the youth who had
called her "little Rosita." Any one could have told that, from that time forward, Richard Trevannion
might have the power to control the destinies of his cousin.

"The howlers! What are they?" inquired the old miner.

"Monkeys, uncle; nothing more. From the noise they make, one might suppose they were as big
as buffaloes. Nothing of the kind. The largest I ever saw was hardly as stout as a deerhound,
though he could make as much noise as a whole kennel. They have a sort of a drum in the throat,
that acts as a sound-board. That's what enables them to get up such a row. I've often heard
their concert more than two miles across country, especially in prospect of an approaching
storm. I don't know if they follow this fashion in the Gapo; but if they do, from the way they're
going it now, we may look out for a trifling tornado."

Notwithstanding the apparent unconcern with which young Trevannion declared himself, there
was something in his manner that arrested the attention of his uncle. While pronouncing his
hypothetical forecast of a storm, he had turned his glance towards the sky, and kept it fixed
there, as if making something more than a transient observation. The fog had evaporated, and
the moon was now coursing across the heavens, not against a field of cloudy blue, but in the
midst of black, cumulous clouds, that every now and then shrouded her effulgence. A dweller
in the tropics of the Western hemisphere would have pronounced this sign the certain forerunner
of a storm; and so predicted the young Paraense. "We'll have the sky upon us within an hour,"
said he, addressing himself more especially to his uncle. "We'd better tie the galatea to the
trees. If this be a hurricane, and she goes adrift, there's no knowing where we may bring up.
The likeliest place will be in the bottom of the Gapo."

"The young patron speaks truth," interposed Munday, his eyes all the while reading the signs
of the heavens. "The Mundurucú knows by yonder yellow sky."

As he spoke, the Indian pointed to a patch of brimstone-colored clouds, conspicuous over the
tops of the trees. There was no reason why Ralph Trevannion should not give credit to the two
weather-prophets, who could have no personal motive in thus warning him. He yielded, therefore,
to their solicitation; and in ten minutes more the galatea was secured among the tree-tops,
as fast as cords could make her.

                                             Mayne Reid.

CHRISTMAS BELLS.

    I heard the bells on Christmas Day
    Their old, familiar carols play,
      And wild and sweet
      The words repeat
    Of peace on earth, good-will to men!

    And thought how, as the day had come,
    The belfries of all Christendom
      Had rolled along
      The unbroken song
    Of peace on earth, good-will to men!

    Till, ringing, singing on its way,
    The world revolved from night to day
      A voice, a chime,
      A chant sublime
    Of peace on earth, good-will to men!

    Then from each black, accursed mouth,
    The cannon thundered in the South,
      And with the sound
      The carols drowned
    Of peace on earth, good-will to men!

    It was as if an earthquake rent
    The hearth-stones of a continent,
      And made forlorn
      The households born
    Of peace on earth, good-will to men!

    And in despair I bowed my head;
    "There is no peace on earth," I said;
      "For hate is strong
      And mocks the song
    Of peace on earth, good-will to men!"

    Then pealed the bells more loud and deep:
    "God is not dead; nor doth he sleep!
      The Wrong shall fail,
      The Right prevail,
    With peace on earth, good-will to men!"

                                  Henry W. Longfellow.

ANDY'S ADVENTURES;

OR, THE WORLD BEWITCHED.

In an instant Andy stopped turning, and saw sitting on the grass right before him the most
beautiful white rabbit, with the softest fur and the longest ears that ever were.

"O Bunny!" cried Andy, delighted; and he stepped forward to smooth the lovely creature with
his hand.

He had scarcely touched it, when it gave a little hop, and sat down again, just out of his reach.

"Bunny, Bunny! poor Bun!" cried Andy, coaxingly, creeping after it, as eager to catch it as
ever a cat was to put her paw on a mouse. "I won't hurt you! Poor, poor Bunny!"

But the rabbit watched him with its mild, timid eyes, and gave two leaps, as light as a feather,
and as noiseless, and sat down again by the garden fence. Andy crept up, still coaxing, and
promising not to hurt it; and when he had got quite near, he spread out both hands, gave a
spring like a cat, and caught a whole handful of grass right where the pretty creature had
sat that very instant; but it was gone, and, looking over the fence, he saw it hopping away
across the garden, from cabbage to cabbage, from hill to hill of the potatoes, in the airiest
and most graceful manner, but not half as fast as a boy could run. So Andy resolved to chase
it; and getting over the fence, he hurried across the garden, and came up to it just as it
was perched for a moment like a bird on the top of a slender weed, which did not bend in the
least beneath its weight. Andy grasped eagerly with both hands, and caught the weed between
them; but away went the rabbit over the next fence, and across a large sunny pasture, making
wonderful leaps, so long and light and high that sometimes it seemed to sail in the air on wings.

Andy ran after it, wild with excitement. Now it slipped through his fingers just as he pounced
upon it, and tumbled headlong into a bunch of thistles. Now it floated in the air quite above
his head, while he reached up and jumped, and ran on tiptoe after it, until he hit his foot
against a stone, which he was looking too high to see, and nearly broke his shin in falling.
Then it skipped along close upon the ground, stopping when he stopped, and seeming to invite
him to come and catch it, but darting away again the moment he thought he had it fairly in
his hands.

At last it squatted down against a stump, in a large, hilly field full of stumps and stones
and ploughed ground, where Andy had never been before.

Almost crying, he was so vexed and tired and far from home, he came up to the stump. Bunny
did not stir, but only winked a little, and pricked up its pretty ears.

"Now I'll have you!" And Andy sprang upon it, catching it with both hands. "I've got you! I've
got you! I've got you!" he cried, in high glee. "Now, my pretty, naughty--ho!" said Andy, with
the greatest amazement.

For lo! on opening his hands, he found that the thing he had given such a chase, and caught
at last, was nothing but a little ball of thistle-down, which had been blown before him by
the wind!

There he held it, and rubbed his eyes as he looked at it, and wondered; then he began to remember
what Mother Quirk had said to him; and he would have given a good deal just then to have been
back again at the well, as he was before the angry old woman boxed his ear. He was afraid she
had bewitched him.

He looked at the thistle-down again and again, and turned it over, and picked it to pieces
a little, then brushed it off from his hand, when, O wonderful! it immediately changed to a
dove, and flew into the sky! But he found that he had pulled out some of its feathers, and
still held one beautiful long white quill in his fingers.

Now he was sorry he had not kept it. And he would have got up and run after it again; but just
then, happening to look where he had thrown the feathers down by the stump, he saw one of the
strangest sights in the world.

A little bit of a fellow, not so large as the end of his thumb, opened a little bit of a door
in the side of the stump, walked out, and looked around as if he had heard a noise about his
house, and wished to see what had happened.

"Tom Thumb!" exclaimed Andy, in the greatest surprise and delight.

He had lately read the history of that famous little dwarf; and he had often thought he would
give all his playthings just to make his acquaintance.

"Tom Thumb! Tom Thumb! how do you do?" he said.

But as Tom walked about, and paid no attention to him, he thought perhaps he had not addressed
him respectfully enough. So he said,--"I beg your pardon, Mr. Thumb! I hope you are pretty
well, Mr. Thumb."

At that the little gentleman took off his hat, and made the politest little bow imaginable.

"My name is Andy. I have read about you. Come, let's be friends."

Mr. Thumb made some reply, but in such a very small voice that Andy could not understand a word.

"Speak again, Mr. Thumb, if you please."

And Andy put his head down to hear. But Tom appeared to be afraid; and, opening the little
door again, he stepped back into the stump.

"Hello! come out again!" cried Andy. "Won't you? Then I'll find you!"

And with the dove's quill he forced the door of Tom Thumb's house, and penetrated the entry.
At that he heard a confused murmuring and muttering and shouting; and, pulling away the feather,
he saw rush out after it a dozen little fellows, all as angry as they could be.

"Excuse me, gentlemen!" said Andy, as soon as he had recovered from his astonishment. "I didn't
mean any harm. Did I hurt anybody?"

They did not answer, but kept running to and fro, and talking among themselves, and darting
in and out of the door, as if to see what damage had been done.

Andy watched them with the greatest interest. They were all dressed in the gayest style, and
very much alike. They had on black velvet caps, striped with gold, and with long plumes that
waved over their heads. They wore the handsomest little tunics, of stuff as much finer than
silk as silk is finer than the bark of a tree. They had on beautiful bright yellow scarfs,
and their tunics were bordered with fringes of the richest orange-color, and their trousers
were all of dark velvet and cloth of gold. They dangled the neatest little swords at their
sides, in golden scabbards; and three or four of them clapped their hands furiously on the
hilts; and one, seeing the feather which Andy pushed at them, drew out the finest little black
steel blade, not near so large as a needle, threw himself into a noble fencing attitude, and
made an impetuous lunge, thrusting and brandishing his weapon in the bravest manner.

Andy laughed gleefully, but stopped laughing, to wonder, when he saw another of the little
warriors shake out the folds of a marvellous little cloak that covered his back, and, spreading
it on the air, sail aloft with all his flashing colors, sword and plumes. He came straight
to Andy's ear, and said something in a voice of thunder, and even made a cut or two at the
boy's hair; then darted away out of sight.

By this time the little doorway in the stump was crowded with these strange little people.
Some hurried to and fro, muttering and shaking their cloaks, some sailed aloft, and others
passed in and out of the door,--all very much excited. Andy also noted several new-comers,
who seemed quite surprised, on arriving, to find the little community in such confusion. The
most of them brought some kind of plunder,--tiny bags of gold, armfuls of a minute kind of
yellow-ripe grain, silks and satins of the fine quality mentioned,--which they hastened to
hide away in their dwelling.

But what astonished Andy most of anything was the appearance of a wonderful little lady, who
walked out among the warriors like a queen. She was extremely small-waisted, although otherwise
very portly. She wore hoops of the most extraordinary extension, which made her appear three
or four times as large as the largest of her subjects. She walked with a haughty air, fanning
herself with a little gossamer fan, while her servants went backwards before her, spreading
down the cunningest little carpets for her to tread upon. She was magnificently attired; her
dress, of the costliest materials, the most gorgeous pattern, and the widest dimensions, was
covered all over with the most splendid little fringes and flounces which it is possible to
conceive. Her countenance, although very beautiful, was angry, and full of scorn, and she appeared
scolding violently, as she strode to and fro on the royal carpets.

Andy was almost beside himself with delight and amazement, as he watched these proceedings.
At length he said,--"These are not Tom Thumb's people, but a nation of fairies! O what a lucky
boy I am!"

For it is not every boy, you know, that has the good fortune to discover these rare little
people. They are in fact so seldom seen, that it is now generally believed that no such beings
exist except in story-books. Andy had read about them with a great deal of interest; and although
he had never been quite convinced that what was said of them was really true, he could now
no longer have a doubt on the subject. He had not only discovered the home of the fairies,
but he had seen the fairy queen.

And as Andy was a selfish boy, who wished to possess every strange or pretty thing he saw,
he felt an ardent desire to seize and carry away the beautiful and scornful little being, who
walked up and down on the carpets, scolding, and fanning herself with the gossamer fan.

"I will put her under a tumbler," he said, "and keep her there until I can have a glass cage
made for her. And I will make all the little fairy people come and be my servants, as they
will have to if I carry off their queen. And I will show her to everybody who comes. And everybody
will wonder so! O what a lucky boy I am!"

So saying, he formed his plan for capturing Her Majesty. Being anxious to take her alive, and
carry her off without doing her any personal harm, he resolved to put her into his hat and
tie his handkerchief over it. Having got everything in readiness, he stooped down very carefully,
and extended his hand. Nobody seemed to be frightened; and the next moment the fairy queen
was fast between his thumb and finger.

"Ha, ha!" cried Andy; "the first time trying! Hurrah!" And he lifted her up to put her into
his hat.

But instantly the tiny creature began to struggle with all her might, and rustle her silks,
and--queen as she was--scratch and bite in the sharpest manner. And at the same time the bravest
little warriors flew to the rescue; shrewdly darting at Andy's face, as if they knew where
to strike; and suddenly, while he was laughing at their rage, he got a thrust in his forehead,
and another in his neck, and a third under his sleeve, where a courageous little soldier had
rushed in and resolutely driven in his rapier up to the hilt! Andy, who had no idea such little
weapons could hurt so, was terrified, and began to scream with pain. And now, strange to see!
the fairies were no longer fairies, but a nest of bumblebees; it was the queen-bee he held
in his fingers; and two of them had left their stings sticking in his wounds!

Andy dropped the queen-bee, left his hat and handkerchief by the stump, and began to run, screaming
and brushing away the bees, that still followed him, buzzing in his hair, and stinging him
where they could. He did not stop until he had run half across the fallow, and the last of
the angry swarm that pursued him had ceased buzzing about his ears.

"Oh! oh! oh!" he sobbed, with grief, and disappointment, and the pain of the stings. "I didn't
know they were bumblebees! And I've lost my hat! And I don't know where I am! Oh! oh! oh!"
And he sat down on a stone and cried.

"Whoa! hush, haw!" said a loud voice.

And looking up through his tears, he saw an old farmer coming, with a long whip in his hand,
driving a yoke of oxen. Andy stopped weeping to ask where he was, and the way home.

"About a peck and a half a day," replied the farmer.

Andy did not know what to make of this answer. So he said again,--"Can you tell me where my
father and mother live?"

"One in one stall, and the other in the other. Hush, haw!" cried the farmer.

"I've got lost, and I wish you'd help me," said Andy.

"Star and Stripe," replied the farmer.

"How far is it to my father's?" the poor boy then asked.

"Well, about ninety dollars, with the yoke," said the farmer. "Whoa, back!"

At this Andy felt so vexed, and weary, and bewildered, that he could not help sobbing aloud.

"What!" said the farmer, angrily; "making fun of me?" And he drew up his whip to strike.

"O, I wasn't making fun!" said Andy, frightened.

"You stopped me, and asked how much corn I feed my oxen; and I told you. Then where I feed
them; and I told you that. Then their names; and I said, Star and Stripe. Then what I would
sell them for; and I gave a civil answer. And now you're laughing at me!" said the farmer,
raising his whip again.

Then Andy perceived that, whenever he said anything, he seemed to say something else, and that
his weeping appeared to be laughter, and that, if he stayed there a moment longer, he would
surely get a whipping. So he started to run, with the owner of the oxen shouting at his heels.

"There! take that for being saucy to an old man!" cried the farmer, fetching him a couple of
sharp cuts across the back. Then he returned to his oxen, and drove them away; while Andy got
off from the fallow as soon as he could, weeping as if his heart would break.

Seeing not far off a beautiful field of clover, the boy thought he would go and lie down in
it, and rest.

He had never seen such clover in his life. It was all in bloom with blue and red and white
flowers, which seemed to glow and sparkle like stars among the green leaves. How it waved and
rippled and flashed in the sunshine, when the wind blew! Andy almost forgot his grief; and
surely he had quite forgotten that nothing was now any longer what it appeared, when he waded
knee-deep through the delicious clover, and laid himself down in it. No sooner had he done
so than he saw that what he had mistaken for a field was a large pond, and he had plunged into
it all over like a duck.

Strangling and gasping for breath, and drenched from head to foot, Andy scrambled out of the
water as fast as he could. His hair was wet; and little streams ran into his eyes and down
his cheeks. His ears rang with the water that had got into them. He was so frightened that
he hardly knew what had happened. And in this condition he sat down on the shore to let his
clothes drip, and to empty the water out of his shoes.

                                             J. T. Trowbridge.

                              (To be continued.)

OUR COUNTRY NEIGHBORS. He was industrious in his way, and would have made a capital soldier
under McClellan. A regiment like him would have made nothing of trench-digging, could they
have been properly drilled.

So you see how many neighbors we found by living in the woods, and, after all, no worse ones
than are found in the great world.

                                             Harriet Beecher Stowe.

WINNING HIS WAY.

CHAPTER II. [TN: Continued from Vol. He remembered it for many a day.

                                             Carleton.

TRAPPED IN A TREE.

A BACKWOODS ADVENTURE.

Among the many queer characters I have encountered, in the shadow of the forest or the sunshine
of the prairie, I can remember none queerer than Zebulon Stump, or old Zeb, as he was familiarly
known. "Kaintuck by birth and raisin'," as he described himself, he was a hunter of the Daniel
Boone sort. The chase was his sole calling; and he would have indignantly scouted the suggestion
that he ever followed it for mere amusement. Though not of ungenial disposition, he held all
amateur hunters in lordly contempt; and his conversation with such was always of a condescending
character, although he was not, after all, averse to their company. Being myself privileged
with his acquaintance, many of my hunting excursions were made in company with Old Zeb. He
was in truth my guide and instructor, as well as companion, and initiated me into many mysteries
of American woodcraft.

One of the most inexplicable of these mysteries was Old Zeb's own existence; and I had known
him for a considerable time before I could unravel it. He stood six feet high in his boots
of alligator-skin, into the ample tops of which were crowded the legs of his coarse "copperas"
trousers; while his other garments were a deer-skin shirt, and a blanket coat that had once
been green, but, like the leaves of the autumnal forest, had become sere and yellow. A slouched
felt hat shaded his cheeks from the sun upon the rare occasions when Old Zeb strayed beyond
the shadow of the "timber." Where and how he lived were the two points that most required explanation.
In the tract of virgin forest where I usually met him, there was neither house nor hut. So
said the people of Grand Gulf, the small town upon the Mississippi where I was staying. Yet
Old Zeb had told me that in this forest was his "hum." It was only after our acquaintance had
ripened into strong fellowship, that I had the pleasure of spending an hour under his humble
roof. It consisted of the hollow trunk of a gigantic sycamore-tree, still standing and growing!
Here Old Zeb found shelter for himself, his squaw,--as he termed Mrs. Stump,--his household
goods, and the tough old nag that carried him in his wanderings. His establishment was no longer
a puzzle,--though there was still the mystery of how he maintained it. A skilled hunter might
easily procure food for himself and family; but even the hunter disdains a diet exclusively
game. There were the coffee, the "pone" of corn-bread, the corn itself necessary for the "critter,"
the gown that wrapped the somewhat angular outlines of Mrs. Stump, and many other things that
could not be procured by a rifle. Even the rifle itself required food not to be found in the
forest.

Presuming on our intimacy, I asked, "How do you manage to live? You don't appear to make anything,
nor do I see any signs of cultivation. How then do you support yourselves?"

"Them duds thar," answered my host, pointing to a corner of his tree-cabin. I looked and saw
the skins of several animals,--among which I recognized those of the "painter," "possum," and
"'coon," along with a haunch or two of recently killed venison. "I sell 'em, boy; the skins
to the storekeepers, and the deer-meat to anybody as 'll buy it."

Old Zeb's shooting appeared marvellous to me. He could "bark" a squirrel in the top of the
tallest tree, or kill it by a bullet through its eye. He used to boast, in a quiet way, that
he never spoilt a skin, though it was only that of a "contemptible squir'l."

What most interested me was his tales of adventure, of which he was often the hero; one possessed
especial interest, partly from its own essential oddness, and partly from its hinging on a
phenomenon which I had more than once witnessed. I allude to the "caving in," or breaking down,
of the banks of the Mississippi River, caused by the undermining of the current, when large
strips of land, often whole acres, thickly studded with gigantic trees, slip into the water,
to be "swished" away with a violence eclipsing the fury of fabled Charybdis. It was at the
time of these land-slides that old Zeb had met with this adventure, which, by the way, came
very near killing him.

I shall try to set it forth in his own piquant patois, as nearly as I can transcribe it from
the tablets of my memory. I was indebted for the tale to a chance circumstance, for old Zeb
seldom volunteered a story, unless something suggested it. We had killed a fine buck, that
had run several hundred times his length with the bullet in his body, and fallen within a few
feet of the bank of the great river. While stopping to dress him, old Zeb looked around keenly,
exclaiming, "If this ain't the place whar I war trapped in a tree! Thar's the very saplin' itself!"

I looked at the "saplin'." It was a swamp cypress of some thirty feet in girth, by at least
a hundred and fifty in height.

"Trapped in a tree!" I echoed with emphatic interest, perceiving that he was upon the edge
of some odd adventure; and, desirous of tempting him to the relation, I continued: "Trapped
in a tree! How could that be with an old forester like you?"

"It dud be, howsomedever," was the quaint reply of my companion; "an' not so very long agone,
neyther. Ef ye'll sit down a bit, I'll tell ye all, as I kin tell it; for I hain't forgotten
neery sarcumstance; an' I'll lay odds, young feller, thet ef ever you be as badly skeeart,
you'll carry the recollection o' that skeer ter yer coffin.

"Ye see, kumrade, I war out arter deer jest as we are the day; only it had got to be nigh sundown,
i'deed, an' I hedn't emptied my rifle the hul day. Fact is, I hedn't sot eye on a thing wuth
a charge o' powder an' lead. I war afut; an' it are a good six mile from this to my shanty.
I didn't like goin' home empty-handed, specially as I knowed we war empty-housed; an' the ole
'ooman wanted somethin' to git us a pound or two o' coffee an' sugar with. So I thort I shed
stay all night i' the wuds, trustin' to gettin' a shot at a stray buck or a turkey in the early
mornin'. I war jest in this spot; but it looked quite different then. The hul place about hyar
war kivered wi' the tallest o' cane, an' so thick, a coon ked sca'ce worm his way through it;
but sence then the under-scrub's all been burnt out. So I tuk up my quarters for the night
under that 'ere big cyprus. The ground war dampish; for thar hed been a spell o' rain. So I
tuk out my bowie, an' cut me enough o' the green cane to make a sort o' a shake-down. It war
comf'table enough; an' in the twinklin' o' a buck's tail, I war soun' asleep. I slep' like
a possum, till daybreak, an' then I war awoke by the worst noises as ever rousted a feller
out o' his slumber. I heerd a skreekin' an' screamin' an' screevin', as ef all the saws in
Massissippi wor bein' sharped 'ithin twenty yards o' my ear. It all kim from overhead,--from
out the top o' the cyprus; an' it war the callin' o' the baldy eagles; it wa'n't the fust time
I had listened to them hyar. 'That's a neest,' sez I to myself; 'an' young 'uns, too. That's
why the birds is makin' sech a rumpis.' Not that I cared much about a eagle's nest, nor the
birds neyther. But jest then I remembered my ole 'ooman had told me that there war a rich Englishman
at the tavern in Grand Gulf who offered no eend o' money for a brace o' young baldy eagles.

"So in coorse I clomb the tree. 'T warn't so easy as you may s'pose. Thar war forty feet o'
the stem 'ithout a branch, an' so smooth thet a catamount kedn't 'a' scaled it. I thort at
fust that the cyprus wa'n't climable no how; but jest then I seed a big fox grape-vine, that,
arter sprawlin' up another tree clost by, left it an' sloped off to the one whar the baldies
had thar nest. This war the very thing I wanted,--a sort o' Jaykup's ladder; an', 'ithout wastin'
a minit, I shinned up the grape-vine. The shaky thing wobbled about, till I war well-nigh pitched
back to the groun'; an' thar war a time when I thort seriously o' slippin' down agin.

"But then kim the thort o' the ole 'ooman, an' the empty larder, along wi' the Englishman an'
his full purse; an' bein' freshly narved by these recollections, I swarmed up the vine like
a squir'l. Once upon the cyprus, thar warn't no differculty in reachin' the neest. Thar war
plenty o' footing among the top branches whar the birds had made thar eyeray. But it warn't
so easy to get into the neest. Thar kedn't 'a' been less than a wagon-load o' sticks in it,
to say nothin' o' Spanish moss, an' all sorts o' bones o' fish and four-footed animals. It
tuk me nigh a hour to make a hole, so that I ked git my head above the edge, an' see what the
neest contained. As I expected, thur war young 'uns in it,--two o' them about half feathered.

"All this time the old birds were abroad lookin' up a breakfast, I suppose, for thar chicks.
'How disappointed they'll be!' sez I to myself, 'when they come back an' find that the young
'uns have fled the neest, without feathers!'

"I war too sure o' my game, an' too curious about the young baldies, watching them, as they
cowered clos't thegither, hissin' an' threatenin' me, to take notice o' anythin' besides. But
I war roused by feelin' the hat suddintly snatched from my head, an' at the same time gettin'
a scratch acrost the cheek, that sent the blood spurtin' out all over my face. It was from
the talon o' the she-eagle, while the ole cock war makin' a confusion o' noises as if he hed
jest come all a-strut from the towers o' Babylon. I had grupped one o' the young baldies, but
I war only too glad to lot it go an' duck my head under the nest, till the critters were tired
threatenin' me, an' guv up the attack. By this time I guv up all thought o' takin' the young
eagles. Arter my scratch, I war contented to leave 'em alone, an' no Englishman's gold ked
hev bought that brace o' birds. I only waited a bit to rekiver myself, an' then I commenced
makin' back-tracks down the tree.

"I hed got 'bout half-way to the place whar the fox-grapes tuck holt o' the cyprus, when I
was stopped by a sound far more terrefic than the screech o' the eagles. It was the creakin'
an' crashin' o' timber along wi' that unairthly rumblin' ye may hear when the banks o' the
Massissippi be a cavin' in, as they war then. I ked see the trees that stood atween me an'
the river trimblin' and tossin' about, an' then goin' with a loud swish, an' a plunge, into
the fast flowin' current o' the stream. The cyprus itself shook, as if the wind war busy among
its branches. I felt a suddint jerk upon it, an' then it righted agin', an' stood steady as
a rock. The eagles above screamed wuss than iver, while Zeb Stump below war tremblin' like
an aspick.

"I know'd well enough what it all meant, but knowin' didn't give me any great satesfaction,
since I believed that in another minit the cyprus mout cave in too! I didn't stay the ten thousanth
fraction o' a minit. I hurried to get back to the groun'; an' soon reached the place whar the
grape-vine joined on to the cyprus. Thur warn't no grape-vine to be seen. It war clear gone!
The tother tree to which its roots had been clingin' had gone into the river, takin' the fox-grape
along wi' it. It war that gev the pluck I felt when descendin' fro' the neest. I looked below.
The river had changed its channel. Instead o' runnin' twenty yards from the spot, it war surgin'
along clost to the cyprus, which in another minit mout topple over, whirl along, and be swallowed
in the frothin' water.

"I ked do nuthin' but stay whar I war,--nothin' but wait an' watch,--listenin' to the screamin'
o' the eagles,--skeeart like myself,--the hoarse roarin' o' the angry water, an' the crashin'
o' the trees, as one arter another fell victims to the flood."

I was fascinated by this narration. Old Zeb's thoughts, notwithstanding the patois in which
they were expressed, had risen to the sublime; and although he paused for some minutes, I made
no attempt to interrupt his reflections, but in silence awaited the continuance of his tale.

"Wal, what do ye suppose I did nixt?" asked Zeb.

"Really, I cannot imagine," I replied, considerably astonished by Old Zeb's abrupt and unexpected
question.

"Wal, ye don't suppose I kim down from the tree?"

"I don't see how you could."

"Neyther did I, for I kedn't. I mout as well 'a' tried to git down the purpendiklar face o'
the Chickasaw bluffs, or the wall o' Jackson Court-House. So I guv it up, an' stayed whar I
war, cross-legs on a branch o' the tree. It warn't the most comf'table kind o' seat; but I
hed somethin' else than cushions to think of. I didn't know the minit I mout be shot out into
the Massissippi; an' as I niver war much o' a swimmer,--to say nothin' o' bein' smashed by
the branches in fallin',--I warn't over satesfied wi' my sitiwation.

"So I passed the hull o' that day; tho' thar warn't an easy bone in my body, I hed got to be
a bit easier in my mind; for on lookin' down at the river, it seemed that the cave-in hed come
to a eend. But my comfort didn't last long. It war follered by the reflection that, whether
the tree war to stand or fall, I war equally a lost man. I knew that I war beyont the reach
o' human help. Nothin' but chance ked fetch a livin' critter within reach o' my voice. I seed
the river plain enough, an' boats passin' up an' down; but I know'd they war 'custom'd to steer
along the opposite shore, to 'void the dangerous eddy as sets torst this side. The river's
more 'n a mile wide here, and the people on a passin' boat wudn't hear me; an' ef they did,
they'd take it for some one a mockin' 'em. A man hailin' a boat from the top o' a cyprus-tree!
It 'ud be of no use. For all that I tried it. Steamers, keels, and flats,--I hailed them all
till I war hoarse; some o' 'em heard me, for I war answered by shouts o' scornful laughter.
My own shouts o' despair mout a' been mistuk for the cries o' a fool or a madman.

"Wul, I kim to the conclusion that I war trapped in that tree, an' no mistake. I seed no more
chance o' gittin' clur than wud a bar wi' a two-ton log across the small o' his back.

"It war jest arter I hed gin up all hope o' bein' suckered by anybody else, thet I 'gan to
think o' doin' suthin' for myself. I needed to do suthin'. Full thirty hours hed passed since
I'd eyther ate or drank; for I'd been huntin' all the day afore 'ithout doin' eyther. I ked
'a' swallered the muddiest water as ever war found in a puddle, an' neyther frogs nor tadpoles
would 'a' deterred me. As to eatin', when I thort o' that, I kedn't help turnin' my eyes up'ard;
an', spite o' the spurt I'd hed wi' thar parents, I ked 'a' tolt them young baldies that thar
lives war in danger.

"Possible, I mout 'a' feeled hungrier an' thurstier then I did, if it hadn't been for the fear
I war in 'bout the cyprus topplin' over into the river. Thet hed kep' me in sich a state o'
skear, as to hinder me from thinking of most anythin' else.

"As the time passed, hows'ever, an' the tree still kep' its purpendic'lar, I begun to b'lieve
that the bank warn't agoin' to move any more. I ked see the water down below through the branches
o' the cyprus, an' tho' it war clost by, thar 'peared to be a clamjamfery o' big roots stickin'
out from the bank, as war like to keep the dirt firm agin the underminin' o' the current,--leastwise
for a good while.

"Soon as I bekum satersfied o' the firmness o' the cyprus, I tuk to thinkin' again how I war
to git down. Thinkin' warn't o' no use. Thar war no way but to jump it; an' I mout as well
ha' thort o' jumpin' from the top o' a 'Piscopy church steeple 'ithout breakin' my ole thigh-bones,
tough as they be.

"By this time it hed got to be night; an' as thar wa'n't no use o' me makin' things wuss then
they war, I groped about the cyprus to see ef thar war ary limb softer than the others, whar
I ked lay myself for a snooze. I foun' a place in one o' the forks, large enough to 'a' lodged
a bar; an' thar I squatted. I slep' putty well, considerin'; but the scratch the eagle hed
gin me hed got to be sorish, an' war wuss torst the mornin'. At peep o' day I war wide awake,
an' feelin' hungry enuf to eat anything.

"While I war thinkin' o' climbin' up to the neest an' wringin' one o' the eagles' necks, I
chanced to look out over the river. All at oncet I see one o' them big water-hawks--osprey,
they call 'em--plunge down, an' rise up agin wi' a catfish in his claws. He hadn't got twenty
feet above the surface when one o' the old baldies went shootin' torst him like a streak o'
lightnin'. Afore ye kud 'a' counted six, I seed the she-baldy comin' for the tree wi' the catfish
in her claws.

"'Good,' sez I to myself; 'ef I must make my breakfast on raw stuff, I'd rayther it shed be
fish than squab eagle.'

"I started for the neest. This time I tuk the purcaution to unsheathe my bowie an' carry it
in my hand ready for a fight; an' it warn't no idle purcaution, as it proved; for sca'ce hed
I got my head above the edge o' the neest when both the old birds attackted me jest as afore.
The fight war now more even atween us, an' the cunnin' critters appeared to know it; for they
kep' well out o' reach o' the bowie, though floppin' an' clawin' at me whenever they seed a
chance. I guv the ole hen a prod that cooled her courage consid'able; an' as for the cock,
he warn't a sarcumstance to her; for, as yer know, the pluckiest o' eagles is allers the hen bird.

"The fish war lyin' in the bottom o' the neest, whar they had dropped it. It hedn't been touched,
'ceptin' by the claws thet hed carried it, an' the young 'uns war too much skeart durin' the
skurmidge to think o' beginnin' breakfast. I spiked it on the blade o' my bowie, an', drawin'
it torst me, I slid back down the tree to the fork whar I hed passed the night. Thar I ate it."

"You don't mean to say you ate it raw?"

"Jest as it come from the river! I mout 'a' gin it a sort o' a cookin', ef I'd liked; for I
hed my punk pouch on me, an' I ked 'a' got firin' from the dead bark o' the cyprus. But I war
too hungry to wait, an' I ate it raw. The fish war a couple o' pound weight; an' I left nothin'
o' it but the bones, fins, an' tail.

"As ye may guess, I wa'n't hungry any longer; but jest then come upon me a spell o' the driest
thirst I ever 'sperienced in all my life. The fish meat made it wuss; for, arter I hed swallered
it, I feeled as ef I war afire. The sun war shinin' full upon the river, an' the glitterin'
water made things wuss; for it made me hanker arter it all the more. Oncet or twice I got out
o' the fork, thinkin' I ked creep along a limb an' drop into the river. I shed 'a' done so,
hed it been near enough, tho' I knowed I ked niver 'a' swum ashore. But the water war too fur off.

"'T war no use chawin' the leaves o' the cyprus. They war full o' rosin, an' 'ud only make
the chokin' wuss. Thar war some green leaves on the fox-grape-vine, an' I chawed all o' them
that I ked git my paws on. Thet dud some good; but my suffering war still unbarable.

"How war I to git at the water o' that river, that flowed so tauntin'ly jest out o' reach?
I 'most jumped off o' the tree when at last I bethort me o' a way to manage it.

"I had a piece o' cord I allers carries about me. 'T war long enough to reach the river bank
an' let down into the water. I ked empty my powder-horn an' let it down. It would fill, an'
I ked then draw it up agin. Hooray!

"I cried that hooray only oncet. On lookin' for the horn, I diskivered that I hed left it whar
I hed tuk it off afore goin' to sleep, under the cyprus.

"I warn't agoin' to be beat in that way. Ef I hed no vessel thet wud draw water, I hed my ole
doe-skin shirt. I ked let that down, soak it, an' pull it up agin. No sooner said than done.
The shirt war peeled off, gathered up into a clew, tied to the eend o' the string, an' chucked
out'ard. It struck a branch o' the cyprus an' fell short. I tried over an' over agin. It still
fell short several feet from the bank o' the river. Yet the cord war long enough. It war the
thick branches o' the cyprus that gin me no chance to make a clur cast, and havin' tried till
I war tired, I gev that up too.

"I shed 'a' felt dreadful at failin' arter bein' so sure o' success; but jest then I bethunk
me o' another plan for reachin' that preecious flooid.

"I've tolt ye 'bout my cuttin' a lot o' cane to make me a shake-down for sleepin' on. Thur
it still war right under me,--armfuls o' it. The sight o' its long tubes suggested a new idee,
which I warn't long in puttin' to practice. Takin' the shirt out o' its loop, I made the cord
fast to the heft o' my bowie. I then shot the knife down among the cane, sendin' it wi' all
my might, an' takin' care to keep the p'int o' the blade down'ards. It warn't long till I had
spiked up as much o' thet 'ere cane as wud 'a' streetched twenty yards into the river.

"Thar war no eend o' whittlin' an' punchin' out the p'ints, an' then splicin' the tubes one
to the other. But I knowed it war a case o' life or death, an' knowin' that, I worked on steady
as an ole gin-hoss.

"I war rewarded for my patience. I got my blow-gun completed, an' shovin' it carefully out,
takin' the purcaution to give it a double rest upon the branches, I hed the satersfaction ter
see its p'int dippin' down into the river. I tell ye, thar warn't no mint-juleps ever sucked
through a straw as tasted like the flooid that cum gurdlin' up through that cane. I thort I
ked niver take the thing from my lips; an' I feel putty sartin that while I war drinkin', the
Massissippi must 'a' fell clur a couple o' feet. Ye may larf at the idee, young feller, an'
I'm gled to see ye in setch good sperits; but ye aren't so elevated as I war when I tuk my
mouth from the cane. I feeled all over a new man,--jest as ef I hed been raised from the dead,
or dragged out o' a consoomin' fire.

"I lived in the fork o' that ere cyprus for six long days,--occasionally payin' a visit to
the eagles' neest, an' robbin' the young baldies o' the food thar parents hed pervided for
'em. Thar diet war various, an' on a konsequence so war mine. I hed vittles consistin' o' fish,
flesh, an' fowl,--sometimes a rabbit, sometimes a squir'l, with feathered game to foller, sech
as partridge, teals, an' widgeons. I didn't cook 'em, for I war afraid o' settin' fire to the
withered leaves o' the tree an' burnin' up the neest, which wud 'a' been like killin' the goose
as laid the eggs o' gold.

"I mout a managed that sort o' existence for a longer spell, tho' I acknowledge it war tiresome
enuf. But it warn't that as made me anxious to see it up, but suthin' very different. I seed
that the young baldies war every day gettin' bigger. Thar feathers war comin' out all over,
an' I ked tell that it wudn't be long till they wud take wing.

"When that time kum, about whar shed I be? still in the tree or worse; but whar was my purvision
to kum from? who wud supply me wi' fish, an' flesh, an' fowl, as the eagles hed done? Clurly
neery one. It war this thort as made me uneasy.

"I must do suthin' to git down out o' that tree, or die among its branches, an' I spent all
my spare time in thinkin' what mout be did. I used to read in Webster's Spellin' Book that
needsessity are the mother o' invention. I reckon Ole Web warn't far astray when he prented
them ere words. Anyways it proved true in the case o' Zeb Stump, when he war trapped in that
cyprus.

"I hed noticed that the two ole eagles becum tamer, as they got used to me. They seed that
I did no harm to their chicks, 'ceptin' so far as to abstrack from 'em a portion o' thar daily
allowance. But I allers tuk care to leave them sufficient for themselves; an' as thar parents
appeared to hev no difficulty in purvidin' them wi' plenty,--unlike many parents in yur country,
friend, as I've heerd,--my pilferin' didn't seem much to distress 'em. They grew at last so
that they'd sit on the one side o' the neest, while I war peepin' over the other! I seed that
I ked easily snare them; an' I made up my mind to do this very thing; for a partickler purpuss
which promised to extercate me out o' the ugly scrape I hed so foolishly got into.

"I hed noticed that the eagles war both big birds, an' strong i' the wing. Everybody ort to
know thet much. It therefore occurred to me that I mout make them wings do me a sarvice,--otherways
that they shed carry me out o' the tree. In coorse I didn't intend they shed take me up i'
the air. There warn't much danger o' that. I only thort they mout sarve to break my fall, like
one o' them flyin' things,--paryshoots I believe they calls 'em. Arter I'd got my plan tol'ably
well traced out, I sot about trappin' the ole eagles. In less 'n an hour's time I hed both
on 'em in my keepin' wi' thar beaks spliced to keep 'em from bitin' me, an' thar claws cut
clur off wi' my bowie. I then strengthened my cord by doublin' it half a dozen times, until
it war stout enough to carry my weight. One eend o' it I looped around the legs o' the eagles,
gatherin' all four into a bunch, while the other eend I made fast around myself just under
the arm-pits. I hed done all this upon the lowest limb o' the cyprus, whar I hed fetched down
the eagles. When all war ready, I drew my bowie from its sheath, an' with its sharp point pricked
both the baldies at the same time, so as to set 'em a floppin'. As soon as I seed thar four
wings in full play, I slid off the branch, directin' myself torst the groun' underneath. I
ain't very clur as to what followed; I only recollex bein' dragged through the branches o'
the cyprus, an' the minit arter plumpin' cochuck into the waters o' the Massissippi.

"I shed most sartinly a been drownded ef that ere cord had broken, or the eagles had got loose.
As it war, the birds kep' beatin' the water wi' thar big wings; an' in that way hindered me
from goin' under. I've heerd o' a woman, they called Veenis, bein' drawed through the sea by
a couple o' swans; but I don't b'lieve they ked a drawed her at 'a' quicker pace than I war
carried over the Massissippi. In less 'n five minits from the time I had dropped out o' the
tree, I war in the middle o' the river, an' still scufflin' on. The baldies were boun' for
the Arkansaw shore, an' knowin' that my life depended on thar reachin' it, I offered no opposition
to thar efforts, but lay still and let 'em go it.

"As good luck wud hev it, they hed strength enough left to complete the crossin'; an' thar
war another bit o' good luck in the Arkansaw bank bein' on a level wi' the surface o' the water;
so that in five minits more I found myself among the bushes, the baldies still flutterin' about
me, as if determined to carry me on over the great peraries. I feeled that it war time to stop
the steam; so, clutchin' holt o' a branch, I brought up to an anchor. I tuk good care not to
let the birds go,--tho' sartin I owed them that much for the sarvice they hed done me. But
jest then I bethunk me o' the Englishman at Grand Gulf,--ah! it war you, ye say?"

"Certainly! And those are the eagles I purchased from Mrs. Stump?"

"Them same birds! Yer shed 'a' hed the young 'uns, but thar warn't no chance ever agin to climb
that cyprus, an' what bekim o' the poor critters arterward I haint the most distant idee. I
reckon they eended thar days in the neest, which ye can still see up thar, an' ef they dud,
I reckon the buzzarts wudn't be long afore makin' a meal o' 'em."

With my eyes directed to the top of that tall cypress-tree, and fixed upon a dark mass of dead
sticks resembling a stack of faggots, I listened to the concluding words of this queer chapter
of backwoods adventure.

                                             Mayne Reid.

CHARADES.

NO. 2.

    My first is, in sound, the odd creature that goes
    Into Hottentots' traps when he follows his nose:
    But in sense 't is an adjective, short, spick and span,
    Well hated by Hunkers and kept under ban.
    My second it qualifies, also my third,
    Though a high fen between can't be crossed nor be stirred.
    Now my next, like a swindler when cleaned out of tin,
    Has always its tick, and takes most people in.
    Amphibious its habit, as frequently found
    Beneath the blue sea as on top of the ground:
    Yet, oddest caprice out of destiny's cup,
    Just when in full feather 't is always "sewed up."
    What is forced and affected most all people spurn,
    Yet they like this because 't is a made-up concern.
    Best friend when our sunshine to gloom is converted,
    Yet the moment we rise in the world we desert it.
    Best friend, yet precisely its stead you can find,
    To which, strange to say, you are never inclined.
    And the warmer you get when a lieing you take it,
    The more you wink at it, the less you forsake it.
    Wet blankets you throw over swells, but not so
    O'er my second, however puffed up it may grow.
    My third is so shallow you'll guess it before
    I've told you how many smart folks pass it o'er;
    Even Cæsar went o'er it and by it and through it,
    And lived long enough, the baldpate, to rue it.
    Tho' shallow it is, yet the bravest and best
    By keeping it give of their wisdom a test.
    And the hotter it gets in dispute, yet the most
    Courageous is he who wont let it be crossed.
    On the whole, though 't is often a subject of strife,
    More people it joins than it parts in this life.
    My whole is a place I forbear now to flatter;
    It thrives upon those whose dearest and best
    Severely it tries, yet makes light of the matter,
    And thinks the more wicked their end, the more blest.

                                  J. W.

ILLUSTRATED REBUS.--No. 2.

CONUNDRUMS.

     1. Why should soldiers never meddle with nut-crackers?

     2. What is that which no man wants, but which, if a man has
     it, he would most unwillingly part with?

     3. Why are flatterers sometimes mistaken for truth-tellers?

     4. Why does a scolding woman keep people at a distance?

     5. Why is an easy office like a good dinner eaten by an
     invalid?

ENIGMA.

NO. 2.

     I am composed of 17 letters.

     My 17, 12, 8, 3, is a philosopher.

     My 2, 15, 7, 13, 16, 4, is what boys are when school is done.

     My 1, 2, 14, 12, 1, 16, 3, is a place of amusement.

     My 11, 12, 8, 3, 16, is a German huntsman.

     My 7, 3, 13, 16, 10, 14, 17, are a persecuted race.

     My 13, 12, 8, is a mouthful.

     My 11, 10, 15, 16, 17, belongs to you.

     My 13, 14, 7, 6, 17, is a family.

     My 2, 3, 12, 9, 4, is not light.

     My 17, 15, 13, 12, 16, is sweet.

     My 13, 16, 12, 9, 3, is solemn.

     My 9, 12, 8, 15, 14, is quite uncertain.

     My whole is a very interesting book by one of the writers for
     "Our Young Folks."

TRANSPOSITION. No. 1.

     I thought I should like to ivred; so I went to the abelts
     to sahenrs my oehsr, but I found the ubcelk of the
     hebeirgnc was broken; to make the best of it, I put an old
     piesk in place of the eontug, brought out the old
     acsihe, and off I went. Now tell me how I got on.

PUZZLES.

NO. 1.

    My first is in Urn but not in Vase,
    My second is in Cabinet but not in Case,
    My third is in "Goose" but not in Fool,
    My fourth is in Chair but not in Stool,
    My fifth is in Vanity but not in Conceit,
    My sixth is in Parsnip but not in Beet.
    My whole is the name of a boys' book.

                              Carl.

NO. 2.

Behead an animal, and leave a gift.

                              C. M. E.

ARITHMETICAL PUZZLES.

NO. 3.

So arrange the nine digits, using each but once, that their sum shall be exactly one hundred.

NO. 4.

100055,--a long-tailed animal.

                              C. M. E.

NO. 5.

    One hundred and one by fifty divide;
    And then, if a cipher be rightly applied,
    And your computation agreeth with mine,
    The answer will be one taken from nine.

ANSWERS.

Charades.

     1. Pilgrimage.

     2. Illumination.

Arithmetical Puzzles.

     1. Height of staff, 75 feet; payments, $11.50, $23, $34.50,
     and $57.50, respectively.

     2. CIVIL.

Enigma.

1. Our Young Folks.

Illustrated Rebus.

1. Beware of the intoxicating bowl, for it brings penury and ruin.

[(Bee) (ware) of (the-in-t) (ox) (eye) (cat-in-g) (bowl) four (eye)t b(rings) (pen) (ewe) (rye)
and-rew (inn).]

OUR HORSEMAN.

    There was a young cavalry "feller"
    Who "foraged" a secesh umbrella.
      When he got it he said,
      "I will now 'make a spread,'"--
    This confiscating cavalry "feller."

Hyphenated words have been standardized. Inconsistencies in spellings have been left as in
the original except those listed below.

     Page 111, Minal changed to Mihal.

     Page 115 and 116, Manday changed to Munday.

     Page 137, Middlehauf changed to Middlekauf.

     Page 140, gods changed to goods, as in "his household goods".

