"I don't ever want to go to sea again," he began. "It aint a bit like what we thought it was.
I don't know why them chaps in the 'Reader' called it 'blue.' It's green and black and yellow,
and all kinds of colors, but I never see it look blue exceptin' when folks was looking at it
from the land. It's cold, too, and wet and nasty. I wasn't dry once for the first two months,
it seems to me. Ugh! I hate it. Never let to sleep till you're rested, and such horrid stuff
to eat, and sick--my, how sick I was! Captain Bradley was a fair enough sort of man, but he
fell ill of China fever, and we had to leave him behind in Canton, and Bill Bunce, the first
mate, took his place. After that we had a hard time enough. I thought it was bad at first,
but it wasn't nothing to that. He was always walloping us boys, and swearing and kicking and
cuffing us about. Then we had a storm, and lost our mainmast, and came near foundering; and
then we were stuck in a calm for three weeks, and the water aboard ran short. That was the
time I had the fever. I'd have died, I know, if it hadn't been for Tad Brice. He was one of
the sailors, and a real nice man. His boy at home was just as old as I am, and he sort of took
an interest in me from the start. He used to come in and feed me, and when we were put on allowance,
he saved half his water ration for me; and when I got to crying, and thinking about home and
you all, he'd--" Here Charley choked and was silent. Aunt Hitty, who sat next, possessed herself
of his thin hand and wept silently over it.

"When I went away I meant to be a pirate, you know," went on Charley.

"A pirate!" cried Aunt Hitty and Aunt Greg in awe-struck voices.

"Yes. I didn't know much about what it meant, but it sounded somehow nice in the books, and
I wanted to be one. But when I asked 'em about it aboard they roared and hooted and made fun,
and they all called me Captain Kidd from that time on. And once, when we were in Shanghai"
(Charley's voice sounded full of horror), "we saw two pirates. Tad Brice said they was pirates.
The folks was taking 'em to jail. They was dreadful, black and ugly, and their eyes were so
fierce and bad that it made me cold to look at 'em. I never wanted to be a pirate any more
after that, but Bunce and the others, they all kept on calling me Captain Kidd just the same."

"You absurd, ridiculous boy!" began Aunt Prue, but Grandmother hushed her up.

"Now, Prue, I wont have poor Charley scolded when he's been so sick," she said--"He's only
a boy, anyhow, and he's going to turn over a new leaf now; aint you, Charley? and go to school
regular, and do his chores, and be the comfort of his granny's life. He's had enough of goin'
to sea; haven't you, Charley? and he'll stay on the farm now, and we wont ever talk about this
bad time he's had, and just be thankful to get him back home again."

Charley didn't answer in words, but he turned and gave Grandmother a big kiss, which she knew
meant "yes," and they were all very happy that night as they sat together around the fire.

So you see that the fox, though he succeeded in his tricks, was not a particularly happy fox
after all. Too much turkey may not be good for a fox, and too much of his own way is certainly
not good for a boy.

HIDDY-DIDDY!

  Hiddy-Diddy! Hiddy-diddy!--
  Ten small chicks and one old biddy!
  "Cluck!" says Biddy, "cluck, cluck, cluck!"
  "Scratch as I do!--try your luck!"

  How the chickens, one and all,
  Crowd around her at her call!
  One chick, missing, peeps to say:
  "Chirp, chirp, chirp!--I've lost my way!"

  Shrill and shriller, comes the sound!
  "Chirp! chirp! chirp!--I shall be drowned!"
  Biddy clucks, and bustles quick,--
  "Where, oh, where's my little chick?"

  Mister Rooster bustles, too,
  Screaming "Cock-a-doodle-doo!
  Biddy, I just chanced to look,
  And saw your bantling in the brook!"

  "Gob!" shrieks Turkey, "gob, gob, gobble!
  Mrs. Hen, you're in a hobble!
  Why don't some one stir about,
  And help your little chicken out?"

  "Moo!" roars Sukey, "moo, moo, moo!
  What is there that I can do?"
  "Uff!" grunts Piggy, "uff, uff, uff!
  Say you're sorry, that's enough."

  "Quack!" says Ducky, "quack, quack, quack!
  I have brought your chicken back!"
  "Oh!" says Biddy, "cluck, cluck, cluck!
  Thank you!--thank you! Mrs. Duck!"

THE SQUIRRELS AND THE CHESTNUT-BURR.

Four squirrels once saw a chestnut-burr growing on a tree. They wanted the chestnuts in the
burr, but were afraid to touch it, because it was full of sharp points. Just then, along came
a flying-squirrel. "I will tell you what you must do," said he: "wait until the burr opens,
and the chestnuts fall out. The burr always opens when the right time comes." So they waited,
and got the chestnuts.

It is a good rule to wait until things are ready for us.

JACK-IN-THE-PULPIT.

Vacation's over! School's begun! A splendid holiday time you've had, no doubt, my dears, and
now you feel like setting to work again with earnest good-will. That's right. But don't try
to do to much at first. Better start easily and keep up the pace, than make a quick run for
a while only to falter and grow weary before you are half-way.

MOQUI PEEKEE.

Word is sent to me of a queer kind of bread called "Peekee," which is used by the Moqui American
Indians. It comes in square loaves that are made by folding, twice across, several sheets of
what looks like very thin bluish-green crust.

First, the meal is made by women, who grind it into flour between two stones, and then it is
mixed with water until it is a thin blue paste or batter, when a little cedar-ash is sprinkled
into it. The oven is a smooth-faced stone heated by kindling a fire under it. The batter is
smeared over the hot stone, and is soon baked into a thin sheet, about two feet long and a
foot and a half wide. Several sheets are folded, while yet warm and soft, to make a loaf, which
is then set aside to dry.

This curious bread is very brittle and is eaten by breaking off little bits with the fingers.
People who have never eaten it before soon become quite fond of it.

POTATO BLOSSOMS AS ORNAMENTS.

"Potato plants used to be grown, a very long time ago, in front yards on Broadway, New York,
for the sake of the flowers, which were much prized for bouquets and other ornamental purposes.
However, the potatoes themselves,"--I suppose this means the tubers,--"became such favorite
food in a few years, that the plants were promoted backward from the flower-beds to the kitchen-gardens
and open fields. The beauty of the blossoms was forgotten in the usefulness of their roots."

The moral of this paragram is: If you are merely good-looking, you will not be apt to get on
in life, but will stay about where you are; and if it should be found out that you can be put
to use, you will be planted in the open fields.

This doesn't seem to read quite right, somehow; but, dear me, what do we want with a moral
all the time? I leave you to find out what it ought to be in this case, if you think it's worth
while. Only, if you do find out, I wish you would let me know.

SHARP-WITTED ROBINS.

    Detroit, Michigan.

    DEAR JACK-IN-THE-PULPIT: Z.R.B's anecdote, "A Congress of Birds," in
    the July number, reminds me of an incident of which I was an
    eye-witness:

    A cherry-tree grew near the house, and was yearly full of luscious
    cherries; but the robins scarcely allowed us to have one that did
    not have their monogram picked in it. One year, however, my brother
    determined to outwit the birds, and hung a large stuffed eagle from
    one of the boughs. The birds assembled on a neighboring tree and
    eyed the eagle sharply, while a grand consultation was held.
    Finally, a courageous robin darted from the tree, swooped directly
    under the eagle, and flew triumphantly back to tell the rest there
    was nothing to be feared. At once the whole flock of robins flew to
    the cherry-tree, and our hopes of a cherry-pie were doomed to
    disappointment for that year.

    H.P.B.

A VERY DEAD LANGUAGE.

I once heard of a green-colored South American parrot who was more than one hundred years old.
This aged fellow could speak in a real language which was known to have been used by a tribe
of South American Indians who, it is supposed, petted and taught him when he was young. One
by one the Indians died, until there was no one left who could understand a word of their language.
The poor old bird tried hard to keep cheerful, but there were sorry times when he would mope
by himself and say over some of the words of the language that had been spoken by his earliest
and dearest human friends.

That was a very dead language, indeed, my dears; so dead that it is no wonder it made the old
green parrot blue to speak it now and then. However, by this time it is past all power to worry
anybody else, let us hope.

A PLANT THAT WALKS UPSIDE DOWN.

Shrubs, trees, Jack-in-the-Pulpits, and all such plants, grow with their roots down in the
ground; but I've lately heard that a man called a philosopher, once wrote of a plant that grows
and walks with the roots upward!

Lord Francis Bacon is the man's name, and the plant he meant is Man. Only he wrote in Latin,
I believe, and so, instead of calling Man "a plant upside down," he called him "planta inversa."
He explained these words by saying that the brain in man, whence the nerves start, to spread
like a net-work all through the body, corresponds to the roots in a plant.

If this is so, my dears, you are a kind of walking plants, only you are obliged to walk top-side
down. This seems curious, but it is pleasant to think you are not so very different from a
Jack-in-the-Pulpit after all.

THE SMALLEST INSECT KNOWN.

    The Red Schoolhouse.

    MY DEAR JACK-IN-THE-PULPIT: No doubt, you have heard of the
    "leaf-cutter" bees, who line their nests with small round pieces of
    leaves, which they themselves cut and then fit together so exactly,
    without gum, that they hold their stores of honey and do not leak a
    bit. Well, a sharp-eyed observer has found, on one of these bees, an
    insect whose body is no longer than the width of the dot of this "i"
    (1-90th of an inch), and which is believed to be the smallest insect
    known. It is called Pteratomus, a word which means "winged atom,"
    and it lives entirely upon the body of the bee. It has beautiful
    hairy wings, and long feelers, and its legs are rather like those of
    a mosquito, though, of course, very much smaller. Its feet are so
    small that they can only just be seen when magnified to four hundred
    times their natural size! Now, for a full-grown insect, as it is, I
    think the Pteratomus is very small.--Sincerely yours,

    THE LITTLE SCHOOLMA'AM.

A WATER-SPOUT.

Did any of you ever hear of water-spouts at sea? I don't know much about them myself, but the
St. Nicholas artist will draw a picture of one for you, and the editors will kindly put it
in. According to travelers, the water seems to come down from the clouds, or go up from the
sea,--I don't know which,--and drives along, through the storm, in a great watery column. I
have heard of whirlwinds, and I think this might be called a "whirl-water."

THE USES OF HAIR ON PLANTS.

M.E.K. writes, in answer to my question in July, that her "Botany" book says, "Hair on plants
seems to afford them security against changes of weather, and plants with hair can stand more
heat than bare ones." A.W. Ferris says:

