The tears blinded him as he spoke, and mingled with the bloody stream which trickled down his
cheeks. The ruffian's ugly face and bloodshot eyes lighted up with a devilish and sinister
satisfaction as the skipper began his appeal, but before he had well finished speaking he broke in,

"Avast your jaw! will ye? You'll have enough to look out for your own gullet, my lad, without
mindin' any body else's; so turn to and say your prayers afore eight bells is struck, because
there's sharks off Jamaiky."

Then addressing his own scoundrelly myrmidons, he exclaimed, "Look out sharp for that old chap,
my lads, while I goes to sarch for the woman passenger!" As he turned, however, to leave the
cabin, one of his subordinates began to rummage about in a locker, when the burly brute said,
"Tonio, don't get to drinkin' too airly, boy, for ye know it's agin the law till the prize
is snug in harbor, or sunk, as the case may be."

"Si, señor," replied the man, with a nod and a grin, and he resumed his seat again; but no
sooner had their leader left the cabin than a bottle and glasses were placed upon the table,
and they fell to with a will, complimenting the bound and wounded prisoner by pitching the
last drops from their tumblers into his face.

CHAPTER VI.

DANGER.

    "What tale do the roaring ocean
      And the night wind, bleak and wild,
    As they beat at the crazy casement,
      Tell to that little child?
    And why do the roaring ocean
      And the night wind, wild and bleak,
    As they beat at the heart of the mother,
      Drive the color from her cheek?"

In all this time so little noise had been made that even the watch below, in the brig's forecastle,
were snoozing away without a dream of danger; though, had one of them shown his nose above
the fore-peak, he would have either been knocked down and murdered like the mate, or, with
a gag in his jaws, been hurled overboard. When the leader of the pirates stepped again on deck,
he said to his companions, who were still clustered around the companion-way,

"Well, my boys, we have 'arned a good prize--a fine cargo of the real stuff--silks, wines,
and what not, besides a few of the shiners!" Here he jingled the bag of gold and dollars in
his paws, and then threw it, with an easy, indifferent toss, on to the slide of the companion-way.

"But what think ye, lads?" he continued, in a hoarse whisper, "there's a petticoat aboard!
and, as sure as my name's Bill Gibbs, here goes for a look; for there's nothing like lamplight
for the lovely creeturs!"

As he slewed round on his bare feet to approach the entrance to the deck cabin, a move was
made in the same direction by two or three of the wretches of his band; but, shoving them roughly
back with his heavy fist, and clapping a hand to his belt, he said, in a threatening tone,

"None o' that, my souls! I takes the first look myself; and if I think her beauty'll suit the
chief, why--I shall be able to judge, ye know, whether she'll go furder on the cruise or swim
ashore with the rest of the lubbers at daylight to Jamaiky. Keep your eye on the schooner,
Pedro, and don't make no more sail! D'ye hear?"

"Ay, ay, si señor!" quoth that worthy, as he and his followers fell sulkily back. It took but
three strides for Mr. Bill Gibbs to reach the cabin door, when, finding it hard to open, after
several trials at the knob, he placed his burly shoulder against the edge of the panelwork,
and, throwing his powerful weight upon it, the door yielded with a snap of the lock, and he
pitched forward full length upon the cabin floor. The noise startled the lady within, and speaking
as if half asleep, she called,

"Banou! Banou! what is the matter?"

"Mon dieu, madame! we are prisoners in the hands of pirates!"

Before more words were uttered, Mr. Bill Gibbs, who by this time had regained his feet while
giving vent to a volley of blasphemous curses, roared out as he beheld the black, "Ho! nigger
passengers, hay? A mounseer of color, as I'm a Christian! I say, cucumber shins, is that 'ere
woman as is talkin' as black as you be?"

He was not left long in doubt concerning the color of the person he alluded to, for at the
instant the stateroom door flew open, and the lovely woman, in her loose night-dress and hair
streaming in brown, heavy silken tresses over her fair neck and shoulders, with a pale and
terror-stricken face, stood before him. Speechless with agony, she gazed at the coarse ruffian,
who had, at the moment, reached the swinging cot which held the little boy, and while he was
in the act of looking at the sleeping child, the mother uttered a fearful cry and the boy awoke.

"Sarvice, madam! don't be scared! come and take the little chap! I ain't goin' to hurt him--that
is, if it be a him."

The frightened mother, spell-bound at first, needed no second bidding, and, forgetful of her
disheveled dress, sprang forward, and with outstretched arms, bare to the shoulder, was about
to snatch her child. The pirate, however, with his red eyes gleaming with unholy fire, threw
his great arm around the lovely woman's waist, and with a hoarse, fiendish chuckle of triumph,
attempted to draw her toward him. But, quick as lightning, two black, sinewy paws clutched
him with such a steel-like grip about the throat that his sacrilegious arm dropped by his side,
and he was hurled violently back against the cabin bulkhead. Then standing before him, the
negro glared like an angry lion roused from his lair as he looked round inquiringly at his
mistress.

"Ho!" sputtered the ruffian, as he pulled a pistol from his belt, "ho! you mean fight, do ye?"

"Banou! mon pauvre Banou!" screamed the terrified woman. "Yield! Oh, sir, spare him! Don't
harm us, and we will give you all we possess!"

The burly scoundrel hesitated a moment, and balanced the cocked pistol in his hand, as if undecided
whether to blow the black's brains out on the spot where he stood; and then shoving the weapon
back in his sash, and keeping a wary eye on his assailant, he exclaimed in an angry tone,

"Well, come here, then, my deary, and give us a kiss for this nigger's bad manners."

Moving forward as he spoke, he caught up the little boy from the cot, tore the gold chain and
locket from his neck, which he thrust into his pocket, and shook him roughly at arm's length,
in hopes, perhaps, of enticing the tender mother within his merciless grasp. But again the
black interposed his heavy frame before his mistress.

"What! at it again, are ye? Well, then"--fumbling with his left hand for his pistol--"say your
prayers, ye imp of darkness."

The black seemed, however, in no mood for praying; and putting forth his slabs of arms like
the paws of an alligator, he tried to grapple his foe by the throat. The cries of the mother
now mingled with those of the child as he put out his little arms to shield his black protector.
The ruffian, foiled in his purpose, with baffled rage evaded the negro by stepping to one side;
and as he did so, he hurled the helpless child with great force from him. The large cabin windows
at the stern were open to let in the breeze; and as the brig sank slowly down with her counter
to the following waves, and gurgled up as the sea eddied and surged around the rudder, the
faint, plaintive cry of the little boy arose above the seething waters--a light splash followed--and
the mother had lost her child!

"Oh, monster!" cried the heart-broken woman. "Oh, my boy! my boy! May Heaven curse you forever!"
as she sank down senseless on the deck.

The awful howl of vengeance which burst from the deep lungs of Banou came simultaneously with
the report of the pirate's pistol, the bullet from which struck the black hard in the left
shoulder; but putting out for the third time his sinewy arms, and this time with an iron grip
that only left the ruffian time to yell with a stifled curse for help, he was hurled headlong,
smashing through the latticed cabin door, and fell stunned upon the outer deck. In an instant
half a dozen pistol balls whistled around the negro's head, and the knives of the pirates flashed
from their sashes as they rushed forward to bury the blades in his body; but leaping to one
side, and while two more bullets were driven into him, he seized an iron-shod pump brake from
the bulwarks, and, with a mighty bound, whirled it once with the rapidity of thought high above
his head, and brought it down on the leg of his prostrate foe. Such was the force of the blow
that it smashed both bones, and drove the white splinters through the brute's trowsers, where
they gleamed out red and bloody by the light of the binnacle lamp. Even then, wounded, and
the blood flowing from several places, and though almost encircled in the grasp of the scoundrels,
Banou made good his retreat to the cabin, and planted his powerful body firmly against the door.

With a volley of polyglot curses and yells in all languages, two or three of the pirates stopped
to raise their fallen leader, while the others, leaving the wheel and vessel to herself, rushed
in pursuit of the black. Scarcely, however, had they made a step, when their ears were saluted
by a stunning crash from a heavy cannon, and the peculiar humming sound of a round shot as
it flew just above their heads between the brig's masts.

There, within half a cable's length to windward, loomed up the dark hull of a large ship. The
crew were evidently at quarters, with the battle lanterns lit and gleaming in the ports, while
the rays shot up the black rigging and top-hamper, and spread out over the sails in fitful
flashes as she slowly forged abreast the brig, with her main top-sail to the mast. For a minute
not a sound was heard, though the decks were full of men, some with their heads poked out of
the open ports beside the guns, or swarming along over the lee hammock-nettings and about the
quarter boats; but the next instant there came in a voice of thunder through the trumpet,

"What's the matter on board that brig?"

There was no answer for a few seconds, until a choking voice, as if with a pump-bolt athwart
the speaker's mouth, mumbled out,

"We're captured by pi--"

A dull, heavy blow cut short these words; and though the reply to the hail could hardly have
been heard on board the ship, yet, as if divining the true state of the case, loud, clear orders
were given--

"Away, there, third and fourth cutters! away! Spring, men!"

Then came the surging noise of the whistles as the falls dropped the boats from the davits;
then the men, leaping down into cutters--silently and quick--no sound save the clash of a cutlass
or the rattle of an oar-blade as they took their places and shoved off. Again an order through
the trumpet--

"Clear away the starboard battery! Load with grape! Sail trimmers! stations for wearing ship!
Hard up the helm! Fill away the main-yard!"

The "Scourge" had by this time forged ahead of the brig, her sails aback or shivering, as she
came up and fell off from the wind, and the boats dancing with full crews toward her. No sooner,
however, had the presence of the unwelcome stranger been made known on board the brig than
the pirates seemed seized with a panic, and, without a second thought, they scudded to leeward,
where their boat had been hauled alongside, and forgetful or indifferent for the fate of their
companions below, though dragging the while their maimed comrade to the rail, they lowered
him into the boat, jumped in themselves, and pulled away with all their strength toward the
schooner near. They were not, however, a moment too soon; for as the last of the band disappeared,
their places were supplied by a crowd of nimble sailors to windward, headed by an officer with
his sword between his teeth as he swung over the bulwarks. The first sound which greeted the
new-comers was from below, and from the throat of the honest skipper. Down the open companion-way
leaped the officer, with half a dozen stout, eager sailors at his heels, and dashed right into
the lower cabin. There was the brave old skipper, with but one arm free, shielding himself
and struggling--faint and well-nigh exhausted--from the knives of the drunken brace of rascals
who had been left to guard him. A pistol in the hands of one of this pair was pointed with
an unsteady aim at the officer as he entered, but the ball struck the empty rum-bottle on the
table and flew wide of its mark; and before the smoke of the powder had cleared away, a sword
and cutlass had passed through and through both their bodies, and they fell dead upon the cabin
floor.

While Captain Blunt found breath to give a rapid explanation of the trouble, and while the
brig was once more got under control and the wounded cared for, we will take a look at the
man-of-war and the part she bore in the business.

At the first sound of the warning gun from the cruiser the schooner began to show life; and
drawing her head sheets, she wore short round on her heel, with every thing ready to run up
her fore and aft sails, and a stay-tackle likewise rove and hanging over the low gunwale to
hook on to the boat and hoist it in the moment it came alongside. Meanwhile the "Scourge" had
shot ahead of the brig, and wearing round her forefoot, with her starboard tacks on board,
she emerged out beyond, like a hound just slipped from the leash. As she cleared the brig,
the schooner lay with bare masts about three cables' length to windward, and the rattle of
oars told that her boat had just scraped alongside. At that moment a clear, determined voice
shouted through the trumpet,

"Level your guns! Take good aim! Fire!"

A brilliant series of sheets of flame burst forth from the corvette's battery, lighting up
the water and jet black wales, and away aloft to the great towering maze of rigging and sails
to the trucks, with the topmen clustering to windward, and their very eyes and teeth lit up
in the glare; then, too, the crews of the guns, in their trim frocks and trowsers; the marines
on the top-gallant forecastle, with their firelocks and white cross-belts; and abaft a knot
of officers on the poop, with night-glasses to their eyes, all standing out as clear as day
in the sudden flashes from the cannon. Then followed the concussive roar, and the next instant
you could hear the hurtling rush of the iron hail as it flew singly or in bunches through the
air, or skipped in its deadly flight from wave to wave, until it went crashing into the pirate's
boat, slapping with heavy thumps against the schooner's side, or furrowing along her decks;
while a shower of white splinters flew high over her low rail, and told how well the iron had
done its bidding. Then, with many a groan and imprecation, the shattered and sinking boat was
cut adrift, and, a moment after, the sails of the vessel were spread, the sheets hauled flat
aft, and, taking the breeze, she heeled over till her lee rail was all awash, and away she
walked, right up to windward.

But again came the clear, commanding tones on board the cruiser, mingled with the jumping of
the crew and ramming home the charges in the guns:

"Load! round shot! Run out! One point abaft the beam! Fire as you bring the schooner to bear!"

Out belched the red flames; the heavy globes of iron, like so many black peas in daylight,
sung their deadly note as they darted on their way, and the corvette gave a little heel to
leeward as the shock of the explosion was felt. One shot dropped within fifty yards of the
low hull of the schooner, bounded just clear of her after-deck, knocked off the head and shoulder
of a man at the tiller, and then went skipping away over the water like a black foot-ball.
Another messenger cut off the schooner's delicate fore-top-mast as clean as a bit of glass,
bringing down the gaff-top-sail, and, what was equally pleasant, the fellow who was setting
it--pitching him over and over like a wheel, until he fell, a bruised and lifeless lump of
jelly, on the oak bitts at the fore-mast. Before, however, they were treated to another of
these metallic doses, the pirates had got their craft in splendid trim; and with every stitch
of her canvas spread, and tugging and straining, she rushed on with the heels of a race-horse,
within three points of the wind. The "Scourge," too, was now close hauled, her yards braced
as fine as needles, and crowded with every inch of sail that would draw; while every ten minutes
or so she would let slip two or more guns from a division at the chase. But the uncertain gloom
of starlight, and the darkening effect of the passing trade-clouds, made the little vessel
a very difficult object to see; and though one of the last balls struck her on the narrow deck,
passed through that and the waterways, and out to windward, spoiling two of her timbers, and
no end of planking, yet this was the last damage she received. Her crew, also, had got as well
as could be out of harm's way--both the sound and wounded--and were lying quietly as possible
deep down in the vessel's run. When daylight broke the breeze began to slacken, but she was
by this time hull down from the corvette, a long way beyond the reach of her long eighteens
in the bow ports, and eating her way to windward, with no chance of being taken.

"It's no use," said the captain of the corvette to his first lieutenant, as they stood watching
the receding chase. "We may as well give it up; she has the heels of us in this light wind,
and will soon be out of sight. I think, however," continued the captain, with a smile, "that
he'll remember the 'Scourge' when he meets her again. This is the second time we have chased
that fellow; and this heat, by the way the splinters flew, we must have peppered the skin off
his back."

Shutting up the joints of the spy-glass which he held in his hand, he took hold of the man-ropes
of the poop ladder, and as he put his feet on the steps, he said,

"You can go about, Mr. Cleveland, and run down to the brig."

CHAPTER VII.

THE MEETING AND MOURNING.

    "Moan! moan, ye dying gales!
    The saddest of your tales
      Is not so sad as life!
    Nor have you e'er began
    A theme so wild as man,
      Or with such sorrow rife.

    "Then, when the gale is sighing,
    And when the leaves are dying,
      And when the song is o'er,
    Oh! let us think of those
    Whose lives are lost in woes--
      Whose cup of grief runs o'er!"

The afternoon following the night when the foregoing events transpired, the "Martha Blunt"
sailed slowly along the sandy tongue of land which separates Port Royal from Kingston, and
dropped anchor in the harbor. As the cable rumbled out with a grating sound through the hawse-hole,
and the crew aloft were furling the sails, a large, gayly-painted barge, pulled by a dozen
blacks shaded by a striped awning, shot swiftly alongside. Jabbering were those darkies, and
clapping their hands, and shouting joyously. A rope was immediately thrown from the gangway
of the brig, and a tall, handsome man, with a broad Panama hat, loose white jacket and trowsers,
sprang with a bound up the side, and leaped on deck.

Captain Blunt stood there to receive him. A broad white bandage was passed around his head,
and the tears trickled slowly down his bronzed and honest cheeks. Just beyond him, under the
shade of the awning, lay Banou, stretched out at full length on a mattress; while Ben, the
helmsman, was kneeling beside him, fanning his hot and fevered face with his tarpaulin. A yard
or two beyond, on a broad plank resting on trestles, lay the mate, Mr. Binks, cold and rigid
in the grasp of death, with the union jack folded modestly over his corpse. The black breathed
heavily and in pain; but when he caught sight of the gentleman as he stepped on deck, a deathly
blue pallor came over his countenance, and, closing his eyes, the hot salt tears started in
great drops from the lids.

"My God! captain," said the gentleman, with a bewildering stare, "what's all this? What has
happened?"

The old skipper merely made a motion with his hand toward the cabin, and, leaning painfully
against the rail, wept like a child. The gentleman's blood forsook his cheeks, and, with his
knees knocking together, he staggered like a drunken man toward the cabin door. A few minutes
later he emerged, bearing in his arms the sobbing, drooping form of his wife. Starting from
his close embrace for a moment as he bore her to the gangway, she gave one shuddering, terrified,
searching gaze over the blue water to seaward, and then, with a wailing cry of agony, that
would have shaken the hardest heart, she fell sobbing again into her husband's arms.

The voices and joyous shrieks of the negroes in the barge alongside subsided into low moaning
groans; four or five came up, and carefully lowered Banou down; then all got into the boat,
and she moved mournfully away toward the shore.

CHAPTER VIII.

CAPTAIN BRAND AT HOME.

