To return to the party of natives which has given rise to this digression. They had clearly
never seen a white person before; for they stepped up to one man of fair complexion, who had
his trousers turned up over his knees, and began rubbing his skin to see whether it was painted.
They came fearlessly to our party, as they were collecting shells at the extremity of a long
flat. One of the officers, who happened to be very thirsty, placed such confidence in their
friendly manner, that he allowed them to conduct him alone to a small well near the beach,
but the water was too salt to be drunk. The force of habit is astonishing: natives drink this
brackish fluid and find it very refreshing. The small quantity that suffices them is also surprising,
though they will drink enormously when they can get it.

MODES OF PROCURING WATER.

Their mode of procuring this necessary element is singular, and they exhibit in this particular
much ingenuity and great fertility of resources. They are never harassed with the idea of being
without any; which not only distresses but adds to the horror of thirst with the European explorer,
who has not experienced the constant watchfulness of Providence, and does not know that he
may collect from the leaves, with a sponge, on some mornings, as much as a pint of water. This
has, however, been done, even on the south coast, where the dews are not so copious as on the
north-west. The natives themselves are never at a loss for that indeed precious article, water.
They sometimes procure it by digging up the lateral roots of the small gumtree, a dusty and
fatiguing operation: they break them off in short bits, and set them up to drain into a piece
of bark or a large shell. By tapping also the knotty excrescences of trees they find the fluid,
which they suck out. Many of these modes of obtaining water are of course known to experienced
bushmen, like Mr. Eyre, whose deeply interesting narrative of his hardships and perils has
already enlisted the sympathy of the public.

September 12.

We moved the ship into Port Darwin, anchoring just within the eastern cliffy head which, to
commemorate Lieutenant Emery's success in finding water by digging, we named after him.

SURVEY OF THE HARBOUR.

All the surveying force was now put in instant requisition; Captain Wickham went to examine
an opening in the coast mentioned by Captain King, lying about twelve miles further to the
westward, whilst the other boats explored the openings at the head of the harbour.

That on the eastern part, Mr. Fitzmaurice traced ten miles in a south-easterly direction, being
the greatest distance it was navigable for a boat. The remaining branch in the large opening,
in the south-eastern corner of the harbour, Mr. Forsyth and myself explored South-South-East
three miles, and South-South-West five more, the extent to which it was possible to advance.
Beyond, it was strewed with large blocks of granite; a fact, for which we were in some degree
prepared, as in the vicinity of the Adelaide River we had proof of the primary formation of
this part of the continent. As the boat lay scarcely afloat between two of these lumps of rock,
numbers of white ibises, with black necks, kept flying over us from the southward, indicating
that a swamp lay in that direction. We also disturbed several alligators, who slid off quietly
into the water at our approach. There was no variety in the shores of this inlet, composed
like all the others, of an impenetrable network of mangroves. A ridge of the same conical-shaped
low hills before alluded to, as existing in this neighbourhood, rose upon our right as we came
up, and bore from our furthest North by West two miles; from the highest part up the inlet
in the south-west corner, east two miles.

The latter we found very tortuous, extending in a general direction south nine miles. No events
occurred worthy of any remark during our examination, except one of a trifling character: the
mosquitoes taking advantage of the calm, between the high mangroves on the banks, attacked
us most cruelly, a circumstance we mention as trifling, as far as the reader is concerned,
but of great moment to us.

After completing the survey of the southern and western portion of this harbour, we returned
to the ship, where soon afterwards Captain Wickham also arrived, having found Patterson Bay
to be a good port. It trended in south ten miles, and East-South-East the same distance, forming
quite an inner haven, which was named after Mr. Bynoe.

NATIVES ON A RAFT.

At the turning leading from the outer to the inner harbour they came suddenly in view of a
raft making across, a distance of three miles, on which were two women with several children,
whilst four or five men were swimming alongside, towing it and supporting themselves by means
of a log of wood across their chests. On perceiving the boat they instantly struck out for
the land leaving the women on the raft. For some time the latter kept their position, waiting
until the boat got quite near, when they gave utterance to a dreadful yell, and assuming at
the same time a most demoniacal aspect, plunged into the water as if about to abandon the children
to their fate.

MATERNAL AFFECTION AND FEAR.

Not so, however; despite the dreadful fear they appeared to entertain of the white man, maternal
affection was strong within them, and risking all to save their offspring, they began to tow
the raft with all their strength towards the shore. This devotion on the part of the women
to their little ones, was in strong contrast with the utter want of feeling shown by the men
towards both mothers and children.

Captain Wickham now, no doubt to their extreme consternation, pulled after the men, and drove
them back to the raft. Some dived and tried thus to escape the boat, while others grinned ferociously,
and appeared to hope, by dint of hideous grimaces--such as are only suggested even to a savage
by the last stage of fear--to terrify the white men from approaching. At length, however, they
were all driven back to the raft, which was then towed across the harbour for them; a measure
which they only were able to approve of when they had landed, and fear had quite subsided.

Doubtless, the forbearance of our party surprised them, for from their terrified looks and
manner, when swimming with all their strength from the raft, they must have apprehended a fate
at least as terrible as that of being eaten.

The raft itself was quite a rude affair, being formed of small bundles of wood lashed together,
without any shape or form, quite different from any we had seen before.

Bynoe Harbour was found to terminate in three deep creeks branching off between North-East
and South-East, the largest of which led into fresh water, but in small detached pools, which
are separated from the salt, by a shelf of red porous sandstone, and which two miles further
became entirely lost in the rocks. The green appearance of the gumtrees and an occasional clump
of palms, which had pleasingly succeeded the mangroves, as they advanced, assured Captain Wickham
that there was fresh water near. Probably, if they had carried their researches further, they
would have found these signs reappear again, doubtless proceeding from a swamp, the presence
of which the reader will recollect I inferred from seeing the ibis flocking from the south-west
up the south inlet in Port Darwin; the west inlet of which is only one mile distant from the
north-east creek in the head of Bynoe Harbour. Doubtless when the country is not in its present
parched and thirsty state, all these are fresh at their heads.

WELL AT PORT DARWIN.

The slow progress made in watering, from the soft nature of the soil in the bottom of the well,
lengthened our stay considerably in Port Darwin. The water oozed through the sides, beginning
to do so at a depth of twenty-five feet. The strata cut through varied considerably, in part
consisting of ironstone mixed with a white kind of marl or pipeclay, for eight feet, then sandstone
of a reddish colour and in a state of decomposition, with a darker kind of marl, in which were
small bits of mica, for a depth of sixteen feet, the remaining portion of two or three being
a sandy mud, apparently of the consistency of clay and of a light grey colour. The position
of this well is in a small valley at the east end of the first sandy bay within Point Emery,
in the centre of which the observations were made, placing it in latitude 12 degrees 27 minutes
45 seconds, longitude 1 degree 19 minutes 40 seconds, East of Port Essington.

On this beach several unsuccessful hauls were made with the seine, though a few rare and curious
fish were taken, which Lieutenant Emery added to his collection of coloured drawings of Australian
fish; some of them will be found in the appendix to this volume. Mr. Bynoe also obtained specimens
of one or two rare birds; the large red-necked vampire of the Adelaide River, and the cream-coloured
pigeon before alluded to, were also seen by him, being the farthest south the latter was met
with by us.

BRILLIANT METEORS.

Some brilliant meteors were observed during our stay, one in particular on the evening of the
20th, in the West-North-West. It fell from the zenith at an angle of about twenty degrees from
a vertical line. The descent was marked by a long train of light, visible ten seconds, while
others of less brilliancy followed from the same place within an hour. Again on the 23rd, was
the dark vault of heaven illumined about the same time in a similar manner, as well as on the
28th; the number of meteors being the same on each day.

We were rather surprised on the 24th, to experience a squall from the eastward about midnight,
a regular occurrence on the North-west coast in January and February only.

VISITED BY NATIVES.

On the 24th a party of natives made their appearance on Point Emery. Their voices, shrill like
those of all their fellows, were heard before they were seen. With these it was particularly
so, though on all occasions the speaking, and hallooing of the Aborigines can be heard at a
very considerable distance. They were found, when on shore, to be of the party we had before
seen in Shoal Bay, with the addition of five strange men. All appeared actuated by the same
friendly disposition, a very strong indication of which was their presenting themselves without
spears.* Like most others on that coast, they had apiece of bamboo, eighteen inches long, run
through the cartilage of the nose. Their astonishment at the size of the wells was highly amusing;
sudden exclamations of surprise and admiration burst from their lips, while the varied expressions
and play of countenance, showed how strongly their feelings were at work within.

(*Footnote. Speaking of natives appearing without spears, reminds me to mention for the information
of future explorers, that their arms are always near at hand. They even trail them sometimes
between their toes, a fact which travellers should ever bear in mind.)

It is very singular, and not very susceptible of explanation, that although they climb tall
trees by merely resting their toes in a slight notch cut as they ascend, the natives will hesitate
in alarm before looking over the edge of a precipice or height; it was, therefore, some time
before this party could be induced to look down the well. At length by stretching their spare
bodies and necks to the utmost, they caught sight of the water in the bottom.

SURPRISE OF NATIVES AT THE WELL.

The effect upon them was magical, and they stood at first as if electrified. At length their
feelings gained vent, and from their lips proceeded an almost mad shout of delight. Nothing
perhaps could have more decisively shown the superiority of the white men to these savages,
than our being thus able to procure this necessary of life from so great a depth, there being
moreover no outward appearance of any. Perhaps their delight may be considered a sign how scarce
is water in this part of the country. I should certainly say from the immense quantity each
man drank, which was two quarts, that this was the case. A further corroboration of the extreme
importance of this element to the Western Australian is, that a native, in describing a fine
country, always opens his narrative by stating the important fact--plenty water.

The deep interest which in the natives always succeeds to the discovery of this necessary article,
must strongly impress the explorer, who will ever afterwards look upon streams, even in other
countries, with far different feelings from any before experienced. In no land does the presence
of water more rapidly enrich the landscape, changing it from a thirsty-looking plain to a rich
green spot, than in Australia, and it is in journeying through such a country, when one suddenly
meets with a luxuriant valley, that the eye naturally dwells with delight on the changing scene,
and the impression, not easily forgotten, clings to us even when far away. When gazing on the
superabundant water that flows in almost every corner of the earth, we cannot but reflect on
the scantily supplied Australian, nor fail to wish him a more plentiful supply.

BLESSING OF WATER.

Naturally we are disposed to reflect but little on the great blessings of the most ordinary
things. In the eyes of the civilized man, fire and water are matters scarcely worthy of thought;
but it is the traveller who learns to appreciate how great blessings they are in reality.

An influenza appeared to be raging among the natives, all having the remnants of colds, coughing
severely when we met them. Several attempts were made to induce them to come on board, but
they proved vain. Sometimes, just as the boat was leaving the shore, they would enter the bow
of it, as if about to accompany us; no sooner, however, was the boat in motion, than out they
jumped, laughing and apparently delighted to deceive us, acting, in fact, exactly the part
of noisy children.

"IRRU, IRRU."

Our friendly intercourse with these natives sustained a shock, which at first threatened to
annihilate it, but which fortunately ended, as it began, in smoke. One of the officers used
a common flint and steel, in order to procure a light for his cigar; at this new mode of procuring
fire all eyes were open--for doubtless they procure it only by means of friction--but when
he proceeded to place the lighted cigar between his lips, and roll forth from thence a thick
and perfumed cloud, fright took full possession of them, and exclaiming "irru, irru," with
the arm extended, and a slight vertical motion of the hand, they darted off most unceremoniously,
clambering up the face of a precipitous cliff, with extraordinary agility. Their cry of "irru,
irru," and their manner of delivering it, were identical with those of King's Sound, under
somewhat similar circumstances. In a few days they had forgotten their fright, and had returned
to renew the friendly relations this little incident had interrupted.

During the short time we passed with this people in Port Darwin, some words of their language
were collected by many of us. Those that we all agreed in I have noted down, but the different
names for things given by the same person, here and at Shoal Bay, will at once impress the
reader with the conviction of how impossible it is for transient visitors to obtain a correct
vocabulary. Those first made out at Port Essington, were found to be half Malay words, and
of any meaning rather than what they were supposed to convey. The words given below are from
Mr. Earl's vocabulary, the result of four years careful examination and experience.

COLUMN 1: ENGLISH. COLUMN 2: SHOAL BAY. COLUMN 3: PORT DARWIN. COLUMN 4: PORT ESSINGTON. COLUMN
5: SWAN RIVER.

Crab : Algaura : - : Meir : -. Dog : Melinga : - : Mugki : Dudah. Ear : Bangua : - : Alayjar
: Zungah. Eye : Ummera : Mical : Ira : Mael. Hair : Brailma : Guarshiel : Angbal : Cutap. Hand
: - : Guian : - : -. Stone : - : Lowheil : - : -. Tree : Urmingua : - : Ojalli : Boono. Teeth
: Emburge : - : Aujije : Nalgo. Water : - : Kararback : - : Kaaby.

DIFFICULTY OF UNDERSTANDING THE NATIVES.

The great difference between the words at Shoal Bay and Port Darwin, must now be apparent to
the reader; a more extended acquaintance with the aboriginal inhabitants of Australia, has
shown that many words put down by us as meaning a certain thing, signify in reality, "What
do you mean?" "I do not understand"--which shows at once the great difficulty of arriving at
the truth. This must often be the case; for what is more natural, than that when a savage is
asked the meaning of a thing, and knows not, but that he should express his ignorance? How
often this expression of ignorance has been registered as the denomination of some animal or
thing, we leave the reader to conjecture. Moreover, there are many words totally obliterated
from their dialects, which thus undergo constant alteration. This in part arises from the circumstance
of their never mentioning the name of a deceased person, who has perhaps been called after
a tree, bird, or animal; which then receives another appellation, the old one passing away.
From the few words given of the respective dialects of Port Essington and Swan River, they
would appear essentially to differ, and from what has since come under my own observation,
as well as from facts collected by others, I feel confident that there are many distinct dialects
spoken in Australia.

DIALECTS OF AUSTRALIA.

It is easy enough for those who hold to the theory that Australia produces few dialects, to
create for themselves a resemblance in words by mutilation and addition; but on careful examination,
the similarity will not be found to exist. The natives we took from Swan River, never could
understand any of those we met on the North-west coast, though certainly Mr. Moore recognized
a few words spoken by the natives on the West coast, about 200 miles north of Swan River, as
being identical with the language used at the latter place.

It may here be as well to quote Strzelecki on this subject, ere we pursue our narrative:

"The circumstance of the three natives who accompanied Captain Flinders and Captain P.P. King,
in the survey of New Holland, and of those who accompanied me amongst the different tribes
of New South Wales, being unable to understand one word spoken by tribes of other districts,
would lead to the belief that the dialects spoken in New Holland, are far from possessing those
affinities, still less those identities of language, from which a common root might be inferred.
Those European visitors or explorers who adduce, in support of a common root, some hundred
words analogous in sound, construction and meaning, as being spoken all over New Holland, have
jumped to the conclusion with, I fear, too much haste and eagerness. Besides many other insuperable
difficulties, which an investigation of such a nature presents, there was one quite sufficient
to defeat all attempts to fathom the subject, namely, the syntactic ignorance of the language
to which the inquiry related. Indeed, to any man who knows and speaks four European languages,
it will be at once apparent, that to seize upon, and note from the sound, a word belonging
to one country, so as to compare its sound and accentuation with a word belonging to another
country, needs a thorough knowledge of the genius of the two languages, and of their alphabet,
through which alone the pronunciation can be discriminated."

Though, however, we may not attain to a knowledge of the truth at once, yet should we never
lose an opportunity of making a vocabulary of such words as we know to be correct. This should
be the case from one consideration alone; for how gratifying it is, when visiting an uncivilized
people, to find that you know a word or two of their language! The satisfaction is mutual--there
is at once a sympathetic link between you--you no longer appear as thorough strangers to each
other, and this slight knowledge of their dialect may often be the means of making useful acquaintances.

To return, however, to the thread of our narrative.

LEAVE PORT DARWIN.

The opening to the westward, visited by Captain Wickham, requiring further examination, we
left Port Darwin for that purpose, beating out on the morning of the 26th. Before taking leave,
however, of this place, it will not be deemed irrelevant if we give some slight description
of it. The entrance points, I have already said, are white cliffy projections, and distant
from each other three miles. Just outside them lies a long four fathom bank, which, together
with a very extensive flat of one, and two fathoms, nearly joining it from the eastern side,
and another fronting the north side of the west entrance point, comprise all the dangers on
entering this port; which, although of considerable size, is much occupied by shoal water,
particularly on the western side, commencing from abreast of Talc Head. The best anchorage
is near Point Emery. The extreme of the latter, and a clump of peaked bushes on the south point
of the eastern arm of the harbour, when in one, make a good mark for leading out; passing on
the west side of the four fathom bank, where the channel is a mile wide and 10 fathoms deep.

IRREGULARITY OF THE TIDES.

The tide is very irregular in Port Darwin, rising at springs 24 feet, and at neaps sometimes
only two; its rate being from one and a half to three knots. The time of high-water at the
full and change of moon, was half-past five, which being half an hour earlier than at Clarence
Strait, fully bears out the opinion I have before expressed, that the flood-tide comes from
the westward.

Having to beat out against the seabreeze, the flood-tide made before we could get round the
point on the coast lying midway between Ports Darwin and Patterson, and we were compelled to
pass the night in the neighbourhood, a circumstance rendered disagreeable by the recurrence
of another midnight squall from East-North-East, so severe as to require the use of a second
anchor. The rain was so bitterly cold and sudden, as well as violent, acting also on our frames
with more severity from the lightness of our clothing, that it had all the effect of a shower-bath,
momentarily taking away the power of speech. It caused a rapid fall in the thermometer of ten
degrees, bringing it as low as 60 degrees. At Port Darwin it had been regularly 87 and 89 degrees
in the day, and 80 degrees at night.

MIDNIGHT SQUALL.

The squall gave but slight warning of its approach, and four hours afterwards the mutinous
assemblage of clouds had wholly disappeared from the heavens, leaving nothing to stay the advent
of light which came pouring itself in floods of molten glory over the cloudless sky, as the
morning broke. This was the signal of our again moving towards Port Patterson, which we entered,
passing on the eastern side of the reef in the mouth, and anchoring close to the eastern shore
of the outermost of a chain of sandy islets, forming the west entrance point of the harbour,
and extending eight miles in a North-North-East 1/2 East direction from the land. This group
is based on a great coral ledge that dries in part at low-water, thus affording the natives
the means of going over easily to them, a circumstance of which they avail themselves, as we
found them on the outer island. They would not, however, come near us, moving off as we landed.
Doubtless the terror of some of their party, in a great measure arose from a vivid recollection
of the raft interview, which was likely to dwell long in their minds; at all events, if not
of the same party, they had heard of us, and it will readily be believed, that we had been
painted in sufficiently terrible and exaggerated colours to render a second interview, in their
minds, very undesirable.

QUAIL ISLAND.

Our discovering them in this place, which we named Quail Island, from that bird being found
in great abundance, quite destroyed the hope we had previously entertained of procuring turtle
there. It was the season for their incubation, and at that time the island swarmed with them;
but our sable friends had abundantly availed themselves of this fact, as we saw the remains
of several of their turtle feasts. Although low, and composed entirely of sand, we found a
native well of excellent water near the middle of the island, which, having been enlarged,
afforded an ample supply, a circumstance that at once renders this a spot of importance and
value. Both on this and others of the group there were a few small trees and a sprinkling of
brushwood.

We did not notice any of the singular detached hills seen at Port Darwin, and the greatest
elevation any of the land in the neighbourhood attained was 200 feet; neither did we observe
any primary rocks.

The observations were made at the South-East point of Quail Island, which by them is placed
in latitude 12 degrees 30 9/10 minutes South, and longitude 1 degree 42 1/4 minutes West of
Port Essington. The almost insulated character of this part of the coast, and the quantity
of soundings the openings required detained us until the 6th of October, when we passed out
on the western side of the large reef in the centre of the entrance, which is the proper one,
and received the name of West Channel. The western entrance point of Bynoe's Harbour, bearing
South 15 degrees East, leads through it. This guide is only, however, of service to a certain
distance within the entrance, as it leads over a small patch that dries at low-water, distant
two and a half miles from the above-mentioned point on the same bearing. To avoid this danger,
it is therefore necessary to haul over towards Quail Island, when the highest hummock on it
bears South-West 1/2 West. The tides follow the direction of the channel, varying in velocity
from one to two knots. The ebb in the offing set West-North-West.

PORT PATTERSON.

The reader will be able to have an idea of the large sheet of water these united harbours form,
by knowing that Port Patterson is twelve miles long and seven wide at the entrance; though
at the upper part, forming the mouth of Bynoe Harbour, it is not half that width. The latter
winds round to the South-East for a distance of 15 miles, with an average width of two, and
a depth of nine fathoms. Thus terminated our exploration in this neighbourhood; the result
having been to give this part of the coast quite an insulated character. The sheets of water
creating this new feature, although monotonous with their mangrove-lined shores, still conveyed
us many miles into various parts of the continent that had never before been seen by a civilized
being.

Another opening of far greater magnitude, and promising in all probability to lead far into
the interior now lay before us, at a distance of 140 miles further on the coast to the south-west.
By the evening we had lost sight of the land near Port Patterson, and were steering towards
the opening that promised so much. A gap in the coastline, 28 miles wide, with a strong tide
passing to and fro, failed not to give birth to endless speculation as we approached the spot.
I had always looked forward to the examination of this unexplored portion of the North-west
coast, as one of the most interesting parts of our survey.

REACH POINT PEARCE.

In consequence of light north-west and westerly winds, our approach was tantalizingly slow,
and we did not enter the opening until the evening of the 9th, when we passed four miles from
the north point, called by Captain King, Point Pearce. At sun set the anchor was dropped in
five fathoms; Point Pearce, a cliffy level projection, bearing North-West by North five miles,
and about one and a half from a low rocky point.

FOSSIL HEAD.

A bluff projection, bearing South 65 degrees East seven miles, bounded our view to the southward,
and a range of sugarloaf hills, the highest being 350 feet, rose about eight miles in the rear
of it.

October 10.

We were naturally very anxious to proceed, and as soon as there was sufficient light to read
the division of the bearing compass, the ship was gently stealing onward in the direction of
the bluff, and furthest land seen last evening to the South-East. We had not proceeded far
before we discovered a distant level range, beginning to show itself to the right of this projection,
adding still more to the zest with which we pursued our search. The tide, however, making against
us, and the wind gradually failing, we were compelled to anchor abreast, and distant three
quarters of a mile from the north-west point of a bay two miles wide.

The bluff headland, before alluded to, forms the south-east point of this bay, and to which
Captain Wickham and myself hastened instantly the ship was secured.

We found a few fossils on the side of this ridge, as we ascended, which at once induced us
to name it, Fossil Head. Our view was decisive of the fact, that all further progress eastward
was at an end, but to the south sandbanks and patches of dark-coloured water bounding our view
left still great hope. The high land terminated abruptly to the southward, whilst looking to
the northward it appeared to subside in an East-North-East direction. The base of this range
was fronted by a low piece of land, stretching out on its north-west side, and forming a point
which bore South 35 degrees East five miles from Fossil Head.

TABLE HILL.

But the most remarkable feature in the scene was an isolated flat-topped hill, having all the
appearance of a bastion or fortress, rising abruptly from the surrounding plain, to an elevation
of 650 feet, the upper part being a line of cliffs, greatly adds to the appearance it presents,
that of a complete fortification. It bore North 85 degrees East, fourteen miles from Fossil
Head; and the country between was very low, and intersected by a creek about midway. This remarkable
piece of land is called in the chart Table Hill; an inlet trended in towards the foot of it.

We noticed several old traces of natives; the country in the neighbourhood was of a stony desolate
character, yet appeared to afford nourishment for a small growth of white gums. After examining
two mangrove creeks of no importance, in the north-west corner of the bay fronting the ship,
we returned.

Our hopes of finding a river of some magnitude were not in the least destroyed from what we
had seen from Fossil Head, and the southerly direction of the flood-stream fostered our belief.
Independent of these signs, we felt that we were again entering upon a new part of the continent,
and the thoughts thus engendered acted like a powerful stimulant, so that we were not easily
cast down.

The tide serving badly, and the day being far advanced, it was decided that we should not move
the ship till next morning, when after getting abreast of Fossil Head, we steered from it on
the bearing of the deep-water channel we had seen yesterday. We proceeded cautiously, feeling
our way with the boats ahead. After passing some distance along the eastern side of a long
dry sandbank, we were obliged again to anchor, both boats signalizing a depth of only two fathoms.

FIND A CHANNEL FOR THE SHIP.

Table Hill bore North 46 degrees East, fifteen miles, and Fossil Head North 15 degrees West.
It was now necessary to find a channel for the ship, which I succeeded in doing the next day,
and on that following, the 12th, Captain Wickham, Mr. Bynoe, and myself, went to visit the
high table range, while Messrs. Fitzmaurice and Keys were to examine the large inlet running
in towards the foot of Table Hill.

By following a creek we almost reached the foot of the high level range in the boat; a line
of cliffs stretched along near the summit, beneath which it sloped down rapidly to the plain.
We ascended by a slight valley, communicating with a break in the cliffs, but found on reaching
the top that instead of being on a level, we were standing amidst a series of undulations or
low hills, forming the crest of a platform, but so blended together, and of so nearly the same
height as to appear in the distance one continuous plain. It was, therefore, with some difficulty
that we could find the highest part, each, until we reached it, appearing to be so. Ultimately
I was compelled to climb a tree, in order to obtain the necessary angles.

VIEW FROM TABLE HILL.

The view was very extensive, a wide inlet separating the range we stood on from other high
land trending southward, with great irregularity, from the base of which stretched out a long
plain, similar to that which lay at our feet. The latter was intersected by creeks that could
be traced by the mangrove fringe which marked their course. Many parts of the low lands were
covered with a salt incrustation, and here and there were scattered trees deposited by the
overflows of the water, that still appeared to flow from the southward. The sight of this driftwood
and many minor appearances, was indeed most welcome, and added full confirmation to the opinion
that we were now within the mouth of a large river.

To the South-West, and distant thirteen miles, were two large islands, which from the remarkable
shape of two patches of trees on their northern ends, we named Quoin and Clump Islands. A small
patch of low land was discovered beyond them, between which and Quoin Island appeared the proper
channel. That, however, lying between the islands seemed sufficiently large for the ship. Being
moreover within our immediate reach, it was determined that we should proceed by it.

MACADAM RANGE.

A remarkable change here occurred in the character of the country, the hills being now composed
of a white, and very compact kind of sandstone. In the cliffs the strata were very marked,
dipping to the South-East at an angle of about thirty degrees with the horizon. The base and
sides of these heights were thickly strewn with small fragments of sandstone. The appearance
presented was precisely similar to that of a new road, after it had undergone the improving
process invented by Mr. McAdam, in whose honour, therefore, we named this McAdam Range.

A large light-coloured kangaroo was the only living thing we saw. A short green-looking grass
was thinly sprinkled over the country, imparting a freshness to it, which, in contrast with
the aridity that had of late surrounded us, was quite delightful.

Crossing the flat on returning to the boat, I was much struck by one particular spot on the
border of a creek. I came suddenly upon a number of flat stones placed in rows, one upon the
other. Though altogether covering about ten yards of ground, there was no appearance of any
shape in their arrangement. I am still puzzled, to determine whether they were merely the results
of childish amusement, or had performed their part in some magical incantation or religious
ceremony of the natives. I am the more inclined to think it was the latter, as there was a
native grave near, covered with the same kind of flat stones, to the height of about three
feet. We had not before observed anything like it, neither did we afterwards. Several flights
of large curlews were seen passing over the boat, and resting on the flats in its neighbourhood.
Whilst endeavouring to procure some of them, I was placed in a sufficiently awkward position,
running the risk of becoming myself a fresh meal instead of procuring one.

NARROW ESCAPE FROM AN ALLIGATOR.

I had stripped to swim across a creek, and with gun in hand was stealthily crawling to the
outer edge of the flat where my intended victims were, when an alligator rose close by, bringing
his unpleasant countenance much nearer than was agreeable. My gun was charged with shot, and
the primitive state of nudity to which I had just reduced myself, precluded the possibility
of my having a second load. To fire therefore was useless, and to retreat difficult, for I
had wandered from the boat some distance across the bank, on which the water was fast rising.
Thought, there was no time for, and before my companions could have reached me, the tide would
have flooded the place sufficiently to enable the alligator to attack me at a disadvantage.
My only chance of escaping the monster was to hasten back to the boat, and to cross the last
creek before the alligator, who appeared fully aware of my intentions. It was now, therefore,
a mere matter of speed between us, and the race began. I started off with the utmost rapidity,
the alligator keeping pace with me in the water. After a sharp and anxious race, I reached
the last creek, which was now much swollen; while the difficulty of crossing was aggravated
by my desire to save my gun. Plunging in I reached the opposite shore just in time to see the
huge jaws of the alligator extended close above the spot where I had quitted the water. My
deliverance was providential, and I could not refrain from shuddering as I sat gaining breath
upon the bank after my escape, and watching the disappointed alligator lurking about as if
still in hopes of making his supper upon me. Waiting till the monster came close, I took a
deliberate aim at his eye, which had only the effect of frightening him a little.

The wind, which was light, blew from the North-East from sunset last evening until noon, being
the first land-wind we had yet experienced. The temperature remained nearly the same as at
Port Patterson, the maximum being here 86, and the minimum 81.

October 13.

We got on board about noon, and the next day Mr. Fitzmaurice returned. He had found Table Hill
to be a perfect natural fortress, accessible only at the South-East corner by a slight break
in the line of cliffs surrounding it; the large inlet terminated in a creek passing close at
the southern foot of the hill, where it branched off in an east and north-east direction, and
in the course of three miles, became lost at the western extremity of some low thickly-wooded
plains, which extended eastward as far as the eye could reach. To the south lay McAdam Range,
which declining to the eastward, was at length blended with the plain, the eye finding some
difficulty in determining where the hills ended and the plain commenced.

HOPES OF DISCOVERING A RIVER.

All the soundings and other data for the chart, in the immediate neighbourhood, were collected
by the 16th, when the ship was got underweigh, as soon as the tide, which here rose twenty
feet, was high enough. After passing through a channel, six and seven fathoms deep, which the
dry extreme of the sandbank fronting the flat, extending off McAdam Range, bearing South-South-East
led through, we hauled over to the westward for a swash way in the sands, extending off the
north-west end of Clump Island. In crossing the inlet, running under the south end of McAdam
Range, we found as much as ten fathoms, a depth that led to the hope of its being of great
importance, perhaps indeed the mouth of a river. Passing between Clump and Quoin Islands, we
anchored midway between the latter and Driftwood Island, a proceeding which the approach of
high-water rendered necessary, as from the great fall of the tide we were obliged at that time
to have at least seven fathoms. We were now surrounded on all sides by flat shores, and from
the masthead, I could trace the low land forming the western side of the principal channel.
The high land south of McAdam Range, was found to terminate in a remarkable peak, which in
the certainty of our search proving successful, we named River Peak. It was almost blended
in one with a range beyond, yet the fact of the distance which really existed between them,
did not escape our anxious observation; and it was indeed in the different shade of these two
ranges, one being less distinct than the other, that we found ample confirmation of our hopes.

PREPARATIONS FOR EXPLORING.

It was soon arranged that Captain Wickham and myself, should at once dispel all doubts, and
that next morning, Messrs. Fitzmaurice and Keys should start to explore the river-like opening,
under the south end of McAdam Range, to which we have above alluded.

DISCOVERY OF THE VICTORIA.

Our preparations were rapidly made, a few days provisions were stowed away in the boat, and
as the western sky glowed red in the expiring light of day, the gig was running before a north-west
breeze, for the chasm in the distant high land, bearing South 20 degrees East, twelve miles
from the ship. As we advanced, the separations in the range became more marked and distinct,
as long as the light served us, but presently darkness wrapped all in impenetrable mystery.
Still we ran on keeping close to the eastern low land, and just as we found that the course
we held no longer appeared to follow the direction of the channel, out burst the moon above
the hills in all its glory, shedding a silvery stream of light upon the water, and revealing
to our anxious eyes the long looked-for river, rippling and swelling, as it forced its way
between high rocky ranges. Under any circumstances the discovery would have been delightful,
but the time, the previous darkness, the moon rising and spreading the whole before us like
a panorama, made the scene so unusually exciting, that I forbear any attempt to describe the
mingled emotions of that moment of triumph. As we ran in between the frowning heights, the
lead gave a depth of eighteen and twenty fathoms, the velocity of the stream at the same time
clearly showing how large a body of water was pouring through. "This is indeed a noble river!"
burst from several lips at the same moment; "and worthy," continued I, "of being honoured with
the name of her most gracious majesty the Queen:" which Captain Wickham fully concurred in,
by at once bestowing upon it the name of Victoria River.

A glance at the map will show that we have not overrated its importance, or acted hastily in
calling it the Victoria; and it must be admitted that as the Murray is to South-eastern Australia,
so in value and importance is the great river Victoria, to the opposite side of the continent.

Pursuing our course between the rocky heights, in a south-east direction, the outline of a
high peaked hill, standing between two ranges, became visible, appearing, even at that time,
so remarkable as to be named Endeavour Hill.* The wind failing, we pushed into a small opening
out of the stream, on the right hand, to pass the night.

(*Footnote. Afterwards found to be 690 feet, the highest in the neighbourhood.)

VIEW FROM LEADING HILL.

Anxious to trace further the course of the river, Captain Wickham and myself ascended the top
of a neighbouring hill before early dawn. The view which presented itself when the day broke,
was fraught with every charm of novelty. A rapid stream passing between barren rocky heights,
here stealing along in calm silence, there eddying and boiling as it swept past, lay at our
feet. By a sudden bend two miles east of where we stood, it was hid from our view; the ranges
overlapping, however, still pointed out the further course of the Victoria. The boat lay in
the mouth of a creek, which communicating with another four miles further down, formed an island
on the eastern side of the river, which we called Entrance Isle.

The formation of this part was a sandstone of a reddish hue, and in a state of decomposition.
A wiry grass and the never-failing eucalyptus were sparingly scattered over the face of the
country, which round the entrance had a most unpromising and dreary appearance, showing at
a glance its utterly sterile character.

EXPLORATION OF THE RIVER.

Taking a hasty breakfast, we pulled up the river; the tortuous nature of the first reaches,
changing their directions suddenly from north to east-south-east with a depth of seventeen
and twenty fathoms, produces violent eddies and whirlpools. Passing these, a splendid sheet
of water lay before us, trending south-east by south, as far as the eye could reach from the
boat, and more than a mile wide. In the first part of this we had a few shoal casts of the
lead, but afterwards the depth was eight and ten fathoms, it being near low-water. In order
to catch a glance at what was beyond, and to spell the oars, we landed at a point on the east
side, from which Endeavour Hill bore West 1/2 South three miles. Here the river, by taking
a slight turn more to the southward, was again lost sight of. We were sorry to perceive that
it was much occupied by shoals, that showed themselves at this time of tide. The first began
five miles beyond our station, commencing from abreast of a rugged ridge, on the west bank.
The singular manner in which the blocks of sandstone were strewed over this height, caused
it to bear a strong resemblance to old ruins. The appearance of the country had not as yet
improved, though the sandstone had lost that reddish hue we had noticed in the morning, while
preserving the very marked dip to the south-east.

Continuing we found the change in the direction of the river very slight, and at the end of
sixteen miles it suddenly turned off to the eastward, which I was sorry to find, as its diverging
from its original south-easterly direction, appeared likely to disappoint our expectation that
the Victoria would prove a highroad to the interior of the continent. The width had hitherto
been almost two miles, but there was not sufficient depth to give us any hope of bringing the
ship up thus far.

APPEARANCE OF THE COUNTRY.

The country now began to assume a more cheerful aspect. The hills exhibited no longer the same
rugged outline, and were better clothed with vegetation. From the top of one of a conical group,
forming the north point of the river where it changes to the eastward, I could trace its direction
but little further.

On the opposite side the hills receded, forming an amphitheatre round a level plain, through
which ran a creek. On its banks, for the first time, we saw fires of the natives. Here, also
for the first time, we noticed the gouty-stem trees; whilst the slope of the hill we ascended
was covered with a tolerable sprinkling of grass. Kangaroos, likewise, were observed on every
side springing along the turf; and a few great alligators passed up the stream, after reconnoitering
our boat at the risk of a shot or two.

We were now nearly thirty miles from the ship; and a few stations were still necessary to be
made to complete the survey so far. Our proceeding farther was therefore useless, especially
as an exploring expedition must pass up the river; and retracing our steps we reached the ship
near midnight on the 20th. The intelligence of the success of our cruise was received on board
with an enthusiasm which explorers only can appreciate. Mr. Fitzmaurice had not returned, which
favoured my surmises that he would find a river.

October 21.

Mr. Forsyth having collected all the necessary material for the survey near the ship, we shifted
our berth this afternoon into deeper water, between the south end of Quoin Island and another
small islet to the south-west, which from our operations on its south-eastern corner we called
Observation Island. The weather was very remarkable in the evening--dark patches of clouds
appearing in the western horizon, from which vivid lightnings flashed, and loud peals of thunder
roared. The frightened stream of the sea-birds evinced how seldom nature puts on such an aspect
in this place.

CAPTAIN WICKHAM ASCENDS THE VICTORIA.

Before proceeding further with the ship, it was necessary to feel our way with the boats. Whilst
this was going on, Captain Wickham determined on pushing up the river in the gig to ascertain
if it was fresh sufficiently near to water the ship from, when she had been taken as far up
the Victoria as it was possible. He left next morning on this more than interesting trip.

FITZMAURICE RIVER.

The same afternoon Mr. Fitzmaurice returned, having, as we had suspected, discovered a river
that carried his boat thirty miles in an east direction from the south end of McAdam Range.
Towards the upper part it was scarcely half a mile wide; but for an Australian stream was remarkably
free from bends, pursuing a straight course between rocky heights, with a depth varying from
two to seven fathoms. Many shoals occurred towards the entrance, where in some places it was
more than two miles wide. This river was named Fitzmaurice River after its discoverer; and
the mouth or inlet of it, after his companion, Keys Inlet.

In sounding the channel, I found that when the hill Captain Wickham and myself were first on,
behind Entrance Isle, was in a line with the north end of the high land at the south side of
the entrance, it formed a good lead up. In consequence we named it Leading Hill, and the end
of the range alluded to, Indian Hill, from our constantly seeing smoke near it. A flat of three
or four fathoms at low-water extended across the channel, with River Peak bearing between North
35 East and North 64 East. I visited Indian Hill, but failed to meet with any of the natives,
although I saw their fires not far off in the hills to the south-west. It is a ridge covered
with blocks of sandstone, with a few trees here and there. From its summit I had an extensive
view of the low land stretching away to the northward, and forming the western side of the
channel. It appeared so cut up with creeks as to form a mass of islands and mud flats, which
appeared from the quantity of drift timber, to be frequently overflowed, and partially so apparently
at high spring tides. The farthest high land I saw bore west about twelve miles.

MEMORIAL ON INDIAN HILL.

I left here a paper in a bottle, giving an account of our proceedings, and should have been
sorry to think, as Wallis did when he left a similar document on a mountain in the Strait of
Magellan, that I was leaving a memorial that would remain untouched as long as the world lasts.
No, I would fain hope that ere the sand of my life-glass has run out, other feet than mine
will have trod these distant banks; that colonization will, ere many years have passed, have
extended itself in this quarter; that cities and hamlets will have risen on the banks of the
new-found river, that commerce will have directed her track thither, and that smoke may rise
from Christian hearths where now alone the prowling heathen lights his fire. There is an inevitable
tendency in man to create; and there is nothing which he contemplates with so much complacency
as the work of his own hands. To civilize the world, to subdue the wilderness, is the proudest
achievement to which he can look forward; and to share in this great work by opening new fields
of enterprise, and leading, as it were, the van of civilisation, fills the heart with inexpressible
delight. It is natural, therefore, as I traced the record of our visit and deposited it on
Indian Hill, that I should look forward in a mood very far different from that of Wallis, to
the speedy fruition of my hopes.

October 27.

The winds for the last few days had been from West-North-West to North-West, light after midnight
to near noon, then moderate and sometimes fresh. The tides, as they approached the springs,
increased their velocity, occasionally coming down in bores at the rate of four and five knots.

RETURN OF CAPTAIN WICKHAM.

Captain Wickham returned this morning, having discovered the river to be fresh about seventy
miles above the ship. For some distance it had not decreased in size, which was very delightful
news. I had been several times on the point of inquiring on this subject; but fearing an unfavourable
reply, hesitated. Now my hopes were at their highest pitch, and I was quite impatient to start
on an expedition up the river.

On the 29th the ship was taken under my guidance up the river, as far as the commencement of
the long southerly reach. As the shoals in that part had not been sufficiently examined, we
proceeded to do so in the evening, and two channels were discovered; one between a bank, dry
at low-water, and a covered patch of one and a half and two fathoms, and the other between
the covered bank and the east shore; the latter, although the narrower, I found to be the better.
The tides set direct through it, and to keep close to the bank is a simple and sure guide.
The least water is four fathoms, half a fathom more than was found in the other, the direction
of which crossed the set of the tide when the bank on the west side became covered.

THE BEAGLE TAKEN UP THE VICTORIA.

Next morning we moved the ship three miles further up into a bight on the east side from which
Endeavour Hill bore West 13 South two miles and a half.

The Beagle was now nearly fifty miles up the Victoria, and might have gone seven miles further,
but a valley holding out a hope that we might find water by digging, and the distance at which
the river was fresh being too great for us to think of completing our stock from it, we anchored
abreast of it. Whilst on shore getting observations for the errors of the chronometers in the
afternoon, I could not avoid soliloquising as I gazed on the ship lying surrounded by lofty
rocky heights, that towered above her masts till they appeared mere sticks. The contrast forcibly
presented itself between the comparative insignificance to which she was reduced by the elevation
of the hills around, and the majestic appearance she was accustomed to bear when among the
low lands of which we had seen so much. The sight reminded me of early years of wandering within
the narrow arms of the sea in Tierra del Fuego, save and except there were not the forests
of ages to hide the nakedness of the land, which even there was clothed to the water's edge.

EXPLORATION OF THE VICTORIA.

The expedition, consisting of the two large boats and gig, with Captain Wickham, who was to
show them the watering place, left the ship early on the morning of the 31st of October. I
was to follow in one of the whaleboats, and explore the upper parts in company with Captain
Wickham; and after completing the survey near the ship, I was at last fairly off to explore
the Victoria with the first glimmer of light the morning following, once more to revel in scenes
where all was new. How amply is the explorer repaid by such sights for all his toils! To ascend
a hill and say you are the first civilized man that has ever trod on this spot; to gaze around
from its summit and behold a prospect over which no European eye has ever before wandered;
to descry new mountains; to dart your eager glance down unexplored valleys, and unvisited glens;
to trace the course of rivers whose waters no white man's boat has ever cleaved, and which
tempt you onwards into the bosom of unknown lands: these are the charms of an explorer's life.

Mr. Forsyth accompanied me. We landed nearly opposite the rugged ridge I have before mentioned,
for a few angles and bearings. Here we found two native rafts of precisely the same construction
as those we had previously seen on the North-west coast, formed out of nine poles. The shape
the reader will remember from the sketch in that part of the work, and with the exception of
only two instances, where they appeared merely temporary affairs, we have noticed no other
kind of rafts in use. Wherever this great similarity in their mode of water-conveyance prevails,
we may infer the natives have had communication with each other.

We passed the night in the end of a crooked reach, near the only rocky islet in the river,
lying four miles East-South-East from the furthest point I had before attained. With the exception
of a squall from north-east in the afternoon, there was scarcely any wind, and the night was
cloudy with some slight showers of rain. As the mosquitoes allowed us little rest, we were
glad, when the day broke, to be again moving. We now found the river take a north-east direction
for eight miles, averaging in width upwards of three-quarters of a mile, and in depth at low-water
two fathoms. A sudden change in the trend of the reaches brought in sight the strange appearance
of the country represented in the woodcut annexed.

CURIOSITY PEAK.

The peak on the right bank we named, from the passion it assisted us in gratifying, Curiosity
Peak. Landing at the foot we were not long reaching the summit, although the thermometer was
90 degrees in the shade. The river formed a remarkable feature in the landscape before us,
to the north-east; and behind it rose a high table-range of hills, from five to six hundred
feet in elevation. These were capped with low reddish-coloured cliffs.

WHIRLWIND PLAINS.

At their feet stretched an extensive and seemingly boundless plain in a north-east direction,
whilst on the south-east side, and distant about eighteen miles from where we stood, low ranges
of hills were visible. Here and there over the plains were many small whirlwinds appearing
in the distance like streaks of smoke curling upwards through the air. These, though affording
relief to the eye in the wide prospect that opened before us, are fraught with danger when
occurring on the river; for on one occasion they nearly upset the gig, and threatened to consign
its crew to a watery grave. In the present instance they gave an impulse to our invention,
suggesting the propriety of designating the level tract of country before us, Whirlwind Plains.
The high land rising suddenly out of it, and bounding it very abruptly on the north-west side,
we named Sea Range. We could trace the river passing along at its foot in an East-North-East
direction for nine miles, when it appeared to cross the plain; a large island lying midway
changed its course for a short distance.

I found a strange kind of fruit growing in a hollow, near the top of Curiosity Peak; the tree
was small and leafless, with the fruit hanging in bunches about the size of a damascene plum,
of the colour of a peach, and containing a large stone. I afterwards had a pie made of this
fruit, which proved to be by no means bad eating.

Besides the sandstone of which the peak is composed, I found a kind of slate on the north-west
side. Several banks showed themselves, leaving at that time of tide scarcely a boat channel,
although the river was a mile wide at high-water. A great part of the day was occupied in collecting
material for the chart of this part, and we passed the night near the foot of Curiosity Peak.
On the grassy flat opposite, I killed five white ibises at a shot.

At sunset, I noticed large flocks of a rather small brown pigeon, constantly flying from Whirlwind
Plains to the north-west, and back again in the morning. The mosquitoes did not give us any
peace again this night.

ENCOUNTER AN ALLIGATOR.

November 3.

Starting early, we had just passed all the shoals in the neighbourhood of Curiosity Peak, and
entered a narrow part of the river, when the leadsman in the bows of the boat reported, "A
large alligator coming down the stream, sir." Elated by the expectation of sport, we instantly
grounded the boat on the right bank to keep her steady, and waited anxiously for the monster's
approach. It will readily be believed, that every eye was fixed upon him as he slowly advanced,
scarcely disturbing the glassy surface of the water, and quite unconscious of the fate that
impended over him. At length he came abreast, and about eighty yards off, only the flat crown
of his head, and the partly serrated ridge along his back, appearing in sight. It was a moment
of deep excitement for us all, and everyone held his breath in suspense as I pointed my gun
at the brute's head.

EFFECT OF A SHOT.

I felt confident of hitting my mark; but judging from the little effect I had produced on former
occasions, scarcely dreamt of the execution my ball actually did. It happened that to-day I
was in excellent practice, and had just hit a large wild dog, a long shot, making him jump
high off the ground; but this beast is as tenacious of life as a cat, and instead of falling
dead, he limped off and escaped. But to resume: I fired, and never heard a ball strike with
more satisfaction in my life. It laid the alligator sprawling, feet uppermost. There was no
time to be lost in getting him on shore; two or three strokes with the oars brought us alongside
of the monster, as he floated on the surface of the stream. The business was to attach a line
to one of his legs; and as we knew that he was not dead, but only stunned, this was rather
a nervous operation. I noticed indeed a hesitation among the men, as to who should venture,
and fearing lest our prize should escape, I seized the line and made it fast to one of his
fore-legs, when we proceeded to the shore, dragging him alongside. Before reaching it, however,
our friend gave signs of reviving animation, and as we could not foresee to what extent he
might regain his activity, we dropped him astern, clear of the boat, fearing lest in floundering
about he might stave in her broadside. In doing so, moreover, and by way of a sedative, I fired
a charge of large shot at his head, the muzzle of the gun not being a yard from it; and yet
the only effect produced, was a slight stupor of the intellectual faculties, evinced by a momentary
state of quiescence.

THE ALLIGATOR ON SHORE.

On reaching the shore, the men jumped out to haul the alligator up on the dry land, and began
to pull away vigorously. It was a comic scene to witness. They expected to have some difficulty
in performing their task; but suddenly they found the rope slacken, and looking round beheld
the alligator walking up after them of his own accord, faster than was pleasant. In their haste,
endeavouring to keep the rope taut, one fellow tripped up; and it was for a moment a question
whether he would not be snapped in two; the feeling of alarm, however, soon gave way to a sense
of the ludicrous, at beholding the manner in which he gathered himself up into a ball and rolled
out of the alligator's way. I thought it now high time to take decisive measures, and with
another shot altered the intentions of the monster, who endeavoured to back towards the water.
Perhaps if he had been further away from it, I might have been tempted to try Waterton's experiment.

It was not before he had received six balls in the head, that he consented to be killed. During
the operation he exhibited something of his savoir faire, by opening his mouth, that looked
like a gigantic man-trap, and suddenly shutting it with a loud snap, which made us shudder,
and forcibly recalled to mind the escape I had had a few days before, from having my body embraced
by such a pair of jaws.

The reader will gather a good idea of their size from the woodcut; and their power of holding
will be shown in the description accompanying. The view annexed represents the moment when
the alligator received the first shot on shore; the singular character of Sea Range is also
shown, and the small whirlwinds I have alluded to, as having the appearance of smoke.

DESCRIPTION OF THE ALLIGATOR.

Length of Alligator, 15 feet. From base of head to extreme of nose 2 feet 2 inches. Across
the base of head, 2 feet. Length of lower jaw, 2 feet.

CONTENTS OF ITS STOMACH.

All the alligator's stomach contained was about fourteen pounds of pebbles, some of them measuring
four inches in diameter. We were some time skinning the monster, and after securing a little
of the best part of the flesh for eating,* proceeded on our way.

(*Footnote. The writer supped off alligator steaks, and informs the reader that the meat is
by no means bad, and has a white appearance like veal.)

The river, as I have already said, ran along the base of Sea Range for some distance, when
it turned off across the plain in a south-east direction.

BANKS OF THE VICTORIA.

The high land quite overlooked the stream, and enhanced the picturesque effect of the trees
that rose in rich green masses on the banks, which were here only about half a mile apart.
The depth, however, was two fathoms, double what it had been for some distance before. We had
now fairly turned our backs on Sea Range, and were crossing the plains in a south-east direction.
On the part of the Victoria we had passed were a few white ducks, with black or very dark brown
wings. I noticed that the bill and legs were of a very pale pink, and they had a pale yellow
eye. They were evidently the same bird that I had seen at Port Essington.* They were scarce
and not met with in other parts of the river. Kangaroos were numerous on the banks, as we entered
the plain, and during the day were to be seen in numbers under the bushes near the water's
edge. I added one to our stock of fresh provisions, which with alligator steaks and ducks,
gave us a good supply to share with the other boats. We named this part of the river Long Reach,
from its carrying us nine miles in a direct course, with a general width of a quarter of a
mile, and a depth of two and three fathoms. The banks were well defined, in many places being
a low line of cliffs six feet high, presenting to our view several feet of brown soil, resting
on a compact clay. This is the general character of this extensive plain; and from the small
size of the trees, chiefly white gums, that are thinly scattered over it, we may infer that
it is land of recent formation. Two miles from the end of Long Reach, we passed a sandy head,
where the tide rises from three to ten feet.

(*Footnote. Figured by Mr. Gould, as Tadorna radjah.)

The river now took a south by west direction, for nearly two miles, a little narrower, but
three fathoms deep throughout. Towards the latter part the banks were fringed with mangroves
of a small and singularly even growth, resembling a clipped garden shrubbery. Our course again
changed to south-east, entering the low range of hills bounding the south-eastern side of Whirlwind
Plains. It was long after dark when we reached so far. We had passed the watering boats some
distance further down on their way to the ship. Our sudden meeting in the dark on the lonely
river, had a singular and romantic effect. Being anxious to join the gig, we pushed on, and
at midnight were surprised by a loud call from Captain Wickham, who lay beneath the shadow
of a high bank. It was a strange sound, this English hail, to hear echoed in these wild hills,
where only the shrill cry of the savage had been borne on the blast before!

THUNDERSTORM.

I was sorry to find, that the tide did not at present rise sufficient to admit the large boats
into the fresh water, so that getting a load would have been a very long operation, had it
not been for a tremendous fall of rain that followed a thunderstorm, deluging every pool, and
at once affording the means of filling the casks. This storm began at South-East and drew round
by east to North-West, from which quarter it blew strong for an hour. The torrents of rain
lasted two hours, and cooled the air so rapidly, as in that time to reduce the thermometer
from 92 to 82 degrees. This change was so sudden, that it made those who felt it shiver as
if it were the depth of winter, and RUSH INTO THE RIVER WATER TO KEEP THEMSELVES WARM.

November 4.

Both boats proceeded up the river at daylight. We started from the end of Short Reach, trending
East-North-East, and about four miles within the range of hills, on the South-East side of
the Plains. The first reach led us a mile and a half in a South-East direction, and at the
end of it a flat of large boulders extended; across this we dragged the boats easily. The river
now took a turn from East-North-East to North, and at the end of a mile we came to another
extensive flat, quite dry. There was a deep pool below it, with a precipitous hill, 350 feet
high, on the eastern side. This we called Steep Head, and its singular dark cliffy face, frowning
over the placid waters, gave an air of grandeur to the scenery. Stretched out on the face of
these cliffs, we left the skin of our friend the alligator, to be taken to the ship by the
watering boats when they returned.

SHOALS IN THE RIVER.

There was now heavy work before us, with the thermometer at 93 degrees in the shade: we had
to drag the boats over the large flat that impeded our progress. The way was made as smooth
as possible, and plenty of rollers laid, but an unlucky stone found its way through the thin
plank of the gig. Captain Wickham acted as head carpenter in repairing the damage, which occupied
so much time that it was dark before the boats were floated in the deep water beyond. We dined
on the bank, by the light of a lantern hung on a tree. The tide at this place only rose two feet.

SCENERY ON ITS BANKS.

November 5.

Taking advantage of the cool of the morning, we moved off with the early dawn. A fine sheet
of water lay before us, and everything promised well. The vegetation looked stronger and richer.
Above the growth of acacias and drooping gums, that leant over the banks kissing their reflection
in the limpid waters, rose on each side high broken ranges. Their heights had round summits,
just beneath which, in some, could be traced a low line of cliffs, so singularly characteristic
of Sea Range. The very marked dip in the strata did not extend beyond the latter, and here
I could not detect any. Flights of large vampires, whistling ducks, many-coloured parakeets,
and varieties of small birds, made the river quite alive, and their continued cry of alarm
gave vivacity to the scene, and disturbed the stillness that had reigned there for years. Every
living thing is terrified at the sight of man. This reach of the Victoria enabled Mr. Bynoe
to add two new birds to his collection; one, a species of pigeon, but resembling a small quail
in its habits and size; the cerae of the nose, the beak and the feet, were a pigeon's, but
the flight and the manner of running along the ground, where it kept, were those of a quail.
It was found in small families of eight or a dozen, very wild and scarce, and was only seen
in this part of the river. The only one we were able to get, had a very long pointed crest.
The colour was a light red, with a white chin and a black band across the throat; the tips
of the wings were slightly bronzed. It is figured in Mr. Gould's work, from this specimen,
as Geophaps plumifera.

SINGULAR BIRD.

The other bird was of a species, that at first sight appeared to be a teal. It went in small
flocks, and as it got on the wing made a long shrill plaintive kind of note. The deep glossy
rifle-green colour of their back, and the transparent streak of white across the wing, gave
them a most beautiful appearance, as the sun's rays lit up their rich plumage in their circuitous
flight round the boat. Their number did not exceed twenty, and they too were only seen on this
part of the river. They were also very wary, which is singular in the inhabitants of a wilderness,
almost totally unfrequented by man. We only got one specimen, by which we found that it had
the head and bill of a goose. It was indeed quite a goose in miniature. Although we never before
or afterwards met with this bird, it was seen at Port Essington, though of inferior plumage,
some time in 1840, and a specimen was obtained, from which Mr. Gould has named it Nettapus
pulchellas. The whistling duck of the Adelaide River, was also only seen on this part of the
Victoria.

After proceeding north-east one mile and a half, and east two miles, we came to a pretty little
islet covered with palms and acacias, and rich long grass. Numbers of large white waterlilies
grew on its banks. The river was now only an eighth of a mile wide, and two fathoms deep. This
still promised well. Scarcely, however, had we indulged in the hope that the Victoria might
yet convey the boats many miles into the interior, when a shoal appeared.

PROGRESS OF THE BOATS ARRESTED.

Over this we got tolerably well, but at the end of two miles in an East-South-East direction
from Palm Island, all hopes were at an end of proceeding farther in the boats, as for a great
extent the river was impassable for them. We found there was a large sheet of water beyond,
and then another dry patch. It would therefore have been useless labour to attempt dragging
the boats over any more of the dry parts. Two conical-shaped hills, so much alike that we called
them the Brothers, bore North by West 1/2 West one mile.

The thermometer was 101 degrees at noon in the shade. I shot some very large dark-coloured
ducks in the afternoon. Kangaroos were numerous. The water was fresh soon after passing Palm
Island.

That we were thus finally deterred from proceeding farther with the boats, was a source of
deep mortification. Since the great flat we had experienced so much difficulty in getting over
yesterday, all had gone well. Each turn in the river appeared more beautiful, and brought something
new to increase our interest; and we fondly imagined that great discoveries were in store for
us. But the fates had decreed otherwise, and we were compelled to pause, after having ascended
in the boats from the ship above 75 miles. We named this reach, in consequence, Reach Hopeless.

November 6.

It being evidently impracticable to proceed higher up in the boats; a small party of us landed
at daylight, in order to ascend a neighbouring height, and thence to trace as far as possible
the upward course of the river, preparatory to a pedestrian excursion along its banks. Before
sunrise we reached the summit of a narrow ridge, trending East-South-East 1/2 a mile east,
from where the boats were lying: in this singular ridge I again noticed the dip to the south-east:
it was composed of a variety of rocks, jasper, a greyish kind of flinty indifferent limestone,
and greywacke.

SINGULAR APPEARANCE OF THE RIVER.

The view from it was very limited, the valley of the river turning short to the northward,
two miles east by south of our position, to which we gave the name of Station Hill. Before
I had finished my round of angles, the heat had become so great that some of our party were
compelled to return to the boats, whilst myself, with two of the men, pushed on for nearly
two miles in an easterly direction, along the foot of some table-topped hills, and were then
gratified with another peep at the river, which had a very singular appearance, in some places
nearly dry, discovering a wide bed of large pebbles: long narrow islands, whose shape attested
the former rapidity of the currents, covered with reeds and acacias, and deep pools of standing
water, were its most characteristic features. Several kangaroos, alarmed by our approach, hastily
quitted their cool hidingplaces, presenting beautiful shots; but as the traces of natives were
both recent and numerous, we thought it most prudent to reserve our fire, and shortly after,
upon finding a native fire still alight, to keep the open ground as much as possible. We travelled
for a long mile over a level flat of good soil, though now quite destitute of vegetation, save
some beautiful specimens of the truly evergreen gumtree.

PROSPECT FROM VIEW HILL.

At length we reached the summit of View Hill, and no effervescing draught could have proved
more really refreshing than the south-east breeze which greeted us there. It is separated from
the ranges to the southward by a deep narrow valley. We noticed from it that the river evidently
increased in size, as traced upwards, and I was very glad to find that the delight I experienced
in making this discovery, was shared by my companions. We traced it east for two long miles--a
deep broad and picturesque stream: beyond that limit it took a more southerly direction, apparently
behind some high tableland (Table Hill) 200 feet high. Beyond, and on the eastern side of the
valley of the river, rose a high peak, crowned by a remarkable block of stone, to which we
gave the name of The Tower. I made a sketch of the scenery, and took a round of angles, and
then we returned to the boats. On our arrival we found the thermometer had been as high as
110 degrees at one P.M. The afternoon was occupied in selecting a party of five out of the
boats' crews, for a pedestrian excursion; and at night, jaded as we were, it was almost impossible
to sleep, owing to the screeching noise of the vampires, and the howling of the native dogs.

PREPARATIONS FOR A PEDESTRIAN EXCURSION.

November 7.

Making slings and packing provisions for an early start to-morrow morning occupied the greater
part of the day. Mr. Bynoe, as he had done yesterday, added to his valuable collection a few
rare birds, and strange plants; while I took several readings of the barometer, morning and
evening, for the elevation of the bed of the river: the mean gave a resulting height of thirty
feet.

Our bivouac at Reach Hopeless, was under the shade of a cluster of drooping gumtrees, which
secreted in their thick foliage, numbers of a bird figured by Mr. Gould as Tripidorhynchus
argenticeps. These kept up a constant amusing chatter, in which we could frequently detect
an exact imitation of the words Walk Up, when spoken sharply. A kangaroo Mr. Bynoe had shot,
and hung on a tree, drew the attention of birds of prey, consisting of two kinds of hawks,
one of a dark brown, almost black, and another a lighter shade of the same colour, resembling
copper, with a great deal of white about the head; so that we were surrounded with feathered
companions.

The wind as usual was East-North-East in the morning, and North-West in the evening. The thermometer
ranged from 97 to 112 degrees during the day, and fell to 90 degrees at night; during which
we noticed several meteors in the north and north-west falling perpendicularly.

November 8.

Our little band left the boats before daylight, the morning being agreeably cool (temperature
85 degrees). Captain Wickham had intended heading this most interesting expedition himself,
but feeling indisposed, the party was eventually placed under my command, and in addition to
myself, consisted of Mr. Bynoe, surgeon; Mr. Forsyth, mate; George Knox, Robert Gower, and
William Willing, seamen; John Brown, and Richard Martin, marines. Besides provisions for six
days, and arms, we had with us the following instruments: large sextant, small sextant, artificial
horizon, chronometer, two compasses, spyglass, watch, lantern, and measuring tape.

Our route was that of yesterday to View Hill, and we reached the river a mile to the eastward
by half-past seven A.M. We halted here for ten minutes to skin a kangaroo, which I had shot
as we crossed the plain; a piece of good fortune that induced me to determine upon leaving
a part of our provisions at the first convenient spot. We found the banks of the river thickly
clothed with tall reeds, through which with some difficulty we forced our way. To the north-west
the high land receded from the river, having an extensive, and apparently alluvial flat between
its base and the course of the stream.

After a brief halt, we proceeded in an East 16 degrees South direction. Two miles good walking
brought us to the head of a deep gully, the banks of which were covered with tall reeds; we
followed its course nearly due north to the river, which it joined near the foot of the high
land I have before spoken of. The bed of the stream was dry here in patches for half a mile.
As none of our party had been recently accustomed to much pedestrian exercise, and we had been
travelling for nearly five hours over a broken country, and in a temperature varying from 87
to 100 degrees in the shade, I thought it time to halt and dine. While dinner was being prepared,
Mr. Bynoe and myself shot three brace of rare ducks, of a small light grey kind, in the pools
near. I afterwards accompanied Mr. Forsyth to get some bearings from an elevation on the north
side of the river.

COURSE OF THE VICTORIA.

Towards the south-east we perceived a very decided break in the hills, through which I hoped
to trace the course of the Victoria, that being the direction of the centre of this vast continent:
in this however we were disappointed, for the river turned short round to the north-east. The
banks were so high, and so thickly covered with tall reeds, that it was only by the very green
appearance of the trees about its banks that its course could be made out. The temperature
at one P.M. in the sun was 127 degrees. Knowing how impossible it was to avoid being tracked
by the natives, should they wish it, even upon the hardest ground, and that in the event of
their doing so any buried stores would be forthwith discovered, and yet anxious to disencumber
the party of any superfluous load, I directed one of the men to take the 8-pound canister of
preserved meat and throw it into a thick cluster of reeds and palms, about thirty yards distant;
and after taking a set of sights for longitude, recommenced our journey to half-past three
P.M. in a north-east direction; passing through a lightly timbered plain, that had been evidently
at no distant date exposed to the ravages of fire. At half-past four we came to a bend of the
river, trending North 56 degrees East and South 22 degrees West. Passing several trees still
on fire near the river, after another short halt, which the state of the atmosphere no less
than the nature of the ground rendered desirable, we resumed our north-east course, but were
compelled to make a considerable westerly detour, in order to clear the deep watercourses intersecting
the banks at this place, and which, extending nearly to the base of the hills, rendered the
fatigues and labours of the march additionally and needlessly heavy.

NATIVE VILLAGE.

Just before dark we came upon a native village, near the foot of a bare rocky hill, having
a northern aspect, and lying about one mile south-west of the river. It contained thirteen
huts of paper-bark, standing in a bare stony plain, and with no signs of being at this time
inhabited. We found here considerable difficulty in forcing our way through the tall and thickly
growing reeds which lined the bank. The next reach in the river trended North-West for about
a mile, and then turned off North-North-East at the foot of a high rocky range. The next turn
in the course brought us upon a yet burning native fire. Under ordinary circumstances such
an indication of the near presence of natives, of whose intentions, whether hostile or otherwise,
I had no means of judging, would have induced me to take up open quarters for the night, which
was now closing in upon us; but the threatening aspect of the sky to the south-east led me
to prefer a spot sheltered by the luxuriant foliage which here fringed the river's banks.

VIOLENT SQUALL.

The squall reached us at seven. The wind, which had been at south-east, veering to north, and
the thermometer falling five degrees; it lasted for about an hour, during which time the harsh
screams of the affrighted birds--the moaning of the wind--the awful roll of thunder, and the
fearful brilliancy of the lightning, combined to supply all the terrible beauty which invests
such scenes; especially when they surprise the startled adventurer upon his unknown path, and
add their hostile influence to the unreckoned dangers that await his progress.

Within an hour the weather had cleared up, and was as fine as before the squall. The change
came just in time for me to secure a meridian altitude of Achernar, which, with a set of sights
for time, completed the requisite observations. We noticed a singular meteor in the East-South-East
about 8 o'clock this evening, darting perpendicularly UPWARDS: it lasted for ten seconds: between
the hour mentioned and midnight, we saw a great many, passing chiefly from south-east to north-west.
At nine, having set the watches for the night, we lay down to sleep, and passed a quiet night
with a temperature of 85 degrees, and a north-west wind.

November 9.

We started early the following morning, after having obtained a set of bearings, and followed
the bank of the river to the north-west for half a mile, then forded it and took a north-easterly
direction, passing close to the foot of some hills forming the south side of the valley of
the river, which at this place is scarcely a mile wide. High tableland formed the west side
of it, and low broken ranges trending east, bounded it in that direction.

MUSSEL BEND.

The bend above where we slept we called Mussel Bend, from our finding several there: they appeared
similar to those found by Oxley in the Macquarie. The country over which we travelled the first
part of the day was exceedingly stony, and wore a most uninviting appearance.

While the party halted to skin a kangaroo I had been so fortunate as to shoot; I ascended the
top of a neighbouring hill to make a sketch, and get some bearings. From this elevation I traced
the river in a north-west direction for three miles, and I gazed with rapture, only known to
the discoverer, upon a clear and magnificent expanse of water, yet greatly dismayed at its
northerly direction. To the north-east was an extensive and apparently alluvial flat; while
to the westward, the high land approached the river. It is worthy of remark, that so far as
our observation extended, wherever the hills approach the river on one side they recede from
it on the other.

DISCOVERED BY NATIVES.

Continuing in a more easterly direction in order to avoid the deep watercourses near the banks,
we found the country wore a much less arid appearance, and changing our direction to North-North-West
in order to ascend some high ranges distant two miles and a half, overlooking the east bank
of the river, we came suddenly upon some native tracks, and presently surprised two children,
who scampered down the bank in very natural alarm, and were soon lost among the tall reeds.
A little further on we passed within 200 yards of three women carrying bundles of bark at their
backs; their anxiety for their children had allowed us to approach thus close unseen; but no
sooner were we discovered, than they raised a shout which was answered from the heights on
our right, and from the banks of the river on our left, by parties evidently too numerous to
render it prudent to attempt a nearer meeting. We therefore held on our way without appearing
to notice them. They were quite naked, with the exception of a slight covering of bark round
their waists. We halted at half-past ten A.M. in an open spot in the dry bed of the river,
overlooked by a high table hill. Our party looked very much distressed from their half-day's
work. The weather had been very close, and a good deal of the walking over broken ground; and
these circumstances, coupled with the fact that the thermometer stood at 107 degrees in the
shade, and that all had been for a long time cooped up in a small vessel, will fully explain
and account for the general fatigue.

SUCCESSFUL FISHING.

In a pool of the river near our resting place, I caught, within an hour, some dozen good-sized
fish: using a bait of kangaroo flesh. There were two sorts, one of the shape of a trout, and
ten inches long; it had a dirty orange-yellow belly, and a muddy bronze back; the lower hole
of the nose had a raised margin. The other measured seven inches, and resembled in shape a
small fish at home, known to all schoolboys as the prickle-back; it was curiously marked, having
five spots nearly black on each side, near the ridge of the back; the ground around them was
a dark glossy brown; the belly was a slightly shining white, reaching as far up as the lower
line of the eye and the margin of the spots.

While Mr. Bynoe was occupied in making sketches of them, which have been transmitted to Dr.
Richardson, Mr. Forsyth and myself ascended a neighbouring hillock, and traced the river in
a westerly direction for two miles; it then turned round to North-North-East: a deep narrow
valley separated it from the higher land to the eastward. The bed of the river at this place,
though partly dry, was wider than we had hitherto seen it, and the trees upon its banks still
showed evident signs of being washed by a mountain torrent. After making a set of observations
for longitude, we started again at 3 o'clock P.M. taking a north-west direction over a flat
of tolerably fine light mould. Near here a party of natives crossed the river, in the direction
of those we had first seen: perhaps to effect a junction of forces and demand the meaning of
our strange intrusion. We took an East 1/2 North direction across the flat, but finding the
ground very broken and stony, intersected by deep watercourses, and rendered additionally impracticable
by high grass and thick reeds, we were compelled, after getting half across, to make the best
of our way to the river.

FATIGUE OF THE PARTY.

It was intensely hot, not a breath of air stirring, and to add to our misfortunes, we had inadvertently
dined off the contents of a canister of salt meat. We reached the river at half-past five,
being all of us pretty well knocked up with heat, fatigue, and thirst: one of our party, I
heard afterwards, drank nearly TWO QUARTS of water at a draught.

Further on in this reach, I determined to occupy quarters for the night; it was wide and deep,
trending East by South, but shut in about a mile above our present position by a dry patch
of stones, with clear banks on either side. As we were now in what appeared to be a rather
thickly populated district of the country, it was requisite to choose a position beyond the
reach of sudden attack. Having consulted our security as much as possible in this particular,
I took, before dark, the necessary bearings and angles for the survey, and was delighted to
observe that the valley of the river again trended away to the southward. We had a cool breeze
after dark from the north-west, and the thermometer went down to 90 degrees. I had scarcely
secured observations for latitude and longitude, before a squall from the south-east, accompanied
by heavy rain, recalled the scene of last night.

CHARM OF DISCOVERY.

The same screams from the same kind of birds, disturbed in their roosting places, and the same
mournful howling of the wind, as it swept fitfully through the trees that overshadowed us,
broke the silence that had reigned around our solitary fire, and exercised their wondrous power
over the imagination. In a few moments my thoughts were borne on to the very heart of this
mysterious country, over many a dreary plain, where thirst, fatigue, and hunger were all forgotten.
It is impossible to define the exact nature of the charm which particular minds find in the
perils and adventures of discovery, whether on the shore or over the wave. Certain, however,
it is, that scarce any motive of human exertion can compete with it in the powers of endurance
it supplies to its votaries.

The squall served to clear the air, and was succeeded by a cool breeze from the north-west.
The thermometer down to 87 degrees.

THIRSTY FLAT.

Yet cool, as comparatively speaking, the nights are here, still I could not but remark that
the ground never became so; and this I imagine to be one of the principal causes of that fatigue
from which some of our party suffered so much: during my watches I invariably noticed some
poor fellow or another vainly trying to secure the rest of which he stood so much in need:
rolling with restless anxiety from side to side, and sometimes in absolute despair, starting
up on his feet: neither could I fail to note the wearying effect these broken slumbers produced,
symptoms of which showed themselves more plainly each morning.

Having provided myself with the means of calculating the latitude, I worked the observations
I had taken during the night. It placed the spot of our bivouac in 15 degrees 29 minutes South.
We estimated our distance from the boats, having carefully timed ourselves each march, at 23
miles; 10 in an east, general direction, and 13 North-East by North.

November 10.

We pushed onwards in the cool of the morning, taking a South 20 degrees West direction, for
three miles, crossing the eastern part of the flat to which we yesterday gave the name of Thirsty
Flat, and found the soil a light mould, covered with long dry grass. This brought us to a bend
in the river, trending in rather a tortuous manner east, and passing through a wide valley,
with table ranges, varying from 5 to 600 feet on either side. Towards their summits there were
perpendicular cliffs of some 30 or 40 feet, similar to the high land of Sea Range. The country
just here was so thickly wooded that I was obliged to climb a tree in order to get the bearings.
We noticed some very curious black horizontal streaks on the hills in our immediate vicinity.
We crossed the river, or rather over its bed--a patch of stones--and found some shells of the
water-tortoise at the remains of a native fire on the bank: we named the reach Tortoise Reach,
in consequence. Here too Mr. Bynoe added some rare and beautiful specimens of finches to his
collection.

ENERVATING EFFECT OF THE GREAT HEAT.

The cool north-west wind had now deserted us, and though yet scarcely nine o'clock A.M. the
thermometer stood at 105 degrees. I had again the good fortune to shoot a kangaroo: it was
a long cross-shot, the animal going at speed. Our route now lay across a barren stony plain,
of which the vegetation it might once have boasted had been burnt off: the blackened ground,
heated by the fierce rays of the sun, seemed still to us on fire. In crossing a creek which
lay in our path, and which we managed to do by means of a fallen tree, Mr. Forsyth showed symptoms
of being struck with the sun, but a little water, which I was happy enough to get from the
creek, revived him. Several others of the party also complained of the trying effects of the
great heat; after a short rest, I therefore determined on making for the river, which we arrived
at in half an hour, near a bed of dry rocks, but with the reaches on either side wide and deep,
and shut in by steep banks. By this time one of the men was seriously indisposed; all hopes,
therefore, of proceeding much further upon this most interesting expedition I was compelled,
though very reluctantly, to abandon. This was still the more a subject of deep regret, because
the present width, and the south-easterly direction which the river now appeared to take, gave
me just hopes that great progress might be made in the desired direction in the course of another
day: while I felt satisfied that we were abandoning the course of a river whose undiminished
magnitude made each mile's journey along its banks of increased interest, and which I felt
convinced would, if followed out, conduct us far towards the heart of this terra incognita.

The weather continued calm and close; temperature at noon, in the shade 110 degrees. I noticed
a difference in the bed of the river at the place where we prepared dinner: hitherto the dry
spots, which from time to time we passed over, or halted upon, were strewn about with large
boulders; here, however, we were encamping near a very remarkable rocky ledge, dipping to the
south-east, and of the same character as the rocks on the sea coast, when seen at low-water.

APPROACH OF NATIVES.

Scarcely had we disposed of our invalid as comfortably as circumstances would admit, under
a bank overshadowed by acacias and gumtrees, when we heard the shrill voices of an evidently
large body of natives, concealed by the foliage on the opposite bank of the river, which was
just here quite dry, and not more than eighty yards across.

PREPARATIONS FOR DEFENCE.

As I had no means of knowing either their number or intentions, it was necessary to make the
best preparations that time and place would allow for defence, should it unhappily become necessary:
a contingency which, in the debilitated condition of all the party, now too deprived altogether
of the aid of one of its members, I could not contemplate without some anxiety. I directed
the men to occupy such situations in the long grass as would give the most deceptive appearance
to our numbers, and stationed Mr. Bynoe, Mr. Forsyth, and myself where, if required, we could
act most effectually. These preparations were hardly complete, when two natives, accompanied
by a large cream-coloured dog that howled mournfully, came down suddenly, shouting "Ho! ho!"
upon the opposite bank, as though more clearly to reconnoitre our position. They were fine
looking men, with bushy hair and spare limbs, quite naked, and apparently unarmed--a usual
indication among the aborigines of Australia that their intentions are peaceful. They amused
themselves for a time by making all sorts of gestures, shouting still "ho! ho!" to those of
their body in concealment, from whom they had probably been detached for observation. What
they thought of us, strange intruders as we must have appeared to them, it is not possible
fully even to imagine; at any rate they seemed impressed with some sort of respect either for
our appearance, jaded as we were, or our position, and forbore any nearer approach. I was of
course very glad that no appeal to force was necessary: in the first place I should very reluctantly
have resorted to it against those to whom we appeared in the character of invaders of a peaceful
country, and in the second, had one of our party been wounded, the consequent delay would have
rendered our return to the boats certainly a work of great difficulty, perhaps wholly impossible;
for no considerations of expediency would in my mind have justified the abandonment of a defenceless
comrade, wounded in the common cause, either to the natural dangers and privations of the country,
or the barbarous revenge of its inhabitants. They continued in force, upon the opposite bank,
for some time, and then gradually withdrew. I may remark that the condition and appearance
of the two who made themselves visible, indicated their residence in a country fitted to supply
abundantly all natural wants. I should also state that I could not perceive that extraordinary
exaggeration of a certain Jewish ceremony, that prevailed in one part of King Sound.

APPEARANCE OF THE NATIVES.

It is to be regretted that our position would not allow us to seek the acquaintance of these
people. I could not help comparing the bold, fearless manner in which they came towards us--their
fine manly bearing, head erect, no crouching or quailing of eye--with the miserable objects
I had seen at Sydney. I now beheld man in his wild state; and, reader, rest assured there is
nothing can equal such a sight. Before me stood two of the aboriginal inhabitants of Australia
who had never, until then, encountered the hitherto blighting look of a European.

After a long rest, we were enabled to move on again slowly in the cool of the evening, along
the south bank of the river, followed by one of the native dogs, that differed only from those
I had seen on other parts of the coast, in being rather larger.

EMU PLAINS.

Two miles further brought us into a fine open plain, over which two emus were going best pace;
we therefore named it in their honour: while the valley to the southward was christened after
the Beagle, and the ranges on either side bore the names of her former and present commander:
those to the north-east and south-west were called, after the officers who accompanied me,
Forsyth and Bynoe Ranges. The soil on Emu Plains was far superior to any we had seen since
leaving the boat, and was lightly and picturesquely timbered with the white gum. We were very
cautious in choosing our sleeping berth for the night, to avoid a surprise during the dark;
we therefore selected a friendly hollow beneath the stem of a straggling and drooping old gumtree,
large enough to conceal the whole party, near the centre of a great patch of pebbles, with
the river, on one side, within a hundred yards of us, and on the other, distant about three
hundred.

Those who are practically conversant with such positions as this, will readily call to mind
what a safeguard from any nightly approach was afforded by the loose pebbles that surrounded
us, upon which not even the unshod foot of a native could fall without so much of accompanying
noise as would serve to put the watch with his ear to the ground upon the qui vive: this was
proved to be the case during the night, when we distinctly heard the footsteps of the prowling
savages. We had no squall, and except this interruption, the howling of native dogs, and the
shrill peculiar whistle of a flock of vampires constantly flying backwards and forwards over
our heads, we slept in peace in our comfortable little retreat.

UPWARD COURSE OF THE VICTORIA.

Our last regretful view of this part of the Victoria--for every member of our little band seemed
to feel an equal interest in the subject--was taken from a position in latitude 15 degrees
36 minutes and longitude 130 degrees 52 minutes East; 140 miles distant from the sea: but still
500 miles from the centre of Australia. Its apparent direction continued most invitingly from
the southward--the very line to the heart of this vast land, whose unknown interior has afforded
so much scope for ingenious speculation, and which at one time I had hoped, that it was reserved
for us to do yet more in reducing to certainty. And though from the point upon which I stood
to pay it my last lingering farewell, the nearest reach of water was itself invisible, yet
far, far away I could perceive the green and glistening valleys through which it wandered,
or rather amid which it slept; and the refreshing verdure of which assured me, just as convincingly
as actual observation could have done, of the constant presence of a large body of water; and
left an indelible impression upon my mind, which subsequent consideration has only served to
deepen, that the Victoria will afford a certain pathway far into the centre of that country,
of which it is one of the largest known rivers.

When I had at length most reluctantly made up my mind that all further progress along the banks
of the Victoria must be abandoned, I left the spot of our temporary encampment, and proceeded
alone a short distance in the direction of the interior; as though partly to atone, by that
single and solitary walk towards the object of my eager speculation, for the grievous disappointment
I experienced at being compelled to return. It was something, even by this short distance,
to precede my companions in the exciting work of discovery--to tread alone the solitary glades
upon which, till now, no native of the civilized West had set his foot--and to muse in solemn
and unbroken silence upon the ultimate results of the work to which the last few days had been
devoted--to mark the gradual but certain progression of civilization and christianity--and
to breathe forth, unwitnessed and uninterrupted, the scarce coherent words of thankful adoration
for the providential care which had hitherto sustained and directed us.

RETURN HOMEWARDS.

November 12.

I found our invalid so much recovered to-day, that I determined on making a short march homewards
in the cool of the early morning. We reached Tortoise Reach by 8 o'clock A.M. where we passed
the day. During our morning's walk I again had the luck to knock over a kangaroo. It was a
female, and had a very young one in its pouch. It is worthy of remark that most of those I
killed were does, with young ones of different ages, which afforded Mr. Bynoe the means of
making some interesting observations on the manner in which they are brought forth, which will
be found further on in the part of the work relating to Houtman's Abrolhos, where more opportunities
occurred of arriving at a satisfactory result. Mr. Bynoe added here to his collection of birds,
to which also, I was so fortunate as to be able to contribute a beautiful specimen of a rifle-green
glossy ibis, common in Europe. I tried the water with a very roughly manufactured fly: the
fish rose repeatedly at it, though there was scarcely a ripple, and notwithstanding my own
want of success under these unpropitious circumstances, I feel perfectly satisfied that with
proper tackle, and on a favourable day, this prince of sports might be enjoyed on the Victoria.

WICKHAM HEIGHTS.

I availed myself of the opportunity of our halt at this place to wash my only suit, piece by
piece, and afterwards made a sketch of the north-eastern part of Wickham Heights from the dry
flat in the reach. The woodcut annexed will convey at once to the reader, those singular features
in the hills--the low line of cliffs resembling fortifications near their summit, and, still
more remarkable, the horizontal black streaks near their base.

NEW TORTOISE.

We here found the back-shell of one of the largest of the water-tortoises, from which the reach
was named. It measured ten inches, was very narrow at the fore part, where the continuous line
of the margin was broken by an arch where the head protrudes, and was much expanded posteriorly.
It resembled greatly the Chelidona oblonga, inhabiting Western Australia, with the exception
of the arch and its more oval shape; and as in that kind, the last vertebral plate was divided
by a suture. A shell of a Victoria River tortoise has been deposited in the British Museum.
We here noticed many varieties of turbinated shells, and among them a small buccinum; beside
mussels. At a native fireplace I saw heaps of the latter, as well as the bones of young alligators;
portions of the jaws with teeth were picked up.

The temperature during the day ranged from 90 to 105 degrees in the shade. A light breeze from
north-west in the evening succeeded a long calm. Before sunset I got a peep at the eastern
side of a valley, before noticed, in the direction of our route back, and felt convinced that
by crossing it we should avoid Thirsty Flat, and shorten the route to the boats.

LUCKY VALLEY.

November 13.

Our walk this morning fully realized all my expectations of the preceding evening, for by 8
o'clock A.M. we reached the dining place of the second day. To record the satisfaction we felt
in escaping a second journey over Thirsty Flat, by following the valley we had seen yesterday
evening, we named it Lucky Valley. After a brief halt, we pushed on, and by eleven, were at
our old quarters in Mussel Bend. We heard the voices of natives in all directions, far and
near, and as I found the party still astonishingly fresh, and eager to proceed, I thought it
best to keep going. We therefore continued our journey, and just before dark reached the spot
where we had dined the first day. Here, however, the cheerful excitement of our pleasant and
shady walk through Lucky Valley having gone off, the men felt the effects of their long day's
march, and were all more or less knocked up.

RACE WITH A NATIVE.

Near the river, as we were approaching our intended bivouac, we came upon a native walking
leisurely across the plain, and so intently occupied in poising and straightening his spear,
and fixing it in the throwing stick, that he allowed me, being in advance of the rest, to get
within sixty yards of him: I then loudly hailed him. He cast one look of utter and indescribable
astonishment at the strange being who thus interrupted his pathway over his native soil, and
was off at the top of his speed. Little anticipating that I should soon have to test in earnest
the fleetness of these people, I tried rates with him for a short distance, and remarked, with
surprise, that he had not that superiority of speed which might have been expected. Perhaps
fright deprived him of his full powers, for what must have been his sensations on finding himself
almost cut off by a party of beings whose very existence was till then unknown to him? I have
since half regretted that I did not see how much nearer I could have approached without discovery,
but at the time I did not wish to frighten him too far. To have got so near as I did will seem
almost incredible to those who recollect the wary character, and the peculiarly restless and
vigilant eye of the savage: some strong emotion of love or hate had for the time perhaps rendered
him quite unconscious of all surrounding objects!

We came on the river over a steep bank covered with high reeds, and as a party of natives were
distinctly audible below, myself, Mr. Forsyth, and Mr. Bynoe led the way. The natives crossed
immediately, and were visible for a few moments through the foliage on the other side: however,
they appeared but to wait in order to verify the astonishing report just brought in by their
breathless countryman; for as the foremost of our party emerged from the tall reeds, our opposite
neighbours slowly drew off, and were soon hid in the dense obscurity their position afforded.
They had evidently examined our old fireplace very minutely, but the precaution taken to preserve
the meat canister had luckily been successful.

QUARTERS FOR THE NIGHT.

I selected the quarters for the night not without some anxiety, for the natives were evidently
in force in our immediate neighbourhood, and their shrill cries kept us all awake, though the
day's march had been an arduous one. We had made good upwards of twenty miles: the ground,
except in Lucky Valley, was of a most trying character: the thermometer at noon 102 degrees,
and with nearly 150 pounds weight among seven of us, for the sick hand was of course relieved
as far as possible. I got the requisite observation for latitude during the night; and since
necessity is ever the mother of invention, read off my sextant by a torch made for the occasion
from pieces of paperbark. It will easily be believed, that I did not needlessly prolong the
work; for the light of the torch rendered me a prominent mark for any prowling savage to hurl
his spear at: however, His Eye, to whom the darkness and the light are both alike, watched
over our safety, and we spent the night in security if not in silence.

November 14.

The morning broke, and we found ourselves apparently alone in the solitudes of the forest:
no sound or sign indicated the presence of its more rightful proprietors. Did the savage so
soon prepare to yield to the advancing movement of that hitherto fatal civilization before
which his name, his race, nay, all traces of his rude existence may ere long pass into oblivion?
or did the gathering of the night, and the apparent peaceful aspect of the morn, denote that
one gallant struggle would be made ere a strange shout of triumph woke the silent echoes with
the glorious name with which we had dignified our new discovery, and which throughout the world
sounds as the appropriate title of the fair sovereign of its mightiest people?

RETURN TO REACH HOPELESS.

A rapid walk brought us to our old bivouac by ten o'clock, without anything of particular interest
having occurred upon the route. We found only one boat at Reach Hopeless, Captain Wickham having
gone down the river with the others in order to hasten the watering party. In another chapter
will be found some more detailed remarks upon the peculiar and distinctive character of the
Victoria; they will not be uninteresting to the reader who feels any of that curiosity which
is in part an incitement to the discoverer.

We learnt from the party at the boat that a large body of the natives had been down watching
their movements, and apparently intending if possible to surprise them. Though they had approached
very near, they would not have been seen but for a shooting party, which got a view of them
from an overlooking height, crawling along the ground with evident caution. They were probably
the same party we had encountered higher up, and had traced our trail backwards, in order to
see whence, and in what force we had entered their territory. Little did they imagine, as they
gazed upon our small party and its solitary boat, that they had seen the harbingers of an approaching
revolution in the fortunes of their country!

REUNION OF THE BOATS.

November 13.

The day was devoted to fixing the position of several of the surrounding hills; and in the
afternoon we obtained observations for rating the chronometers: I found that one by French,
which I had worn in my pocket, had gone most admirably. Captain Wickham joined us in the gig
after dark. The evening was cloudy, and we had a sharp squall at midnight from south-east.

November 14.

Both boats were moved off down the river at daylight, and ere it had passed away, the ford
above Steep Head was left behind. We found that the watering boats had not got over the shallow
below, so that we spent the night together; and a merry party we made. We talked over all we
had seen, and the hills that rose around echoed back for the first time the laugh and the song
of civilized man, and our strange language was repeated as glibly by the rocks of Australia
as if they were those of our own native land. So true is it that nature is ever ready to commune
familiarly with us, whereas by our very brethren we are looked upon as enemies to shun, and
are incapable of making ourselves understood by them.

A DESERTER.

When the morning of the 15th broke it was discovered that one of the men belonging to the watering
party had deserted during the night. He had been guilty of this offence once before, in order
to steal the spirits which had been buried for the use of my exploring party. What however
could have induced him to take this step a second time--risking, without any apparent motive,
the danger of being left on a strange, and almost uninhabited coast, it would be difficult
even to suggest. Parties were immediately despatched in quest of him, and at length, after
an arduous search, he was found behind a large sandstone rock on the side of a hill; having
revisited the spot where the provisions had been concealed for the use of my party, in the
hope of obtaining possession of his god the rum-keg. He had evidently prepared for desertion:
clothing, biscuit, and fishing-tackle being among the stores with which he had made off. This
despicable wretch--for such must everyone consider the man who would steal his shipmates' provisions,
when each had only his bare allowance--had nothing to say, either in extenuation or explanation
of his conduct. Most fortunate for him was it that our humane exertions to discover his retreat
were successful; he could not long have subsisted by himself, and even had he been so happy
as to fall in with, and receive hospitable welcome from the natives, he must of necessity have
lingered out a life of toilsome, cheerless hardship while a companion of their wanderings,
and when unfitted for this by old age, he would, according to the custom of the country, have
been left to die, unfriended and alone, upon the spot where his last weary efforts failed.
The delay occasioned by this extraordinary and unlooked-for event, made it late by the time
all the boats were fairly on their way down the river. The wind was light from the north-east,
and the temperature about 90 degrees, at 9 o'clock.

NEW KANGAROO.

I pushed on to gain a station at the commencement of the hills on the eastern side of Whirlwind
Plains, and also, if possible, to shoot a kangaroo to send to the ship:* I was so fortunate
as to secure two; one of a new species, very small, and of a dark brown colour, with coarse
hair, I found in rocky land, which it appears solely to inhabit, as it was also found near
the ship. As, however, like the generality of kangaroos, this species only move of their own
accord in the night time, they are rarely seen, and but one good specimen was obtained by Lieutenant
Emery, who brought it to England, and submitted it to Mr. Gould, who has described it as Petrogale
concinna. It is now in the British Museum.

(*Footnote. I had now become quite an adept in this kind of sport. My plan was to direct a
man to walk along near the river, where they are generally found, whilst I kept considerably
above him and a little in advance, so that all those that were started running up from the
bank in the curved direction, habitual with all kangaroos, passed within shot.)

The height we visited was of coarse sandstone formation, and attained an elevation of 150 feet.
As I was left to examine some parts of the river which had been passed in the night, I had
a further opportunity of determining the value, and estimating the fertility of Whirlwind Plains.
My examination only confirmed my previous conjectures in favour of the capabilities of the
soil. From what I had seen at Port Essington, as ground considered favourable for the growth
of cotton, there can be no doubt that on these plains it would thrive much better; but the
soil on the Victoria is of too fertile a character to bear any comparison with that of Cobourg
Peninsula.

SILK COTTON-TREE.

At Reach Hopeless, and at other points of the important stream I am describing we observed
numerous specimens of a kind of silk cotton-tree (Bombax): the diameter was sometimes as great
as twenty inches; and it not unfrequently rose to the height of twenty or thirty feet, though
generally shorter. The pods were of an oval shape, and about two inches and a half in length;
each pod was in three divisions and full of a silky cotton, with the seeds not imbedded but
held at the extremity of the fibres. I brought home a specimen and presented it to Sir William
Hooker, of the Royal Botanical Gardens at Kew, with whom I have since had some correspondence
on the subject. He informs me that the plant is one hitherto undescribed; but that Sir Joseph
Banks met with it in Captain Cook's voyage.

November 17.

We continued our descent of the river: stopping from time to time to complete the survey. In
the end of Long Reach we noticed that the stream ran up two hours after high-water. After securing
some observations for latitude under Station Peak in the early part of the night, we proceeded
further down the river, delighted to escape from that mosquito-haunted neighbourhood.

EFFECTS OF DRINKING SALT-WATER.

November 18.

At day-break I was very much distressed and astonished to see one of the men on a sudden start
up under the influence of delirium, and attempt to throw himself into the water, from which
the combined strength of three or four of the crew with difficulty restrained him. He was one
of the best men I had with me; his sudden and serious illness had doubtless been produced by
the draughts of saltwater which he had swallowed during the night. He had been accustomed to
indulge in very liberal potations while we were up the river, and now, when from necessity
the allowance was restricted to a gallon per day, he had most foolishly attempted in the dark
to quench his thirst with the salt waters of the advancing tide. In the afternoon we rejoined
the ship, and he was placed under the care of Mr. Bynoe; but it was some time before he fully
recovered from the effects of his rash experiment. The day was very oppressive, the thermometer
being 105 degrees in the shade, and there was no wind. We were cordially greeted by our shipmates
upon our return, and both Mr. Forsyth and myself enjoyed the luxury of a night's rest in our
hammocks; a most agreeable change after the hot stones upon which we had generally been compelled
to court repose during our exploration. We had both suffered much inconvenience from the attacks
of flies upon our visual organs, necessarily exposed and undefended as they had been when we
were occupied during the observations and in viewing the strange scenes of the last eighteen
days. The irritation upon the lids produced a copious discharge, which fairly sealed them up
at night; so that, at last, in order to have them ready for immediate use, I found it requisite
to sleep with a wet linen cloth covering each eye.

We heard with great satisfaction that Lieutenant Emery's search for water had been completely
successful, and that two large wells had been dug in the valley, abreast of which the ship
was anchored. During our absence the barometer had ranged between 30.08 and 29.97; the minimum
height being always at noon. There had been several sharp squalls from the eastward, beginning
at south-east and ending at north-east, with a few showers of rain. North-west, or seabreezes,
were regular near the changes of the moon, and of greater duration. No meteors were observed
since the 16th, but between the 7th and 11th they were very numerous.

GEOLOGICAL SPECIMENS.

November 20.

I went ashore to collect a few geological specimens: the sandstone which prevailed everywhere
was in a decomposed state, but there was a very decided dip in the strata to the south-east,
of about 30 degrees. On the east side of Water Valley, I found the same kind of slate, noticed
before at Curiosity Peak: but what most interested me was a bituminous substance found near
the bottom of the wells recently dug, and 23 feet from the surface of the ground. It was apparently
of a clayey nature when first brought up, but became hard and dark upon exposure to the air,
and ignited quickly when put into the flame of a candle. The sides of Water Valley were very
precipitous, and nearly 300 feet high: a growth of palms marked the spot, and served to indicate
our wells. We here saw also the same fruit I had noticed on Curiosity Peak.

BIRD'S PLAYHOUSE.

I found matter for conjecture in noticing a number of twigs with their ends stuck into the
ground, which was strewed over with shells, and their tops brought together so as to form a
small bower; this was 2 1/2 feet long, 1 1/2 foot wide at either end.

(*Footnote. Figured in Mr. Gould's work as Chlamydera nuchalis.)

November 22.

The moon being full to-day we noticed that the tides were very strong: particularly the flood-stream,
which came in bores, and sometimes swept by the ship at the rate of 6 1/2 knots, while the
ebb did not exceed 4 1/2: the greatest rise also to-day was 24 feet.

SINGULAR CHANGE OF WINDS.

November 25.

My journal of this day begins with remarking a very extraordinary change that took place in
the winds. Instead of the usual fresh North-West breeze after ten A.M., there was a moderate
one from East-South-East. This drew round gradually by east to north. At sunset the weather
was very gloomy; but the barometer indicated nothing, ranging as usual. In the early part of
the night the wind was light from North-North-West, changing suddenly at midnight to a fresh
breeze from South-East with rain. When the morning broke, it had veered to East-South-East
with squalls from East-North-East and heavy rain. Dense masses of clouds covered the sky, enveloping
everything in gloom; which, though so far agreeable as to reduce the temperature to 75 degrees,
had a most singular effect after the constant bright sunny days we had experienced. There was
still no unusual change in the barometer, the maximum being 30.06, and the minimum 29.98 at
two P.M. The night was squally without rain.

HURRICANE AT PORT ESSINGTON.

November 27.

The day broke with an appearance of fine weather; patches of blue sky peeped between the heavy
masses of clouds, and expanding as the day advanced, left us at sunset with a cloudless vault
of blue overhead. The barometer was lower throughout the whole of this day than it had been
at all, being at two P.M. 29.91. When this strange weather first began I was disposed to consider
it to be of the same character as that which I had before observed to occur within a few days
of the change of the moon. But its duration and occasional violence led me to think otherwise,
and I afterwards found my conclusions to be correct; as at this very time a hurricane visited
Port Essington, distant 270 miles, in a North 30 degrees East direction.*

(*Footnote. The following account of the effects of this hurricane at Port Essington is from
the pen of Captain Stanley, and has been published in the Nautical Magazine for September 1841.

Monday 25th.

A strong breeze set in from the south-east with drizzling rain, but as the barometer remained
at 29.90, its usual point, and similar weather had been experienced at the change of the monsoon
in 1838, nothing was apprehended, more particularly as the wind moderated (as had been expected)
at sunset. Between seven and eight o'clock the wind drew round to the southward, and the barometer
began to fall rapidly: at ten it blew furiously from the same quarter, and the barometer was
as low as 29.10; many of the trees were blown down at this time. At midnight the wind drew
round to the eastward, and blew a perfect hurricane, before which nearly everything gave way;
the trees came down in every part of the settlement; the marines' houses were all blown down;
the church, only finished a week, shared the same fate: the barometer fell to 28.52.

About two A.M. the wind shifted suddenly to the northward, from which point for about half-an-hour,
its fury was tremendous; the government-house, built on stone piers, was blown away from them
to a distance of nine feet; the sea rose ten feet and a half, by measurement afterwards, above
the usual high-water mark. H.M.S. Pelorus, having parted her cables, was driven on shore, and
thrown over on her beam ends, on the north-east point of the settlement, where heeling over
82 degrees, her starboard side was buried nine feet in the mud, leaving the keel three feet
clear of the ground.**

At daylight the barometer rose slowly to 29.90, the gale moderated, and the sea went down so
fast, that between seven and eight we were able to send a boat to the assistance of the Pelorus:
after eight the breeze continued to blow strong from the northward for two days, with heavy rain.

The occurrence of such a hurricane must be very rare, as the natives were as much astonished
as ourselves, and came to beg for shelter: they have no name for it, and no tradition of anything
of the sort having happened before: the state in which the very extensive fences at Raffles
Bay were in shortly before, must prove that the trees had never been blown down in the way
they were on the 25th of November, since that settlement was abandoned in 1829.

The extent of the hurricane must have been very limited: at Coepang a strong gale from the
south-west was experienced, and also between Java and Timor on the 26th, but the wind did not
change. Even 18 miles north, at Vashon Head, the change of wind must have been greater though
equal in force. There the first trees fell with the wind from West-South-West; a few fell when
the wind was east, and most when the wind was north-west. The Malays have an idea that every
fifth year the monsoon is stronger than usual, but can give no reason for thinking so. According
to them this monsoon ought to have been a strong one.

(**Footnote. The Pelorus was dug out of the mud, and once more got afloat towards the middle
of February following. This immense undertaking was accomplished by the indefatigable exertion
and mechanical skill of her commander, Captain Kuper, C.B., assisted by Captain Stanley. J.L.S.))

COURSE OF THE STORM.

The bad weather in the Victoria then would appear to have been caused by the proximity of the
southern edge of this storm as it passed to the westward. The fact of the time when the weather
was the worst, having been the same at Port Essington, and in the Victoria; and of the French
discovery ships meeting it in Torres Strait first, shows the westerly course of the storm.
Its northern edge did not reach Coepang, but a strong gale from the south-west on the 26th
showed that it was passing. Most probably it took a more southerly course before reaching Timor.*

(*Footnote. We were informed at Timor that hurricanes were never felt there, but occur once
in four or five years to the southward of it. It may be added that a vessel lost her top-masts
in the Port Essington hurricane, near Sandalwood Island, and that to the southward of Java
hurricanes occur frequently.)

I passed the night on shore, making observations for latitude, and in the hope also of being
able to obtain another specimen of the new small kangaroo, that being the time when it is generally
to be found on the move. But I did not succeed in this object; and failed also in my expectation
of knocking over one of a large kind seen in the interior. I left the observation spot for
this purpose with the first grey of the morn, taking an East-North-East direction for about
four miles.

DREARY COUNTRY.

The country was most dreary; vast ranges strewn over with huge blocks of sandstone, rose in
desolate grandeur around; chasms, ravines, and thirsty stony valleys yawned on every side;
all was broken, rugged, and arid, as if the curse of sterility had fallen on the land; in short,
the contrast was complete between this desert place and the country we had so lately traversed
up the river. I was able, accordingly, to procure nothing in the shape of a fresh meal, save
a few black cockatoos and some of the pigeons of a dark brown colour, with a white patch on
the extremity of the wing, which I have alluded to in the earlier part of the work relating
to King's Sound, as always inhabiting rocky districts and making a whirring sound, like a partridge,
on the wing.

LOSE TWO ANCHORS.

November 29.

This afternoon and the whole of the next day, when the tide suited, we were endeavouring to
weigh the ship's anchors; but they were together with the cables so imbedded in the bottom,
which must have been a quicksand, that this proved impossible. Had the ship been fitted with
Captain Charles Phillips', R.N., capstan, there would have been a better chance of succeeding.
As it was, after heaving down the ship nineteen inches by the head, and splitting the hawse
pipes, we were ultimately obliged to leave both behind, and thirty fathoms of cable with one
and fifteen with the other. This circumstance suggested the appropriate name of Holdfast Reach
for this locality; and perhaps in some future generations, when this part of the world has
undergone the changes that seems destined for it, the archaeologist of Victoria River may in
vain puzzle his wits with speculations concerning the Beagle's anchors.

Whilst at this anchorage, just after dark, flocks of whistling ducks were constantly heard
passing over our heads in a South-West by West direction, or towards the head of Cambridge
Gulf, which led to the supposition that there was a river in that neighbourhood. We placed
the south point of Water Valley in latitude 15 degrees 13 3/4 minutes South and longitude 2
degrees 22 minutes West of Port Essington, variation one degree easterly. Our tidal observation
made the time of high-water, at the full and change of the moon, 9 o'clock, when the mean rise
at springs was sixteen feet, and at neaps ten. The duration of the flood-stream was seven hours,
being two greater than the ebb. The former ran 50 minutes after high-water, and the latter
30 minutes after low-water. Before leaving Holdfast Reach, Lieutenant Emery observed one or
two natives, opposite Water Valley, being the only ones that had been seen from the ship. He
endeavoured to obtain an interview, by going up alone towards them, but they drew off when
he got near.

DROP DOWN THE RIVER.

December 1.

We slipped from our last anchor at daylight, and proceeded down the river. After pirouetting
through Whirlpool Reach, we got as far down as the flats fronting River Peak, above which we
anchored near noon. After having been shut up among rocky ranges for a month, the sight of
the sea horizon was a novelty, and the cool, refreshing breeze, as it came sweeping over the
unbroken expanse of waters, created in us very pleasing sensations.

Next morning we beat down the main channel, which was called the Queen's, the deep water varying
from five to nine fathoms being on the west side. Some shoal patches of a quarter and two fathoms,
lying midway between Observation Island, and the end of the long sand extending off its northern
side, prevented our proceeding further. The boats completed the survey of the western side
of the channel in the afternoon: the largest creek examined by Mr. Forsyth received his name.

REACH THE SEA.

December 3.

Dropping down the channel with a light air from the westward, and a boat in advance sounding,
no impediment occurred after passing the sands extending off Observation Island, as a fine
deep channel of six and eight fathoms followed the western side of Quoin Island, and the long
sand stretching off its north end. When we had cleared this the anchor was dropped in eight
fathoms, and the boats were again employed in sounding.

That the Beagle was once more anchored outside all the banks--to have touched on any of which,
with the great strength of the tides that hurried us along would have been fatal--was a great
relief to all of us, especially to me, in whom Captain Wickham had placed so much confidence
as to trust the ship to my guidance, whilst exposed to the dangers I have mentioned.

December 4.

Moved the ship within three miles and a half of the south extreme point of the river, the highest
part bearing South 40 degrees West. A party of us visited it, and, from a rather extraordinary
sight we there beheld, it was called Turtle Point.

DEAD TURTLES ON THE SHORE.

Behind some very low scattered sandhills that form it, fronting a mangrove flat, we beheld
great numbers of dead turtles, that seemed to have repaired thither of their own accord to
die. They were lying on their bellies, with their shells for the most part uninjured, though
some were turned over, and showed other signs of visits from the natives. A few skeletons of
a large bustard* were also seen there, so that the place had quite the appearance of a cemetery,
and reminded me of a spot on the River Gallegos in Patagonia, where the guanacos (a kind of
llama) assemble to pay the debt of nature, and leave their bones to whiten the surface of the
plain. Never before, on any occasion, had we seen dead turtles in any similar position; how
they could have got there was a mystery, unless we suppose them to have been thrown up by some
earthquake wave. They had evidently not been transported thither by the hand of man, though,
as I have observed, some of the natives who thinly inhabit this district, finding them there,
ready to their hand, had availed themselves of the gifts of fortune. I could not help, as I
gazed on this remarkable scene, calling to mind the marvellous elephant cemetery described
by Sinbad the Sailor. It is possible that the observation of some similar phenomenon may have
suggested to the imagination of the authors of the Thousand and One Nights their romantic fiction.
At any rate an air of mystery will always hang round Turtle Point until the facts I have mentioned
shall have been explained.

(*Footnote. A specimen of one of them was brought away and deposited in the Museum at Sydney.)

The nature of this part of the country I have before described on my visit to Indian Hill.
A ridge of breakers ran off north a couple of miles from our station; a low point, bearing
West 16 degrees South about eight or nine miles, with an opening trending in south intervening,
with some slightly elevated land bearing South 34 degrees West about four or five leagues,
terminated our view to the westward. We found the tide much weaker on this side of the entrance,
not exceeding three miles an hour; the stream ran up three-quarters of an hour after high-water.
The times of high-water for the last three days had been most unaccountably the same.

December 5.

Crossed over to Point Pearce at daylight, but the wind being light all the morning did not
reach an anchorage till the afternoon; the extreme of the point bearing North 41 degrees West
three-quarters of a mile. A line of ripplings extended a couple of miles off to the south-west
of it, in which we found there was only four fathoms. In standing across the entrance we passed
first a bank of three fathoms, with six and seven on each side; Turtle Point bearing South
45 degrees West 11 miles; then two more, one of seven and eight fathoms, with twelve and seventeen
on each side, the other of only two fathoms with twelve on the south, and twenty on the north side.

MERMAID BANK.

We subsequently found the latter to be a continuation of the bank on which Captain King had
five fathoms, Point Pearce bearing North 22 degrees East 5 miles; and in order to record his
visit we named it, after his vessel, Mermaid Bank.

VISIT THE SHORE FOR OBSERVATIONS.

December 7.

I left the ship in the morning to make some observations at Point Pearce for the errors of
the chronometers. I was accompanied to the shore by Mr. Bynoe, who was going on a shooting
excursion. It being high-water, I was obliged to select a spot near the cliffs forming the
point, for carrying out my intention. That selected was about 60 yards from the wood-crowned
cliff which rose behind; thinking such an intervening distance would secure me from the spear
of the treacherous native. This caution rather resulted from what had before occurred at Escape
Cliffs, where Messrs. Fitzmaurice and Keys so narrowly escaped, than from any idea that natives
might be lurking about. Indeed, Mr. Bynoe had been shooting all over the ground yesterday,
and had neither seen nor heard anything to indicate their existence in this neighbourhood;
though doubtless, from what followed, they had been very busily watching him all the time,
and were probably only deterred from making an attack, by the alarm with which his destructive
gun, dealing death to the birds, must have filled them. Requiring equal altitudes, I was compelled
to revisit the spot in the afternoon for the corresponding observations. The boat in which
Mr. Bynoe returned to the ship, was to carry me on shore. We met at the gangway, and in answer
to my inquiry, he informed me that he had seen no traces of the natives. He had shot a new
and very beautiful bird of the finch tribe, in which the brilliant colours of verdigris green,
lilac purple, and bright yellow, were admirably blended.* The time was short; half an hour
would have sufficed for the observations, and we should have left the coast. As it was now
low-water, and I had to traverse a coral reef half a mile in width, I resolved to lighten myself
of my gun, which I had taken with me in the morning, that I might with greater safety carry
the chronometer. On landing I directed Mr. Tarrant and one of the boat's crew to follow with
the rest of the instruments. The walking was very bad, the reef being strewed with coral fragments,
and interspersed with large pools. With my mind fully occupied by all we had seen of late,
I hurried on without waiting, and reached the observation spot, just glancing towards the cliff,
which presented nothing to the view except the silvery stems of the never-failing gumtrees.

(*Footnote. Figured by Mr. Gould from this specimen as Amadina gouldiae.)

THE AUTHOR SPEARED.

I had just turned my head round to look after my followers when I was suddenly staggered by
a violent and piercing blow about the left shoulder:* and ere the dart had ceased to quiver
in its destined mark, a loud long yell, such as the savage only can produce, told me by whom
I had been speared.

(*Footnote. See the view annexed. )

PURSUED BY THE NATIVES.

One glance sufficed to show me the cliffs, so lately the abode of silence and solitude, swarming
with the dusky forms of the natives, now indulging in all the exuberant action with which the
Australian testifies his delight. One tall bushy-headed fellow led the group, and was evidently
my successful assailant. I drew out the spear, which had entered the cavity of the chest, and
retreated, with all the swiftness I could command, in the hope of reaching those who were coming
up from the boat, and were then about halfway. I fully expected another spear while my back
was turned; but fortunately the savages seemed only to think of getting down to the beach to
complete their work. Onward I hurried, carrying the spear, which I had drawn from the wound,
and determined if, as I expected, overtaken, to sell my life dearly. Each step, less steady
than the former one, reminded me that I was fast losing blood: but I hurried on, still retaining
the chronometer, and grasping my only weapon of defence. The savage cry behind soon told me
that my pursuers had found their way to the beach: while at every respiration, the air escaping
through the orifice of the wound, warned me that the strength by which I was still enabled
to struggle through the deep pools and various other impediments in my path, must fail me soon.
I had fallen twice: each disaster being announced by a shout of vindictive triumph, from the
bloodhounds behind. To add to my distress, I now saw, with utter dismay, that Mr. Tarrant,
and the man with the instruments, unconscious of the fact that I had been speared, and therefore
believing that I could make good my escape, were moving off towards the boat. I gave up all
hope, and with that rapid glance at the past, which in such an hour crowds the whole history
of life upon the mind, and one brief mental act of supplication or rather submission to Him
in whose hands are the issues of life and death, I prepared for the last dread struggle.

NARROW ESCAPE FROM DEATH.

At that moment the attention of the retreating party was aroused by a boat approaching hastily
from the ship; the first long, loud, wild shriek of the natives having most providentially
apprised those on board of our danger. They turned and perceived that I was completely exhausted.
I spent the last struggling energy I possessed to join them. Supported on each side I had just
strength to direct them to turn towards our savage enemies: who were hurrying on in a long
file, shouting and waving their clubs, and were now only about thirty yards off. Our turning,
momentarily checked their advance, whilst their force increased. During these very few and
awfully anxious moments, a party, headed by Lieutenant Emery, hastened over the reef to our
support. Another moment, and ours would have been the fate of so many other explorers; the
hand of the savage almost grasped our throats--we should have fallen a sacrifice in the cause
of discovery, and our bones left to moulder on this distant shore, would have been trodden
heedlessly underfoot by the wandering native.

At the sight of Lieutenant Emery's party, the natives flew with the utmost rapidity, covering
their flight, either from chance or skill, by my party; in a moment the air, so lately echoing
with their ferocious yells, was silent, and the scene of their intended massacre, as lonely
and deserted as before!

I was soon got down to the boat, lifted over the ship's side, and stretched on the poop cabin
table, under the care of Mr. Bynoe, who on probing the wound gave me a cheering hope of its
not proving fatal. The anxiety with which I watched his countenance, and listened to the words
of life or death, the reader may imagine, but I cannot attempt to describe. The natives never
throw a spear when the eye of the person they aim at is turned towards them, supposing that
everyone, like themselves, can avoid it. This was most fortunate, as, my side being towards
them, the spear had to pass through the thick muscles of the breast before reaching my lungs.
Another circumstance in my favour was that I had been very much reduced by my late exertions.

NIGHT OF SUFFERING.

The sufferings of that night I will not fatigue my readers by describing; but I can never forget
the anxiety with which Mr. Bynoe watched over me during the whole of it. Neither can I forget
my feelings of gratitude to the Almighty when my sunken eyes the next morning once more caught
the first rays of the sun. It seemed as though I could discover in these an assurance that
my hour was not yet come, and that it would be my lot for some time longer to gaze with grateful
pleasure on their splendour.

Several excursions were made during our stay in search of the natives, but without success.
An encampment was found in the neighbourhood, near a small freshwater swamp, and by the things
that were left behind it was evident that a hasty retreat had been made. It would have been
as well if we could have punished these people in some way for their unprovoked attack; but
to have followed them far into the bush would have been quite useless. A comparison of their
conduct with that of the natives of Shoal Bay, confirms what I have before stated of the extraordinary
contrast presented by the dispositions of the aboriginal inhabitants of Australia; for in both
instances we were the first Europeans they had ever encountered.

TREACHERY BAY.

The observations, which nearly cost me my life in endeavouring to obtain, placed Point Pearce
in latitude 14 degrees 25 minutes 50 seconds, South longitude 2 degrees 49 minutes West of
Port Essington. The time of high-water, at the full and change, was seven o'clock, when the
tides rose from twenty to twenty-six feet. The cliffs forming it are of a reddish hue, from
the quantity of iron the rocks in the neighbourhood contain. To commemorate the accident which
befell me, the bay within Point Pearce was called Treachery Bay, and a high hill over it Providence
Hill.

In the nights of the 10th and 11th we had sharp squalls from the eastward, being early in the
season for their repeated appearance. There was the usual gathering of clouds, the hard edges
of which were lit up by the constant flashing of lightning. It is singular that all these squalls,
wherever we have met them, should happen within five hours of the same time, between nine at
night and two in the morning.

COURSE OF THE VICTORIA.

I have thus detailed the circumstances attending the discovery and partial exploration of the
Victoria, that new and important addition to our geographical knowledge of one of the least
known and most interesting portions of the globe. Its peculiar characteristics--for, like all
Australian rivers, it has distinctive habits and scenery of its own--the nature of the country
through which it flows--its present condition, its future destiny, are all subjects, to which,
though I may have cursorily alluded before, I am under promise to the reader of returning.
Of that promise, therefore, I now tender this in fulfilment.

The Victoria falls into the Indian Ocean in latitude 14 degrees 40 minutes South and longitude
129 degrees 21 minutes East, being at its confluence with the sea, between Turtle and Pearce
Points, twenty-six miles wide. The land upon either side as you enter the river is bold and
well defined, but from the margin of the western shore, an extensive mud and mangrove flat,
not entirely above the level of high-water, and reaching to the base of a range of hills, about
seventeen miles from the water's edge, seems to indicate that at one time the waters of the
Victoria washed the high land on either side.

For the first thirty miles of the upward course, the character of the river undergoes but little
change. The left side continues bold, with the exception of a few extensive flats, sometimes
overflowed, and a remarkable rocky elevation, about twenty-five miles up, to which we gave
the name of The Fort, as suggested by its bastion-like appearance, though now called Table
Hill in the chart. To the right the shore remains low, studded with mangroves, and still, from
appearance, subject to not unfrequent inundations: towards the mouth, indeed, it is partially
flooded by each returning tide. Thirty-five miles from its mouth its whole appearance undergoes
the most striking alteration. We now enter the narrow defile of a precipitous rocky range of
compact sandstone, rising from 4 to 500 feet in height, and coming down to the river, in some
places nearly two miles wide, in others not less than twenty fathoms deep, and hurrying through,
as if to force a passage, with a velocity sometimes not less than six miles an hour.

NATURE OF THE COUNTRY.

It continues a rapid stream during its passage through this defile, an extent of some thirty
miles, and beyond it is found slowly winding its way towards the sea across a rich alluvial
plain, fifteen miles in width. Above this plain is found a second range of similar character
and formation to that before mentioned; the stream, however, having of course somewhat less
both of width and depth, and flowing with a decreased rapidity. The elevation of the hills
on either side was at first entering considerably less than in the former range; they had also
lost much of their steep and precipitous appearance; but as we gradually proceeded up, the
former distinctive characteristics returned: the hills rose higher and more boldly, almost
immediately from the water's edge, and continued each mile to present a loftier and more rugged
front; never however attaining the extreme altitude of the former or Sea Range. Above Reach
Hopeless the width of the alluvial land, lying between the immediate margin of the river and
the hills which bound its valley, considerably increased; and just in proportion as the high
bold land approached the channel on one shore, it receded from it on the opposite, and left
an extensive alluvial flat between that bank and the retreating hills; the whole valley, too,
widened out, so that, supposing the stream at one time to have filled it from the bases of
the high land on either side, it must have had a breadth above Reach Hopeless of from three
to five miles, and this still increased when I last traced its presumed course beyond Mount Regret.

The extreme altitude of Sea Range is from 7 to 800 feet, and of the hills last seen, near Mount
Regret, from 4 to 500. The distinctive formation common to both consists in their level summits,
within twenty feet of which a precipitous wall of rock, of a reddish hue, runs along the hillside.

VEGETABLE PRODUCTIONS.

The upper portion of the valley through which the river passes varies in its nature from treeless,
stony plains to rich alluvial flats, lightly timbered with a white-stemmed gum. The banks are
steep and high, thickly clothed with the acacia, drooping eucalyptus, and tall reeds. The various
lake-like reaches had, of course, no perceptible stream, but their banks, no less than the
dry patches in the bed of the river, satisfied us that the Victoria had recently been, and
in all probability would soon again become, a large and rapid river.

GOUTY-STEM TREE.

Among the most curious vegetable productions along its banks are the silk cotton-tree and the
gouty-stem tree. The latter has been already mentioned by Captains King and Grey, and here
attains a great size: it bears a very fragrant white flower, not unlike the jasmine; the fruit
is used by the natives, and found to be a very nutritious article of food, something similar
to a coconut. Not having previously noticed it in this neighbourhood I conclude this to be
the northern limit of its growth. The reader will remember my having before alluded to seeing
it near the mouth of Fitzroy River, where I have also mentioned the extent of coast on which
we found it, and given the limits of its indigenous empire, extending not quite over two degrees
of latitude. The peculiar character of the tree I leave the reader to learn from the woodcuts
annexed.

ITS FRUIT.

That containing the fruit* is from a specimen obtained near the Fitzroy, as it was in flower
when I saw it in the month of November on the banks of the Victoria.

(*Footnote. For description of this fruit, see Volume 1.)

I may here remind the reader, that among the results of our exploration of the Victoria was
the addition of a new species of kangaroo, a freshwater tortoise, some fish, and several beautiful
birds to the domains of natural history.

SAIL FOR SWAN RIVER.

December 12.

By this day Mr. Bynoe thought I was sufficiently recovered to be able to bear the motion of
the ship at sea, and we accordingly sailed in the morning for Swan River.

Standing out from Point Pearce we had a better view, than on our first approach, of the coast
to the north of it; trending in a North 11 degrees East direction. It had a sandy appearance
and was fronted with a rocky ledge at low-water, with one or two remarkable bare sand patches,
four or five miles from the Point. We had a shoal cast of nine fathoms (eight at low-water)
ten miles west from Point Pearce. In the afternoon we stood to the westward, in very even soundings
of 15 fathoms.

On the 13th we saw the white cliffs of Cape Rulhieres, which, like Point Pearce, we found to
be four miles and a half west of its assigned position. On the 14th and 15th we were beating
to the westward with a light and variable wind.

SAHUL SHOAL.

Our progress was slow, the monsoon being light; we therefore stood to the northward, to find
a more steady breeze, and in order, whilst making our westing, to get some soundings over a
large dotted space in the chart, bearing the name of the Great Sahul Shoal. We desired also
to ascertain the extent of the bank of soundings extending off this part of the Australian
continent, which here approaches to within 245 miles of the south end of Timor. The soundings
varied, according to the boards we made over it, from 30 to 60 fathoms; the bottom in the lesser
depth being a kind of coral, with bits of ironstone mixed with sand; whilst in the greater
depth, it was a green sandy mud.

On the 17th at 8 P.M., whilst standing on the north-west, near the centre of the eastern part
of the supposed Sahul Shoal, the water shoaled suddenly to 16 fathoms, from 68, a mile to the
south-east. The helm was put down, and when in stays there were only 14 1/2. The position of
this patch is in latitude 11 degrees 8 1/2 minutes South, longitude 126 degrees 33 minutes
East. Standing off South by East, in two miles the water deepened to 72 fathoms. It was not
until we had gone about ten miles, that we again got into 60 fathoms, on the outer edge of
the bank of green sandy mud, fronting the Australian shore, and approaching within a hundred
miles of the south end of Timor. This bank appears to be separated from the collection of coral
patches, forming the Sahul Shoal by a deep gap or gut, in which the depth generally was above
70 fathoms, with a rocky bottom; though in part of it, in latitude 11 degrees 36 minutes South
and longitude 124 degrees 53 minutes East, there was no bottom with 207 fathoms.

Dr. Wilson, in his Voyage round the World, mentions that he crossed several parts of the Sahul
Shoal on his passage from Timor to Raffles Bay, and never found less than 14 fathoms.

On the 20th, at noon, we had no bottom with 131 fathoms, latitude 11 degrees 34 minutes and
longitude 124 degrees 52 minutes East. Our progress now appeared to improve. Strange to say,
though apparently in the very heart of the monsoon, we were favoured with a light breeze from
the south-east; and, to show how currents are governed by the wind, I may remark that the current
experienced this day had changed its direction from North-North-East to West.

SCOTT'S REEF.

On the 24th, several water-snakes were seen, and in the afternoon, with a light north-west
wind, we passed about six miles from the north end of Scott's Reef,* which we placed a few
miles to the westward of its position in the chart, and of which we shall take another opportunity
of speaking.

(*Footnote. One of the discoveries of Captain Peter Heywood, R.N.)

Through God's mercy I was now so far recovered as to be able to crawl on the poop to see this
reef, but soon found that I had overrated my strength: my back became affected; all power appeared
to have deserted my limbs; and I suffered dreadfully. Even to this day I feel the weakness
in my back, particularly in cold weather, or when I attempt to lift any great weight suddenly.

Westerly winds, that increased as we got to the southward, brought us in sight of Depuch Island,
a level lump of land, on the evening of New Year's Day, and at 7 P.M. we tacked in 15 fathoms,
about twelve miles North-West 1/2 North from it. We spent a couple of days beating to westward
in the neighbourhood of the coast, from which the bank appeared to extend sixty miles, with
an equal number of fathoms on its edge.

January 14, 1840.

At noon, the same prevailing westerly winds brought us within fifty miles of the north point
of Sharks Bay, bearing South-East by South. On the same evening we saw a herd of sperm whales.
From that day we had a southerly wind, which drawing round to the east as we got to the south,
forced us away from the land, so that from there our track to Swan River described two sides
of an acute-angled triangle; the 24th placing us somewhat further than we were on the 14th,
namely 700 miles west from our destination; but at length we got a favourable wind to take us in.

DEATH AND BURIAL OF THE COOK.

January 21.

I must refer back to this date to record that a gloom was cast over the ship in the morning,
in consequence of the rigid hand of death having been laid on one of our men, the cook, by
name Mitchell, worn out by old age and bodily infirmities. He breathed his last at midnight,
and at 10 A.M. we committed his body to the deep. There is perhaps no place where the burial
service has a more impressive effect than at sea; and in the present instance the grave demeanour
of the whole crew attested that it was so. The day too was gloomy, and in keeping with the
solemn scene; while a fresh breeze gave the ship a steady keel. Occasionally the beautiful
prayers were interrupted by the roar of the foaming waters as the ship plunged onwards; then
swelling on the breeze and mingling with its wailings they were wafted, we would fain hope,
to that peaceful home to which we were sending our shipmate. A chilling plunge announced his
passage into the mighty deep, leaving no trace to mark the spot on the wave, which swept on
as before.

The wandering and strange life of the deceased became the theme of conversation during the
day, and many interesting anecdotes were recalled. On one occasion he had passed a few days
in a vessel that had been turned bottom up in a squall, but which, luckily, having a light
and shifting cargo, floated. His only companions were two negroes, who, with the apathy of
their race, spent the principal part of the time in sleep. It was by boring a small hole through
the vessel's bottom, and pushing up a stick with a handkerchief attached, that they were enabled
to attract the attention of a passing ship, by whose people they were cut out. Old Mitchell's
propensity for fishing was very singular. Almost down to the last, when in his hammock under
the forecastle, he would have a line passed to him whenever he heard fish playing about; and
he would catch at it as it was drawn through his fingers, until exhausted nature failing he
fell into a lethargic sleep. His situation latterly was peculiarly pitiable. Worldly affairs
and a future state were so painfully mingled, that it was impossible to determine whether or
not resignation predominated. He evidently recoiled from the awful contemplation of futurity,
and sought refuge in the things of this life. Even whilst in the pangs of death he could not
conceive why he should be so cold, and why his feet could not be kept up to a heat which nature,
in obedience to the dictates of infinite wisdom, was gradually resigning.

We arrived at Swan River on the 31st, under circumstances which must forcibly illustrate to
a landsman the precision with which a ship may be navigated. We had not seen land for fifty-two
days, and were steering through a dense fog, which confined the circle of our vision to within
a very short distance round the ship. Suddenly the vapour for a moment dispersed, and showed
us, not more than a mile ahead, the shipping in Gage's Road.

We found a vast improvement in the colony of Western Australia since our last visit, and again
experienced the greatest hospitality from the colonists. To the assiduous attentions of my
much valued friend, the Surveyor-General, Lieutenant Roe, R.N., I in great measure ascribe
my rapid recovery. He gave me a painfully interesting account of an excursion he had made in
search of the party left behind by Captain Grey during his exploring expedition in the neighbourhood
of Sharks Bay, with the sufferings and disastrous termination of which the public have already
been made acquainted in the vivid language of the last-mentioned officer.

LIEUTENANT ROE'S ACCOUNT OF THE RESCUE OF CAPTAIN GREY'S PARTY.

It was on one of those soft beautiful evenings, so common in Australia, that I received this
narrative from my friend. We had strolled from his cottage, at the western extremity of the
town of Perth, and had just emerged from the patch of woodland, concealing it from the view
of the Swan, which now lay at our feet. About a mile below, the broad shadow of Mount Eliza,
nearly extended across the river; and in the darkness thus made, the snow-white sails of a
tiny pleasure-boat flitted to and fro. Beyond lay the beautiful lake-like reach of the river,
Melville Water, just ruffled by a breeze that came sweeping over its surface with all the delicious
coolness of the sea. The beauty of the scene did not divert me from the events of my friend's
story, serving rather to impress them the more vividly on my mind. I remember well the animated
and affecting manner in which he delivered his narrative, and how his hard features became
lit up as he proceeded by an expression of honest pride, fully justified by the fact that he
had on that occasion been the means of saving the lives of several of his fellow-creatures.
When he found them they were under a headland, which they had not sufficient strength left
to ascend, nor were they able to round the sea face of it. One of them, finding all hope of
proceeding further at an end, went down on his knees and prayed to the almighty for assistance;
and just as another had bitterly remarked on the uselessness of proffering such a request,
Mr. Roe and his party, as if directed by the hand of Providence, appeared on the ridge above
them. It would be painful to describe minutely the condition to which these poor fellows had
been reduced; it will be sufficient to state, that thirst had compelled them to resort to the
most offensive substitute for pure and wholesome water.

DEATH OF MR. FREDERIC SMITH.

One of their party, Mr. Frederick Smith, had been left behind; and so bewildered were they
in their despair, that they could give no definite account of what had become of him. Mr. Roe
immediately went in search, and not many miles in the rear, found the poor fellow quite dead
in a bush, with his blanket half rolled round him. It appeared that he had tried to scramble
up a sandhill and had fallen back into the bush and died--a sad and melancholy fate for one
so young. He had laboured under great disadvantages in walking, having cut his feet in very
gallantly swimming out to save one of the boats during a hurricane in Sharks Bay. He was reduced
to a perfect skeleton; having, in fact, been starved to death. The sight drew forth a tributary
tear of affection even from the native who accompanied the party. Mr. Roe consigned poor young
Smith's remains to the earth, and setting up a piece of board to mark the spot, smoothed down
his lonely pillow, and moved with his companions in mournful silence towards the south.

It must have been an impressive scene; the sun, as if conscious that he was shining for the
last time on the remains of the ill-fated young explorer, seemed to linger as if unwilling
to descend into the western horizon; and his full red orb painted a number of light airy clouds
that floated through the sky in the most brilliant colours, and shed a stream of fire over
the water as it rolled with a mournful dirge-like sound on the strand close by. The howl of
a wild dog now and then fell on their ears as they performed their melancholy task, and alone
broke the stillness that reigned around, as they retreated slowly along the beach.

Whilst on this humane excursion, Mr. Roe witnessed a wondrous gift possessed by the natives.
The one that accompanied him, perceiving footmarks on the sand, where some of his countrymen
had been, was enabled by them to tell Mr. Roe, not only in what number they were, but THE NAME
OF EACH. This account was verified on their return to Perth, from whence the natives had been
sent during Mr. Roe's absence on the same errand.

HURRICANE IN SHARKS' BAY.

The hurricane I have mentioned, as encountered by Captain Grey in Sharks Bay, latitude 26 degrees
South, occurred on February 28th, which, corresponding with the hurricane season of the Mauritius,
leaves little doubt that at the same time the shores of New Holland are occasionally visited
by more easterly ones, moving in nearly the same direction. The other two instances of hurricanes
occurring in the neighbourhood are those of the Ceres, in 1839, in latitude 21 degrees South,
above 300 miles North-North-West from Sharks Bay, and of the Maguashas towards the end of February,*
1843, in latitude 18 degrees South, about 400 miles north of the same place. Ships, therefore,
passing along the North-west coast of New Holland at the season we have mentioned, should be
prepared for bad weather. The hurricane experienced by Captain Grey began at South-east and
ended at North-west. The lull in the centre of it showed that the focus of the storm must have
passed over that locality. Captain Grey does not enter sufficiently into detail to enable us
to trace the veering of the wind.

(*Footnote. In volume 1 will be found mention of the bad weather met with by the Beagle in
this month on the north-west coast. For further information on this subject see Mr. Thom's
interesting Inquiry into the Nature and Course of Storms London 1845.)

An observation I made on visiting this time the upper course of the Swan, is worth recording.
Many parts were perfectly dry, more so than any I had seen on the Victoria, and yet I was informed
that last year those very parts were running with a good stream. It seems reasonable to infer,
therefore, that in certain seasons of the year the Victoria, though dry in some places when
I visited it, is a full and rapid river.

During our stay the Colonial schooner, Champion, returned from an unsuccessful search for the
mouth of the Hutt River, discovered by Captain Grey in the neighbourhood of Moresby's Flat-topped
Range. Near the south end of it, however, they found a bay affording good anchorage.

ROTTNEST ISLAND.

March 25.

We moved the ship to Rottnest Island, to collect a little material for the chart, and select
a hill for the site of a lighthouse. The one we chose lies towards the south-east end of the
island, bearing North 76 degrees West (true) twelve miles and a quarter from Fremantle gaol.
The Governor and Mr. Roe accompanied us to Rottnest, where we found that a penal establishment
of Aboriginal prisoners had been formed during our absence.

ABORIGINAL CONVICTS.

No one would say that the Australian natives cannot work, if they could just see the nice cottages
of which this settlement is composed. The Superintendent merely gives the convicts a little
instruction at first, and they follow his directions with astonishing precision. They take
great pride in showing visitors their own work. It is an interesting though sorrowful sight
to see these poor fellows--some of them deprived of their liberty for life, perhaps for crimes
into which they have been driven by the treatment they receive from those who have deprived
them both of their land and of their liberty. Many, if not most of them, are in some measure
unconscious of guilt; and they are almost incapable of appreciating the relation between what
they have committed and the punishment which has fallen on them. Their minds are plunged in
the darkest ignorance; or if they know anything beyond the means of satisfying their immediate
wants, it is that they have been deprived of their rightful possessions by the men whose chains
they wear. Surely this reflection should now and then present itself to the white man who is
accustomed to treat them so harshly, and induce him to judge more leniently of their acts,
and instead of confining himself to coersive measures for protection, make him resort to the
means which are within his reach of raising the despised and oppressed savage more nearly to
a level with himself in the scale of humanity.

The native prisoners at Rottnest collect salt from the lagoons, cut wood, and at present almost
grow sufficient grain to keep them, so that in a short time they will be a source of profit
rather than of loss to the crown. Some of them pine away and die; others appear happy. Generally,
however, when a fresh prisoner comes among them, great discontent prevails; they enquire eagerly
about their friends and families; and what they hear in reply recalls vividly to their minds
their wild roving life, their corrobories, the delights of their homes; and of these, too,
they are sometimes compelled to think when a blue streak of smoke stealing over the uplands,
catches their restless eye, as it wanders instinctively forth in that direction from their
island prison. They will often gaze on these mementos of their former free life, until their
eyes grow dim with tears and their breasts swell with those feelings which, however debased
they may appear, they share in common with us all. On these occasions they naturally turn with
loathing to their food. Those who suffer most are the oldest; for they have ties to which the
younger are strangers.

The rapidity with which the young ones grow up and improve in appearance, in consequence of
their regular food and the care taken of them, is astonishing. They are allowed to have a common
kind of spear, though without any throwing stick; and sometimes receive permission to go to
the west end of the island to endeavour to kill wallaby, which are there rather numerous.

We were happy to find that the attention of the public, and the Government at home, had been
drawn to the wrongs and sufferings of the Aborigines of Australia; and that a desire of preserving
them from deterioration and ultimate destruction, had been evinced. Protectors had been sent
out for the purpose of attending especially to their interests, so that it was evident that
what was wanted was not goodwill towards them. It was easy, however, to perceive that the system
was a bad one, and to foretell its failure. The most prominent feature in the plan adopted,
was the gathering together of the natives in the neighbourhood of settlers without previously
providing them with any means of subsistence, so that they were in a manner compelled to have
recourse to depredations.

AMERICAN WHALERS.

To show to what extent whaling is carried on in these seas by foreigners, I may mention that
during our stay at Swan River, I at one time counted as many as thirteen American whalers at
anchor. It was to be regretted that this department of industry had been abandoned by the colonists,
who however derived considerable advantage from the barter trade they carried on with the whale
ships.

At Perth we found our old shipmate Miago, and were sorry to observe that he was as great a
savage as ever. He had got into considerable disgrace among his fellows on account of his having
performed one of these feats of which he was so continually boasting on the North-west coast,
namely, carrying away a woman. He was hiding about, in momentary fear of being speared by those
whom he had injured.

BOTANY OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA.

Among the information obtained this time at Swan River, was the following table, relating to
the vegetable kingdom of Western Australia.

COLUMN 1: NAME COMMONLY GIVEN BY SETTLERS. COLUMN 2: NATIVE NAME. COLUMN 3: GENUS. COLUMN 4:
REMARKS.

Mahogany : Jarrail* : Eucalyptus : Grows on white sandy land.

Red gum : Kardan : Eucalyptus : On loamy land.

Bluegum : Co-lort : Eucalyptus : On river banks and flooded lands, a sure indication of vicinity
of water.

White gum : Wando : Eucalyptus : On stiff clay lands, sometimes tapped for water contained
in hollow trunk.

York gum : To-art : Eucalyptus : Abundant in York--on good soil.

Cable gum, these varieties all seen in the interior, not common at Perth : Gnardarup : Eucalyptus
: Like several stems twisted together, abondant in interior.

Cable gum, these varieties all seen in the interior, not common at Perth : Wooruc : Eucalyptus
: Brown glossy stem, smooth.

Cable gum, these varieties all seen in the interior, not common at Perth : Gnelarue : Eucalyptus
: Nankeen-coloured stem.

Cable gum, these varieties all seen in the interior, not common at Perth : Mallat : Eucalyptus
: Tall, straight, rough bark.

Cable gum, these varieties all seen in the interior, not common at Perth : Morrail : Eucalyptus
: Nearly similar.

Cable gum, these varieties all seen in the interior, not common at Perth : Balwungar : Eucalyptus
: Glaucus-leaved.

Honeysuckle : Mang-ghoyte : Banksia : Large flowering cones containing honey.

Honeysuckle : Be-al-wra : Banksia : Large flowering cones containing honey.

Black wattle : Kile-yung : Acacia : Indication of good soil--produces gum.

Broom or Stinkwood : Cab-boor : - : Light sandy loam.

Holly : Tool-gan : Hakea : Sandy soil--produces gum.

Cabbage tree : Mote yar : Nuytsia floribella : Gum in abundance.

Beef tree or the oak : - : Casuarina.

Palm tree : Djir-jy or jirjy : Zamia media, gl. : Red fruit, nut, called baio, ripe in March,
is considered a delicacy by the natives.

Raspberry jam : Maug-art : Acacia : Sweet scented--grows on good gruund.

Raspberry jam : Minnung : Acacia : Gum very abundant.

Blackboy : Balga : Zantha hast : Gum on the spear--resin on the trunk.

York nut : Madda : - : Smells like sandalwood.

Red apple : Quonni : - : Affects salt grounds.

Swamp oak : Yeymbac : - : Name applies rather to the paper-like bark--used to hold water, to
cover houses, etc.

Rough-topped blackboy : Barro : Zantha : Resin makes a powerful cement.

Native yam : Werrang : - : Said to grow to a large size to the North.

Native potato : Tubuc : Orchis.

Native turnip : Canno.

New Zealand flax : - : Phormium tenax : This grows pretty abnndantly, I forget the native name.

(*Footnote. The letter a is sounded broad and full as in Father.)

SAFETY OF GAGE ROADS.

The result of our soundings between Rottnest Island and the main, showed that a bank extended
out to the north-east, from the foul ground off the Stragglers, sufficiently to check, in some
measure, the vast body of water rolling in from the north-west; and thereby adding to the safety
of Gage Roads, provided vessels anchor in the proper berth, which is in seven or eight fathoms,
on sandy mud, about a mile from the gaol, bearing East by North. A quarter of a mile nearer
the shore the bottom shoals rapidly to four and three fathoms, on rocky ground slightly coated
with sand. It is therefore not likely a ship, well found, can drag her anchor up a bank so
steep as that inclination in the bottom forms. The wrecks that have occurred in this anchorage
may be traced to vessels not selecting a proper berth. From their desire to be near the shore
they get into the shoal rocky ground; a breeze comes on when they are in no way prepared, in
the midst of discharging cargo; and in some cases, before a second anchor can be let go, the
ship is driven on shore. Thus, through the want of judgment exhibited by a few individuals,
has a whole community suffered in the manner I have alluded to, when speaking of the loss of
the Orontes at Port Essington.*

(*Footnote.

SAIL FROM SWAN RIVER.

The improved state of the colony enabling us to get supplies, it was resolved that we should
return to the North-west coast, examining on the way, Houtman's Abrolhos, a coral group that
had very rarely been visited, since the Dutch ships were lost on them, one 120 and the other
220 years ago, and of which next to nothing was known.

Not being able to persuade Miago to accompany us, he being too much engaged with his new wife,
we enlisted the services of a native youth who generally went by the name of Tom, and left
Gage Roads on the afternoon of April 4th.

Off the west end of Rottnest a sail was seen, which we afterwards found, to our mortification,
was H.M.S. Britomart, from Port Essington. We had another fruitless search for the bank reported
to the northward of Rottnest. Steering North-North-West from the west end of it, the soundings
increased gradually to 35 fathoms, till passing Cape Leschenault at the distance of twenty-two
miles; but afterwards, no bottom with 50 fathoms, till reaching the latitude of 31 degrees
7 minutes South, where the coast projecting, brought us again within twenty miles of it, and
into a depth of 45 fathoms. We continued in soundings till in latitude 30 degrees 36 minutes
South, varying from 26 to 98 fathoms, seventeen miles from the land with the former, and twenty-five
with the latter depth, which shows the extent and steepness of the bank of soundings fronting
the coast, between the parallels I have mentioned.

THE ABROLHOS GROUP.

April 6.

There was unusual weather last night, overcast with a squally westerly wind. Just laying our
course North-North-West, at noon we were in latitude 29 degrees 11 minutes South, on the position
assigned to a reef called the Turtle Dove. From the masthead I could see nothing indicating
a shoal. Captain King passed near this position, and also remarks not seeing it. The Colonial
schooner Champion, in beating to the southward, has passed over and near its assigned position,
and I think we may fairly infer that there is no such reef as the Turtle Dove, and that probably
it originated from the south end of the Abrolhos reef, ten miles North-North-West of it, being
seen. We found 29 fathoms on this supposed shoal, with 35, twelve miles South by East of it,
and 127, twenty-eight miles in the same direction. Between it and the south end of the Abrolhos
Group the water deepened to 35 fathoms. In approaching the nearest island we passed close round
the south-east end of a reef, running out about a mile from the south point, and then trending
away round in a North-west by North direction, so as to form one side of a lagoon, whilst the
island I have mentioned--a long narrow strip trending North-east by North--forms the other.
The weather looking unsettled, the wind being from the south-west, with slight rain squalls,
we were glad to find shelter, so near the commencement of our work, in a bight on the east
side of the island, three quarters of a mile from the south point, where we anchored in 13
fathoms, scarcely a quarter of a mile from the shore. A coral patch, of two and a half fathoms,
with only two on its northern extreme, confines this anchorage, which affords shelter from
South-South-East round by West to North-east by North. The tide rose here 32 inches.

From the masthead I got a tolerably good view of the island, in some places scarcely a cable
wide, and a number of islets scattered to the north-west. The lagoon at this place was not
more than three miles across, though marked twelve in the old charts; and I could trace the
long line of white breakers rolling in on the other side in solemn grandeur, contrasting strongly
in their foaming turbulence with the placid waters within the protection of the reef and island.
I could clearly distinguish the limit of the danger in this direction, and that there was nothing
to break the swell beyond. The surface of the lagoon was diversified by blue and grey patches,
showing the alternations of shoal and deep water; near the centre there appeared to be a channel,
which we afterwards found to be ten fathoms deep.

In the head of the bight where we were anchored, there was a narrow low sandy neck, placed
by our observations in latitude 28 degrees 58 minutes 26 seconds South and longitude 1 degree
47 minutes 32 seconds west of Swan River,* over which we hauled a boat to examine the opposite
side of the lagoon.

(*Footnote. As we shall refer all longitudes during this cruise to Scott's Jetty, Swan River,
I may here state that the approximate longitude of that place is considered to be 115 degrees
47 minutes East of Greenwich.)

A few remarkable clumps of mangroves pointed out the position of some lagoons about a mile
and a half from the south end of the island, which is fronted by a line of low overhanging
cliffs of recent, cream-coloured limestone. Upon these rests a layer of a kind of soil, in
some places eighteen inches deep, in others four feet, in which the seabirds burrow, and which,
from what I have since seen of the much sought after guano, I believe to contain some of the
valuable substance. In some of the islands forming Houtman's Abrolhos which we subsequently
examined, I found similar signs of the presence of this manure, which I think worthy of being
made the subject of enquiry.

On the south part of the island I found a block of scoria measuring three feet by two; which,
though not appearing to possess the power of floating, must have been brought by the current
from the volcanic island of St. Paul's. We saw a few hair-seals on the beach when we landed,
and a rich kind of rock oyster was found at low-water.

PELSART GROUP.

On the south west point of the island the beams of a large vessel were discovered, and as the
crew of the Zeewyk, lost in 1728, reported having seen the wreck of a ship on this part, there
is little doubt that the remains were those of the Batavia, Commodore Pelsart, lost in 1627.
We in consequence named our temporary anchorage Batavia Road, and the whole group Pelsart Group.
It was the wreck of this Dutch ship that led to the discovery of this part of the continent
of Australia, Commodore Pelsart himself having crossed over to it in a boat in search of water.

VISIT TO THE MAIN.

April 8.

In the afternoon we got underweigh, with a fresh south wind. The low neck over which the boat
was hauled, and which appeared like a gap from the offing, bearing west, led clear to the northward
of the two fathom patch. We steered across East by South 1/2 South for the main, losing sight
of the island from the Beagle's poop (height 15 feet) at the distance of five miles and a half.
Three miles further brought us in sight of the land, forming a high level range, with a knob
or lump on its south extreme. Some five or six miles to the south-east were seen isolated peaks,
which we rightly supposed to be the Wizard Hills of Captain King, whilst the lump above spoken
of proved to be Mount Fairfax, the level range being Moresby's Flat-topped Range. As we neared
them the Menai Hills began to show themselves.

Our soundings, after leaving the island, deepened quickly to 30 and 35 fathoms. Six miles from
it the depth decreased to 23 fathoms. We stood off and on during the night, the current setting
North-North-West a mile an hour. The space between the Abrolhos and the main bears the name
of Geelvink Channel, after Vlaming's ship, the first that ever passed through (A.D. 1680).

The chief object of the Beagle's visit to the main was to ascertain the position of a good
anchorage, before spoken of as reported at Swan River to be under the south-west end of Moresby's
Flat-topped Range. The favourable account which Captain Grey had given of the country behind
the range made the knowledge of a good anchorage in its neighbourhood of vast importance. Captain
King missed this portion of the coast by crossing over to the Abrolhos, which he places some
five miles too much to the westward, the lowness of the island deceiving him, as indeed it
at first did us. The reef off the south-west end, however, he has rightly fixed.

April 9.

At daylight the ship was in 24 fathoms, fifteen miles from Wizard Hills, bearing South 70 degrees
East. As we neared the shore, steering North-East by North we saw a low point, running out
west from the south end of Moresby's Range, fronted by heavy breakers, particularly to the
north-west. Behind, the water was quite smooth, and promised a snug anchorage. We passed round
the reef in 13 1/2 fathoms, at the distance of a half, and three-quarters of a mile; but we
did not haul into the bay until some suspicious spots had been sounded over by a boat. Finding
not less than four and a half fathoms, we stood in, Mount Fairfax bearing east. The small table
hill forming the north-west extreme of the Menai Hills, bearing North 11 degrees East, leads
clear to the westward of the reef. Between this and the north point of the bay the water occasionally
lifts suspiciously. Inside the depth is regular, five and six fathoms, fine white sand.

CHAMPION BAY.

To this anchorage was given the name of Champion Bay; whilst the projection sheltering it from
the south-west was called Point Moore, after the Attorney-general at Swan River, who visited
it in the Colonial schooner. We anchored early in the forenoon in four fathoms, Mount Fairfax
bearing North 81 degrees East five miles and three-quarters; Point Moore South 49 degrees West
one mile, the end of the reef North 60 degrees West also one mile, and a bare-topped brown
sandhill, South 33 degrees East, three-quarters of a mile. Immediately under the last-mentioned
the observations were made, placing that spot in latitude 28 degrees 47 minutes 8 seconds South
and longitude 1 degree 9 minutes 20 seconds West of Swan River. A most singular ridge of very
white sandhills lay a quarter of a mile to the eastward.

ELEVATION OF THE HILLS.

A plan of the bay was made, and the elevation of the neighbouring heights taken; Mount Fairfax
proving to be 585 feet, and Wizard Peak 700 feet.

I regretted there was not time to visit Moresby's Flat-topped Range, as we might have got a
glimpse of the good land reported by Captain Grey in the neighbourhood. The sides of the high
lands look fertile over the sandhills of the bay; but through a spy-glass I found that they
had a brown arid appearance and were destitute of timber.

I was forcibly struck with the resemblance between Moresby's Range, Sea Range on the Victoria,
Cape Flattery on the north-east coast, and I may add, from Flinders' description, the cliffs
forming the coast range at the head of the Australian Bight. The great similarity in the elevation,
all being between 500 and 700 feet, is still more remarkable. To bring this great resemblance
between opposite portions of the Australian continent before the reader, I have inserted sketches
of those parts which were seen in the Beagle.

The beach in the south corner of Champion Bay, having the appearance of being seldom visited
by a surf, it is possible that a small vessel may be sheltered by the reef in north-west gales,
which the anchorage is exposed to, and which, therefore, can only be considered safe in the
summer season. Five miles to the southward of Point Moore there is another bay, which appeared
much exposed to the prevailing winds. The shore between is rocky with outlying reefs.

LEAVE CHAMPION BAY.

April 10.

We left Champion Bay at daylight, with a moderatE south wind and fine weather, and passed over
some uneven ground south-west of the north point, soundings varying from five to seven fathoms,
sand and rock, which though at a quiet time, almost formed breakers.

APPEARANCE OF THE COAST.

As we ran along to the northward, the coast was lined with sandhills very partially dotted
with vegetation. Behind these was a margin of brown arid-looking downs, receding to the foot
of the uplands. Twenty miles of the coastline from Champion Bay trended North 29 degrees West.

At noon we were in latitude 28 degrees 26 minutes South; the Menai Hills, a group lying just
off the north end of Moresby's Flat-topped Range, bearing South 73 degrees East ten miles.
A valley or ravine, through which probably a rivulet* runs in the wet season, bore North 83
degrees East two miles, and a singular large patch of sand, 270 feet above the sea, North 22
degrees East two miles and a half. North of this patch the land changes its appearance; the
bare sandhills cease, and a steep-sided down, 300 feet high, faces the coastline. Our track
was from two to three miles from the shore, in 19 and 22 fathoms, fine white sand; a heavy
surf washing the beach. South-east of the Menai Hills the country appeared much broken, with
high table ranges of from 4 to 700 feet.

(*Footnote. This (in latitude 28 degrees 25 minutes South) may have been one of the rivers
discovered by Captain Grey, but which it was impossible for us to determine, as no account
of them had been left with the Surveyor-general, Mr. Roe.)

It was now necessary to resume our examination of the Abrolhos, and thirty-one miles on a West
1/4 South course, brought us between two groups of them, where we anchored for the night in
23 fathoms. The soundings in standing across Geelvink Channel, were 22 and 26 fathoms, fine
white sand; the current ran North-North-West, a mile an hour.

April 11.

At daylight we found that the summit of a large island, in the centre of the group to the northward,
bore North 21 1/2 degrees West about nine miles.

GOOD FRIDAY HARBOUR.

We now beat to the southward in search of a harbour, where the ship might lie in safety whilst
we went to work with the boats, and were fortunate enough to discover one close to the north-east
point of a large island lying in the centre of the group to the southward; which we named Easter
Group, and the harbour Good Friday Harbour, to commemorate the season of the Christian year,
at which we visited it. Perhaps at some future period, when the light of the gospel shall have
penetrated to every part of the vast Australian continent, these sacred names, bestowed by
us upon some of its outworks, may be pronounced with pleasure, as commemorative of the time
when the darkness of ignorance and superstition was just beginning to disperse.

Good Friday Harbour, like all coral harbours, requires to be taken by eye, being full of coral
knolls, which necessitate the utmost vigilance. In itself, however, it is an excellent port,
capable of holding a large number of ships, and with a general depth, between the coral patches,
of from 15 to 17 fathoms, with a fine muddy sandy bottom. The eastern extremity of the large
island bearing South by East 1/2 East led into the harbour. As we threaded our way among the
patches of coral, the view from the masthead of the submarine forests through the still pellucid
water was very striking. The dark blue of the deep portions of the lagoon contrasted beautifully
with the various patches of light colours interspersed.

We found to our surprise that the group into which we had penetrated was entirely distinct
from that under which we had first anchored to the southward, so that we had already discovered
the Abrolhos to form three separate groups.

RAT ISLAND.

The centre island we named Rat Island, from the quantity of that vermin with which it was infested.
We also saw here a few seals, and numbers of a very pretty lizard (figured in the appendix)
with its tail covered with spines. Several of these were brought away alive. I had two myself
for nine months on board, and afterwards presented them to Lady Gipps. Of those taken by Lieutenant
Emery, he was so fortunate as to bring one alive to England, in 1841. It is still in his possession,
and thrives remarkably well. In one of his last letters he writes to me as follows on the subject:
"The Abrolhos lizard is very docile, and knows Mrs. Emery quite well, and will eat and drink
out of her hand; but is timid with strangers. Its habits are rather torpid, but it becomes
active when in the sun or before the fire. It eats so very little that a piece of sponge cake
about the size of a small bean will satisfy it for three or four weeks. It changes its skin
twice a year."

The formation of Rat Island resembles that already noticed in Pelsart Group; there were the
same low overhanging cream-coloured limestone cliffs, to the height of half the island; the
greatest elevation of which was 13 feet, with a similar soil, mixed with guano, and filled
with burrows of the sooty petrel, or mutton bird. Surrounding it is a low coral reef, trending
northward to the outer edge of the group.

CORAL FORMATION.

This reef afforded me an opportunity of examining the coral formation of the Abrolhos, which,
with the exception of Bermuda, is the place farthest removed from the equator where coral formation
is found. The reef on which Rat Island rests extends off four hundred yards on the inner side,
and has 12 fathoms just off it, on a grey sandy mud. The greater portion is composed of a variety
of corals intermixed, and forming a consolidated mass, with brain-stones scattered over. It
is nearly dry at low-water; but a portion does not rise so high, projecting out so as to form
a narrow shelf, from the edge of which a wall descends almost sheer to the depth of 54 feet.
The upper 20 feet are formed of a peculiar kind of coral, growing in the shape of huge fans,
spreading out from stout stems overlapping each other in clusters, and having angular cavities
between. The coral forming the lower 34 feet of the wall is of the common large branch kind.

Whilst in Good Friday Harbour the quarter-master reported smoke on one of the islands to the
north-east. All eyes were instantly turned in that direction, in curiosity to find what could
have caused it. And sure enough a long streak of smoke was curling upwards through the air.
It soon however appeared that it rose from some fire on the main, distant about thirty-five
miles, and that its being visible by us was owing to the extreme clearness of the atmosphere.

The observation spot on Rat Island was on the north-east end, which we placed in latitude 32
degrees 42 minutes 50 seconds South and longitude 1 degree 57 minutes 50 seconds West of Swan
River. Having completed our work in the harbour, we left, for the purpose of securing the requisite
material for the north-east part of this group, which we found to be a detached cluster with
deep-water between, and to be also similarly separated from the extreme of the group--a small
isle about five feet high, composed of sand and dead coral. The average depth surrounding the
islands was 20 and 23 fathoms, being the same level as that of the great flat or plain on which
they rest, and which extends out from the mainland, shelving off at the outer edge of the southern
part of the Abrolhos almost precipitously to no bottom with 250 fathoms. We now proceeded southward,
to examine the opening between Easter and Pelsart Groups, and to complete the extremity of
the northern part of the latter.

SNAPPER BANK.

On our way we discovered a coral bank of 7 fathoms, a mile and a half long, seven miles East-South-East
from the north-east end of Easter Group. We called it Snapper Bank, from the immense quantity
of that fish which we found on it. In half an hour we caught more than we could cure, so that
it became necessary to stop the sport. This shows what a lucrative trade might be carried on
by the people of Swan River with the Mauritius; for the lake on the island of Rottnest affording
a large supply of salt, any quantity of fish might easily be caught and cured. The whole group
is abundantly supplied, though nowhere so plentifully as at Snapper Bank.

From near the south-east end of this bank the main was visible from the Beagle's poop. Here
we anchored for the night in 24 fathoms, and next morning stood out to sea between Easter and
Pelsart Groups to ascertain if there were any more reefs to the westward, though the long unbroken
swell was almost sufficient to convince us that there were none.

SOUNDINGS BETWEEN THE GROUPS.

In a line between the outer reefs of the two groups the depth was 36 fathoms; a mile and a
half further in we had 29; but outside it deepened off suddenly to no bottom with 70, and in
two miles and a half to none with 170. Before returning we tried for bottom with 250; but,
as has been already mentioned, without success. Outside the reef we felt a current setting
a mile an hour North-North-West. In standing in again we passed close round the north-west
end of the reef encircling Pelsart Group, in 31 fathoms, and anchored in 17, just without a
line of discoloured water, which we found to have 5 fathoms in the outer part, extending across
the mouth of the lagoon; the largest island bearing South by West one mile and three-quarters.

GUN ISLAND. DUTCH REMAINS.

April 24.

In the morning the boats were despatched on their ordinary work, and Captain Wickham and myself
landed on the largest island, a quarter of a mile long, forming the north-western extreme of
Pelsart Group, and which we named Gun Island, from our finding on it a small brass four-pounder
of singular construction, now deposited in the United Service Museum (see the cut annexed)
with quantities of ornamental brasswork for harness, on which the gilding was in a wonderful
state of preservation; a number of glass bottles and pipes, and two Dutch doits, bearing date
1707 and 1720. This was a very interesting discovery, and left no doubt that we had found the
island on which the crew of the Zeewyk were wrecked, in 1727, and where they remained so long,
whilst building, from the fragments of their vessel, a sloop, in which they got to sea by the
passage between Easter and Pelsart Groups, which has consequently been called Zeewyk Passage.
The scene of their disaster must have been on the outer reef, a mile and three-quarters south-west
from Gun Island, along which ran a white ridge of high breakers.

The glass bottles I have mentioned were of a short stout Dutch build, and were placed in rows,
as if for the purpose of collecting water; some of them were very large, being capable of holding
five or six gallons; they were in part buried in the sand, and the portion which was left exposed
to the air presented a singular appearance, being covered with a white substance that had eaten
away the glaze. A number of seal bones were noticed on this island; and I have no doubt they
are the remains of those that were killed by the crew of the Zeewyk for their subsistence.
On the north end of the island was a hole containing brackish water; when we dug it deeper
the salt water poured in. The next small islet to the East-South-East we discovered to be that
on which the Dutchmen had built their sloop. On the west side of it was a spot free from coral
reefs, thus offering them facilities, nowhere else afforded, for launching the bark which ultimately
carried them in safety to Batavia.

A mile and a half to the southward of Gun Island, opposite a singular-looking indentation in
the outer side of the reefs, a small cluster of cliffy islets approaches within half a mile
of them. It is rather singular that in another of the group--larger than Gun Island, lying
in the centre of the lagoon, and the only one not visited by the Beagle's boats--water should
have been found by a party who came from Swan River to save the wreck of a ship lost in 1843,
close to the spot on which the Batavia struck more than two hundred years ago. This island
is called in the chart Middle Island. The well is on the south point, and the water, which
is very good, rises and falls with the tide. Doubtless this must have been the island on which
the crew of Pelsart's ship found water, though for some time they were deterred from tasting
it by observing its ebb and flow, from which they inferred it would prove salt. The north point
of Gun Island, which our observations placed in latitude 28 degrees 53 minutes 10 seconds South,
longitude 1 degree 53 minutes 35 seconds West of Swan River, is fronted for half a mile by a reef.

MANGROVE ISLETS.

The ship was now moved to the north-east extreme of the lagoon, to which we crossed in 17 fathoms--the
depth we anchored in, a mile north-west from a cluster of islets covered in places with mangroves,
from which they receive their name. To the southward the depth in the lagoon, as far as a square-looking
island, was 15 and 16 fathoms. The north extreme of the south island lay three miles to the
south east of the Mangrove Islets, by which we found that its length was nearly ten miles,
with a general width of about a tenth of a mile.

One of the eastern Mangrove Islets was a mere caY, formed of large flat pieces of dead coral,
of the same kind as that of which I have before spoken as resembling a fan, strewed over a
limestone foundation one foot above the level of the sea, in the greatest possible confusion,
to the height of five feet. In walking over them they yielded a metallic sound. Pelsart, like
Easter Group, is marked by a detached islet lying a mile off its north-east extreme.

May 3.

We fetched in under the Lee of Easter Group as the north-west gale of this morning commenced.
The barometer did not indicate the approach of the gale, falling with it, and acting as in
those we had encountered at Swan River.

SINGULAR SUNSET.

The sunset of the two days preceding had presented a very lurid appearance, and the most fantastically
shaped clouds had been scattered over the red western sky. It seemed as though nature had determined
to entertain us with a series of dissolving views. Headlands and mountains with cloud-capped
pinnacles appeared and faded away; ships under sail floated across the sky; towers and palaces
reared their forms indistinctly amid the vapour, and then vanished, like the baseless fabric
of a dream.

The winds since the 29th had been very easterly; but early on the 1st became fresh from north-east;
a stagnant suspicious calm then succeeded, during the forenoon of the 2nd. At noon the glassy
surface of the water began to darken here and there in patches with the first sighing of the
breeze, which soon became steady at north-west, and troubled the whole expanse as far as the
eye could reach.

HEAVY GALE.

It was not, however, as I have said, before daylight of the 3rd that the gale commenced in
earnest, continuing with great violence, accompanied with heavy squalls of rain, till noon
next day, when the wind had veered to South-South-West. During this time the whole aspect of
the scene was changed; immense dark banks of clouds rested on the contracted horizon; the coral
islands by which we were surrounded loomed indistinctly through the driving mist; and the decks
were drenched by heavy showers that occurred at intervals. The wind blew hardest from West-North-West,
and began to moderate about nine on the morning of the 4th, when it had got round to south-west.
The current during this breeze set a mile and a half East-South-East, changing again to the
northward as the wind veered round to the southward. This clearly shows how certainly, in this
neighbourhood, the movements of the air influence those of the sea.

WATER-SPOUTS.

It was the evening of the 5th before all was again clear overhead. In the morning, however,
we shifted our berth, which had been a mile from the south extreme of the detached cluster
of islets forming the north-east end of Easter Group. Several small water-spouts formed near
the ship as we were about to weigh, which induced us to wait a little until they passed.

On the 8th we bore away for the northern group in 26 and 27 fathoms; the space between was
named Middle Passage.

WALLABY ISLANDS.

Passing outside of a patch of breakers, lying two miles to the northward of the eastern islet,
we hauled up south-east, and by feeling our way with the boats got the ship into a snug harbour
on the south-east side of the highest island of the Abrolhos, which was afterwards named East
Wallaby Island; another large one, named West Wallaby Island, lying two miles to the West-South-West
with three small flat islets just between. To these we gave the name of Pigeon Islands, the
common bronze-winged pigeon being found there in great numbers. The harbour we named Recruit
Harbour, from its affording fresh supplies of the small kangaroo, in addition to the fish found
everywhere else. Like the other ports in the Abrolhos, it is full of coral patches; the south
point of north Pigeon Island, in one with a bare sandhill on the South-East point of West Wallaby
Island, bearing South 50 degrees West, leads into the harbour clear of the spit on the north-west
side and some coral patches on the east. In entering we had 7 and 8 fathoms, but the depth
inside is 11 and 12; it is perfectly sheltered on all sides.

These islands, after the others, of which the greatest height is 12 feet, appear of considerable
altitude; though the loftiest point rising on the north-east extreme of East Wallaby Island,
measures no more than 50 feet. This island is upwards of a mile each way; whilst the west one
is two miles and a half long, and one broad. In the centre of the eastern is a low flat, with
hills rising all around, with the exception of the south side.

FLAG HILL.

The loftiest, which is called Flag Hill, is, as I have mentioned, on the north-eastern extreme,
and has a long finger-shaped point running out from its foot in a north-east direction, to
which we gave the name of Fish Point, from the number of snappers we caught there. They were
so voracious that they even allowed themselves to be taken with a small bit of paper for a
bait. Flag Hill is a rock formed of sand and comminuted shells; while the flat which stretches
to the south-west from its foot is of limestone formation. In it we found a kind of cavern,
about 15 feet deep, with a sloping entrance, in which was some slightly brackish water, that
in percolating through the roof had formed a number of stalactites.

A reef, which dries in patches at low-water, connects the east and west Wallaby Islands. On
the south-west point of the latter are some sandhills 30 feet high; and on that side also is
a dense scrub, in which the mutton birds burrow, so that it forms rather troublesome walking.

SLAUGHTER POINT. NEW SPECIES OF WALLABY.

The northern end is a level, stony flat, terminating towards the sea in projecting cliffs six
or eight feet high; with patches of bushes large enough to serve as fuel here and there, all
full of a new species of wallaby, which, being plentiful on both the large islands, suggested
their name. The reader will obtain a good idea of the numbers in which these animals were found,
when I state that on one day, within four hours, I shot 36, and that between three guns we
killed 76, averaging in weight about seven pounds each; which gave rise to the name of Slaughter
Point for the eastern extreme of the island.

As there is no record of the Dutch having visited the northern group, it is impossible to say
whether wallaby were then found on it or not. How they could have got there is a mystery, as
there were no large floating masses likely to have carried them from the main. The species
has been described from a specimen we obtained, as Halmaturus houtmannii; it is distinct from
Halmaturus derbyanis, found on most of the islands on the southern parts of the continent.

We shall now fulfil our promise to the reader by laying before him the result of Mr. Bynoe's
interesting observations on the Marsupiata, which the number of wallaby killed at Houtman's
Abrolhos afforded him the means of perfecting. I may preface his remarks by stating, that all
the information I could gain from the colonists on the subject was, that the young of the kangaroo
were born on the nipple, which my own experience appears to corroborate.

MR. BYNOE'S OBSERVATIONS ON THE MARSUPIATA.

"My first examination," says Mr. Bynoe, "of the kangaroo tribe, to any extent, occurred at
the Abrolhos; there I had an extensive field for ascertaining the exact state of the uteri
of the wallaby of those islands. I opened between two and three hundred, and never found even
the rudiments of an embryo; but in the pouch I have seen the young adhering to the nipple from
the weight of half a dram to eight ounces and upwards. On examination, the only substance found
in the womb when the animal was young and full grown, was a cheese-like substance of a straw
colour: I likewise found a similar substance in the pouch around the nipples, and in many instances
where the nipples were much retracted, it completely covered them, but it was of a darker hue
than that in the uterus, and of a saponaceous or greasy feel; the aperture of the pouch so
much contracted as scarcely to admit two fingers; wombs with their cornua remarkably small,
and nipples in the pouch scarcely pointing, and in many instances retracted.

"Animals with these appearances, I concluded, had never borne young. Examinations frequently
took place immediately after they were shot. In those that had recently discarded their young
from the pouch, one nipple and frequently two were found much lengthened, and very often one
more than the other. I have seen them in the wallaby frequently two inches in length, and with
pouches so large, that you could with ease thrust your hand into them; the uteri with their
appendages enlarged and apparently very vascular, as well as thickened; but in no one instance
at the Abrolhos could I detect a gravid uterus; but I have seen the young adhering to the nipples
less than half an inch in length, and in a perfectly helpless state. It is generally supposed
that the uterus in the adult animal is not supplied with much arterial blood, merely sufficient
to nourish that viscus. If such be the case, can it have the power of retaining the germ in
the womb, when on the most minute examination of the young, I could not detect, by cicatrice
or line of abrasion on any part of the abdomen, that they ever possessed umbilical vessels,
or had been in any way nourished by a placenta? Let us take into consideration the small size
of the animal found in the pouch, its utter helplessness, its slight power of motion, and its
firm attachment to the nipple. The more it is in the embryonic state the firmer is its attachment
to the mother; to separate it from the nipple requires some force; the surrounding parts of
the opening of the mouth, after separation, bleed profusely, and the animal has no power to
close it; the opening remains gaping and circular, the animal lies on its side, and if very
young, soon dies. On each side of the opening is a line showing the extent of the mouth. When
arrived at greater maturity it can make no noise until the mouth is fully developed, and then
a faint hissing note; it has no power to stand until very large, and the hair is about to shoot
out from the skin. An animal in so helpless a situation could not possibly, with all the aids
and contrivances of the mother, attach itself to the nipple and produce adhesion of the oral
aperture, when even at a later period it has no motion of life or power to close that opening.
The retention in the uterus must be of short duration. I have been led to these conclusions
from examinations on the banks of the Victoria River. A flying doe, inhabiting the grass flats,
of more than ordinary size, was killed. In thrusting my fingers into the pouch, I found that
the mammary glands were remarkably enlarged, pressing forcibly into that cavity. I questioned
the seaman who took up the animal, immediately after being shot, whether he had taken the young
out, and received a negative answer. Finding the mammary glands so extremely enlarged, I was
induced (although pressed for time) to examine the uterus, and posterior and internal parts
of those glands--the cornua as well as the other parts of the uterus were much thickened, and
apparently highly injected with blood. On opening the cavity I found it throughout thickly
coated with slimy or mucal secretion (the only uterus found by me in this state.) I now extended
my examination in front of the womb to the posterior part of the mammae, and in doing so discovered
a small gelatinous mass, about twice the size of a pea. On a closer inspection, it appeared
to be retained in a thin transparent tube. I watched the substance narrowly and could distinctly
perceive the rudiments of an animal. The feet were not developed, but pulsation and motion
were not only observed by me, but by two of the men with me, both exclaiming "look at the little
animal!" although I feel convinced that they did not know what I was searching for. There was
not time to examine further into its state. I carefully removed the uterus, the apparent embryo
and the mammae, and put it in a wide-mouthed bottle with some spirits, and gave it in charge
of the seaman who was to carry a portion of the animal for the dinner of that day. It was placed
in a canvas bag, but on crossing a Deep watercourse he had the misfortune to break the bottle,
which he never mentioned until the following day. The contents soon dried up and became an
uniform mass. The intense heat had rendered it so firm that nothing could be made of it; all
the gelatinous parts had adhered so firmly to the bag, that I was compelled to abandon it.
My object was to ascertain if there was a communication in a greater state of development between
the womb and posterior part of the mammae, during the period of gestation; and I was fancying
I had arrived at some conclusion, but all my hopes were destroyed by one fatal smash! So many
theories have been formed on that point--that to advance this as a fact, would be treading
too firmly on tender ground. At the first view of the gelatinous mass I seriously considered
whether it could have been a gland, and whether the pulsation might have been communicated
from muscular twitchings; I took my eye off the substance for some time, and on again looking
at it, felt more confident than ever, that it was not a glandular substance. Its peculiar configuration
and want of solidity proved it indeed not to be gland; its motion, on touching it with the
point of the finger, was so much that of an embryonic animal, that I at once, without further
investigation, pronounced it a kangaroo.

"Might not the tube I discovered convey the animal to the posterior part of the mammae, where
it might become attached to the nipple in an inverted state? At any rate it was not in the
body of the uterus. Had the mass been saved I should have taken one more look of inquiry without
attempting to alter its structure, and left the matter for the judicious decision of some of
the professors of comparative anatomy at home."

It may here be remarked that the birds met with on Houtman's Abrolhos, with the exception of
one, resembling in shape and colour a small quail,* were known and common on the mainland.
The aquatic species were also familiar to us; but the habit of one kind, of a sooty-black colour,
generally called noddies, was quite new--that of building their nests, which are constructed
of seaweed and contain only one egg, in trees. There were not many varieties of fish, the most
abundant being snappers; of those that were rare Lieutenant Emery made faithful sketches.

(*Footnote. Haemapodicus scintilans, Gould.)

Half a mile west from Slaughter Point we found two caverns similar to that on East Wallaby
Island, from which we got three tons of excellent water.

APPEARANCE OF THE REEFS.

The reefs surrounding this group appeared very much broken; and even at Easter Group we had
found them to be not so regular as at Pelsart's. This suggests the idea, which appears to be
borne out by all we saw, that the reefs are compact in proportion to the exposed position of
the islands; the shelter afforded by Pelsart Group, in fact, did not require the reefs to be
so united round the other islands to the north.

From the highest part of East Wallaby Island we discovered a patch of land bearing North-West
1/2 North eleven miles. The outer reef extended in that direction from the south-west point
of West Wallaby Island, though it could only be traced by detached patches of breakers. To
the south-east of its commencement lies Evening Reef. The observations were made on the north
end of the north-east Pigeon Island, bearing West by South half a mile from our anchorage,
in latitude 32 degrees 27 minutes 21 seconds South and longitude 2 degrees 1 minute 10 seconds
West of Swan River, variation 4 degrees 10 minutes westerly. The temperature of Houtman's Abrolhos
is rendered equable by the fact that they lie at the limit of the land breezes; during the
month we were there the thermometer averaged 71 degrees.

Our protracted stay enabled us to get a tolerable series of tidal observations, which present
some singular results. The time of high-water at the full and change was six o'clock when the
tide rose 30 inches. It appeared that during the night there was a short flood of six hours
with a rise of seven inches, and an ebb of two hours with a fall of only five inches; but that
during the day the flow and ebb were nearly equal, the former being eight hours and twenty
minutes, the latter eight hours and five minutes, and the rise and fall in each being 25 and
26 inches respectively.

TIDAL OBSERVATIONS.

A difference was also noticed between the day and night tides at Rat Island, where the time
of high-water at the full and change of the moon was ten o'clock, and the rise varied from
8 to 32 inches, from the result of twenty-five observations; by which I found, moreover, that
the tides ebbed five hours and a half in the night, and six hours and a half during the day,
and the water fell 9 inches with the night, and 18 with the day ebb. The difference between
the length of the night and the day floods was an hour; the duration of the former being six
hours, whilst that of the latter was seven; whilst the difference in the rise was 7 inches,
the greatest general height, which was during the night tides, being 20 inches.

We were detained in Recruit Harbour until May 21st, determining the position of the number
of small islands and detached reefs to the south-east of Wallaby Islands; but at length, after
completing the soundings on the north-east and north side and ascertaining the extent of the
reef to the north-west, we proceeded to the isolated patch of land before mentioned as seen
from Flag Hill, and which, from its relative position to the remainder of Houtman's Abrolhos,
we called North Island.

An anchorage was found in 12 fathoms, three quarters of a mile from a bay on the north-east
side, and half a mile from the reef extending to the northward. The island was about a mile
across, and nearly circular. It was surrounded by a range of hills, with a flat in the centre,
covered with coarse grass, where a great many quails were flushed, affording good sport, but
not a single wallaby.

RECORD HILL.

The highest hill on the south-west point, measuring 42 feet, received the name of Record Hill,
from our leaving a paper in a bottle, giving an account of our cruise. A contiguous reef stretched
out from the west side of the island for the distance of a mile, beyond which was the open
sea. This reef extended two miles and a half to the North-North-West and four miles and a half
to the southward. Our observations were made on a sandhill 36 feet high, immediately over the
bay, which they placed in latitude 32 degrees 18 minutes 5 seconds South longitude 2 degrees
9 minutes West from Swan River.

LEAVE HOUTMAN'S ABROLHOS.

May 23.

From Record Hill we had perceived that the sea was quite clear to the north and west beyond
the reef, and being satisfied that we had reached the extremity of Houtman's Abrolhos,* we
weighed in the morning, and passed about a mile and a half from the reef to the north of the
island in 26 fathoms; and hauling up South-South-West, along the western side of the reefs,
gradually deepened the water to 42 fathoms over a rocky ground, Record Hill bearing North 70
degrees East six miles and a half. We then had no bottom with 50 and 60 fathoms until noon,
when we had 122 fathoms, sand and coral; Record Hill then bearing North 52 degrees East eleven
miles and a half, just barely visible from the poop. It is singular that we should have had
bottom at that distance from the group, whereas, when we had not proceeded half so far from
the southern portion we had no bottom with 200 fathoms.

(*Footnote. Their extent in latitude therefore nearly corresponded with the old chart; and
the apparent confusion in the shape given them, no doubt arose from their extremes only having
been seen and then extended towards each other.)

To ascertain if there were any more reefs to the westward, we now steered West-South-West,
sounding occasionally with 200 and 220 fathoms unsuccessfully.

After running thirty-two miles without seeing any indication of further dangers, of which,
moreover, the long ocean swell rolling in convinced us, we steered to the northward.

GENERAL OBSERVATIONS.

It may be proper to conclude our account of Houtman's Abrolhos with a few general remarks.
They form three groups instead of one, as was formerly supposed; Pelsart Group being separated
from Easter Group by a channel, the least width of which is four miles, whilst the middle passage
between the latter and the Northern Group is six miles wide. The Abrolhos extend in a North-North-West
direction forty-eight miles, diminishing in breadth towards the north; the greatest width of
Easter and Pelsart Groups being twelve miles in a West-South-West direction. In Easter Group
the outer reefs are most distant from the islands, being there four miles from the nearest,
which is Rat Island. In the Northern Group the islands are more detached than in the others,
and North Island is separated from them by a distance of ten miles.

We have already alluded to the regularity and sameness in the soundings in these groups, and
between them and the main, clearly showing that they are not connected with each other, but
rest on the outer extremity of a level or bank, stretching out from the main, and having a
slight southerly inclination, the depth (29 fathoms) between the southern group and the coast
being greater by four fathoms than between the coast and the northern group. On either side
of the Abrolhos, at the same distance from land, the depth is more than 100 fathoms. The general
nature of the bottom, in the quiet places between the reefs, is a fine grey sandy mud or marl,
but in more exposed situations this is not so compact, whilst broken shells are more abundant.
This bottom bears a striking resemblance to that within the Great Barrier Reefs.

After leaving the Abrolhos, as I have narrated, our progress to the northward was unusually
slow, and between the parallels of 26 degrees 50 minutes South and 25 degrees 40 minutes South
we again got into soundings varying from 187 to 81 fathoms, fine grey sand. At the greatest
depth the ship was forty miles from the land, and twenty miles at the least, which was off
Dirk Hartog's Island, at the south point of Sharks Bay. In passing round the north-west extremity
of the continent we delayed, again endeavouring to get sight of Ritchie's Reef; but, on this
occasion, as on our passage from the Victoria to Swan River, it was not seen, and as no bottom
was obtained with 200 and 240 fathoms in its assigned position on the chart, it must either
have a very different one or does not exist.

PROCEED TO THE COAST.

The part of the North-west coast that had not been seen by Captain King, commencing a short
distance to the east of Depuch Island, it was resolved that our survey of that part should
begin there, and on the 9th of June the Beagle reached an anchorage off a sandy bay on the
north-east side of that island. As we drew near our progress was impeded by a fierce south-east
breeze during the forenoons, which we found to prevail during our stay, being stronger at the
full and change of the moon. Although coming directly from the land they quite made us shiver,
reducing the temperature on one occasion to 59 degrees. These winds began about daylight at
south, gradually veering and drawing round to the eastward as the day advanced, and subsiding
again as rapidly after noon, leaving the evening and night generally calm.

SEARCH FOR WATER.

A search was immediately made for the stream of fresh water reported to have been found by
the French, in Freycinet's voyage, on Depuch Island. As our stock was now very much reduced,
and as our stay on the coast depended on the supply we could procure here, we were greatly
concerned to find that our examination was in vain. Everything appeared parched up; wells were
forthwith commenced, and we dug as many as eight, but at the depth of twenty-one feet the water
that poured into them was salt. Fortunately Mr. Bynoe found a reservoir of water in the main
valley leading up from the north end of the sandy beach, and about a mile from the sea. From
this we got about six tons of tolerable water, although the labour of carrying it on the men's
shoulders in seven-gallon barecas was very great, the only road lying through the valley, which,
as may be inferred from the rounded stones it is strewed with, sometimes conveys a torrent
to the sea. Large columnar blocks of the greenstone of which the island is composed, present,
as the sun falls on their iron rusty surface, an appearance as if the sides of the valley were
lined with red warriors. The section presented to our view, by the deepest well we sank at
the mouth of this valley, consisted of a light kind of mould for six feet, then a layer of
sand and shells of the same depth, resting on a coarse soft kind of reddish sandstone.

FORESTIER GROUP.

Depuch is the centre of a string of islands which bears the name of Forestier Group, fronting
the coast at the distance of from one to three miles. It is much larger than the others, being
about eight miles in circumference, and reaching an elevation of 514 feet; whereas the smaller
islands, some of which are thickly covered with brushwood and coarse grass, are none of them
above 50 feet high. They are of a formation totally different, being of a very coarse gritty
yellow sandstone, in many places quite honeycombed, with some low sandhills superimposed.

DEPUCH ISLAND.

Although Depuch Island is one vast pile of reddish-coloured blocks, scattered about in the
greatest possible confusion, sometimes resembling basaltic columns, its outline from seaward
appears even. In the valleys, and on some of the more level spots near the summit, there are
occasionally slight layers of soil, affording nourishment to a coarse grass, a few bushes,
and several stunted eucalypti; but on the whole the vegetation of the island is extremely scanty.
From the highest point we had a view over the main, extending inland for a great distance.
It appeared to be flat, with the exception of some isolated rocky hills, of a formation similar
to that of Depuch, from 200 to 500 feet in height, and about six miles from the shore. We could
also see at a distance of twenty-eight miles a very remarkable pyramidal hill, surmounted by
a tower-like piece of rock, bearing from our position South 30 degrees West. From the white
appearance of many large patches of the level country, we inferred that they were covered with
a salt efflorescence; and it is probable that a very great portion of it is occasionally flooded,
being cut up by a number of creeks, which must overflow at spring tides, especially when they
occur simultaneously with the north-west winds that prevail on this coast during the monsoon.

This group of islands is so connected with the main by extensive sandbanks, that at low-water
it is possible to walk across to them; and of this facility the natives no doubt avail themselves
to procure turtle. It appears indeed to be only on such occasions that they can visit Forestier
Group, as we saw no traces of rafts on this portion of the coast. Depuch Island would seem
to be their favourite resort; and we found several of their huts still standing. They were
constructed of boughs and twigs fixed in the ground, and joined overhead in a circular shape.
Over this was thrown a loose matting of twisted grass.

NATIVE DRAWINGS.

The natives are doubtless attracted to the place partly by the reservoirs of water they find
among the rocks after rain, partly that they may enjoy the pleasure of delineating the various
objects that attract their attention, on the smooth surface of the rocks. This they do by removing
the hard red outer coating, and baring to view the natural colour of the greenstone, according
to the outline they have traced. Much ability is displayed in many of these representations,
the subjects of which could be discovered at a glance. The number of specimens was immense,
so that the natives must have been in the habit of amusing themselves in this innocent manner
for a long period of time. I could not help reflecting, as I examined with interest the various
objects represented*--the human figures, the animals, the birds, the weapons, the domestic
implements, the scenes of savage life--on the curious frame of mind that could induce these
uncultivated people to repair, perhaps at stated seasons of the year, to this lonely picture
gallery, surrounded by the ocean-wave, to admire and add to the productions of their forefathers.
No doubt they expended on their works of art as much patience and labour and enthusiasm as
ever was exhibited by a Raphael or a Michael Angelo in adorning the walls of St. Peter or the
Vatican; and perhaps the admiration and applause of their fellow countrymen imparted as much
pleasure to their minds as the patronage of popes and princes, and the laudation of the civilized
world, to the great masters of Italy. There is in the human mind an irresistible tendency to
indulge in a sort of minor creation--to tread humbly in the footsteps of the Maker--to reproduce
the images that revolve within it, and to form, from its own ideas, a mimic representation
of the actual world. This is the source of all art and all poetry; of every thing, in fact,
which tends to adorn and refine our nature. It is this uncontrollable desire to work on and
fashion the rough materials that lie under our hands that gives the first impulse to civilization,
and impels us onward in the progress of improvement. And wherever we discern the faintest indication
that such a principle is at work, there we may securely hope that development will ultimately
take place. Until we find a nation which has never attempted to emerge from the circle of its
mere animal wants--which has never exhibited the least inclination to develop the most ordinary
arts--which not only rejects clothing, but is absolutely indifferent to ornament--which leaves
its weapons uncarved, its skin unpainted, free from tattoo, we must not despair of the general
efficacy of civilization. These savages of Australia, as we call them, who have adorned the
rocks of Depuch Island with their drawings, have in one thing proved themselves superior to
the Egyptian and the Etruscan, whose works have elicited so much admiration and afforded food
to so many speculations--namely, there is not in them to be observed the slightest trace of
indecency.

(*Footnote. On one occasion, when Mr. Fitzmaurice, in a whaleboat, was examining a part of
the coast to the eastward of Depuch Island, he entered a creek, which soon, however, became
too confined by the mud-banks for them to use the oars.

HOSTILITY OP THE NATIVES.

While in this position a shout attracted his attention, and he perceived a party of natives,
armed with spears approaching the boat, with evident hostile designs. They of course naturally
looked upon us as intruders; and as the point was not worth contesting, the creek being of
no importance, Mr. Fitzmaurice thought it better to withdraw, rather than run the risk of a
collision that could have led to no beneficial results.

TOM'S TERROR OF THEM.

The native youth we had brought with us from Swan River did not at all approve of these excursions.
He was generally taken, with a view of giving confidence to any of his wild countrymen who
might be encountered; but he exhibited the greatest possible repugnance to this service. His
terror for the northern men fully equalled that of Miago, from whom doubtless he had received
the most terrific accounts. It was only by giving him a gun that he could be at all induced
to go. He evidently felt himself more secure with European arms than with his own rude ones;
and appeared to have learnt their superiority by experience, for he was a very fair shot. When
I first asked him why he did not prefer his spear, his simple reply was, "Can't look out;"
meaning that the northern men could not see the contents of a gun coming, whereas if a spear
were hurled at them they could avoid it. His bravery was of much the same complexion as that
of Miago; and he threatened magnanimously to inflict the most condign punishment on the fellows
who opposed Mr. Fitzmaurice's landing. He had a strong impression that these northern people
were of gigantic stature; and in the midst of the silent and gaping interest with which he
listened to Mr. Fitzmaurice's account of his adventure, the words big fella often escaped from
his lips; and he appeared quite satisfied when assured that his opinion was correct.

The agility this native exhibited in spearing fish was astonishing. In shallow water he would
actually course the fish till he got them within spearing depth, when, although his prey darted
past, he struck it with the most surprising precision. The quiet, splashless manner in which
he ran through the water was really singular. When his spear required new pointing, the sole
of his foot was turned up and the spear's head pared down upon it with a knife. When the latter
was not to be procured the teeth were made use of; and I may here remark that the constant
use which some savages make of their teeth may have much to do in producing the projecting
jaw. It seems almost evident to common sense that the constant employment of the teeth must
have a material effect in causing a change in the facial angle.

ANCHORAGE AT DEPUCH ISLAND.

We found the anchorage at Depuch Island to form a tolerable port, being protected from the
north-east by one of the group, distant about three miles, from which a reef extends to the
West-North-West, leaving the mouth of the harbour exposed only between North-West by North
and West-North-West. Our observations placed the centre of the sandy beach on the north-east
side of the island in latitude 20 degrees 37 minutes 47 seconds South and longitude 2 degrees
0 minutes 20 seconds West of Swan River, variation 2 degrees westerly; and the time of high-water,
at the full and change, at half past ten, when the tide rose 15 feet, but only 5 during neaps.

NEW BIRD AND KANGAROO.

Although Depuch Island had been visited before, there still remained something quite new to
reward the diligent search that was made after objects of natural history: namely, a small
kind of kangaroo, a land bird, and a shell, a species of Helix. The bird was shot by Mr. Bynoe;
it was a finch,* and beautifully marked with stripes of crimson down the breast, on a black
ground with white spots; the throat, and a patch round the stump of the tail, were crimson.
It is remarkable that all the beauty and brilliancy of colour in this bird is underneath, the
back being of a common earthy brown.

(*Footnote. Named by Mr. Gould from this specimen, Emblema picta.)

The kangaroo I had myself the good fortune to knock over on the summit of the island; it was
the only one shot during many an excursion made over that dreary heap of desolation, the metallic
sound the rocks yielded to our step giving ample warning of our approach to their quick ears.
The colours of this specimen, the prettiest we had seen, were a dark grey, with a large angular
patch of white down the side, extending from the top of the shoulders nearly to the hips. Down
the centre of the back, ran a streak of black, which was also the colour of the extremity of
its slightly bushy tail. The face and belly were likewise darker than other parts of the body,
and the feet were black and well cushioned, giving it a firm hold of the rocks over which it
bounded with surprising agility, through it never ran very far, always popping into the cavities
caused by the loose manner in which the blocks forming the island are thrown together.*

(*Footnote. Mr. Gould has figured an animal very like this I have described, as Petrogale lateralis,
or the Stripe-Sided Rock Wallaby, from a specimen he some time afterwards got from Western
Australia; but he has not noticed the beautiful kangaroo of Depuch Island.)

The specimen of the species of Helix I have above mentioned was found by Mr. Dring, one of
our most successful collectors in that department. In the Appendix are figured some of the
new shells discovered during the voyage.

Leaving Depuch Island, we examined the coast to the eastward as far as the Turtle Isles, a
distance of eighty-five miles, the first twenty-seven of which trended North 55 degrees East,
and the remainder North 67 degrees East curving slightly inwards. As the French had obtained
a distant view of this coast, it did not possess to us the interest of being a new portion
of the continent.

EFFECTS OF MIRAGE.

Still the effect of the treacherous mirage, which has often deluded the way-worn thirsty traveller
with the false appearance of water, raised many parts of the interior that had not before met
the eye of an European. These presented a very level outline. The interior was, for a great
distance, a vast plain, so low that we could scarcely see it from the ship's masthead over
the sandhills, which did not exceed the height of 40 feet. Six or seven miles from the Turtle
Isles this extensive level was interrupted by the presence of a group of hills, from 200 to
300 feet in elevation, apparently of the same character as the heights behind Depuch Island.
As seen through the medium of mirage, they often had a most curious appearance: high continuous
ranges, changing again to lofty islands, danced in the tremulous air. I should remark that
when the land was subject to this distortion, it was always during the forenoon, and on those
days the winds were invariably light.

APPEARANCE OF THE COAST.

The shore, for nearly fifteen miles from Depuch Island is very low, lined with mangroves, and
intersected by creeks, which at high-water, when the tide rises sometimes 18 feet, are of some
magnitude, and inundate much of the low land, leaving large portions of it whitened by a salt
incrustation. Beyond, as far as the Turtle Isles, the coast is fronted with a ridge of sandhills,
scantily covered with vegetation (the highest, as I have already said, rarely exceeding an
elevation of 40 feet) forming a barrier between the sea and the low lands behind, which, from
the masthead, appeared to be thickly covered with small trees, and slightly raised from three
to seven miles from the coast. Several of the natives showed themselves at a distance, and
from the numerous fires, it appeared to be a well inhabited part of the continent. Still we
saw no appearance of a stream of fresh water; and, though there were several creeks, the only
opening of any consequence was forty-three miles from Depuch Island. From its abounding with
oysters we named it Oyster Inlet. Across the mouth of it lies an islet, just within the north-eastern
end of which there was a sufficient depth for the Beagle. The formation of the island was a
reddish porous sandstone. At a native fire-place I found a piece of quartz and a large pearl
oyster-shell. The tide rose here 15 feet near full moon.

THE GEOGRAPHE SHOALS.

The only outlying dangers on this extent of coast were the Geographe Shoals, two rocky patches
some distance from each other. The outer one was thirteen miles from the main, and bore North
22 degrees East twenty-three miles from Depuch Island.

TURTLE ISLANDS.

The shore fronting the north Turtle Island projects, leaving a space of only ten miles between,
of which, on account of the shoals, only a small portion lying near the island is navigable.
Nearly opposite the latter is another opening, of some extent at high-water; but from the impediments
that offered to our examining it, we named it Breaker Inlet. During spring tides it must carry
a large body of water over the very low land it intersects.

The South Turtle Isle is a mere bank of sand and white coral; the northern is about half a
mile across, of the same formation precisely as the low isles of Forestier Group. It is fronted
on all sides with a coral reef extending off from a mile to a mile and a half, which dries
at low-water, leaving an abrupt wall of from two to three feet at the outer edge, with pools
between it and the island, in which several luckless turtles, who had deferred leaving until
too late, were found. Though we only took what was required for our own consumption, the number
that could have been here obtained was enormous.

In the course of four hours thirty green turtles were brought on board, one of which, and not
the largest, weighed 385 pounds. A small hawk's bill, the first and only one seen, was also
taken. On this part of the coast grows a peculiar small kind of weed, on which they feed; it
was first seen near Depuch Island. I have been informed that the turtles at Ascension Island,
when fresh caught, have a large ball of a curious kind of weed in their stomach, and that as
soon as it is consumed, they become watery and lose their flavour. Though many diligent inquiries
have been made after this weed, it appears to be still unknown.

A sandhill on the south-east end of the North Isle our observations placed in latitude 19 degrees
53 minutes 48 seconds South, and longitude 3 degrees 09 minutes 10 seconds East of Swan River;
variation 1 degree 0 minutes westerly. The tide ran between the island and the shore nearly
two knots an hour; the flood stream came from the north-west; and the rise at springs was 18
feet, the time of high-water being 11 o'clock.

SEARCH FOR WATER.

A fruitless attempt was made to procure water on this island, by digging; and as we were now
reduced to a supply for only ten days, it became necessary that we should immediately proceed
to Timor in search of some. This was much to be regretted at the present moment, as the coast
to the east had never been seen, and therefore possessed the charm of being a new part of the
continent. We consoled ourselves for not being able to visit it by the reflection that it would
hold out some inducement for us to return to this land of sterility.

On Turtle Island was found a broken jar, probably left by some of the Macassar people, who
are occasionally blown in upon this part of the coast.

July 14.

The unusual fogs that had prevailed for three days dispersing, allowed us to leave our anchorage
under the south-east side of North Turtle Isle, and soon after dark we occupied another near
Bedout Island, having crossed some rocky ledges of seven fathoms on the way. When the Beagle
was midway between these islands, they were both visible from the masthead. In the night, and
during the early part of next day, it blew strong from south-east, causing a high-topping sea.
Time being precious, we could not wait for a quiet day to land on Bedout; its position was
therefore determined by observations with the sea horizon, and differs very materially from
that given by the French.

We weighed early in the afternoon of the 15th, and passed round the north-west end of Bedout,
where there is much uneven ground with ripplings. We carried soundings until abreast of the
north end of Rowley Shoals and twenty-five miles from their inner side, in from 45 to 154 fathoms.
These shoals, like the Abrolhos, appear to stand on the outer edge of a bank projecting off
this portion of the coast, as we did not get bottom after leaving their parallel.

On the 20th, in the afternoon, we passed, having no soundings with 200 fathoms, along the western
side of Scott's Reef, at the distance of three miles, and determined its position. It forms
a large lagoon, with an opening, not appearing to be a ship passage, midway on its western
side; marked by a dry bank just within it, in latitude 14 degrees 3 minutes 30 seconds South
and longitude 6 degrees 4 minutes 45 seconds East of Swan River. The eastern extreme of the
reef was not seen; the southern limit is in latitude 14 degrees 15 minutes South; and the north-west
extreme being in 13 degrees 55 minutes South, and longitude 6 degrees 2 minutes East of Swan
River, gives it an extent of twenty miles in a north and south direction.

SCOTT'S REEF.

Captain Owen Stanley, in March, 1840, discovered a shoal about sixteen miles to the North-North-East
of Scott's Reef; he considered its extent from east to west to be about five miles; but from
the masthead the south end of it could not be seen. It did not appear to have more than two
or three feet water on it. The north point, Captain Stanley places in latitude 13 degrees 39
minutes South, longitude 121 degrees 56 minutes East; or 6 degrees 11 minutes East of Swan River.*

(*Footnote. This reef was seen by the Seringapatam merchant ship in 1842.)

We now began to feel a westerly current, which increased to a knot and a half as we got near
Rottee; the winds being moderate, between East and East-South-East.

PULO DOUW.

July 23.

The weather was hazy: the high land of Rottee was seen in the forenoon, the highest part of
the island, a rather pointed hill, bearing North 60 degrees East. At 1 P.M. we saw Pulo Douw,
which we endeavoured to weather, but the current prevented us. It is a remarkable island, with
a gap in the centre and a clump of trees, that looks like a sail when first seen, on the north-west
end, which terminates in a low sandy point. This is also the case with the south-east extreme,
off which a reef extends for about half a mile; indeed, there appeared to be no ship passage
between the sandy islets that lie to the east of Pulo Douw and Rottee. We rounded the north-west
end of the former at the distance of a mile and a half, passing through some heavy ripplings,
apparently an eddy setting to the north-east round the island. Pulo Douw appeared to be thickly
inhabited, and was encircled by a reef, except at its North-North-West point, where there is
a cliffy projection. Angles were taken for fixing the position of the islets between Pulo Douw
and Rottee, which we found to be wrongly placed. The Scotch Bonnet, a remarkable rocky lump,
seen over the south-west end of Rottee, and in line with the south side of Pulo Douw, bore
South 60 degrees East. During the night we had a fresh wind from East-South-East and sailed
through several ripplings, our first entering suddenly upon which caused some anxiety, though
the lead gave no bottom with 60 and 70 fathoms. We passed some distance from the western end
of Samow Island in the morning; but the high peaks of Timor were not seen till near noon. The
eager eyes of the native whom we had brought with us from Swan River were the first to descry
them; and he exclaimed in tones of rapturous astonishment, "Land! big fella! all the same cloud!"
I shall not easily forget the amazement of this savage, accustomed as he was to behold the
level plains of his native land, when he saw, towering in alpine grandeur to the sky, the pinnacled
heights of Timor. He seemed scarcely able to conceive, even when assured by the evidence of
his own senses, that it was possible for mountains to be so high and ranges so vast as those
that now developed themselves before him.

REACH TIMOR.

In crossing the mouth of Coepang Bay towards Samow, in the evening, the appearance was truly
grand. A vast heap of vapour was slowly moving across the mountains, disclosing at intervals
their jagged summits towering towards the sky, and occasionally allowing the eye to penetrate
for a moment into the depths of mysterious valleys that seemed to stretch for unknown distances
into the recesses of the great Timoree Range. Some wild flying clouds that rapidly traversed
the heavens imparted a curious alternation of light and shadow to the lowlands that presented
themselves to our view--chequering the whole with gloomy patches and light spots, and revealing
or hiding in rapid succession the extensive woods and the patches of cultivation that lay within
the bosom of the Bay. The dazzling white sand beaches, too, strongly marked by the dark blue
sea, heightened the beauty of the scene; which to us, who had for some months seen nothing
but the monotonous north-west coast of Australia, appeared truly enchanting.

During the first watch we beat up the bay, and at midnight anchored; the barking of dogs, the
crowing of cocks, and the tolling of bells assuring us that we were once again in the vicinity
of civilization. In the morning we found ourselves off the town of Coepang, when we shifted
our berth farther in; the flagstaff of Fort Concordia bearing south a quarter of a mile.

SWAN RIVER NATIVE.

Our Swan River native came up to me after we had anchored, dressed in his best, shoes polished,
and buttoned up to the chin in an old uniform jacket. "Look," said he, pointing to some Malay
lads alongside in a canoe, "trousers no got 'um." A toss of the head supplied what was wanting
to the completeness of this speech, and said as plainly as words could have done, "poor wretches!"
I tried in vain to point out their superiority, by saying, "Malay boy, work, have house; Swan
River boy, no work, bush walk." I then drew his attention to the country, the delicious fruits
and other good things to eat (knowing that the surest road to an Australian's heart is through
his mouth) but all was in vain! my simple friend shook his head, saying, "No good, stone, rock
big fella, too much, can't walk." Home, after all, is home all the world over, and the dull
arid shores of Australia were more beautiful in the eyes of this savage than the romantic scenery
of Timor, which excited in him wonder not delight. It was amusing to see how frightened he
was on going ashore the first time. With difficulty could he be kept from treading on our heels,
always, I suppose, being in the habit, in his own country, of finding strangers to be enemies.
He was instantly recognised by the Malays, who had occasionally seen natives of Australia returning
with the Macassar proas from the north coast, as a marega,* much to his annoyance.

(*Footnote. I have never been able to learn the meaning of this word. They told us at Coepang
it signified man-eater; which explains the native's annoyance; and may serve as a clue to the
discovery that the aborigines of the northern part of the continent occasionally eat human
bodies as they do in the south.)

LAND AT COEPANG.

Being anxious to make the acquaintance of the Resident, who bore the reputation of being a
most intelligent person, a party of us paid him a visit the second day after our arrival. The
narrow streets, lined with Chinese shops and pedlars of every description, from the long-tailed
Chinaman to the thick, crisp-haired, athletic Timoree, were soon passed. We then entered a
rich green valley, with some fine houses on the left: the sight was strange and new to us in
every way. What we most enjoyed was the vegetation--a feast for our eyes, after the dull arid
shores of North-western Australia: and we gazed with intense pleasure on the rich green spreading
leaf of the banana and other tropical fruit-trees, above which towered, the graceful coconut.
Is it possible, thought I, that Timor and Australia, so different in the character of their
scenery, can be such near neighbours, that these luxuriant valleys, nestling among the roots
of these gigantic hills, are only separated by a narrow expanse of sea from those shores over
which nature has strewed, with so niggard a hand, a soil capable of bearing the productions
characteristic of the latitudes within which they lie?

A meagre-looking apology for a soldier, leaning against a tree, suggested to us that we must
be near the Resident's dwelling: we were so. It soon appeared that it was the last of the large
houses before mentioned, and that the soldier was the sentinel.

VISIT THE RESIDENT.

We were speedily ushered into the presence of D.T. Vanden Dungen Gronovius. What sort of person,
reader, do you picture to yourself with such a name? Great of course; and in truth such was
he, not only in height and bulk, but as he soon informed us, in deeds likewise; he talked fast,
and smoked faster, and possessed a general knowledge of all the recent discoveries. We learned
from him that the Zelee and Astrolabe were laid on their beam ends for twenty-four hours in
the hurricane of last November, when the Pelorus was lost at Port Essington. After listening
to some strange and amusing stories about Borneo, where the Resident had been Superintendent
for twelve years, we took our leave. I was glad to find that Mr. Gronovius entertained views
more liberal than Dutchmen generally do. He had, as he told me, written to the Governor-General
at Batavia, requesting that Coepang might be made a free port, and emigration allowed. He most
kindly offered us horses and guides for riding or shooting.

FORT CONCORDIA.

The observations for latitude, longitude, etc. were made in Fort Concordia,* near the flagstaff.
I was surprised to find this fort so much out of repair; the only guns fit to be fired out
of were two brass six-pounders, the carriages indeed of which were not trustworthy. On these
guns I noticed the same mark as on that we found at Houtman's Abrolhos, namely, two sides of
a triangle bisecting two small circles. I never see an old fort without thinking of the anecdote
of a party from the Beagle visiting one at Valdivia on the west coast of South America. The
guns were very much out of repair, and when the remark was made to the old Spaniard who showed
the fort, that they would not bear to be fired out of ONCE, with a shrug of his shoulders he
replied that he thought they would bear it TWICE! But to return to Fort Concordia: it stands
on a madreporic rocky eminence, about 60 feet in elevation, commanding the straggling town
of Coepang, which, certainly, from the anchorage** does not impress the stranger with a favourable
opinion of the industry of its inhabitants, though it improves in proportion as you retreat
from the beach. The foot of the height on which the fort stands is washed by a small rapid
stream that skirts the south side of the town. Its course from the eastward is marked by a
deep gorge, on the sides of which a stranger might feast his eyes on the riches of tropical
scenery. Here and there above the mass of humbler vegetation, a lofty tapering coconut tree
would rear its graceful form, bowing gently in the passing breeze. On every hill was presented
the contrast of redundant natural verdure, clothing its sides and summit, and of cultivated
fields along the lower slopes. These by irrigation are turned into paddy plantations, the winds
blowing over which give rise to those insidious fevers, intermittent, I am told, in their character,
which are so prevalent at Coepang, as well as dysentery, from which indeed the crew of the
Beagle afterwards suffered.

(*Footnote. Latitude 10 degrees 10 minutes 11 seconds South, and longitude 9 degrees 50 minutes
00 seconds West of Swan River.)

(**Footnote. See the view annexed.)

DUTCH MILITARY FORCE.

The whole force the Dutch have at Coepang is sixty soldiers, half of whom, too, are Javanese.
Yet the subjection in which this small force keeps the natives, is beyond belief. A sergeant
is the commandant at Rottee, and such power has he over the inhabitants, that he can at any
time raise a thousand armed men in the course of a few hours. Many of the largest ponies used
at Coepang, are brought from Rottee. Their origin no one could give me any information about;
all agree in saying they were found with the island, and the natives have no traditions.

THE RESIDENT'S TALES.

My second visit to the Resident was for the purpose of accepting his offer of a guide, and
of making arrangements for a day's shooting. I found him as usual, sitting smoking in a large
cool room. We were soon in the interior of Borneo, the scene of his former exploits. Some of
these were of so sanguinary a character, that they do him very little credit; and many of his
tales partook of the marvellous. Among the Dyaks, natives of the interior, it is a custom,
he said, that when a man wishes to marry, he must produce a certain number of human heads.
He related that he had once seen a very handsome young woman, to whom a number of heads had
been delivered, swimming about in some water, and playing with them. At another time he averred
that he saw a woman mix human brains with water and drink it! Mr. Gronovius also informed me
that the land on the western sides both of Timor and Borneo was gaining on the sea, particularly
at the latter place; and a report prevailed that on some of the elevated parts of the former
chama shells had been found. In answer to my inquiries about earthquakes, I was told that,
only the last month the island of Ternate in 0 degrees 50 minutes North had been visited by
one, which had thrown down all the houses, and that in 1690, the town of Coepang had also been
destroyed. From the Resident also, I received accounts of three ports in Rottee, one on the
north-west side, another on the south-east, and a third, on the north-east, opening into Rottee
Strait.

THE TIMOREES.

Among the fresh information gained from Mr. Gronovius during this visit, was an account of
the natives of Timor called Timorees. They are very superstitious, and when a person of consequence
dies, a number of karabows (buffaloes) pigs, and ponies are killed and placed over his grave,
as an offering to the evil spirit. Some, in case of sickness, imagine, that by eating a whole
buffalo, even the horns and hoofs, by degrees, they can appease the anger of the demon to whom
they attribute all their misfortunes.

Many of the Timorees have really handsome features, strikingly different from the Malays. Their
hair, which is neither woolly nor straight, but crisp, and full of small waves, is worn long
behind, and kept together by a curiously formed comb. There is altogether a degree of wildness
in their appearance that ill accords with their situation; for nearly all the Timorees in Coepang
are slaves sold by the Rajahs of the different districts, the value of a young man being fifty
pounds.

A powerful Rajah, commonly called the Emperor of Timor, visited Coepang during our stay there.
Unfortunately we all missed seeing him. He was attended by a large and well-armed guard, and
appeared to be on very good terms with the merchants of the place, who made him several presents,
no doubt through interested motives; probably he supplies them with slaves. His character is
notoriously bad; it was only the other day that he had one of his wives cut to pieces, for
some very trifling offence.

A SHOOTING EXCURSION.

On taking my leave of the Resident, I fixed the day for our shooting excursion. We were to
go to a place called Pritie, on the northern shore of Babao Bay, and distant some fifteen miles
from the ship, which rendered it necessary therefore to make an early start.

Daylight on Monday morning accordingly found us on the northern shore of the bay, but we soon
ascertained that our guide knew very little about the matter; and what was still worse, there
was no getting near the shore, a bank of soft mud fronting it for some distance, at this time
of tide, and particularly in the vague direction our guide gave us of Pritie. The day was fast
advancing; so we made our way back to a cliffy projection we had passed before light, where,
after some difficulty, we got on shore. Whilst the breakfast was cooking, I made a sketch of
the bay, and took a round of angles, all the charts and plans I had seen being very erroneous.

