The work of M. Gerusez, "History of French Literature from its Origin to the Devolution,"[E]
although it had the honor of being considered worthy of the prix Gobert by the French Academy,
is far from satisfying the requirements of general literary history. It may rather be considered
a systematic series of essays, beginning with the "Chansons de Geste," analyzing several poems
of the cycle of Charlemagne, and followed by successive independent chapters on the Middle
Ages, the revival of letters, and modern times down to the Revolution. It will be remembered
that in 1859 M. Gerusez published a "History of Literature during the French Revolution, 1789-1800."
This also obtained a prize from the Academy,--much more deservedly, we think, than the last
production, when we consider the interest he cast over the literary efforts of a period much
more marked by action than by artistic productiveness of any kind. The German writer Schmidt-Weiszenfels
in the same year issued a work with the pretentious title, "History of the Revolution-Literature
of France."[F] This is little more than a declamatory production, wanting in what is most characteristic
of the German mind, original research. The "Literary History of the National Convention," [G]
by E. Maron, is devoted more to politics than to letters.

[Footnote E: Histoire de la Littérature Française, depuis ses Origines jusqu'à la Revolution.
Par Eugène Gerusez. Paris: Didier et Cie. 2 vols. 8vo. pp. 488, 507.]

[Footnote F: Geschichte der Französischen Revolutions-Literatur, 1789-1795. Von Schmidt-Weiszenfels.
Prague: Kober und Markgraf. 8vo. pp. 395.]

[Footnote G: Histoire Littéraire de la Convention Nationale. Par Eugène Maron. Paris: Poulet-Malassis
et De Boise. 12mo. pp. 359.]

To return to the volumes of M. Gerusez. It is rather a sign of poverty in general literary
history, that detached sketches, with little connection beyond their chronological order, should
have been deemed worthy of the prize and the praises awarded to them. However, though lacking
in comprehensive views such as we have a right to expect from an author who attempts to portray
the rise, growth, and full expansion of a literature, the work of M. Gerusez may be perused
with pleasure and profit by the student. It is clear and satisfactory in the details. Thus,
the pages devoted to the writers of the "Encyclopédie," though few, may vie with any that have
been written to set in their true light men whose influence was so great on the generation
that succeeded them. If impartiality consisted in always steering in the juste-milieu, M. Gerusez
would be the most impartial of historians. As it is, we have to thank him for a good book,
regretting only that he has gone no farther.

Far otherwise is it with M. Saint-Marc Girardin. The eloquent Sorbonne professor has seen his
fame increase with every new volume of his "Course of Dramatic Literature." We have now the
fourth volume.[H] "A Course of Dramatic Literature";--it is more. It is the history of the
expression of Passion among the ancients and the moderns, by no means confined to the drama.
The present volume, as well as the third, published several years ago, is devoted to the analysis
of Love as expressed in different ages and by different nations, under the two divisions of
L'Amour Ingénu and L'Amour Conjugal.

[Footnote H: Cours de Littérature Dramatique. Par Saint-Marc Girardin, de l'Académie Française,
Professeur à la Faculté des Lettres de Paris, Membre du Conseil Impérial de l'Instruction Publique.
Tome IV. Paris: Charpentier.]

The first he had studied in the authors of antiquity in his third volume, beginning in this
with the episode of Cupid and Psyche in Apuleius; then following up, through the moderns, the
expression of Ingenuous Love in Corneille, La Fontaine, Sédaine, Bernardin de Saint-Pierre,
Milton, Gessner, Voss, André Chénier, and Chateaubriand. For the last he finds more blame than
praise. Indeed, this effect-seeking writer, with all his genius, seemed less fitted than any
one to express the natural and spontaneous. His Atala, who charms us so at the first reading,
deals in studied emotions. As to René, his is the vain sentimentality parading its own impotency
for higher feelings, a virtual boasting of want of soul,--the sickly dissatisfaction of Werther,
without his passion for an excuse. M. Saint-Marc Girardin then follows up his subject through
later authors, even in Madame George Sand and in Madame Émile de Girardin. He is particularly
severe upon Lamartine, that poet "who for more than thirty years seemed best to express love
as our century understands it," but who in Raphael and Graziella destroyed, by disclosing too
much, the power of his "Méditations Poétiques."

On Conjugal Love the classic models are first consulted,--Oenone, Evadne, Medea,--these characters
being followed through the delineation of modern dramatists. We know of no more exquisite criticism
than the pages devoted to Griseldis. Analyzing the accounts of Boccaccio, Chaucer, and Perault,
our author concludes with the play of "Munck Bellinghausen." The last chapters, on "Love and
Duty," are among the most eloquently written in the volume. For style, M. Saint-Marc Girardin
is second to no living author of France.

In this course we find an evident predilection for the models of antiquity. When a comparison
is instituted between the ancients and the moderns, we feel pretty certain of the result before
the writer has proceeded very far. Not that we ever find a systematic idolizing of all that
is classic merely. Far from it. Modern writers are not neglected. In this particular a genuine
service is done to critical literature. It often seems as if literary lecturers and historians
were attacked by an aesthetic presbyopy. For them the present age never produces anything worth
even a passing remark. The masterpieces they notice must be old and time-honored. Not so in
the present studies on the passions. Ponsard finds his place side by side with older names.
After an appreciative notice of the Lucretia of Livy, we find a comment on the Lucretia which
may have been played the week before at the Théâtre Français. Nor is it a slight service done
to contemporary letters, when a master-critic turns his thoughts to works which, if they do
not hold the first rank, yet, by the talent of their authors and the nature of their subjects,
have attracted all eyes for a time. Such are the writings of Madame George Sand. Of these,
"André," "La Mare au Diable," and "La Petite Fadette" are reviewed with praise in the work
under consideration, while the force of criticism is expended on "Indiana," "Lelia," and "Jacques."

       *       *       *       *       *

Whatever claims the academician Victor de Laprade may have to poetic talent, he certainly sinks
below mediocrity when he attempts to discuss the principles of the art he practises. Since
it has been his good-fortune to be numbered among the illustrious Forty he has several times
attempted literary criticism, but never so extensively as in his last work, "Questions d'Art
et de Morale."[I] This is a series of discursive essays, a few upon art in general, the greater
part, however, restricted to letters; the whole written in a poetic prose not without a certain
charm, but wearisome for continuous reading.

[Footnote I: Questions d'Art et de Morale. Par Victor de Laprade, de l'Académie Française.
Paris: Didier et Cie. 8vo.]

The object of M. de Laprade is to defend what he calls "Spiritualism in Art." He wages an unrelenting
war against the modern school of Realism. It is not the representation of visible Nature that
the artist must seek; his aim must be "the representation of the invisible." He grows eloquent
when he develops his favorite theories, and always succeeds in interesting when he applies
them successively to all the arts. As to the author's political opinions, he takes no pains
to conceal them. His work is an outcry against equality and universal suffrage. He traces the
apathy of poetic creativeness in France to the sovereignty usurped everywhere "by the inferior
elements of intelligence in the State." He seems to think, that, as humanity grows older, art
falls from its divine ideal. Of contemporary architecture, he says that it can produce nothing
original save railroad depots and crystal palaces. "A glass architecture is the only one that
fully belongs to our age." Music, the "vaguest and most sensuous of all the arts," he regards
as the art of the present. The religious worship of the future appears to him "a symphony with
a thousand instruments executed under a dome of glass."

As to the purely literary essays of M. de Laprade, they may be read both with more pleasure
and more profit than those in which he attempts to discuss the principles of aesthetics. "French
Tradition in Literature," and "Poetry, and Industrialism," are full of suggestive thoughts,
and, coming in the latter half of the volume, make us forget the pretentious nature of the first.

       *       *       *       *       *

M. Gustave Merlet is a more modest opponent of some of the tendencies of the age. He presents
his first book to the public under the title, "Réalisme et Fantaisie,"[J] earnestly and loyally
attacking the two extremes of literature.

[Footnote J: Le Réalisme et la Fantaisie dans la Littérature. Par Gustave Merlet. Paris: Didier
et Cie. 12mo. pp. 431.]

Two styles of writing, diametrically opposed in every particular, have of late years flourished
in the lighter productions of France. Some there are who would seek to incarnate in letters
Nature as it is, without adornings, without ideal additions. The cry of the upholders of this
doctrine is: Truth in art, war against the freaks of the imagination that colors all in unreal
tints. The writers who have adopted such sentiments have been termed "Realists," much to their
dissatisfaction. Balzac was the greatest of them. Champfleury may be called the most strenuous
supporter of the system. There is a certain force, a false air of truth, in this daguerreotype
process of writing, that seduces at first sight. When a man of some genius, as Gustave Flaubert
in "Madame Bovary," undertakes to paint Nature, he sets details otherwise revolting in such
relief that the very novelty and boldness of the attempt put us off our guard, and we are in
danger of admitting as beauties what, after all, are only audacities.

The other extreme into which the literature of the day in France has fallen is an excess of
fancy. A writer like Arsène Houssaye will write his "King Voltaire" or his "Madame de Pompadour,"
or Capefigue his "Madame de la Vallière," in which the judgment seems to have been set aside,
and historical facts accumulated in some opium-dream are strangely woven into a narrative representing
reality, with about as much truth as Oriental arabesques, or the adornings of richly wrought
tapestry. This extreme is even more dangerous than the former, for it makes of letters a mere
plaything, and recommends itself to many by its very faults. Paradox and overdrawn scenes usurp
the place of the real. The world presented by the exclusive worshippers of fancy is little
better than that "Pompadour" style of painting in which the carnation-tipped checks of shepherds
and shepherdesses take the place of a too healthy Rubens-like portraiture. There are dainty,
well-trimmed lambs, with pretty blue favors tied about their necks, just like dragées and bonbons.
As we wander among those opera-swains in silk hose and those shepherdesses in satin bodices,
their perfumes tire and nauseate, till we fairly wish for a good breeze wafted from some farm-yard,
reconciled in a measure to the extravagances of the so-called "school of Nature."

M. Merlet's subject, it may be seen, is of interest merely to the student of the latest French
literature. A more comprehensive study would not have been out of place in his volume. To those
who may be interested in writers like Murger, Feydeau, Houssaye, and Brifaut, the book is full
of interesting matter. To the general reader it may be of value as characterizing with fidelity
some of the tendencies of French thought.

       *       *       *       *       *

We must not omit mentioning a work published in Germany on the "Literature of the Second Empire
since the Coup d'État of the Second of December, 1852."[K] The nature of this sketch could
almost be predicated with certainty from the state of feeling towards France in the capital
in which it was issued, and the encomiums it received from the Prussian political press. The
author, William Reymond, who has proved himself no mean critic in some of his former essays
upon the modern productions of France, addresses himself almost exclusively to a German public.
His work, as he himself seemed to fear, is not calculated for the taste of Paris, even if it
were considered unobjectionable there on the score of the political strictures that are introduced,
whether in the discussion of the last play or in the analysis of the last volume of poems.

[Footnote K: Études sur la Littérature du Second Empire Français, depuis le Coup d'État du
deux Decembre. Par William Reymond. Berlin: A. Charisius. 12mo. pp. 227.]

The truth is, M. Reymond, with much apparent praise, very nearly comes to the conclusion that
the second Empire has no literature, and very little philosophy is granted to it in the chapter,
"What remains of Philosophy in France." The Novel and the Theatre fare little better at his
hands. He has literally made a police investigation of what is most objectionable in French
letters, citing now and then some great name, but dwelling with complacency on what is deserving
of censure. The influence of France, and of Paris in particular, on the tastes of the Continent,
irritates him. He seeks to impress upon his readers the venality of letters and the general
debasement of character and of talent that are prevalent in that capital. Such is the spirit
of these "Études." The author has, unfortunately, not to seek far for a practical corroboration
of his theory, though it is but justice to say that the verses he quotes as characteristic
are far from being so. It is to be feared that M. Reymond has rather sought out the blemishes.
He has found many, we admit. His readers will thank him for his clever exposition of them,
satisfied in many cases to accept the results he presents, without feeling inclined to make
such a personal investigation into the lower regions of letters.

       *       *       *       *       *

"The Political and Literary History of the Press in France,"[L] by Eugene Hatin, is now concluded.
As early as 1846, this author published a small work, "Histoire du Journal en France." Since
that time he has devoted himself exclusively to the study of French journalism. Though liberal
in his views, he is not in favor of unlimited liberty of the press. He believes it to be the
interest of society that a curb should be put on its excesses. "What we must hope for is a
liberty that may have full power for good, but not for evil."

[Footnote L: Histoire Politique et Littéraire de la Presse en France. Avec une Introduction
Historique sur les Origines du Journal et la Bibliographie Générale des Journaux, depuis leur
Origine. Par Eugène Hatin. Paris: Poulet-Malassis et De Boise. 8 vols. 12mo.]

The two volumes published in 1861 contain the history of journalism during the latter part
of the French Revolution, under the first Empire, the Restoration, and the Government of July.
The work may be said to conclude with 1848, as less than twenty pages are devoted to the twelve
years following. In this, however, the writer has done all he could be expected to do. This
is no time for the candid historian to utter his thoughts of the present régime in France.
Since the fatal decree of the 17th of February, 1852, the press has had only so much of life
as the present sovereign has thought fit to grant it. Then it was that a representative of
the people uttered the words,--"We must overthrow the press, as we have overthrown the barricades."
Such were the sentiments of the National Assembly,--not understanding, that, when it struck
at such an ally, it destroyed itself. And, indeed, it was but a short time before the tribune
shared the fate of journalism. Better things had been hoped on the accession of the present
Minister of the Interior, but as yet they have not been realized.

RECENT AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS

RECEIVED BY THE EDITORS OF THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY.

The Soldier's Guide. A Complete Manual and Drill-Book for the Use of Volunteers and Militia.
Revised, corrected, and adapted to the Discipline of the Soldier of the Present Day. By an
Officer of the U.S. Army. Philadelphia. T.B. Peterson & Brothers. 16mo. paper, pp. 63. Revised
Edition, with Memoir. Boston and Cambridge. J. Munroe & Co. 16mo. pp. xxviii., 204. $1.00.

Young Benjamin Franklin; or, The Right Road through Life. A Boy's Book on a Boy's Own Subject.
By Henry Mayhew, Author of "The Peasant-Boy Philosopher," etc. With Illustrations by John Gilbert.
New York. Harper & Brothers. 16mo. pp. 561. $1.00.

The Stokesley Secret; or, How the Pig paid the Rent. By the Author of "The Heir of Redclyffe,"
etc. New York. D. Appleton & Co. 18mo. pp. 245. 50 cts.

Chinese and Indo-European Roots and Analogues. First Number. By Pliny Earle Chase, A.M. Philadelphia.
Butler & Co. 8vo. paper, pp. 48. Christmas Stories. In Two Volumes. New York. J.G. Gregory.
16mo. pp. 300, 300. $1.50.

Hickory Hall; or, The Outcast. A Romance of the Blue Ridge. By Mrs. Emma D.E.N. Southworth.
Philadelphia. T.B. Peterson & Brothers. 8vo. paper, pp. 136. By James W. Taylor. St. Paul.
J. Davenport. 8vo. paper, pp. 24. 10 cts.

A Treatise on Ordnance and Naval Gunnery. Compiled and arranged as a Text-Book for the U.S.
Naval Academy. By Lieutenant Edward Simpson, U.S. Navy. $4.00. I. Boston. Crosby & Nichols.
12mo. pp. 484. $1.25.

Dinah. New York. C. Scribner. 12mo. pp. 466. $1.25.

Tom Tiddler's Ground. Christmas and New-Year's Story for 1862. From "All the Year Round." 25 cts.

A Pedestrian Tour of Thirty-Seven Days in the Alps of Switzerland and Savoy. By Charles Henry
Jones. Reading, Pa. J.L. Getz. 18mo. paper. pp. 118. 25 cts.

Practical Christianity. A Treatise specially designed for Young Men. By John S.C. Abbott. New
York. Harper & Brothers. 16mo. pp. 302. 50 cts.

The Sutherlands. By the Author of "Rutledge." New York. G.W. Carleton. 12mo. pp. 474. $1.25.

Memoir of the Duchess of Orléans. By the Marquess de H. Together with Biographical Souvenirs
and Original Letters. Collected by Professor G.H. de Schubert. Translated from, the French.
Second Edition. New York. C. Scribner. 12mo. pp. 391. $1.00. New York. C. Scribner. 12mo. pp.
xiv., 298. 12mo. pp. 300. $1.00.

The National School for the Soldier. An Elementary Work on Military Tactics, in Question and
Answer. By Captain W.W. Van Ness. New York. G.W. Carleton. 24mo. pp. 75. 50 cts.

The Privilege of the Writ of Habeas Corpus under the Constitution. By Horace Binney. Philadelphia.
T.B. Pugh. 16mo. pp. 52. 25 cts.

