It is easy, perhaps, to be wise after the event. All information received by Corps Intelligence
indicated an imminent retreat by the enemy. On no other premises could an attack by so small
a force on so strong a position have been justified. One further principle of warfare, by no
means new, was justified to the hilt--no frontal attack should ever be attempted unless all
counter attack from a flank is impossible, or unless sufficient forces are available to render
such an attack an impracticability. The ultimate capture of the Hill necessitated nearly two
months' artillery preparation and the employment at intervals of two Brigades. Perhaps there
is one further illustration of the uncertainty of modern warfare in the history of Hill 65.
With that Hill in our hands, and later on the dominating position of Hill 70, all the tenets
of war would conclude that Lens would be completely untenable, and yet it was not until more
than a year afterwards that the enemy, in the last stages of the war, evacuated a town which
will, in the history of the Battalion and of the 46th Division, be for ever associated with
the fortunes of Hill 65.

On April 24th we went back into Brigade Support with Battalion Headquarters at the Red Mill,
and Companies billeted in cellars. Some readjustments had to be made the following day, when
Battalion Headquarters moved to cellars on the Lens Road. This spot seemed to be a favourite
target for a Whizz-bang, which fired straight down the road, and was responsible for many sprints
and much language at different times on the part of various members of Battalion Headquarters.

Three days later the Brigade was relieved by the 137th Brigade and moved into Divisional Reserve,
the Battalion proceeding to a delightful little spot known as Marqueffles Farm, nestling under
the wooded slopes of the Lorette Ridge. Here we were extremely comfortable, and on this and
a future occasion spent a most agreeable time, being especially fortunate in the matter of
weather. It was a stiff climb to the top of the ridge, at the Eastern edge of which were the
remains of Notre Dame de Lorette. This was the favourite spot of the Gipsy bomber, whose story
was told in Punch a few years ago:--

  "But most he loved to lie upon Lorette
    And, couched on cornflowers, gaze across the lines
  On Vimy Ridge--we had not Vimy yet--
    Pale Souchez's bones, and Lens among the mines.
  Till, eagle-like, with hoarse indignant shrieks.
    Gunners arose from some deep-delved lair.
  To chase the intruder from their sacred peaks
    And cast him down to Ablain-St. Nazaire."

Torrance on one occasion climbed the ridge with Col. Blackwall, and can testify that the view
from the top was worth the walk! It formed a perfectly ideal observation post, and we now understood
why the Hun had fought so strenuously to maintain a footing on the ridge.

The chief item whilst at rest was the reorganisation of C Company, which was practically non-existent.
Each of the other three Companies contributed a quota, the transfers including Sergt. Stokes,
from A Company, who was appointed Comp.-Sergt. Major. A little later Sergt. H. J. Wilson, who
for a long period had ably superintended the Battalion cooking arrangements, was appointed
Comp. Quarter-Master-Sergt., and was succeeded as Sergt.-Cook by Corpl. Bateman. In addition
to other casualties we had lost Lieut. G. Wright, who injured his knee up in the Riaumont sector
and was now invalided to England, whilst 2nd Lieut. White went to England for temporary duty
as a Bombing Instructor, and 2nd Lieut. Mitchell was appointed Adjutant of I Corps School.
Our strength was thus considerably reduced, whilst reinforcements at the moment were exactly nil.

On May 6th we relieved the 5th Lincolns in the left sub-sector of the left Brigade sector,
with Battalion Headquarters in the remnants of some mine galleries at the back of Hart's Crater,
just in front of Loos. There were only two Brigades of the Division in the line at this period,
and each Brigade went to each sector in turn. We always went into the left sub-sector of each
sector, relieving with the 7th Battalion. The trenches here were very bad, so shallow that
it was almost impossible to get round by day, and considerably overlooked by the enemy, particularly
from the tower of Fosse 14. Their names began with the letter N, the best known being "Nero,"
"Novel," "Netley," and "Nash." They were old Boche trenches taken in the recent advance. The
whole sector had a very desolate appearance and life was not pleasant there. The discomfort
was increased by the enormous number of wing bombs and rifle grenades and occasional deluges
of gas bombs and shells fired by the enemy, which in our first six-day tour there, caused us
39 casualties. This was followed by six days in support, when we lived in dug-outs in some
trenches between Loos and the famous Colliery slag heap, known as the "Double Crassier." Battalion
Headquarters were at an exceptionally fine dug-out known as "Elvaston Castle," which had been
dug by the 2nd Sherwood Foresters. Here, in addition to ordinary work, we amused ourselves
at times by cutting the vetches which were thriving on some parts of the area, and sending
them back for the transport animals. It was here also that a certain Padre was overheard one
day by the I-Tok, arranging for a funeral at Maroc, with the result that he was requested to
attend at Brigade Headquarters to explain his indiscretions.

After a short rest at Noeux-les-Mines, we went back to the Liévin sector again on May 25th
and took over the line from Fosse 9 and Cité-St. Théodore to just South of the Liévin-Lens
Road. Battalion Headquarters were at the corner house near the "Marble Arch" in Liévin. Here
the monotony of trench life was varied by long distance patrols, and an enemy raid on the night
of May 29/30th on our post at the junction of "Crocodile" Trench and the railway cutting, when
we lost two men captured, three killed and seven wounded. Casualties during the whole of this
period unfortunately were heavy and reinforcements few, one Officer, 2nd Lieut. H. C. Orton
and 36 men who joined in May, being our sole additions. We also lost Sergt. Burton, who had
done much excellent work as Signalling-Sergeant. He went for a Commission, and was succeeded
by Corpl. J. T. Templeman. Our strength at this period was so small that for some time Companies
had to be organised in three platoons instead of four. About the same time, much to the regret
of all those who had been privileged to serve under him at any time, during the long period
in which he so successfully commanded the Brigade, both in England and France, General Shipley
left for a tour of duty at home, and was succeeded by Brigadier-General G. G. S. Carey, C.B., R.A.

The first six days of June were spent in Brigade support in Liévin, at the end of which time
we went back into the line in front of Cité-St. Théodore, where the only excitements were the
pushing forward of advanced posts to help to protect the left flank of the 138th Brigade in
an attack on Fosse 3, and a number of long distance patrols in which Lieut. Martelli and his
Scouts always played a prominent part. After another short rest at Marqueffles Farm, where
on June 12th we won first prize for the best Transport turnout at the Brigade Horse Show, we
went back for a short tour in Brigade support in front of Loos on June 15th.

We had now fairly sampled most of the area and found little of it to our liking. Hart's Crater
sector was the most monotonous for both front line and support work, there being nothing but
trenches to live in. In Liévin sector, though the front line work was more interesting and
we had fairly comfortable billets when in support, the enemy shelled the town itself so incessantly
both with high explosive and gas, that one had to take more than ordinary precautions. Apart
from the fact that our own Division and the Canadians on the right were carrying out "stunts"
of one kind or other almost every day, provoking considerable retaliation, we had an immense
number of batteries tucked away amongst the houses in Liévin, and under almost every bank round
about it, besides many more or less in the open. The Boche located these batteries with considerable
accuracy, and from time to time literally rained shells (principally 5.9's) on to them, and
almost every day knocked out numbers of guns.

Many of the gardens in the area close behind the front line were now in full bearing and provided
a very welcome addition to our rations, and more than one has pleasant recollections of the
excellent dishes of early asparagus and stewed gooseberries gathered from the garden of Riaumont
Château. Strawberries, currants, gooseberries and rhubarb were also plentiful in Cité-St. Pierre.
Indeed the attractions of the first were too much for one greedy German, who was so much occupied
in filling his helmet with this luscious fruit that he walked into one of the outposts of the
6th Battalion. It is doubtful if he was allowed to reap the fruits of his labour, at any rate
when he eventually arrived at Battalion Headquarters both the helmet and the strawberries were
conspicuous by their absence!

The Transport and Quarter-Master's Stores were back in a very nice spot at Sains-en-Gohelle,
but their journeys to the line with rations and stores were almost as unpleasant as they could
be. In going to Liévin they usually got shelled with high explosive and at Loos with gas, and
it says much for the excellent way in which Capt. H. Kirby and Sergt. Blunt handled the Transport
on these occasions that they never failed to deliver the stores and had scarcely a single casualty.
For a short period in the Liévin sector, stores were sent up by light railway from Bully Grenay
or Aix Noulette.

The Higher Command all this time had the fixed idea that the enemy could be driven out of Lens,
and all the efforts of the 46th Division and of the Canadians on the right were concentrated
to bring this about. The idea was probably strengthened by the fact that fires and explosions
were observed almost daily in Lens itself, evidently due to the enemy's desire to leave as
little as possible in the event of his having to withdraw. Numerous small enterprises carried
out from time to time enabled some slight advance to be made, but towards the end of June operations
took place more frequently and on a larger scale.

The Canadians having just captured the Generating Station and the high ground around it, South
of the Souchez River, which overlooked the Boche positions about Fosse 3, the 138th Brigade
were ordered to attack the Fosse again on June 19th, and this time succeeded in taking it,
and on the night June 21/22nd, we relieved the 5th Leicesters in their new outpost line in
"Boot" and "Brick" trenches, having spent the last three days at Calonne, to which place we
had moved from the Loos area on June 18th. The two days spent there were two of the most unpleasant
in the history of the Battalion. All four Companies were in the line, there was little accommodation
or shelter, the enemy shelling and trench-mortaring were intense, and there was the constant
fear of a counter-attack from the right--altogether rather a nightmare. We were lucky in not
getting more casualties than we did; as it was we lost ten killed and 31 wounded in the two
days, during which we were attached in turn to the 138th and 137th Brigades. We were relieved
on the night June 23/24th and went back to Calonne. A Company had a particularly unpleasant
relief, as the enemy chose that time to send over a number of gas shells and trench mortars,
most of which fell amongst that Company, causing them several casualties.

On June 25th the 137th Brigade, with little or no trouble, at last occupied Hill 65, and the
same night we were again attached to that Brigade, and moved into Liévin, with Headquarters
at the Red Mill.

Here we got orders for working parties required for carrying and digging assembly trenches
at Cité-de-Riaumont for the 137th and 138th Brigades, who were to carry out further operations.
Company Commanders assembled at the Red Mill to get their orders for this work at the same
moment that the Boche had planned to shell a battery of our guns almost adjacent to it. Heavies
arrived in salvoes for some time; several direct hits were obtained on the guns, the ammunition
dump just behind it was hit and explosions continued for days. It caused considerable inconvenience
to Company Commanders and further entailed the hasty exit of Lieut. Tomlinson from the delightful
bathing pool which had been made in the stream adjoining the Mill. It was whilst out with one
of these working parties at Riaumont that Moffat Johnston, temporarily in command of B Company,
got badly knocked about by a shell and had to leave, the Company then being taken over by 2nd
Lieut. Day, Capt. Turner being away with the 46th Division Depôt Battalion. On the night of
June 27/28th we moved back to billets in Maroc. The following evening the 137th and 138th Brigades
made further progress in another successful attack, the Canadians also pushing on South of
the River Souchez, practically into the outskirts of Lens itself. At the same time the 6th
and 7th Battalions co-operated with considerable success North of the Lens-Liévin Road.

The Higher Authorities were now more convinced than ever that the Germans opposite us were
completely demoralised, and that with a small push we should capture Lens itself. Hasty plans
were accordingly devised, and, although we were now lamentably weak in numbers, it was resolved
to put the whole Division into a final effort on the morning of July 1st. The 137th and 138th
Brigades were to attack South of the Lens-Liévin Road and the 139th Brigade North of it. For
this attack the 2nd Sherwood Foresters and the 9th Norfolks from the 6th Division on our left
were attached to our Brigade. The assaulting Battalions were the 2nd, 5th and 6th Sherwood
Foresters. We were in support and late on June 30th moved into St. Pierre. A and D Companies
were attached to the 6th Battalion, A being now commanded by Capt. Andrews, who had recently
succeeded Capt. A. Hacking on the latter's appointment as Second-in-Command of the 5th Battalion.
This Company held the 6th Battalion left Company front, whilst D Company remained in support.
B Company were attached to the 2nd Battalion, but were not required until the following afternoon,
when they were taken up to "Crook Redoubt." Owing to casualties this Company came under the
command of Sergt. Cobb, who carried out his duties and looked after the Company during a rather
trying time in a most excellent manner. C Company were attached to the 5th Battalion and were
in support in "Cowden" Trench.

The attack was launched at dawn on July 1st and part of the objective taken, but an enemy-counter
attack found our men too weak to hold the position, and apart from a small portion in the neighbourhood
of Crocodile Trench, the ground gained had to be evacuated. The 137th and 138th Brigades on
the right met with no greater success and Lens remained in the hands of the enemy. July 1st
is not a lucky day in the history of the 46th Division.

We remained in St. Pierre, with some Companies still detached, until the night of July 3/4th,
when we were relieved by the 23rd and 27th Canadian Battalions, and went back to the Square
at Bully Grenay, where 'buses picked us up soon after dawn on July 4th, and took us back to
the delightful little village of Chelers.

In spite of considerable shelling our casualties during the last few days had only been two
Officers (Day and Hammond) and four men wounded. Our total casualties during the Lens operations
amounted to five Officers wounded, three missing, 42 other ranks killed, 180 wounded, and 72
missing.

The whole history of the Lens operations proves, if proof were needed, how important a part
intelligence plays in modern operations. Intelligence is gained by reconnaissance by land or
from the air, and from information from prisoners and captured documents. The responsibility
of the Officer, who must judge the truth from what must often be conflicting reports from these
sources, is serious indeed. On his appreciation of the position depends to an extent not always
recognised the success or failure of active operations. The Infantry in the line unfortunately
take the hard consequences of faulty information or false appreciation.

In reviewing the short history of these operations we are inclined to forget other occasions
in which the credit of successes was due not only to the dash and courage of the Infantry but
to the information sifted from one source or another, weighed in the balance, and finally put
forward as the premises on which operations have been based. In our humble judgment the Army
of the future should take care that this branch of technical training receives a greater measure
of attention than it had received up to the commencement of the Great War.

CHAPTER XI

ST. ELIE AND HILL 70

  July 4th, 1917.                     January 21st, 1918.

After nearly three months' strenuous fighting, it was a great relief to us to find ourselves
back once more in the quiet regions, and the change was thoroughly appreciated by all. The
weather was delightful and the country was looking its best, and altogether the 18 days spent
at Chelers were extremely enjoyable. There was not much in the way of amusement, as there was
little opportunity for it, and we were so far in the heart of the country that visits to towns
were impossible, except for the few lucky ones with horses, for whom the journey to St. Pol
and back was a pleasant afternoon's ride. Billets were quite comfortable, and Battalion Headquarters
were certainly in clover at the Château, where it was one of their pleasures to bask in the
delightful garden and regale themselves on peaches brought by the small daughter of the house.
Otherwise there was little attraction in the village, though in "Lizzie Five-Nine," it possessed
a pearl of great price. Major Lane was in command for part of the time, as Col. Blackwall was
on leave. The latter on his return, not being fortunate enough to be met at Boulogne by a car--Battalion
Commanders only got cars when they were not wanted by the gilded Staff--found, as so often
happened, that Railway Transport Officers knew nothing of our movements, and sent him off to
quite the wrong place, about 30 miles from Chelers, to which he had to get as best he could.
On a hot summer day this was not a nice experience to pile on to that "end of leave feeling"
that most of us had at getting back. and to make matters still worse he found on his arrival
that the supply of lime-juice at the Headquarter Mess had run out! The truth of course was
that not being in demand during his absence, it had not been replenished!

In training special stress was laid on bayonet fighting, taken by Comp. Sergt.-Major Lowe of
the Canadian Army Gymnastic Staff, musketry, and firing practice on the Rocourt Range, where
a two days' Divisional Rifle Meeting was held on July 19th and 20th, at which our representatives
shot remarkably well, and carried off amongst other prizes two silver bugles, which now repose
with the Battalion Plate at Newark. A large marquee was erected on the ground, where refreshments
could be obtained, and a band was in attendance each day. All the arrangements were admirable,
and the programme was carried out without a hitch. Teams from B Company won the Inter-Company
Snap-Shooting and Rapid-Firing competition, and the Lewis Gun competition, whilst a knock-out
competition for Officers was won by our team composed of Lieut.-Col. Blackwall, Capt. A. Bedford
and 2nd Lieuts. Tomlinson and Martelli. In the final round this team beat the one from Divisional
Headquarters, which included Major-General Thwaites. In the General Officer Commanding's Cup
competition for revolver shooting for Officers, our team won second prize. On the whole the
results from this competition and the practice leading up to it, were extremely good, and had
a marked effect on the shooting all round, both with rifle and Lewis gun. Two ceremonial inspections
were carried out, one by the Brigadier on July 11th, and another by the Divisional Commander
on July 17th, both of which went off successfully.

Our stay at Chelers came to an end on July 23rd, when we started back once more to the forward
area, marching that day to Verquin, where we billeted for the night. The next night we relieved
the 1st Leicesters (6th Division) in the St. Elie Left sub-sector trenches. We were not very
strong at this time, about 650 all told. Four new subalterns who had just joined, were 2nd
Lieuts. J. H. Hofmeyr, C. J. Elly, W. H. Sutton, and R. W. Clarke. Second Lieut. White rejoined
from duty in England, and further Officer reinforcements who came up shortly afterwards, included
2nd Lieuts. H. G. Kirby, F. C. Tucker, C. J. Wells, D. Tanner, and J. A. Pearce.

We now entered on what was to be the longest continuous period of trench warfare that it was
ever our lot to take part in, for we were destined to remain in the forward area, holding trenches
with but short reliefs, for a whole six months, and there was little to break the monotony
except one or two changes of trench areas and the interspersal, now and then of raids carried
out either by ourselves or the enemy. Raids had now become part and parcel almost of trench
warfare routine. The Divisional Commander's wishes were that they should be carried out frequently,
and he was strongly supported by General Carey, who insisted on each Battalion preparing a
scheme for a raid, either large or small, as soon as it took over the line, so that no time
should be wasted in preliminary arrangements after the order was given for a raid to be carried
out. The drawback, perhaps, was that raids were apt to be of much the same type, for it was
not easy to introduce variations. In the normal raid there was always the cutting of gaps in
the enemy wire, which was almost bound to give them the intimation that something was going
to happen, the bombardment about "Zero" of the area to be raided, and the forming of a "Box
Barrage" round it, to prevent the enemy bringing up reinforcements, whilst our men dealt with
any enemy found within the barrage.

This sub-sector of trenches, "St. Elie Left," was named after the village of St. Elie, the
remains of which were in the enemy lines opposite. This sector was just South-East of the Hohenzollern
Redoubt, and was entirely overlooked by that old enemy of former days "The Dump," which had
now for some reason changed its name to "Slag Heap." It was difficult at first to recognise
the front lines, so changed was their appearance. Instead of a more or less level tract between
the front line trenches, No Man's Land consisted of a chain of whitish chalk peaks, the sides
of huge mine craters, which had entirely changed the aspect of the area. There were not so
many, perhaps, in the sector in which we were immediately interested, as there were opposite
Hohenzollern itself, but the general appearance of the so-called front line was much the same
in both. All this part of the front had remained practically unmoved since the finish of the
fighting in the Autumn of 1915. The withdrawal of the enemy further South early in 1917, and
our attacks later at Messines and other parts to the North, had not affected this portion.
Mining had been begun and carried on pretty regularly by both sides so long as that kind of
warfare was thought worth while,--a method in which the Boche, who was a nervous miner, had
been completely beaten--but for some time before our arrival it had lapsed, and the only visible
signs of it were the craters, on each lip of which sentry posts had been established by ourselves
and the enemy respectively. A certain amount of excavation was still going on underground,
under the supervision of Australian Tunnellers, but this was mainly connected with the somewhat
complicated system of "listening" in vogue. Apparatus was fitted up, and men were always on
duty so as to notify at once any indication of mining operations being started by the enemy.
Nothing more as a matter of fact did happen in the way of mining, which had already had its day.

Behind the chain of craters all along this area was another feature peculiar to this part of
the line, an extraordinary system of tunnels. It is believed that these first originated owing
to the necessity for finding ways up to the front line by day, without using the communication
trenches, which were mostly overlooked from the Slag Heap, and other prominent points, from
which the enemy could get an excellent view over most of our forward area. Behind the trench
system attempts had been made to obviate this drawback by the erection of long lengths of camouflage
screens, which were a great feature of this part of the front. In the trench system itself
underground passages were dug some 15 to 25 feet deep, from about the Reserve Line up to the
front. These in due course got connected with the mine levels and shafts, and eventually rooms
were excavated off the passages, timber and wire beds put up, electric light plant installed,
cook houses and cooking apparatus fixed, wells sunk, and in fact a sort of underground barracks
was formed, and all within 100 to 400 yards of the Boche front line. It was a remarkable development.

The posts in the so-called front line were arranged almost entirely round about the craters,
and were reached by flights of steps from the tunnels. These posts were some distance apart,
the system of holding these trenches being a thin front line of posts well wired in, with No
Man's Land protected by active patrolling, and a strong, well-built, and well-wired support
line or "Line of Resistance," where every effort would be made to hold up any big attack which
might develop. An elaborate arrangement of doors and gas blankets fixed at entrances, and at
various intermediate points in the tunnels, was made to protect them in case of gas attack,
and a carefully arranged system of electric bells was fitted up from the sentry posts to the
garrison living in the tunnels, so that warning could be given immediately in case of an enemy
attack. These tunnels served an excellent purpose, but there is no question that had they been
in use to any extent they might easily have become a great source of weakness, as they undoubtedly
had a very demoralising effect on the troops who had to live in them.

The Battalion sector extended from "Fosse" and "Stansfield Posts" on the right, through "Hairpin
Craters," "North" and "South Craters," "Border Redoubt" and "Rat Creek" to "Hulluch Alley"
and "Russian Sap" on the left. Communication trenches in this sector were the best we ever
met, floorboarded and revetted practically throughout their entire length. The support trench
was also fairly good, and the front posts not too bad, though they frequently got knocked in
with heavy trench mortars, and required constant repairing. Work in the trenches, therefore,
normally consisted more of general upkeep, than of any extensive new work. Three companies
were in the line, with the fourth in support, living mostly in "Stansfield Tunnel." Battalion
Headquarters was in a dug-out in "Stansfield Road." Company Commanders were:--(A) Capt. Andrews,
(B) Lieuts. Tomlinson, Lomer and Day in succession, followed a little later by Capt. Turner,
(C) Capt. A. Bedford, (D) Capt. Simonet. We only had two tours in these trenches at this time,
one of six days, and one of four, during which the enemy were active mainly with trench mortars,
including a large number of "Wing Bombs" or "Pineapples." A raid which we were ordered to carry
out during this period was left in the capable hands of Capt. Simonet, and fixed to take place
at 11.30 p.m. on August 4th. It was all carefully rehearsed beforehand, on ground near the
support billets at Philosophe. In addition to his own Company, Simonet had the help of B Company
under Lieut. Tomlinson. The raid was made against the enemy's first and second line trenches
nearly opposite North Crater, and was intended in addition to inflicting casualties to obtain
identification, and destroy suspected trench mortar emplacements and dug-outs. Unfortunately
success did not attend their efforts on this occasion, for, though B Company reached the enemy
trenches, and a few men got as far as the second line, they had to be recalled, as D Company
were unable to make any headway owing to heavy machine gun fire from the flanks. Both Companies
suffered a few casualties in withdrawing.

It was on the following day, August 5th, when the Battalion was in Brigade support in Philosophe,
that we got what was probably the heaviest shelling of billets that we ever experienced, for
the Boche deliberately shelled the village without a break from 6 to 10 p.m. with 4.2's and
5.9's. As soon as the bombardment began, everyone withdrew to the open fields behind the village,
and remained there until it was over. We were fortunate in escaping without a single casualty.
Some of the billets were badly knocked about, but we saved our skins, which after all was the
main thing. We must confess to having felt on this occasion almost a suspicion of satisfaction
in seeing Brigade Headquarters get a full share of this shelling. Their mess was so shaken
and upset that the Brigadier had to dine at a much later hour than usual off cold bully beef.
It is perhaps difficult to understand exactly the reason, but there is no shadow of doubt that
in every formation there was a feeling almost of delight when a unit saw the Headquarters of
the next higher unit being "straffed!"

On the night August 10/11th, we moved back into support with Battalion Headquarters, A and
C Companies at Noyelles, and B and D Companies in support trenches. On August 14th, the half
Battalion at Noyelles handed over to the 5th Leicesters, and moved back to billets at Fouquières,
and on the 16th to Verquin, where they were joined by B and D Companies.

By a brilliant attack on the previous day, August 15th, the Canadians finally captured Hill
70, which had so often been a bone of contention, but was now to remain always in our hands.

We now had ten very enjoyable days in comfortable and homely billets at Verquin. Some of the
Officers were fortunate enough to be invited to play tennis at the château, both there and
at Fouquières, and owe a great debt of gratitude to the kind ladies at both those places, for
many acts of kindness and hospitality. It was almost like being at home to be playing "mixed
doubles," and after dinner to have music in the drawing room. The men, too, had a very nice
time in the miners' cottages in Verquin, and other mining villages. Shops and village life
always had their attraction, and we felt very much at home in this part of France, which in
the end we came to know almost by heart. The French miner was always particularly kind to us
all. It may be that many of our miners, by exchanging views on their calling, enlisted the
sympathies of the Frenchmen in the Battalion as a whole. Whether this is so or not, in no part
of France did the inhabitants behave to Officers and men with such invariable kindness and
courtesy, as that exhibited in the various French colliery districts, in which we were so fortunate
as to be billeted at this time. In addition to the village attractions, we were getting splendid
shows given by the "Whizz-bangs," who were now in good form once more, and did much to liven
things up, whilst Béthune with its many attractions, was within easy walking distance, and
always a popular resort for all ranks.

There were several training grounds within easy reach, and pleasantly situated. Training consisted
mainly of musketry and attack practice, whilst the usual Ceremonial was introduced in the shape
of a Brigade Parade, at Vaudricourt Park on August 18th, when the General Officer Commanding
distributed medal ribbons. On August 24th, Regimental sports were held in a field at Drouvin,
in conjunction with the 139th Machine Gun Company, and 139th Trench Mortar Battery. Perhaps
the most entertaining and amusing feature of a most successful day, was the winning of the
Victoria Cross race on a pack pony by "Doc" Johnstone, whom we found stationed at Verquin.

We now entered on the second phase of this long trench warfare period, relieving the 23rd Battalion
Royal Fusiliers (2nd Division) in Cambrin Left sub-sector on August 26th. There we remained
until September 13th, with the exception of a short interval in Brigade support, when Battalion
Headquarters were in billets in Annequin, and Companies in dug-outs in the reserve trenches
in front of Cambrin. It was here that we first came across our Portugese Allies, who were holding
the trenches North of the La Bassée Canal.

This sector extended from just North-West of the Hohenzollern Redoubt, nearly to the Béthune-La
Bassée Road, and was of a similar nature to the St. Elie sector we had recently held, except
that it was not so much overlooked by the enemy. Familiar names in the front line, are "Railway
Craters," "Twin Sap," "Minehead Sap," and "Fusilier Sap." The support trench was named "Old
Boots." There were two main tunnels, "Munster" on the right, and "Wilson" on the left. The
main communication trenches were "Railway Alley," "Lewis Alley," "Munster Parade," and "Dundee
Walk." After a little rearrangement on first taking over, all Companies were in the line, finding
their own supports, Battalion Headquarters being in dug-outs just off Railway Alley. The first
tour was very quiet, but was marred by the unfortunate loss on patrol of 2nd Lieut. D. Tanner,
and Corpl. Wright on August 30th. Tanner very gallantly undertook to reconnoitre a Boche post,
and took out with him Corpl. Wright and two men. The two men got back safely, but Tanner and
the N.C.O. were missing, and were reported later to have either been killed or to have died
of wounds. Another misfortune occurred in our next trench tour on September 11th, when a raid
was attempted by Capt. Martelli, in command of a party consisting of C Company and half A Company.
The raid was to be carried out against enemy trenches opposite Railway Craters, at 11.45 p.m.
It was carefully practised beforehand over a taped model. Unfortunately, the enemy were evidently
aware of our intentions, probably divining that a raid was in prospect from the fact of our
having cut gaps in the wire, and whilst our men were forming up in No Man's Land, they suddenly
opened an intense bombardment, mostly of gas bombs, which fell right amongst them. Our men
immediately put on their box respirators, but in the dark it was quite impossible to advance
with them on, and seeing that progress was impossible, Martelli, who was himself wounded, withdrew
his party, suffering in casualties during the whole operation, three other ranks killed, and
30 wounded. C Company were again unfortunate the following night, when they were bombarded
with heavy trench mortars, and suffered nine more casualties.

On September 13th, we left this sector on being relieved by the 7th Battalion, and moved back
to Fouquières, where we spent a very enjoyable week training and refitting. Leaving there on
September 20th, we marched to Mazingarbe, where we spent a night in huts, and the following
day took over the support trenches in the Hill 70 sector, just North of Loos. Shortly after
its capture by the Canadians, Hill 70 had been handed over to the 6th Division to consolidate,
and it now fell to the lot of the 46th Division to complete the consolidation.

Just before the change, we had been joined by a new Medical Officer, Lieut. St. G. L. M. Homan,
who replaced Capt. Gavin, and three new subalterns, Lieut. C. Cursham, and 2nd Lieuts. S. Bridden
and E. W. Hartle; but on the other hand, we lost Lieut. Michie, and 2nd Lieut. Orton, invalided
to England, and 2nd Lieut. Pearce, who joined the 139th Trench Mortar Battery. Comp. Sergt.
Major Haywood had also gone home to train for a commission, only to be killed later when serving
with another Battalion.

It was an agreeable change for us to occupy such a position as Hill 70, as observation could
be got from there over the enemy country for many miles, and it was pleasant after having almost
invariably been overlooked, to be able now to see something of the other side of the picture.
The enemy, however, had good observation from Hulluch and Wingles, over our approaches through
Loos, in the valley, and movement was mainly by that never-ending communication trench "Railway
Alley," running from the top of the ridge behind Loos, through the outskirts of that village
up to Hill 70, where it joined up to "Humbug Alley," the main communication trench of the left
sector. The front line which was in none too good order, was known mainly as to its position
with regard to the remnants of woods in its neighbourhood, "Bois de Dix-huit" opposite the
right, "Bois Rasé" in the centre, and "Bois Hugo" on the left. All the forward trenches bore
names beginning with H, two of which were "Heaven" and "Hell," but the former was not quite
the Paradise one might expect from its name. Such dug-outs as were usable, were deep, but small.
Many had been blown in, and practically all the entrances faced the wrong way, which was a
distinct drawback.

For seven weeks, probably the most monotonous in the history of the Battalion's trench warfare,
we helped to hold Hill 70, relieving in the line with the 7th Battalion. When in Brigade support,
we lived in dug-outs in the old British and German front line trenches in front of and behind
the Loos-Hulluch Road, with Battalion Headquarters in "Tosh Alley." When in Divisional Reserve,
we lived in the Mazingarbe huts, which were fairly comfortable, but capable of much improvement.
Battalion Headquarters occupying a house in the aristocratic street known as "Snobs' Alley."
Tours in the trenches, in support and reserve were each of six days. Life in the trenches was
of a most humdrum nature. There was not even a raid of any kind, so far as our Battalion was
concerned. We simply slogged on week after week at real trench work, making fire-bays and fire-steps,
thickening the barbed wire in front, improving dug-outs, and making good the communication
trenches and reserve line, by revetting and trench gridding. The latter was probably the most
important work carried out, and many were the "A" frames that were fixed, and trench grids
that were placed in position during those tedious times, to say nothing of the tons of earth
that were dug out in order that this might be done, for the trenches had mostly been flattened
out by our bombardment before the hill was captured, and needed the expenditure of untold energy
and hard work to get them in good order. Great keenness in connection with this work was shewn
by Capt. E. J. Grinling, M.C., of the Lincolns, who had recently succeeded that most energetic
Officer Capt. Buckley, as Brigade Major, when the latter left to take up a higher appointment.

The weather during the early part of October was fine, hot and dry, but with the inevitable
rain which set in later, the trenches, where not cleaned and floorboarded, soon became in an
almost impassable state, for the mud and chalk together made a sort of paste, two or three
feet deep, of an extraordinarily sticky nature, almost impossible to get through, so that the
carrying of all kinds of stores was extremely exhausting work. Fortunately we got some slight
assistance by the use of Tump Lines--a leather arrangement by which the load was carried on
the back, but the weight taken by a broad leather across the forehead--and Yukon packs--a kind
of wooden framework covered with canvas, on which the material was fastened with thin rope,
and the whole carried on the back, and held in position by straps round the shoulders. Constant
practice in their use was carried out when back at the Mazingarbe huts, and in the end a number
of men became quite expert, and could carry big loads with either of these devices, with much
less fatigue, and in a much shorter time than was possible in any other way.

Water was supplied here, as in the Cambrin sector, by a system of pipes. These were the only
two instances we met with where this system of supply was in vogue. To supply the Hill 70 sector,
Australian Engineers had tapped the water from the mine at the end of the Loos "Crassier,"
and pumped it up to tanks fixed at different points in the trenches. The chief drawback of
course was that the pipes were apt to get broken by shells. It was a drawback to be short of
water for more reasons than one, as an essential part of trench discipline was to shave regularly,
and the visitor to Battalion Headquarters must have noticed on more than one occasion a petrol
tin labelled "Shaving Water," put in a prominent position so as to catch the eye (of the Brigadier!)
Two of General Carey's pet orders in connection with trench routine, were that all ranks as
far as reasonably possible should shave every day, and that tea leaves should not be deposited
in or on the sides of the trenches.

Rations and supplies were mainly brought up by pack mules, the only sector in which this method
was used regularly. The mules were taken from the Transport lines at Sailly-Labourse by road
to Fosse 3, thence over a cross-country track past Brigade Headquarters at Prèvite Castle,
to the Battalion dumps at Tosh Alley, and the old British front line. This was a perfectly
silent method, and one which, with little practice, soon became a very expeditious one. During
our stay, work was begun on the laying of tramlines up to Hill 70, but whilst we were there
they were not used to any great extent.

There was a normal amount of shelling in the area, and an uncomfortable amount of heavy trench
mortaring, particularly of the Left-Company front, whilst machine gun bullets along the front
line, and about the Tosh Alley dump, which was enfiladed from Hulluch, often took much dodging.
Otherwise the sector so far as we were concerned was fairly quiet. Our most unpleasant experience
undoubtedly was on October 4th, when we got caught in the bombardment connected with an attempted
Boche raid on the 7th Battalion, whom we were relieving. They had been very heavily shelled
and trench mortared, and suffered numerous casualties, the clearing of which caused the relief
to be a long and difficult business. Several dug-out entrances were blown in, and the front
line in many parts was almost unrecognisable. B Company unfortunately got mixed up with some
of the shelling, and lost several men, including Sergt. Drabble, who was killed. Pvte. Frank
Green did very good work on this occasion, in rescuing buried men, working for five hours on
end, though severely shaken as a result of the trench mortaring, and L.-Corpl. Stewart did
excellent work in repairing broken telephone wires.

A very good daylight patrol was carried out on November 11th, by 2nd Lieut. A. C. Fairbrother,
a newly joined Subaltern, who managed to get into the enemy trenches, shoot a Boche, and return
with the two men who were with him without casualty. For this he was awarded the M.C. A decoration
of a different kind ought to have been awarded to another Officer, who on a perfectly quiet
night in the line, when we had nothing to disturb our peace of mind, boldly sent off the cryptic
message "G.A.S."--only to be used in case of cloud gas attack, and likely to cause every Officer
and man, horse and mule, back almost to General Headquarters to have their box respirators
or gas masks put on! Not content with that, he turned on a Strombos Horn, which was also to
be used only on occasions of cloud gas, but fortunately it could not rise to anything more
than a painful kind of wheeze. The cause of all his excitement apparently was that he imagined
he heard another Strombos Horn some miles away!

Whilst we were in the Hill 70 sector, the 59th Division (our second line Territorials) took
over a portion of the line about Avion, just South of Lens, and it was a great pleasure to
welcome some old friends who came over to see us, including A. C. Clarke commanding the 2/6th
Battalion, M. C. Martyn commanding the 2/7th Battalion, and F. W. Johnson, commanding a Field
Ambulance in the 59th Division. Over an excellent little dinner, at Béthune, arranged by our
good friend Col. Barron of the 1/1st North Midland Field Ambulance, we were able to compare
notes, and go over many items of interest.

We were not sorry when news came that the Divisional General had decided that, as the Hill
70 sector was the most unpleasant one of the three held by the Division, an inter-Brigade relief
should be carried out with a view to giving another Brigade a chance of "doing its bit" there
as well. The lot fell on the 138th Brigade, and on November 15th, we were relieved by the 5th
Leicesters, and moved back once more to support in the St. Elie sector, with Battalion Headquarters
and two Companies at Philosophe, and two Companies in trenches, one in support to each of the
two Battalions holding the line. This was the beginning of the last phase of this trench warfare
period.

Much to the regret of all ranks we now lost Major Lane, who left us for a tour of duty at home,
and was succeeded as Second-in-Command by Major E. M. Gingell, of the Wiltshires. Capt. A.
Bedford also went to England for a rest at the beginning of November, and Capt. Geary then
took command of C Company. Lieut. Lomer went to Brigade Headquarters, where he later became
Intelligence Officer. Second Lieut. Hofmeyr unfortunately had been killed whilst we were at
Hill 70, and Capt. Vann after holding various appointments during the summer, had finally left
to take command of the 6th Battalion at the end of September. Several reinforcement Officers,
however, had arrived, including 2nd Lieuts. T. Saunders, W. B. Newton, A. D. Sims, N. Martin
and C. M. Bedford, and our strength in Officers was consistently kept up to something over
30, and in other ranks to about 650.

Our second period in the St. Elie Left sub-sector lasted until the middle of January, 1918.
We continued the old system of six days in the line, six days in Brigade support at Philosophe,
and after a further six days in the line the same period in Divisional reserve at Verquin.
The weather was now getting very bad, and as few troops as possible were kept on duty in the
front line, which as usual was held by posts at considerable intervals, the defence of the
line being assured by the activity of patrols which were out in No Man's Land much of the night,
and did some excellent work, on several occasions getting right inside the enemy lines.

We were lucky in being out of the line for Christmas, which was spent at Verquin with much
feasting and merriment. There seemed to be no shortage of good things, and we feel sure that
the inhabitants of Verquin will not think that at any rate at Christmas time we take our pleasures
seriously. Of course tales of all kinds are told of our doings, and though perhaps some of
them may have been exaggerated, there is no doubt we did ourselves proud. It was a memorable
sight to see the four Company Commanders slogging back to the trenches on December 28th, to
relieve the 7th Battalion in the line. Jack White in temporary command of A, John Turner of
B, Geary of C, and "Simmy" of D. Passing Brigade Headquarters at Philosophe they wore a look
that seemed to say "another little drink wouldn't do us any harm," and after a refresher there,
they went on looking as if they didn't care two straws if the Boche attacked or not. As a matter
of fact on January 2nd, 1918, the enemy did actually attempt a raid on our front, but thanks
mainly to much careful planning by Simonet, and supervision by Major Hacking, who was in temporary
command of the Battalion, the raid was successfully beaten off. The first intimation of anything
of the kind being likely to happen, was a message received from Col. Vann of the 6th Battalion,
on our right, at 3.30 p.m. on that day stating that an obvious gap had been cut by the enemy
in their wire opposite "Breslau Sap," on the 6th Battalion front, and asking for co-operation
in the event of a raid at that point. Steps were accordingly taken to cover the front between
Breslau and Hairpin Craters with Lewis gun fire, whilst trench mortar co-operation was also
arranged, and all Companies warned to be particularly alert. The raid was attempted as anticipated,
the intention apparently being to surround Hairpin Crater post. The barrage began at 9.30 p.m.
with heavy trench mortars and whizz-bangs, opening South of Breslau and gradually extending
North. A barrage was also put down on the front of the Battalion on our left. The heaviest
bombardment was on Hairpin Craters. Lewis gun fire was at once opened by us along the whole
of the front, from Breslau to Border Redoubt. Various groups of the enemy attempted to push
through to our posts when their barrage lifted, but it was evident that they had lost direction,
and got very disorganised, and we had no difficulty in driving them off with rifle and Lewis
gun fire and bombs, and eventually things quietened down. Our casualties were only one Officer,
and seven other ranks wounded, all slight, whilst we captured two unwounded prisoners, and
a third was brought in dead. For his excellent preliminary arrangements, and for his wise judgment
and control of the situation during the attack, Capt. Simonet was awarded the M.C. Great gallantry
was shewn on the same occasion by Sergt. W. H. Martin, L.-Sergt. Turner, and Pvte. Wildsmith,
and good work was also done by L.-Corpl. Rowley, and Pvte. Crouch.

During our stay in the St. Elie sector, much more use was made than on any previous occasion
of trench light railway and tram systems. At first rations and stores were brought up nightly
by our own Transport to the "Mansion House" at Vermelles, and there transferred to small trench
trams, which were taken up to forward dumps by pushing parties found by the Battalion. As we
were so short of men, however, mules were requisitioned for this purpose. Later on, stores
were brought up all the way from Sailly-Labourse on the light railway. The larger trucks on
this railway were also available on one or two occasions to take the Battalion on relief to
Sailly, a ride which was much appreciated, and saved some part, at any rate, of the weary tramp
back to billets.

The chief recreation in these days was as usual football. A "league" was formed, including
practically every Unit in the Division. So that the notices of matches might not give direct
evidence of our identity, each Unit was allotted a code name. We rejoiced in the name of "County,"
whilst teams we played included those having such aristocratic names as "Dragons," "Miners,"
"Tigers," "Wyverns," and "Maconochies." We were not very fortunate and occupied a somewhat
humble position in the final league table.

Our losses in personnel during the last two months of this period included Capt. Turner, who
after a wonderfully successful and lengthy period in command of B Company, left to take a commission
in the Indian Army. He was succeeded by Lieut. Day. Second Lieuts. Tucker, Bridden, Sims, Wells,
and E. A. Palmer (a newly joined Subaltern) were wounded, and Lieut. Cursham went to the Machine
Gun Corps. We were also constantly losing N.C.O.'s on transfer to England to train for commissions.
Fresh Subalterns who joined were 2nd Lieuts. C. P. O. Bradish, T. R. Christian, H. L. Kennett,
A. S. Judd, A. Spinney, J. S. Whitelegge, A. B. Miners, C. G. Druce, A. Jewell, E. H. Seymour,
J. Bloor, M.M., V. L. Morris and L. Bromham.

On January 17th, we were relieved in the St. Elie sector and moved to billets at Verquin, where
we spent a few days cleaning, and were lectured on the all-absorbing topic of "War Savings."
Leaving there on January 21st, we marched to Burbure preparatory to a long period of training,
the 46th Division having been relieved in the line by the 11th Division.

CHAPTER XII

SPRING, 1918

  January 22nd, 1918.                 April 20th, 1918.

What the ultimate object of our training was to have been is somewhat uncertain. Our withdrawal
from the forward area after six months may have been merely to give us a thorough rest, but
with affairs in the state they then were, we can hardly imagine that the intention was to fit
us for anything of an offensive character for some time to come, for as a result of the withdrawal
of Russia from the war, and the consequent release of German troops from the Russian front,
everything pointed to the Allies on the Western front being on the defensive for some considerable
time. That the I Corps knew this had been clear for some time before we left the St. Elie sector.
Their Headquarters had remained in the same billets at Labuissière since the beginning of the
war, and they were taking all precautions not to have them disturbed--in fact sometimes we
used to think that they intended to end their days there! There was no doubt a genuine fear
that the Boche might try to break through and capture the rest of the mining district round
about Béthune and Bruay, and this caused them to take early steps to prevent such a catastrophe,
and for some time before we left the St. Elie sector, they had all available labour and material
disposed strengthening the defences behind the line as far back as Béthune. This mainly consisted
of putting up row upon row of "double-apron" barbed wire entanglements every few hundred yards,
which was looked upon, rightly we think, as the best kind of obstacle to hold up an attack.
With machine guns skilfully placed at intervals, so as to enfilade these entanglements, it
was thought that the best form of defence had been attained. Work on trenches in the Division
and Corps reserve lines was also pushed on, and the machine gun emplacements were made ready
for occupation in case of need, and provided with supplies of ammunition and water. We were
called upon to help in this work shortly after we were relieved, and on January 30th, sent
a party of 460 of all ranks by motor lorry to Mazingarbe for this purpose. They stayed there
with Col. Blackwall himself in charge until February 7th, and during that time worked hard
in digging reserve trenches, constructing anti-tank trenches, and wiring "localities" under
Royal Engineer supervision, near Vermelles. These "localities" were points in the different
reserve lines most suitable for, and capable of, all-round defence; they were selected mainly
as having a good field of fire on all sides, and so as to command approaches by which the enemy
might advance in case of a break through.

The detailing of such a large party naturally left us with very few men for training at Burbure,
so that we were able to do little in that respect. Such refitting as was possible was done,
and bathing after a good deal of trouble was arranged at Lillers, but as was the case in many
of the back areas "billet comforts" were not good. Just at this time, too, we suffered from
a scarcity of clean clothes, and later on the scarcity became worse. The supply was extremely
short, and more often than not the clothes were rather dirtier on their return from the Abbeville
laundry, than when they were sent off. This was not our experience in the I Corps, which we
had just left, and whatever we may have thought or said about some of the doings of that Corps,
it must be confessed that many of their "Q" matters were very well worked, and in the whole
of their area, which included the entire region round about and in front of Béthune, in which
we spent many months, we were seldom short of anything in the nature of supplies which one
might reasonably require, though there may have been some Battalion Commanders who considered
that there should have been a much more liberal allowance of motor lorries, which they were
certainly very chary about letting us have.

Economy in all things was now the order of the day, and in order to make the most of our diminishing
forces, and to reduce the number of units, it was decided to reorganise the Army on the basis
of three instead of four Battalions to a Brigade. This was begun whilst we were at Burbure,
the 46th Division being one of the earliest to undergo the change. In the 139th Brigade the
7th Battalion was the one selected to be temporarily broken up. The change was carried out
with lightning rapidity, and within about three days of first getting the order that they were
to be so treated, our old friends the 7th, were scattered almost to the four winds. We were
very glad to be allotted of their number six Officers, Lieuts. R. B. Gamble, S. E. Cairns,
S. Sanders, who was attached to the 139th Trench Mortar Battery, and B. W. Dale, and 2nd Lieuts.
W. S. Peach and O.S. Kent, also 151 other ranks, who joined us and were absorbed into our Battalion
on January 29th. On the 30th we said "Goodbye" with much regret to their Commander Col. Toller,
who left that day with the bulk of his Headquarter Staff, to join their corresponding unit
in the 59th Division. From the 2/8th Battalion, which was the Sherwood Forester Battalion of
the 59th Division to be broken up, we also got a quota of five Officers, Major F. G. Cursham,
Capt. C. P. Elliott, M.C., Lieuts. G. G. Elliott, M.C., and G. Thomas, and 2nd Lieut. E. R.
Elphick, and 85 other ranks, who joined us on January 31. Frank Cursham, who later met such
a sad fate in England, was known to some of the older members of the Battalion, and G. G. Elliott
too, had already served with us. This large influx sent up our strength with a bound, and at
the end of January, we were probably the strongest we ever touched, viz., 53 Officers and 987
other ranks. The old nomenclature "1/8th" and "2/8th," used to designate the 1st and 2nd lines
of the Battalion, was no longer necessary, and we were henceforth known simply as the "8th
Sherwood Foresters."

On February 9th, the Division moved back by route march to the First Army Training Area, known
officially as the "Bomy Area." This move was carried out as a sort of scheme, the idea being
that the Division was following up a retreating enemy, and that at the end of the day's move
we should billet just as though we were actually pursuing in a hostile country, without so
much prearrangement as was generally possible. This did not tend, perhaps, to billeting in
as great comfort as one might have wished, and we were inclined to think it was unnecessary.
Be that as it may, we found ourselves at the end of the day with Headquarters and two Companies
at Laires, and two Companies at Livossart, all somewhat crowded. This in the nature of things
was unsatisfactory, and steps were at once taken to try and bring about a change, with the
result that on February 13th, we moved to a very nice little mining village, Enquin-les-Mines,
which we had to ourselves. The Headquarter Mess was at the Maire's House, where we were particularly
comfortable, and received much kindness from the Maire and his family. There we had rather
more callers than on some other occasions, but none of them seemed disappointed if we were
not at home, so long as they could leave a message with the Maire's charming daughter, and
Officers of the Battalion positively vied with each other in gallantry!

Musketry played the most important part in our training, and ranges were in great demand. An
A.R.A. platoon competition was carried out in the Division and roused considerable interest.
The winning platoon in the Battalion was No. 15 (D Company), but unfortunately in the Brigade
competition, they were beaten by the platoon from the 5th Battalion. Much open warfare and
trench-to-trench attack practice was also carried out, a very ominous sign being that this
consisted mainly of counter-attacks to regain portions of trenches lost! The training culminated
in a fairly successful Brigade Field Day, near Coyecque.

Recreation of course figured largely in the training. In a Brigade inter-Company football competition,
B Company's team reached the semi-final, in which they were knocked out by a team from the
5th Battalion. For amusements we were not well off, as we were somewhat isolated. We did, however,
manage to get the Divisional Cinema for the last week of our stay, a very acceptable acquisition.

Whilst we were at Enquin our "tin hats" which had recently been shorn of their questionably
ornamental or useful sandbags, with which we had been ordered to keep them covered, were painted
a dull green, with, for some curious reason, the Transport sign (dark blue square), and narrow
light green stripe on the left (denoting 8th Battalion) painted on the side. The change was
doubtless due to the pressing need for economy.

By the first week in March, it was realised on all hands that the great Boche offensive could
not long be delayed. The enemy had brought Division after Division from the Russian front across
to the Western, and, during the Winter, had got together an enormous concentration of troops
in France and Belgium, including at least three Austrian Divisions, and it was now only a question
of knowing exactly when and where the onslaught would come. In these circumstances our training
was cut short, and on March 5th, we began to retrace our steps once more towards the forward
area, marching that day to Westrehem, where we had been so comfortably billeted nearly a year
before, and were now enthusiastically greeted by our old friends. Only one night was spent
there, and the next day we were taken in 'buses to Béthune, and billeted once more at the Orphanage,
this being our third time to be quartered there. We were now back again in the I Corps.

Then began a period of about seven weeks activity, during which we had a considerable amount
of excitement, some of it of not too pleasant a nature, and one was never quite certain what
a day might bring forth. The first week, however, was spent in absolute peace at Béthune in
most delightful summer-like weather, and was thoroughly enjoyed by all. During that time the
46th Division took over the Cambrin sector again, and on March 14th, we relieved the support
Battalion in that sector, the 5th Lincolns, who were holding the Annequin "Locality," including
the whole of Annequin Fosse and its Colliery cottages, which was being put in a state of defence,
and was to be held to the last in the event of the enemy breaking through the front line system
of trenches.

With the greatest regret we had now to say goodbye to Col. Blackwall, who left us for a tour
of duty at home. He had been in command of the Battalion without a break since October 15th,
1915, and during the whole time had never been off duty, except when on leave or attending
courses. We feel sure no one felt more than he did what bad luck it was that he should go just
at this important juncture, but he left with the best wishes of everyone for a well-earned
rest at home. At the same time we welcomed to the command of the Battalion Lieut.-Col. R. W.
Currin, D.S.O., of the York and Lancaster Regiment, who was destined to remain with us, with
only a short break, until the conclusion of the war.

Several other changes had recently taken place. Hugh Kirby had left to take up a commission
in the Indian Cavalry, and the Transport was now under the charge of Capt. Tomlinson. We had
also lost Lieuts. White, Day, and Cairns, who had gone to England for a rest, and were followed
shortly afterwards by Lieut. H. G. Kirby. Lieut. Gamble, and 2nd Lieuts. Sutton, Peach and
Saunders were unfit and were struck off strength, and 2nd Lieut. Clarke went to the Machine
Gun Corps. Major Cursham had taken over C Company from Capt. Geary, and Capt. C. P. Elliott
had succeeded Lieut. Day in command of B Company. We had been given a new Padre, W. N. Kempe,
who made himself very popular during his few months' stay with us. Sergt. J. Eggleston, after
a long period of excellent work as Pioneer Sergt., was appointed Comp. Quarter-Master Sergt.
of D Company, in place of Gammon, who went home for a commission.

Transport was lucky in being put in lines at Le Quesnoy, probably the best constructed and
best equipped that we ever struck during the whole war. Units which had been there before had
evidently worked hard on them to carry out improvements, and for once we were really lucky
in finding a good spot. The stables were strongly built, well roofed, floored, and provided
with harness and fodder rooms, and to a certain extent protected from bomb splinters by earth
revetments.

On March 20th, we relieved the 5th Battalion in the Cambrin left sub-sector, with which we
were already well acquainted. On the following day there took place in the South the first
onslaught of the Boche, in his great Spring Offensive of 1918. There was no actual attack anywhere
near us, the only offensive action on our front being a "demonstration" in the shape of a heavy
bombardment with gas shells, which was decidedly unpleasant, though not causing us any casualties.

During the night of March 21/22nd, we did experience a real touch of the offensive in the shape
of a big raid on the right Company, the most vulnerable portion of the line on the whole Brigade
front. This front, which was held by A Company was of enormous length, extending from Railway
Craters on the right to Munster Parade on the left, a distance of about 600 yards. Three platoons
(about 60 all told) held the outpost line in small posts of four or five men, each under a
N.C.O., the fourth platoon being held in support as a counterattacking platoon in Old Boots
Trench at the West end of Munster Tunnel. The latter was about 400 yards behind the outpost
line, and was also occupied by the support Company, and contained the right Company Headquarters.
The orders laid down were that in case of attack the platoon detailed for the task was to counter-attack
either through the tunnel (quite impossible if the enemy obtained a footing in the trench at
the tunnel mouth) or over the top.

Shortly after midnight, the enemy put down an intense barrage of trench mortars, wing bombs,
and shells of all calibres, along the whole of the Brigade front and support lines, forward
communication trenches, Battalion Headquarters, the Village Line, and extending even to roads,
villages, and batteries far behind the line. Telephone wires were broken immediately, but the
"S.O.S." was sent by signal rocket and power buzzer, and our artillery and machine guns replied
at once. There had been no preliminary bombardment or warning of any kind. The enemy entered
our trenches directly behind his barrage from the cover of the craters on the right, between
our right post and the left Company of the 138th Brigade, who were on our right, also near
Dundee Walk in the centre, and just North of Munster Tunnel on the left. Such wire as had been
put up by the few men who were usually available was swept away by the hurricane bombardment,
which prevented movement of any kind, either to or from the front or support lines. Two runners
were wounded whilst attempting to take messages between Company Headquarters and Munster Tunnel,
a distance of 50 yards. The posts in the front line were unable, owing to their small numbers,
to offer any prolonged resistance, or on account of the distance between them, to assist neighbouring
posts.

The front line entrance to Munster Tunnel was held by us the whole time, and an attempt to
blow it in, which was one of the main objects of the raid, was frustrated, 2nd Lieut. Hartle
being wounded by a hand grenade. That the garrison of the outpost line withstood the onslaught
to their utmost there is no doubt, and to this the pools of blood and reeking bayonets of some
of the rifles found afterwards in the trench, bore convincing testimony. After the enemy's
withdrawal, one unwounded and one seriously wounded German were left in our hands, the former
having apparently become detached from his party, and being discovered later in front of our
trench with a sheet of newspaper fluttering from his rifle.

The thoroughness with which the Boche trained for this raid was proved from the prisoners'
statements and documents, which afterwards came into our hands. For six weeks the raiding party,
consisting of about 250 men, had been training over an exact replica of our trenches, constructed
with the help of an aeroplane photograph. The training had also included the teaching of several
words of English. The work of the raiders was extraordinary, and our own men in the front line
testified to the remarkable dexterity with which they removed their casualties. This is the
more wonderful inasmuch as they had to penetrate our barrages, in order to regain their trench,
and there is no doubt that in doing so they lost heavily. Our casualties amounted to three
other ranks killed, including a very gallant N.C.O., Corpl. Tyne, 26 other ranks missing, and
one Officer (Hartle), and ten other ranks wounded. We should like to pay tribute to the excellent
work done by the Signallers, who as usual worked their hardest, to try and keep their lines
in order, in spite of the heavy shelling. L.-Corpl. Parry's efforts to repair the broken lines
back from one of the front Companies, were especially praiseworthy.

Though there was an element of surprise in the raid, there is no doubt that its success was
due to the fact that the defence was designed for an attack on a large scale, and led inevitably
to a weakening of our outpost line, making it peculiarly vulnerable to a raid or attack with
a limited objective.

The following night, the whole Battalion was ordered to wire as hard as possible, and hundreds
of reels of barbed wire were put out. Even Battalion Headquarters shared in the work, the whole
staff being out in an endeavour to wire themselves in.

On March 24th, we were relieved by the 6th Battalion, Headquarters and two Companies proceeding
to Beuvry, and two Companies remaining in the trenches in close support. "Wind" at this time
was very "high," and our Intelligence reported that we must be prepared for any eventuality.
The enemy had made enormous progress in their attack in the South, and everything pointed to
the possibility of a general attack along the whole front. As a matter of fact no such attempt
was ever made on the Cambrin-St. Elie sector, but we had to take every precaution, and for
the next two or three nights, we marched up to our battle positions in front of Cambrin, in
case the expected attack should mature. We even made arrangements for a possible retreat, and
worse than that, all leave was stopped.

It was at this juncture that our Brigade Commander, General Carey left us to take Command of
the 20th Division, with everyone's good wishes and congratulations. He arrived near Amiens
in time to assume Command of a composite Army, known as "Carey's Force," and to assist materially
in finally stopping the great German onslaught. He was succeeded by General Wood.

The "wind" in this quarter, dropped for the moment, but we heard that things just North of
Arras were not looking too bright. The enemy were expected to attack at Vimy, and the Canadians
who were holding the sector opposite Lens, were to be moved to that part to help the defence.
As a result, we got orders on March 25th, to move back once more to the Lens region, to relieve
the Canadians. Hasty plans were made by which the 11th Division took over from us, and on March
27th, we marched to Calonne and relieved the 72nd Canadian Battalion there in reserve, moving
up the following night to the St. Emile sector, in front of St. Pierre, where we took over
the right sub-sector front line from the 78th Canadian Battalion. The completion of the relief
had to be rather hurried, as the enemy attacked at Oppy on March 28th, and the Canadians were
hastily sent there to help. Transport and Quarter-Master's Stores had meanwhile gone to Fosse 10.

The front line in this sector was now of course much further forward, than when we were last
there, as the Canadians in connection with their attack on Hill 70, had forced the enemy out
of the whole of St. Pierre, St. Laurent, and St. Emile Cités, back to the outskirts of Lens
itself. These Cités were now to all intents and purposes destroyed, and presented nothing but
a mass of streets heaped up with broken tiles, brick and other débris, interspersed here and
there with trenches, the remains of houses, and a few shattered trees. Amongst the ruins the
Canadians had laid a splendid system of tramways, and the transport of stores and rations to
the line was carried out every night by this means, in a most expeditious manner. Canadian
Engineers continued to run the lines during our stay, and we must confess that we did not envy
the drivers their job, for the lines went up uncomfortably close to the front line, and a good
deal of noise accompanied the arrival and departure of the trains, unloading of stores, and
loading of empties for the return journey, the guard or man in charge usually helping matters
with a few shrill blasts of his whistle, quite in approved Canadian fashion.

After a quiet tour of four days, we were relieved in the early morning of April 1st, by the
6th Battalion, and went back to Brigade support at St. Pierre, where we lived in the cellars
of the otherwise destroyed houses. Our stay there was rendered less pleasant than it might
have been, by the fact that practically the whole of the village was under observation from
Lens, so that during the day hardly any movement was possible, and most of our exercise had
to be taken by night, when we were kept pretty busy with carrying and working parties. The
nightly gas shelling of the village made this work anything but pleasant. Bathing parades too,
were held at night, and took place in the weirdest bathing establishment we ever met, which
was in the crypt of the church. It was well protected by the ruins of the church, and had been
fitted up with a spray bath.

On April 3rd, we relieved the 5th Battalion in the line, and had a somewhat "thin" six days,
owing to the enemy being extremely active, particularly with heavy trench mortars, with which
he did a lot of damage to our front line, being particularly obnoxious on the night of April
5/6th, in retaliation for one of our gas projector shows. L.-Corpl. Beech did especially commendable
work during these days in charge of a Lewis gun post.

One morning during a tour in the front line in this sector. Col. Currin very nearly lost his
runner. It was a rather foggy morning, and the Commanding Officer sent him to find an Officer
in an adjoining Company. Unfortunately the runner made a mistake at a trench junction, and
gaily followed an old communication trench, running straight to the enemy's lines. It was doubtful
which party was the more surprised when he suddenly found himself confronted by a Boche sentry
post behind a barricade. At any rate the latter were too amazed to shoot, whilst true to his
calling the runner ran, and never stopped until he nearly crashed into the arms of the Colonel,
who was wondering what on earth had happened.

On April 9th, the 6th Battalion relieved us again, and we went back to St. Pierre. On the same
day there happened an event which was to have an enormous effect on the future of the war,
at any rate so far as the fighting on the Northern portion of the front was concerned, viz.,
the attack on the British line immediately North of the La Bassée Canal, and on the Portuguese
in the Neuve Chapelle area. The result was that whilst the 55th Division put up a magnificent
defence on the Canal, and completely beat off all the enemy attacks, the Portuguese gave way,
and the enemy were able to push on West for a considerable distance, until brought to a halt
by the British, who were later helped by reinforcements rapidly sent up by the French. This
had an almost immediate effect on us, for on the night of April 11/12th, we were taken out
of the line, being relieved once more by the Canadians (13th Battalion) who were hurried up
from the area North of Arras, where things seemed to be quiet once more. After a great scramble,
relief was completed by 5.30 a.m. when it was practically daylight. Some got rides on the trains
which brought up the Canadians, but the rest had to walk, and eventually we all got to Noeux-les-Mines,
where we had breakfast and dinner, and proceeded in the afternoon to Vaudricourt. The whole
Division had been relieved--one of the quickest reliefs known--and we now found ourselves in
Army Reserve, to be sent to any spot where we might be required.

Things once more were in a very "nervy" state, as it was felt that ere long the enemy would
make another desperate attempt to capture the rest of the mining area, either by direct frontal
attack from the East towards Béthune, or by continuing his enveloping movement from the North,
and attacking it from that direction across the La Bassée Canal. A large part of this area
now formed a prominent salient, with the enemy on the East and North, and the consequence was
a rapid evacuation of the French inhabitants from many of the mining towns and villages in
that district, including Béthune, Beuvry, Annequin, Sailly-Labourse, Noeux-les-Mines, and Bully
Grenay--all of which we knew well. For several days we watched the wretched inhabitants toiling
along the roads, taking with them by whatever means they could, the few belongings they most
treasured or required. Some had carts loaded with bedding and furniture, some their little
dog carts full to overflowing, others footed it burdened with loads almost beyond human strength
to carry. Ever the throng kept passing back from the forward regions, having left everything
that they could not carry just as it was in their houses, with no other protection than locked
doors. Their cattle and horses too, were driven back, and taken to pounds in villages in safer
regions. Several more mines had to cease work, and the French miners thus thrown out of employment
were mostly set to work in digging line upon line of additional trenches about Fouquières and
Drouvin, for us to fall back on in case of a break through, as it was determined to contest
every bit of the ground to the very utmost. Right well they worked, and in an incredibly short
time, they had dug miles of trenches, and well wired them in front with substantial entanglements.
Our only fear was that if the enemy got through, we should not have sufficient men to garrison
these trenches so excellently dug!

This was probably the darkest period of the war. The inspiring message from the Commander-in-Chief
was read to all ranks, and all indeed realised that we had our backs to the wall and were fighting
for our very existence, and that it was touch and go whether the Hun would not, after all,
break through the whole line and sweep through to the coast, and ultimately to England.

It was in these circumstances, after a few days quiet training about Vaudricourt, that we got
word at 2.30 a.m. on the morning of April 18th, that a German prisoner had been captured, and
had given information to the effect that the enemy were going to make another desperate attack
that morning along the La Bassée Canal. We were accordingly ordered at once to man part of
the Sailly-Labourse "Locality," known as the "Tuning Fork Line," just in front of that village,
so-called because it formed part of a system of trenches and breastworks shaped like a tuning
fork. There was some slight delay in getting the orders passed on, and it was 4.30 a.m. before
we marched off. This was unfortunate, for we were not able to reach our battle position before
dawn, when the enemy's barrage began. This as usual included heavy shelling of the rear roads
and villages through which we had to pass, particularly Verquigneul and Sailly, where we suffered
several casualties, and lost Corpl. Caudwell, who had done such good work with the Transport,
and two men killed and several others wounded. One of the cookers was also badly blown about
by a shell in Verquigneul. We got to our position at 6.30 a.m. where we were comparatively
comfortable. The enemy had actually attacked at Givenchy, but once again, thanks to the 1st
and 55th Divisions, he was completely defeated, and never again did he try to get through on
this part of the front. We were kept in our positions here for two days, by which time things
had become normal once more, and in the afternoon of April 20th, we marched back to our billets
at Vaudricourt.

CHAPTER XIII

GORRE AND ESSARS

  April 21st, 1918.                   September 6th, 1918.

Two days after our return to Vaudricourt, the 46th Division was called upon to relieve the
3rd Division in the area North of the La Bassée Canal, afterwards known as Gorre and Essars
sectors, where they had recently held up the German attack. This front extended from the 55th
Division boundary on the right, near Givenchy, where the line bent now almost at a right angle,
to Mesplaux Farm on the Lawe Canal, on the left, this line being more or less parallel with
the La Bassée Canal, and at the nearest point about two and-a-half miles from Béthune.

Leaving Vaudricourt on the evening of April 23rd, we marched the short journey to Béthune,
where after some rearrangement, we were eventually allotted billets in one of the French Barracks.
How changed was our favourite old town of Béthune! From the earliest days of the war a resting
place for the traveller, the chief shopping centre for a very wide area, probably the most
popular and best known town to British Troops on the whole of the Western Front, full of life,
and to a certain extent gaiety, although within such a short distance of the line, she had
now been deserted by all her inhabitants, and was like a city of the dead. Previously only
hit by a few stray shells on odd occasions, she was now being bombarded regularly, as the enemy
had brought up his guns much closer, and they had already made their presence known in no uncertain
manner. Everywhere notices had been put up warning troops against the crime of looting, but
is it not more than human nature can stand to see houses, as they were here, often open for
anyone to walk straight into, filled with all kinds of valuables, many quite easy to carry
away, and all liable at any instant to be destroyed by shell or fire?

At the moment, however, we had little time to trouble about the town ourselves, as on April
24th, we moved out again. After a novel and amusing cricket match--if such it could be called--in
the Barrack Square in the afternoon, we relieved at night the 2nd Royal Scots in the right
sub-sector of the Essars sector, with two Companies in the front line and two in support, Battalion
Headquarters being at Le Hamel, in the cellar of a farmhouse. Company Commanders at this time
were: A, Capt. Andrews; B, Capt. C. P. Elliott; C, 2nd Lieut. Kent, who had taken over command
when Major Cursham went to hospital; D, Capt. Simonet. It was fortunate that they had been
up to reconnoitre the day before, for when platoons reached the appointed rendezvous, the guides
were not there. We had had sufficient experience by this time to know that, although all possible
precautions were taken, it was a most difficult problem to make certain that every guide was
a picked man, knew exactly where he was to meet his party, what that party was, and where it
was to be guided to, and to be able to do all this by night without a hitch. Ian Hay has classified
guides in two grades (a) the guide who doesn't know the way and tells you so; (b) the guide
who doesn't know the way and doesn't tell you so until he has lost both you and himself. We
might add to this (c) the guide who doesn't turn up! In this case however, nothing desperate
happened, and in due course the relief was carried out.

The conditions here were indeed novel, and more like those of "open warfare" than any we had
yet experienced. It might almost be said that we had now bidden farewell to real trenches,
for, though the line in the Gorre and Essars sectors, remained stationary for nearly four months
and trenches certainly were dug, from now onwards we never had quite the same type of front
line as we had hitherto been accustomed to. The German rush had been brought to a halt, not
many days before we took over, so that there were practically no defences of any kind. The
outpost line consisted of a few shell-holes, and small slits dug in the ground at intervals
with a very small amount of barbed wire in front. The support line, known as the "Liverpool
Line," consisted mainly of a few slits, but was protected for a great portion of its length
by the Beuvry River, and a fair barbed wire entanglement. A few shelters had already been made
in both lines, by putting sheets of corrugated iron over some of the small trenches which had
been dug, and camouflaging them with earth. Some distance behind the Liverpool Line there were
some old breastworks, forming part of a reserve line, which some of us remembered seeing the
French constructing in the Autumn of 1915, when we were in the Vieille Chapelle area, just
North of this. In some of these there were small concrete shelters very much like old-fashioned
pigsties, which on the left of the Essars sector, were used for Battalion Headquarters. There
were of course no communication trenches whatever, all communication to the front posts being
over the top, mostly by tracks through the growing crops.

The whole area was perfectly flat, and almost entirely under observation, so that by day no
movement was possible, and no work could be done, and as the nights were now getting shorter
and shorter, very few hours in every 24 could be utilised for doing the work we were so anxious
to get on with. There was nothing to be done by day, apart from ordinary sentry duty, except
to keep out of sight and make ourselves as comfortable as very cramped quarters would allow.

A further disadvantage was that the water level in the ground was very near the surface, so
that dug-outs were impossible, and the most we could do was to put up small corrugated iron
shelters, mainly in T-shaped saps running back from the trenches. These we pushed on with as
rapidly as possible, in order to afford some protection in case of bad weather. In this respect
we were extremely lucky, and for a very great part of our stay the weather was delightful,
days and sometimes weeks together passing without a single drop of rain.

The first tour of four days was quiet, except for some gas shelling, which the Boche was doing
much more extensively now, especially about sunrise and sunset, when he was particularly fond
of dosing Battalion Headquarters at Le Hamel, and Essars and Gorre. At the latter place the
château and the wood were the favourite targets, and on several occasions were absolutely drenched
with gas. At this time it was mainly "yellow cross" or "mustard" gas that was used, a very
deadly gas, affecting any part of the body exposed to it, and particularly dangerous when the
sun was up. A certain amount of "green cross" or "phosgene" which was decidedly dangerous,
was also used, as well as a little "blue cross," which apart from making one sneeze had no
very ill effect, unless inhaled in large quantities. During this tour we did little except
get used to the new conditions, and try to find our way about. It was the simplest thing in
the world to get in front of the outpost line without knowing you were there, and on occasions
people were even discovered in No Man's Land asking for the support line! Visiting the posts
in the front line was also at first more or less a matter of conjecture, but in course of time
most of them were joined up by a continuous trench. At first the novelty of it all amused us,
and after all it was a very welcome change from ordinary trench life.

It was during the first tour that we had the great misfortune to lose a very gallant Officer
and sportsman--H. K. Simonet. He had moved his Company Headquarters from an unprotected shell-hole
to a cottage at Les Façons, in the outpost line itself, only to get a direct hit on it almost
immediately which resulted in Simonet and his runner, Pvte. Garratt, one of the most reliable
and gallant men in the Battalion, being badly wounded. Neither recovered, and they were buried
near each other in the Cemetery at Lapugnoy. A most capable Officer, of fine leadership and
magnificent character, "Simmy" was liked by all and his loss was felt most keenly throughout
the Battalion. He was succeeded in command of D Company by Lieut. Warner, whose place as Signalling
Officer was taken by 2nd Lieut. Stephenson.

On April 28th, we were relieved by the 5th Leicesters, and moved back into Divisional Reserve
at Fouquières, where we stayed four days, during which the chief excitement was that we had
to stand to in the early hours of May 1st, as there were rumours of another German attack,
which fortunately did not mature.

We took over from the 6th South Staffords in support in the Gorre sector, on May 2nd, and had
something of a shock on finding that they had lost nearly 50 per cent. of their numbers during
their tour by mustard gas poisoning, with which the Boche had literally drenched the whole
of Gorre Wood and château, and most of the village. It was not a comfortable introduction to
the sector! Fortunately most of the casualties proved to be slight, and the greater part were
able to rejoin a few days later.

There was nothing fresh about the kind of work required of us in support. It was as ever, and
was for several more months, the carrying of Royal Engineers' and other material to front line
Battalions, and the provision of working parties for Royal Engineers. How we blessed them and
their working parties! It would fill a book much larger than the present one to attempt to
put down half what one thought, and what one heard and said about them, but this shall be our
last uncivil remark! They had a splendid dump at Le Quesnoy, known as "Kantara." Situated next
door to the station and canal, almost adjoining the road, and having a branch from the tramline
running into it, this dump could not very well have been in a more suitable position, though
the same advantages made it a most convenient target for the Hun gunners. Almost next door
to it was Gorre Brewery, also very well situated, and having the additional attraction of a
tall chimney which gave the Boche the line of the bridge over the canal a few yards behind
it. Though they did some quite good shooting at these targets and damaged the canal bridge,
the chimney in the end was blown up by our own Sappers. In view of these facts it seemed at
first rather curious that this spot should have been chosen for the Headquarters of the support
Battalion and the Aid Post. Perhaps the first people went there to find the beer; if so they
certainly took it all, for there was none left when we got there!

On May 4th, we relieved the 6th Battalion in the right or "Route A Keep" sub-sector, undoubtedly
the unhealthiest part of the whole Divisional front. The so-called "Keep" was merely the highest
ground in the locality, overlooking the Boche to a certain extent, and so an important tactical
feature, though having nothing in the way of defences to warrant the term "Keep." There had
been considerable fighting over its possession during the time the 55th Division held this
area, and counter-attacks were made time and again by the enemy to get them out. Eventually
they got tired, and in the end, after its capture by the Stafford Brigade on April 29th, they
made no further efforts to retake it. Corpses lay on all sides, both of our own troops and
of the enemy, and made the place distinctly offensive. Life was made still more unpleasant
by constant trench mortaring and shelling, whilst protection was of the scantiest. We tried
to improve this during our first tour by digging an advanced trench well in front of the outpost
line, and so as to conform with the front lines of flank battalions. Though the trench was
dug with little interruption on the part of the enemy, we did not exactly look upon it as a
masterpiece, nor by any means our best piece of work in France, but it served its purpose very
well, and in time was considerably improved.

On May 10th, we went back to bivouacs in Vaudricourt Park, in Divisional Reserve. These bivouacs
and the villages of Fouquières and Verquin, were from now onwards allotted in rotation to the
three Battalions of the Brigade out at rest.

The atmosphere during the greater part of May was again very "breezy." From various sources,
including prisoners' statements, our Intelligence Department were led to believe that another
big attack was going to be made, and might begin at any moment, with the object of getting
Béthune, and the rest of the coalfield. In fact, so great was the general anxiety on the occasion
of our relief on May 10th, that we had to remain in the Béthune "Locality" all night. The attack
passed off without happening, as did several others! The bridges over the La Bassée Canal were
mined and guarded by Sapper and Infantry sentries, with instructions as to blowing them up
in case a further withdrawal became necessary. We felt quite certain that they would be blown
up alright should the occasion arise, but had grave doubts as to what might befall those who
happened to be on the wrong side of the Canal! That well-known landmark, Béthune Church Tower,
which commanded views for miles in all directions, had also had a powerful charge laid at its
base, so that it might be blown up in the event of our retirement. Ultimately it was blown
up, not on account of any retirement on our part, but by the enemy shelling the town. Having
brought up numbers of guns into the newly-formed Merville salient, they shelled Béthune daily,
until on May 17th, a shell landed near enough to the base of the Church Tower to explode the
charge, and the remnants of the tower disappeared with the most appalling explosion, followed
by an enormous cloud of dust and débris, bricks and stones being thrown for hundreds of yards.
Numerous incendiary shells were also fired into the town, and with the delightful weather we
were then having it did not take long to set fire to the whole of the central congested part,
which blazed away for days. It was a glorious sight to watch the flames and the smoke rolling
away, but sad to see so much useless destruction.

The constant fear of further enemy attacks, coupled with the absolute impossibility of our
thinking of any offensive action for some considerable time, decided the authorities that a
really strong line of resistance was of first importance. Work of Battalions holding the line
was, therefore, concentrated on strengthening the Liverpool Line, whilst Divisional troops,
Royal Engineers, Monmouths, and special working parties found by the Brigade in reserve, were
engaged in building lines behind, known as the "Manchester" and "Newcastle" lines. To build
a double line of breastworks protected by barbed wire entanglements along the whole Divisional
front was a colossal task. The wire was put up, and long sections of breastwork were more or
less completed, but by that time things had fortunately so altered that no further defensive
work was necessary. The other important work was the improvement of billets in the forward
area, which was destitute of buildings, except for a few farm houses and cottages, mostly knocked
about by shell fire. With the possible prospect of having to winter here, efforts were made
to improve these buildings, by putting inside them "Elephant" shelters, covered with concrete.
The Royal Engineers made considerable progress with this work, and before we left, several
comfortable billets had been thus improvised.

Another work in which all could help--no matter what their rank--and which took a prominent
part in our daily life in these days, was "Salvage." Undoubtedly there was apt to be great
waste by allowing material to be left lying about, and at this time there was a pressing need
to retrieve everything that could possibly be found. We did our best and endeavoured to rescue
such articles as 18-pounder guns and limbers, which we thought might come in useful, but judging
from the screeds that were received as to "the true spirit of salvage" we were wrong, and found
that the returns of salvage that got the most marks were those containing such items as "socks
200" (got generally from derelict Quarter-Master's Stores found in the forward area, and packed
into a limber in about half-a-minute), but the work entailed in hauling 18-pounders and limbers
out of dangerous parts of the front, apparently counted for little. Towards the end of our
stay, when we moved into the XIII Corps (Lieut.-General Morland) and Fifth Army (General Birdwood),
even greater attention was paid to salvage, and every scrap of paper had to be returned to
the Paper Dump, bottles to the Bottle Dump, tins to special incinerators, to have the solder
melted out and collected, and so on, all no doubt of vital necessity, though seeming at the
time rather a bore to carry out.

By the end of May several changes had taken place in the personnel of the Battalion, not the
least important being that of the Quarter-Master. Torrance, who had not been well for some
time, went to England for a tour of home duty at the end of April. Lieut. Dale, who acted in
his place for a few days, managed to get wounded, and then Regimental Quarter-Master Sergt.
Pritchard carried on until May 26th, when Lieut. J. Brewer from the "Pool" of Quarter-Masters
at the Base joined for duty. Kent, in command of C Company, had a very brief period in which
to enjoy the Company Commander's well-earned privilege of being granted the rank and pay of
Captain, for he got badly wounded by a machine gun bullet on May 31st, in the Gorre sector,
and was succeeded by Capt. Miners. We also lost 2nd Lieuts. Christian, Judd, Jewel, and Fairbrother--all
wounded--and 2nd Lieut. Russell, sick. Reinforcement Officers who joined were 2nd Lieuts. A.
D. H. Dunkin and H. Hallam.

Trench reliefs continued more or less according to schedule, 12 days being spent in the line
to six out at rest, and though there were minor excitements now and then, nothing exceptional
happened on our part of the front for many weeks, although on May 27th, the enemy renewed his
attacks near Rheims in the South, and Locre in the North, and made some further progress. Of
the Brigade sectors, Essars was looked upon as the more preferable, if only on account of the
excellent vegetables which grew there in large quantities, and needless to say, found their
way to the messes of Officers and men alike, where they were a most welcome addition to rations.
There were also numbers of livestock left behind by the French, which owing to the rapid onrush
of the Boche they had been unable to take with them. It is reported that two pigs found at
"Tank" or "Portuguese" farm, by a certain Company Commander were not unconnected with a noticeable
improvement in the rations the next time we were out at rest! A cow which was kept at Battalion
Headquarters for a few days, came to an unfortunate end by dying of gas poisoning!

In order that the men might do a little cooking for themselves in the trenches, as it was impossible
to take hot meals up to them by day, special issues of "Tommies' Cookers" were made, with which
they were able to make hot drinks, and warm their savoury "Maconochies," "Meat and Vegetables,"
"Pork and Beans," and other delicacies, whilst during the night hot porridge and tea were made
at Battalion Headquarters, and sent round in food containers.

Rations were taken up each night in the early days by our own Transport, which had been provided
with lines in a rather low lying field at Fouquières, but later moved to the back of Divisional
Headquarters at Gosnay, where timber and corrugated iron brought back from derelict horse lines
in the forward area, made useful huts and shelters. There was little to choose between the
sectors so far as transport was concerned, for the shelling of roads was a regular feature
of the enemy's offensive action, particularly during the night. It seemed of little use trying
to avoid it by going earlier or later, for at whatever time transport was about, there were
sure to be shells, mostly gas. The most lively spots were Gorre and Le Quesnoy villages on
the right, and the road between Béthune Cemetery Corner and Le Hamel on the left, and it was
always advisable to "get a move on" at night along these particular roads. Later on the trench
tramway system, which already existed on the right, was improved and extended to the Essars
sector, and eventually stores of all kinds were taken up each night to both sectors in that
way, the trains being loaded up at "Speedwell Spur," near Fouquières. The engine was taken
off at Essars on the left, and at Le Quesnoy on the right, and from there the trucks were man-handled
forward to Battalion Headquarters, or other points.

During the first three and a half months of this period we were not called upon to carry out
a raid or attack of any kind. Gunners and Trench Mortar people carried out shoots on various
occasions, and our machine gunners, who were now formed into one Battalion for the Division,
made the most horrible noise every night with their "barrages," but we were let off with nothing
more serious than patrolling. The country was admirably adapted to this form of reconnaissance,
and patrols were out by day almost as much as by night. The corn crops which covered much of
the area, were of course left untouched (except just in front of our lines, where they were
cut so as to afford a field of fire), and provided excellent cover, as did also the hedges
and ditches, which were fairly frequent, and by these means it was possible to get right up
to the German outpost line by daylight, and at times even past it. The enemy, of course, played
the same game, and unfortunately on one occasion managed to snaffle the N.C.O. and two men
from one of our posts. Sometimes patrols went out just before dawn, and remained out the whole
of the day, observing from some ditch or other place of concealment, returning to our lines
again when darkness fell. Of the many splendid patrols carried out, probably the most daring
were those by Capt. Andrews, who had previously got a good "chit" from the Corps and Divisional
Commanders, for an excellent daylight patrol at "Hairpin Craters," in the St. Elie sector.
It is reported that on one occasion, when trying to get back to our line he was mistaken for
an enemy patrol, and fired on by his own Lewis gunners, and that when he did eventually get
safely back, the No. 1 of the team got severely straffed for his poor shooting! Others who
did most excellent work in connection with patrolling were Lieuts. Elphick and G. G. Elliott;
2nd Lieuts. Spinney, C. M. Bedford, Hallam, Seymour, Sellis, and Fairbrother; Comp. Sergt.-Major
Rawding; Sergts. Brett, Teece and Sharrock; Corpls. T. H. Johnson, Foster, Brooks and Hurt;
L.-Corpl. Beech, and Pvtes. Stanley and Hinton (A Company), Curley, Walker and Elliott (B Company),
Green (a Stretcher Bearer), and Miller (C Company), and Huckerby, Wildsmith, and Stubbings
(D Company).

So far as training was concerned, an important change was made during this period by the formation
of the "Battle Details," into what became known as the "Divisional Wing." As the periods out
of the line, were too short for any satisfactory Battalion training, to be carried out, a number
of Officers and men selected from each Battalion were left out of the line at regular intervals,
to undergo a short course of general training. These courses usually lasted for twelve days.
The first assembly was at Bruay, but later more permanent quarters were found at the aerodrome
at Hesdigneul. Each Brigade had its own "Wing," and each Battalion had a Senior Officer on
the spot to supervise the training. Lieut. C. H. Powell of our Battalion was for some time
a most efficient Adjutant of the 139th Brigade Wing. Lewis gun training and instruction in
the meaning of "Chain of Command" were at this time perhaps the most important points. Every
man in the Battalion had to be taught to load and fire the Lewis gun, and to know not only
who his commanders were, but how the command might descend to him in case of casualties. Fresh
issues of Lewis guns, which were made from time to time, allowed each Company to have eight.
Their transport was provided by the allotment of two limbered wagons per Company, which carried,
in addition to the guns, their ammunition "drums," spare parts, some boxed ammunition, and
other paraphernalia. Lieut. Bradish, a most conscientious Lewis gun Officer, both in and out
of the line, was responsible for the Lewis gun work, in which he was ably helped by Sergts.
King, Teece, and Milne.

There were two Brigade Ceremonial parades during this period, both of which were held at Gosnay.
On May 28th, the Divisional Commander inspected us and presented medals, and on June 10th,
General Horne, commanding the First Army, honoured us in a similar way. Both inspections went
off well, and without any adverse criticisms.

For entertainments we had the "Whizz-bangs," who seldom gave better shows than we got almost
every night in the hut in Vaudricourt Wood, and the Cinema at Divisional Headquarters at Gosnay.
There were the additional attractions of estaminets and shops in the neighbouring villages,
especially Verquin, where we had many a good dinner, and drank many bottles of Veuve Cliquot
at the estaminet of a great favourite of the Battalion, Mlle. Bertha.

On July 18th, a whole day was given up to Battalion Sports, on the aerodrome at Hesdigneul.
Beginning at 9 a.m. they were not over until 7.30 p.m., after a most successful day, which
was mainly due to the excellent arrangements made by Major Gingell, and Sergt. Major Mounteney.
At the Brigade Horse Show and Sports held two days later, we won first prize for a good type
of Officer's Charger, a chestnut, at one time ridden by Capt. Whitton, and later by the Second-in-Command
(this horse won again a little later at the Divisional Show), whilst the first three places
in the Cross-country Run also fell to the Battalion, and firsts in the 100 yards and quarter
mile races. Whilst we were not quite so successful at these shows with Transport turnouts,
their smartness reflected great credit on the Transport Officer, Lieut. Tomlinson, and that
veteran N.C.O. Sergt. Blunt. As they had got the Transport satisfactorily through one of Major-General
Thwaites's critical inspections early in June, we felt sure there could be little cause for
complaint.

What was, perhaps, from a rather selfish point of view, a drawback to the long spells of fine
weather and brilliant moonlight nights that we had during this period, was that it enabled
the enemy to make frequent night bombing raids. Our own bombing squadrons of course, did precisely
the same thing, but it was not pleasant to be disturbed at night when out at rest, by aeroplanes,
cruising around and dropping bombs. Fortunately we escaped with little harm, but the billets
and Transport Lines of many Units suffered severely. For our better protection in this respect,
a regular system of anti-aircraft defence was devised, and a special allotment of Lewis guns
made for the purpose. These were mounted on poles, fixed at various points in the trenches,
at the Transport Lines, and in the vicinity of the more important villages behind the line.
Though perhaps in a general way they added to our protection against aeroplanes, for which
we had hitherto relied almost entirely on our anti-aircraft guns, known as "Archies," we seldom
saw them bring anything down, and were inclined to look upon them as likely to give away the
positions they were supposed to be protecting.

As the months went by several changes took place in personnel. We lost Capt. Whitton, who after
being Adjutant for 14 months, went for duty to the First Army Rest Camp at the end of June,
and was succeeded by 2nd Lieut. Martin. Capt. Warner went to the Divisional Signal Company
early in July, and D Company was then taken over by Capt. White. Second Lieuts. Bromham and
Russell went down sick, and 2nd Lieut. Elphick to the Machine Gun Corps. New Officers who joined
were 2nd Lieuts. E. J. Taylor, James Howard Smith, T. J. Sellis, H. M. Toyne, F. L. Harrap,
J. F. Shackleton, F. T. W. Saunders, W. Pennington, S. A. Tebbutt, and S. Bradwell, D.C.M.,
and we were given a new Padre in the person of D. E. Sturt. Sergt. Bescoby, who had done excellent
work in charge of the Stretcher Bearers, became Comp. Quarter-Master Sergt. of A Company, in
place of Godfrey, who left to train for a commission. Our strength was kept fairly level by
drafts, and we averaged throughout this period about 40 Officers, and 920 other ranks.

Our somewhat humdrum existence eventually came to an end about the middle of August. By this
time the German offensive had finally ceased, having received its knock-out blow in the fruitless
attack made against the French near Rheims on July 15th. On this occasion the French had received
ample warning of the attack, and were consequently able to dispose their forces in such a manner
as to inflict appalling casualties on the enemy with insignificant losses to themselves. This
was followed up by a series of attacks by French, Americans, British, and Italians, which began
on July 18th and finally drove the enemy out of the Marne Valley. Even before that time it
had been realised that the Germans were not likely to make any further attacks on our part
of the front, and about the middle of July we had gone so far as to contemplate an offensive
in the Merville salient. Preliminary plans were actually made for the attack to be made on
July 15th, by the Canadians and our own Division, but eventually the scheme was cancelled.

The offensive in the South met with extraordinary success at all points, and soon extended
to the Third Army area, nearly as far North as Lens, with the result that in the end the Boche
decided that he must take steps to withdraw from the Merville salient. His offensive on this
front was, undoubtedly, from the first a serious strategic error. The unexpected ease with
which the enemy had advanced on the Portugese front had induced him to push forward further
than had been the first intention. Consequently, in holding the inner portion of a most pronounced
salient on flat ground, overlooked from the high land south of the La Bassée Canal, he had
at last experienced some of those difficulties and losses which had been for so long our experience
in the Ypres salient. The many destroyed guns which we ultimately found on our subsequent advance
bore witness, not only to the remarkable accuracy and efficiency of our own artillery, but
to the folly of attempting to hold the salient when once the possibility of capturing Béthune
and the area South of the Canal had disappeared. Owing to this mistake of tactics and strategy
there is no question that the enemy's losses had been extremely heavy since his advance in April.

During the second week in August, whilst we were in the Gorre sector, we heard that the enemy
were carrying out extensive demolitions behind the line, and our patrols were constantly out,
so as to ensure keeping touch, should he begin to move back. He had already begun to do so
on our left, but we were not actually affected until August 19th, by which time we had moved
across to the Essars right sub-sector. About noon on that day, our left Company reported that
the enemy had evacuated several of the front line posts astride the Rue-du-Bois. A and D Companies,
which were in the front line, accordingly sent out strong patrols to keep touch, the remainder
moving forward to the old German front line. Some 600 yards in front of our old line, lay the
hamlet of Le Touret. This was cleared by the leading Companies with little opposition, except
for a few snipers left to harass our advance, and by evening the line ran East of that place,
a total advance of about 1,000 yards. The same night we handed over to the 6th North Staffords.
On August 26th, the Battalion moved up to support in the Gorre sector, and was disposed about
the Tuning Fork Breastworks, with Battalion Headquarters by the canal side, near Le Préol.
Lieut. G. G. Elliott was badly wounded here during a bombardment of the position held by A
Company, of which he was then in command. A battery of guns had been put in the orchard adjoining
his Headquarters, in spite of many protests, and naturally drew a considerable amount of shelling.
Several men were wounded at the same time. "G.G." had succeeded Capt. Andrews, who had recently
been appointed Second-in-Command on Major Gingell's departure for a tour of duty at home, and
the command of A Company now passed to Lieut. Thomas.

Re-adjustments of the Divisional front became necessary, owing to the continued withdrawal
of the enemy, and on September 1st, we crossed over to relieve our 6th Battalion in the left
Brigade sector. Here the withdrawal had been fairly rapid, Lacouture and Vieille Chapelle both
having been evacuated, and the enemy were now holding a line roughly running from Richebourg
St. Vaast through "Windy Corner" to Richebourg L'Avoué, the general direction of our advance
being North-East. At the time we relieved them, the 6th Battalion were engaged in sharp encounters
trying to dislodge the enemy from a number of posts just West of Windy Corner. We continued
this hole and corner fighting, and on September 3rd, C Company occupied "Hens Post," Windy
Corner, and "Edward's Post," after some sharp scrapping, taking one wounded prisoner, whilst
B Company occupied "Dogs Post" without opposition.

Very gallant work was done during this fighting by Corpl. Mosgrove, who in spite of heavy fire
established liaison with the Company on his right which was held up, thereby enabling the advance
to continue; by Pvte. Stamford, a Stretcher Bearer, who on two separate occasions went forward
into the open, in full view of enemy snipers at close range to help wounded comrades, and by
L.-Corpl. Beech, who did exceptionally good work in charge of a Lewis gun team.

Those who had been with the Battalion in the Autumn of 1915, were now on familiar ground, as
the fighting was taking place on what was then the area just behind the line that we held in
the Richebourg sector. The capture of the posts about Windy Corner straightened out the line,
and enabled us to obtain suitable jumping-off positions for an attack which was to take place
the following day, as it had been decided to speed up the enemy's retreat in this part, and
drive him back far enough to enable us to retake the old British front line near Neuve Chapelle,
the enemy being at this moment about 2,000 yards West of that line.

Instructions for the attack were issued somewhat hurriedly during the night. B and C were to
be the leading Companies, with A and D in support. The 5th Leicesters were attacking on our
right, and the 19th Division on the left. There was little or no time to make any reconnaissance.
Zero was 5.15 a.m. on September 4th, and the barrage came down on the stroke 200 yards East
of a line through "Haystack," "Orchard," "Albert," "Dogs" and "Edward's" Posts. Having remained
on this line four minutes it moved forward at the rate of 100 yards in two minutes, closely
followed by the leading troops. The enemy made little resistance, and had evidently decided
not to offer any serious defence to operations on a large scale, but to get out of the way
as quickly as possible. The result was that within a couple of hours we had regained possession
of the old British front line, and the "contact aeroplane" which cruised round a little later,
saw our ground flares burning in the identical trenches we held in November, 1915. The 5th
Leicesters met with equal success, and were abreast of us on the same line. The 19th Division
on our left had met with considerable resistance at Neuve Chapelle, and did not get the whole
of their objective until later in the day. The enemy had decided for the moment to stand on
his old line running through the Bois-du-Biez, a strong position, from which it would be difficult
to dislodge him. The troops on our left suffered several casualties in a fruitless endeavour
to push platoons forward into the wood. Our casualties were negligible owing to the feeble
resistance offered, and the weak counter-barrage put down. Battalion Headquarters moved immediately
after the attack to "Lansdowne Post."

Communication had been well maintained during this and other recent advances, and we were seldom
out of touch by telephone, either with advanced Companies or with Brigade Headquarters. In
fact, on the advance into Le Touret, there was so much cover available, on or near the Rue
du Bois that a forward Signalling Station, supplied by a South and a North line, was established
only a few hundred yards behind the front line, within a few minutes of that line being consolidated,
and of these two lines the North line was not a mere ground line, but a poled cable. We owed
it to the untiring efforts of the Signal Section, under Lieut. Stephenson, ably backed by Sergt.
Templeman, Corpl. Osborne and others, that communications were kept up so well.

The peace that we enjoyed for the rest of the day, was unfortunately not maintained, for on
September 5th, the Boche made things unpleasant by shelling the various posts we were holding,
which were nothing but isolated shallow trenches with a few corrugated iron shelters covered
with earth. One of these, which was used as Battalion Headquarters, got a direct hit with a
4.2 whilst the whole of the Headquarters' staff, except the Medical Officer were in it. The
result was disastrous. Every Officer in it was wounded, though "Andy" escaped with nothing
worse than a few scratches. Col. Currin got a leg damaged, Martin the Adjutant, and Elly, Intelligence
Officer, both got broken legs, and several other wounds. Stephenson and Taylor (Works Officer)
were also wounded in the leg, whilst Spinney (Assistant Adjutant) and Salmon (Artillery Liaison
Officer), sustained serious head and face wounds. Elly died the following day at the Casualty
Clearing Station, at Pernes.

Owing to the continuance of the shelling, Battalion Headquarters moved to Hens Post near Windy
Corner, but again were not left alone, as the enemy put over some eight-inch and gas shells
in the vicinity. Altogether it was a decidedly unpleasant day, and we were not sorry to hear
that the 19th Division were to relieve us the same night. The relieving Battalion, the 9th
Cheshires, fortunately for them did not arrive until things had quietened down, and the relief,
if somewhat lengthy, was carried out more or less in peace. The lucky ones got a ride from
Le Touret on the light railway, but the trains for the rest failed to turn up, and they had
to foot it back to Beuvry, where the Battalion was billeted, with Major Andrews in temporary
command.

CHAPTER XIV

AUCHEL TO PONTRUET

  Sept. 7th, 1918.                    Sept. 26th, 1918.

We left Beuvry on the morning of Sept. 7th and were taken back on the light railway to Ferfay.
On this occasion, much to our surprise, the trains moved off at the scheduled time. From Ferfay
it was but a short march to Auchel, another mining village, where we found very good billets,
and were welcomed in their usual hospitable way by the French miners and their families. Thanks
to a most generous Town Major we got all sorts of little billet comforts, of which he seemed
to have an unlimited supply, whilst opposite the Headquarters Mess was a very comfortable little
restaurant, bearing the sign, "Cosy Corner," where we found helping to run the show, an old
friend known to us in earlier days at Béthune as "Lily."

On the day after our arrival Lieut.-Col. J. F. Dempster, D.S.O., 2nd Manchesters, took over
command of the Battalion, Major Andrews resuming the duties of Second-in-Command, and Lieut.
C. H. Powell temporarily acting as Adjutant. Changes had also taken place in the Higher Commands
in the Division. Brigadier-General John Harington, D.S.O., from the 46th Machine Gun Battalion,
had succeeded General Wood in command of the 139th Brigade, and Major-General Thwaites, who
had laboured so assiduously to keep the Division up to the highest pitch of perfection in every
respect, had gone to England to take up the duties of Director of Military Intelligence at
the War Office, and we now had the pleasure of meeting his successor, Major-General G. F. Boyd,
C.B., C.M.G., D.S.O., D.C.M., who was to command the Division for the rest of the war. He came
to see us at Auchel, and we soon realised that under his leadership, given ordinary luck, we
could not help doing well. Fresh from the battles of the South, he had much to tell us about
the latest forms of attack, particularly those carried out in conjunction with Tanks, and we
were not long in finding out that what he could not tell us about the kind of fighting that
was going on was not worth knowing. He introduced to us the system of advancing in the early
stages of the attack in the "Blob" formation, that is, with Companies on wide frontages, echelonned
in depth, with each Platoon in a line of sections in "blobs," or small and somewhat open groups.
With this formation there was less likelihood of severe casualties from shelling or machine
guns, whilst it was a most simple formation from which extensions could be carried out, and
at the same time it allowed the Section Commander to retain control of his men up to the last
possible moment. This system we at once set about practising, and later on used it in all the
battles in which we took part. Very little training was possible during the few days spent
at Auchel owing to the bad weather.

It was, of course, general knowledge that we were shortly to take an active part in the fighting
in the South, and therefore no surprise when we received orders to entrain. This was carried
out in the early hours of Sept. 12th, at Calonne-Ricouart Station, and was rendered extremely
uncomfortable by a torrential downpour, which made it specially difficult to get the transport
vehicles up the steep ramps on to the trucks. C Company had to do the loading for the whole
Brigade, and were at the station for nearly twenty-four hours, working in shifts. They left
by the last train at 12.40 p.m., the main body having left at 3.16 a.m. This was our farewell
to a district of which we had got to know practically every inch, and of which we shall always
retain most happy recollections. We had been there for seventeen months without a break.

Slowly but surely we wended our way Southwards, until we reached Amiens. At one period the
town had been emptied of all civilians, but they were just beginning to come back and the streets
were now showing slight signs of life again. A certain amount of damage had been done by shell-fire,
and as we moved Eastward from Amiens, signs of the one-time proximity of the front line became
more marked. Eventually we came to a stop at Corbie Station, where we detrained during the
afternoon, after a journey of about twelve hours. After most welcome and refreshing tea, which
we owed to the forethought of Capt. Salter, the Acting Staff-Captain, we marched to billets
at La Houssoye, some five miles away, where C Company joined us early the following morning.
We were now in the IX Corps, which formed part of General Rawlinson's Fourth Army. We were
soon able to make ourselves comfortable, though the village was somewhat battered and contained
very few inhabitants. When we moved further forward, it was, from a purely military point of
view, a decided advantage to find no civilians at all. All around was a delightfully free rolling
country, and we could wander anywhere according to our own sweet will, those lucky enough to
have horses getting some lovely gallops across the chalk downs. This area had been too near
the front line for the past few months for any work to be carried out on the land, and such
crops as there were were now being harvested by soldier labour, mostly Canadian.

The enemy had been driven back from the neighbourhood during August by the Australians, who
had had particularly hard fighting about Villers-Bretonneux, not many miles distant from where
we were billeted, and the work of clearing the battlefield was already in hand. Gangs of Chinese
were employed in the task, but we were not impressed by their industry. Everything had to be
carried to dumps by the roadside, and no matter what the burden the only authorised way of
carrying it was by putting it on the end of a pole, which the "Chink" carried over his shoulder.
It seemed decidedly comical, to say the least, to see a man walk several hundred yards to retrieve
a coat, for example, hang it on the pole, and walk several more hundred yards with it to a
dump! Nevertheless, this seemed to be the recognised way of working.

Such training as we carried out was mostly in the attack and other operations, such as advanced
guards, likely to be required in open warfare. Little was done in the way of bombing, which
had had its day. There was a good deal of Lewis gun work, and "field-firing" practice in the
shape of Platoon attacks on strong points. Flags to represent Tanks were introduced into the
scheme with a view to giving some idea of how to follow up a Tank and take possession of the
ground it gained. A good deal of practice in Map Reading and Compass work was carried out by
Officers and N.C.O.'s, which proved most useful in the days to come. Several Officers and N.C.O.'s
here enjoyed their first aeroplane flight through the kindness of the Officer commanding a
Bombing Squadron in the vicinity.

Orders for a move came after little delay, but with unexpected suddenness. We had to break
off in the middle of a practice attack on September 18th, to prepare for our departure, and
at 9 p.m. on the same day we left La Houssoye and marched to Bonnay, where we embussed for
the forward area once more. Transport marched brigaded and was now under Lieut. Toyne, who
took charge when Lieut. Tomlinson broke his collar-bone in a jumping competition a little while
before at Vaudricourt. Somewhere about midnight the long procession of lorries moved off. The
other two Brigades of the Division were being moved by the same means, and there is no doubt
that the Auxiliary 'Bus Companies were having a pretty busy time! In the darkness the journey
seemed endless. It was too bumpy to allow even a doze, sleepy as most of us felt. The whole
area was a desolate ruin, but in the darkness we were, of course, able to see little or nothing
of it. For something like 40 miles, the Somme area, through which we were passing, was nothing
but an immense wilderness--every village practically in ruins, and hardly sufficient remains
in many cases to identify their position. In one case a signboard had been put up to mark the
site of the village, and on maps they were usually described as "---- ruins of." Old trenches
and barbed wire entanglements existed at various points. Not a scrap of ground was cultivated--all
was wild and uncared for. Not a living soul was there except a few odd troops of our own, working
mostly on roads or guarding dumps, and French, Italians, Portuguese and "Chinks" working on
the railways. A few odd woods and shattered trees were practically the only things standing
in this enormous tract of country. Later on we saw all this for ourselves when we used to cross
this devastated area going on leave or for trips to Amiens, which a generous staff permitted
us to indulge in occasionally. Much of the area had been fought over four times--firstly, when
captured by the enemy in the original advance; secondly, when he withdrew to the Hindenburg
Line early in 1917 and laid the whole place waste; thirdly, during his offensive of 1918; and,
lastly, when he was driven out once and for all by British and other troops just before our
arrival.

Eventually, about dawn on September 19th, the long train of lorries came to a halt, and we
were dumped on the road about a mile West of a one-time village known as Poeuilly, to which
we marched, and where we were told we had to bivouac.

It was a cheerless prospect to be turned loose into a bare field at 4.0 a.m. on a late September
morning. Poeuilly, however, was found to contain a certain amount of useful material which
very soon found its way to our field, and with the aid of a few "trench shelters," and taking
advantage of some trenches which were there, it was not long before we had put up some quite
useful protection. Though chilly in the early morning the weather was quite seasonable, and
on the whole we did not fare badly. Our Transport arrived late the same day.

The Hindenburg Line lay a few miles in front of us, and some of its outer defences were already
in our hands. On the afternoon of September 20th, we left Poeuilly and relieved the 2nd Royal
Sussex in Brigade Reserve in trenches and dug-outs about Pontru, with Battalion Headquarters
at "Cooker" Quarry, the 5th and 6th Battalions taking over the front line. At this point we
were some seven miles North-West of St. Quentin, and two to three miles West of Bellenglise,
on the St. Quentin Canal. There was no great excitement during the three days we spent there
except that we had rather bad luck with the Transport. As the idea was rather pressed on us
that we were now taking part in "moving warfare," some of the horses and Company limbers of
bombs and small arm ammunition were taken forward to the edge of a small wood just behind Battalion
Headquarters. Unfortunately this wood got shelled and several mules were knocked out, with
the result that the ammunition was dumped, and the limbers and rest of the animals were sent
back to Poeuilly.

On September 23rd we received orders for certain action to be carried out by us in connection
with an attack which was to be launched the next day, when the 46th Division were to carry
out a "minor operation" in conjunction with the 1st Division on their right. The Australians
had pushed forward considerably on the left, and the line now bent back sharply, where the
troops we had relieved had been held up by the village of Pontruet. The attack was planned
both to straighten out the line and to get possession of the high ground on the right. The
138th Brigade, who had taken over from the Australians on the left, were ordered to capture
the village of Pontruet, and for this purpose detailed the 5th Leicesters. The attack was to
be carried out by an enveloping movement from the North, and the village was to be rushed from
the East. Our 5th and 6th Battalions were to co-operate by occupying some trenches about Pontruet,
and, on the night following, the 8th Battalion was to relieve the 5th Leicesters as far North
as the inter-Brigade boundary.

The attack was launched at 5 a.m. on September 24th, and though the 5th Leicesters made most
strenuous efforts to attain their objectives, they just failed to achieve the full purpose
for which they set out, and at the end of the day Pontruet was not ours. Our 5th Battalion
on the right also had some stiff fighting, and suffered several casualties, taking their objective
on the high ground South of Pontruet, and capturing about 100 prisoners. Late in the day our
orders to relieve the 5th Leicesters were cancelled, and we had to take over from our own 5th
Battalion, who were holding the Western edge of Pontruet. This operation was completed just
before dawn on the 25th, Battalion Headquarters being in a dug-out in the high ground South
of Pontru. Fortunately we were there only two days, for the discomfort was very great, the
dug-outs and cellars swarming with flies and vermin, and there was little other protection
from the enemy shelling, which was fairly frequent. On September 26th we were relieved on an
intensely dark night by the 1st Black Watch and went back to bivouacs just off the Vendelles-Bihécourt
Road, put up for us by the Battle Details, who had moved up from Poeuilly. They, together with
the Transport and Quar.-Master's stores, had had none too peaceful a time during the last few
days. Having moved to Vendelles they were shelled out of it almost at the moment they arrived,
but eventually found a quiet resting-place for a brief space at Bernes, where, in addition
to ordinary stores, there were piled all the men's packs and spare kit, and numbers of Lewis
gun boxes. All moves now were done in light "fighting order" and the Quar.-Master and Quar.-Master-Sergts.
had their time fully occupied in thinking how all the spare kit was to be got forward when
it was wanted.

During our recent moves we had received a regular influx of new Officers, no fewer than nine
having joined between September 3rd and September 26th. They were 2nd Lieuts. G. Newton, John
Henry Smith, A. N. Davis, R. N. Barker, T. F. Mitchell, W. J. Winter, R. S. Plant, P. A. Turner,
and W. G. Jacques. We had lost 2nd Lieut. Morris, who had gone to the 139th Trench Mortar Battery;
and Comp. Sergt.-Major Slater and five N.C.O.'s who were sent to England as Instructors. Slater
was succeeded as Comp.-Sergt.-Major of A Company, by Sergt. Attenborough. Our battle casualties
at Pontruet amounted to five killed and 24 wounded.

The men were now very fit and the Battalion was on the top of its form. Our chief anxiety was
whether after all we were to be in a real good push. We suspected that we might have been brought
here to be whittled away in minor trench attacks, and that the opportunity of really showing
what stuff the Battalion was made of would never present itself. Our fears were not lessened
when we saw how the 5th Leicesters and 5th Sherwood Foresters suffered at Pontruet, and we
saw looming ahead what we imagined to be the never-ending luck of the 46th Division. Our fears
were ill-founded. Better things were before us and arrived sooner than we expected.

CHAPTER XV

BELLENGLISE

  Sept. 26th, 1918.                   Sept. 29th, 1918.

A great effort was to be made to break the Hindenburg Line. Preliminary orders received on
September 26th were to the effect that the 46th Division, as part of a major operation (simultaneous
attacks by the British and French taking place at several other points), would at an early
date cross the St. Quentin Canal between Bellenglise and Riquerval Bridge, and capture the
Hindenburg Line. The general scheme was that the 137th Brigade were to capture the canal and
hold the crossings, advancing as far as the "Brown Line" shown on the map, whilst the 139th
Brigade on the right and 138th Brigade on the left, were to pass through them and consolidate
up to and including the "Green Line." If all went well the 32nd Division were to pass through
and make further progress. The 1st Division were to protect our right flank, where the enemy
were still occupying a large area of ground which might be decidedly dangerous to us, and in
the event of the enemy withdrawing, they were to follow up and, if possible, capture Thorigny
and the high ground round about it. On our left the 30th American Division, attached to the
Australian Corps, were to seize the Bellicourt Tunnel (where the canal ran underground) and
continue the attack in that direction. Tanks were to cross the canal by passing over the tunnel
and come down to operate with the 138th and 139th Brigades and help them to reach their objectives.

In order to improve our position the 138th Brigade, who were holding the line running along
the high ground just East of "Victoria Cross Roads," carried out an attack on September 27th
against the German trenches on the high ground North-East of "Chopper Ravine." This was successful
and the trenches were handed over to the 137th Brigade. Unfortunately, the following morning
the enemy delivered a heavy counter-attack against the Staffords, and recovered so much ground
that at night the latter had to withdraw from the portions still held and come back to our
original line. This set-back, however, had no ill result.

Our preparations had to be made on the assumption that the attack would take place on the early
morning of Sunday, September 29th, as it did.

From the line held by the Division it was possible to get a good view of the canal and the
ground beyond for some distance, and such reconnaissance as could be carried out in the time
at our disposal was made by observation from this line.

Running diagonally across the front, through No Man's Land, down the slope to the Riquerval
Bridge, on the left, was a narrow road known as "Watling Street." Immediately in front of our
trenches was the ridge which we had had to evacuate, and from there the land again sloped down
to the canal. Immediately the other side of the canal was the village of Bellenglise, about
three-quarters-of-a-mile from our present front line, but looking much closer. The canal ran
in a cutting, into which it was not possible to see, but from descriptions obtained from various
sources it appeared that it had steep banks twelve to eighteen yards deep, and we were told
that where there was water we might expect it to be seven to eight feet deep. As a matter of
fact the canal in some parts was quite dry, and in other parts the water was held up by big
dams of concrete. When we did properly see it, it appeared to be more or less derelict. On
the right towards Bellenglise it was mostly dry. Rising from the canal on the other side was
a fairly gradual, but none the less decided, slope for some distance, fortified with lines
of trenches, barbed wire and concrete machine gun emplacements, apparently a most unpromising
position to attack--indeed, we thought it impregnable, and no doubt the Boche did so, too.
It was an ideal spot for concealed dug-outs all along the canal banks. Many were found there,
and Bellenglise itself contained a wonderfully constructed tunnel, estimated to be capable
of holding at least a thousand men.

The problem of dealing with any water that might be found in the canal was a difficult but
important one, as every preparation had to be made for getting across on the assumption that
all the bridges would be destroyed. Accordingly the 137th Brigade were equipped with a number
of collapsible boats and rafts, also mats for getting across any soft mud they might encounter,
whilst almost at the last moment, numbers of lifebelts were sent up for their use, taken from
the leave boats.

As it was doubtless realised that this great stronghold would require pounding almost to atoms,
arrangements were made for getting together what must have been the largest array of guns that
ever was collected, at any rate in such a short space of time. Battery after battery of every
known calibre took up positions in one or other of the ravines and valleys behind the line.
Indeed, there seemed no room for them all and many of them were practically in the open.

Behind the line an immense amount of railway and road work was being carried out in order to
maintain supplies. Probably the most interesting piece of work was the relaying of the railway
line from Roizel to Vermand, preparatory to its being continued into St. Quentin as soon as
the latter should be liberated. We enjoyed watching the Canadian Engineers at work rebuilding
bridges and bringing up and relaying fresh sleepers and metals, all the old ones having been
removed by the enemy for several miles. The rapid reconstruction of the line was of vital importance,
as it would form the main source of transport for all our supplies.

On the night of September 27/28th, we moved from bivouacs near Vendelles, and marched to our
preliminary assembly position in some trenches near "Red Wood," about half-a-mile North-West
of that well-known landmark "The Tumulus," a high chalk mound from which an excellent view
could be obtained, but where it was not wise to pause to admire the scenery. Battalion Headquarters
was in a dug-out at "Hudson's Post," between Red Wood and the "Twin Craters." This move was
carried out without casualty, but the very dark night, coupled with a certain amount of gas
shelling, and the absence of good guiding marks, made going somewhat difficult. A section from
the 139th Trench Mortar Battery, which was to be attached to us for the battle, joined us just
before the move.

The attack was to be carried out under a creeping barrage, and the objective allotted to us
was the "Yellow Line" East of Bellenglise. The frontage allotted to the Battalion was about
1,200 yards, and the advance in its final stages was to be carried out with two Companies in
the front line and two in support. In each case there were to be three Platoons leading, with
one in support, each front Platoon thus having a frontage of about 200 yards. The distance
between front and support Companies was to be 200 to 250 yards. The Artillery barrage was to
move at the rate of 100 yards in four minutes, making long pauses after each objective had
been gained in order to allow time for the rear troops to continue the advance. A machine gun
barrage also was to be fired during the opening stages of the attack, and for this purpose
our Divisional Battalion was strengthened by the addition of the 2nd Life Guards Machine Gun
Battalion and the 100th Machine Gun Battalion. By a happy coincidence some South Notts. Yeomanry
were included amongst these Machine Gunners. The Royal Engineers and Monmouth Pioneers, detailed
to put emergency bridges on cork piers across the canal for foot traffic and artillery, were
to follow in rear of the 137th Brigade, and immediately in front of us. Second Lieut. Davis
with ten men was to keep touch with the last Battalion of the 137th Brigade, whilst 2nd Lieut.
Plant was detailed to act as Liaison Officer with the 137th Brigade Headquarters. Second Lieut.
Bradish was to do similar duty with the 139th Brigade, and 2nd Lieut. Winter with the 6th Battalion,
who were to follow immediately behind us, the 5th Battalion bringing up the rear. Guides from
each Company were detailed to follow the 137th Brigade and direct their Companies to the canal
crossings. Flags were to be carried to mark Battalion and Company Headquarters. In addition
to red flares for notifying the position of the advanced troops to our 'contact aeroplanes,'
a number of tin discs were issued, which were to be waved by the men carrying them so as to
catch the eye of the Observers. "Success Signals"--rifle grenades bursting into "white over
white over white"--were to be fired by the leading Companies as soon as they reached their
objective. Pack transport was arranged in readiness for taking forward ammunition, water and
other supplies, if required, as soon as it was possible to get them across the canal.

Enough and more than enough work was entailed in all these details to keep us busy during the
short time available before the attack. Nevertheless all was ready by the appointed time, and
about 3 a.m. on the morning of September 29th, after a most welcome issue of rum, which fortunately
arrived just in time, we began to move into our final assembly position on the Eastern side
of "Ascension Valley." The valley never had been a place to linger in, as most nights and early
mornings the Hun was in the habit of treating it liberally with high explosive and gas shells,
and this occasion was no exception, a combination of the two making things very unpleasant.
Further, it was a dark night, and, worse than all, a dense fog came down over everything, so
that movement over these more or less open spaces with little or nothing to guide us was extremely
difficult. However, in the end everyone got into position in good time and without accident.
Fortunately most of the shells were then passing over us into the valley behind. Companies
were drawn up as follows: Right Front (A Company), Capt. Thomas; Left Front (B Company), 2nd
Lieut. Bloor; Right Support (C Company), Lieut. Cairns, in the absence of Capt. Miners on leave;
Left Support (D Company), Capt. White. Capt. C. P. Elliott was acting as Second-in-Command,
Major Andrews being away on leave.

Zero was fixed for 5.50 a.m., at which time the 137th Brigade were to advance from our front
line. At the same time the 1st Division were to advance so as to protect our right flank up
to a point near Bellenglise Bridge.

Promptly at Zero an uncanny stillness was broken by an inferno of noise. With a din and roar
that can never be forgotten by those who heard it, one of the greatest concentrations of artillery
the World had ever seen came into action. The crash and rattle were appalling. Sandwiched as
we were, with machine guns blazing away just in front, and 18-pounders belching out fire just
behind, it was perfect pandemonium. Speech was impossible. Though it was now practically daylight
the fog was so intense that you could not see a yard in front of you. All over the battlefield
it was the same. We could only imagine the difficulty with which the Staffords were going,
if they were going at all, and we could see nothing. Our right Company, A, had been detailed
to assist that Brigade to mop up the enemy trenches West of the canal, and on completion re-form
in the old German front line, and await the arrival of the other Companies. This Company advanced
in Artillery formation as soon as the machine guns ceased firing, about 15 minutes after Zero,
and reached these trenches without accident. Little was found to be done there, and having
distributed themselves in the trenches, they awaited the time for the general advance to begin.
The rest of the Battalion moved forward at the same time in a similar formation to "Nib" and
"Quill" trenches on "Hélène Ridge." Even for this short move direction could only be maintained
by means of compasses. We made ourselves as comfortable as possible there, as we knew that
we should have some time to wait before advancing further. In any case we were not to move
without orders from Brigade Headquarters, and it was not intended that we should be involved
in the actual fighting until the 137th Brigade were East of the canal, and then probably not
for some time unless they were in difficulties. The Boche had put down a counter-barrage directly
after our attack began, and a certain number of shells and some machine gun bullets fell about
the ridge where we were, but caused us little inconvenience.

In spite of the fog wounded men were finding their way back, and odd lots of German prisoners
were being brought back by escorts of Staffords. How they did it we never quite knew, but it
was reported that in one case the escort of a party of prisoners having been lost in the fog,
got a captured German Officer to act as guide by marching due West on a compass bearing! For
over three hours we were unable to get any definite news as to the progress of the battle.
The first official message which reached our Brigade Headquarters to the effect that the 137th
Brigade were across the canal, arrived at 8.30 a.m., and orders were at once sent to the three
Battalions to get on the move and keep in close touch. Unfortunately our telephone line to
Brigade Headquarters was broken, and the message had to be sent by runners, who after experiencing
the greatest difficulty owing to the fog, eventually reached us at 9.37 a.m. Orders were sent
to Companies as quickly as possible, and we moved off again in artillery formation, keeping
direction with our compasses. Progress, of course, was extremely slow. By the time we reached
the canal, which seemed much further away than we had imagined, the fog began to clear and
caused us no more trouble. The canal was crossed by plank foot bridges, which, fortunately,
were still more or less intact, and Companies pushed on in a direction practically half-right
towards the villages of Bellenglise on the right and La Baraque on the left.

Here our first real fighting began, considerable opposition being met with from isolated snipers
and machine gun posts, particularly on the right, where A Company had a very rough time. Two
Platoons of that Company, under 2nd Lieuts. Bradwell and Shackleton, worked their way along
the bend of the canal sheltered by a large ditch, and rushed several "pill-boxes" from the
rear. At one large concrete dug-out a Boche was discovered just emerging with his machine gun
ready to fire. Bradwell stopped him with a revolver bullet through the chest. The bullet went
through the next man behind him as well, and finished by lodging in the throat of a third--a
very useful shot! A little later the same Officer got a sniper, who was obstinately holding
up the advance with a small group of men, by a rifle bullet neatly placed between the eyes
at 300 yards. The left of A Company also met with opposition from machine gun nests in the
ruins of the houses. Thomas himself, in rushing one machine gun, had no time to draw his revolver,
but put one Boche out of action by a kick under the jaw. C Company reinforced A and shared
with them the clearing of Bellenglise, but in doing so they also had a bad time. Stanley Cairns
led them with great dash, only to be killed in an attack on a group of Boches who were holding
up the left of A Company. They were, however, eventually rushed and all bayoneted. On the left
some of B Company lost direction and strayed over to the 138th Brigade. Though the resistance
on this flank was not so great it was not altogether easy going, and there was considerable
shelling and machine gun fire. Bloor, in command, got badly wounded, and Rawding, his very
gallant Comp. Sergt.-Major also fell, dying the next day. Mobilised with the Battalion he went
out with it as a Private and won promotion by sheer merit. All ranks of the Battalion had the
greatest regard for him and his loss was very keenly felt. D Company, under Capt. White, ably
assisted by 2nd Lieut. Smith, acting as Second-in-Command, also gave a hand in the mopping
up. Casualties were, of course, mounting, as there was heavy shelling going on most of the
time, particularly on the Eastern edge of Bellenglise. Eventually, however, the village was
cleared and we got to our next starting-point, the "Brown Line," with our right on the canal,
at 11.30 a.m. This was only ten minutes after our scheduled time which, considering the almost
insuperable difficulties caused by the fog, must be considered excellent. It meant, of course,
that our barrage, which advanced again at 11.20 a.m. (five-and-a-half hours after Zero) was
slightly ahead of us, but that was now too late to be altered and we had to make the best of it.

At this point we were to have been joined by a Company of five Tanks, but they had not turned
up. They arrived, however, a little later and were going forward to help the attack of the
6th Battalion, who followed us, when they were put out of action by enemy field guns firing
from South of the canal and at point blank range. Our final advance, therefore, had to be continued
without their help. We moved off this time in extended order and met with little opposition,
though there was considerable machine gun fire from the South side of the canal, which was
not particularly accurate and did little damage. We reached our final objective about 12.15
p.m., only a few minutes after scheduled time, and the 6th Battalion immediately pushed on
through us.

Our right flank was somewhat exposed, as the enemy were still holding the ground South of the
canal, and one or two feeble attempts at counter-attacks were made from that direction, but
were easily broken up. The 1st Division had been unable to advance to connect across with us
at Bellenglise, but by their demonstration they doubtless prevented the enemy from concentrating
for a counter-attack in that quarter, which was a decidedly weak spot.

Our advance had been extremely rapid and to a certain extent our success was due to that fact.
The enemy in many cases were taken before they had time to get to their battle positions. At
the same time every member of the Battalion was determined to "get there." Particularly good
work was done by Sergt. Peach, who was acting Comp. Sergt.-Major of C Company, and himself
accounted for three of the enemy at one post, by Sergt. Oldham, Lance-Sergts. Field and Illger,
and Corpl. Slater, when in temporary command of Platoons, also by Sergt. Claxton, Corpls. Gadsby,
Skelton and W. Foster, L.-Corpl. R. Harvey. and Pvtes. Cook, Titmus, Welbourne and Stapleton.
Communication throughout the day was almost entirely by runners, who had an exceptionally strenuous
time, but in spite of all their difficulties they never failed to get their messages through.
Specially valuable work was done in this respect by Pvtes. B. Smithurst, Feighery, Sully, Colton
and Parker. The Signallers had a thankless task in trying to keep their lines repaired. A special
word of praise is due to L.-Corpl. J. North for his work in this connection. The Medical Officer,
Capt. Homan, had a difficult task in attending to the wounded in open trenches and often under
heavy shell fire. He got great help from Padre Sturt, who was always rendering faithful service,
and from a willing band of Stretcher Bearers, who worked unceasingly throughout the battle,
notably Corpl. Wrigglesworth and Pvtes. Westnidge and Green. Comp. Sergt.-Major Stokes, who
was acting as Regt.-Sergt.-Major, was also of the greatest service in looking after ammunition
and other stores.

The sight presented by the enemy defences East of the canal gave no room for doubt that our
guns had done most deadly work. The ground was literally torn to pieces, trenches and wire
being blown to atoms in all directions, and there seemed to be scarcely a spot that had not
been touched.

The prisoners taken by us numbered something like 300. There is no doubt that our bombardment
had caused many of them to become more or less senseless. In many cases all they did was to
retire to their dug-outs and await the end. Full dug-outs emptied themselves at the first word,
and poured out their garrisons, which were as quickly marshalled by our men and led off to
the prisoner cages in batches, 50 or more in a batch, and very often not more than one of our
men in charge. In addition to prisoners we captured over 40 machine guns and 10 trench mortars.
Guns did not come within our province, as they were all beyond our objective.

Our casualties, considering all things, were small, and this was doubtless due to the great
rapidity with which the advance had been carried out. In addition to the two Officer casualties,
our losses during the day were 14 other ranks killed and 80 wounded.

The battlefield after the fog lifted presented a sight never to be forgotten. On the left,
Tanks could be seen working their way along the German trenches, followed by groups of Infantry,
who at once took possession of the ground gained. Behind, guns were limbering up and being
got forward to fresh positions; pack ponies and limbers were being taken up with ammunition;
parties of Boche prisoners were wending their way back from the front areas in batches of 10's,
20's, up to 200 or more, presenting a very bedraggled appearance. Many of them had been requisitioned
for duty at the forward aid posts and were carrying back our wounded. Add to the whole, shells
bursting here and there--one knew not when or where the next was coming and didn't care--and
some idea may be formed of what the battlefield of Bellenglise looked like. It was like an
enormous circus.

The 138th Brigade on the left met with equal success, but North of them the attack did not
go so well, and at the end of the day the Australians and Americans, though in a satisfactory
position for continuing the attack, were considerably behind their objective.

During the afternoon the 32nd Division came moving over the back areas by Companies in artillery
formation and pushed on through us, but there was no time that day for them to make any fresh
attacks, and they had to be content with putting out outposts. There is no doubt that could
their attack have been pushed on at once the fighting of the next few days would not have been
necessary. As it was our line did not get further than the final objective of the 5th Battalion,
and further preparation was required to push the Boche from the few remaining points that he
still held in the Hindenburg Line. By the victory of the 46th Division on September 29th the
main portion of that line had been absolutely smashed and the last great turning-point in the
war passed, and from now onwards the final defeat of the enemy was but a matter of days. It
must be confessed that the fog, which lasted practically the whole morning, largely accounted
for our success. Without it it is very difficult to conceive how we could have managed to get
possession of the canal and the high ground on the East of it. A naturally strong defensive
line itself, it formed with the addition of the artificial defences made by the enemy, an almost
impregnable position. General Headquarters thought it was impregnable.

It has since transpired that our fears that our attack was only in the nature of a "demonstration"
were only too well founded, as it appears to be a fact that we were not expected to cross the
canal at all. Lieut.-General Sir John Monash, who commanded the Australian Corps on our left,
referring in his book, "The Australian Victories in France in 1918,"[1] to the action of September
29th, says:--

     "Quite early in the day news came in that the IX Corps on my
     right hand had achieved an astonishing success, that Bellenglise
     had been captured, and that the deep canal had been successfully
     crossed in several places. It was the 46th Imperial Division to
     which this great success was chiefly due.----There can be no
     doubt that this success, conceived at first as a demonstration to
     distract attention from the Australian Corps' front, materially
     assisted me in the situation in which I was placed later on the
     same day."

[Footnote 1: Published by Messrs. Hutchinson & Co.]

For once General Headquarters' arrangements for the 46th Division miscarried.

Sappers got the Riquerval Bridge fit for transport early in the afternoon, and by 3.0 p.m.
guns and other horse transport were passing over it. Later in the evening, after the 32nd Division
had got clear, some of our Transport and cookers came up, and our hardworking Quarter-Master-Sergts.
brought us very welcome and much-needed refreshment after a most strenuous day.

CHAPTER XVI

RAMICOURT AND MONTBREHAIN

  Sept. 30th, 1918.                   October 4th, 1918.

September 30th was spent in dug-outs and trenches in the region of our objective of the previous
day, between Bellenglise and Lehaucourt. Early that morning the 1st Division advanced and occupied
Thorigny and Talana Hill, South of the canal, thus securing our right flank, the retreating
enemy offering splendid targets for our Lewis guns. The same day St. Quentin fell to the French.

In the afternoon the 32nd Division moved forward to the attack, supported by Cavalry, which
it was hoped it would be possible to use if the Infantry broke through the last remaining fragment
of the Hindenburg Line. This was known as the Beaurevoir-Fonsomme Line and ran more or less
North and South about midway between Joncourt and Ramicourt. It consisted of a strong barbed
wire entanglement and a double line of shallow trenches about a foot deep, with concrete machine
gun emplacements every 50 yards. The whole was in a very incomplete state, but at the same
time constituted a strong line of defence. Unfortunately the 32nd Division were unable to break
this line, which the enemy were holding in force. Similarly, the 1st Division on the right
were unable to make any further progress, and the 2nd Australian Division met with no greater
success on the left. In consequence the Cavalry had to withdraw behind the canal.

The arrival of the Cavalry a few days previously behind our lines had presented one of the
most picturesque scenes one could wish to see. Two abreast they came in almost endless streams
along the roads and side-tracks and passed on to forward positions behind the canal, and the
sight was one never to be forgotten. Not less wonderful, perhaps, was the unceasing flow of
transport of every conceivable kind backwards and forwards along the Vadencourt-Bellenglise
Road. The surface of the road was in excellent condition and in an incredibly short period
the Sappers, who were now having very strenuous times, erected an Inglis bridge over the canal
at Bellenglise, capable of carrying lorries and guns of all calibres. The way all this work
was pushed on was little short of marvellous, and one could not help being struck by the enormous
amount of organisation it all entailed, and the care with which every detail connected with
the advance had been arranged.

The 139th Brigade were now temporarily attached to the 32nd Division, whilst the 137th and
138th Brigades were concentrated near the canal. We were supposed at this moment to be ready
either for another battle or for moving forward according to the ordinary rules of warfare,
with advanced guards and so on, if the enemy should give way. Preliminary orders were indeed
received that portions of the Brigade were to be employed as Advanced Guard to the Corps, with
their objective as Le Cateau.

With the object, therefore, of reorganising as far as possible, we were withdrawn from our
position near Lehaucourt on October 1st, and moved about a mile North, to the trench system
in "Springbok Valley," just behind Magny la-Fosse. On the same day the Transport, Quarter-Master's
Stores and Battle Details which had previously moved to a field near "Hart Copse," a few hundred
yards North-West of the Twin Craters, moved further forward and established themselves in Chopper
Ravine, near the canal. This was not a specially comfortable spot, and the Quarter-Master's
Department was constantly put out of order by the arrival from time to time of odd shells from
a German long-range gun. Several of the riding horses, the cookers and some of the ammunition
and Lewis gun limbers were up with the Battalion, so that the amount of transport left behind
was not great. Both men and horses were now having a most strenuous time, and we were lucky
at this juncture in getting back Capt. A. Bedford from a tour of duty at home. He arrived on
September 29th and was at once appointed Transport Officer. We had been obliged to leave behind
at Bernes large quantities of stores, including packs and Lewis gun tin boxes, owing to lack
of transport, and it was a most trying business, when everyone was wanting lorries, to get
the extra transport necessary to bring them along. To make matters worse the Hun was just now
particularly active with his aeroplanes, and with fine nights he made frequent trips over our
lines, dropping bombs. When the nights were very dark he often used to let off brilliant white
parachute lights, and as they descended he was able to get some view of the roads and transport
lines and any movement there might be. Usually he flew extremely low, and there is no doubt
that he did considerable damage; especially as there were such masses of troops and transport
concentrated in a particularly small area. We unfortunately lost several horses, but casualties
amongst personnel were insignificant. His best bombing effort was on the evening of October
3rd. Having evidently seen a large party of men near La Baraque cross-roads, the airman promptly
made for them and let loose two bombs, which fell right amongst them. Between 40 and 50 were
blown to bits, whilst nearly as many were badly wounded, and the rest scared out of their wits.
What the airman doubtless did not know was that they were a party of Boche prisoners! Only
about six British soldiers were killed. It made a ghastly mess at the cross-roads, which was
a most uninviting spot to pass for days afterwards.

During the short time at our disposal we did the best we could to reorganise our somewhat reduced
forces. In spite of our losses at Bellenglise we still had 46 Officers and 752 other ranks,
so were fairly well off. Second Lieut. Winter was put in command of B Company, and Capt. Miners,
who had just returned from leave, resumed command of C.

On October 2nd orders were received that we were to take part in another big attack in conjunction
with the 2nd Australian Division. Our Divisional Commander only received his orders for this
attack at 4.30 p.m. on that day, and the operation was to take place early the next morning,
so that there was very little time to get orders passed to the lower commanders and the necessary
arrangements made. The orders were explained by the Brigade Commander to Battalion Commanders
at a conference at Brigade Headquarters at Magny-la-Fosse about 9 p.m., and it was after 10
p.m. before Col. Dempster was able to give his orders out to Companies. The general scheme
was that the 139th Brigade were to break through the Beaurevoir-Fonsomme Line and capture the
villages of Ramicourt and Montbrehain, whilst the 137th Brigade on the right and the 2nd Australian
Division on the left, were to attack at the same time, and the 1st Division, on the right of
the 137th Brigade, were to capture Sequehart.

The objective of the 5th and 8th Battalions was the "Red Line" running North-West to South-East,
just West of Montbrehain, the 5th Battalion being on the right and the 8th on the left, whilst
the 6th Battalion was to pass through, capture Montbrehain and push out outposts as far as
the "dotted blue line." This was something like 4,000 yards from our present Outpost Line.
A Company of nine Tanks were to co-operate with the Brigade, advancing immediately behind the
first line. The attack was to be launched at dawn and was to be carried out under an artillery
barrage which, after delaying six minutes on the opening line, was to move at the rate of 100
yards in four minutes. The delay was to enable the Infantry to adjust their distance behind
the barrage, which was to open a good deal further in front of them than usual, owing to the
fact that the Artillery had mostly to move into fresh positions, and we could not, therefore,
risk getting up close to its assumed line, whilst allowance also had to be made for the attacking
troops not being exactly in their right position, owing to the difficulty of forming up in
the dark on an uncertain mark.

Our jumping-off line ran from near Joncourt Cemetery to the Railway Cutting. The Battalion
frontage was approximately 1,000 yards and was divided into two Company lengths. A (Thomas)
on the right, and B (Winter) on the left were to lead, with C (Miners) and D (White) in support
about 150 yards behind them. Second Lieut. Plant was sent as Liaison Officer to the Australian
Battalion on our left, 2nd Lieut. Newton to Brigade Headquarters, and 2nd Lieut. Jacques to
the 5th Battalion. Some additional work was to be thrown on C and D Companies, who were to
follow up the 6th Battalion, mop up for them in Montbrehain and then return to the "Red Line."
There was no time for reconnaissance. All we knew of the country was what we had gathered from
maps or our Intelligence Department. From personal observation we knew nothing. Even the front
held by the 32nd Division was not at all certain. We did know, however, that the enemy were
holding the Beaurevoir-Fonsomme Line in force and that the country was of a fairly open type,
sloping gently down to Ramicourt in the valley and up again beyond to Montbrehain, which would
probably be a difficult problem to tackle.

It was in these circumstances that we set out shortly before midnight in the pitch darkness
from Springbok Valley. Guides from the 32nd Division met us at the entrance to Joncourt and
conducted us to the forming-up line, A and B Companies throwing out a screen of scouts in front
as a precaution before we formed up. Though this was a most precarious proceeding it was carried
out successfully, and by 5.30 a.m. on October 3rd, all troops were in their assembly positions,
leading Companies extended in two lines and support Companies in lines of "section-blobs."
During this operation the enemy did a certain amount of shelling, but not enough to cause us
any great trouble. There was some fog at first, and this in the early stages of the battle,
combined with smoke from a screen put down by the Artillery to hide the Tanks, made direction
somewhat difficult. Later on it cleared and the day became quite bright and fine.

There was not such a concentration of guns as we had had on September 29th, nor had we anything
like so many heavies, though there was a certain number of them firing on a few special targets,
such as villages and other points behind the lines. The Guards Machine Gun Battalion again
helped with the preliminary barrage, which opened promptly at 6.5 a.m., just as it was beginning
to get light. We adjusted our position to the line of bursting shells and followed on as soon
as the guns lifted. The rate of progress, 100 yards in four minutes, was throughout found to
be too slow in this more open fighting, and we were constantly either waiting for the barrage
to move on or running into it--not at all a pleasant proceeding.

It was not long before we began to encounter, in addition to the enemy's counter-barrage, opposition
of a serious nature from his Infantry. The inevitable delay since we crossed the canal on September
29th had given the enemy time to bring up large reserves, and on this occasion the 46th Division
had opposed to it four Boche Divisions--two tired and two fresh. Doubtless the enemy realised
that every effort must be made to retain this, his last organised defence on this part of the
front, and certainly the men holding the line we had to attack put up a most strenuous fight,
and in hundreds of cases died bravely, fighting to the last.

The Beaurevoir-Fonsomme Line was strongly held. In addition to many machine guns in the line
itself, there were also machine gun sections in rifle-pits immediately behind it. Unfortunately
the barrage put down by our guns was somewhat thin. There had been no previous bombardment,
and as a result we found that the defences of this line were practically intact. No machine
gun emplacements had been touched and not a single gap made in the wire, which was very strong,
and we had to manipulate it as best we could.

A good deal of resistance in the early part of the fight was met with from the neighbourhood
of Wiancourt on the left, and the high ground South-East of Swiss Cottage, and it was found
that the Australians had not been able to make much progress and were practically held up.
This being the case it was realised that the village of Wiancourt, which should have been taken
by them, would be a serious menace to our left flank, and it was, therefore, decided that we
should go out of our way and take it in the general advance. Two Platoons of A Company, with
portions of B and D (Companies having got somewhat mixed owing to loss of direction), penetrated
into the village and opened heavy Lewis gun and rifle fire on its defenders, who offered a
stubborn resistance, mainly from machine gun posts. Eventually some of them were seen to run
back, and our line immediately rushed forward with the bayonet and killed or captured the whole
of the garrison. Several were killed whilst still holding the handles of their machine guns.
Comp. Sergt.-Major Attenborough, of A Company, here performed several gallant feats in leading
rushes against machine gun groups, and later did most valuable work in trying to establish
liaison with the Australians, who unfortunately, even after the capture of Wiancourt, were
unable to advance so as to help us.

Meanwhile the right was not making much headway, and C Company, from support, had become one
with the attacking Company. The advance here being held up by machine gun fire, L.-Corpl. Vann
with much gallantry crawled forward and managed to knock out the gun team which was causing
most of the trouble. A trench something like 100 yards long, crowded with the enemy, was thus
taken in the flank, and those who did not surrender were killed in trying to escape. They had,
however, caused us many casualties, including 2nd Lieut. Dunkin and Sergt. Hurt killed, besides
many wounded. One of the most gallant N.C.O.'s in the Battalion, Sergt. Hurt had already won
the D.C.M. and M.M., and his death was a very great loss.

Similar actions had been taking place in other parts of the line. Again and again nests of
machine guns were rushed at the point of the bayonet, which weapon undoubtedly did more deadly
work on this occasion than on any other in our experience. Where they could not be taken by
frontal attack, parties worked round their flanks and rushed them from the rear. The intensity
of the fighting can be imagined from the fact that after the battle nearly 200 dead Germans
were found along this line of trenches on the front of the 139th Brigade alone.

The main Fonsomme Line was now ours, though won at heavy cost. Direction had improved, though
we were all too far to the left and much disorganised. We had to make the best of it and try
to straighten out as we pushed on into the valley towards Ramicourt. Here we were met with
fire from Boche guns firing from behind Montbrehain with open sights, causing many casualties.
The position was as exposed as it could be, the only shelter being provided by one or two sunken
roads. At the same time four or five of the Tanks, which for some reason had got behind at
the start, had now come up and did much useful work in the outskirts of Ramicourt, though the
same Boche guns brought most effective fire to bear on them, one of them getting five direct
hits. On the left, B Company, who under Winter's excellent leadership, had done much fighting,
now mixed up with A and reinforced by D, were also suffering heavily from the enemy artillery
fire, and advanced by section rushes covered by Lewis gun fire. It was here that 2nd Lieut.
T. F. Mitchell, commanding a Platoon of D Company, which he led with supreme gallantry, caring
nothing for his own safety, was mortally wounded, dying the next day.

Ramicourt was eventually reached by oddments of A, C and D Companies, the remainder of the
Battalion having got too far left, and passing through its Northern outskirts. There were several
machine guns in the village, and snipers were active from the windows of the houses. These
were all successfully mopped up with the help of the 6th Battalion, who pushed up a Company
and their Battalion Headquarters, as there were so few troops at this point, the 5th Battalion
having edged off through the Southern outskirts of the village. Jack White was seen in the
village, wandering round quite unconcerned, revolver in holster--a small cane which he carried
being apparently his most trusty weapon.

Having completed the capture of the village, which yielded a total of something like 400 prisoners,
the remnants of the troops there were gathered together and the advance continued. A machine
gun nest at Ramicourt Station having been rushed with the aid of a Tank, we pushed on to our
objective, which, except on the extreme left, we reached practically up to scheduled time,
10.30 a.m., most of the troops being disposed in sunken roads on the West of Montbrehain. It
had not been a good day for the Tanks, which in the end were all knocked out, though the last
one working with the 5th Battalion on the right had a good run and knocked out no fewer than
16 machine guns before being put out of action.

As soon as the barrage lifted from the "Red Line," the 6th Battalion began to push on. They
had met with an appalling disaster soon after crossing the Beaurevoir-Fonsomme Line, where
Col. Vann, once more gallantly leading his Battalion and in the forefront of the battle, was
killed, shot through the head. The 5th Battalion too, lost Col. A. Hacking, who was wounded
in the arm. Thus two old Officers of the 8th were put out of action almost at the same moment,
both leading Battalions in our own Brigade. Alfred Hacking had done invaluable work during
the few months he had commanded the 5th Battalion, and for his excellent leadership and gallantry
during the fighting of September 29th and October 3rd was awarded the D.S.O. and Bar. Bernard
Vann, affectionately known to some of his earlier friends as "Vasi," was described on one occasion
by General Allenby, as the most fearless Officer he had ever met, whilst a brother Officer
writes of him: "I can think of him only as a fighter, not merely against the enemy in the field,
but a fighter against everything and everybody that was not an influence for good to his men.
It was his extraordinary courage and tenacity which will be remembered by all who knew him:
he inspired all by his wonderful example of courage and energy." Wounded at least eight times,
and awarded the M.C. and Bar, and the French Croix de Guerre with Palm, it was fitting that
his constant gallantry and magnificent example should be further recognised--alas! after his
death--by the award of the Victoria Cross.

On continuing the advance the 6th Battalion edged towards the South, going through the centre
and right of Montbrehain, and leaving the Northern portion alone. This left us considerably
exposed, and an enemy machine gun firing from a position at the cross-roads on our left front,
was doing much damage. White, Thomas and Miners held a hasty conference and decided to rush
it, and the two former with a reconnoitring party went into the village to see if it could
be outflanked from the region of the cemetery. At this moment a little "Joey" came in with
"hands up," and it was decided to try a ruse. It was suggested to him that he should go and
tell his friends to surrender, and after a little persuasion he went. The Machine gun stopped
firing and he approached the post and disappeared into the ground, thus telling us what we
wanted to know--the way in. Action was taken at once to deal with it. Second Lieut. Harrap,
who had already done much valuable work, got together some Lewis guns and opened frontal fire
on the position, whilst Miners and Sergt. Stimson worked round the flank from the village side
and by a careful manoeuvre rushed on to the post the instant Harrap's guns stopped firing.
Much to their surprise the post was found to be a quarry containing something like ten or a
dozen machine guns and 60 or 70 men! A few bombs and revolver shots and the white flag went
up. Harrap, who had rushed his men forward across the intervening 200 yards, was also at hand,
and the capture of the post was complete. Second Lieut. Barker's Platoon (A Company) also assisted
with rifle and Lewis gun fire, Barker himself being wounded.

Out of the medley of troops which collected there--of all Battalions in the Brigade--some attempt
was then made to organise a Company, and posts were pushed further forward. The rest of the
village after a hard struggle fell into the hands of the 6th Battalion about the scheduled
time, 11.30 a.m. Loud explosions, heard soon after the village was entered, were caused by
the blowing up by the Boche of two houses in the main street near the Church. Attempts were
made to push out Platoons to the "line of exploitation," beyond the village, but this was found
to be impossible owing to heavy machine gun fire.

Both in Ramicourt and Montbrehain we found French civilians, whose pleasure at being at last
released from the Hun terror knew no bounds. About 70 all told had remained behind, refusing
to be evacuated by the Boche. They gave us a great welcome and in spite of shells and bullets,
brought out coffee to our men as they passed by. Later, under the guidance of the Brigade Interpreter,
M. Duflos, they were taken back to safer regions.

It soon became evident that further trouble was in store for us owing to the fact that our
left flank was again in the air. The Australians were not up with us and we were very uncertain
of their whereabouts, though apparently not altogether out of touch with them, for one of their
Officers, who was met in hospital later in the day, reported having received from someone in
our Battalion the laconic message: "We are at ----. Where is the Australian Corps?" The enemy
were still holding in force a position at no great distance from our left flank, and indeed,
at one time were reported to be massing for a counter-attack which, however, did not mature.
But on the right of the Brigade the situation was far worse. There the 137th Brigade, after
making some progress, had eventually to give ground, and their left was now considerably behind
our right. We were thus in a most awkward salient with both flanks exposed. It was, therefore,
not surprising to find soon after noon very evident signs of a real counter-attack being prepared
against the Brigade exposed right flank, and when a little later this attack was launched,
the enemy managed to get round the South-East of Montbrehain and into that corner of the village
in some strength, and it was decided to withdraw from it. This was successfully carried out
under great difficulties, and eventually the Brigade took up a line just East of Ramicourt,
the 8th Battalion occupying the railway and sunken road North-East of that village. The enemy
soon reoccupied the whole of Montbrehain, but was unable to advance further.

We were now very short of ammunition as no supplies had been sent forward. This was mainly
due to the fact that we had depended on a "Supply Tank," which did not fetch up quite where
we expected. Fortunately no ill results accrued, but it taught the lesson that the supply of
ammunition to advanced troops in moving warfare requires very careful prearrangement.

Company Commanders again conferred and decided to alter their dispositions, and with a view
to protecting our left flank, B and C Companies moved across to bridge the gap there, leaving
A and D Companies in the railway cutting. In these positions we were left for the rest of the
day more or less in peace.

In spite of a slight set-back it had been a glorious day for the 8th Battalion. There was really
no comparison between this battle and that of September 29th. The attack on September 29th
was undoubtedly more spectacular, but in our humble judgment, having regard to the extremely
short notice received, the strength of the enemy and the many difficulties encountered, the
breaking of the Fonsomme Line on October 3rd may truly be counted as one of the most gallant
exploits of the whole war.

Where one and all did so well and so many gallant deeds were performed it is difficult to single
out any for special praise, but it is desired to note specially the good work of the following
in addition to those already mentioned: Sergt. H. Wilson, L.-Sergt. Wicks, Corpl. Clark, L.-Corpl.
Creamer, and Pvtes. Draper, Crowe, Slater, Wesley, Starr, Baxter, Jackson, and Martin. The
day, however, had cost us much. Our casualties were one Officer and 20 other ranks (including
Sergt. Gurdens) killed, and three Officers (2nd Lieuts. T. F. Mitchell, who died the next day,
Barker, and F. T. W. Saunders), and 86 other ranks wounded.

Captain Homan had his Regimental Aid Post with Battalion Headquarters in a dug-out in the sunken
road near our jumping-off line. Here he and Padre Sturt worked for something like 24 hours
on end, attending to the wounded, though both badly gassed, whilst a willing band of Stretcher
Bearers again performed a prodigious amount of work under most trying circumstances. Particular
praise is due to Corpls. Wrigglesworth and J. Wright, and to Pvtes. L. Thomas and F. Green,
the latter of whom was awarded a bar and the former a second bar to his M.M., for gallant work
on this occasion.

It was impossible to estimate the actual number of prisoners captured by us, as there was one
"pool" for the whole Brigade, but undoubtedly we had a very large share of the total, which
was 36 Officers and nearly 1,500 other ranks; in addition to which large numbers were left
on the ground dead. Of machine guns too, we captured a very large number, but owing to the
impossibility of collecting them, little idea of the total could be formed.

During much of the day Horse Artillery and numbers of light rapid-moving Tanks, known as "Whippets,"
had been waiting in the valleys behind Joncourt, ready to push on once the line was broken,
and endeavour to make a clean break through. Unfortunately their services could not be used,
and once more they had to withdraw.

Late at night we got news that we were being relieved by the 4th Leicesters. They turned up
alright to take over from B and C Companies, but owing to some error failed to relieve A and
D, who were left holding the line, with little ammunition and no rations, and were not relieved
until the afternoon of October 4th, when they made their way back to the valley just in front
of Magny-la-Fosse and joined the rest of the Battalion in tents and bivouacs put up by "Tony"
Bradish and Hallam, with the help of the Battle Details. "Bedder" too, was there, with Regt.-Quarter-Master-Sergt.
Pritchard (who during these strenuous times had to carry on without a Quarter-Master), and
the four Quarter-Master-Sergeants, all of whom did their utmost to make everyone comfortable.

CHAPTER XVII

THE LAST FIGHT

  October 4th, 1918.                  November 11th, 1918.

Such impromptu cleaning up as was possible, was carried out during what remained of October
4th, and we felt much better. We also carried out a certain amount of reorganisation of Companies,
which were now thinning rather more rapidly than we cared for, but the opportune arrival of
85 reinforcements at this moment, helped us considerably. The enemy caused a certain amount
of annoyance, and a few casualties, by every now and then firing in our direction with a high-velocity
gun, and at night dropped a few bombs uncomfortably near, so that it was not quite as peaceful
as we should have liked.

The next morning we were rather disturbed at hearing that there was more work to be done. The
32nd Division on our right had suffered heavy casualties in trying to get hold of Sequehart,
and the 139th Brigade was now detailed to relieve some of their exhausted troops. At this moment
our Brigade was attached to the 6th Division. Rapid reconnaissance was made during the day,
and at night we relieved the 97th Brigade. So heavy had their casualties been that our three
Companies for the front line and support each relieved a Battalion. These were Dorsets, Highland
Light Infantry and Royal Scots.

The line taken over ran through the village of Sequehart, and was the extreme right of the
British front, next to the French. C Company were on the right, D on the left, astride the
cross roads, with B in support and A in reserve. C Company had the unusual privilege of forming
an "International Post" with the French, and Corpl. Simpson, who spoke the language, was put
in charge of our part of the garrison. We cannot say that after our visits to the French Headquarters,
we felt we quite knew where their front line was, but possibly it was our fault. When they
suggested "we are here," we certainly thought they were somewhere else, but we managed very
well, and materially assisted them in an attack on the 7th, by conforming to their movements
and giving them flank support, and their Commanding Officer expressed his grateful thanks for
our help.

We have before spoken of "Bloody Ypres." The Officer Commanding D Company is reported to have
applied the superlative of the same expressive word to this sector, but then he had cause for
doing so, for during the two days the Battalion held it, his Company Headquarters got five
direct hits. Perhaps under such circumstances, he was slightly embittered! During the time
we were there, the enemy hardly ceased to shell the village--not desultory shelling, but veritable
barrages from end to end. It had already changed hands three times, and we wondered if they
were going to try and turn us out! Signs of fierce struggles were on every hand. In the streets
and all around lay bodies still unburied, both of our own and the enemy's. It was a ghastly
place to be in. Signallers and linesmen had a particularly rough time, and lines were down
almost continuously.

October 6th, was a particularly bad day, as we lost Col. Dempster and the Second-in-Command
(Capt. C. P. Elliott), both wounded. They had gone to see how things were going on in the forward
area, and on returning to Headquarters, which was in a dug-out behind Levergies, they were
unfortunate enough to be in the neighbourhood of a dump of shells by the roadside at the same
moment as a Hun gunner dropped a shell right on the dump. The result was that both these Officers
began to soar skywards, as if off for their "harp and wings divine," but eventually found themselves
on mother earth once more, the Commanding Officer badly shaken and cut about the face, the
strap of his tin hat broken by the force of the explosion, and Pynsent Elliott finding that
for some little time he would have to take his meals off the mantelpiece! The Commanding Officer
was anxious to be allowed to remain with us, but eventually was persuaded otherwise, and they
both left for the Dressing Station, and Major V. O. Robinson, M.C., of the 6th Battalion, was
sent to take over temporary command.

The following night we were relieved by the Monmouths, who had orders to clear out the Boche
from some machine gun nests on the Sequehart-Mericourt Road the next morning, in conjunction
with an attack by the 6th Division on the left, and French on the right. Relief was complete
about midnight, and we marched back to Lehaucourt, where we spent the following day. On October
9th, Col. Dempster returned, though not looking at all well. Major Robinson remained with us
as Second-in-Command, as Major Andrews had left a few days previously, to attend the Senior
Officers' Course at Aldershot. A day or two later Capt. Miners was appointed Adjutant, and
was succeeded in command of C Company by 2nd Lieut. Druce.

Things were now moving rapidly. Although the gallant attack by the Monmouths had been repulsed
with heavy casualties, their action had enabled the 6th Division to get on, and eventually
surround the enemy and capture the lot. The enemy then withdrew more quickly, closely followed
by the 138th Brigade, who led the pursuit. On October 9th, we moved to Levergies, and the next
day to Mericourt, where we went into bivouacs. This village was just on the West of Fresnoy-le-Grand,
which was entered by the 138th Brigade the same morning.

We now took a little more interest in life. Everyone was feeling better for the rest, and found
the rapid movement quite entertaining, especially as we were now approaching civilisation again.
Fresnoy was the first town of any size that we reached; though showing distinct signs of shelling
here and there, it was not badly damaged. It was interesting to see the Boche "War Savings
Campaign" posters, and probably the most interesting specimen, painted all over the gable end
of a house, represented "John Bull" on his Island, tearing his hair in a perfect frenzy, with
"U" Boats all around him! Here, too, there were many inhabitants, who were of course delighted
to see us. Much of the land was under cultivation, and we had really come to the end of that
desolate region which was so distasteful to us all.

On October 12th, we moved a further step forward, and that afternoon reached Jonnecourt Farm,
between Fresnoy and Bohain. Just before leaving we had all welcomed back Col. Currin, more
or less recovered from his wound, and with his arrival Col. Dempster left us. Jonnecourt Farm
was somewhat damaged, and said to be mined, so we put up our bivouacs and tents in the open
just by it. The farm had been captured only a few days before by our Cavalry, and we had the
uncongenial task of burying the bodies of those who had been killed in the attack. We now had
a few days peace, and were able to refit, bath at the old German baths in Fresnoy, which were
excellently fitted up, and reorganise our diminished forces. A pleasing little ceremony was
performed here, when the "Congratulatory Cards" from the Divisional Commander for the N.C.O.'s
and men, who had been recommended for good work during the recent fighting, were presented
to them by the Commanding Officer at a Battalion Parade, ending up with the Battalion marching
past the recipients whilst the band played the Regimental March.

We were not left here for long, there being more "dirty work" to be done yet. The 138th Brigade
had been joined by the 137th Brigade, and together they were now held up about the Bois-de-Riquerval,
East of Bohain, where some tough fighting had been going on, the enemy rear-guard making a
stout defence, so as to give his main body time to get away. With the object, therefore, of
clearing the whole of this front and pushing the enemy back to the Sambre-Oise Canal, a general
attack was arranged to take place on October 17th, by the IX Corps in conjunction with the
French on the right, and the Americans on the left, the 46th Division being ordered to clear
the enemy from the Bois-de-Riquerval and the Andigny-les-Fermes Ridge.

On October 16th, we received orders for the attack, which was to take place early the following
morning. The 138th Brigade were to attack on the left of the 139th Brigade whilst the 137th
Brigade were to hold their present line on the right. The attack of the 139th Brigade was to
be on a one Battalion front, and we were selected to carry out the attack, with two Companies
of the 5th Battalion in close support, the remainder of the Brigade being in reserve. The objective
(The "Blue Line") was the line of the Andigny-les-Fermes-Bohain Road, the consolidation of
which was to include two strong points, one being the hamlet of Regnicourt. Royal Engineers
were allotted to us to help in the consolidation, and posts were to be pushed forward South
of this road. The two Companies of the 5th Battalion had two tasks allotted. One was to move
through our right Company, after the objective had been captured, occupy a small length of
trench there, and seize a small wood, so as to protect our right from possible counter-attack
from Hennechies Wood. The other was to follow our centre Company, mop up any enemy left in
the elements of trenches in that Company's area, and help to mop up Regnicourt itself.

Tanks were to assist in the operation, one moving down our right boundary, and helping to mop
up the trenches on the extreme right, and two others working along the high ground on the left,
and assisting if required in the capture of Regnicourt, proceeding thence to help the 138th
Brigade at Andigny-les-Fermes.

A glance at the map will show that the attack was at right angles to the general line of our
advance, which was North East. It was therefore impossible for our guns to fire the normal
barrage, and the attack had to be carried out under an enfilade barrage, working forward on
the leap-frog principle. This was difficult to lay correctly, and the greatest care had to
be taken that troops forming up were well clear of it. After three minutes on the opening line
it was to advance at the rate of 100 yards every three minutes. One round of smoke shell was
to be fired at each lift, which obviously would not be so easy to identify as in the case of
an overhead barrage. A smoke curtain was also to be fired on the Northern edge of the Forêt
d'Andigny. The Life Guards Machine Gun Battalion were to help with their barrage, also a Company
of the 6th Machine Gun Battalion. Three sections of our own Machine Gun Battalion were allotted
to us, to be used mainly in defence against possible counter-attacks, and a section from the
139th Trench Mortar Battery, to assist in the capture of Regnicourt.

In order to help matters on our front a "Chinese" or "Dummy" attack was arranged to take place
on the front of the 137th Brigade on the right. Dummy Tanks and figures were to be placed in
position during the night, so as to appear at dawn as if attacking the Bois-de-Riquerval from
the West, whilst a rolling barrage was arranged to move through the wood in order to give a
further idea of an attack being in progress there, and, it was hoped, bring down some of the
enemy's barrage in that quarter.

During the afternoon of October 16th, a reconnaissance was made by the Commanding Officer,
Second-in-Command, and Company Commanders. During this operation, which was interrupted by
a fierce bombardment of our lines, an old lady could be seen quietly moving her household effects
on a wheelbarrow down that portion of the Vaux-Andigny Road running between our lines and the
enemy's.

Leaving our surplus stores, bivouacs and other paraphernalia at Jonnecourt Farm, we moved off
about 10.30 p.m., Col. Currin having previously harangued us in no uncertain way, and in a
manner truly characteristic. On reaching the outskirts of Bohain, we turned off to the right
and proceeded by a track previously taped out by the Royal Engineers, so as to relieve the
roads of traffic, and avoid going through the town. On reaching the quarry East of Bohain,
just off the Bohain-Vaux-Andigny Road, we halted, and had an excellent issue of hot porridge,
tea and rum--our cookers having gone up to that point beforehand. Pack mules and limbers with
ammunition and other stores, were a little further behind, but near enough to be got forward
quickly if required during the battle. On this occasion the ammunition supply was well arranged,
thanks to the good work of "Bedder" and "Tommy" Tomlinson, who got pack mules forward in the
attack with Lewis gun "drums" just at the right moment, to the accompaniment of some very expressive
language on the part of the Transport men.

We moved on again between 2 and 3 a.m., and without difficulty reached and formed up on our
jumping-off line, which had been previously taped out by the Brigade Major, Capt. Grinling,
about 70 yards South of the Bohain-Vaux-Andigny Road. We had three Companies in the front line,
A (Toyne, in the absence of Thomas on leave) on the right; B (Geary) in the centre; and C (Druce)
on the left; whilst D (Warner), in support behind C Company, was in the vicinity of Vallée
Hasard Farm. Battalion Headquarters and the Regimental Aid Post were at a house near the road.
A and B Companies each had attached half a section of Royal Engineers from the 465th Field
Company. Two Companies of the 5th Battalion were in rear, and the rest of that Battalion were
more or less dug in under the woods on our right. The 6th Battalion were in reserve North-West
of the road. All troops were in position by 3.45 a.m. on October 17th. Our actual forming up
line was in the area of the 6th Division, who had been holding the front we were attacking;
they withdrew from this line some time before "zero" so as to give us a free course.

The frontage allotted to us was about 1,200 yards, each of the leading Companies thus having
approximately 400 yards. This was a long space to cover, especially now that our numbers were
so diminished that we had been forced to reduce platoons to three sections instead of four.
Each of the leading Companies had three platoons in the front line, with sections in blobs,
and one platoon in support, whilst D Company was formed in a rectangle with a platoon at each
corner, and Company Headquarters in the centre, the three sections of each platoon being arranged
in a kind of arrowhead.

Zero was 5.20 a.m. The barrage came down punctually, and we started forward to our last attack.
There was a certain amount of mist which developed into a dense fog, and was doubtless intensified
by our own smoke shells. A troop of our Cavalry in the vicinity of the Vaux-Andigny road put
their gas masks on, and were last seen moving along the road in that "get-up."

It is pretty safe to say that everyone was lost almost immediately, and as a consequence we
wandered out of our course, a fact which was destined to give us much trouble. It was also
impossible to judge the lifts of the barrage, so that there was great confusion, and things
for a long while did not go at all well. On this occasion, too, compasses do not appear to
have proved of great avail. C Company on the left kept going for some time alright, and got
possession of some high ground after overcoming, under the excellent leadership of 2nd Lieut.
Druce, some opposition from machine gun nests, though some of these were missed owing to the
fog. Then they wandered off in an Easterly direction and got on to the 138th Brigade area on
our left, and later, when the fog cleared, they found themselves nearly at Andigny-les-Fermes.
B Company in the centre went on until they were held up by unbroken wire, and heavy machine
gun fire from the Regnicourt Ridge, and from a clearing in the centre of the Battalion area.
Their Commander, Capt. Geary, was killed by machine gun fire after leading his men with the
greatest bravery. On many previous occasions he had done excellent work, and his loss was most
keenly felt. A Company on the right soon lost touch with B, but got on until they reached a
position near the railway track, in spite of having had a very nasty time and many casualties
from the machine guns in the same clearing.

D Company lost touch with everyone at first, and got completely split up. Company Headquarters
were lucky enough to run into a Boche machine gun post, which they cleared with much skill,
capturing 11 men, and putting the two guns out of action. Then they decided to try and find
Battalion Headquarters, as they concluded they must have got too far forward. By a somewhat
circuitous route they eventually succeeded in doing so, and found that Col. Currin had also
had difficulty in getting to his advanced Headquarters, which was no more than a "Map Reference."
Of the rest of D Company, three platoons got across to the right of our front and did good
work there, particularly 2nd Lieut. Newton and his platoon, who were of great assistance to
A Company. A great feat was performed by some members of the other platoon of D Company, who
had kept their direction on the left towards Regnicourt. Having run up against a couple of
machine guns, Sergt. Robinson and L.-Corpl. Harper went forward to reconnoitre the position,
and finding it strongly held, went back for the rest of the platoon. With a combination of
"fire and movement" they succeeded in getting round the flank of the post and rushing it. L.-Corpl.
Harper, who stood up when only a few yards from the post in order to be able to aim more accurately,
was shot through the head, and L.-Corpl. Coombes at once rushed forward, shot six Germans with
his revolver, and finished off the last man who was trying to run away with his Lewis gun.

When news of all these happenings duly reached him by runners, stragglers and other means.
Col. Currin collected all the oddments who had wandered to his Headquarters, and sent them
forward under Major Robinson to push the enemy out of the clearing between B and C Companies.
The fog had to a certain extent cleared by this time, but it was still not easy to keep direction.
Very soon, however, it lifted altogether, and the party found itself on the Western edge of
the clearing and fired at by the enemy both from the clearing and from the ridge towards their
right front, from which the enemy were also firing into the rear of B Company, who had gone
past them.

The party now advanced by bounds, and was throughout most gallantly led by Major Robinson,
who went out absolutely unarmed, but later managed to get a Boche pistol lent him, which he
very soon lost. Knowing him as we do we are not surprised that such a small matter did not
worry him in the least! Eventually they got possession of a trench on the ridge, which afforded
them a certain amount of cover. The garrison of this trench, about 10 men with a machine gun,
were very fortunate in receiving quarter, as they fired on our advancing line up to the last
minute, and then threw up their hands. Most of the trouble now came from machine guns about
half right, and it was determined to round them up. At this point Sergt. Winson, of C Company,
did most excellent work. Regardless of all risk he kept his Lewis gun trained on the enemy,
whilst a party worked round their right flank, first by crawling over to a small clearing,
and then rushing the post from there. This manoeuvre was entirely successful, six machine guns,
and about 40 prisoners being captured.

At the same time that part of C Company, which had wandered away to the left, turned back and
moved towards the high ground East of Regnicourt. The enemy in the clearing now realised that
they were more or less surrounded, and after little more resistance surrendered, 27 machine
guns and 140 prisoners being taken from this small area. A Company of the 5th Battalion under
our old Regimental Quarter-Master Sergt., now Capt. Dench, arrived shortly afterwards and took
up a position in the clearing as a reserve.

A Company on the right had fared very badly, having met with heavy machine gun and rifle fire
and suffered many casualties, including their commander. Lieut. Toyne, who was wounded, and
2nd Lieut. Jacques, killed, leaving the Company under the command of 2nd Lieut. Shackleton.
Eventually, owing to their exposed position they had to retire slightly, but later were reinforced
by two Companies from the 5th Battalion, and together they were able, after some very stiff
fighting, to dislodge the enemy and get their objective. Lieut. Thomas of the 465th Field Company,
Royal Engineers, did some very gallant work here in reorganising parties and leading them forward
in attempts to get on, and the greatest praise is due to him for his splendid efforts.

Major Robinson's party, after getting the Ridge, pushed on to Regnicourt Village, where they
found some of the Leicesters, who had wandered on to our front. Just beyond, one of our Tanks
had broken down, and had a very rough time before its crew could be rescued. It was now about
10.15 a.m. Capt. Warner was put in charge of the front line with orders to consolidate, and
he accordingly reorganised the odd parties of men he found under his command, and began to
establish strong points South of the Andigny-les-Fermes-Bohain Road. Some trouble was caused
at this time by a German field gun inside Hennechies Wood, which was firing on these parties
at point blank range. Once its position was located, however, it was not long before our Gunners
forced it to withdraw, and the posts were eventually established.

About 11 a.m. the enemy were seen massing for a counter-attack about 1,500 yards away on our
right front, but we got the guns of the whole "group" turned on to the area in a very short
time, and the Boches were completely broken, only a half-hearted attempt being made, and only
one man reaching our lines.

By noon the enemy in the Forêt d'Andigny must have begun to feel that with the 138th Brigade--who
had now captured the village of Andigny-les-Fermes--on their right flank, and the 137th Brigade
and ourselves on their left, it was time they were moving, for a patrol which we pushed out
towards the wood found it occupied only by a few odd machine guns. Major Robinson himself took
charge of this patrol, which consisted of a platoon of B Company, under Comp. Sergt.-Major
Cobb. On one or two occasions, owing to their small numbers they had to creep round to avoid
these machine guns, but they escaped without accident, and after proceeding a distance of something
like 2,000 yards in a South-Eastern direction, they eventually found a French post about 100
yards South of "Forester's House." The "poilus" were delighted to see them, and shewed their
appreciation by giving our men the whole of the contents of their water bottles.

About 5 p.m., Companies having been to some extent reorganised, an outpost line was formed
running due North and South from Hennechies Wood, East of Regnicourt, and joining up on the
left with the 138th Brigade. Later on, the 137th Brigade moved up a Battalion through the wood
to fill the gap between our right flank and the French.

During the attack we captured something like 220 prisoners, and nearly 100 machine guns, besides
inflicting many other casualties. Our own losses, too, were heavy--the heaviest in Officers
that we had experienced in the recent fighting. Besides Geary, we lost 2nd Lieuts. Plant and
Jacques killed, and Lieuts. Toyne and Whitelegge, and 2nd Lieut. John H. Smith wounded, whilst
in other ranks we lost 25 killed or died of wounds, and 54 wounded, including Sergts. Oldham,
Sharrock and Wicks. Deeds of gallantry were conspicuous on all sides, and especially good work
was done by several N.C.O.'s in charge of platoons. Amongst the following, who did particularly
well and have not already been mentioned in connection with the Battle of Regnicourt, are several
who had previously displayed conspicuous courage in other recent battles: Sergts. Shepperson,
Sharrock, Wallis, Scrimshaw, and H. Wilson; Corpls. Watson and Francis; L.-Corpls. Slater,
Creamer (killed), Robinson and Beech, and Pvtes. Wesley, Houghton, Martin, Draper, Jackson,
Berresford, C. Smith, Vipond, Lees, Turpin and Roe.

In a way it was an unsatisfactory day, and we feel we have hardly had our deserts for the gallant
work done by all ranks against an enemy holding in much greater strength much more strongly
fortified positions than had been anticipated. The fighting was extremely hard, if anything
harder than at Ramicourt, and the greatest possible credit is due to all for the gallant way
they fought, and the great dash and determination they displayed to get their objective. Regnicourt
is apt to be looked on as a small matter, but for the 8th Battalion it was one of the most
strenuously fought battles of the war.

About midnight, we were relieved by the 6th Battalion, and rested for the night just behind
Regnicourt. The following day, as the Brigade had been squeezed out of the line altogether
by the further retirement of the enemy, we were able to withdraw, and in the evening marched
back to Fresnoy. We were met on the road by our Drums, under the leadership of Corpl. (shortly
to become Sergt.-Drummer) Coupe, who had got them to a wonderful state of perfection. They
cheered everyone up, and considerably helped the last part of the march. We were glad to see
General Harington waiting for us just before reaching the village, and his brief "Well done,
Sherwoods" as we passed, was the fullest appreciation of our efforts that we could wish for.

We now had several days complete rest, and were fortunate in getting, almost at once, a draft
of 120 reinforcements, mostly men of the Northumberland Hussars, who had not previously seen
service abroad. They were a good lot, and with their addition we felt more like ourselves once
more; in fact our paper strength now totalled 34 Officers, and 745 other ranks. We had quite
a pleasant time doing a little training, as well as reorganising and cleaning, and devoting
the afternoons to football.

The fighting moving further off each day, we had to move forward on October 29th to Bohain.
This was carried out as a Brigade march, and we entered Bohain with bands playing, and the
civilian population in the streets to welcome us. The town had been knocked about very little,
and the billets were extremely comfortable. Our training here included a route march across
the scene of our recent fighting, in order to imbue the newly arrived with a sense of the honour
they should realise had been done them in posting them to such a fine Battalion!

A great drawback to our advance all this time was the business-like way in which the Boche
had mined the roads and blown up railways. Every railway and river bridge had been systematically
blown up, and mines had been put at every cross roads, and usually in the deep cuttings and
high embankments, so as to give the maximum of trouble in filling and getting past. In many
cases, these mines had actually been blown and all we found were huge craters. In a few cases
delay-action mines had been laid, which did not explode for some little time. All this gave
our Sappers much work to do in reconnoitring road crossings, and other points for signs of
mining where they were not blown, or in arranging for temporary roadways to be constructed,
or craters to be filled in where they had been exploded. But on a larger scale the enemy's
very clever system of working his delay-action mines on the railways, was the biggest nuisance
we had to contend with. The railway having been repaired well forward, a mine would suddenly
go up miles behind, thus preventing trains getting on to the appointed railhead, and so causing
endless worry to the authorities who had to arrange for our supplies coming up. To them this
disorganisation must have been extremely disconcerting, and it went on altogether for nearly
a month. The mines were so cunningly concealed that it was impossible to locate them. In spite
of everything supplies reached us in some marvellous way without a hitch.

On November 3rd, in order to support the 1st and 32nd Divisions, who were to attack the line
of the Sambre-Oise Canal on the following day, and to exploit the success if they broke through,
we moved to the little village of Escaufort. It was a heavy march, the roads were bad, and
we arrived late in the evening soaked through to spend a dreary night in poor billets, many
of which had suffered during the bombardment of the last few days, and in bivouacs. Early the
following morning we pushed on to St. Souplet, where we prepared to stay for the night in a
few old barns. Later in the day, however, news was brought that the attack had been successful,
and we moved on to Catillon, on the Canal. Transport, Quarter-Master's Stores and Battle Details
moved to Mazinghien. The same night we got orders that we were to pass through the 1st Division
and 138th Brigade, and take up the pursuit, the following day.

We had been informed that owing to the "blowing" of the bridge over the Canal at Catillon,
we should have to make a détour of several miles with cookers and Lewis gun limbers to get
across by a pontoon bridge, in order to arrive at our point of assembly on the Catillon-La
Groise Road, which was only about 1,000 yards away! We determined to see if we could not find
some other means of doing this, and thanks to a reconnaissance by Major Robinson, we found
that it was possible for Infantry to cross the Canal over débris from the blown up bridge,
though the Transport would have to go round. This was a great boon, as it enabled us to get
breakfast before starting considerably later than would otherwise have been necessary. Capt.
A. Bedford arrived with the rations about 3.0 a.m., we had breakfast at six, and at eight moved
off, being across the Canal, and in our proper position by 8.30. Limbers and cookers joined
us about nine, A Company's cooker having fallen overboard in crossing the pontoon bridge but
having been extricated without damage. We were the only Battalion in the Brigade that day to
start out with a full stomach and our day's rations with us!

Late in the afternoon we moved into poor billets in the village of Mezières, where we stayed
the night, and were joined by Transport, Stores and Battle Details. Bedford worked uncommonly
well, as did also the Quarter-Master's Branch, in getting up rations, which they had to man-handle
over the canal crossing--still impossible for traffic--and reload into our transport limbers.
For all their efforts we were duly thankful.

On November 6th, the 5th Battalion were to attack as the 6th had been held up just West of
Prisches, and we were to move up in support. The method adopted was for the attacking troops
to pass round the village, whilst the support Battalion, pushing one Company on the road as
an advanced guard, moved by platoons at about 50 yards interval. This was now true open warfare,
and there was no organised line of defence. The day's objectives were Prisches and Cartignies.
After an early start we continued our march towards Prisches, the attacking troops meeting
with little opposition, and our advanced guard, A Company, were quickly in after them. The
enemy had gone and we had got possession by 10.30 a.m.

We shall never forget the reception by the inhabitants of Prisches! We were the first of the
relieving troops they had seen, and their feelings at being thus released after four years
of oppression and slavery at the hands of the Hun, found expression in many demonstrations
of joy and gratitude. Civilians of all ages came out to greet us. Their national flags--Heaven
only knows where they came from or how they were concealed from the enemy--were displayed on
all sides, and even before the enemy were clear of the village the Tricolour was floating from
the Church Tower! It was truly a wonderful sight, and a day never to be forgotten. We were
surrounded by offers of coffee and fruit, cider and cognac, plentifully mingled with the tears
and kisses of the grateful inhabitants. Indeed, so insistent were they that progress became
difficult. We eventually, however, managed to establish Battalion Headquarters in a farmhouse
at the East end of the village, where we again had a great reception, and stayed for some refreshment
during a temporary hold-up of the advanced troops.

The attacking troops were to push on through the next village, Cartignies, and establish an
outpost line on the other side of it. So rapid was the retreat, and so certain were we of success,
that whilst at Prisches we despatched Bradish and a party of N.C.O.'s to get our billets there
for the night! In the afternoon we were able to push on with the rest of the Battalion, B Company
forming the advanced guard. On arriving at Cartignies we were met by Bradish, who informed
us that he had made arrangements for billeting us, but that half the village was still in the
hands of the enemy, who were firing on the 5th Battalion with machine guns. The Commanding
Officer whilst reconnoitring near the Church, soon discovered this for himself, so withdrew
diplomatically, deciding that it was not "our war" just then. Accordingly we got into our billets
and posted sentries and Lewis guns at windows and other points for our protection. Owing to
some of the Staffords who were also in the village, deciding to hold their outpost line in
the village, instead of on the other side the river, the clearing of the village was a longer
process than it should have been. It caused us no trouble, but we doubt if Tomlinson and Tebbutt
would have slept so comfortably had they known that their billet was in No Man's Land! However,
all was well; we had had another great reception from the delighted inhabitants, and after
a long and tiring day we were soon asleep in good, comfortable billets.

For the next three days we stayed there, being joined by the Transport and Stores, Battle Details
and several Officers from England, who had never been out before.

The Hun was now going away rapidly, and it was very doubtful if we should be required again.
We never were, and were glad to find we had done with him.

There was talk of an Armistice, and we were also warned that German Envoys were expected, and
might come through our lines. This they did not do and we were not sorry.

On November 10th, we had to move out of Cartignies to a small village, Boulogne-sur-Helpe,
near by--the most Easterly point the Battalion ever reached.

November 11th came in just the same as any other day, but quite early a wire from Brigade Headquarters
stated that the Germans had agreed to our Armistice terms, and the Great War was over.

CHAPTER XVIII

HOME AGAIN

  November 12th, 1918.                July 5th, 1919.

For the next few days we lived in an atmosphere of uncertainty. Were we to be one of the chosen
Divisions to go forward as part of the Army of Occupation, or were we to be left to spend weary
months scavenging in the fair land of France? There may have been a few who did not want to
go on, thinking they would probably lose their chance of an early return home, but in the main
we were anxious to push on and satisfy our souls by actually setting foot on German soil as
part of the Conquering Army. Our hopes fell from day to day as we heard no orders to prepare
to move forward, and eventually, much to our regret, we learnt that after all we were not going
to Germany. It was nearly the end of November when we received the following letter from General
Sir H. S. Rawlinson, commanding the Fourth Army:--"It is a matter of very deep regret to me
that the 46th Division is not accompanying the Fourth Army to the Frontier. I desire, however,
to place on record my appreciation of the splendid performances of the Division during the
recent operations, and to congratulate all ranks on the conspicuous part they have played in
the battles of the 100 days. The forcing of the main Hindenburg line on the Canal, and the
capture of Bellenglise rank as one of the finest and most dashing exploits of the war. The
attacks of October 3rd, and the subsequent operations about Bohain, together with the later
advance towards the Sambre Canal, constitute a record of which all ranks of the Division may
justly feel proud. I offer to all ranks my warmest thanks for their great gallantry, and to
the leaders and staffs my admiration of their skilful direction and staff work throughout these
battles. To every Officer, N.C.O., and man of the Division, I offer my warm thanks and hearty
congratulations, and trust that at some future time they may again form part of the Fourth Army."

On the day after the Armistice, Major-General Boyd came to see us, and presented some medal
ribbons, and in the afternoon an entertaining football match between Officers and N.C.O.'s
was won by the latter, the Officers in a few cases having some difficulty in staying the course.

We left Boulogne-sur-Helpe on November 14th, and marched via Cartignies to Landrecies--a town
which had seen much of the recent fighting, as well as having played a prominent part in the
early days of the war. The whole of the 139th Brigade was concentrated here, and as our stay
was likely to be a lengthy one, we soon set to work to make ourselves comfortable. Most of
the Battalion were billeted in one of the French Barracks, D Company being allotted a school
near by. Though the town had been considerably damaged by shells, our billets were more or
less watertight, and in fairly good order. The Transport and Quarter-Master's Stores were also
in the town close to the Barracks.

On Sunday, November 17th, a Church Parade of the whole Division was held at Landrecies, as
a Thanksgiving Service, and afterwards the Major-General distributed medal ribbons. He paid
us a high compliment as we marched past after the ceremony, when he said that in all his military
career he had never seen a Battalion march past in better style!

The work of clearing the battlefield in the area round about Landrecies began at once. We did
four hours a day at this work on four days a week, and on the other two days carried out ordinary
military training. Education classes were also started and carried on for several months, and
though the numbers who attended were not large, there is no doubt that very much useful work
was done in this way. Lieut. C. M. Bedford was responsible for the educational work at first,
handing it over later to Lieut. Tebbutt. Afternoons were invariably spent in recreation, Inter-Battalion
and Inter-Company "Soccer" matches, cross-country runs, and other sports. There were also "Rugger"
teams in the Division, and later a Brigade Hockey team was formed. A few lucky ones got trips
in Col. Barron's Ambulances to Brussels, Amiens, Valenciennes, and other towns of interest
within reach, but this luxury did not last long. A recreation room at the Barracks was started
for reading and indoor games, whilst Lieut. Pennington got an extraordinarily good Concert
Party going, which was known eventually as "The Penguins" and gave entertainments to several
other units. "Robbo" managed to "scrounge" a piano for them from a ruined house in the town,
and during the dark nights we had much to thank them for. Later on there were whist drives,
and some of the gayer element even went to dances, classes in which gentle art were held by
the 6th Battalion. Padre Sturt, in addition to giving valuable help with the Education Classes,
started a Debating Society, at which many entertaining topics were discussed.

On November 29th, the first batch of miners left for demobilisation, an urgent call having
been made for these men owing to the coal shortage. The batch included several "old hands,"
who had crossed to France with the Battalion in 1915. The remainder were sent off in December,
during which month we lost no fewer than 230.

In the afternoon of December 1st, we were honoured by a visit from the King, the Prince of
Wales, and Prince Albert. They were received by Major-General Boyd and the Mayor, and afterwards
walked through the town surrounded by masses of troops of the Division. It was all delightfully
informal; they had a wonderful reception, and at times found it difficult to get on.

A week later, on December 8th, we were delighted to see a representative from our own County,
in the person of the Duke of Portland. He was accompanied by Cols. Mellish and Foljambe, the
Bishop of Southwell, and Major E. T. Baines, whilst Padre Hales, who was now Deputy Chaplain
General of a neighbouring Corps, also came over for the ceremony. The opportunity was taken
of getting the Duke to present medal ribbons to some Officers and men who had been awarded
decorations during the recent fighting. This was done at a Battalion Parade, at which the Duke
gave a short address, saying that he had brought from the Home County congratulations and greetings
on our work during the last few months. After the Parade the Battalion marched past the Duke
headed by the Brigade band.

The following week a Colour party consisting of Capt. White, 2nd Lieut. James H. Smith, Comp.-Sergt.-Major
Cobb, Sergt. Martin and Sergt. Skelton, having been sent to Newark for the special purpose,
arrived with the Colours, which remained with the Battalion for the rest of our stay in France.

Amongst numerous Officers who joined us in these days we were particularly glad to welcome
our old friend Torrance, who at once resumed the duties of Quarter-Master.

The last item of interest in the great year 1918, was the celebration of Christmas. The only
drawback on this occasion was that we were not able to celebrate it until Boxing Day, owing
to the non-arrival of the necessary feeding stuffs and drinks. Something had gone wrong in
the back regions, a thing which had been going on for some time, as canteen stores were always
short, and rations at no other period of the war were so scarce or poor. We poured curses on
the Royal Army Service Corps, and all connected with them, but to no purpose. Boxing day, however,
will live long in our memory. There was plenty of food and drink, and all sorts of other good
things, towards the purchase of which we had been largely helped by money presents from friends
at home. Each Company had its own dinner, followed by a concert. The Major-General visited
every Company, and was greeted with the greatest enthusiasm. He wished every one a happy time
and prosperity in the New Year. The children of Landrecies also had a treat, being given a
special show by the Divisional Cinema, and a sumptuous feed, and we venture to think they will
not forget Christmas 1918 for many a long day--they had certainly not had one like it during
the previous four years. Col. Barron and his excellent Quarter-Master, Major Moreton, of our
Field Ambulance, were largely responsible for the feed, whilst we helped to buy toys.

It took us some time to get over Christmas. In fact, Christmas at Landrecies in 1918 lasted
several days, and was full of incident! As soon as the New Year came in--on January 3rd, 1919--we
moved once more to Prisches, where a fresh area was allotted us to clear. Here we carried on
in much the same way as at Landrecies, but owing to demobilisation having become more general,
we were losing men daily and our numbers were gradually but surely dropping. Early in the New
Year Major Robinson left us to rejoin the 6th Battalion, and Major Andrews resumed duty as
Second-in-Command.

On February 19th, we began a Westward move to be nearer railhead, marching that day to Bazuel,
and the following day to Bethencourt, near Caudry, from which place we were destined finally
to be scattered to the four winds. From here we sent back most of our horses and mules, with
others from the Brigade, to an Auction sale at Prisches, where they were sold in a most entertaining
manner by a French Auctioneer at good prices to the local inhabitants. Our Transport vehicles
were sent to the Divisional Park at Caudry.

The same sort of work and play and demobilisation continued, and at the end of April we were
left with only nine Officers and 52 other ranks. Officers and men who were not demobilised
went mostly to the 51st and 52nd Sherwood Foresters (Young Soldiers Battalions), or to Prisoners
of War Camps at Nancy and Péronne. Eventually in June, Col. Currin and the Cadre left for England,
leaving behind only a baggage guard under Capt. Warner, who came home in July. Col. Currin
and his party arrived at Newark late on June 21st, and the official welcome took place on June
23rd, when the Mayor met them at the Town Hall, and the Colours were once more placed at the
Drill Hall. With the Colonel were Regimental Sergt.-Major Mounteney, Comp. Quarter-Master Sergt.
Bee, Sergt. Blunt, L.-Corpl. Tuckwood, and Pvte. Durand. With the exception of two short periods
when he was away sick or wounded, Regimental Sergt.-Major Mounteney served with us the whole
of our stay in France. Both in and out of the line he rendered most valuable service to the
Battalion, and even in the darkest hours we were always sure of his cheerful help.

On July 5th, a Memorial Service was held at Southwell Cathedral, for the Nottinghamshire men
who had fallen in the war. After the ceremony, the men of the Battalion who were present, were
entertained to tea in the schools at Southwell, and Col. Huskinson took that opportunity of
thanking the ladies of the County for their kind help during the war. We feel sure, that though
on this occasion they are put last, they will none the less accept our kind appreciation of
all the work they were at such pains to do, and for the thousands of comforts they got together
and sent out to us.

From the time we left England to final disembodiment no fewer than 193 Officers, and 2,650
other ranks served with the Battalion. There were 21 deaths from sickness and four fatal accidents.
Battle casualties amounted to 26 Officers, and 447 other ranks killed, or died of wounds, and
64 Officers, and 1,400 other ranks wounded. Such a tragic total, however, cannot wholly be
a measure of the trials and vicissitudes of three-and-a-half years' fighting. If in this record
we have succeeded in conveying an impression to those who were not so fortunate as to be with
us, or in reminding those who were, of courage, dogged perseverance, and unselfish devotion
to duty in action, of pleasures, humour and happier times at rest, our efforts may not, perhaps,
be without value in the days that are to come.

  "Speak! Was our course well run? Is there aught wherewith to upbraid us?
  Have we fled from the thunder of battle, or flinched at the lightning's
    track?
  Answer! What need of answer? By the God of Truth who hath made us,
  Thou knowest the Flag went forward, and never a foot went back!"

                    "THE LAST MUSTER," by J. S. Arkwright.

APPENDIX I.

ROLL OF HONOUR

List of those who were Killed, or Died of Wounds or Sickness.

OFFICERS.

  1915.

  April 22--2nd Lieut. J. R. Eddison

  June   6--Capt. H. G. Wright
   "    15--Lieut. A. F. O. Dobson
   "    15--2nd Lieut. W. H. Hollins
  Oct.  13--2nd Lieut. R. E. Hemingway
   "    14--2nd Lieut. E. F. S. Handford
   "    14--Capt. H. B. S. Handford
   "    14--2nd Lieut. E. S. Strachan
   "    15--Lieut.-Col. G. H. Fowler
   "    25--2nd Lieut. G. H. Fisher
  Nov.  12--Lieut. C. M. Houfton

  1916.

  Jan.   1--Major J. P. Becher
  Dec.  20--2nd Lieut. L. E. King-Stephens

  1917.

  March  4--Lieut. R. A. Abrams
  April 23--2nd Lieut. W. P. Duff
   "    23--2nd Lieut. E. Hopkinson
  Aug.  30--2nd Lieut. D. Tanner
  Oct.  27--2nd Lieut. J. H. Hofmeyr

  1918.

  April 29--Capt. H. K. Simonet
  Sept.  6--2nd Lieut. C. J. Elly
   "    29--Lieut. S. E. Cairns
  Oct.   3--2nd Lieut. A. D. H. Dunkin
   "     4--2nd Lieut. T. F. Mitchell
   "    17--Capt. A. E. Geary
   "    17--2nd Lieut. R. S. Plant
   "    17--2nd Lieut. W. G. Jacques

  OTHER RANKS.

  1914.

  Sept. 28--Drummer R. Baker
  Nov.  17--Pvte. S. Shelton

  1915.

  April  6--Pvte. J. Hyde
   "    11--Pvte. P. Richardson
   "    12--Pvte. D. Smith
   "    12--Pvte. A. Frary
   "    13--Pvte. W. R. Copley
   "    15--Pvte. A. E. Hopewell
   "    20--Pvte. H. Trickett
   "    20--Pvte. J. Wright
   "    21--Pvte. T. Murden
   "    21--Pvte. A. Bates
   "    21--Pvte. F. Adams
   "    21--Pvte. J. Berresford
   "    21--Sergt. G. Wilmore
   "    21--Pvte. T. H. Mayman
   "    22--Pvte. H. Sketchley
   "    23--Pvte. H. Stevenson
   "    23--Pvte. W. Taylor
   "    24--Pvte. W. Hunt
   "    24--Pvte. C. Redmile
   "    24--Pvte. W. Godfrey
   "    24--Pvte. C. Hibbert
   "    24--Pvte. R. East
   "    24--Pvte. J. Bonner
   "    24--Pvte. H. Grant
   "    24--Pvte. H. Husband
   "    24--Pvte. W. Johnson
   "    24--Pvte. W. Pattison
   "    24--L.-Corpl. W. Ashley
   "    24--Pvte. A. E. Hincks
   "    24--Pvte. H. Randall
   "    24--Pvte. E. Worthington
  April 29--Pvte. J. Brindley
   "    30--Pvte. H. Foster
   "    30--L.-Corpl. E. Markwell
  May    2--L.-Corpl. C. Land
   "     2--Corpl. E. Parker
   "     8--Pvte. H. Kirk
   "     8--Pvte. A. V. Soar
   "     8--L.-Corpl. W. H. Ridgard
   "    10--L.-Corpl. A. Priestley
   "    17--Pvte. E. Eaton
   "    24--Pvte. W. Widnall
   "    24--Pvte. T. Hardy
   "    25--Pvte. H. Spademan
  June   5--Pvte. R. Mills
   "     6--Pvte. T. Massey
   "    12--Pvte. F. Paling
   "    14--Corpl. C. J. Wilson
   "    15--Corpl. F. Wilcox
   "    15--Pvte. A. E. Armitage
   "    15--Pvte. F. Hill
   "    15--Pvte. B. Cox
   "    15--Pvte. P. May
   "    15--Pvte. R. W. Moakes
   "    15--Pvte. W. Richardson
   "    15--Pvte. O. L. Bryan
   "    15--Pvte. A. Cook
   "    16--Pvte. G. Richardson
   "    24--Pvte. W. H. Hird
   "    27--L.-Corpl. J. Churn
   "    27--Pvte. F. Edwards
   "    27--Pvte. C. E. Stones
  July  12--Pvte. E. Robinson
   "    16--Pvte. G. Tinker
   "    16--Corpl. F. Godson
   "    18--Corpl. E. Dewsnap
   "    20--Pvte. E. Richardson
   "    21--Pvte. C. Taylor
   "    21--Pvte. G. Hinton
   "    22--Pvte. J. Bowskill
   "    25--Pvte. J. Watson
   "    30--Pvte. J. W. Jubb
   "    30--Pvte. J. Rudkin
   "    30--Pvte. F. Walster
   "    30--Pvte. C. Thorpe
   "    30--Pvte. R. Downham
   "    30--Pvte. S. Oliver
   "    30--Pvte. R. Huckerby
   "    30--Pvte. F. Ingham
   "    30--Pvte. F. Parker
   "    30--Pvte. C. Lines
   "    30--Pvte. A. Woodhead
   "    30--Pvte. A. Coy
   "    30--Pvte. J. Rossington
   "    30--Pvte. A. R. Walker
   "    30--Pvte. H. Taylor
   "    30--Pvte. H. W. Raynor
   "    31--Corpl. S. Humberstone
   "    31--L.-Corpl. I. Webster
   "    31--Corpl. R. J. Hotson
   "    31--Pvte. T. Davidson
  August 1--Pvte. J. Hopewell
   "     1--Pvte. H. H. Turner
   "     4--Pvte. J. W. Lee
   "     5--Pvte. C. Crampton
   "     7--Pvte. H. Moore
   "     7--Pvte. A. Scott
   "     8--Sergt. A. Phillipson
   "     8--L.-Corpl. P. Scott
   "     8--Pvte. A. Smith
   "     8--Pvte. F. Gumsley
   "     8--Pvte. E. King
   "    13--L.-Sergt. E. Layhe
   "    14--Pvte. G. E. Fletcher
   "    14--Pvte. A. Walsham
   "    14--Pvte. W. Kirkham
   "    14--Corpl. G. C. Higham
   "    17--Pvte. J. A. Saunders
   "    30--Pvte. G. W. Cartwright
   "    30--Pvte. G. Richards
  Sept.  3--Pvte. H. Key
   "    10--Pvte. L. Smith
   "    12--Pvte. A. Wesson
   "    16--Pvte. W. T. Marshall
   "    19--Pvte. G. Barker
   "    25--L.-Corpl. T. Humphrey
   "    25--Pvte. L. Hayes
   "    28--Pvte. R. Gray
   "    29--Drummer J. Newton
  Oct.   5--L.-Corpl. E. Hale
   "     5--Pvte. J. R. Roe
   "     5--L.-Sergt. C. E. Harrison
   "     8--Pvte. N. Chadbourne
   "    14--Sergt. C. E. Cox
   "    14--L.-Corpl. A. Spencer
   "    14--Corpl. J. C. Simpson
   "    14--Pvte. E. Mecklenburgh
   "    14--Corpl. W. Wardle
   "    14--L.-Corpl. E. Clay
   "    14--L.-Corpl. W. J. Herepath
   "    14--L.-Corpl. A. H. Hardy
   "    14--Pvte. A. Baldwinson
   "    14--Pvte. H. L. Smith
   "    14--Pvte. E. Kirk
   "    14--Pvte. J. W. Renshaw
   "    14--Pvte. C. Stimsom
   "    14--Pvte. S. P. Huggins
   "    14--Pvte. L. H. Flint
  Oct.  14--Pvte. F. W. Coleman
   "    14--Pvte. G. Simms
   "    14--Pvte. A.  Fotheringham
   "    14--Pvte. S. H. Lister
   "    14--Pvte. A. Pettinger
   "    14--Pvte. A. Hazzard
   "    14--Sergt. M. Millband
   "    14--L.-Corpl. H. E. Woodhead
   "    14--Pvte. J. Dodsworth
   "    14--Corpl. J. Sharman
   "    14--L.-Corpl. B. C. Vick
   "    14--Pvte. A. Hazlewood
   "    14--Pvte. H. Cook
   "    14--Pvte. C. S. Harrison
   "    14--Pvte. H. Wilkinson
   "    14--Pvte. A. Eyre
   "    14--Pvte. E. C. Phillipson
   "    14--Pvte. W. Anthony
   "    14--Pvte. F. Farrand
   "    14--Pvte. A. B. Smith
   "    14--Pvte. W. Thompson
   "    14--Pvte. G. Seymour
   "    14--Pvte. F. Bryan
   "    14--Sergt. H. Hall
   "    14--Pvte. A. Moyses
   "    15--Pvte. W. Radford
   "    15--Sergt. G. F. Foster
   "    15--Pvte. S. Broughton
   "    16--Pvte. R. Taylor
   "    18--L.-Corpl. F. J. Lowe
   "    22--Pvte. A. Woolley
   "    27--Pvte. E. Chilvers
   "    30--Pvte. R. Hurt
  Nov.  22--Sergt. A. Sheppard
  Dec.   2--Pvte. C. H. Cliffe
   "     8--Pvte. C. Redfern

  1916.

  March 20--Pvte. J. Evans
   "    21--Pvte. F. Footitt
   "    25--Pvte. E. Gilbert
   "    28--Pvte. C. E. Ellis
  April  4--Pvte. J. E. Easton
   "     4--Pvte. A. Wright
   "     4--Pvte. F. Johnson
   "     4--Pvte. J. W. Hempsall
   "     5--Pvte. E. A. Hill
   "    15--Pvte. G. Wilcockson
   "    15--Pvte. L. Chandlee
   "    17--Sergt. W. H. Markham
   "    17--Pvte. W. North
   "    17--Pvte. E. H. Mutton
   "    18--Pvte. H. Ellis
   "    18--Pvte. E. Nelson
   "    18--Pvte. W. Robinson
   "    18--L.-Corpl. J. Footitt
   "    18--Pvte. G. Marriott
   "    18--Pvte. G. H. Johnson
   "    18--Pvte. L. J. Moore
   "    20--Pvte. H. Hicking
   "    20--Pvte. T. B. Terry
   "    25--Pvte. C. Wells
  June   3--Pvte. H. Skillington
   "    20--Pvte. A. E. Pulford
   "    20--Pvte. J. Fogg
   "    20--Pvte. G. A. Bingley
   "    20--Pvte. L. Tyers
   "    20--Pvte. T. Stout
   "    24--Pvte. A. Froggatt
   "    24--Pvte. J. W. Moor
   "    24--Pvte. A. English
   "    24--Pvte. T. Cope
   "    25--Pvte. M. Johnson
   "    25--L.-Corpl. A. E. Sooley
   "    26--Pvte. E. Toyne
   "    26--Corpl. W. G. Moore
   "    26--Pvte. E. Judson
   "    27--L.-Corpl. A. A. Grant
   "    27--Pvte. F. W. Bonser
  July   1--Pvte. F. Clarke
   "     1--Corpl. E. Allen
   "     1--Pvte. J. W. Edwards
   "     1--Pvte. G. Seagrave
   "     1--Corpl. S. Matthews
   "     1--Corpl. J. J. Alvey
   "     1--Pvte. T. F. Barlow
   "     3--Pvte. A. Bousfield
   "     6--Pvte. G. Talbot
   "    10--Pvte. G. Jeffery
   "    12--L.-Corpl. W. Young
   "    13--L.-Corpl. E. Pride
   "    13--Pvte. W. E. Beardsley
   "    14--Corpl. A. E. Paling
   "    17--Pvte. J. F. Wood
   "    24--Pvte. J. R. Seymour
  August 8--Pvte. J. Burke
  Sept. 21--Pvte. A. Stocks
  Oct.   7--Pvte. W. Hammond

  1917.

  Jan.  24--Pvte. J. H. Spence
   "    24--Pvte. J. Stafford
   "    24--Pvte. R. Knee
  Feb.  12--Pvte. F. Robertson
   "    16--Pvte. F. W. Beighton
   "    17--L.-Corpl. E. Slack
   "    17--Pvte. J. W. Sharman
   "    17--Pvte. F. Makin
   "    17--Pvte. G. Addison
  March  4--L.-Corpl. R. Marriott
   "     4--Pvte. H. Rimes
   "     4--Pvte. J. Myatt
   "     4--Pvte. P. Faulkner
   "     4--Pvte. F. S. Cooper
   "     5--Sergt. J. Henley
   "     5--Pvte. S. J. Preece
   "     6--Pvte. J. H. Haslam
   "    15--Pvte. C. H. Bryan
  April 21--Pvte. G. Stubbins
   "    21--Pvte. J. E. Wilkinson
   "    21--Pvte. L. Burrows
   "    23--Corpl. W. Street
   "    23--L.-Corpl. R. Vacey
   "    23--L.-Corpl. J. Hinchley
   "    23--L.-Corpl. W. Ward
   "    23--Pvte. W. Barwise
   "    23--Pvte. G. Garbett
   "    23--Pvte. G. H. Smith
   "    23--Pvte. E. Goodacre
   "    23--Pvte. E. R. Hewson
   "    23--Pvte. J. Holwell
   "    23--Pvte. T. H. Jones
   "    23--Pvte. G. Miller
   "    23--Pvte. F. Phillips
   "    23--Pvte. W. Steele
   "    23--Pvte. H. Barnes
   "    23--Pvte. S. Hodgkinson
   "    24--Corpl. A. Cox
   "    26--Pvte. J. Nicholson
  May    8--Pvte. D. McGlure
   "    10--Pvte. R. Short
   "    10--Pvte. C. Perkins
   "    11--Pvte. F. W. Brown
   "    11--Pvte. G. Nicholls
   "    12--Pvte. A. L. Varley
   "    12--Pvte. J. Sinclair
   "    12--Pvte. R. Turner
   "    19--Pvte. J. K. Strachan
   "    28--L.-Corpl. H. Newman
   "    28--Pvte. R. Morris
   "    29--Pvte. F. Marshall
   "    30--Pvte. L. Houeton
   "    30--Pvte. T. Sherratt
   "    30--Pvte. H. Simpson
   "    30--Pvte. S. Morley
  June   2--Pvte. W. Gale
   "     3--Pvte. S. Peach
   "     6--Pvte. A. L. Reekie
   "     8--Pvte. J. H. Whitehead
   "     8--Pvte. G. W. Henley
  June   8--Pvte. G. S. Reiace
   "     8--Corpl. F. S. Pickering
   "     8--Pvte. T. Clarke
   "     9--Pvte. A. Fitzhugh
   "    22--Pvte. W. N. Stone
   "    22--Pvte. J. W. Bradbury
   "    22--Pvte. A. Simpson
   "    22--L.-Corpl. E. Johnson
   "    22--Pvte. A. Mawson
   "    23--Pvte. T. Grosse
   "    23--Pvte. H. F. Buckler
   "    23--Corpl. A. Humberstone
   "    23--Pvte. G. F. Collins
   "    23--Pvte. J. Buswell
   "    26--Pvte. C. E. Allen
   "    26--Pvte. J. H. Fox
   "    26--Drummer S. R. Willingham
  July   1--Pvte. P. N. Coupe
   "    26--Pvte. G. H. Stubbins
   "    28--L.-Corpl. A. Huntbach
   "    28--L.-Corpl. W. Bulman
   "    30--Pvte. G. F. Allen
  August 4--L.-Corpl. H. Taylor
   "     5--L.-Sergt. S. Bowler
   "    30--Corpl. H. Wright
  Sept.  2--Pvte. A. Robertson
   "     3--Pvte. A. P. Frettingham
   "    12--Pvte. H. Wilson
   "    12--L.-Sergt. J. Blythe
   "    12--L.-Corpl. H. C. Key
   "    13--Pvte. L. Lilley
   "    13--Pvte. G. Darwin
   "    13--L.-Corpl. C. Parkin
   "    13--Pvte. W. S. Bell
   "    13--Pvte. W. A. Beckett
   "    13--Pvte. W. C. Randall
   "    13--Pvte. E. Stewart
   "    13--Pvte. S. Thorne
   "    29--Pvte. T. Gilbert
   "    29--Pvte. H. C. Smedley
  Oct.   4--Sergt. W. H. Drabble
   "     4--Pvte. G. H. West
   "     4--Pvte. A. Lovegrove
   "     5--Pvte. H. Shufflebottom
   "    14--Pvte. J. Bennett
  Nov.   2--Pvte. E. Sharpe
   "     4--Pvte. H. Syson
   "    23--Pvte. W. Blackshaw
   "    28--Pvte. H. Fox
  Dec.   6--Pvte. W. J. Palmer
   "     9--L.-Corpl. A. Dean
   "    11--Pvte. H. Moult
   "    21--Pvte. G. Large

  1918.

  March 17--Pvte. F. L. Chapman
   "    22--Pvte. S. S. Ives
   "    22--Pvte. J. Thompson
   "    22--Corpl. H. Tyne
  April  8--Pvte. C. Scholes
   "    18--Corpl. G. Caudwell
   "    18--Pvte. C. H. Aram
   "    18--Pvte. A. Leader
   "    28--Pvte. E. Cross
   "    28--Pvte. F. Townsend
   "    29--Pvte. G. F. Garratt
  May    5--Pvte. A. E. Cliff
   "     5--Pvte. A. H. Wheway
   "     9--Pvte. E. H. Asling
   "    15--Pvte. A. Beastall
   "    18--Pvte. H. Cooper
   "    19--Pvte. A. Armstrong
  June  15--Pvte. W. H. Baldwin
   "    15--Pvte. W. Buckley
   "    16--Pvte. G. R. Atkinson
   "    16--Pvte. A. Lover
   "    19--Pvte. W. Clarke
   "    23--Pvte. W. Tudbury
   "    29--Pvte. C. J. Rickett
  July  10--L.-Corpl. H. Smith
  August 7--Pvte. G. Chadwick
   "    13--Pvte. J. G. Boothby
   "    14--L.-Corpl. F. Peck
   "    17--Pvte. G. Rowley
   "    26--Pvte. S. Berry
   "    28--Pvte. E. Powell
   "    28--Pvte. G. Williamson
   "    29--Pvte. J. A. Riley
   "    29--Pvte. G. Stendall
   "    29--Pvte. G. Renshaw
   "    29--Pvte. F. H. Heighway
  Sept. 22--Pvte. G. F. Rogers
   "    25--Corpl. A. E. Lambert
   "    25--Pvte. W. Rogers
   "    26--Pvte. W. J. Phippard
   "    26--Corpl. J. W. Elcock
   "    29--Pvte. I. Evans
   "    29--Pvte. T. Rennie
   "    29--Corpl. H. Russell
   "    29--L.-Corpl. J. Hoe
   "    29--Pvte. J. E. Tinkler
   "    29--Pvte. G. S. Goodbourne
   "    29--Pvte. F. Conway
   "    29--L.-Corpl. T. H. Swann
   "    29--Pvte. F. Key
   "    29--Pvte. E. Leek
   "    29--Pvte. J. Rice
   "    29--Pvte. C. E. Goddard
   "    30--Comp. Sergt.-Major J. F. Rawding
   "    30--Pvte. E. Walker
   "    30--Pvte. T. Johnson
  Oct.   1--Pvte. A. Watson
   "     3--Pvte. J. E. Smith
   "     3--L.-Corpl. G. T. Tolly
   "     3--Pvte. G. Ballington
   "     3--Pvte. D. Irvine
   "     3--Pvte. S. Spencer
   "     3--Pvte. J. Taylor
   "     3--Sergt. C. H. Genders
   "     3--Pvte. J. Holmes
   "     3--Pvte. J. R. Rush
   "     3--L.-Corpl. A. Mantle
   "     3--Pvte. H. F. Russell
   "     3--Pvte. F. W. Lambert
   "     3--Pvte. H. Keech
   "     3--Pvte. H. G. Handley
   "     3--Pvte. S. Guy
   "     3--Sergt. S. Hurt
   "     3--Pvte. J. Sulley
   "     3--Pvte. W. Barksby
   "     3--Pvte. J. W. North
   "     3--Pvte. A. Goldsmith
   "     3--Pvte. A. E. Ward
   "     3--Pvte. J. Moon
   "     4--Pvte. F. J. Lewis
   "     4--L.-Corpl. C. H. Chadbourne
   "     7--Pvte. A. Clemerson
   "     8--Pvte. H. Silvester
   "     9--L.-Corpl. A. H. Penford
   "    12--Pvte. W. Walters
   "    13--Pvte. A. S. Roberts
   "    14--Pvte. C. E. Hallam
   "    17--Pvte. W. Godson
   "    17--Pvte. J. Bailey
   "    17--Pvte. G. E. Smith
   "    17--Pvte. G. E. P. Dennis
   "    17--Pvte. H. Adlington
   "    17--Pvte. S. Seal
   "    17--Pvte. H. Simmons
   "    17--Pvte. T. W. Horne
   "    17--Pvte. F. Woodhead
   "    17--Pvte. A. Jones
   "    17--Pvte. J. W. Stewart
   "    17--Pvte. G. Floyd
   "    17--Pvte. F. N. Guttridge
   "    17--Pvte. T. Turner
   "    17--Pvte. A. Diggle
   "    17--Pvte. E. Goddard
   "    17--L.-Corpl. F. H. Clarke
  Oct.  17--L.-Corpl. W. C. Creamer
   "    17--Pvte. G. Wildsmith
   "    17--L.-Corpl. J. F. Harper
   "    17--Pvte. G. Welbourne
   "    17--Pvte. G. Redfern
   "    18--Pvte. T. Sedgewick
   "    18--Pvte. J. Robinson
   "    18--Pvte. C. Whittaker
   "    18--Corpl. A. C. Scott
   "    18--Pvte. A. Bacon
   "    22--Pvte. G. W. Rollett
   "    23--L.-Corpl. L. Horton
   "    23--Pvte. B. A. Cutler
   "    24--Pvte. A. Gittens
  Nov.   1--Pvte. W. J. Coates
   "     5--Pvte. C. Wagstaff
   "    11--Pvte. T. S. Handy
   "    13--Pvte. R. Hand
  Dec.  24--Pvte. H. Buzan

Officers who were Killed or Died of Wounds whilst serving with other Units.

  2nd Lieut. A. D. Bailey
  2nd Lieut. F. E. Kebblewhite
  2nd Lieut. F. M. Corry
  Lieut. C. H. Hicks
  Lieut.-Col. B. W. Vann

Other Ranks who were Killed or Died of Wounds, after being granted Commissions in other Units.

  Comp. Sergt.-Major J. A. Green
  Comp. Sergt.-Major F. Spencer
  L.-Corpl. F. L. Wilson
  L.-Corpl. F. B. Gill
  Comp. Sergt.-Major E. Haywood
  Comp. Sergt.-Major W. H. M. Hotson
  Pvte. J. A. Christie

APPENDIX II.

HONOURS.

  BAR to D.S.O.

  Lieut.-Col. J. F. Dempster
  Lieut.-Col. R. W. Currin

  D.S.O.

  Lieut.-Col. J. E. Blackwall
  Major A. L. Ashwell
  Rev. J. P. Hales
  Major J. P. Becher
  Major R. J. Wordsworth

  2nd BAR to M.C.

  Major V. O. Robinson

  M.C. and BAR.

  Capt. B. W. Vann

  M.C.

  2nd Lieut. J. S. C. Oates
  Capt. A. Hacking
  Capt. W. C. C. Weetman
  2nd Lieut. W. P. Duff
  2nd Lieut. E. Hopkinson
  Capt. A. E. Geary
  Capt. J. W. Turner
  2nd Lieut. A. C. Fairbrother
  Capt. H. de C. Martelli
  Capt. H. K. Simonet
  Major A. Andrews
  Capt. E. A. Huskinson
  2nd Lieut. S. Bradwell
  2nd Lieut. James Howard Smith
  Capt. G. Thomas
  Capt. J. B. White
  2nd Lieut. J. Bloor
  2nd Lieut. W. J. Winter
  Capt. A. B. Miners
  2nd Lieut. F. L. Harrap
  Lieut. S. E. Cairns
  2nd Lieut. T. F. Mitchell
  Capt. St. G. L. M. Homan, R.A.M.C.
  Rev. D. E. Sturt
  Capt. C. G. Druce
  Capt. E. W. Warner
  2nd Lieut. J. F. Shackleton
  Capt. A. Bedford
  Lieut. A. G. T. Lomer

  O.B.E. and M.V.O.

  Major G. S. Heathcote

  O.B.E. and BREVET MAJORITY.

  Major G. Clarke

  O.B.E.

  Lieut.-Col. C. J. Huskinson
  Lieut.-Col. R. F. B. Hodgkinson

  D.C.M. and BAR.

  Comp. Sergt.-Major F. Attenborough

  D.C.M. AND M.M.

  L.-Sergt. C. Claxton
  Pvte. G. H. Wesley

  D.C.M. and M.S.M.

  Comp. Sergt.-Major J. F. Rawding

  D.C.M.

  Regimental Sergt.-Major W. Mounteney
  Sergt. A. Sheppard
  Corpl. H. Tyne
  Sergt. E. Grantham
  Pvte. J. Nicholson
  Corpl. W. E. Boot
  Sergt.-Drummer W. Clewes
  L.-Sergt. T. Turgoose
  Pvte. R. Kerling
  Comp. Sergt.-Major E. Haywood
  Sergt. C. E. Crooks
  Sergt. H. Scrimshaw
  Sergt. J. L. Peach
  Corpl. R. Francis
  Comp. Sergt.-Major A. Cobb
  Comp. Sergt.-Major W. Stokes
  L.-Corpl. W. Beech
  Sergt. H. Wilson

  M.M. and 2 BARS.

  Pvte. L. Thomas

  M.M. and BAR.

  Pvte. F. Green

  M.M. and M.S.M.

  Pvte. J. Nelson

  M.M.

  Sergt. J. T. Templeman
  Corpl. W. H. Lacey
  Corpl. S. Matthews
  L.-Sergt. T. Martin
  Pvte. G. F. Holbery
  Sergt. C. Grainger
  L.-Corpl. H. J. Walsh
  Corpl. H. Hickman
  Corpl. C. E. Bryan
  Corpl. J. W. Wilson
  Sergt. W. L. Green
  Sergt. L. Bell
  Sergt. C. T. Blunt
  Comp. Sergt.-Major E. E. Deverall
  Sergt. J. G. Collins
  Sergt. W. G. Oldfield
  Corpl. T. W. Lowe
  Pvte. W. Heath
  Sergt. J. Henley
  Corpl. W. Street
  L.-Corpl. W. Teare
  Corpl. C. Hagues
  Sergt. R. H. Bolton
  L.-Corpl. J. F. Stewart
  Pvte. G. F. Garratt
  Sergt. W. H. Martin
  L.-Sergt. R. Turner
  Pvte. G. Wildsmith
  Pvte. W. H. Tailby
  Pvte. G. Stamford
  Pvte. G. Cook
  L.-Sergt. W. Field
  L.-Sergt. F. Illger
  L.-Corpl. J. North
  Pvte. G. Feighery
  Pvte. W. Westnidge
  Corpl. G. Skelton
  Pvte. B. Smithurst
  Pvte. W. Titmus
  Pvte. A. W. Colton
  Pvte. C. Welbourne
  Pvte. G. Sulley
  Corpl. S. Slater
  Corpl. W. Foster
  Pvte. W. Parker
  Pvte. A. W. Stapleton
  Corpl. R. Harvey
  Sergt. J. Stimson
  Pvte. E. Crow
  Sergt. C. Vann
  L.-Corpl. S. Slater
  Corpl. J. Wright
  Pvte. J. W. Starr
  L.-Corpl. F. Baxter
  Corpl. W. Clark
  Sergt. W. Wrigglesworth
  Sergt. C. Sharrock
  Pvte. W. H. Martin
  Sergt. H. Shepperson
  Sergt. A. Winson
  Pvte. J. Roe
  L.-Corpl. J. U. Coombs
  Pvte. F. Draper
  Pvte. A. Jackson
  Pvte. A. Turpin
  Pvte. N. Lees
  Pvte. J. Vipond
  Pvte. W. Houghton
  Pvte. W. G. Nicholson
  Pvte. C. Smith
  Pvte. H. Beresford
  Corpl. S. Gadsby
  Pvte. E. Mosgrove

  M.S.M.

  Comp. Sergt.-Major A. Mabbott
  Sergt T. Taylor
  Sergt. J. Eggleston
  Sergt. R. Harvey
  Regtl. Qtr.-Mtr. Sergt. F. A. Pritchard
  Comp. Qtr.-Mtr. Sergt. H. J. Wilson
  Comp. Qtr.-Mtr. Sergt. G. E. Bee
  Comp. Qtr.-Mtr. Sergt. W. I. Dale

  MENTIONED IN DESPATCHES.

  Lieut.-Col. G. H. Fowler
  Major J. P. Becher
  Major A. L. Ashwell
  Major R. J. Wordsworth (2)
  2nd Lieut. J. S. C. Oates
  Capt. E. C. A. James
  Capt. E. N. T. Collin
  Capt. B. W. Vann
  Capt. A. Hacking
  Capt. J. W. Turner
  Lieut.-Col. J. E. Blackwall
  Rev. J. P. Hales (2)
  Lieut.-Col. C. J. Huskinson (2)
  Capt. C. L. Hill
  Major G. Clarke
  Lieut. W. H. B. Rezin (2)
  Hon. Lieut, and Quarter-Master F. Torrance
  Capt. R. Whitton
  Capt. C. G. Tomlinson
  Lieut. C. H. S. Stephenson
  Lieut.-Col. R. W. Currin
  Capt. N. L. Hindley
  Lieut. S. Sanders
  Sergt. E. Grantham
  Comp. Sergt.-Major J. F. Rawding
  Sergt. J. T. Templeman
  Sergt. C. T. Blunt
  Pvte. F. Holland
  Regtl. Sergt.-Major W. Mounteney
  Sergt. A. Phillipson
  Pvte. S. Boothby
  Pvte. C. Redfern
  Corpl. G. Caudwell
  Pvte. H. Needham
  Comp. Sergt.-Major T. Powell
  Comp. Sergt-Major J. T. Slater
  Sergt. R. F. Bescoby.
  Regtl. Qtr.-Mtr. Sergt. F. A. Pritchard
  Sergt. R. Harvey
  L.-Corpl. W. Beech
  Comp. Sergt.-Major E. E. Deverall
  Corpl. E. Dexter
  Sergt. F. Lobley
  L.-Sergt. J. Wicks

  FOREIGN DECORATIONS.

  FRENCH:--

  Légion d'Honneur (Chevalier).

  Lieut.-Col. J. E. Blackwall

  Croix de Guerre.

  Capt. B. W. Vann
  Capt. W. C. C. Weetman
  Comp. Sergt.-Major A. Cobb
  Pvte. F. Holland
  Sergt. T. Oldham

  BELGIAN:--

  Croix de Guerre.

  Regimental Sergt.-Major W. Mounteney

  RUSSIAN:--
  Medal of St. George (4th Class).

  Drummer J. Newton
  Drummer W. Robb
  Corpl. J. Sharman

  PRINTED BY THOS. FORMAN AND SONS
           NOTTINGHAM