Indeed I shaän't. What's the name of the alley, and which bell?" The New York girl took out
a memorandum-book as if to put it down. "What queer-looking stuff it must be! Why, everything
in our house is just as new and bright! One of the talking young ladies of this set began upon
Myrtle one day.

HOSPITAL MEMORIES

I.

When the first wave of patriotism rolled over the land at the outbreak of the late Rebellion,
fathers and mothers were proudly willing to send forth sons and daughters to take their part
in the struggle. The young men were speedily marshalled and marched to the scene of action;
but the young women were not so fortunate in getting off to places in the hospitals before
the first ardor of excitement had cooled. Indeed, all hospital organization was in such an
imperfect state that no definite plan could be made for ladies desiring to enter upon the good
work.

Then came grave doubts from sage heads as to the propriety and expediency of young women's
going at all. One said that they would always be standing in the way of the doctors; another,
that they would run at the first glimpse of a wounded man, or certainly faint at sight of a
surgical instrument; others still, that no woman's strength could endure for a week the demands
of hospital life. In fact, it was looked upon as the most fanatical folly, and suggestions
were made that at least a slight experiment of hospital horrors ought to be made before starting
on such a mad career. Accordingly, in Boston, a few who cherished the project most earnestly
began a series of daily visits to the Massachusetts General Hospital. To the courtesy and kindness
of Dr. B. S. Shaw and the attending surgeons,--especially Dr. J. Mason Warren,--these novices
were indebted for the privilege of witnessing operations and being taught the art of dressing
wounds. The omission of fainting on the part of the new pupils rather disappointed general
expectation; and though the knowledge gained in a few weeks was superficial, yet for practical
purposes the nurses were not deemed totally incompetent.

After receiving a certificate of fitness for the work from medical authority, it was discouraging
at last to be denied the consent of parents. However, some favored ones went forth, and, returning
home in a few months, brought back such accounts of satisfaction in finding themselves of use,
and of their enjoyment in ministering to our suffering soldiers, that at length the prejudices
which withheld consent were overcome, and one of the last of those who went was allowed to
take part in the most interesting duties to which the war called women.

I have often thought that one day of hospital employment, with its constant work and opportunities,
was worth a year of ordinary life at home, and I remember with thankfulness how many times
I was permitted to take the place of absent mothers and sisters in caring for their sons and
brothers. It seemed to me that we women in the hospitals received our reward a hundred-fold
in daily sights of patient heroism, and expressions of warm gratitude, and that we did not
deserve mention or remembrance in comparison with the thousands at home whose zeal never wearied
in labors indirect and unexciting, until the day of victory ended their work.

No place in the country could have been better adapted to the uses of a hospital than the grounds
and buildings belonging to the Naval Academy at Annapolis, enclosed on two sides, as they are,
by an arm of the Chesapeake Bay and the river Severn, and blessed with a varied view, and fresh,
invigorating breezes. At the opening of the war General Butler landed troops at this point,
thus communicating with Washington without passing through Baltimore. The Naval School was
immediately removed to Newport, where it remained until after the close of our national troubles.
The places of the young students preparing for the naval service were soon filled by the sick
and wounded of the volunteer armies.

The city of Annapolis is old and quaint. Unlike most of our American capitals, it gives a stranger
the impression of having been finished for centuries, and one would imagine that the inhabitants
are quite too contented to have any idea of progress or improvement. The Episcopal church,
destroyed by fire a few years since, has been rebuilt; but even that is crowned with the ancient
wooden tower rescued from the flames, and preserved in grateful memory of Queen Anne, who bestowed
valuable gifts on this church of her namesake city.

Within easy access of all the conveniences of a city, and with excellent railroad facilities,
the hospital grounds were perfectly secluded by surrounding walls. As one entered through the
high gates, an indescribable repose was felt, enhanced by the charm with which Nature has endowed
the spot, in the abundant shade, evergreen, and fruit trees, and rose-bushes, holly, and other
shrubbery. The classical naval monument, formerly at the Capitol in Washington, has within
a few years been removed, and with two others--one of which perpetuates the memory of the adventurous
Herndon--stands here. The wharf built for the embarkation of the Burnside Expedition in 1861
is also here. About sixty brick buildings, comprising the chapel, post-office, dispensary,
and laundry, with long rows of tents stretched across the grassy spaces, afforded accommodation
for patients varying from five hundred to twenty-two hundred in number.

In the summer of 1863, Dr. B. A. Vanderkeift was appointed surgeon in charge of the U.S. General
Hospital, Division I., at Annapolis, more frequently called the Naval School Hospital. Dr.
Vanderkeift, from his uncommon energy of character, his large experience, and rare executive
ability, was admirably fitted for his position. By day and night he never spared himself in
the most watchful superintendence of all departments of the hospital; no details were too minute
for his care, no plan too generous which could tend to the comfort of the suffering. Absolute
system and punctuality were expected to be observed by all who came under his military rule.
The reveille bugle broke the silence of early dawn. Its clear notes, repeated at intervals
during the day, announced to the surgeons the time for visits and reports, and to the men on
duty--such as the guards, police, nurses, and cooks--the time for their meals. One of the most
original of the Doctor's plans was the establishment of a stretcher corps. At one time there
was daily to be seen upon the green in front of head-quarters a company of men, ward-masters,
nurses, and cooks, performing the most surprising evolutions, playing alternately the parts
of patients and nurses, studying by experiment, under the eye and direction of skilful surgeons,
the most comfortable method of conveying the helpless. In this way the stretcher corps acquired
an amount of skill and tenderness which was brought into good use when the long roll on the
drum summoned them to meet an approaching transport, bringing either the wounded from the last
battle-field, or the emaciated victims who had been held as prisoners of war at the South.

Shortly after Dr. Vanderkeift came to the hospital, he invited "Sister Tyler" to take the head
of the ladies' department. She will always be remembered as identified with the war from the
very beginning. She was the only woman in Baltimore who came forward on the 19th of April,
1861, when the men of our Massachusetts Sixth were massacred in passing through that city.
She insisted upon being permitted to see the wounded, and with dauntless devotion, in the face
of peril, had some of them removed to her own home, where she gave them the most faithful care
for many weeks. These men were but the first few of thousands who can never forget the kindness
received from her hands, the words of cheer which came from her lips. Until within ten months
of the closing events of the war, she was constantly engaged in hospital service, and then
only left for Europe because too much exhausted to continue longer in the work. "Sister Tyler"
had supervision of the hospital, and of the fourteen ladies who had a subdivision of responsibility
resting upon each of them. Their duties consisted in the special care of the wards assigned
them, and particular attention to the diet and stimulants; they supplied the thousand nameless
little wants which occurred every day, furnished books and amusements, wrote for and read to
the men,--did everything, in fact, which a thoughtful tact could suggest without interfering
with surgeons or stewards.

Dr. Vanderkeift wisely considered nourishing diet of more importance than medicine. There were
three departments for the preparation of low and special diet, over each of which a lady presided.
The cooks and nurses, throughout the hospital, were furnished from the number of convalescent
patients not fit to go to the front. They made excellent workers in these positions, learning
with a ready intelligence their new duties, and performing them with cheerful compliance; but
they often regained their strength too rapidly, and the whole order and convenience of kitchens
and wards would be thrown into wild confusion by a stern mandate from Washington, that every
able-bodied man was to go to his regiment. No matter what the exigency of the case might be,
these men were despatched in haste. Then came a new training of men, some on crutches, some
with one hand, and all far from strong. When the ladies remonstrated at having such men put
on duty, they were told that feebleness must be made good by numbers, and it was no uncommon
thing for four or five crippled men to be employed in the work of one strong one. These changes
made wild confusion for a few days, but gradually we began to consider them a part of the fortunes
of war, and to find that a stoical tranquillity was the best way in which to meet them. Though
exceedingly inconvenient, there was rarely any serious result attending them. Occasionally
a lady would be fortunate enough to evade the loss of a valuable man by sending him into the
city on an errand, or by keeping him out of sight while an inspection was going on. In this
way my chief of staff, as I used to call a certain German youth, was kept a year in the hospital.
His efficiency and constant interest in the patients made him a valuable auxiliary in my little
department; and I know that his services were appreciated by others than myself, for one of
the chief surgeons advised me to keep him by all means, even if hiding him in the ice-chest
were necessary.

The regular supplies from the commissary were comparatively plentiful, but fell short of the
demand, both as to quantity and variety. The Christian and Sanitary Commissions met this want
in great measure, providing good stimulants, dried fruits, butter, and various other luxuries.
But with the utmost delight were received boxes packed by generous hands at home. I shall ever
feel indebted to many Boston friends for their laborious care and munificent contributions.
One of them, Mrs. James Reed, has now entered upon the full reward of a life rich in noble
impulses and kindly deeds. Her cordial sympathy for those languishing in distant hospital wards
was manifested in sending gifts of the choicest and most expensive home luxuries.

A gentleman well known in England, as well as our own country, for his friendly patronage of
art, was never forgetful of our warriors in their dreary days of suffering. Many a cheery message
did he send in letters, and never without liberal "contents." His name was gratefully associated
by the men with bountiful draughts of punch and milk, fruits, ice-cream, and many other satisfying
good things. His request was never to allow a man to want for anything that money could buy;
and though "peanuts and oranges"--of which he desired the men should have plenty--were not
always the most judicious articles of diet, the spirit of his command was strictly obeyed.

Mrs. Alexander Randall, who lived near the hospital at Annapolis, was exceedingly kind in sending
in timely delicacies for the men. Fruits and flowers from her own garden in lavish profusion
were the constant expressions of her thoughtful interest. I remember especially one morning
when a poor boy who was very low could not be persuaded to take any food; many tempting things
had been suggested, but with feeble voice he said that some grapes were all that he cared for.
It was early in the season, and they could not be bought. But just at this moment Mrs. Randall
opportunely sent in some beautiful clusters. The countenance of the dying boy brightened with
delight as he saw them. They made his last moments happy, for within half an hour he turned
his head on the pillow, and with one short sigh was gone.

The large basketfuls of rosy apples from this lady were hailed with the utmost delight by those
allowed to eat them. "I have wanted an apple more than anything," was often the eager reply,
as they were offered to those who had recently come from a long captivity; and as they were
distributed through the wards, not the least gratifying circumstance was the invariable refusal
of the ward-masters and nurses to take any. Their diet was not sumptuous, and apples were a
great luxury to all; but they would say, "No, thank you, let the men who have just come have
them all."

On the 17th of November, 1863, the steamer New York came in, bringing one hundred and eighty
men from Libby Prison and Belle Isle. Most of these were the soldiers who had fought at Gettysburg.
Never was there an army in the world whose health and strength were better looked after than
our own; the weak and sick were always sent to the general hospitals; and the idea that our
men were ever in other than the most sound and robust condition at the time of their becoming
prisoners has no foundation. Language fails to describe them on their return from the most
cruel of captivities. Ignominious insults, bitter and galling threats, exposure to scorching
heat by day and to frosty cold at night, torturing pangs of hunger,--these were the methods
by which stalwart men had been transformed into ghastly beings with sunken eyes and sepulchral
voices. They were clothed in uncleanly rags, many without caps, and most without shoes. Their
hair and beards were overgrown and matted. The condition of their teeth was the only appearance
of neatness about them: and these were as white as ivory, from eating bread made of corn and
cobs ground up together. A piece of such bread four inches square daily, with a morsel of meat
once a week and a spoonful of beans three times a week, had been their food for several months.
Some were too far gone to bear the strain of removal from the steamer; nine died on the day
of arrival, and one third of the whole number soon followed them. Roses, which had lingered
through the mellow autumn, were wreathed with laurel and laid upon their coffins as they were
carried into the beautiful little chapel for the funeral services, before they were laid in
the government cemetery, about a mile from the hospital. It is a lovely place, with many trees
surrounding its gentle slopes; and here thousands sleep, with their name, rank, company, and
regiment inscribed upon wooden slabs. But "Unknown" is the only sad record on many a headboard.
These were men who died either on transports, or who when brought to us were too much impaired
in mind to remember anything,--for the loss or derangement of mental faculties was no uncommon
occurrence. When the first cases of starvation were brought under treatment, the doctors prescribed
the lightest diet, mostly rice, soup, and tea. By experiment it was proved that just as many
died in proportion under this care as when an intense desire for any particular article of
food was allowed in a measure to be satisfied. Almost every man on his arrival would have his
mind concentrated on some one thing: with many, pickles were the coveted luxury; with others,
milk. Often, as I passed through the wards, one or another would call out, "Lady, do you think
there is such a thing as a piece of Bologna sausage here?" or, "Lady, is there a lemon in this
place? I have been longing for one for months." The first thing that one man asked for was
a cigar. He was very low, but said, "I would like one sweet smoke before I die." He finished
his cigar only a few moments before he breathed his last.

The gratification of an insane craving for food cost many a poor fellow his life. One morning
a man who had just come received some money from a friendly comrade; going in to the sutler's,
he bought a quart of dried apples. After eating them he became quite thirsty, and drank an
alarming quantity of cold water. It is needless to say that he died the next day. At another
time a boy received a box from home; his fond mother, with more kindness than good judgment,
sent, with other things, a mince-pie, which delighted him, and he was greatly disappointed
in not being allowed to taste it. Though warned of the danger, when the nurse left him for
a few moments to bring him some beef-tea, he got at the pie, ate half of it, and when the nurse
returned was lying dead. Perhaps his death was not caused, but only hastened, by this. It was
impossible always to guard against such imprudences.

One of the most interesting of the patients, who lived a few weeks after coming, was Hiram
Campbell, of the Hundred and Forty-fifth Pennsylvania Regiment. An imprisonment of one hundred
and thirty-eight days had reduced him to a point beyond recovery. Day by day he grew weaker,
yet clung to life for the sake of going home to see his friends once more. A few weeks before,
Dr. Vanderkeift had allowed a man in similar condition to start for home, and he had died on
the way; so that the Doctor had made a rule that no man should leave the hospital unless able
to walk to head-quarters to ask for his own papers. An exception to this rule could not be
granted, and the only chance was to try to build up Campbell's little remaining strength for
the journey, to relieve his sufferings by comforts, and to keep hope alive in his mind by interesting
him in stories and books. He was delighted to have "Evangeline" read to him, and the faint
smile which passed over his haggard features as he listened told of a romance in his own life,
begun, but destined too soon to be broken off by death. When too low to write, as a lady was
answering a letter from his sister for him, he asked to have it read over to him. In her letter
the sister had requested him to name her infant daughter. When the lady came to this request,
he stopped her by asking what she thought a pretty name. Edith was suggested, but he did not
seem satisfied with that; at last he said shyly, "How do you spell your name? I think I would
like to have her named for you." The lady felt rather embarrassed in writing this, and persuaded
him to let her mention several names, so that at least the sister might have a choice. This
was only a few days before his death. His father was sent for, because it was evident that
there could no longer be any hope of returning strength for him. The poor old man was heart-broken
when he saw his son in such an emaciated condition. They had heard at home of his severe sufferings,
but said he, "How could I ever expect to see him the like of this?" With patient resignation
to God's will, the sufferer waited, and his life ebbed slowly away.

The sorrow-stricken father took to his home in the interior of Pennsylvania the body of his
son, that he might rest in the village graveyard by the side of his mother. By his grassy grave
a little child often hears from her mother's lips how her uncle fought and died for the country,
and with questioning wonder asks, "And am I named for the lady who was kind to Uncle Hiram?"
Such are the strange links in life.

At this time there was in the wards an elderly man, who for months had been vainly trying to
recruit his strength. He had not been a prisoner, but had been sent to the rear on account
of feebleness. Now John Bump thought it a great waste of time to be staying here in the hospital,
where he was doing no good to the nation, while, if he were at home, he might be acquiring
quite a fortune from his "profession," for he was a chair-maker. His descriptive list not having
been sent from the regiment, he could draw no pay. One day he received the following important
queries from his anxious wife, who with eight small children at home did seem to be in a precarious
condition: "The man who owns the house says I must move out if I cannot pay the rent: what
shall I do? I have nothing for the children to eat: what shall I do? There is nothing to feed
the hens with: what shall I do? The pigs are starving: what shall I do?" An application was
made, which resulted in John Bump's being sent to his regiment, from which he no doubt soon
received his discharge papers.

Around the post-office at noon might always be seen an eager group awaiting the distribution
of the mail. A letter from friends was the most cheering hope of the day, often proving more
effectual than anything else toward the restoration of health, by bringing vividly to minds
languid with disease all the little interests and charms of home.

Gathered about the fire on a wintry day, the men would recount the experiences of their captivity,
from the moment when they first found themselves with dismay in the power of the enemy, and,
relieved of muskets, were marched without food to Richmond. There whatever they chanced to
have of money or of value was taken into the care of a Rebel officer, with the assurance that
it would be returned on their release. The promise was never fulfilled, and the men were hurried
off to the sandy plains of Belle Isle. The death of companions was the principal change in
their dreary, monotonous life, varied also by the addition from time to time of others doomed
to share their fate. Efforts to escape were not always unsuccessful. At one time eight men
burned spots on their faces and hands with hot wire, and then sprinkled the spots with black
pepper. When the doctor came round, they feigned illness, and he ordered these cases of small-pox
to be taken to the pestilence-house beyond the guards. In the night the men started for their
homes in the West, and were not caught.

Tracy Rogers, with his bright, sunny face, and sweet voice, whose merry music resounded through
the wards, was one of the first to regain strength and spirits. His patriotic zeal had only
been reanimated by his sufferings, and he was in haste to be in his place at the front again.
A brother had been killed in the same battle in which he was taken prisoner, and another had
died in a Philadelphia hospital. He was sure that he should yet die for his country, and talked
of death as soon to come to him. With earnest thoughtfulness, he recalled the teachings of
a Christian mother in his far-off Connecticut home. As the tears filled his manly blue eyes
one day, he asked if the hymn,

    "On Jordan's stormy banks I stand,
    And cast a wishful eye,"

could be found in the hospital. He said that it had been sung at his mother's funeral, on his
fourteenth birthday; that he had never seen it since, but that lately he had thought much about
it. The hymn was brought, and he committed it to memory. We were sorry to part with him, when,
after serving as ward-master, he was strong enough to go to his regiment. Not long after he
left, a letter came, saying that he had been badly wounded, and wished himself back among his
Annapolis friends once more. We never heard of him again, and fear that his wounds must have
proved fatal.

Those were quiet, solemn hours passed in the hospital in the intervals between past and coming
dangers. At the close of the day, the men would gather into one ward for prayers. Many a stern
voice was uplifted that never prayed before. After petitions for pardon and guidance had arisen
to the Giver of all good things, the men would sit and sing, for hours sometimes, each one
wishing for his favorite hymn to be sung, and saying that this time was more homelike than
any other of the day.

The inspection on Sunday forenoon made it the busiest morning of the week. In the chapel at
two o'clock, and again at seven, short services were held, conducted either by the chaplain,
or by the Rev. Mr. Sloan, the devoted agent of the Christian Commission at this post. After
a while the second service was changed into a Sunday school, very interesting to our grown-up
scholars. The ladies found themselves fully occupied as teachers in answering the various difficult
questions crowded into a short space of time. Sometimes the officers who were patients would
take classes too, which was far less embarrassing than having them ask permission to take the
part of scholars, as they sometimes did. Before we had Sunday school, the men in my own wards
would ask to have psalms and passages selected for them to learn on Sundays. On Monday mornings
each one would have his little book ready to recite his lesson.

For a week before Christmas, active preparations were made for its celebration. The men were
allowed to go into the woods across the river, and bring boughs of hemlock, pine, and laurel,
and of holly laden with bright berries. Every evening was occupied in twisting and tying evergreen
in the chapel. Many a reminiscence of home was told, as we sat in clusters, wreathing garlands
of rejoicing so strangely contrasting with the sights and sounds of life and death around us.
Late on Christmas eve, some of the men from Section V., a tent department, came to ask as a
great favor that I would assist them in decorating the tent of Miss H----. They said that she
had been "fixing up" the wards all day, and they wanted to have her own tent adorned as a surprise
when she came down in the morning.

On going over to the tent, I found that they had already cut out of red and blue flannel the
letters for "A Merry Christmas to Miss H----." These were soon sewed upon white cotton, which,
being surrounded with evergreen, was hung in the most conspicuous place. Then there were crosses,
stars, and various other designs to go up, among them a Goddess of Liberty of remarkable proportions,
considered the masterpiece of the whole. There were only a few men present, not more than a
dozen; each had been seriously wounded, and nearly every one had lost either a leg or an arm.
It was a weird sight as they eagerly worked, by the light of dimly burning candles, on this
cold, full-mooned midnight, cheerfully telling where they were a year ago, lying in rifle-pits
or on picket duty, and wishing themselves only able to be there again.

Christmas morning came at last. As the sun shone brightly on the frosty windows, each one showed
its wreath, and the wards were gayly festooned. In some of the larger ones there were appropriate
mottoes made of evergreen letters; as, "Welcome home,"--"He bringeth the prisoners out of captivity."
Friends in Philadelphia had requested to provide the dinner, which was most lavish and luxurious.
The tables were loaded with turkeys, pies of various kinds, fruits, and candies. This was a
feast indeed to the thousand heroes gathered around the board, and to those too ill to leave
the wards a portion of all was taken, that at least they might see the good things which the
others were enjoying. The thoughts of many of the sick had centred on this Christmas dinner,
and they had named the favorite morsels that they wished for.

An Episcopal service was held in the chapel in the evening, by the Rev. Mr. Davenport of Annapolis.
A crowded congregation gathered within the walls, which were hung with scrolls bearing the
names of our battle-fields, and richly adorned with evergreen, while the national flag gracefully
draped the large window. Carols were merrily sung, and the shattered, scarred, and emaciated
soldiers in the most righteous cause that ever brought warfare to a nation joined in heralding
the advent of the Prince of Peace.

The Christmas had been rendered still happier by the reception of a telegram, that another
exchange of paroled prisoners had been made, and we were hourly expecting their arrival. In
the cold, gray dawn of the 29th of December, the shrill whistle of the "New York" coming up
the bay was heard. Every one was soon astir in preparation for a warm welcome. Large quantities
of coffee, chocolate, and gruels were to be made, clothes were to be in readiness, and the
stretcher corps to be mustered.

As the sun arose, a great crowd assembled, and when the New York neared the wharf, shouts and
cheers greeted her. The decks were covered with men, whose skeleton forms and vacant countenances
told of starvation, the languid glimmer that at moments overspread their faces feebly betokening
the gratitude in their hearts at their escape from "Dixie."

This time the Rebel authorities had allowed only "well men," as they called them, to come,
because so much had been said at the North about "the last lot," who came in November. Those
able to walk were landed first, the barefooted receiving shoes. Many were able to crawl as
far as Parole Camp, a little beyond the city. The more feeble were received into the hospital,
where hot baths awaited them; and when they had been passed under scissors and razor, and were
laid in comfortable beds,--only too soft after the hard ground they had lain on for months,
with as much earth as they could scrape together for a pillow,--they expressed the change in
their whole condition as like coming from the lower regions of misery into heaven itself.

Handkerchiefs and combs, writing-materials and stamps, were among the first requisites of the
new-comers. A few were able to write; and for the others, the ladies were but too happy to
apprise the friends at home of their arrival, even if recovery were doubtful. In taking the
names of the men, I came to a white-headed patriarch, and expressed surprise at finding him
in the army. His name was R. B. Darling; and as I wrote it down, he said: "You might as well
put 'Reverend' before it, for I am a Methodist minister. I lived in Greenville, Green County,
Tennessee, and when this Rebellion came on, I preached and preached, until it did not seem
to do any good; so I took up the musket to try what fighting would do." He had left a wife
and six children at home, from whom he had heard only once, and then through a friend taken
prisoner six months after himself. He had been down with "those fiends," as he called them,
twenty-one months, and had been in nine different prisons. He had worked for the Rebels--only
at the point of the bayonet--while his strength lasted, in digging wells. He had passed three
months in the iron cage at Atlanta, and three months in Castle Thunder under threat of being
tried for his life for some disrespectful speech about Rebeldom; finally, after all the perils
of Libby Prison and Belle Isle, he was free once more. "These are tears of gratitude," he said,
in answer to the welcome given him, as they rolled down his furrowed cheeks; "it is the first
word of kindness that I have heard for so long." On soiled scraps of paper he had the names
of many of his fellow-prisoners. He had promised, should he ever escape, to let their friends
at home know when and where they had died. Letters were at once written, carrying the painful
certainty of loss to anxious hearts. To his own family it was useless to write, for the Rebels
surrounded his home, cutting off postal communication. He brought with him six little copies
of the Gospels, one for each child at home; they had been given to him at the South, having
been sent over by the British and Foreign Bible Society for distribution. Surely no men ever
more needed the promises of divine consolation than the captives whom these volumes reached.

It was difficult to restrict the diet of this old hero. After eating an enormous meal of soup,
meat, vegetables, pudding, and bread, his appetite would not be in the least satisfied; he
would very coolly remark that he had had a very nice dinner; there was only one trouble about
it, there was not enough. On being told that we would gladly give him more, were it considered
safe, he would persist in saying that he felt "right peart," and begged me to remember that
it was twenty-one months since he had had any dinners. As he gained strength enough to walk
about, he became acquainted with the system of the hospital and made a discovery one day; namely,
that he was on low diet, and that there was such a thing as full diet for the well men. "If
my present fare is low, what may not the full be?" he reasoned, as visions of illimitable bounty
floated through his insatiable mind. So he asked the doctor one morning to transfer his name
to the full-diet list; and when the bugle sounded, he joined the procession as it moved to
the dining-hall. Salt-fish, bread, and molasses chanced to be all that presented themselves
to the famished, disappointed old man; his countenance was forlorn indeed, as he came to the
window of the low-diet serving-room to ask for something to eat. "I shall get the doctor to
put my name back on to this list, for I like this cook-shop the best, if it is called low diet."

Father Darling, as he used to be called, soon became a favorite all over the hospital. He delighted
to perform any act of kindness for his fellow-sufferers. On Sunday mornings he might be seen
wandering through the grounds, carrying books and newspapers into the wards, with a bright
smile and cheery word for each man. His eloquence reached its highest pitch, when, talking
of the Southern Confederacy, he declared that he did not believe in showing mercy to traitors,
but that God intended them to be "clean exterminated" from the face of the earth, like the
heathen nations the Israelites were commanded to destroy ages ago. He had but too good reason
for wishing justice to be done. After he returned to his home in Tennessee, he wrote: "There
is but one tale in the whole country: every comfort of life is purloined, clothes all in rags,
a great many men and boys murdered, and, worst of all, Christianity seems to have gone up from
the earth, and plunder and rapine to have filled its place. Surely war was instituted by Beelzebub.
The guerillas are yet prowling about, seeking what they may devour. In these troublous times,
all who can lift a hoe or cut a weed are trying to make support, but unless we get help from
the North many must suffer extremely. The Rebs have not left my family anything. They went
so far as to smash up the furniture, take my horse, all my cattle, and carry off and destroy
my library. They smashed up the clock and cut up the bedsteads; and, in fact, ruin stares us
in the face, and doleful complaint stuns the ear. Even sick ladies have been dragged out of
bed by the hair of the head, so that the fiends of Davis could search for hid treasure. All
who have labored for the government are destitute. Since the winter broke, I have been fighting
the thieving, murdering Rebels, and now their number is diminished from two hundred to nine,
and I can ride boldly forth where for the last three years it would have been certain death.
O, how are the mighty fallen!"

On New Year's evening the ladies held a reception. Huge logs burned brightly in the large old-fashioned
fireplace of their dining-room, and a "Happy New Year to all," in evergreen letters, stood
out from the whitewashed wall. Surgeons and stewards, officers, extra-duty men, and patients,
mingled in groups to exchange friendly good-wishes. Conversation and singing, with a simple
repast of apples, cake, and lemonade, proved allurements to a long stay. Those who had gained
admission were reluctant to depart to make room for the hundreds awaiting entrance outside.
For days afterwards this evening was talked over with delight by the men: it was the only party
they had attended since the war began, and it formed the greatest gayety of hospital experience.

Some of the vessels of the Russian fleet, then cruising in our waters, wintered at Annapolis.
A severe sickness breaking out among the sailors, their accommodations on shipboard were not
found adequate, and, by invitation of our government, they were received into the hospital.
Their inability to speak one word of English made their sojourn rather a melancholy affair.
Their symptoms were often more successfully guessed from signs and gestures, than from their
attempts to express some particular wish in words. They all returned to their floating homes
in a little while quite recovered, except one, who met with an accidental death, and was buried
from our chapel with the full ceremonies of the Greek Church. With his face uncovered, he was
carried by his comrades to the cemetery, and laid by the side of our soldiers. A Greek cross
of black iron, among the white slabs, designates this stranger's grave.

The Vanderkeift Literary Association held a meeting every Tuesday evening in the chapel, which
was always crowded. Some of the citizens of Annapolis, with their families, did not disdain
a constant attendance. An animated discussion of some popular topic was held by the debating
club; and the intelligence often shown did credit to the attainments of the men who filled
the ranks of our army. Ballads were sung by the Kelsey Minstrels,--so named from their leader,
a clerk at head-quarters. "The Knapsack," a paper edited by the ladies, was read. Into it was
gathered whatever of local interest or amusement there was going on at the time. Contributions
in prose or verse, stories, and conundrums filled the little sheet.

The short Southern winter wore quickly away, with little of unusual excitement in the constantly
changing scenes of war. Our prisoners pined in dreary captivity, and the clash of arms was
stilled for a season.

So many strange ideas are entertained about a woman's life in hospital service that I am tempted
to transcribe a page from my own experience, in order that a glimpse may be had of its reality.
Imagine me, then, in a small attic room, carpeted with a government blanket, and furnished
with bed, bureau, table, two chairs, and, best of all, a little stove, for the morning is cold,
and the lustrous stars still keep their quiet watch in the blue heavens. A glow of warmth and
comfort spreads from gas-light and fire,--an encouraging roar in the chimney having crowned
with success the third attempt at putting paper, wood, and coal together in exact proportions.
After all, the difficulty has been chiefly in the want of a sufficient amount of air, for there
could be no draught through the dead embers, and these could be disturbed only noiselessly,
for the lady in the next room has the small-pox, and it will not do to awake her from her morning
slumbers.

A glance at the wonderful beauty in which day is breaking is sufficient compensation for such
early rising, as with hurried step I go to the wards, about seven rods off. The kind-hearted
steward stands at the door: "Talbot died at two o'clock; he was just the same till the last."
I am not surprised, for when I left him I knew that his feeble frame could not much longer
endure the violence of delirium. He was by no means among the most hopeless of the last prisoners
who came, but an unaccountable change had passed suddenly over him within the last few days.
And now tidings of his death must carry a sad revulsion to hearts at home, made happy, but
a short time since, by news of his safety.

The patients rouse themselves from the drowsiness of a sleepless night, expecting a morning
greeting as I pass through the wards, giving to each his early stimulant of whiskey or cherry-brandy.
The men in the ward where poor Talbot died seem in especial need of it; for, as they glance
at the vacant corner, they say, "He screamed so badly, we didn't get much sleep."

At the call of the bugle a general stampede takes place for breakfast, and I must repair to
the serving-room to oversee the last preparations for low and special diet; for on his return
each of the male nurses will appear at the window with a large tray to be filled for his hungry
men. Beef essence, jellies, and puddings for the day's requirement claim a little personal
attention. Such things are not always left to servants at home; and how could our "boys in
blue" be expected to handle the spoon with the same dexterity as the musket? They are not,
however, deficient in culinary skill, as the savory hash, well-turned beefsteaks, nicely dropped
eggs, and good coffee will testify.

After the procession of heavily laden breakfast-bearers has moved off, supplies from the commissary
need a little arranging; and one must plan how they may be made the most of, and what additions
for the next three meals are to be furnished from private resources. The result of which consideration
is usually the despatch of Henry, the chief cook, into the city to purchase chickens, oysters,
and milk in as great quantity as can be bought.

At eight o'clock the ladies meet for their morning meal. Good cold water, bread and molasses,
with the occasional luxury of a salt-fish cake, suffice to keep soul and body together. The
coffee is said to be good by those in the habit of taking it, and some, too, enjoy the butter.

The preparation of lemonade in large quantities, and drinks of various degrees of sweetness
and acidity, is next to be superintended. As rapidly as possible the little pitchers are filled,
and I follow them to the wards.

Wondering what can be the matter, and cooling his parched lips and bathing his burning brow,
I stand over Allen as the doctor enters. Doubt is soon dispelled, for he pronounces it a violent
case of small-pox. It is becoming very prevalent, but this is my first introduction to it.
The doctor orders the immediate removal of the patient to Horn Point, the small-pox quarters,
about two miles across the bay. It is too bleak for the open-boat conveyance, and so he must
be jolted six miles round in an ambulance. On his bed, buried in blankets and stupefied with
fever, he starts for his new abode, not without a plentiful supply of oranges, lemons, and
bay-water.

The plaintive, whining tones of William Cutlep, a boy of sixteen, who is a picture of utter
woe, with mind enough only left to know that he is in "awful pain," detain me too long; and
when I must leave him, it is with the promise of coming up soon again, for he says he always
did like to see "women folks around." His home is in Southern Virginia, whence he escaped to
join the Union army; and he will never hear from his home again, for thirty-six ounces of brandy
daily will not keep him alive much longer. He has already taken a ring from his finger, to
be sent home with a dying message after the war is over.

The lower ward is not reached too soon, for the manly, gentle Mason is near his end. He faintly
presses my hand, begging me not to leave him again, for it will soon be all over. An attack
of pneumonia has proved too much for his reduced system to resist, and, meekly submitting to
its ravages, he lies at last upon his death-bed. A saintly fortitude sustains him, as in broken
accents these sentences come from his lips: "It is a country worth dying for." "Others will
enjoy in coming years what I have fought for." "I can trust my Saviour. He is lighting me through
the valley of death." "All is well." Low words of prayer commend the departing soul to the
God who made it, and the sweet hymn,

    "O sing to me of heaven,
    When I am called to die,"

breaks the stillness of the ward.

"It is growing dark,--I can't see you any more,"--he whispers; and then, as the bugle notes
strike his ear, "Before that sound is heard again, I shall be far away." His heavy breathing
grows thicker and shorter, until that radiance which comes but once to any mortal face, streaming
through the open portal of eternity, tells of the glory upon which his soul is entering, as
his eyelids are quietly closed on earth. The men in the beds around mutely gaze upon him, wishing
that they may die like him when their last summons comes. The tender-hearted McNally, the faithful
nurse, tearfully laments the loss of the first patient who has died since he took charge of
the ward, and is sure that he could not have done more for him had he been his own brother.
Nor could he.

I go back to the upper wards. Little Cutlep moans deeply in restless sleep. But there are others
to be cheered, and many a promise to be fulfilled from the heterogeneous contents of a small
basket, a constant and most valuable companion. Comfort-bags, braces, knives, come forth at
requirement. Books, too, are always in demand. After they have been read, they are sent to
many a distant fireside by mail; some of the boys have several treasured up to take with them
when they go home, for such books are rare where they live, and their little brothers and sisters
will greatly prize them. One boy still keeps under his pillow, clinging to it until the last,
the little book, "Come to Jesus," which he requests shall be sent to his mother after his death,
with the message that it has been the saving of his soul.

New wants arise to be remembered, and special desires for additions to the next meal are expressed.
On the whole, the men seem comfortable and happy to-day, as they rest on their elbows partly
sitting up in bed, playing backgammon, or scanning the last pictorial newspaper, or working
over puzzles, for which last they are indebted to Rev. Mr. Ware, who made a visit to our hospital
a few weeks since, and on his return sent from Boston a goodly assortment of amusements.

By this time the stimulants are to be given out again, and preparations made for dinner. For
it will hardly be welcome, unless the promised mug of milk or ale, fried onions or sour-krout,
fruit or jelly, shall come with it. Each tray receives its burden of hearty nourishment, and
by one o'clock the ladies may be seen returning to their quarters for rations of beef and bread.
It is well that we are blessed with elastic spirits, for "a merry heart doeth good like a medicine."
All sadness for the dead must be concealed for the sake of the living. As we cheerfully meet
at dinner-time, an occasional letter in the following strain is not without a salutary and
amusing effect:--

     "DEAR MISS T----:--I set down to tell you that I've arrove hum,
     an wish I was sum whar else. I've got 3 Bully boys an they are
     helpin me about gettin the garden sass into the groun; but they
     haint got no mother, an ive got a hous and a kow an I thort
     youd be kinder handy to take care of um, if youd stoop so much.
     I've thort of you ever sense I com from the hospittle, and how
     kinder jimmy you used to walk up and doun them wards. You had
     the best gate I ever see, an my 1st wife stepped of jis so, an
     she pade her way I tell you. I like to work, and the boys likes
     to work, an I kno you do, so ide like to jine if youv no
     objecshuns; an now ive maid so bold to rite sich, but I was
     kinder pussed on by my feelins an so I hope youl excuse it and
     rite soon. I shant be mad if you say no, but its no hurt to ask
     an the boys names are Zebalon, Shadrac and peter, they want to
     see you as does your respectful frend wich oes his present
     helth to you

     "I---- G----."

A few letters for the men are to be written for the afternoon mail. Twining a wreath of immortelles
and laurel, is the last that can be done for brave Tenny, who died yesterday, and will be buried
with military honors to-day. The little procession, with reversed arms, winds slowly through
the grounds, and at the sound of the bugle four patriots, each wrapped in the flag he has died
for, are borne into the chapel. Inspired passages are read, "There is rest for the weary" is
sung by the ladies, and prayers are offered for bereaved relatives at a distance. The chaplain
precedes the short train to the cemetery, where the final portion of the church burial-service
is said, and over the newly made graves resound three sharp volleys of musketry.

There is not much time to-day to read to the group around the fire, but with evident pride
and pleasure they listen to "The Blue Coat of the Soldier," and "The Empty Sleeve," a touching
poem, inscribed to the noble General Howard. I would gladly tarry longer at the request of
the little audience, but the other wards must be looked after. An awkward man stands in the
first one I enter, and begins a protest against being put on duty. He says he "'listed to fight,"
and knows nothing about "nussing." He hands over the materials for a mustard plaster, as he
professes profound ignorance on the subject, saying that he fears the men left to his charge
will not get very good care. This is the only instance I remember of a man who did not cheerfully
try to do his best for his sick comrades. Fortunately, he was soon sent to his regiment.

Preparation of stimulants and supper keep me busily occupied until, in the shadowy twilight,
the men from the fifteen wards gather into one, where the patients are not too ill to listen
to a few texts from the Holy Book, which come with a diviner meaning of consolation than ever
before, in the hush of closing day, with death so familiar a thought to each.

After their tea, the ladies meet in the chapel, to teach in the evening school held for an
hour four times a week. It serves to interest the men in useful study. A large library in one
corner of the chapel furnishes, too, stores of knowledge and amusement in works of history,
travel, and fiction.

On going back again to the wards, I am glad to find that Carney's wife has come in the evening
train. She was startled by the last news from him. It is well that she is here: if anything
can save his life, it will be her presence. The poor woman is worn out by anxiety and a two
days' journey. The chaplain must be found to write a permit for her entrance into the "Home"
provided by the Sanitary Commission for the accommodation of those coming to see their friends
in the hospital. The good-natured orderly, Frank Hall, conducts her out to the comfortable house.

The lurid gas flickers in the chilly breeze, for never are the windows allowed to be closed
by day or night, in sunshine or storm. It does sometimes seem as if a circulation of air a
little less like a hurricane from an iceberg might conduce more to the health and comfort of
the inmates; but then this is one of Dr. Vanderkeift's pet points of practice, and woe betide
any one who dares to shut out a breath of the exhilarating element. Most of the men are stilled
in merciful slumbers, more or less peaceful or unquiet. One shout from a sleeper of "We'll
whip them yet, boys!" tells that Colby is fighting over in a dream his last battle, while from
others come groans only audible in hours of unconsciousness. In wakeful uneasiness, others
sigh for sleep, and are at length lulled to rest by soothing words or rhymes, not unfrequently
by the childish melodies of Mother Goose. And so the day's privilege of duty ends with gratitude,
and a healthful weariness that vanishes before the next morning.

I recall with delight my conversation with this captured boy, he was such a naïve specimen
of the true Southern arrogance. For instance:--

"Colonel," said he, respectfully, "are there any gentlemen on board the steamboat where I am
to be placed?"

I told him that such a question sounded strangely from a captured private soldier.

"Perhaps it does," said he wistfully, "and I know my position too well to offend an enemy.
I only wished to know"--and here he paused, evidently trying to find some form of expression
which could not possibly disturb the keenest sensibilities--"if there is likely to be any one
on board with whom I can associate."

This was carrying the joke rather too far. I told him that he would find United States officers
on board, and United States soldiers, and that it was to be hoped he would like their society,
as he probably would have no other for some time to come. But the characteristic feature of
the thing is, that I do not believe he meant to commit any impertinence whatever, but that
the youth rather aimed to compliment me by assuming that I appreciated the feelings of a man
made of porcelain, and would choose for him only the most choice and fastidious companionship.
But I must say that he seemed to me in no way superior, but rather quite inferior, to my own
black soldiers, who equalled him in courage and in manners, and far surpassed him in loyalty,
modesty, and common sense.

POOR RICHARD.

A STORY IN THREE PARTS.

PART III.

In country districts, where life is quiet, incidents do duty as events; and accordingly Captain
Severn's sudden departure for his regiment became very rapidly known among Gertrude's neighbors.
She herself heard it from her coachman, who had heard it in the village, where the Captain
had been seen to take the early train. She received the news calmly enough to outward appearance,
but a great tumult rose and died in her breast. He had gone without a word of farewell! Perhaps
he had not had time to call upon her. But bare civility would have dictated his dropping her
a line of writing,--he who must have read in her eyes the feeling which her lips refused to
utter, and who had been the object of her tenderest courtesy. It was not often that Gertrude
threw back into her friends' teeth their acceptance of the hospitality which it had been placed
in her power to offer them; but if she now mutely reproached Captain Severn with ingratitude,
it was because he had done more than slight her material gifts: he had slighted that constant
moral force with which these gifts were accompanied, and of which they were but the rude and
vulgar token. It is but natural to expect that our dearest friends will accredit us with our
deepest feelings; and Gertrude had constituted Edmund Severn her dearest friend. She had not,
indeed, asked his assent to this arrangement, but she had borne it out by a subtile devotion
which she felt that she had a right to exact of him that he should repay,--repay by letting
her know that, whether it was lost on his heart or not, it was at least not lost to his senses,--that,
if he could not return it, he could at least remember it. She had given him the flower of her
womanly tenderness, and, when his moment came, he had turned from her without a look. Gertrude
shed no tears. It seemed to her that she had given her friend tears enough, and that to expend
her soul in weeping would be to wrong herself. She would think no more of Edmund Severn. He
should be as little to her for the future as she was to him.

It was very easy to make this resolution: to keep it, Gertrude found another matter. She could
not think of the war, she could not talk with her neighbors of current events, she could not
take up a newspaper, without reverting to her absent friend. She found herself constantly harassed
with the apprehension that he had not allowed himself time really to recover, and that a fortnight's
exposure would send him back to the hospital. At last it occurred to her that civility required
that she should make a call upon Mrs. Martin, the Captain's sister; and a vague impression
that this lady might be the depositary of some farewell message--perhaps of a letter--which
she was awaiting her convenience to present, led her at once to undertake this social duty.
The carriage which had been ordered for her projected visit was at the door, when, within a
week after Severn's departure, Major Luttrel was announced. Gertrude received him in her bonnet.
His first care was to present Captain Severn's adieus, together with his regrets that he had
not had time to discharge them in person. As Luttrel made his speech, he watched his companion
narrowly, and was considerably reassured by the unflinching composure with which she listened
to it. The turn he had given to Severn's message had been the fruit of much mischievous cogitation.
It had seemed to him that, for his purposes, the assumption of a hasty, and as it were mechanical,
allusion to Miss Whittaker, was more serviceable than the assumption of no allusion at all,
which would have left a boundless void for the exercise of Gertrude's fancy. And he had reasoned
well; for although he was tempted to infer from her calmness that his shot had fallen short
of the mark, yet, in spite of her silent and almost smiling assent to his words, it had made
but one bound to her heart. Before many minutes, she felt that those words had done her a world
of good. "He had not had time!" Indeed, as she took to herself their full expression of perfect
indifference, she felt that her hard, forced smile was broadening into the sign of a lively
gratitude to the Major.

Major Luttrel had still another task to perform. He had spent half an hour on the preceding
day at Richard's bedside, having ridden over to the farm, in ignorance of his illness, to see
how matters stood with him. The reader will already have surmised that the Major was not pre-eminently
a man of conscience: he will, therefore, be the less surprised and shocked to hear that the
sighs of the poor young man, prostrate, fevered, and delirious, and to all appearance rapidly
growing worse, filled him with an emotion the reverse of creditable. In plain terms, he was
very glad to find Richard a prisoner in bed. He had been racking his brains for a scheme to
keep his young friend out of the way, and now, to his exceeding satisfaction, Nature had relieved
him of this troublesome care. If Richard was condemned to typhoid fever, which his symptoms
seemed to indicate, he would not, granting his recovery, be able to leave his room within a
month. In a month, much might be done; nay, with energy, all might be done. The reader has
been all but directly informed that the Major's present purpose was to secure Miss Whittaker's
hand. He was poor, and he was ambitious, and he was, moreover, so well advanced in life--being
thirty-six years of age--that he had no heart to think of building up his fortune by slow degrees.
A man of good breeding, too, he had become sensible, as he approached middle age, of the many
advantages of a luxurious home. He had accordingly decided that a wealthy marriage would most
easily unlock the gate to prosperity. A girl of a somewhat lighter calibre than Gertrude would
have been the woman--we cannot say of his heart; but, as he very generously argued, beggars
can't be choosers. Gertrude was a woman with a mind of her own; but, on the whole, he was not
afraid of her. He was abundantly prepared to do his duty. He had, of course, as became a man
of sense, duly weighed his obstacles against his advantages; but an impartial scrutiny had
found the latter heavier in the balance. The only serious difficulty in his path was the possibility
that, on hearing of Richard's illness, Gertrude, with her confounded benevolence, would take
a fancy to nurse him in person, and that, in the course of her ministrations, his delirious
ramblings would force upon her mind the damning story of the deception practised upon Captain
Severn. There was nothing for it but bravely to face this risk. As for that other fact, which
many men of a feebler spirit would have deemed an invincible obstacle, Luttrel's masterly understanding
had immediately converted it into the prime agent of success,--the fact, namely, that Gertrude's
heart was preoccupied. Such knowledge as he possessed of the relations between Miss Whittaker
and his brother officer he had gained by his unaided observations and his silent deductions.
These had been logical; for, on the whole, his knowledge was accurate. It was at least what
he might have termed a good working knowledge. He had calculated on a passionate reactionary
impulse on Gertrude's part, consequent on Severn's simulated offence. He knew that, in a generous
woman, such an impulse, if left to itself, would not go very far. But on this point it was
that his policy bore. He would not leave it to itself: he would take it gently into his hands,
attenuate it, prolong it, economize it, and mould it into the clew to his own good-fortune.
He thus counted much upon his skill and his tact; but he likewise placed a becoming degree
of reliance upon his solid personal qualities,--qualities too sober and too solid, perhaps,
to be called charms, but thoroughly adapted to inspire confidence. The Major was not handsome
in feature; he left that to younger men and to lighter women; but his ugliness was of a masculine,
aristocratic, intelligent stamp. His figure, moreover, was good enough to compensate for the
absence of a straight nose and a fine mouth; and his general bearing offered a most pleasing
combination of the gravity of the man of affairs and the versatility of the man of society.

In her sudden anxiety on Richard's behalf, Gertrude soon forgot her own immaterial woes. The
carriage which was to have conveyed her to Mrs. Martin's was used for a more disinterested
purpose. The Major, prompted by a strong faith in the salutary force of his own presence, having
obtained her permission to accompany her, they set out for the farm, and soon found themselves
in Richard's chamber. The young man was wrapped in a heavy sleep, from which it was judged
imprudent to arouse him. Gertrude, sighing as she compared his thinly furnished room with her
own elaborate apartments, drew up a mental list of essential luxuries which she would immediately
send him. Not but that he had received, however, a sufficiency of homely care. The doctor was
assiduous, and the old woman who nursed him was full of rough good-sense.

"He asks very often after you, Miss," she said, addressing Gertrude, but with a sly glance
at the Major. "But I think you'd better not come too often. I'm afraid you'd excite him more
than you'd quiet him."

"I'm afraid you would, Miss Whittaker," said the Major, who could have hugged the goodwife.

"Why should I excite him?" asked Gertrude, "I'm used to sick-rooms. I nursed my father for
a year and a half."

"O, it's very well for an old woman like me, but it's no place for a fine young lady like you,"
said the nurse, looking at Gertrude's muslins and laces.

"I'm not so fine as to desert a friend in distress," said Gertrude. "I shall come again, and
if it makes the poor fellow worse to see me, I shall stay away. I am ready to do anything that
will help him to get well."

It had already occurred to her that, in his unnatural state, Richard might find her presence
a source of irritation, and she was prepared to remain in the background. As she returned to
her carriage, she caught herself reflecting with so much pleasure upon Major Luttrel's kindness
in expending a couple of hours of his valuable time on so unprofitable an object as poor Richard,
that, by way of intimating her satisfaction, she invited him to come home and dine with her.

After a short interval she paid Richard a second visit, in company with Miss Pendexter. He
was a great deal worse; he lay emaciated, exhausted, and stupid. The issue was doubtful. Gertrude
immediately pushed forward to M----, a larger town than her own, sought out a professional
nurse, and arranged with him to relieve the old woman from the farm, who was worn out with
her vigilance. For a fortnight, moreover, she received constant tidings from the young man's
physician. During this fortnight, Major Luttrel was assiduous, and proportionately successful.

It may be said, to his credit, that he had by no means conducted his suit upon that narrow
programme which he had drawn up at the outset. He very soon discovered that Gertrude's resentment--if
resentment there was--was a substance utterly impalpable even to his most delicate tact, and
he had accordingly set to work to woo her like an honest man, from day to day, from hour to
hour, trusting so devoutly for success to momentary inspiration, that he felt his suit dignified
by a certain flattering faux air of genuine passion. He occasionally reminded himself, however,
that he might really be owing more to the subtle force of accidental contrast than Gertrude's
lifelong reserve--for it was certain she would not depart from it--would ever allow him to measure.

It was as an honest man, then, a man of impulse and of action, that Gertrude had begun to like
him. She was not slow to perceive whither his operations tended; and she was almost tempted
at times to tell him frankly that she would spare him the intermediate steps, and meet him
at the goal without further delay. It was not that she was prepared to love him, but she would
make him an obedient wife. An immense weariness had somehow come upon her, and a sudden sense
of loneliness. A vague suspicion that her money had done her an incurable wrong inspired her
with a profound distaste for the care of it. She felt cruelly hedged out from human sympathy
by her bristling possessions. "If I had had five hundred dollars a year," she said in a frequent
parenthesis, "I might have pleased him." Hating her wealth, accordingly, and chilled by her
isolation, the temptation was strong upon her to give herself up to that wise, brave gentleman
who seemed to have adopted such a happy medium betwixt loving her for her money and fearing
her for it. Would she not always stand between men who would represent the two extremes? She
would anticipate security by an alliance with Major Luttrel.

One evening, on presenting himself, Luttrel read these thoughts so clearly in her eyes, that
he made up his mind to speak. But his mind was burdened with a couple of facts, of which it
was necessary that he should discharge it before it could enjoy the freedom of action which
the occasion required. In the first place, then, he had been to see Richard Clare, and had
found him suddenly and decidedly better. It was unbecoming, however,--it was impossible,--that
he should allow Gertrude to linger over this pleasant announcement.

"I tell the good news first," he said, gravely. "I have some very bad news, too, Miss Whittaker."

Gertrude sent him a rapid glance, "Some one has been killed," she said.

"Captain Severn has been shot," said the Major,--"shot by a guerilla."

Gertrude was silent. No answer seemed possible to that uncompromising fact. She sat with her
head on her hand, and her elbow on the table beside her, looking at the figures on the carpet.
She uttered no words of commonplace regret; but she felt as little like giving way to serious
grief. She had lost nothing, and, to the best of her knowledge, he had lost nothing. She had
an old loss to mourn,--a loss a month old, which she had mourned as she might. To give way
to passion would have been but to impugn the solemnity of her past regrets. When she looked
up at her companion, she was pale, but she was calm, yet with a calmness upon which a single
glance of her eye directed him not inconsiderately to presume. She was aware that this glance
betrayed her secret; but in view both of Severn's death and of the Major's attitude, such betrayal
mattered less. Luttrel had prepared to act upon her hint, and to avert himself gently from
the topic, when Gertrude, who had dropped her eyes again, raised them with a slight shudder.
"I'm cold," she said. "Will you shut that window beside you, Major? Or stay, suppose you give
me my shawl from the sofa."

Luttrel brought the shawl, placed it on her shoulders, and sat down beside her. "These are
cruel times," he said, with studied simplicity. "I'm sure I hardly know what's to come of it all."

"Yes, they are cruel times," said Gertrude. "They make one feel cruel. They make one doubt
of all he has learnt from his pastors and masters."

"Yes, but they teach us something new also."

"I'm sure I don't know," said Gertrude, whose heart was so full of bitterness that she felt
almost malignant. "They teach us how mean we are. War is an infamy, Major, though it is your
trade. It's very well for you, who look at it professionally, and for those who go and fight;
but it's a miserable business for those who stay at home, and do the thinking and the sentimentalizing.
It's a miserable business for women; it makes us more spiteful than ever."

"Well, a little spite isn't a bad thing, in practice," said the Major. "War is certainly an
abomination, both at home and in the field. But as wars go, Miss Whittaker, our own is a very
satisfactory one. It involves something. It won't leave us as it found us. We're in the midst
of a revolution, and what's a revolution but a turning upside down? It makes sad work with
our habits and theories and our traditions and convictions. But, on the other hand," Luttrel
pursued, warming to his task, "it leaves something untouched, which is better than these,--I
mean our feelings, Miss Whittaker." And the Major paused until he had caught Gertrude's eyes,
when, having engaged them with his own, he proceeded. "I think they are the stronger for the
downfall of so much else, and, upon my soul, I think it's in them we ought to take refuge.
Don't you think so?"

"Yes, if I understand you."

"I mean our serious feelings, you know,--not our tastes nor our passions. I don't advocate
fiddling while Rome is burning. In fact it's only poor, unsatisfied devils that are tempted
to fiddle. There is one feeling which is respectable and honorable, and even sacred, at all
times and in all places, whatever they may be. It doesn't depend upon circumstances, but they
upon it; and with its help, I think, we are a match for any circumstances. I don't mean religion,
Miss Whittaker," added the Major, with a sober smile.

"If you don't mean religion," said Gertrude, "I suppose you mean love. That's a very different
thing."

"Yes, a very different thing; so I've always thought, and so I'm glad to hear you say. Some
people, you know, mix them up in the most extraordinary fashion. I don't fancy myself an especially
religious man; in fact, I believe I'm rather otherwise. It's my nature. Half mankind are born
so, or I suppose the affairs of this world wouldn't move. But I believe I'm a good lover, Miss
Whittaker."

"I hope for your own sake you are, Major Luttrel."

"Thank you. Do you think now you could entertain the idea for the sake of any one else?"

Gertrude neither dropped her eyes, nor shrugged her shoulders, nor blushed. If anything, indeed,
she turned somewhat paler than before, as she sustained her companion's gaze, and prepared
to answer him as directly as she might.

"If I loved you, Major Luttrel," she said, "I should value the idea for my own sake."

The Major, too, blanched a little. "I put my question conditionally," he answered, "and I have
got, as I deserved, a conditional reply. I will speak plainly, then, Miss Whittaker. Do you
value the fact for your own sake? It would be plainer still to say, Do you love me? but I confess
I'm not brave enough for that. I will say, Can you? or I will even content myself with putting
it in the conditional again, and asking you if you could; although, after all, I hardly know
what the if understood can reasonably refer to. I'm not such a fool as to ask of any woman--least
of all of you--to love me contingently. You can only answer for the present, and say yes or
no. I shouldn't trouble you to say either, if I didn't conceive that I had given you time to
make up your mind. It doesn't take forever to know James Luttrel. I'm not one of the great
unfathomable ones. We've seen each other more or less intimately for a good many weeks; and
as I'm conscious, Miss Whittaker, of having shown you my best, I take for granted that if you
don't fancy me now, you won't a month hence, when you shall have seen my faults. Yes, Miss
Whittaker, I can solemnly say," continued the Major, with genuine feeling, "I have shown you
my best, as every man is in honor bound to do who approaches a woman with those predispositions
with which I have approached you. I have striven hard to please you,"--and he paused. "I can
only say, I hope I have succeeded."

"I should be very insensible," said Gertrude, "if all your kindness and your courtesy had been
lost upon me."

"In Heaven's name, don't talk about courtesy," cried the Major.

"I am deeply conscious of your devotion, and I am very much obliged to you for urging your
claims so respectfully and considerately. I speak seriously, Major Luttrel," pursued Gertrude.
"There is a happy medium of expression, and you have taken it. Now it seems to me that there
is a happy medium of affection, with which you might be content. Strictly, I don't love you.
I question my heart, and it gives me that answer. The feeling that I have is not a feeling
to work prodigies."

"May it at least work the prodigy of allowing you to be my wife?"

"I don't think I shall over-estimate its strength, if I say that it may. If you can respect
a woman who gives you her hand in cold blood, you are welcome to mine."

Luttrel moved his chair and took her hand. "Beggars can't be choosers," said he, raising it
to his mustache.

"O Major Luttrel, don't say that," she answered. "I give you a great deal; but I keep a little,--a
little," said Gertrude, hesitating, "which I suppose I shall give to God."

"Well, I shall not be jealous," said Luttrel.

"The rest I give to you, and in return I ask a great deal."

"I shall give you all. You know I told you I'm not religious."

"No, I don't want more than I give," said Gertrude.

"But, pray," asked Luttrel, with a delicate smile, "what am I to do with the difference?"

"You had better keep it for yourself. What I want is your protection, sir, and your advice,
and your care. I want you to take me away from this place, even if you have to take me down
to the army. I want to see the world under the shelter of your name. I shall give you a great
deal of trouble. I'm a mere mass of possessions: what I am, is nothing to what I have. But
ever since I began to grow up, what I am has been the slave of what I have. I am weary of my
chains, and you must help me to carry them,"--and Gertrude rose to her feet as if to inform
the Major that his audience was at an end.

He still held her right hand; she gave him the other. He stood looking down at her, an image
of manly humility, while from his silent breast went out a brief thanksgiving to favoring fortune.

At the pressure of his hands, Gertrude felt her bosom heave. She burst into tears. "O, you
must be very kind to me!" she cried, as he put his arm about her, and she dropped her head
upon his shoulder.

       *       *       *       *       *

When once Richard's health had taken a turn for the better, it began very rapidly to improve.
"Until he is quite well," Gertrude said, one day, to her accepted suitor, "I had rather he
heard nothing of our engagement. He was once in love with me himself," she added, very frankly.
"Did you ever suspect it? But I hope he will have got better of that sad malady, too. Nevertheless,
I shall expect nothing of his good judgment until he is quite strong; and as he may hear of
my new intentions from other people, I propose that, for the present, we confide them to no one."

"But if he asks me point-blank," said the Major, "what shall I answer?"

"It's not likely he'll ask you. How should he suspect anything?"

"O," said Luttrel, "Clare is one that suspects everything."

"Tell him we're not engaged, then. A woman in my position may say what she pleases."

It was agreed, however, that certain preparations for the marriage should meanwhile go forward
in secret; and that the marriage itself should take place in August, as Luttrel expected to
be ordered back into service in the autumn. At about this moment Gertrude was surprised to
receive a short note from Richard, so feebly scrawled in pencil as to be barely legible. "Dear
Gertrude," it ran, "don't come to see me just yet. I'm not fit. You would hurt me, and vice
versa. God bless you! R. CLARE." Miss Whittaker explained his request, by the supposition that
a report had come to him of Major Luttrel's late assiduities (which it was impossible should
go unobserved); that, leaping at the worst, he had taken her engagement for granted; and that,
under this impression, he could not trust himself to see her. She despatched him an answer,
telling him that she would await his pleasure, and that, if the doctor would consent to his
having letters, she would meanwhile occasionally write to him. "She will give me good advice,"
thought Richard impatiently; and on this point, accordingly, she received no account of his
wishes. Expecting to leave her house and close it on her marriage, she spent many hours in
wandering sadly over the meadow-paths and through the woodlands which she had known from her
childhood. She had thrown aside the last ensigns of filial regret, and now walked sad and splendid
in the uncompromising colors of an affianced bride. It would have seemed to a stranger that,
for a woman who had freely chosen a companion for life, she was amazingly spiritless and sombre.
As she looked at her pale cheeks and heavy eyes in the mirror, she felt ashamed that she had
no fairer countenance to offer to her destined lord. She had lost her single beauty, her smile;
and she would make but a ghastly figure at the altar. "I ought to wear a calico dress and an
apron," she said to herself, "and not this glaring finery." But she continued to wear her finery,
and to lay out her money, and to perform all her old duties to the letter. After the lapse
of what she deemed a sufficient interval, she went to see Mrs. Martin, and to listen dumbly
to her narration of her brother's death, and to her simple eulogies.

Major Luttrel performed his part quite as bravely, and much more successfully. He observed
neither too many things nor too few; he neither presumed upon his success, nor mistrusted it.
Having on his side received no prohibition from Richard, he resumed his visits at the farm,
trusting that, with the return of reason, his young friend might feel disposed to renew that
anomalous alliance in which, on the hapless evening of Captain Severn's farewell, he had taken
refuge against his despair. In the long, languid hours of his early convalescence, Richard
had found time to survey his position, to summon back piece by piece the immediate past, and
to frame a general scheme for the future. But more vividly than anything else, there had finally
disengaged itself from his meditations a profound aversion to James Luttrel.

It was in this humor that the Major found him; and as he looked at the young man's gaunt shoulders,
supported by pillows, at his face, so livid and aquiline, at his great dark eyes, luminous
with triumphant life, it seemed to him that an invincible spirit had been sent from a better
world to breathe confusion upon his hopes. If Richard hated the Major, the reader may guess
whether the Major loved Richard. Luttrel was amazed at his first remark.

"I suppose you're engaged by this time," Richard said, calmly enough.

"Not quite," answered the Major. "There's a chance for you yet."

To this Richard made no rejoinder. Then, suddenly, "Have you had any news of Captain Severn?"
he asked.

For a moment the Major was perplexed at his question. He had assumed that the news of Severn's
death had come to Richard's ears, and he had been half curious, half apprehensive as to its
effect. But an instant's reflection now assured him that the young man's estrangement from
his neighbors had kept him hitherto and might still keep him in ignorance of the truth. Hastily,
therefore, and inconsiderately, the Major determined to confirm this ignorance. "No," said
he; "I've had no news. Severn and I are not on such terms as to correspond."

The next time Luttrel came to the farm, he found the master sitting up in a great, cushioned,
chintz-covered arm-chair which Gertrude had sent him the day before out of her own dressing-room.

"Are you engaged yet?" asked Richard.

There was a strain as if of defiance in his tone. The Major was irritated. "Yes," said he,
"we are engaged now."

The young man's face betrayed no emotion.

"Are you reconciled to it?" asked Luttrel.

"Yes, practically I am."

"What do you mean by practically? Explain yourself."

"A man in my state can't explain himself. I mean that, however I feel about it, I shall accept
Gertrude's marriage."

"You're a wise man, my boy," said the Major, kindly.

"I'm growing wise. I feel like Solomon on his throne in this chair. But I confess, sir, I don't
see how she could have you."

"Well, there's no accounting for tastes," said the Major, good-humoredly.

"Ah, if it's been a matter of taste with her," said Richard, "I have nothing to say."

They came to no more express understanding than this with regard to the future. Richard continued
to grow stronger daily, and to defer the renewal of his intercourse with Gertrude. A month
before, he would have resented as a bitter insult the intimation that he would ever be so resigned
to lose her as he now found himself. He would not see her for two reasons: first, because he
felt that it would be--or that at least in reason it ought to be--a painful experience to look
upon his old mistress with a coldly critical eye; and secondly, because, justify to himself
as he would his new-born indifference, he could not entirely cast away the suspicion that it
was a last remnant of disease, and that, when he stood on his legs again in the presence of
those exuberant landscapes with which he had long since established a sort of sensuous communion,
he would feel, as with a great tumultuous rush, the return of his impetuous manhood and of
his old capacity. When he had smoked a pipe in the outer sunshine, when he had settled himself
once more to the long elastic bound of his mare, then he would see Gertrude. The reason of
the change which had come upon him was that she had disappointed him,--she whose magnanimity
it had once seemed that his fancy was impotent to measure. She had accepted Major Luttrel,
a man whom he despised; she had so mutilated her magnificent heart as to match it with his.
The validity of his dislike to the Major, Richard did not trouble himself to examine. He accepted
it as an unerring instinct; and, indeed, he might have asked himself, had he not sufficient
proof? Moreover he labored under the sense of a gratuitous wrong. He had suffered an immense
torment of remorse to drive him into brutishness, and thence to the very gate of death, for
an offence which he had deemed mortal, and which was after all but a phantasm of his impassioned
conscience. What a fool he had been! a fool for his nervous fears, and a fool for his penitence.
Marriage with Major Luttrel,--such was the end of Gertrude's fancied anguish. Such, too, we
hardly need add, was the end of that idea of reparation which had been so formidable to Luttrel.
Richard had been generous; he would now be just.

Far from impeding his recovery, these reflections hastened it. One morning in the beginning
of August, Gertrude received notice of Richard's presence. It was a still, sultry day, and
Miss Whittaker, her habitual pallor deepened by the oppressive heat, was sitting alone in a
white morning-dress, languidly fanning aside at once the droning flies and her equally importunate
thoughts. She found Richard standing in the middle of the drawing-room, booted and spurred.

"Well, Richard," she exclaimed, with some feeling, "you're at last willing to see me!"

As his eyes fell upon her, he started and stood almost paralyzed, heeding neither her words
nor her extended hand. It was not Gertrude he saw, but her ghost.

"In Heaven's name what has happened to you?" he cried. "Have you been ill?"

Gertrude tried to smile in feigned surprise at his surprise; but her muscles relaxed. Richard's
words and looks reflected more vividly than any mirror the dejection of her person; and this,
the misery of her soul. She felt herself growing faint. She staggered back to a sofa and sank down.

Then Richard felt as if the room were revolving about him, and as if his throat were choked
with imprecations,--as if his old erratic passion had again taken possession of him, like a
mingled legion of devils and angels. It was through pity that his love returned. He went forward
and dropped on his knees at Gertrude's feet. "Speak to me!" he cried, seizing her hands. "Are
you unhappy? Is your heart broken? O Gertrude! what have you come to?"

Gertrude drew her hands from his grasp and rose to her feet. "Get up, Richard," she said. "Don't
talk so wildly. I'm not well. I'm very glad to see you. You look well."

"I've got my strength again,--and meanwhile you've been failing. You're unhappy, you're wretched!
Don't say you're not, Gertrude: it's as plain as day. You're breaking your heart."

"The same old Richard!" said Gertrude, trying to smile again.

"Would that you were the same old Gertrude! Don't try to smile; you can't!"

"I shall!" said Gertrude, desperately. "I'm going to be married, you know."

"Yes, I know. I don't congratulate you."

"I have not counted upon that honor, Richard. I shall have to do without it."

"You'll have to do without a great many things!" cried Richard, horrified by what seemed to
him her blind self-immolation.

"I have all I ask," said Gertrude.

"You haven't all I ask then! You haven't all your friends ask."

"My friends are very kind, but I marry to suit myself."

"You've not suited yourself!" retorted the young man. "You've suited--God knows what!--your
pride, your despair, your resentment." As he looked at her, the secret history of her weakness
seemed to become plain to him, and he felt a mighty rage against the man who had taken a base
advantage of it. "Gertrude!" he cried, "I entreat you to go back. It's not for my sake,--I'll
give you up,--I'll go a thousand miles away, and never look at you again. It's for your own.
In the name of your happiness, break with that man! Don't fling yourself away. Buy him off,
if you consider yourself bound. Give him your money. That's all he wants."

As Gertrude listened, the blood came back to her face, and two flames into her eyes. She looked
at Richard from head to foot. "You are not weak," she said, "you are in your senses, you are
well and strong; you shall tell me what you mean. You insult the best friend I have. Explain
yourself! you insinuate foul things,--speak them out!" Her eyes glanced toward the door, and
Richard's followed them. Major Luttrel stood on the threshold.

"Come in, sir!" cried Richard. "Gertrude swears she'll believe no harm of you. Come and tell
her that she's wrong! How can you keep on harassing a woman whom you've brought to this state?
Think of what she was three months ago, and look at her now!"

Luttrel received this broadside without flinching. He had overheard Richard's voice from the
entry, and he had steeled his heart for the encounter. He assumed the air of having been so
amazed by the young man's first words as only to have heard his last; and he glanced at Gertrude
mechanically as if to comply with them. "What's the matter?" he asked, going over to her, and
taking her hand; "are you ill?" Gertrude let him have her hand, but she forbore to meet his eyes.

"Ill! of course she's ill!" cried Richard, passionately. "She's dying,--she's consuming herself!
I know I seem to be playing an odious part here, Gertrude, but, upon my soul, I can't help
it. I look like a betrayer, an informer, a sneak, but I don't feel like one! Still, I'll leave
you, if you say so."

"Shall he go, Gertrude?" asked Luttrel, without looking at Richard.

"No. Let him stay and explain himself. He has accused you,--let him prove his case."

"I know what he is going to say," said Luttrel. "It will place me in a bad light. Do you still
wish to hear it?"

Gertrude drew her hand hastily out of Luttrel's. "Speak, Richard!" she cried, with a passionate
gesture.

"I will speak," said Richard. "I've done you a dreadful wrong, Gertrude. How great a wrong,
I never knew until I saw you to-day so miserably altered. When I heard that you were to be
married, I fancied that it was no wrong, and that my remorse had been wasted. But I understand
it now; and he understands it, too. You once told me that you had ceased to love Captain Severn.
It wasn't true. You never ceased to love him. You love him at this moment. If he were to get
another wound in the next battle, how would you feel? How would you bear it?" And Richard paused
for an instant with the force of his interrogation.

"For God's sake," cried Gertrude, "respect the dead!"

"The dead! Is he dead?"

Gertrude covered her face with her hands.

"You beast!" cried Luttrel.

Richard turned upon him savagely. "Shut your infernal mouth!" he roared. "You told me he was
alive and well!"

Gertrude made a movement of speechless distress.

"You would have it, my dear," said Luttrel, with a little bow.

Richard had turned pale, and began to tremble. "Excuse me, Gertrude," he said, hoarsely, "I've
been deceived. Poor, unhappy woman! Gertrude," he continued, going nearer to her, and speaking
in a whisper, "I killed him."

Gertrude fell back from him, as he approached her, with a look of unutterable horror. "I and
he," said Richard, pointing at Luttrel.

Gertrude's eyes followed the direction of his gesture, and transferred their scorching disgust
to her suitor. This was too much for Luttrel's courage. "You idiot!" she shouted at Richard,
"speak out!"

"He loved you, though you believed he didn't," said Richard. "I saw it the first time I looked
at him. To every one but you it was as plain as day. Luttrel saw it too. But he was too modest,
and he never fancied you cared for him. The night before he went back to the army, he came
to bid you good by. If he had seen you, it would have been better for every one. You remember
that evening, of course. We met him, Luttrel and I. He was all on fire,--he meant to speak.
I knew it, you knew it, Luttrel: it was in his fingers' ends. I intercepted him. I turned him
off,--I lied to him and told him you were away. I was a coward, and I did neither more nor
less than that. I knew you were waiting for him. It was stronger than my will,--I believe I
should do it again. Fate was against him, and he went off. I came back to tell you, but my
damnable jealousy strangled me. I went home and drank myself into a fever. I've done you a
wrong that I can never repair. I'd go hang myself if I thought it would help you." Richard
spoke slowly, softly, and explicitly, as if irresistible Justice in person had her hand upon
his neck, and were forcing him down upon his knees. In the presence of Gertrude's dismay nothing
seemed possible but perfect self-conviction. In Luttrel's attitude, as he stood with his head
erect, his arms folded, and his cold gray eye fixed upon the distance, it struck him that there
was something atrociously insolent; not insolent to him,--for that he cared little enough,--but
insolent to Gertrude and to the dreadful solemnity of the hour. Richard sent the Major a look
of the most aggressive contempt. "As for Major Luttrel," he said, "he was but a passive spectator.
No, Gertrude, by Heaven!" he burst out; "he was worse than I! I loved you, and he didn't!"

"Our friend is correct in his facts, Gertrude," said Luttrel, quietly. "He is incorrect in
his opinions. I was a passive spectator of his deception. He appeared to enjoy a certain authority
with regard to your wishes,--the source of which I respected both of you sufficiently never
to question,--and I accepted the act which he has described as an exercise of it. You will
remember that you had sent us away on the ground that you were in no humor for company. To
deny you, therefore, to another visitor, seemed to me rather officious, but still pardonable.
You will consider that I was wholly ignorant of your relations to that visitor; that whatever
you may have done for others, Gertrude, to me you never vouchsafed a word of information on
the subject, and that Mr. Clare's words are a revelation to me. But I am bound to believe nothing
that he says. I am bound to believe that I have injured you only when I hear it from your own
lips."

Richard made a movement as if to break out upon the Major; but Gertrude, who had been standing
motionless with her eyes upon the ground, quickly raised them, and gave him a look of imperious
prohibition. She had listened, and she had chosen. She turned to Luttrel. "Major Luttrel,"
she said, "you have been an accessory in what has been for me a serious grief. It is my duty
to tell you so. I mean, of course, a profoundly unwilling accessory. I pity you more than I
can tell you. I think your position more pitiable than mine. It is true that I never made a
confidant of you. I never made one of Richard. I had a secret, and he surprised it. You were
less fortunate." It might have seemed to a thoroughly dispassionate observer that in these
last four words there was an infinitesimal touch of tragic irony. Gertrude paused a moment
while Luttrel eyed her intently, and Richard, from a somewhat tardy instinct of delicacy, walked
over to the bow-window. "This is the most painful moment of my life," she resumed. "I hardly
know where my duty lies. The only thing that is plain to me is, that I must ask you to release
me from my engagement. I ask it most humbly, Major Luttrel," Gertrude continued, with warmth
in her words, and a chilling coldness in her voice,--a coldness which it sickened her to feel
there, but which she was unable to dispel. "I can't expect that you should give me up easily;
I know that it's a great deal to ask, and"--she forced the chosen words out of her mouth--"I
should thank you more than I can say if you would put some condition upon my release. You have
done honorably by me, and I repay you with ingratitude. But I can't marry you." Her voice began
to melt. "I have been false from the beginning. I have no heart to give you. I should make
you a despicable wife."

The Major, too, had listened and chosen, and in this trying conjuncture he set the seal to
his character as an accomplished man. He saw that Gertrude's movement was final, and he determined
to respect the inscrutable mystery of her heart. He read in the glance of her eye and the tone
of her voice that the perfect dignity had fallen from his character,--that his integrity had
lost its bloom; but he also read her firm resolve never to admit this fact to her own mind,
nor to declare it to the world, and he honored her forbearance. His hopes, his ambitions, his
visions, lay before him like a colossal heap of broken glass; but he would be as graceful as
she was. She had divined him; but she had spared him. The Major was inspired.

"You have at least spoken to the point," he said. "You leave no room for doubt or for hope.
With the little light I have, I can't say I understand your feelings, but I yield to them religiously.
I believe so thoroughly that you suffer from the thought of what you ask of me, that I will
not increase your suffering by assuring you of my own. I care for nothing but your happiness.
You have lost it, and I give you mine to replace it. And although it's a simple thing to say,"
he added, "I must say simply that I thank you for your implicit faith in my integrity,"--and
he held out his hand. As she gave him hers, Gertrude felt utterly in the wrong; and she looked
into his eyes with an expression so humble, so appealing, so grateful, that, after all, his
exit may be called triumphant.

When he had gone, Richard turned from the window with an enormous sense of relief. He had heard
Gertrude's speech, and he knew that perfect justice had not been done; but still there was
enough to be thankful for. Yet now that his duty was accomplished, he was conscious of a sudden
lassitude. Mechanically he looked at Gertrude, and almost mechanically he came towards her.
She, on her side, looking at him as he walked slowly down the long room, his face indistinct
against the deadened light of the white-draped windows behind him, marked the expression of
his figure with another pang. "He has rescued me," she said to herself; "but his passion has
perished in the tumult. Richard," she said aloud, uttering the first words of vague kindness
that came into her mind, "I forgive you."

Richard stopped. The idea had lost its charm. "You're very kind," he said, wearily. "You're
far too kind. How do you know you forgive me? Wait and see."

Gertrude looked at him as she had never looked before; but he saw nothing of it. He saw a sad,
plain girl in a white dress, nervously handling her fan. He was thinking of himself. If he
had been thinking of her, he would have read in her lingering, upward gaze, that he had won
her; and if, so reading, he had opened his arms, Gertrude would have come to them. We trust
the reader is not shocked. She neither hated him nor despised him, as she ought doubtless in
consistency to have done. She felt that he was abundantly a man, and she loved him. Richard
on his side felt humbly the same truth, and he began to respect himself. The past had closed
abruptly behind him, and tardy Gertrude had been shut in. The future was dimly shaping itself
without her image. So he did not open his arms.

"Good by," he said, holding out his hand. "I may not see you again for a long time."

Gertrude felt as if the world were deserting her. "Are you going away?" she asked, tremulously.

"I mean to sell out and pay my debts, and go to the war."

She gave him her hand, and he silently shook it. There was no contending with the war, and
she gave him up.

With their separation our story properly ends, and to say more would be to begin a new story.
It is perhaps our duty, however, expressly to add, that Major Luttrel, in obedience to a logic
of his own, abstained from revenge; and that, if time has not avenged him, it has at least
rewarded him. General Luttrel, who lost an arm before the war was over, recently married Miss
Van Winkel of Philadelphia, and seventy thousand a year. Richard engaged in the defence of
his country, on a captain's commission, obtained with some difficulty. He saw a great deal
of fighting, but he has no scars to show. The return of peace found him in his native place,
without a home, and without resources. One of his first acts was to call dutifully and respectfully
upon Miss Whittaker, whose circle of acquaintance had apparently become very much enlarged,
and now included a vast number of gentlemen. Gertrude's manner was kindness itself, but a more
studied kindness than before. She had lost much of her youth and her simplicity. Richard wondered
whether she had pledged herself to spinsterhood, but of course he didn't ask her. She inquired
very particularly into his material prospects and intentions, and offered most urgently to
lend him money, which he declined to borrow. When he left her, he took a long walk through
her place and beside the river, and, wandering back to the days when he had yearned for her
love, assured himself that no woman would ever again be to him what she had been. During his
stay in this neighborhood he found himself impelled to a species of submission to one of the
old agricultural magnates whom he had insulted in his unregenerate days, and through whom he
was glad to obtain some momentary employment. But his present position is very distasteful
to him, and he is eager to try his fortunes in the West. As yet, however, he has lacked even
the means to get as far as St. Louis. He drinks no more than is good for him. To speak of Gertrude's
impressions of Richard would lead us quite too far. Shortly after his return she broke up her
household, and came to the bold resolution (bold, that is, for a woman young, unmarried, and
ignorant of manners in her own country) to spend some time in Europe. At our last accounts
she was living in the ancient city of Florence. Her great wealth, of which she was wont to
complain that it excluded her from human sympathy, now affords her a most efficient protection.
She passes among her fellow-countrymen abroad for a very independent, but a very happy woman;
although, as she is by this time twenty-seven years of age, a little romance is occasionally
invoked to account for her continued celibacy.

THE GROWTH, LIMITATIONS, AND TOLERATION OF SHAKESPEARE'S GENIUS.

In an article on Shakespeare in the June number of this Magazine, we spoke of his general comprehensiveness
and creativeness, of his method of characterization, and of the identity of his genius with
his individuality. In the present article we purpose to treat of some particular topics included
in the general theme; and as criticism on him is like coasting along a continent, we shall
make little pretension to system in the order of taking them up.

The first of these topics is the succession of Shakespeare's works, considered as steps in
the growth and development of his powers,--a subject which has already been ably handled by
our countryman, Mr. Verplanck. The facts, as far as they can be ascertained, are these. Shakespeare
went to London about the year 1586, in his twenty-second year, and found some humble employment
in one of the theatrical companies. Three years afterwards, in 1589, he had risen to be one
of the sharers in the Blackfriars' Theatre. In 1592 he had acquired sufficient reputation as
a dramatist, or at least as a recaster of the plays of others, to excite the jealousy of the
leading playwrights, whose crude dramas he condescended to rewrite or retouch. Doubtless this
charge of adopting and adapting the productions of others includes some dramas which have not
been preserved, as the company to which Shakespeare was attached owned the manuscripts of a
great number of plays which were never printed; and it was a custom, when a play had popular
elements in it, for other dramatists to be employed in making such additions as would give
continual novelty to the old favorite. But of the plays published in our editions of Shakespeare's
writings, it is probable that "The Comedy of Errors," and the three parts of "King Henry VI.,"
are only partially his, and should be classed among his early adaptations, and not among his
early creations. The play of "Pericles" bears no marks of his mind, except in some scenes of
transcendent power and beauty, which start up from the rest of the work like towers of gold
from a plain of sand; but these scenes are in his latest manner. In regard to the tragedy of
"Titus Andronicus," we are so constituted as to resist all the external evidence by which such
a shapeless mass of horrors and absurdities is fastened on Shakespeare. Mr. Verplanck thinks
it one of Shakespeare's first attempts at dramatic composition; but first attempts must reflect
the mental condition of the author at the time they were made; and we know the mental condition
of Shakespeare in his early manhood by his poem of "Venus and Adonis," which he expressly styles
"the first heir of his invention." Now leaving out of view the fact that "Titus Andronicus"
stamps the impression, not of youthful, but of matured depravity of taste, its execrable enormities
of feeling and incident could not have proceeded from the sweet and comely nature in which
the poem had its birth. The best criticism on "Titus Andronicus" was made by Robert Burns,
when he was nine years old. His schoolmaster was reading the play aloud in his father's cottage,
and when he came to the scene where Lavinia enters with her hands cut off and her tongue cut
out, little Robert fell a-crying, and threatened, in case the play was left in the cottage,
to burn it. It is hard to believe that what Burns despised and detested at the age of nine
could have been written by Shakespeare at the age of twenty-five. Taking, then, "Venus and
Adonis" as the point of departure, we find Shakespeare at the age of twenty-two endowed with
all the faculties, but relatively deficient in the passions, of the poet. The poem is a throng
of thoughts, fancies, and imaginations, but somewhat cramped in the utterance. Fine as this
is, it would perhaps be more exact to say, that in his earlier poems his intellect, acting
apart from his sensibility, and playing with its own ingenuities of fancy and meditation, condensed
its thoughts in crystals. Afterwards, when his whole nature became liquid, he gave us his thoughts
in a state of fusion, and his intellect flowed in streams of fire.

Take, for example, that passage in the poem where Venus represents the loveliness of Adonis
as sending thrills of passion into the earth on which he treads, and as making the bashful
moon hide herself from the sight of his bewildering beauty:--

    "But if thou fall, O, then imagine this!
      The earth, in love with thee, thy footing trips,
    And all is but to rob thee of a kiss.
      Rich preys make true men thieves; so do thy lips
    Make modest Dian cloudy and forlorn,
    Lest she should steal a kiss and die forsworn.

    "Now of this dark night I perceive the reason:
      Cynthia for shame obscures her silver shine,
    Till forging Nature be condemned of treason,
      For stealing moulds from heaven that were divine.
    Wherein she framed thee, in high heaven's despite.
    To shame the sun by day and her by night."

This is reflected and reflecting passion, or, at least, imagination awakening passion, rather
than passion penetrating imagination.

If, as is probable, "Venus and Adonis" was written as early as 1586, we may suppose that the
plays which represent the boyhood of his genius, and which are strongly marked with the characteristics
of that poem, namely, "The Two Gentlemen of Verona," the first draft of "Love's Labor's Lost,"
and the original "Romeo and Juliet," were produced before the year 1592. Following these came
"King Richard III.," "King Richard II.," "A Midsummer Night's Dream," "King John," "The Merchant
of Venice," and "King Henry IV.," all of which we know were written before 1598, when Shakespeare
was in his thirty-fourth year. During the next eight years he produced "King Henry V.," "The
Merry Wives of Windsor," "As You Like It," "Hamlet," "Twelfth Night," "Measure for Measure,"
"Othello," "Macbeth," and "King Lear." In this list are the four great tragedies in which his
genius culminated. Then came "Troilus and Cressida," "Timon of Athens," "Julius Cæsar," "Antony
and Cleopatra," "Cymbeline," "King Henry VIII.," "The Tempest," "The Winter's Tale," and "Coriolanus."
If heed be paid to this order of the plays, it will be seen at once that a quotation from Shakespeare
carries with it a very different degree of authority, according as it refers to the youth or
the maturity of his mind.

Indeed, when we reflect that between the production of "The Two Gentlemen of Verona" and "King
Lear" there is only a space of fifteen years, we must admit that the history of the human intellect
presents no other example of such marvellous progress; and if we note the giant strides by
which it was made, we shall find that they all imply a progressive widening and deepening of
soul, a positive growth of the nature of the man, until in Lear the power became supreme and
becomes amazing. Mr. Verplanck considers the period when he produced his four great tragedies
to be the period of his intellectual grandeur, as distinguished from an earlier period which
he thinks shows the perfection of his merely poetic and imaginative power; but the fact would
seem to be that his increasing greatness as a philosopher was fully matched by his increasing
greatness as a poet, and that in the devouring swiftness of his onward and upward movement
imagination kept abreast of reason. His imagination was never more vivid, all-informing, and
creative,--never penetrated with more unerring certainty to the inmost spiritual essence of
whatever it touched,--never forced words and rhythm into more supple instruments of thought
and feeling,--than when it miracled into form the terror and pity and beauty of Lear.

Indeed, the coequal growth of his reason and imagination was owing to the wider scope and increased
energy of the great moving forces of his being. It relates primarily to the heart rather than
the head. It is the immense fiery force behind his mental powers, kindling them into white
heat, and urging them to efforts almost preternatural,--it is this which impels the daring
thought beyond the limits of positive knowledge, and prompts the starts of ecstasy in whose
unexpected radiance nature and human life are transfigured, and for an instant shine with celestial
light. In truth he is, relatively, more intellectual in his early than in his later plays,
for in his later plays his intellect is thoroughly impassioned, and, though it has really grown
in strength and massiveness, it is so fused with imagination and emotion as to be less independently
prominent.

The sources of individuality lie below the intellect; and as Shakespeare went deeper into the
soul of man, he more and more represented the brain as the organ and instrument of the heart,
as the channel through which sentiment, passion, and character found an intelligible outlet.
His own mind was singularly objective; that is, he saw things as they are in themselves. The
minds of his prominent characters are all subjective, and see things as they are modified by
the peculiarities of their individual moods and emotions. The very objectivity of his own mind
enables him to assume the subjective conditions of less-emancipated natures. Macbeth peoples
the innocent air with menacing shapes, projected from his own fiend-haunted imagination; but
the same air is "sweet and wholesome" to the poet who gave being to Macbeth. The meridian of
Shakespeare's power was reached when he created Othello, Macbeth, and Lear, complex personalities,
representing the conflict and complication of the mightiest passions in colossal forms of human
character, and whose understandings and imaginations, whose perceptions of nature and human
life, and whose weightiest utterances of moral wisdom, are all thoroughly subjective and individualized.
The greatness of these characters, as compared with his earlier creations, consists in the
greater intensity and amplitude of their natures, and the wider variety of faculties and passions
included in the strict unity of their natures. Richard III., for example, is one of his earlier
characters, and though excellent of its kind, its excellence has been approached by other dramatists,
as, for instance, Massinger, in "Sir Giles Overreach." But no other dramatist has been able
to grasp and represent a character similar in kind to Macbeth, and the reason is that Richard
is comparatively a simple conception, while Macbeth is a complex one. There is unity and versatility
in Richard; there is unity and variety in Macbeth. Richard is capable of being developed with
almost logical accuracy; for though there is versatility in the play of his intellect, there
is little variety in the motives which direct his intellect. His wickedness is not exhibited
in the making. He is so completely and gleefully a villain from the first, that he is not restrained
from convenient crime by any scruples and relentings. The vigor of his will is due to his poverty
of feeling and conscience. He is a brilliant and efficient criminal because he is shorn of
the noblest attributes of man. Put, if you could, Macbeth's heart and imagination into him,
and his will would be smitten with impotence, and his wit be turned to wailing. The intellect
of Macbeth is richer and grander than Richard's, yet Richard is relatively a more intellectual
character; for the intellect of Macbeth is rooted in his moral nature, and is secondary in
our thoughts to the contending motives and emotions it obeys and reveals. In crime, as in virtue,
what a man overcomes should enter into our estimate of the power exhibited in what he does.

The question now comes up,--and we suppose it must be met, though we should like to evade it,--How,
amid the individualities that Shakespeare has created, are we to detect the individuality of
Shakespeare himself? In answer it may be said, that, if we survey his dramas in the mass, we
find three degrees of unity;--first, the unity of the individual characters; second, the unity
of the separate plays in which they appear; and third, the unity of Shakespeare's own nature,
a nature which deepened, expanded, and increased in might, but did not essentially change,
and which is felt as a potent presence throughout his works, binding them together as the product
of one mind. He did not go out of himself to inform other natures, but he included these natures
in himself; and though he does not infuse his individuality into his characters, he does infuse
it into the general conceptions which the characters illustrate. His opinions, purposes, theory
of life, are to be gathered, not from what his characters say and do, but from the results
of what they say and do; and in each play he so combines and disposes the events and persons
that the cumulative impression shall express his own judgment, indicate his own design, and
convey his own feeling. His individuality is so vast, so purified from eccentricity, and we
grasp it so imperfectly, that we are apt to deny it altogether, and conceive his mind as impersonal.
In view of the multiplicity of his creations, and the range of thought, emotion, and character
they include, it is a common hyperbole of criticism to designate him as universal. But, in
truth, his mind was restricted, in its creative action, like other minds, within the limits
of its personal sympathies, though these sympathies in him were keener, quicker, and more general
than in other men of genius. He was a great-hearted, broad-brained person, but still a person,
and not what Coleridge calls him, an "omnipresent creativeness." Whatever he could sympathize
with, he could embody and vitally represent; but his sympathies, though wide, were far from
being universal, and when he was indifferent or hostile, the dramatist was partially suspended
in the satirist and caricaturist, and oversight took the place of insight. Indeed, his limitations
are more easily indicated than his enlargements. We know what he has not done more surely than
we know what he has done; for if we attempt to follow his genius in any of the numerous lines
of direction along which it sweeps with such victorious ease, we soon come to the end of our
tether, and are confused with a throng of thoughts and imaginations, which, as Emerson exquisitely
says, "sweetly torment us with invitations to their own inaccessible homes." But there were
some directions which his genius did not take,--not so much from lack of mental power as from
lack of disposition or from positive antipathy. Let us consider some of these.

And first, Shakespeare's religious instincts and sentiments were comparatively weak, for they
were not creative. He has exercised his genius in the creation of no character in which religious
sentiment or religious passion is dominant. He could not, of course,--he, the poet of feudalism,--overlook
religion as an element of the social organization of Europe, but he did not seize Christian
ideas in their essence, or look at the human soul in its direct relations with God. And just
think of the field of humanity closed to him! For sixteen hundred years, remarkable men and
women had appeared, representing all classes of religious character, from the ecstasy of the
saint to the gloom of the fanatic; yet his intellectual curiosity was not enough excited to
explore and reproduce their experience. Do you say that the subject was foreign to the purpose
of an Elizabethan playwright? The answer is, that Decker and Massinger attempted it, for a
popular audience, in "The Virgin Martyr"; and though the tragedy of "The Virgin Martyr" is
a huddled mass of beauties and deformities, its materials of incident and characters, could
Shakespeare have been attracted to them, might have been organized into as great a drama as
Othello. Again, Marlowe, in his play of "Dr. Faustus," has imperfectly treated a subject which
in Shakespeare's hands would have been made into a tragedy sublimer than Lear could he have
thrown himself into it with equal earnestness. Marlowe, from the fact that he was a positive
atheist, and a brawling one, had evidently at some time directed his whole heart and imagination
to the consideration of religious questions, and had resolutely faced facts from which Shakespeare
turned away.

Shakespeare, also, in common with the other dramatists of the time, looked at the Puritans
as objects of satire, laughing at them instead of gazing into them. They were doubtless grotesque
enough in external appearance; but the poet of human nature should have penetrated through
the appearance to the substance, and recognized in them, not merely the possibility of Cromwell,
but of the ideal of character which Cromwell but imperfectly represented. You may say that
Shakespeare's nature was too sunny and genial to admit the Puritan. It was not too sunny or
genial to admit Richards, and Iagos, and Gonerils, and "secret, black, and midnight hags."

It may be doubted also if Shakespeare's affinities extended to those numerous classes of human
character that stand for the reforming and philanthropic sentiments of humanity. We doubt if
he was hopeful for the race. He was too profoundly impressed with its disturbing passions to
have faith in its continuous progress. Though immensely greater than Bacon, it may be questioned
if he could thoroughly have appreciated Bacon's intellectual character. He could have delineated
him to perfection in everything but in that peculiar philanthropy of the mind, that spiritual
benignity, that belief in man and confidence in his future, which both atone and account for
so many of Bacon's moral defects. There is no character in his plays that covers the elements
of such a man as Hildebrand or Luther, or either of the two Williams of Orange, or Hampden,
or Howard, or Clarkson, or scores of other representative men whom history celebrates. Though
the broadest individual nature which human nature has produced, human nature is immensely broader
than he.

It would be easy to quote passages from Shakespeare's works which would seem to indicate that
his genius was not limited in any of the directions which have been pointed out; but these
passages are thoughts and observations, not men and women. Hamlet's soliloquy, and Portia's
address to Shylock, might be adduced as proofs that he comprehended the religious element;
but then who would take Hamlet or Portia as representative of the religious character in any
of its numerous historical forms? There is a remark in one of his plays to this effect:--

    "It is an heretic that makes the fire,
    Not she which burns in't."

This might be taken as a beautiful expression of Christian toleration, and is certainly admirable
as a general thought; but it indicates Shakespeare's indifference to religious passions in
indicating his superiority to them. It would have been a much greater achievement of genius
to have passed into the mind and heart of the conscientious burner of heretics, seized the
essence of the bigot's character, and embodied in one great ideal individual a class of men
whom we now both execrate and misconceive. If he could follow the dramatic process of his genius
for Sir Toby Belch, why could he not do it for St. Dominic?

Indeed, toleration, in the sense that Shakespeare has given to the word, is not expressed in
maxims directed against intolerance, but in the exercise of charity towards intolerant men;
and it is thus necessary to indicate the limitations of his sympathy with his race, in order
to appreciate its real quality and extent. His unapproached greatness consists not in including
human nature, but in taking the point of view of those large classes of human nature he did
include. His sympathetic insight was both serious and humorous; and he thus equally escaped
the intolerance of taste and the intolerance of intelligence. What we would call the worst
criminals and the most stupid fools were, as mirrored in his mind, fairly dealt with; every
opportunity was afforded them to justify their right to exist; their words, thoughts, and acts
were viewed in relation to their circumstances and character, so that he made them inwardly
known, as well as outwardly perceived. The wonder of all this would be increased, if we supposed,
for the sake of illustration, that the persons and events of all Shakespeare's plays were historical,
and that, instead of being represented by Shakespeare, they were narrated by Macaulay. The
result would be that the impression received from the historian of every incident and every
person would be different, and would be wrong. The external facts might not be altered; but
the falsehood would proceed from the incapacity or indisposition of the historian to pierce
to the heart of the facts by sympathy and imagination. There would be abundant information,
abundant eloquence, abundant invective against crime, abundant scorn of stupidity and folly,
perhaps much sagacious reflection and judicial scrutiny of evidence; but the inward and essential
truth would be wanting. What external statement of the acts and probable motives of Macbeth
and Othello would convey the idea we have of them from being witnesses of the conflict of their
thoughts and passions? How wicked and shallow and feeble and foolish would Hamlet appear, if
represented, not in the light of Shakespeare's imagination, but in the light of Macaulay's
epigrams! How the historian would "play the dazzling fence" of his rhetoric on the indecision
of the prince, his brutality to Ophelia, his cowardice, his impotence between contending motives,
and the chaos of blunders and crimes in which he sinks from view!

If the historian would thus deal with the heroes, why, such "small deer" as Bardolph and Master
Slender would of course be puffed out of existence with one hiss of lordly contempt. Yet Macaulay
has a more vivid historical imagination, more power of placing himself in the age about which
he writes, than historians like Hume and Hallam, whose judgments of men are summaries of qualities,
and imply no inwardness of vision, no discerning of spirits. In the whole class, the point
of view is the historian's, and not the point of view of the persons the historian describes.
The curse which clings to celebrity is, that it commonly enters history only to be puffed or
lampooned.

The truth is, that most men, the intelligent and virtuous as well as the ignorant and vicious,
are intolerant of other individualities. They are uncharitable by defect of sympathy and defect
of insight. Society, even the best, is apt to be made up of people who are engaged in the agreeable
occupation of despising each other; for one association for mutual admiration there are twenty
for mutual contempt; yet while conversation is thus mostly made up of strictures on individuals,
it rarely evinces any just perception of individualities. James is indignant or jeering at
the absence of James in John, and John is horror-stricken at the impudence of James in refusing
to be John. Each person feels himself to be misunderstood, though he never questions his power
to understand his neighbor. Egotism, vanity, prejudice, pride of opinion, conceit of excellence,
a mean delight in recognizing inferiority in others, a meaner delight in refusing to recognize
the superiority of others, all the honest and all the base forms of self-assertion, cloud and
distort the vision when one mind directs its glance at another. For one person who is mentally
conscientious there are thousands who are morally honest. The result is a vast massacre of
character, which would move the observer's compassion were it not that the victims are also
the culprits, and that pity at the spectacle of the arrow quivering in the sufferer's breast
is checked by the sight of the bow bent in the sufferer's hands. This depreciation of others
is the most approved method of exalting ourselves. It educates us in self-esteem, if not in
knowledge. The savage conceives that the power of the enemy he kills is added to his own. Shakespeare
more justly conceived that the power of the human being with whom he sympathized was added
to his own.

This toleration, without which an internal knowledge of other natures is impossible, Shakespeare
possessed beyond any other man recorded in literature or history. It is a moral as well as
mental trait, and belongs to the highest class of virtues. It is a virtue which, if generally
exercised, would remove mutual hostility by enlightening mutual ignorance. And in Shakespeare
we have, for once, a man great enough to be modest and charitable; who has the giant's power,
but, instead of using it like a giant, trampling on weaker creatures, prefers to feel them
in his arms rather than feel them under his feet; and whose toleration of others is the exercise
of humility, veracity, beneficence, and justice, as well as the exercise of reason, imagination,
and humor. We shall never appreciate Shakespeare's genius until we recognize in him the exercise
of the most difficult virtues, as well as the exercise of the most wide-reaching intelligence.

It is, of course, not so wonderful that he should take the point of view of characters in themselves
beautiful and noble, though even these might appear very different under the glance of a less
soul-searching eye. To such aspects of life, however, all genius has a natural affinity. But
the marvel of his comprehensiveness is his mode of dealing with the vulgar, the vicious, and
the low,--with persons who are commonly spurned as dolts and knaves. His serene benevolence
did not pause at what are called "deserving objects of charity," but extended to the undeserving,
who are, in truth, the proper objects of charity. If we compare him, in this respect, with
poets like Dante and Milton, in whom elevation is the predominant characteristic, we shall
find that they tolerate humanity only in its exceptional examples of beauty and might. They
are aristocrats of intellect and conscience,--the noblest aristocracy, but also the haughtiest
and most exclusive. They can sympathize with great energies, whether celestial or diabolic,
but their attitude towards the feeble and the low is apt to be that of indifference, or contempt.
Milton can do justice to the Devil, though not, like Shakespeare, to "poor devils." But it
may be doubted if the wise and good have the right to cut the Providential bond which connects
them with the foolish and the bad, and set up an aristocratic humanity of their own, ten times
more supercilious than the aristocracy of blood. Divorce the loftiest qualities from humility
and geniality, and they quickly contract a pharisaic taint; and if there is anything which
makes the wretched more wretched, it is the insolent condescension of patronizing benevolence,--if
there is anything which makes the vicious more vicious, it is the "I-am-better-than-thou" expression
on the face of conscious virtue. Now Shakespeare had none of this pride of superiority, either
in its noble or ignoble form. Consider that, if his gigantic powers had been directed by antipathies
instead of sympathies, he would have left few classes of human character untouched by his terrible
scorn. Even if his antipathies had been those of taste and morals, he would have done so much
to make men hate and misunderstand each other,--so much to destroy the very sentiment of humanity,--that
he would have earned the distinction of being the greatest satirist and the worst man that
ever lived. But instead, how humanely he clings to the most unpromising forms of human nature,
insists on their right to speak for themselves as much as if they were passionate Romeos and
high-aspiring Buckinghams, and does for them what he might have desired should be done for
himself had he been Dogberry, or Bottom, or Abhorson, or Bardolph, or any of the rest! The
low characters, the clowns and vagabonds, of Ben Jonson's plays, excite only contempt or disgust.
Shakespeare takes the same materials as Ben, passes them through the medium of his imaginative
humor, and changes them into subjects of the most soul-enriching mirth. Their actual prototypes
would not be tolerated; but when his genius shines on them, they "lie in light" before our
humorous vision. It must be admitted that in his explorations of the lower levels of human
nature he sometimes touches the mud deposits; still he never hisses or jeers at the poor relations
through Adam he there discovers, but magnanimously gives them the wink of recognition!

This is one extreme of his genius, the poetic comprehension and embodiment of the low. What
was the other extreme? How high did he mount in the ideal region, and what class of his characters
represent his loftiest flight? It is commonly asserted that his supernatural beings, his ghosts,
spectres, witches, fairies, and the like, exhibiting his command of the dark side and the bright
side, the terror and the grace, of the supernatural world, indicate his rarest quality; for
in these, it is said, he went out of human nature itself, and created beings that never existed.
Wonderful as these are, we must recollect that in them he worked on a basis of popular superstitions,
on a mythology as definite as that of Greece and Rome, and though he re-created instead of
copying his materials, though he Shakespearianized them, he followed no different process of
his genius in delineating Hecate and Titania than in delineating Dame Quickly and Anne Page.
All his characters, from the rogue Autolycus to the heavenly Cordelia, are in a certain sense
ideal; but the question now relates to the rarity of the elements, and the height of the mood,
and not merely to the action of his mind; and we think that the characters technically called
supernatural which appear in his works are much nearer the earth than others which, though
they lack the name, have more of the spiritual quality of the thing. The highest supernatural
is to be found in the purest, highest, most beautiful souls.

Did it never strike you in reading "The Tempest," that Ariel is not so supernatural as Miranda?
We may be sure that Ferdinand so thought, in that rapture of wonder when her soul first shone
on him through her innocent eyes; and afterwards when he asks,

              "I do beseech you
    (Chiefly that I might set it in my prayers)
    What is your name?"

Shakespeare, indeed, in his transcendently beautiful embodiments of feminine excellence, the
most exquisite creations in literature, passed into a region of sentiment and thought, of ideals
and of ideas, altogether higher and more supernatural than that region in which he shaped his
delicate Ariels and his fairy Titanias. The question has been raised whether sex extends to
soul. However this may be decided, here is a soul, with its records in literature, who is at
once the manliest of men, and the most womanly of women; who can not only recognize the feminine
element in existing individuals, but discern the idea, the pattern, the radiant genius of womanhood
itself, as it hovers, unseen to other eyes, over the living representatives of the sex. Literature
boasts many eminent female poets and novelists; but not one has ever approached Shakespeare
in the purity, the sweetness, the refinement, the elevation, of his perceptions of feminine
character,--much less approached him in the power of embodying his perceptions in persons.
These characters are so thoroughly domesticated on the earth, that we are tempted to forget
the heaven of invention from which he brought them. The most beautiful of spirits, they are
the most tender of daughters, lovers, and wives. They are "airy shapes," but they "syllable
men's names." Rosalind, Juliet, Ophelia, Viola, Perdita, Miranda, Desdemona, Hermione, Portia,
Isabella, Imogen, Cordelia,--if their names do not call up their natures, the most elaborate
analysis of criticism wilt be of no avail. Do you say that these women are slightly idealized
portraits of actual women? Was Cordelia, for example, simply a good, affectionate daughter
of a foolish old king? To Shakespeare, himself, she evidently partook of divineness; and he
hints of the still ecstasy of contemplation in which her nature first rose upon his imagination,
when, speaking through the lips of a witness of her tears, he hallows them as they fall:--

    "She shook the holy water from her heavenly eyes."

And these Shakespearian women, though all radiations from one great ideal of womanhood, are
at the same time intensely individualized. Each has a separate soul, and the processes of intellect
as well as emotion are different in each. Each, for example, is endowed with the faculty, and
is steeped in the atmosphere, of imagination; but who could mistake the imagination of Ophelia
for the imagination of Imogen?--the loitering, lingering movement of the one, softly consecrating
whatever it touches, for the irradiating, smiting efficiency, the flash and the bolt, of the
other? Imogen is perhaps the most completely expressed of Shakespeare's women; for in her every
faculty and affection is fused with imagination, and the most exquisite tenderness is combined
with vigor and velocity of nature. Her mind darts in an instant to the ultimate of everything.
After she has parted with her husband, she does not merely say that she will pray for him.
Her affection is winged, and in a moment she is enskied. She does not look up, she goes up;
she would have charged him, she says,

    "At the sixth hour of morn, at noon, at midnight,
    T'encounter me with orisons, for then
    I am in heaven for him."

When she hears of her husband's inconstancy, the possible object of his sensual whim is at
once consumed in the fire that leaps from her impassioned lips,--

                  "Some jay of Italy,
    Whose mother is her painting, hath betrayed him."

Mr. Collier, ludicrously misconceiving the instinctive action of Imogen's mind, thinks the
true reading is, "smothers her with painting." Now Imogen's wrath first reduces the light woman
to the most contemptible of birds and the most infamous of symbols, the jay, and then, not
willing to leave her any substance at all, annihilates her very being with the swift thought
that the paint on her cheeks is her mother,--that she is nothing but the mere creation of painting,
a phantom born of a color, without real body or soul. It would be easy to show that the mental
processes of all Shakespeare's women are as individual as their dispositions.

And now think of the amplitude of this man's soul! Within the immense space which stretches
between Dogberry or Launcelot Gobbo and Imogen or Cordelia, lies the Shakespearian world. No
other man ever exhibited such philosophic comprehensiveness, but philosophic comprehensiveness
is often displayed apart from creative comprehensiveness, and along the whole vast line of
facts, laws, analogies, and relations that Shakespeare's intellect extended, his perceptions
were vital, his insight was creative, his thoughts flowed in forms. And now was he proud of
his transcendent superiorities? Did he think that he had exhausted all that can appear before
the sight of the eye and the sight of the soul? No. The immeasurable opulence of the undiscovered
and undiscerned regions of existence was never felt with more reverent humility than by this
discoverer, who had seen in rapturous vision so many new worlds open on his view. In the play
which perhaps best indicates the ecstatic action of his mind, and which is alive in every part
with that fiery sense of unlimited power which the mood of ecstasy gives,--in the play of "Antony
and Cleopatra," he has put into the mouth of the Soothsayer what seems to have been his own
modest judgment of the extent of his glance into the universe of matter and mind:--

    "In Nature's infinite book of secrecy
      A little I can read!"

LONGFELLOW'S TRANSLATION OF DANTE'S DIVINA COMMEDIA.

In the North American Review for March, 1809, we read of Cary's Dante: "This we can pronounce,
with confidence, to be the most literal translation in poetry in our language."

"As to Cary," writes Prescott in 1824, "I think Dante would have given him a place in his ninth
heaven, if he could have foreseen his translation. It is most astonishing, giving not only
the literal corresponding phrase, but the spirit of the original, the true Dantesque manner.
It should be cited as an evidence of the compactness, the pliability, the sweetness of the
English tongue."

If we turn to English scholars, we shall find them holding the same language, and equally ready
to assure you that you may confidently accept Cary's version as a faithful transcript of the
spirit and letter of the original. And this was the theory of translation throughout almost
the first half of the present century. Cary's position in 1839 was higher even than it was
in 1824. With many other claims to respect, he was still best known as the translator of Dante.

In 1839 Mr. Longfellow published five passages from the Purgatorio, translated with a rigorous
adhesion to the words and idioms of the original. Coming out in connection with translations
from the Spanish and German, and with original pieces which immediately took their place among
the favorite poems of every household, they could not be expected to attract general attention.
But scholars read them with avidity, for they found in them the first successful solution of
one of the great problems of literature,--Can poetry pass from one language into another without
losing its distinctive characteristics of form and expression? Dryden, Pope, Cowper, Sotheby,
had answered no for Greek and Latin, Coleridge for German, Fairfax and Rose and Cary for Italian.
But if Mr. Longfellow could translate the whole of the Divina Commedia as he had translated
these five passages, great as some of these names were, it was evident that the lovers of poetry
would call for new translations of all the great poets. This he has now done. The whole poem
is before us, with its fourteen thousand two hundred and seventy-eight lines, the English answering
line for line and word for word to the original Italian. We purpose to show, by a careful comparison
of test-passages with corresponding passages of Cary, what the American poet has done for the
true theory of translation.

It is evident that, while both translators have nominally the same object in view, they follow
different paths in their endeavors to reach it; or, in other words, that they come to their
task with very different theories of translation, and very different ideas of the true meaning
of faithful rendering. Translation, according to Mr. Cary, consists in rendering the author's
idea without a strict adherence to the author's words. According to Mr. Longfellow, the author's
words form a necessary accompaniment of his idea, and must, wherever the idioms of the two
languages admit of it, be rendered by their exact equivalents. The following passage, from
the twenty-eighth canto of the Purgatorio, will illustrate our meaning:--

    "In questa altezza che tutta è disciolta
        Nell'aer vivo, tal moto percuote,
        E fa sonar la selva perch' è folta."

Literally,

    In this height which is all detached
       In the living air, such motion strikes,
       And makes the wood resound because it is thick.

Such are the words of Dante line by line.

The fundamental idea of this passage is the explanation of the sound of the forest, and this
idea Cary has preserved. But has he preserved it in its force and simplicity and Dantesque
directness? We will not dwell upon the rendering of altezza by summit, although a little more
care would have preserved the exact word of the original. But we may with good reason object
to the expansion of Dante's three lines into four. We may with equal reason object to

                    "which on every side
    To visitation of the impassive air
    Is open,"

as a correct rendering of

                     "che tutta è disciolta
    Nell'aer vivo,"--

                     which is all detached
    In the living air.

      "To visitation of the impassive air,"

is a sonorous verse; but it is not Dante's verse, unless all detached means on every side is
open to visitation, and impassive air means living air. Beneath its sway, also, is not Dante's;
nor can we accept umbrageous wood, with its unmeaning epithet, for the wood because it is thick,
an explanation of the phenomenon which had excited Dante's wonder.

Here, then, we have Cary's theory, the preservation of the fundamental idea, but the free introduction
of such accessory ideas as convenience may suggest, whether in the form of epithet or of paraphrase.

We have here the three lines of the original, and in the order of the original; we have the
exact words of the original, disciolta meaning disengaged as well as detached, and therefore
the ideas of the original without modification or change. The passage is not a remarkable one
in form, although a very important one in the description of which it forms a part. The sonorous
second line of Mr. Cary's version is singularly false to the movement, as well as to the thought,
of the original. Mr. Longfellow's lines have the metric character of Dante's precise and direct
description.

The next triplet brings out the difference between the two theories even more distinctly:--

    "E la percossa pianta tanto puote
      Che della sua virtute l'aura impregna,
      E quella poi girando intorno scuote."

    And the stricken plant has so much power
      That with its virtue it impregnates the air,
      And that then revolving shakes around.

Thus far Dante.

Thus far Cary.

Cary's first line is a tolerably near approach to the original, although a distinction might
be made between the force of power resides in, and power possessed by. The second line falls
short of the conciseness of the original by transposing the object of impregnates into the
third. This, however, though a blemish, might also be passed over. But what shall we say to
the expansion of aura into a full line, and that line so Elizabethan and un-Dantesque as

    "The voyaging breeze upon whose subtle plume"?

In this, too, Mr. Cary is faithful to his theory.

We have seen how Cary's theory permits the insertion of a new line, or, more correctly speaking,
the expansion of a single word into a full line. But it admits also of the opposite extreme,--the
suppression of an entire line.

    "Ch'io vidi, e anche udi'parlar lo rostro,
      E sonar nella voce ed io e mio,
      Quand'era nel concetto noi e nostro."

    For I saw and also heard speak the beak,
      And sound in its voice and I and my,
      When it was in the conception we and our.

                               Paradiso, XIX. 10.

There is doubtless something quaint and peculiar in these lines, but it is the quaintness and
peculiarity of Dante. The I and my, the we and our, are traits of that direct and positive
mode of expression which is one of the distinctive characteristics of his style. Do we find
it in Cary?

                      "For I beheld and heard
    The beak discourse; and what intention formed
    Of many, singly as of one express."

Do we not find it in Longfellow?

    "For speak I saw, and likewise heard, the beak,
      And utter with its voice both I and My,
      When in conception it was We and Our."

It is not surprising that the two translators, starting with theories essentially so different,
should have produced such different results. Which of these results is most in harmony with
the legitimate object of translation can hardly admit of a doubt. For the object of translation
is to convey an accurate idea of the original, or, in other words, to render the words and
idioms of the language from which the translation is made by their exact equivalents in the
language into which it is made. The translator is bound by the words of the original. He is
bound, so far as the difference between languages admits of it, by the idioms of the original.
And as the effect of words and idioms depends in a great measure upon the skill with which
they are arranged, he is bound also by the rhythm of the original. If you would copy Raphael,
you must not give him the coloring of Titian. The calm dignity of the "School of Athens" conveys
a very imperfect idea of the sublime energy of the sibyls and prophets of the Sistine Chapel.

But can this exactitude be achieved without forcing language into such uncongenial forms as
to produce an artificial effect, painfully reminding you, at every step, of the labor it cost?
And here we come to the question of fact; for if Mr. Longfellow has succeeded, the answer is
evident. We purpose, therefore, to take a few test-passages, and, placing the two translations
side by side with the original, give our readers an opportunity of making the comparison for
themselves.

First, however, let us remind the reader that, if it were possible to convey an accurate idea
of Dante's style by a single word, that word would be power. Whatever he undertakes to say,
he says in the form best suited to convey his thought to the reader's mind as it existed in
his own mind. If it be a metaphysical idea, he finds words for it which give it the distinctness
and reality of a physical substance. If it be a landscape, he brings it before you, either
in outline or in detail, either by form or by color, as the occasion requires, but always with
equal force. That landscape of his ideal world ever after takes its place in your memory by
the side of the landscapes of your real world. Even the sounds which he has described linger
in the ear as the types of harshness, or loudness, or sweetness, instantly coming back to you
whenever you listen to the roaring of the sea, or the howling of the wind, or the carol of
birds. He calls things by their names, never shrinking from a homely phrase where the occasion
demands it, nor substituting circumlocution for direct expression. Words with him seem to be
things, real and tangible; not hovering like shadows over an idea, but standing out in the
clear light, bold and firm, as the distinct representatives of an idea. In his verse every
word has its appropriate place, and something to do in that place which no other word could
do there. Change it, and you feel at once that something has been lost.

Next to power, infinite variety is the characteristic of Dante's style, as it is of his invention.
With a stronger individuality than any poet of any age or country, there is not a trace of
mannerism in all his poem. The stern, the tender, the grand, simple exposition, fierce satire,
and passionate appeal have each their appropriate words and their appropriate cadence. This
Cary did not perceive, and has told the stories of Francesca and of Ugolino with the same Miltonian
modulation. Longfellow, by keeping his original constantly before him, has both seen and reproduced
it.

We begin our quotations with the celebrated inscription over the gate of
hell, and the entrance of the two poets into "the secret things." The
reader will remember that the last three triplets contain a remarkable
example of the correspondence of sound with sense.
    Dinanzi a me non fur cose create
        Se non eterne, ed io eterno duro:
        Lasciate ogni speranza voi che'ntrate.
    Queste parole di colore oscuro
        Vid'io scritte al sommo d'una porta;
        Perch'io: maestro, il senso lor m'è duro.
    Ed egli a me, come persona accorta:
        Qui si convien lasciare ogni sospetto,
        Ogni viltà convien che qui sia morta.
    Noi sem venuti al luogo ov'io t'ho detto
        Che vederai le genti dolorose
        Ch' hanno perduto il ben dello'ntelletto.
    E poichè la sua mano alla mia pose
        Con lieto volto, ond'io mi confortai,
        Mi mise dentro alle secrete cose.

                        Inferno, III. 1-30.
    Whereat I thus: 'Master, these words import
    Hard meaning.' He as one prepared replied:
    'Here thou must all distrust behind thee leave;
    Here be vile fear extinguished. We are come
    Where I have told thee we shall see the souls
    To misery doomed, who intellectual good
    Have lost.' And when his hand he had stretched forth
    To mine, with pleasant looks, whence I was cheered.
    Into that secret place he led me on.

                        Cary.

The following, though less remarkable for its poetry than many others which we might select,
is very difficult for the translator. We cite it as an illustration of the boldness with which
Mr. Longfellow meets difficulties.

    "E quale è quei che suo dannaggio sogna,
        Che sognando disidera sognare,
        Si che quel ch'è, come non fosse, agogna;
    Tal mi fec'io non potendo parlare:
        Che disiava scusarmi e scusava
        Me tuttavia e not mi credea fare
    Maggior difetto men vergogna lava,
        Disse'l maestro, che'l tuo non è stato:
        Però d'ogni tristizia ti disgrava;
    E fa ragion ch'io ti sempre allato,
        Se più avvien che fortuna t'accoglia
        Dove sien genti in simigliante piato:
    Che voler ciò udire è bassa voglia."

                        Inferno, XXX. 136-148.

                        Longfellow.

                        Cary.

The following passage from the Purgatorio is not only strikingly difficult, but strikingly
beautiful.

        "Ed un di lor, non questi che parlava,
        Si torse sotto'l peso che lo 'mpaccia,
    E videmi e conobbemi, e chiamava
        Tenendo gli occhi con fatica fisi
        A me che tutto chin con loro andava.
    Ben non sare'io stato sì cortese
        Mentre ch'io vissi, per lo gran disio
        Dell'eccellenza ove mio core intese.
    Di tal superbia qui si paga il fio:
        Ed ancor non sarei qui, se non fosse
        Che, possendo peccar, mi volsi a Dio.
    Non è il mondan romore altro ch' un fiato
        Di vento ch' or vien quinci ed or vien quindi,
        E muta nome perchè muta lato.
    Che fama avrai tu più se vecchia scindi
        Da te la carne, che se fossi morto
        Innanzi che lasciassi il pappo e'l dindi,
    Pria che passin mill'anni? ch'è più corto
        Spazio all' eterno ch'un muover di ciglia
        Al cerchio che più tardi in cielo è torto.
    Colui che del cammin sì poco piglia
        Diranzi a te, Toscana sonò tutta,
        Ed ora appena in Siena sen pispiglia,
    Ond'era sire, quando fu distrutta
        La rabbia Fiorentina, che superba
        Fu a quel tempo sì com'ora è putta.
    La vostra nominanza è color d'erba
        Che viene e va, e quei la discolora
        Per cui ell'esce della terra acerba."

                        Purgatorio, XI. 74-117.

                        Longfellow.

      "Listening I bent my visage down: and one
    (Not he who spake) twisted beneath the weight
    That urged him, saw me, knew me straight, and called;
    Holding his eyes with difficulty fixed
    Intent upon me, stooping as I went
    Companion of their way.
    His all the honor now; my light obscured.
    O powers of man! how vain your glory, nipped
    E'en in its height of verdure, if an age
    Less bright succeed not.

For much the same reason as that already stated, we give the following beautiful passage, a
touching story in itself, but how deeply touching in the energetic directness and simplicity
of Dante's verse!

    "Io mossi i piè del luogo dov'io stava
        Per avvisar da presso un'altra storia
        Che diretro a Micol mi biancheggiava.
    Quivi era storiata l'alta gloria
        Del roman prence lo cui gran valore
        Mosse Gregorio alla sua gran vittoria:
    I' dico di Trajano imperadore;
        Ed una vedovella gli era al freno
        Di lagrime atteggiata e di dolore.
    Dintorno a lui parea calcato e pieno
        Di cavalieri, e l'aguglie nell'oro
        Sovr' essi in vista al vento si movieno.
    La miserella intra tutti costoro
        Parea dicer: signor, fammi vendetta
        Del mio figliuol ch'è morto, ond'io m'accoro;
    Ed egli a lei rispondere: ora aspetta
        Tanto ch'io torni; e quella: signor mio
        (Come persona in cui dolor s'affretta)
    Se tu non torni? ed ei: chi fia dov'io,
        La ti farà; ed ella: l'altrui bene
        A te che fia, se'l tuo metti in oblio?
    Ond'elli: or ti conforta, che conviene
        Ch'io solva il mio dovere anzi ch'io muova:
        Giustizia vuole e pietà mi ritiene.
    Colui che mai non vide cosa nuova
        Produsse esto visibile parlare,
        Novello a noi perchè qui non si truova."

                        Purgatorio, X. 70-96.

                        Longfellow.

                  "To behold the tablet next,
    Which, at the back of Michol, whitely shone,
    I moved me.

How different is the character of the following description, which fills the ear with its grand
and varied harmony, as it fills the mind with a rapid succession of pictures!

    "Io m'era mosso e seguia volentieri
        Del mio maestro i passi, ed amendue
        Già mostravam com'eravam leggieri,
    Quando mi disse: Volgi gli occhi in giue;
        Buon ti sarà per alleggiar la via
        Veder lo letto delle piante tue.
    Come, perchè di lor memoria fia,
        Sovr'a'sepolti le tombe terragne
        Portan segnato quel ch'elli eran pria;
    Onde li molte volte si ripiagne
        Per la puntura della rimembranza
        Che solo a'pii dà delle calcagne:
    Si vid'io li, ma di miglior sembianza,
        Secondo l'artificio, figurato
        Quanto per via di fuor del monte avanza.
    Vedea colui che fu nobil creato
        Più d'altra creatura giù dal cielo
        Folgoreggiando scendere da un lato.
    Vedeva Briareo fitto dal teio
        Celestial giacer dall'altra parte,
        Grave alia terra per lo mortal gelo
    Vedea Timbreo, vedea Pallade e Marte
        Armati ancora intorno al padre loro
        Mirar le membra de'giganti sparte.
    Vedea Nembrotto appiè del gran lavoro
        Quasi smarrito riguardar le genti
        Che'n Sennaar con lui insieme foro.
    O Niobe, con che occhi dolenti
        Vedev'io te segnata in su la strada
        Tra sette e sette tuoi figliuoli spenti!
    O Saul, come'n su la propria spada
        Quivi parevi morto in Gelboè
        Che poi non sentì pioggia nè rugiada!
    O folle Aragne, si vedea io te
        Già mezza ragna, trista in su gli stracci
        Dell opera che mal per te si fe'.
    O Roboam, già non par che minnacci
        Quivi il tuo segno, ma pien di spavento
        Nel porta un carro prima ch' altri'l cacci.
    Mostrava ancora il duro pavimento
        Come Almeone a sua madre fe'caro
        Parer lo sventurato adornamento.
    Mostrava come i figli si gittaro
        Sovra Sennacherib dentro dal tempio,
        E come morto lui quivi lasciaro.
    Mostrava la ruina e'l crudo scempio
        Che fe'Tamiri quando disse a Ciro
        Sangue sitisti, ed io di sangue t'empio.
    Mostrava come in rotta si fuggiro
        Gli Assiri poi che fu morto Oloferne,
        Ed anche le reliquie del martiro.
    Vedeva Troja in cenere e in caverne:
        O Ilion, come te basso e vile
        Mostrava il segno che lì si discerne!

                        Purgatorio, XII.

                        Longfellow.
      O Rehoboam! here thy shape doth seem
    Lowering no more defiance; but fear-smote,
    With none to chase him, in his chariot whirled. Oh! how fallen,
    How abject, Ilion, was thy semblance there!

The following is distinguished from all that we have cited thus far by softness and delicacy
of touch.

    "Vago già di cercar dentro e d'intorno
        La divina foresta spessa e viva
        Ch'agli occhi temperava il nuovo giorno,
    Senza più aspettar lasciai la riva
        Prendendo la campagna lento lento
        Su per lo suol che d'ogni parte oliva.
    Gia m'avean trasportato i lenti passi
        Dentro all'antica selva tanto, ch'io
        Non potea rivedere ond'io m'entrassi;
    Ed ecco il più andar mi tolse un rio
        Che'nver sinistra con sue picciol'onde
        Piegava l'erba che'n sua ripa uscio.
    Co' piè ristetti e con gli occhi passai
        Di là dal fiumicel per ammirare
        La gran variazion de'freschi mai;
    E là m'apparve, si com'egli appare
        Subitamente cosa che disvia
        Per maraviglia tutt'altro pensare,
    Una donna soletta che si gia
        Cantando ed iscegliendo fior da fiore
        Ond' era pinta tutta la sua via."

                        Purgatorio, XXVIII. 1-42.

                        Longfellow.

We give a characteristic passage from the Paradiso.
    A così riposato, a così bello
        Viver di cittadini, a così fida
        Cittadinanza, a così dolce ostello,
    Maria mi diè, chiamata in alte grida;
        E nell'antico vostro Batisteo
        Insieme fui Cristiano e Cacciaguida."

                        Paradiso, XV. 97-135.

It would be easy to extend our quotations; but we have given enough of Mr. Longfellow's translation
to show with what conceptions of duty to the original he came to his task, and how perfectly
that duty has been performed. According to his theory, then, as we gather it from these volumes,
translation is not paraphrase, is not interpretation, is not imitation, but is the rigorous
rendering of word for word, so far as the original difference of idioms permits. Its basis
is truth to the form as well as to the thought, to the letter as well as to the spirit, of
the text. The translator is like the messengers of the Bible and Homer, who repeat word for
word the message that has been confided to them. He, too, if he would be true to his office,
must give the message as it has been given to him, repeat the story in the words in which it
was told him. Every deviation from the letter of the original is a deviation from the truth.
Every epithet that is either added or taken away is a falsification of the text. The addition
or the omission may sometimes be an improvement, but it is an improvement which you have no
authority to make. It is not to learn what you think Homer or Dante might have said that the
reader comes to your translation, but to see what they really said. When Cesarotti undertook
to show how Homer would have written in the eighteenth century, he recast the Iliad and called
it "The Death of Hector," and in this he dealt more honestly with his readers than Pope; for,
although he failed to make a good poem, he did not attempt to pass it for Homer.

The greatest difficulty of the translator arises from his personality. He cannot forget himself,
cannot guard, as he ought, against those subtle insinuations of self-esteem which are constantly
leading him to improve upon his author. His own habits of thought would have suggested a different
turn to the verse, a different coloring to the image. He finds it as hard to forget his own
style, as to forget his identity. It demands a vigorous imagination, combined with deep poetic
sympathies, to go out of yourself and enter for a time wholly into the heart and mind, the
thoughts and feelings, of another; and it is not to all that such an imagination and such sympathies
are given. There is scarcely a great failure in poetical translation, which may not be traced
to the want of this power.

It may seem like the grave enunciation of a truism to say that another indispensable qualification
of the translator is perfect familiarity with the language from which he translates, and a
full command of his own. It is not by mere reading that such a familiarity can be acquired.
You must have learnt to think in a language, and made it the spontaneous expression of your
wants and feelings, if you would find in it the true interpretation of the wants and feelings
of others. Its words and idioms must awaken in you the same sensations which the words and
idioms of your own language awaken; giving pleasure as music, or a picture, or a statue, or
a fine building gives pleasure, not by an act of reflection under the control of the will,
but by an intuitive perception under the inspiration of a sense of the beautiful. The enjoyment
of a thought is partly an intellectual enjoyment; you may even reason yourself into it; but
the enjoyment of style and language is purely an æsthetic enjoyment, susceptible, indeed, of
culture, but springing from an inborn sense of harmony. To extend this enjoyment to a foreign
language, you must bring that language close to you, and form with it those intimate relations
between thought and word which you have formed in your own. The word must not only suggest
the thought, but become a part of it, as the painting becomes a part of the canvas. It must
strike your ear with a familiar sound, awakening pleasant memories of actual life and real
scenes. Idioms are often interpreters of national life, giving you sudden glimpses, and even
deep revelations, of manners and customs, and the circumstances whence they sprang. They are
often, too, brief formulas, condensing thought into its briefest expression, with a force and
energy which the full expression could not give. To mistake them, is to mistake the whole passage.
Not to feel them, is not to feel the most characteristic form of thought.

The preposition da is one of the most versatile words in Italian. Its literal meaning is from;
it is daily used to express to. Da me may mean from me: it may also mean to me. Fit or deserving
to be done is a common meaning of it; and it is in this sense that Dante uses it in the following
passage from the fourth canto of Paradiso, fifty-fifth line:--

        "Con intenzion da non esser derisa,"--
    With intention not (deserving to be) to be derided.

Cary, though a good Italian scholar, translates it to shun derision; and, giving it this sense,
quotes Stillingfleet to illustrate the thought which, for want of practical familiarity with
the language, he attributes to Dante.

We believe, then, that the qualifications of a translator may be briefly summed up under the
following heads:--

He must be conscientiously truthful, studiously following his text, word by word and line by line.

He must possess a thorough mastery over both languages, feeling as well as understanding the
words and idioms of his original.

He must possess the power of forgetting himself in his author.

And, lastly, he must be not merely a skilful artificer of verses, or a man of poetic sensibility,
but a poet in the highest and truest sense of the word.

We would gladly enlarge upon this interesting subject, which not only explains the shortcomings
of the past, but opens enticing vistas into the future. We cannot doubt that Mr. Longfellow's
example will be followed, and that from time to time other great poets will arise, who; not
content with enriching literature with original productions, will acknowledge it as a part
of what they owe the world, to do for Homer and Virgil and Æschylus and Sophocles what he has
done for Dante. It is pleasant to think that our children will sit at the feet of these great
masters, and, listening to them in English worthy of the tongues in which they first spake,
be led to enter more fully into the spirit of the abundant Greek and the majestic Latin. It
is cheering to the lovers of sound study to feel that every faithful version of a great poet
extends the influence of his works, and awakens a stronger desire for the original. We never
yet looked upon an engraving of Morghen without a new longing for the painting which it translated.

We have not left ourselves room for what we had intended to say about the notes, which form
half of each of these three volumes. Those who know what conscientious zeal Mr. Longfellow
brings to all his duties need not be told that they bear abundant testimony to his learning,
industry, and good taste. They not only leave nothing to be asked for in the explanation of
real difficulties, but, as answers to a wide range of philosophical, biographical, and historical
questions, form in themselves a delightful miscellany. Dante has been overladen by commentators.
In Mr. Longfellow he has found an interpreter.

It is not to Mr. Longfellow's reputation only that these volumes will add, but to that of American
literature. It is no little thing to be able to say, that, in a field in which some of England's
great poets have signally failed, an American poet has signally succeeded; that what the scholars
of the Old World asserted to be impossible, a scholar of the New World has accomplished; and
that the first to tread in this new path has impressed his footprints so deeply therein, that,
however numerous his followers may be, they will all unite in hailing him, with Dante's own
words,--

        "Tu Duca, tu Signore e tu Maestro,"--
    Thou Leader and thou Lord and Master thou.

THE OLD STORY.

    The waiting-women wait at her feet,
      And the day is fading down to the night,
    And close at her pillow, and round and sweet,
      The red rose burns like a lamp a-light.
    Under and over, the gray mist lops,
      And down and down from the mossy eaves,
      And down from the sycamore's long wild leaves,
    The slow rain drops and drops and drops.

    Ah! never had sleeper a sleep so fair;
      And the waiting-women that weep around
    Have taken the combs from her golden hair,
      And it slideth over her face to the ground.
    They have hidden the light from her lovely eyes;
      And down from the eaves where the mosses grow
      The rain is dripping, so slow, so slow,
    And the night-wind cries and cries and cries.

    From her hand they have taken the shining ring,
      They have brought the linen her shroud to make;
    O, the lark she was never so loath to sing,
      And the morn she was never so loath to awake!
    And at their sewing they hear the rain,--
      Drip-drop, drip-drop, over the eaves,
      And drip-drop over the sycamore-leaves,
    As if there would never be sunshine again.

    The mourning train to the grave have gone,
      And the waiting-women are here and are there,
    With birds at the windows and gleams of the sun
      Making the chamber of death to be fair.
    And under and over the mist unlaps,
      And ruby and amethyst burn through the gray,
      And driest bushes grow green with spray,
    And the dimpled water its glad hands claps.

    The leaves of the sycamore dance and wave,
      And the mourners put off the mourning shows,
    And over the pathway down to the grave
      The long grass blows and blows and blows.
    And every drip-drop rounds to a flower,
      And love in the heart of the young man springs,
      And the hands of the maidens shine with rings,
    As if all life were a festival hour.

A WEEK'S RIDING.

"My dear grandfather, why did Mr. Erle start so this evening when he saw my picture?" I said.

He laughed softly as he answered: "He will tell you himself to-morrow, if you care to ask him.
It is no secret, but you will like the story best as he tells it. A very pretty story,--a very
pretty story," he went on, as he kissed me good-night, "and one my little girl will relish
as much as a novel."

My grandfather was such a fine, white-haired old gentleman, and looked so handsome in his handsome
house! It was one of the old, square houses which are fading from the land in country as well
as in town, ample and generous in every way, with broad, carved stairways, and great, wide
hearths for andirons,--a house to make the heart glad, and incline it to all sweet hospitalities.
The warm, low rooms were full of furniture, softened and made comfortable by unsparing use;
the walls were hung with good paintings and engravings, some of them real masterpieces. But
the glory of the house was its bronzes, gathered by three generations of rarely cultured men,
from my great-great-grandfather, whose rougher purchases were put in more hidden corners every
year, to the grandson now in possession, whose pure taste chose the latest gems of French art,
and placed them where our eyes might best enjoy their beauty. The library was crimson, and
the dining-room beyond two exquisite shades of brown and gold, a curtained doorway between.
In these two rooms I spent most of my time when I was with my grandfather, reading with him,
and singing to him, and listening to his cynical, witty talk. At dusk we gathered round the
fire, he and I and the two tawny setters, three of us on the rug, and he in his long, low chair,
and talked of the old family, whose sons were all dead, and of the gay years when we had been
in our glory. I thought we were very well off in worldly possessions as it was, but my dear
old hero put such content to speedy flight with his tales of the days that were gone, when,
to put implicit trust in him, a regal hospitality had filled the house with great and distinguished
guests, glad to be with the family which always had a son leading the right in state and in
church, in army and in navy.

I listened with glowing heart, and looked proudly at our men as I walked by their portraits
in the halls on my way to bed. Perhaps my faith in their great deeds is not so childlike now;
but it was pure and unlimited then, and those library stories can never fade from my memory.

I had been with my grandfather a week when the conversation with which my tale opens occurred,
and I was to return to my parents in three days, under the protection of the very gentleman
who was the subject of it. The two old friends were very intimate, and Mr. Erle spent every
evening at the house; so I knew him well, and had no fear in asking him any question I chose,
and I looked forward to the next evening as to a grand festival.

When we came in from dinner, I drew the window-shade, and saw that it was snowing fiercely.

"Perhaps he will not come," I said, turning to my grandfather disconsolately.

"Never fear that," he answered. "Mr. Erle is a man who is not kept at home by the weather,
or anything else."

I came to the hearth. The last words had been added in the dry tone which always meant something,
coming from his lips.

"Has Mr. Erle children?" I asked.

"Yes; the youngest boy is only sixteen."

"And he never spends an evening at home?"

"I've not known him to do so for twenty years. Sing the 'Health to King Charles,' dear."

I sat down at the piano, and sang as I was bid.

We were stanch loyalists from tradition, and my list of Stuart songs was so long that I had
sung scarcely half of it when the clock struck nine, and rapid wheels came over the pavements.
Opposite our door the horse slipped, and we heard the instantaneous lash singing in the night
air and descending unmercifully on the poor animal. An immense stamping and rearing ensued.
"That is Erle, sure enough," my grandfather said, going to the window. I followed him, and
lifted the shade in time to see Mr. Erle standing in the trampled snow at the horse's head,
patting him as gently as a woman could have done. In a moment he nodded to his servant, and
watched him drive round the corner before turning to our door.

He came in quickly, exquisitely dressed, and courteous, with the beautiful old manner they
cannot teach us now. After the first words, my grandfather said, with a superb affectation
of seriousness, "The merciful man is merciful to his beast."

Mr. Erle looked up, with a bright laugh. "So you heard our little dispute? The old fellow bears
me no malice, you may be sure; he knows that I never sulk."

"Perhaps he would like it a little better if you did," I said.

"Not at all. He respects me for my quick ways with him."

I shook my head doubtingly, and then, as if in defence of his theory, he said: "Did I ever
tell you of Lillie Burton? Her animals did not mind a little discipline."

My grandfather laughed. "Oddly enough, we had laid a plot to make you tell that charming history
this very evening," he said.

"Don't laugh about it," Mr. Erle answered. "I cannot tell you how vividly the sight of Miss
Thesta's picture brought back the old time to me."

"I beg your pardon," the other said, bowing.

At that moment a servant came in with wine, placing the Japanese waiter with the old gilded
bottle and glasses at my grandfather's elbow on the table. He poured out three glasses, and
said, very simply: "We will have our own old way to-night, Erle, while you tell your old story,
and drink as our fathers did, not vile alcohols, but the good fruit of the vine. Remember,
Thesta, I leave you all my wine, on condition that you drink it, and never let a drop of whiskey
come into your house."

"I promise," I said, and sat down at his feet.

"Perhaps you have heard of Lillie Burton?" Mr. Erle began.

I had a confused idea that the name of his wife was Lillie; but it was so confused that I answered,
frankly, "No, I never heard of her at all."

"She is not Lillie Burton now," he went on with a sigh; "but I must begin at the beginning.
It is a real horse story, which will tell in its favor with you, I am sure."

"Yes, indeed," I answered, with enthusiasm, and then he began anew.

"I was a gay, happy man of twenty-four, living in London with my dear friend, now dead, Richard
Satterlee. We imagined ourselves very tired of town gayeties, and were languidly looking round
for some country-place where we could be alone and quiet for a week or so, when the little
incident occurred which led to my acquaintance with Lillie Burton. I must tell you that Satterlee
and I were used up in more ways than one,--we had been unfortunate at the races that year,
and so were well out of pocket, and I had not escaped heart-free from the season's balls, as
Dick had, who, bless his honest soul, was as unmoved as a rock among the fairest women of the
land. Not that they were indifferent to him, though. His broad shoulders and downcast eyes
made sad havoc among them, Miss Thesta,--so beware of those attractions among the men you meet:
there are none more deadly. Well, they loved Dick, and I loved Miss Ferrers. She was not very
handsome, but more fascinating to me than any other woman, and as thorough a flirt as ever
made a man miserable. Never mind the how and why, but, believe me, I was very hard hit indeed,
and sincerely thought myself the most wretched man in all London when I heard that she had
gone to Spain with her brother-in-law, Lord West, and his wife. She had treated me shamefully;
but I loved her all the more for it, and was quite desperate, in short. You may not think it
of me, but I could neither sleep nor eat. In this state of mind I was walking home one afternoon,
determined to tell Satterlee that I should leave him, and go back to my people in America,
when I saw a small crowd ahead, and heard them cheer before they broke up and walked away.
I should have passed by without a second glance, had I not been struck by the appearance of
one of the three men who remained on the spot,--a strong-limbed fellow of thirty, evidently
of purest Saxon blood. His whole face was handsome, but his hair was simply superb, and this
it was that attracted me. Imagine long yellow locks of brightest gold, not exactly curling,
but waving in short, determined waves back from a low forehead. Ah, I cannot describe to you
that wonderful hair, how it shone on me through the gloaming, and drew me irresistibly to the
man himself! I stopped, and asked one of the others what the row had been about.

"'O, he pitched into a feller that was kicking a dog, and came near getting kicked hisself,'
was the only answer I got, as he walked off with his companion. I turned to my hero, and, as
our eyes met, a pleasant smile lighted up his face. 'Can you tell me the nearest place where
I can buy a hat?' he said; 'there's not much use in picking up that thing,' pointing to a mashed
heap in the gutter.

"'I should think not,' I said. 'There is no shop near, but if you will come round the corner
to my rooms, I can provide you with a covering of some kind.'

"'Thank you,' he answered, and we walked away together. There was not time for much talk, and
he had said nothing of himself when we opened the door. Satterlee was standing with his back
to the fire, and no sooner did he see my companion than he sprang forward, in eager welcome.
'Burton of Darrow, by all the gods!' he cried. 'Where's your hat, good friend?'

"He of the golden locks burst into a merry laugh,--what white teeth he had! 'It is gone forever.
Do let me know your friend, who has been so kind to me about it.'

"We were introduced to each other in due form, and Burton sat down at our hearth like an old
friend, chatting merrily, and warming his great fists at the blaze. 'I ought not to have stayed
so long,' he said presently, 'my father will have waited for me. Can the hats be marshalled,
Mr. Erle?'

"I brought out all my store, and Satterlee's too, and, amid much laughter, Burton managed to
hide some of his mane under a soft felt, and bade us good night. 'I must have you both at Darrow,'
he said, his hand on the latch; 'remember that, and expect a note in the morning to tell you
when to come.'

"As the door closed I laid my hands on Dick's shoulders. 'Who is he?' was all I said.

"'Why, Gerald, you're waking up,' he answered. 'If the male Burton can do this, what will not
Lillie do?'

"'But who is he?' I repeated.

"'He's the oldest son of John Burton of Darrow, in ----shire. They are farmers, and they might
be gentlemen, but they are queer, and won't. For generations untold they have cultivated their
own land, and are mighty men at the plough and in the saddle. So are the women of the family,
for that matter. But you will see when we go down. They are one of the few great yeoman families
left in the land. We shall have a jolly time.'

"'And who is Lillie?' I asked.

"'This man's sister. If you want to see a woman ride, see her,--it's absolute perfection,--hereditary
too: they all ride till they marry.'

"'And not afterwards?' I said, very much amused.

"'Never for mere pleasure, I believe. They have family traditions about all sorts of things,
this among others. It is some notion about taking care of their homes and children, if I remember
rightly. Miss Lillie will tell you all about it. How lucky that you met Jack this afternoon.'

"This was all I could get out of Satterlee; but, dull as you may think it, I was really interested,
and waited impatiently for the coming invitation.

"The next morning arrived a note from Mr. Burton, asking us, in his father's name, to spend
the next week at Darrow, and saying that the farmers' races were to take place then, and would
be our only amusement. Before the day for starting came, I had lost half the enthusiasm which
the sight of valiant Jack Burton's hair had kindled, and tried hard to get off from going;
but Satterlee was bent on a week's riding, as he always called our visit, and we started early
one Wednesday morning, and at dusk on Friday found ourselves entering the broad valley which
formed the Darrow estate. Satterlee was familiar with the ground, and discoursed eloquently
of its beauty and fertility as we drove along; but he failed to interest me, for, to tell the
truth, I was sunk in melancholy, and thought only of Miss Ferrers and of that which had passed
between us. Why had I come all these miles to see people who were total strangers to me, and
would almost certainly prove dull, or even vulgar? Dick was an enthusiast, and not to be believed,--we
might turn back even then.

"Such were my thoughts as we entered the lane at the end of which shone the lights of Darrow
House. As we drew near, I could see that it was a mere farm-house,--very large indeed, but
otherwise in no way remarkable. We drove up to a side-door, and had hardly stopped when the
ringing voice of Jack Burton greeted our ears, and he came striding out, his glorious hair
all afloat, as I had seen him in London streets a week before. All my love for the man--and
I can use no lesser term--came back on the instant, and I grasped his hand almost as warmly
as he did mine, I was so glad to be there.

"'Come in and see my father,' he said. 'He was afraid we should not see you to-night.'

"We went into the hall, and then, immediately through an open door at the farther end, into
the most homelike room I ever saw,--a large room, exquisitely toned by great brown rafters,
and lit by two fires, one at each end. Near one stood an immense wooden table covered with
tools of every kind, and with what seemed to me a confused heap of saddles and bridles. Over
it bent two men and a woman. I only saw that all three had the same wonderful light hair which
so fascinated me; for Burton led us directly to the other fire, and introduced us to his father.
He was a man of seventy, very roughly dressed, but self-possessed and courteous. 'You are welcome
to Darrow,' he said, in low, gentle tones. 'I hope I shall be able to give you good sport while
you are here.'

"This seemed to be all we were expected to say with him, for he bowed slightly, and Burton
said, 'Come now to the workshop, as I call it,' and led us to the other end of the room. Satterlee
went forward and shook hands warmly with the two young men and their sister, whose face I did
not see, as it was turned away from me; and then Burton said, 'Lillie, this is Mr. Erle, whose
hat you found so comfortable.'

"As he began to speak, she looked round, and held out her hand with a frank smile, saying,
'I, too, must thank you for that famous hat, Mr. Erle, for I wore it in a hard rain, day before
yesterday, when I had to go out to train my colt for the coming races.'

"She said this very simply, in a sweet, almost singing tone, not unlike her father's, looking
me full in the face meanwhile. I will try to tell you what she was like,--for I can remember
her, after all these years, just as she stood, a saddler's awl in her hand, by the great table
at Darrow. She was tall and broad and perfectly symmetrical in figure. I have never seen a
woman who at the first glance gave the idea of elastic strength as she did, and yet she was
by no means what you would call a large woman. Her face was like her brother's, really handsome,
and full of sweetness,--the eyes so blue and living that no one could disbelieve their story
of a great soul beneath. And, like her brother, she was crowned with a golden glory of hair.
It was half brushed from her face, and clung thickly to her head, then wound in shining braids
at the back,--waving and rippling just like Jack's. I never saw such wonderful heads as these
four Burtons had. I can give you no idea of them. Her mouth was what I should call abrupt,--that
is, shapely, deep-cut at the corners,--the lips smiling without opening widely, or showing
more than a white flash of teeth. She so smiled as she spoke to me that first evening, and
impressed me even then as no other woman ever had.

"'I am glad my hat has been so honored, Miss Burton,' I answered. 'I hope the colt for whom
you take such trouble may win his race.'

"'Help me, then, by taking an interest in this saddle,' she said. 'I have an idea about the
girths which these dear brothers of mine will not understand.'

"We all gathered round the table while Lillie explained her theory. The saddle was an old one,
and smelt strongly of the stable; but they all handled it as if it were a nice, interesting
toy; and when the girth question was finally decided by my strong approval, Lillie and the
brother George went to work with awl and needle like experienced saddlers, and soon had the
necessary alterations made.

"She looked up at me as she sewed, and said: 'You may think these are strange ways, but we
do all such things for ourselves, especially this week, when we live for our horses. We are
thorough yeomen, you know.'

"We talked on until supper was announced. Old Burton opened a small door at his end of the
room, and waited with his hand on the latch while we went through, when, to my surprise, I
found we were in the kitchen, surrounded by a large number of servants. We sat down at a long
table by the fire, and then the servants took their places at the lower end, leaving two to
serve us all. Burton stood at the head of the table until all were seated, then bowed, and
said in the same gentle tone he had used in greeting us, 'You are welcome,' and sat down himself.
No grace was said, but each person silently crossed himself.

"I was placed at the host's right hand, and we talked during supper of the races, and of horses
generally, while Satterlee and Lillie Burton, on the other side of the table, did the same.
It was the one subject which interested the Darrow household just then, and the servants even
listened, eagerly and silently, to all that was said. Lillie's colt, it seemed, was entered
for one of the races, and she had been training him herself with intense assiduity; but there
was great difficulty in finding a rider, now he was trained.

"'I know he would win,' she cried, shaking her head disconsolately, 'but you are all so heavy.'

"'Ride him yourself, Miss Burton,' Dick suggested.

"'They won't let me.'

"'Who won't let you?'

"'O, the Earl. He gives the races, you know, and is a perfect dragon about them.'

"'I can't offer my own services,' Satterlee went on, 'for you know you wouldn't have me.'

"The Burtons all smiled at this, and Dick explained to me: 'I was on a horse of Miss Burton's
a year or two ago, and didn't want to put him over a horrid rough gully; but she, on the farther
side, cried out, "Let him break his knees if he is so clumsy," and so he did.'

"'It was your fault, though,' the frank young lady answered.

"I remember that at the end of the meat the servants rose and bowed to their master, he acknowledging
the courtesy sitting. Then we did the same, and all went to the other room. After half an hour's
talk round old Mr. Burton's chair, a peal of bells sounded in some distant part of the house,
to my intense surprise, and we thereupon marched off down a long, long corridor to I could
not imagine what. Satterlee whispered, 'Philip Burton is in orders,--this is Even-Song,' just
as we entered a little chapel. There were kneeling-chairs for all, and the beautiful Burton
heads sank devoutly upon them. It was a choral service, Lillie playing a small organ, and Philip
chanting with the family and servants.

"As we went out, old Mr. Burton wished each good night; then some one showed me where my room
was, and I found myself alone. I was really confused. Where was I, and what had I been doing?
Did all the people in this part of the country have such strange ways? I looked at my watch,
and found it was but just nine o'clock, and yet I seemed to have lived years since the morning.
The evening service, so beautifully sung, had quite upset me. It was months since I had been
in a church, and this had come so unexpectedly,--the dim light, the low, peculiar voices, the
simple fervor. I began to think Darrow was a dream from beginning to end, when Satterlee put
his head in at the door with a grin, and said, 'Well, how is my Gerry?'

"'A little dazed,' I answered; 'but come in, man, and prepare me for the morning.'

"'No,' he whispered, 'not allowable. Bedtime is bedtime here. Good night.'

"I went to bed in self-defence, and half dreamed, half thought, of horses, and choral services,
and golden heads, until sound sleep came to my relief. It could not have been more than seven
o'clock when I awoke, and yet on going to the window it was evident that the inhabitants of
Darrow had been long up and about, for the farm-yard was in order for the day, the carts gone
a-field, and the cattle-sheds empty. George and Philip Burton were busily engaged near the
barn door, the one in turning a grindstone, the other in sharpening an axe; and from the barn
itself came the melodious voices of Lillie and her brother Jack. Presently they came out, she
leading a long-legged horse which I immediately recognized as answering to the description
of the colt. He was of a dull gray color, and at the first glance I set him down as about the
ugliest horse I had ever seen, his only good points being a very decent chest, and striding
hind-legs of extraordinary length and muscle; otherwise he was utterly commonplace. But evidently
there was some great fascination in the beast, for the four Burtons gathered round him and
looked him over with that anxious scrutiny we always display when examining our horses, then
patted him admiringly, and, as I judged from the expression of their faces, were well pleased
with his morning looks.

"As I turned from my window, I glanced beyond the farm-yard to see what kind of a country I
was in, and my eyes were greeted with as fair a prospect as rural England can afford. Imagine
a green, rolling valley, some five miles broad, shut in on three sides by low hills, and sloping
gently to the sea on the fourth. The water was perhaps three miles from Darrow House, but I
could see that two little friths ran up far into the meadow-land. One other large farm-house
was in sight, and some twenty or thirty cottages, all looking so bright and cosey in the clear
October sunlight, that my heart was filled with joy at the sight, and I began my toilet actually
singing a merry old song. I was soon down stairs, and out in the fragrant barnyard.

"Lillie sat upon a pile of logs, one hand half hidden in her hair, as she leaned lazily back
on her elbow, looking at her brothers, who were making the air resound with mighty strokes
as they hewed away at a tree which stood near the house door. 'Well done, Philip; you're none
the worse woodman for being parson too,' she cried; then, seeing me, she rose with a bright
color in her cheeks, and held out her hand in hearty morning greeting. 'We did not know when
you would be rested from your journey,' she said, 'and so did not have you called. Will you
come in to breakfast now?'

"The three brothers stopped their work as we went in, and bade me a cheerful good-morrow. I
have never since seen such men,--so big, so handsome, so modest, with such bright, healthy
faces. None of them talked a great deal, not even my favorite Jack; but I felt then as I should
feel now if I met one of them anywhere, that their friendship meant trust and loyalty and service
more than most men's.

"Jack went with us to a little room at the side of the house where breakfast was laid for two;
but when Satterlee joined us, Jack said with a laugh, 'I will leave you to tell all about everything,
Lillie, and go back to my chopping,' and so went out.

"'If I must tell about everything,' Lillie began, 'I must tell about the races first, for they
are more important than anything else just now. Thursday is the great day, and all the farmers
in the neighborhood will have horses there. It is the grand gathering of the year for us, and
the gentry come down and walk about among the horses, and are as kind and gracious as can be.
They always buy some of the best; and happy is the man who can sell a beast to the Earl, or
to Sir Francis Gilmor, for they are great judges, and have the best stables in the county.
There are five races during the day, the first being for ponies, the second for colts, and
so on; and in the evening we have a ball at the Earl's, and the five riders who win are given
presents by the Countess herself. O, it is a great day!' she went on, more and more enthusiastically;
'there is no other time so pleasant in all the year. George has in his bay mare, and I have
entered my colt. Have you seen my colt?'

"'Yes,' I answered, 'I saw him from the window this morning.'

"Lillie looked me straight in the face a moment, and then said, with a little plaintive shake
of the head: 'Ah, I see! You will laugh at him like all the rest. But you must see him go,--he
is almost handsome then.'

"'I should think he might be,' I answered, trying to console her for my lack of admiration.

"'They are so mean about him,' she went on, smiling. 'When he was two years old they were going
to give him away because he was so ugly and stupid; but I begged hard that he might stay at
Darrow, and my father gave him to me for my own. I have had him now four years. You don't know
how much I have suffered for that horse. But I have never despaired, and have trained him so
well that he has great speed already, though they may laugh at his rough looks. O, if I can
only win this race! It will be such a feather in my cap!'

"Satterlee laughed merrily at this. 'As zealous a racer as ever, I see, Miss Lillie. How I
wish you would let me ride for you!'

"'Perhaps I may,' she answered. 'There is no knowing to what straits I may be driven.'

"Already something in this woman attracted me, dead as I supposed my heart to be. There was
an indescribable freshness and vigor about everything she said and did, so different from the
manner of the ladies I had lately seen,--a merry, defiant way which invited battle, and made
one feel bright and springy. How can I tell what it was? I loved the woman from that very morning,
and I love the memory of her now,--she stood so unembarrassed, so full of life, as we two ate
our breakfast in the little, sunny room,--she was so lithe, so symmetrical. When we rose she
said, 'My father thought you would like to fish with him, Mr. Satterlee, and Mr. Erle is to
ride with me, if he so pleases.' I murmured a few words of compliment, and she went on: 'Come
out to the barn and choose a horse, and Mr. Satterlee may have a look at the colt.' We followed
her out of doors, just as we were,--hatless, like herself.

"'It is no fine stable we have at Darrow, but the horses are well off, and I pass so much time
with them that I love the old, dingy place,' she said, as we crossed the yard.

"It was a great country barn, in truth, low and warm, with places for cows and sheep as well
as horses. A broad floor ran from one great door to the other, covered with loose wisps of
hay and straw, and above our heads was the winter's store of both. A red rush-bottomed chair
and a table stood at one end,--two little pieces of furniture around which cluster the pleasantest
memories of my life,--Lillie's chair and Lillie's table, where she sat to sew and sing among
her animals. What happy mornings I spent there by her side.

"As we went in she began to talk to her colt, as a woman generally talks to babies. 'Why, my
sweet one, my own lamb, my coltikins, was he glad to hear his granny coming to see him?'--and
so on.

"The colt, who was in a box at the end of the barn, acknowledged all this tenderness by putting
his heavy head over the rail and half pricking up one ear; but Lillie seemed to think this
slight sign of intellect all that could be desired, and went up to him with a thousand caresses.

"'How like a woman to love that horse, now,' said Satterlee.

"Lillie turned towards him with a brilliant smile. 'I sha'n't take up arms about it, for why
should I be ashamed that I have a woman's heart, and love my own things more because they are
unfortunate, and other people make fun of them?'

"From that moment I resolved the colt should win, if it was in mortal riding to make him.

"'Miss Burton,' I said boldly, 'I see great qualities in your horse. May I ride him for you
on Thursday?'

"She seemed a little startled by the suddenness of the proposal, but answered quickly, 'I shall
be so much obliged! Will you think it rude if I ask you to ride him two or three times first?'

"'Of course not. Do you ride him yourself this morning?'

"'Yes, and which horse will you take? There are three or four there for you to choose from.'

"I walked down the row of stalls, and decided on an old hunter who turned the whites of his
eyes round at me as if he longed for a gallop. Lillie called a man in from the yard, and said,
'Saddle the roan and Nathan, and bring them to the east door.'

"'Eh, Miss Lillie,' cried Satterlee, 'what name was that I heard? Nathan?'

"'Well, why not?' she answered. 'Father named him so in fun, and I keep it to show I don't
care how much they laugh at him.'

"Satterlee seemed intensely amused. 'Nathan, Nathan!' he repeated. 'Winner of the Earl's race!
Nathan, Nathan!'

"I went into the house for my hat and spurs, and on coming out found that Dick had gone off
with old Mr. Burton, leaving his best wishes for the colt's success. Presently Lillie came
out, clad in a dark habit, with a knot of blue ribbon at the throat, holding in her hand a
whip so formidable that I was involuntarily reminded of the knouts of Russia. I suppose the
thought was visible in my face, for she said quickly, 'I don't always carry this; but when
Nathan is to do his best, I have to urge him to it, for if I depended on his own ambition we
should soon be left behind.'

"'Indeed,' I answered. 'Then you must let me practise well before Thursday.'

"As I said these words the horses were brought to the door, and, before I could offer any assistance,
Lillie had swung herself from the stump of the felled tree into her saddle. I remembered Satterlee's
words about her perfect horsemanship, and glanced at her as I mounted. Even in that moment,
as she sat perfectly still on the awkward colt's back, I saw how truly he had spoken. She was
merely sitting there, without any of the fascination which motion gives, and yet I had never
seen such a rider among women. You will think I exaggerate, but, as I am a man of honor, I
assure you that an exact copy in marble of Lillie Burton, as she waited for my mounting on
that autumn morning, would be a more beautiful equestrian statue than the world has ever seen.
Such ease and strength and grace--Ah well! I shall not let you smile at my enthusiasm by any
attempt at describing her. We started, unattended, our faces towards the sea.

"'Do you want to look at the race-course?' Lillie said.

"'Yes.'

"'Then follow me,'--and with the word she called cheerily to her horse, and swung her whip
with such effect that what was a canter became a gallop, and then a run, so long, so fierce,
so reckless, that I held my breath as I looked at her. We went right across country, over fences
and ditches by the dozen, and never drew rein until we reached the shore.

"Then she turned in her saddle as I came up, and nodded triumphantly, her face a thousand times
brighter and more bewitching than I had seen it yet.

"'Well, what do you think of Nathan now?' she asked.

"'He is wonderful,' I answered.

"'But that is by no means his best. You wait here, and I will put him round the course once
as well as I can. We are to go down the beach to that white post, then up through the big field,
over a bad hedge, which we must leap at a particular spot, then across the lane and through
these four last fields home, and then over it all again. You shall try the ground this afternoon
if you will.'

"She said all this rapidly, as if the business of the day had begun, and cantered down the
sloping field. Arrived near the starting-point, I heard her give what seemed almost a yell,
and lethargic Nathan, well awake, burst into the same tremendous pace, going faster and faster
every moment, until he attained a speed which seemed positively terrific, a woman being in
the saddle, and then Lillie ceased urging him, and rode unflaggingly, as she only could, over
all obstacles, until she reached my side.

"'How can there be any doubt of your winning?" I asked.

"'I sometimes think there is none when Nathan has been going so well; but'--and a cloud came
over her face--'there is one colt I am really afraid of,--a little black mare of Harry Dunn's.
O, how that creature flies over the ground!'

"'I am not afraid,' I answered. 'You shall win, Miss Burton, if I die for it.'

"She laughed at my eager way of saying this, and we rode towards home, she talking all the
way of Darrow and of the neighbors, of farming and of sailing,--for she was as much at home
in a boat as on horseback. Ah, what a contrast to the dark-eyed, proud Miss Ferrers! I wondered
how I could have been in love with any other than Lillie Burton, whose ways were so unaffected,
whose whole nature was so healthy. What cared I for the languid accomplishments of city belles?
Here was a real woman, kind and strong, and unhurt by the world's ways. Even in the excitement
of the hardest gallop I saw no trace of vulgarity, no sign of unwomanly jockeyship, only a
true, unconcealed interest in her horse and his performances,--an interest worthy of her English
heart. We rode home in high spirits, feeling sure that the race would be ours, even Nathan
entering into the gayety of the moment, and actually shying at a boy who lay asleep by the
roadside. Lillie yielded so lithely to the sudden jump, that I could not help saying, 'How
did you learn to ride so well?' and she answered, laughing: 'O, it is born in us; and then
I rode recklessly for years before I got a good seat. I mean that I folded my arms, and galloped
anywhere with tied reins, and half the time no stirrup. That is the best thing to do. Your
old roan there has carried me at his own will for many a mile. He was as fast as Nathan at
his age, and twice as spirited.'

"So we chatted as we rode home through the low lanes. The midday sun shone down on us as we
came to Darrow House; and as I left Lillie at the door, to go up and dress for the farm dinner,
I felt a new man, warmed with the bright day, and with the new hope which rose so sweetly in
my tired heart.

"I will not weary you with the details of my days at the Burtons'. The old father ruled over
his household like a king, and all yielded him loving obedience. Jack and his two stalwart
brothers came and went, busy with all sorts of farming operations, and Lillie and I devoted
ourselves to Nathan's further education. On Sunday the farmers and peasants came to church
at the chapel in the house, and Philip Burton did for them all a true priest should. On every
other day in the week, too, he held school for the children, instructing them just so far and
no farther, 'Let them know how to read and write and do simple sums,' he said, 'but don't let's
stuff their heads with learning beyond their station. It only makes them discontented, and
would upset society in the end.' And so he let them come until he thought they knew enough,
were the time longer or shorter, and after that the door was shut.

"In the mornings, Lillie and I, and often Satterlee, sat in the barn for hours, she sewing
and talking with us, stopping sometimes to give directions to a workman, or to listen to some
poor neighbor's tale of woe. For she seemed to attract every one, and, as surely as a child
was sick or a cow lost, the whole story must be told to 'Darrow Lillie,' as they called her.
She listened with ready sympathy, and always gave some quick, personal aid. I never saw a more
charming picture than that which greeted me one morning as I came in at the barn door;--Lillie
seated at her little table, close by the colt's stall, two dogs at her feet, and a soft black
kitten in her hands, held lovingly against her cheek; beside her stood a peasant woman in a
red cloak, wringing her hands, and telling how her husband had deserted her; a big-eyed calf
looked in at the door behind, doubtful if he might come in as usual; and, over all, the October
sunlight, mellow with barn-dust. I remember Lillie asked the woman where her husband was, and,
learning he was at Plashy, Sir Francis Gilmor's seat, said she would see him that very day.
And I am sure she did, for after dinner she went off alone on the roan hunter, and the next
day I saw the same woman, with far happier mien, trudging along the lane by the side of her
sheep-faced husband.

"So the days passed by, and Wednesday evening was come. We sat before the fire, and counted
the chances for and against my winning the race, for it was a settled thing now that I should
be Nathan's rider. I was as interested as any Burton of them all, and more so perhaps, for
I felt that on my success the next day depended my success in what my whole heart was now determined
on,--the winning of Lillie Burton's hand. I was quick at my conclusions at twenty-four, you
see. Satterlee was still incredulous, and really annoyed me by his way of speaking,--offering
to pick the yellow hairs out of Nathan's coat so as to make it shine a little, and otherwise
employing his wit at our expense. Lillie laughed good-naturedly, and said they only made her
love the horse the more by their unkind remarks.

"'Do you really love him,' Jack asked.

"'Certainly I do,' she answered. 'I have a deep affection for him.'

"'And I hope you will bestow some kind regard on his rider also,' I whispered, bending over
her chair.

"She looked up in her own quick way, and, as our eyes met, I thought hers were bright with
love, as well as mine. As you would say, now-a-days, our souls met; and from that moment a
strange, triumphant happiness filled my heart. The short Darrow evening wore to its close,
and I neither spoke to Lillie again nor looked at her, but sat silent, rejoicing, until at
even-song I poured out my thankfulness to God, and praised him for this great gift,--Lillie
Burton, my peerless, truthful Lillie, mine until death should part us, mine in all joy and
sorrow, always my own! With what certainty of peace I went to my rest that night,--with what
instinct of some great joy I woke in the morning,--the bright autumn morning which held my fate!

"The races were to begin at noon, and by eleven o'clock we all set forth from Darrow House,
well mounted and gallantly arrayed. There was no unnecessary coddling of the horses. I rode
Nathan, and George rode the horse he had entered for the third race; and the only unusual thing
was, that we eschewed fences, and slowly wended our way through the lanes, to the little knoll
by the beach, where the rude judge's stand was erected.

"Already a crowd of farmers had assembled, some coming in carts with their wives and daughters,
some riding rough plough-horses, and some on foot. Not a few children had come too,--red-cheeked
boys and girls, mounted on the wiry ponies of the country, riding about and making the air
resound with their merry laughter. Every one seemed to know every one else, to judge by the
hearty greetings exchanged On all sides, and every one was in the best possible humor. After
all these years, the impression I received at this rustic gathering is undimmed. There were
only these people. There was no set race-course, no eager betting, but never before or since
have I seen a race assemblage so full of honest, interested faces, or showing so thorough an
enjoyment of the day.

"As we came up, the little crowd separated, that we might ride to the top of the knoll, for
Burton of Darrow was held in high respect, and way was made for him everywhere. We were now
the centre of attention, and I was beginning to feel my city assurance giving way under the
glance of honest interest directed towards me and my colt, when a murmur arose, 'Here come
the gentry,' and, looking up the lane, I saw an open carriage full of ladies, and half a dozen
gentlemen on horseback, approaching us. 'It is the party from Plashy,' Lillie said, 'and there
is the Earl in the North Lane,' pointing out two or three more carriages. All was bustle now,
for the horses which were to run must be ridden to a certain part of the field, and ranged
side by side for the Earl's inspection. I found myself between a little fellow on a bay horse,
and a handsome, curly-headed young farmer who sat a beautiful black mare like another Prince Hal.

"He bowed politely, and said, 'You ride the Darrow colt, then, sir.'

"'Yes,' I answered, 'and you are Harry Dunn, are you not?'

"'At your service, sir. It will be a hard race between us two.'

"Just then the Earl came up to look at the horses, as his custom was. We had met in London,
and he recognized me with some surprise in my novel, situation as jockey; but a few words explained
the case, and he turned to young Dunn, saying, with a smile, 'She's very handsome, my man;
but it's an awful temper, if I know a horse's eye,'--and indeed the words were hardly out of
his Lordship's mouth when the Witch, as she was called, kicked out savagely at a passing boy,
and then reared so high and so long that I feared she would fall back on her rider; but Harry
Dunn was no novice, and in a few minutes she was standing quietly enough, with dilated nostril
and glowing eyes.

"'He'll ride her in before you, if he kills her,' the Earl whispered, turning to me. 'Darrow
Lillie is looking on.'

"'He loves her, then?' I asked, as calmly as I could.

"'I should rather think he did,' the old gentleman answered, shrugging his shoulders, and walking
off to some other horses.

"I looked round to see where Lillie was, and felt reassured when I saw she had not even turned
in her saddle while her lover's life was in danger, but was still talking with Sir Francis
Gilmor. I heard him say, 'I doubt whether I shall make an offer for that gray colt of yours';
and she answered, laughing, 'You shall have the first chance after the race, Sir Francis. It
will break my heart if he does not win.'

"The pony race was soon called, and I dismounted to stand by Lillie's side and watch it. As
I stood, my hand upon the roan's shoulder, ready to seize the reins if he became excited, for
Lillie had flung them, as usual, upon his neck, and sat carelessly in the saddle, her hands
crossed on her knee,--as I stood there, I say, I heard suddenly, above the loud talk of the
farmers, a voice the sound of which made my heart leap up into my throat,--a woman's voice,
cold and clear,--the words merely, 'Yes, a perfect day,' but they were full of horrible meaning
to me. I felt that my week's dream of happiness was at an end, and that my old life personified
had come to take me away. My presence of mind enabled me not to turn round at the moment; but
as I mounted for the race, half an hour afterwards, I glanced towards the Earl's carriage,
and there, at the Countess's side, sat Selina Ferrers. At the same instant I was aware of a
stifled scream, and the sound of my name; but I paid no heed, and rode slowly down the field
to where Harry Dunn and the other waited my coming at the starting-post. Imagine my feelings
as I listened for the signal. Win! Why I would have won if I had died at Lillie's feet the
moment afterwards.

"We were well away, we three men, but Harry and I soon got ahead, and flew with the speed of
Browning's couriers over the flashing sand. I obeyed Lillie's last orders, and spared neither
whip nor spur; but the black mare, almost uncontrolled, gained inch by inch, and leaped the
last ditch fully three lengths ahead. We were to go round once again, and I lifted my whip
for a desperate blow, just as we reached the bottom of the knoll, knowing that unless I got
the colt into his best pace then all was lost; but he, stupid brute, thought the run was over,
and swerved with a heavy plunge almost to his mistress's side. Before I could recover my control,
I heard Lillie cry, her voice trembling with vexation, 'O, what riding!' and I saw tears in
her eyes, as she pulled the frightened roan up on his haunches to make way for me.

"It was enough. Even Nathan felt there was to be no more trifling, and as I tore his side with
my heel he broke at last into his great, fearful stride, and before we reached the lane Harry
Dunn's black mare was straining every nerve lengths and lengths behind, and in three minutes
more I stood humbly by Lillie's side, winner of the Earl's race. I scarcely heard the shouts
of the crowd, or even the questions addressed to myself. Once again I was secure. No danger
now from Harry Dunn on the one side, or Selina Ferrers on the other. The certain peace of the
morning was mine again. It all seems so foolish, as I look back upon it now; but as I stood
for those few brief moments by Flury Beach, surrounded by the golden-headed Burtons, the blue
sea before me, and the fair green pastures behind, I was a happy man,--happier than I have
ever been since.

"As the crowd separated, while the horses were got ready for the next race, I heard again the
voice of Selina Ferrers; but it did not move me, for just then Lillie bent her beautiful head
close by mine, and in her own low, singing tones, so much truer and more touching than the
London belle's, said, 'Mr. Erle, what can I do to thank you?'

"I looked up frankly and gladly. 'May I tell you when we are at home to-night?'

"'Not till then?'

"'No, not till then,' I answered. And from my very heart I believe she had no idea what I meant,
for she turned to Sir Francis Gilmor with an ease she could not have affected, and began to
talk with him of Nathan.

"I stood looking at the racers, with real interest, for George Burton was riding, and I could
see his hair shining in the wind far down the beach, and I was thinking of Lillie and Lillie's
happiness, when a servant in livery came up, and said the Countess wished to speak with me.
Had he presented a pistol at my head, the shock would not have been greater. As I approached
the carriage I looked Selina Ferrers full in the face, and what did I read there? Great God!
I cannot think of it with calmness even now.

"I bowed as coldly as politeness would allow, but the Countess put our her hand in cordial
greeting, and begged me to take a seat with them for the rest of the morning. I murmured something
about owing my time to the Burtons, and, after a few indifferent remarks (explaining how Miss
Ferrers had decided not to go to Spain), was on the point of withdrawing, when the Countess
said, 'At least, Mr. Erle, we shall see you at the castle'; and not until I had promised to
come to her the next day would she let me go. As I turned, a light hand was laid upon my arm
for an instant, and I heard an eager whisper, 'Gerald! what does this mean? I am here for your
sake;--but I kept on my way as if I had not heard, and breathed freely again at Lillie's bridle-rein.

"Why should I describe the rest of the day to you? You see already how it had to end. I was
with Lillie all day long, as happy as a king, though a little shocked when I heard at dinner
that Nathan was sold to Sir Francis. But the day had been full of joy; and when all its festivities
were over, and we drove home from the ball, it seemed as if no cloud hung over me.

"The Burtons went to the barn to care for the horses, and I was alone with Lillie by the great
table. I asked her very simply if she would be my wife, and she told me that I asked in vain.

"'Even if I loved you, Mr. Erle,' she went on,--'even if I loved you, I could not be your wife.
You are a gentleman, and I am a farmer's daughter; and you know even better than I do that
we could not be happy very long. You will be glad some day that I did not lead you into such
sore trial.'

"Some such words as these were the last words I ever heard from Lillie Burton's mouth, for
the men came in, and she left the room; and as she passed me that night, dressed in a gown
of softest white, her exquisite head bent in sorrow and tenderness, her eyes radiant through
their tears, I saw her for the last time. We have never met, even for an instant, since."

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Erle ceased speaking, and I gave a great sigh of relief. His last words had been uttered
with so much feeling that neither my grandfather nor I could interrupt the long silence, as
he sat looking dreamily into the fire. When at length he spoke, it was of an entirely different
subject, and, after half an hour's conversation, he drank a last glass of the old wine, and
bade us good night, wringing my grandfather's hand with more than usual warmth.

I waited almost impatiently until I heard the house-door close, and then, "Who is Mrs. Erle?"
I asked.

"Who do you suppose?" my grandfather answered.

"No one. How should I?"

"And yet you heard Mr. Erle tell the part about the Countess?"

"Yes."

"And you do not guess what happened?"

"No. I dare say I am very stupid; but do tell me," I begged.

"Well, then, my dear, the morning after the races, Erle went to the castle, and the Countess
was very kind, as great ladies often are, and he stayed for a week, since she pressed the matter
so; and then there was an excursion into Wales, where most untoward things occurred, and the
grand finale was a wedding at Lord West's in London."

"Then he married Miss Ferrers!" I exclaimed.

"Yes, my dear, even so. You have never seen the lady, I believe?"

"No, never. Is anything the matter with her?"

"Anything the matter with her? Yes, she is insane. Quite harmless, you know; but having been
made with the worst temper in England, this climate has developed it into positive insanity."

"And she lives at home?" I asked, sadly, for it came over me what a tragedy Mr. Erle's life
must be.

"Yes, Gerald is more than faithful to her. Ah, Thesta, child, we do not know all the patient
endurance of God's men and women in this nineteenth century."

The bells of St. Mary's rang midnight as I lighted my bedroom candle, and kissed the smooth
brow of my white-haired hero. "You do not ask what became of Lillie Burton," he said.

"Did you ever hear of her?"

"Yes, Satterlee was there years afterwards, and found her Lillie Dunn, with three children
clinging to her skirts."

"And Nathan?"

"O, Nathan turned out splendidly, and led the Flury hunt for years. They say his memory is
green in ----shire yet."

"Poor Mr. Erle!" I said, summing up the whole story, as I went off to bed.

THE LITTLE LAND OF APPENZELL. Houses and villages, scattered over the steep ascending plane,
present themselves distinctly to the eye; the various green of forest and pasture land is rarely
interrupted by the gray of rocky walls; and the afternoon sun touches the topmost edge of each
successive elevation with a sharp outline of golden light, through the rich gloom of the shaded
slopes. Behind and over this region rise the serrated peaks of the Sentis Alp, standing in
advance of the farther ice-fields of Glarus, like an outer fortress, garrisoned in summer by
the merest forlorn hope of snow.

The green fronts nearest the lake, and the lower lands falling away to the right and left,
belong to the Canton of St. Gall; but all aloft, beyond that frontier marked by the sinking
sun, lies the Appenzeller Ländli, as it is called in the endearing diminutive of the Swiss-German
tongue,--the Little Land of Appenzell.

If, leaving the Lake of Constance by the Rhine valley, you ascend to Ragatz and the Baths of
Pfeffers, thence turn westward to the Lake of Wallenstatt, cross into the valley of the Toggenburg,
and so make your way northward and eastward around the base of the mountains back to the starting-point,
you will have passed only through the territory of St. Gall. Appenzell is an Alpine island,
wholly surrounded by the former canton. From whatever side you approach, you must climb in
order to get into it. It is a nearly circular tract, failing from the south towards the north,
but lifted, at almost every point, over the adjoining lands. This altitude and isolation is
an historical as well as a physical peculiarity. When the Abbots of St. Gall, after having
reduced the entire population of what is now two Cantons to serfdom, became more oppressive
as their power increased, it was the mountain shepherds who, in the year 1403, struck the first
blow for liberty. Once free, they kept their freedom, and established a rude democracy on the
heights, similar in form and spirit to the league which the Forest Cantons had founded nearly
a century before. An echo from the meadow of Grütli reached the wild valleys around the Sentis,
and Appenzell, by the middle of the fifteenth century, became one of the original states out
of which Switzerland has grown.

I find something very touching and admirable in this fragment of hardly noticed history. The
people isolated themselves by their own act, held together, organized a simple yet sufficient
government, and maintained their sturdy independence, while their brethren on every side, in
the richer lands below them, were fast bound in the gyves of a priestly despotism. Individual
liberty seems to be a condition inseparable from mountain life; that once attained, all other
influences are conservative in their character. The Cantons of Unterwalden, Schwytz, Glarus,
and Appenzell retain to-day the simple, primitive forms of democracy which had their origin
in the spirit of the people nearly six hundred years ago.

Twice had I looked up to the little mountain republic from the lower lands to the northward,
with the desire and the determination to climb one day the green buttresses which support it
on every side; so, when I left St. Gall on a misty morning, in a little open carriage, bound
for Trogen, it was with the pleasant knowledge that a land almost unknown to tourists lay before
me. The only summer visitors are invalids, mostly from Eastern Switzerland and Germany, who
go up to drink the whey of goats' milk; and, although the fabrics woven by the people are known
to the world of fashion in all countries, few indeed are the travellers who turn aside from
the near highways. The landlord in St. Gall told me that his guests were almost wholly commercial
travellers, and my subsequent experience among an unspoiled people convinced me that I was
almost a pioneer in the paths I traversed.

It was the last Saturday in April, and at least a month too soon for the proper enjoyment of
the journey; but on the following day the Landsgemeinde, or Assembly of the People, was to
be held at Hundwyl, in the manner and with the ceremonies which have been annually observed
for the last three or four hundred years. This circumstance determined the time of my visit.
I wished to study the character of an Alpine democracy, so pure that it has not yet adopted
even the representative principle,--to be with and among a portion of the Swiss people at a
time when they are most truly themselves, rather than look at them through the medium of conventional
guides, on lines of travel which have now lost everything of Switzerland except the scenery.

There was bad weather behind, and, I feared, bad weather before me. "The sun will soon drive
away these mists," said the postilion, "and when we get up yonder, you will see what a prospect
there will be." In the rich valley of St. Gall, out of which we mounted, the scattered houses
and cloud-like belts of blossoming cherry-trees almost hid the green; but it sloped up and
down, on either side of the rising road, glittering with flowers and dew, in the flying gleams
of sunshine. Over us hung masses of gray cloud, which stretched across the valley, hooded the
opposite hills, and sank into a dense mass over the Lake of Constance. As we passed through
this belt, and rejoiced in the growing clearness of the upper sky, I saw that my only prospect
would be in cloud-land. After many windings, along which the blossoms and buds of the fruit-trees
indicated the altitude as exactly as any barometer, we finally reached the crest of the topmost
height, the frontier of Appenzell and the battle-field of Vöglisegg, where the herdsman first
measured his strength with the soldier and the monk, and was victorious.

"Whereabouts was the battle fought?" I asked the postilion.

"Up and down, and all around here," said he, stopping the carriage at the summit.

I stood up and looked to the north. Seen from above, the mist had gathered into dense, rounded
clouds, touched with silver on their upper edges. They hung over the lake, rolling into every
bay and spreading from shore to shore, so that not a gleam of water was visible; but over their
heaving and tossing silence rose, far away, the mountains of the four German states beyond
the lake. An Alp in Vorarlberg made a shining island in the sky. The postilion was loud in
his regrets, yet I thought the picture best as it was.

I looked, involuntarily, to find some difference in the population after passing the frontier.
But I had not counted upon the levelling influence which the same kind of labor exercises,
whether upon mountain or in valley. So long as Appenzell was a land of herdsmen, many peculiarities
of costume, features, and manners must have remained. For a long time, however, Outer-Rhoden,
as this part of the Canton is called, shares with that part of St. Gall which lies below it
the manufacture of fine muslins and embroideries. There are looms in almost every house, and
this fact explains the density of population and the signs of wealth on every hand, which would
otherwise puzzle the stranger. The houses are not only so near together that almost every man
can call to his neighbors and be heard, but they are large, stately, and even luxurious, in
contrast to the dwellings of other country people in Europe. The average population of Outer-Rhoden
amounts to four hundred and seventy-five persons to the square mile, being nearly double that
of the most thickly settled portions of Holland.

Many of the dwellings, I was told, could not be built with the present means of the population,
at the present prices of labor and material. They date from the palmy days of Appenzell industry,
before machinery had reduced the cost of the finer fabrics. Then, one successful manufacturer
competed with another in the erection of showy houses, and fifty thousand francs (a large sum
for the times) were frequently expended on a single dwelling.

Turning around the point of Vöglisegg, we made for Trogen, one of the two capitals of Outer-Rhoden,
which lay before us, across the head of the deep and wild St. Martin's Tobel. (Tobel is an
Appenzell word, corresponding precisely to the gulch of California.) My postilion mounted,
and the breathed horse trotted merrily along the winding level. One stately house after another,
with a clump of fruit-trees on the sheltered side, and a row of blooming hyacinths and wall-flowers
on the balcony, passed by on either side. The people we met were sunburnt and ugly, but there
was a rough air of self-reliance about them, and they gave me a hearty "God greet you!" one
and all. Just before reaching Trogen, the postilion pointed to an old, black, tottering platform
of masonry, rising out of a green slope of turf on the right. The grass around it seemed ranker
than elsewhere.

This was the place of execution, where capital criminals are still beheaded with the sword,
in the sight of the people. The postilion gave me an account, with all the horrible details,
of the last execution, only three years ago,--how the murderer would not confess until he was
brought out of prison to hear the bells tolling for his victim's funeral,--how thereupon he
was sentenced, and--but I will not relate further. I have always considered the death penalty
a matter of policy rather than principle; but the sight of that blood-stained platform, the
blood-fed weeds around it, and the vision of the headsman, in his red mantle, looking down
upon the bared neck stretched upon the block, gave me more horror of the custom than all the
books and speeches which have been said and written against it.

At Trogen I stopped at the principal inn, two centuries old, the quaint front painted in fresco,
the interior neat and fresh as a new toy,--a very gem of a house! The floor upon which I entered
from the street was paved with flat stones; a solid wooden staircase, dark with age, led to
the guests' room in the second story. One side of this room was given up to the windows, and
there was a charming hexagonal oriel in the corner. The low ceiling was of wood, in panels,
the stove a massive tower, faced with porcelain tiles, the floor polished nearly into whiteness,
and all the doors, cupboards, and tables, made of brown nutwood, gave an air of warmth and
elegance to the apartment. All other parts of the house were equally neat and orderly. The
hostess greeted me with, "Be you welcome!" and set about preparing dinner, as it was now nearly
noon. In the pauses of her work she came into the room to talk, and was very ready to give
information concerning the country and people.

There were already a little table and three plates in the oriel, and while I was occupied with
my own dinner I did not particularly notice the three persons who sat down to theirs. The coarseness
and harshness of their dialect, however, presently struck my ear. It was pure Appenzell, a
German made up of singular and puzzling elisions, and with a very strong guttural k and g,
in addition to the ch. Some knowledge of the Alemannic dialect of the Black Forest enabled
me to understand the subject of conversation, which, to my surprise, was--the study of the
classics! It was like hearing an Irishman talk of Shelley's "Witch of Atlas" in the broadest
Tipperary brogue. I turned and looked at the persons. They were well-dressed young men, evidently
the best class of Appenzellers,--possibly tutors in the schools of Trogen. Their speech in
no wise differed from that of the common herdsmen, except that they were now and then obliged
to use words which, being unknown to the people, had escaped mutilation. I entered into conversation,
to ascertain whether true German was not possible to them, since they must needs read and write
the language; but, although they understood me, they could only partly, and with evident difficulty,
lay aside their own patois. I found this to be the case everywhere throughout the Canton. It
is a circumstance so unusual, that, in spite of myself, associating a rude dialect with ignorance,
I was always astonished when those who spoke it showed culture and knowledge of the world.

The hostess provided me with a guide and pack-bearer, and I set out on foot across the country
towards Hundwyl. This guide, Jakob by name, made me imagine that I had come among a singular
people. He was so short that he could easily walk under my arm; his gait was something between
a roll and a limp, although he stoutly disclaimed lameness; he laughed whenever I spoke to
him, and answered in a voice which seemed the cuneiform character put into sound. First, there
was an explosion of gutturals, and then came a loud trumpet-tone, something like the Honk!
honk! of wild geese. Yet, when he placed his squat figure behind a tavern table, and looked
at me quietly with his mouth shut, he was both handsome and distinguished in appearance. We
walked two miles together before I guessed how to unravel his speech. It is almost as difficult
to learn a dialect as a new language, and but for the key which the Alemannic gave me, I should
have been utterly at sea. Who, for instance, could ever guess that a' Ma' g'si, pronounced
"amaxi" (the x representing a desperate guttural), really stands for einen Mann gewesen?

The road was lively with country people, many of whom were travelling in our own direction.
Those we met invariably addressed us with "God greet you!" or "Guät-ti!" which it was easy
to translate into "Good day!" Some of the men were brilliant in scarlet jackets, with double
rows of square silver buttons, and carried swords under their arms; they were bound for the
Landsgemeinde, whither the law of the Middle Ages still obliges them to go armed. When I asked
Jakob if he would accompany me as far as Hundwyl, he answered, "I can't; I daren't go there
without a black dress, and my sword, and a cylinder hat."

The wild Tobels, opening downward to the Lake of Constance, which now shimmered afar through
the gaps, were left behind us, and we passed westward along a broken, irregular valley. The
vivid turf was sown with all the flowers of spring,--primrose, violet, buttercup, anemone,
and veronica,--faint, but sweetest-odored, and the heralds of spring in all lands. So I gave
little heed to the weird lines of cloud, twisting through and between the severed pyramids
of the Sentis, as if weaving the woof of storms. The scenery was entirely lovely, and so novel
in its population and the labor which, in the long course of time, had effaced its own hard
traces, turning the mountains into lifted lawns and parks of human delight, that my own slow
feet carried me through it too rapidly. We must have passed a slight water-shed somewhere,
though I observed none; for the road gradually fell towards another region of deeply cloven
Tobels, with snowy mountains beyond. The green of the landscape was so brilliant and uniform,
under the cold gray sky, that it almost destroyed the perspective, which rather depended on
the houses and the scattered woods of fir.

On a ridge, overlooking all this region, was the large village of Teufen, nearly as grand as
Trogen in its architecture. Here Jakob, whose service went no further, conducted me to the
"Pike" inn, and begged the landlady to furnish me with "a' Ma'" in his place. We had refreshments
together, and took leave with many shakings of the hand and mutual wishes of good luck. The
successor was an old fellow of seventy, who had been a soldier in Holland, and who with proper
exertion could make his speech intelligible. The people nowhere inquired after my business
or nationality. When the guide made the latter known, they almost invariably said, "But, of
course, you were born in Appenzell?" The idea of a traveller coming among them, at least during
this season of the year, did not enter their heads. In Teufen, the large and handsome houses,
the church and schools, led me, foolishly, to hope for a less barbarous dialect; but no, it
was the same thing everywhere.

The men in black, with swords under their arms, increased in number as we left the village.
They were probably from the farthest parts of the Canton, and were thus abridging the morrow's
journey. The most of them, however, turned aside from the road, and made their way to one farm-house
or another. I was tempted to follow their example, as I feared that the little village of Hundwyl
would be crowded. But there was still time to claim private hospitality, even if this should
be the case, so we marched steadily down the valley. The Sitter, a stream fed by the Sentis,
now roared below us, between high, rocky walls, which are spanned by an iron bridge, two hundred
feet above the water. The roads of Outer-Rhoden, built and kept in order by the people, are
most admirable. This little population of forty-eight thousand souls has within the last fifteen
years expended seven hundred thousand dollars on means of communication. Since the people govern
themselves, and regulate their expenses, and consequently their taxation, their willingness
to bear such a burden is a lesson to other lands.

After crossing the airy bridge, our road climbed along the opposite side of the Tobel, to a
village on a ridge thrust out from the foot of the Hundwyl Alp, beyond which we lost sight
of Teufen and the beautiful valley of the Sitter. We were now in the valley of the Urnäsch,
and a walk of two miles more brought us to the village of Hundwyl. I was encouraged, on approaching
the little place, by seeing none except the usual signs of occupation. There was a great new
tank before the fountain, and two or three fellows in scarlet vests were filling their portable
tubs for the evening's supply; a few children came to the doors to stare at me, but there was
no sign that any other stranger had arrived.

"I'll take you to the Crown," said the guide; "all the Landamänner will be there in the morning,
and the music; and you'll see what our Appenzell government is." The landlady gave me a welcome,
and the promise of a lodging, whereupon I sat down in peace, received the greetings of all
the members of the family, as they came and went, and made myself familiar with their habits.
There was only one other guest in the house,--a man of dignified face and intellectual head,
who carried a sword tied up with an umbrella, and must be, I supposed, one of the chief officials.
He had so much the air of a reformer or a philosopher, that the members of a certain small
faction at home might have taken him for their beloved W. P.; others might have detected in
him a resemblance to that true philanthropist and gentleman, W. L. G.; and the believers in
the divinity of slavery would have accepted him as Bishop ----. As no introductions are required
in Appenzell, I addressed myself to him, hoping to open a profitable acquaintance; but it was
worse than Coleridge's experience with the lover of dumplings. His sentiments may have been
elevated and refined, for aught I knew, but what were they? My trumpeter Jakob was more intelligible
than he; his upper teeth were gone, and the mutilated words were mashed out of all remaining
shape against his gums. Then he had the singular habit of ejaculating the word Ja! (Yes!) in
three different ways, after answering each of my questions. First, a decided, confirmatory
Ja! then a pause, followed by a slow, interrogative Ja? as if it were the echo of some mental
doubt; and finally, after a much longer pause, a profoundly melancholy, desponding, conclusive
Ja-a-a! sighed forth from the very bottom of his lungs. Even when I only said, "Good morning!"
the next day, these ejaculations followed, in the same order of succession.

One may find a counterpart to this habit in the Wa'al of the Yankee, except that the latter
never is, nor could it well be, so depressing to hear as the Ja of Appenzell.

In the evening a dozen persons gathered around one of the long tables, and drank a pale, weak
cider, made of apples and pears, and called "Most." I gave to one, with whom I found I could
converse most easily, a glass of red wine, whereupon he said, "It is very impudent in me to
take it."

Upon asking the same person how it was that I could understand him so much more readily than
the others, he answered, "O, I can talk the written language when I try, but these others can't."

"Here," said I, pointing to the philosopher, "is one who is quite incomprehensible."

"So he is to me."

They were all anxious to know whether our American troubles were nearly over; whether the President
had the power to do further harm (he had too much power, they all thought); and whether our
Congress could carry out its plan of reconstruction. Lincoln, they said, was the best man we
ever had; when the play of "Lincoln's Death" was performed in the theatre at St. Gall, a great
many Appenzellers hired omnibuses and went down from the mountains to see it.

I was aroused at daybreak by the chiming of bells, and soon afterwards muskets began to crack,
near and far. Then there were noises all over the house, and presently what seemed to be a
procession of horses or elephants began to thunder up and down the wooden stairs. In vain I
tried to snatch the last and best morning nap; there was no end to the racket. So I arose,
dressed, and went forth to observe. The inn was already transformed, from top to bottom, into
a vast booth for meat and drink. Bedding and all other furniture had disappeared; every room,
and even the open hall on each story, was filled with tables, benches, and chairs. My friend
of the previous evening, who was going about with a white apron on and sleeves rolled up, said
to me: "I am to be one of the waiters to-day. We have already made places for six hundred."

There were at least a dozen other amateur waiters on hand and busy. The landlord wore a leathern
apron, and went from room to room, blowing into the hole of a wooden top which he carried in
his hand, as if thereby to collect his ideas. A barrel of red and a barrel of white wine stood
on trestles in the guests' room, and they were already filling the schoppins by hundreds and
ranging them on shelves,--honestly filling, not as lager-bier is filled in New York, one third
foam, but waiting until the froth subsided, and then pouring to the very brim. In the kitchen
there were three fires blazing, stacks of Bratwurst on the tables, great kettles for the sour-krout
and potatoes, and eggs, lettuce, and other finer viands, for the dignitaries, on the shelves.
"Good morning," said the landlady, as I looked into this sanctuary, "you see we are ready for
them."

While I was taking my coffee, the landlord called the waiters together, gave each a bag of
small money for change, and then delivered a short, practical address concerning their duties
for the day,--who were to be trusted and who not, how to keep order and prevent impatience,
and, above all, how to preserve a proper circulation, in order that the greatest possible number
of persons might be entertained. He closed with: "Once again, take notice and don't forget,
every one of you,--Most 10 rappen (2 cents), bread 10, Wurst 15, tongue 10, wine 25 and 40," etc.

In the village there were signs of preparation, but not a dozen strangers had arrived. Wooden
booths had been built against some of the houses, and the owners thereof were arranging their
stores of gingerbread and coarse confectionery; on the open, grassy square, in front of the
parsonage, stood a large platform, with a handsome railing around it, but the green slope of
the hill in front was as deserted as an Alpine pasture. Looking westward over the valley, however,
I could already see dark figures moving along the distant paths. The morning was overcast,
but the Hundwyl Alp, streaked with snow, stood clear, and there was a prospect of good weather
for the important day. As I loitered about the village, talking with the people, who, busy
as they were, always found time for a friendly word, the movement in the landscape increased.
Out of fir-woods, and over the ridges and out of the foldings of the hills, came the Appenzellers,
growing into groups, and then into lines, until steady processions began to enter Hundwyl by
every road. Every man was dressed in black, with a rusty stove-pipe hat on his head, and a
sword and umbrella in his hand or under his arm.

From time to time the church bells chimed; a brass band played the old melodies of the Canton;
on each side of the governing Landamman's place on the platform stood a huge two-handed sword,
centuries old, and the temper of the gathering crowd became earnest and solemn. Six old men,
armed with pikes, walked about with an air of importance: their duty was to preserve order,
but they had nothing to do. Policeman other than these, or soldier, was not to be seen; each
man was a part of the government, and felt his responsibility. Carriages, light carts, and
hay wagons, the latter filled with patriotic singers, now began to arrive, and I took my way
to the Crown, in order to witness the arrival of the members of the Council.

In order to make the proceedings of the day more intelligible, I must first briefly sketch
certain features of this little democracy, which it possesses in common with three other mountain
Cantons,--the primitive forms which the republican principle assumed in Switzerland. In the
first place the government is only representative so far as is required for its permanent,
practical operation. The highest power in the land is the Landsgemeinde, or General Assembly
of the People, by whom the members of the Executive Council are elected, and who alone can
change, adopt, or abolish any law. All citizens above the age of eighteen, and all other Swiss
citizens after a year's residence in the Canton, are not only allowed, but required, to attend
the Landsgemeinde. There is a penalty for non-attendance. Outer-Rhoden contains forty-eight
thousand inhabitants, of whom eleven thousand are under obligations to be present and vote,
from beginning to end of the deliberations.

In Glarus and Unterwalden, where the population is smaller, the right of discussion is still
retained by these assemblies, but in Appenzell it has been found expedient to abolish it. Any
change in the law, however, is first discussed in public meetings in the several communities,
then put into form by the Council, published, read from all the pulpits for a month previous
to the coming together of the Landsgemeinde, and then voted upon. But if the Council refuses
to act upon the suggestion of any citizen whomsoever, and he honestly considers the matter
one of importance, he is allowed to propose it directly to the people, provided he do so briefly
and in an orderly manner. The Council, which may be called the executive power, consists of
the governing Landamman and six associates, one of whom has the functions of treasurer, another
of military commander,--in fact, a ministry on a small scale. The service of the persons elected
to the Council is obligatory, and they receive no salaries. There is, it is true, a secondary
Council, composed of the first, and representatives of the communities, one for every thousand
inhabitants, in order to administer more intelligently the various departments of education,
religion, justice, roads, the militia system, the poor, etc.; but the Assembly of the People
can at any time reject or reverse its action. All citizens are not only equal before the law,
but are assured liberty of conscience, of speech, and of labor. The right of support only belongs
to those who are born citizens of the Canton. The old restriction of the Heimathsrecht,--the
claim to be supported at the expense of the community in case of need,--narrow and illiberal
as it seems to us, prevails all over Switzerland. In Appenzell a stranger can only acquire
the right, which is really the right of citizenship, by paying twelve hundred francs into the
cantonal treasury.

The governing Landamman is elected for two years, but the other members of the Council may
be re-elected from year to year, as often as the people see fit. The obligation to serve, therefore,
may sometimes seriously incommode the person chosen; he cannot resign, and his only chance
of escape lies in leaving the Canton temporarily, and publishing his intention of quitting
it altogether in case the people refuse to release him from office! This year, it happened
that two members of the Council had already taken this step, while three others had appealed
to the people not to re-elect them. The Landsgemeinde at Hundwyl was to decide upon all these
applications, and therefore promised to be of more than usual interest. The people had had
time to consider the matter, and, it was supposed, had generally made up their minds; yet I
found no one willing to give me a hint of their action in advance.

The two remaining members presently made their appearance, accompanied by the Chancellor, to
whom I was recommended. The latter kindly offered to accompany me to the parsonage, the windows
of which, directly in the rear of the platform, would enable me to hear, as well as see, the
proceedings. The clergyman, who was preparing for the service which precedes the opening of
the Landsgemeinde, showed me the nail upon which hung the key of the study, and gave me liberty
to take possession at any time. The clock now struck nine, and a solemn peal of bells announced
the time of service. A little procession formed in front of the inn; first the music, then
the clergyman and the few members of the government, bareheaded, and followed by the two Weibels
(apparitors), who wore long mantles, the right half white and the left half black. The old
pikemen walked on either side. The people uncovered as they took their way around the church
to the chancel door; then as many as could be accommodated entered at the front.

I entered with them, taking my place on the men's side,--the sexes being divided, as is usual
in Germany. After the hymn, in which boys' voices were charmingly heard, and the prayer, the
clergyman took a text from Corinthians, and proceeded to preach a good, sound political sermon,
which, nevertheless, did not in the least shock the honest piety of his hearers. I noticed
with surprise that most of the men put on their hats at the close of the prayer. Only once
did they remove them afterwards,--when the clergyman, after describing the duties before them,
and the evils and difficulties which beset every good work, suddenly said, "Let us pray to
God to help and direct us!" and interpolated a short prayer in the midst of his sermon. The
effect was all the more impressive, because, though so unexpected, it was entirely simple and
natural. These democrats of Appenzell have not yet made the American discovery that pulpits
are profaned by any utterance of national sentiment, or any application of Christian doctrine
to politics. They even hold their municipal elections in the churches, and consider that the
act of voting is thereby solemnized, not that the holy building is desecrated! But then, you
will say, this is the democracy of the Middle Ages.

When the service was over, I could scarcely make my way through the throng which had meanwhile
collected. The sun had come out hot above the Hundwyl Alp, and turned the sides of the valley
into slopes of dazzling sheen. Already every table in the inns was filled, every window crowded
with heads, the square a dark mass of voters of all ages and classes, lawyers and clergymen
being packed together with grooms and brown Alpine herdsmen; and, after the government had
been solemnly escorted to its private chamber, four musicians in antique costume announced,
with drum and fife, the speedy opening of the Assembly. But first came the singing societies
of Herisau, and forced their way into the centre of the throng, where they sang, simply yet
grandly, the songs of Appenzell. The people listened with silent satisfaction; not a man seemed
to think of applauding.

I took my place in the pastor's study, and inspected the crowd. On the steep slope of the village
square and the rising field beyond, more than ten thousand men were gathered, packed as closely
as they could stand. The law requires them to appear armed and "respectably dressed." The short
swords, very much like our marine cutlasses, which they carried, were intended for show rather
than service. Very few wore them: sometimes they were tied up with umbrellas, but generally
carried loose in the hand or under the arm. The rich manufacturers of Trogen and Herisau and
Teufen had belts and silver-mounted dress-swords. With scarce an exception, every man was habited
in black, and wore a stove-pipe hat, but the latter was in most cases brown and battered. Both
circumstances were thus explained to me: as the people vote with the uplifted hand, the hat
must be of a dark color, as a background, to bring out the hands more distinctly; then, since
rain would spoil a good hat (and it rains much at this season), they generally take an old
one. I could now understand the advertisements of "secondhand cylinder hats for sale," which
I had noticed, the day before, in the newspapers of the Canton. The slope of the hill was such
that the hats of the lower ranks concealed the faces of those immediately behind, and the assembly
was the darkest and densest I ever beheld. Here and there the top of a scarlet waistcoat flashed
out of the cloud with astonishing brilliancy.

With solemn music, and attended by the apparitors, in their two-colored mantles, and the ancient
pikemen, the few officials ascended the platform. The chief of the two Landammänner present
took his station in front, between the two-handed swords, and began to address the assembly.
Suddenly a dark cloud seemed to roll away from the faces of the people; commencing in front
of the platform, and spreading rapidly to the edges of the compact throng, the hats disappeared,
and the ten thousand faces, in the full light of the sun, blended into a ruddy mass. But no;
each head retained its separate character, and the most surprising circumstance of the scene
was the distinctness with which each human being held fast to his individuality in the multitude.
Nature has drawn no object with so firm a hand, nor painted it with such tenacious clearness
of color, as the face of man. The inverted crescent of sharp light had a different curve on
each individual brow before me; the little illuminated dot on the end of the nose under it
hinted at the form of the nostrils in shadow. As the hats had before concealed the faces, so
now each face was relieved against the breast of the man beyond, and in front of me were thousands
of heads to be seen, touching each other like so many ovals drawn on a dark plane.

The address was neither so brief nor so practical as it might have been. Earnest, well meant,
and apparently well received, there was nevertheless much in it which the plain, semi-educated
weavers and Alpadores in the assembly could not possibly have comprehended; as, for instance,
"May a garland of confidence be twined around your deliberations!" At the close, the speaker
said, "Let us pray!" and for a few moments there were bowed heads and utter silence. The first
business was the financial report for the year, which had been printed and distributed among
the people weeks before. They were now asked whether they would appoint a commission to test
its accuracy, but they unanimously declined to do so. The question was put by one of the apparitors,
who first removed his cocked hat, and cried, in a tremendous voice, "Faithful and beloved fellow-citizens,
and brethren of the Union!"

Now came the question of releasing the tired Landammänner of the previous year from office.
The first application in order was that of the governing Landamman, Dr. Zürcher. The people
voted directly thereupon; there was a strong division of sentiment, but the majority allowed
him to resign. His place was therefore to be filled at once. The names of candidates were called
out by the crowd. There were six in all; and as both the members of the Council were among
them, the latter summoned six well-known citizens upon the platform, to decide the election.
The first vote reduced the number of candidates to two, and the voting was then repeated until
one of these received an undoubted majority. Dr. Roth, of Teufen, was the fortunate man. As
soon as the decision was announced, several swords were held up in the crowd to indicate where
the new governor was to be found. The musicians and pikemen made a lane to him through the
multitude, and he was conducted to the platform with the sound of fife and drum. He at once
took his place between the swords, and made a brief address, which the people heard with uncovered
heads. He did not yet, however, assume the black silk mantle which belongs to his office. He
was a man of good presence, prompt, and self-possessed in manner, and conducted the business
of the day very successfully.

The election of the remaining members occupied much more time. All the five applicants were
released from service, and with scarcely a dissenting hand: wherein, I thought, the people
showed very good sense. The case of one of these officials, Herr Euler, was rather hard. He
was the Landessäckelmeister (Treasurer), and the law makes him personally responsible for every
farthing which passes through his hands. Having, with the consent of the Council, invested
thirty thousand francs in a banking-house at Rheineck, the failure of the house obliged him
to pay this sum out of his own pocket. He did so, and then made preparations to leave the Canton
in case his resignation was not accepted.

For most of the places from ten to fourteen candidates were named, and when these were reduced
to two, nearly equally balanced in popular favor, the voting became very spirited. The apparitor,
who was chosen on account of his strength of voice (the candidates for that office must be
tested in this respect), had hard work that day. The same formula must be repeated before every
vote, in this wise: "Herr Landamman, gentlemen, faithful and beloved fellow-citizens and brethren
of the Union, if it seems good to you to choose so-and-so as your treasurer for the coming
year, so lift up your hands!" Then, all over the dark mass, thousands of hands flew into the
sunshine, rested a moment, and gradually sank with a fluttering motion, which made me think
of leaves flying from a hillside forest in the autumn winds. As each election was decided,
and the choice was announced, swords were lifted to show the location of the new official in
the crowd, and he was then brought upon the platform with fife and drum. Nearly two hours elapsed
before the gaps were filled, and the government was again complete.

Then followed the election of judges for the judicial districts, which, in most cases, were
almost unanimous re-elections. These are repeated from year to year, so long as the people
are satisfied. Nearly all the citizens of Outer-Rhoden were before me; I could distinctly see
three fourths of their faces, and I detected no expression except that of a grave, conscientious
interest in the proceedings. Their patience was remarkable. Closely packed, man against man,
in the hot, still sunshine, they stood quietly for nearly three hours, and voted upwards of
two hundred and seven times before the business of the day was completed. A few old men on
the edges of the crowd slipped away for a quarter of an hour, in order, as one of them told
me, "to keep their stomachs from giving way entirely," and some of the younger fellows took
a schoppin of Most for the same purpose; but they generally returned and resumed their places
as soon as refreshed.

The close of the Landsgemeinde was one of the most impressive spectacles I ever witnessed.
When the elections were over, and no further duty remained, the Parson Etter of Hundwyl ascended
the platform. The governing Landamman assumed his black mantle of office, and, after a brief
prayer, took the oath of inauguration from the clergyman. He swore to further the prosperity
and honor of the land, to ward off misfortune from it, to uphold the Constitution and laws,
to protect the widows and orphans, and to secure the equal rights of all, nor through favor,
hostility, gifts, or promises to be turned aside from doing the same. The clergyman repeated
the oath sentence by sentence, both holding up the oath-fingers of the right hand, the people
looking on silent and uncovered.

The governing Landamman now turned to the assembly, and read them their oath, that they likewise
should further the honor and prosperity of the land, preserve its freedom and its equal rights,
obey the laws, protect the Council and the judges, take no gift or favor from any prince or
potentate, and that each one should accept and perform, to the best of his ability, any service
to which he might be chosen. After this had been read, the Landamman lifted his right hand,
with the oath-fingers extended; his colleagues on the platform, and every man of the ten or
eleven thousand present, did the same. The silence was so profound that the chirp of a bird
on the hillside took entire possession of the air. Then the Landamman slowly and solemnly spoke
these words: "I have well understood that--which has been read to me;--I will always and exactly
observe it,--faithfully and without reservation,--so truly as I wish and pray--that God help
me!" At each pause, the same words were repeated by every man, in a low, subdued tone. The
hush was else so complete, the words were spoken with such measured firmness, that I caught
each as it came, not as from the lips of men, but from a vast, supernatural murmur in the air.
The effect was indescribable. Far off on the horizon was the white vision of an Alp, but all
the hidden majesty of those supreme mountains was nothing to the scene before me. When the
last words had been spoken, the hands sank slowly, and the crowd stood a moment locked together,
with grave faces and gleaming eyes, until the spirit that had descended upon them passed. Then
they dissolved; the Landsgemeinde was over.

In my inn, I should think more than the expected six hundred had found place. From garret to
cellar, every corner was occupied; bread, wine, and steamy dishes passed in a steady whirl
from kitchen and tap-room into all the roaring chambers. In the other inns it was the same,
and many took their drink and provender in the open air. I met my philosopher of the previous
evening, who said, "Now, what do you think of our Landsgemeinde?" and followed my answer with
his three Ja's, the last a more desponding sigh than ever. Since the business was over, I judged
that the people would be less reserved,--which, indeed, was the case. Nearly all with whom
I spoke expressed their satisfaction with the day's work. I walked through the crowds in all
directions, vainly seeking for personal beauty. There were few women present, but a handsome
man is only less beautiful than a beautiful woman, and I like to look at the former when the
latter is absent. I was surprised at the great proportion of under-sized men; only weaving,
in close rooms, for several generations, could have produced so many squat bodies and short
legs. The Appenzellers are neither a handsome nor a picturesque race, and their language harmonizes
with their features; but I learned, during that day at Hundwyl, to like and to respect them.

Pastor Etter insisted on my dining with him; two younger clergymen were also guests, and my
friend the Chancellor Engwiller came to make further kind offers of service. The people of
each parish, I learned, elect their own pastor, and pay him his salary. In municipal matters
the same democratic system prevails as in the cantonal government. Education is well provided
for, and the morals of the community are watched and guarded by a committee consisting of the
pastor and two officials elected by the people. Outer-Rhoden is almost exclusively Protestant,
while Inner-Rhoden--the mountain region around the Sentis--is Catholic. Although thus geographically
and politically connected, there was formerly little intercourse between the inhabitants of
the two parts of the Canton, owing to their religious differences; but now they come together
in a friendly way, and are beginning to intermarry.

After dinner, the officials departed in carriages, to the sound of trumpets, and thousands
of the people followed. Again the roads and paths leading away over the green hills were dark
with lines of pedestrians; but a number of those whose homes lay nearest to Hundwyl lingered
to drink and gossip out the day. A group of herdsmen, over whose brown faces the high stove-pipe
hat looked doubly absurd, gathered in a ring, and while one of them yodelled the Ranz des Vaches
of Appenzell, the others made an accompaniment with their voices, imitating the sound of cow-bells.
They were lusty, jolly fellows, and their songs hardly came to an end. I saw one man who might
be considered as positively drunk, but no other who was more than affectionately and socially
excited. Towards sunset they all dropped off, and when the twilight settled down heavy, and
threatening rain, there was no stranger but myself in the little village. "I have done tolerably
well," said the landlord, "but I can't count my gains until day after to-morrow, when the scores
run up to-day must be paid off." Considering that in my own bill lodging was set down at six,
and breakfast at twelve cents, even the fifteen hundred guests whom he entertained during the
day could not have given him a very splendid profit.

Taking a weaver of the place as guide, I set off early the next morning for the village of
Appenzell, the capital of Inner-Rhoden. The way led me back into the valley of the Sitter,
thence up towards the Sentis Alp, winding around and over a multitude of hills. The same smooth,
even, velvety carpet of grass was spread upon the landscape, covering every undulation of the
surface, except where the rocks had frayed themselves through. There is no greener land upon
the earth. The grass, from centuries of cultivation, has become so rich and nutritious, that
the inhabitants can no longer spare even a little patch of ground for a vegetable garden, for
the reason that the same space produces more profit in hay. The green comes up to their very
doors, and they grudge even the foot-paths which connect them with their neighbors. Their vegetables
are brought up from the lower valleys of Thurgau. The first mowing had commenced at the time
of my visit, and the farmers were employing irrigation and manure to bring on the second crop.
By this means they are enabled to mow the same fields every five or six weeks. The process
gives the whole region a smoothness, a mellow splendor of color, such as I never saw elsewhere,
not even in England.

A walk of two hours through such scenery brought me out of the Sitter Tobel, and in sight of
the little Alpine basin in which lies Appenzell. It was raining slowly and dismally, and the
broken, snow-crowned peaks of the Kamor and the Hohe Kasten stood like livid spectres of mountains
against the stormy sky. I made haste to reach the compact, picturesque little town, and shelter
myself in an inn, where a landlady with rippled golden hair and features like one of Dante
Rossetti's women, offered me trout for dinner. Out of the back window I looked for the shattered
summits of the Sentis, which rise five thousand feet above the valley, but they were invisible.
The vertical walls of the Ebenalp, in which are the grotto and chapel of Wildkirchli, towered
over the nearer hills, and I saw with regret that they were still above the snow line. It was
impossible to penetrate much farther without better weather; but I decided, while enjoying
my trout, to make another trial,--to take the road to Urnäsch, and thence pass westward into
the renowned valley of the Toggenburg.

The people of Inner-Rhoden are the most picturesque of the Appenzellers. The men wear a round
skull-cap of leather, sometimes brilliantly embroidered, a jacket of coarse drilling, drawn
on over the head, and occasionally knee-breeches. Early in May the herdsmen leave their winter
homes in the valleys and go with their cattle to the Matten, or lofty mountain pastures. The
most intelligent cows, selected as leaders for the herd, march in advance, with enormous bells,
sometimes a foot in diameter, suspended to their necks by bands of embroidered leather; then
follow the others, and the bull, who, singularly enough, carries the milking-pail, garlanded
with flowers, between his horns, brings up the rear. The Alpadores are in their finest Sunday
costume, and the sound of yodel-songs--the very voice of Alpine landscapes--echoes from every
hill. Such a picture as this, under the cloudless blue of a fortunate May day, makes the heart
of the Appenzeller light. He goes joyously up to his summer labor, and makes his herb-cheese
on the heights, while his wife weaves and embroiders muslin in the valley until his return.

In the afternoon I set out for Urnäsch, with a bright boy as guide. Hot gleams of sunshine
now and then struck like fire across the green mountains, and the Sentis partly unveiled his
stubborn forehead of rock. Behind him, however, lowered inky thunder-clouds, and long before
the afternoon's journey was made it was raining below and snowing aloft. The scenery grew more
broken and abrupt the farther I penetrated into the country, but it was everywhere as thickly
peopled and as wonderfully cultivated. At Gonten, there is a large building for the whey-cure
of overfed people of the world. A great many such, I was told, come to Appenzell for the summer.
Many of the persons we met not only said, "God greet you!" but immediately added, "Adieu!"--like
the Salve et vale! of classical times.

Beyond Gonten the road dropped into a wild ravine, the continual windings of which rendered
it very attractive. I found enough to admire in every farm-house by the wayside, with its warm
wood-color, its quaint projecting balconies, and coat of shingle mail. When the ravine opened,
and the deep valley of Urnäsch, before me, appeared between cloven heights of snow, disclosing
six or eight square miles of perfect emerald, over which the village is scattered, I was fully
repaid for having pressed farther into the heart of the land. There were still two hours until
night, and I might have gone on to the Rossfall,--a cascade three or four miles higher up the
valley,--but the clouds were threatening, and the distant mountain-sides already dim under
the rain.

At the village inn I found several herdsmen and mechanics, each with a bottle of Rheinthaler
wine before him. They were ready and willing to give me all the information I needed. In order
to reach the Toggenburg, they said, I must go over the Krätzernwald. It was sometimes a dangerous
journey; the snow was many cubits deep, and at this time of the year it was frequently so soft
that a man would sink to his hips. To-day, however, there had been thunder, and after thunder
the snow is always hard-packed, so that you can walk on it; but to cross the Krätzernwald without
a guide,--never! For two hours you were in a wild forest, not a house, nor even a 'Sennhütt'
(herdsman's cabin) to be seen, and no proper path, but a clambering hither and thither, in
snow and mud; with this weather,--yes, one could get into Toggenburg that way, they said, but
not alone, and only because there had been thunder on the mountains. In such weather the scenery
is not only shrouded, but the people are shut up in their homes,--wherefore further travel
would not have been repaid. I had already seen the greater part of the little land, and so
gave up my thwarted plans the more cheerfully. When the post-omnibus for Herisau came to the
inn door, I took my seat therein, saying, like Schiller's Sennbub', "Ihr Matten, lebtwohl,
Ihr sonnigen Weiden!"

The country became softer and lovelier as the road gradually fell towards Herisau, which is
the richest and stateliest town of the Canton. I saw little of it except the hospitable home
of my friend the Chancellor, for we had brought the Alpine weather with us. The architecture
of the place, nevertheless, is charming, the town being composed of country-houses, balconied
and shingled, and set down together in the most irregular way, every street shooting off at
a different angle. A mile beyond, I reached the edge of the mountain region, and again looked
down upon the prosperous valley of St. Gall. Below me was the railway, and as I sped towards
Zurich that afternoon, the top of the Sentis, piercing through a mass of dark rain-clouds,
was my last glimpse of the Little Land of Appenzell.

THE LOST GENIUS.

    A giant came to me, when I was young,
            My instant will to ask,--
    My earthly Servant, from the earth he sprung
            Eager for any task!

    "What wilt thou, O my Master?" he began;
            "Whatever can be," I.
    "Say but thy wish,--whate'er thou wilt I can,"
            The strong Slave made reply.

    "Enter the earth and bring its riches forth,
            For pearls explore the sea.'
    He brought from East and West, and South and North,
            All treasures back to me!

    "Build me a palace wherein I may dwell."
            "Awake, and see it done,"
    Spake his great voice at dawn. O miracle,
            That glittered in the sun!

    "Find me the princess fit for my embrace,
            The vision of my breast,--
    For her search every clime and every race."
            My yearning arms were blessed!

    "Get me all knowledge." Sages with their lore,
            And poets with their songs,
    Crowded my palace halls at every door,
            In mute obedient throngs!

    "Now bring me wisdom." Long ago he went;
            (The cold task harder seems;)
    He did not hasten with the last content,--
            The rest, meanwhile, were dreams!

    Houseless and poor, on many a trackless road,
            Without a guide, I found
    A white-haired phantom with the world his load
            Bending him to the ground!

    "I bring thee wisdom, Master." Is it he,
            I marvelled then, in sooth?
    "Thy palace-builder, beauty-seeker see!"
            I saw the Ghost of Youth!

CINCINNATI.

The French possessors of the Western country used to call the Ohio the Beautiful River; and
they might well think it beautiful who came into it from the flat-shored, mountainous Mississippi,
and found themselves winding about among lofty, steep, and picturesque hills, covered with
foliage, and fringed at the bottom with a strip of brilliant grass. But travellers from the
Atlantic States, accustomed as they are to the clear, sparkling waters and to the brimming
fulness of such rivers as the James, the Delaware, and the Hudson, do not at once perceive
the fitness of the old French name, La Belle Rivière. The water of the Ohio is yellow, and
there is usually a wide slope of yellow earth on each side of the stream, from which the water
has receded, and over which it will flow again at the next "rise." It is always rising or falling.
As at the South the item of most interest in the newspapers is the price of cotton, and in
New York the price of gold, so in the West the special duty of the news-gatherer is to keep
the public advised of the depth of the rivers. The Ohio, during the rainy seasons, is forty
feet deeper than it is during the dry. Between the notch which marks the lowest point to which
the river has ever fallen at Cincinnati and that which records the point of its highest rise,
the distance is sixty-four feet. If our Eastern rivers were capable of such vacillation as
this, our large cities would go under once or twice a year.

In truth, those great and famous Western rivers are ditches dug by Nature as part of the drainage
system of the continent,--mere means of carrying off the surplus water when it rains. At the
East, the water plays a part in the life, in the pleasures, in the imagination and memories
of the people. We go down to Coney Island of a hot afternoon; we take a trip to Cape May; we
sail in Boston Harbor; we go upon moonlight excursions, attended by a cotillon band; we spend
a day at the fishing banks; we go up the Erie Railroad for a week's trout-fishing; we own a
share in a small schooner; we have yacht clubs and boat races; we build villas which command
a water view. There is little of this in the Western country; for the rivers are not very inviting,
and the great lakes are dangerous. They tried yachting at Chicago a few years ago, but on the
experimental trip a squall capsized the vessel, and the crew had the ignominy of spending several
hours upon the keel, from which a passing craft rescued them. Then, as to excursions, there
is upon the lakes the deadly peril of sea-sickness; upon the rivers there is no great relief
from the heat; and upon neither are there convenient places to visit. All you can do is, to
go a certain distance, turn round, and come back; which is a flat, uncheering, pointless sort
of thing. Upon the whole, therefore, the Western waters contribute little to the relief and
enjoyment of the people who live near them. We noticed at the large town of Erie, some years
ago, that not one house had been placed so as to afford its inmates a view of the lake, though
the shores offered most convenient sites; nor did the people ever come down to see the lake,
apparently, as there was no path worn upon the grassy bluff overlooking it.

The Ohio River has another inconvenience. The bottom-land, as it is called, between the water's
edge and the hills, is generally low and narrow. Nowhere is there room for a large city; nor
can the hills be dug away except by paring down a great part of Ohio and Kentucky. When the
traveller has climbed to the top of those winding mountains, he has only reached the average
summit of the country; for it is not the banks of the river that are high, but the river itself
which is low. It is an error to say that the Ohio is a river with lofty banks. Those continuous
hills, around which this river winds and curls and bends and loops, are simply the hills of
the country through which the river had to find its way. We were astonished, in getting to
the top of Cincinnati, after a panting walk up a zigzag road, to discover that we had only
mounted to the summit of one billow in an ocean of hills.

There is always a reason why a city is just where it is. Nothing is more controlled by law
than the planting, the growth, and the decline of cities. Even the particular site is not a
thing of chance, as we can see in the sites of Paris, London, Constantinople, and every other
great city of the world. A town exists by supplying to the country about it the commodities
which the country cannot procure for itself. In the infancy of the Ohio settlements, when it
was still to be determined which of them would take the lead, the commodity most in request
and hardest to be obtained was safety; and it was Cincinnati that was soonest able to supply
this most universal object of desire. In December, 1788, fifteen or twenty men floated down
the Ohio among the masses of moving ice, and, landing upon the site of Cincinnati, built cabins,
and marked out a town. Matthias Denman of New Jersey had bought eight hundred acres of land
there, at fifteen-pence an acre, and this party of adventurers planted themselves upon it with
his assistance and in his interest. Jerseymen and Pennsylvanians were finding their way down
the Ohio, and founding settlements here and there, whenever a sufficient number of pioneers
could be gathered to defend themselves against the Indians. President Washington sent a few
companies of troops for their protection, and the great question was where those troops should
be posted. The major in command was at first disposed to establish them at North Bend; but
while he was selecting a place there for his fort, he fell in with a pair of brilliant black
eyes,--the property of one of the settler's wives. He paid such assiduous court to the lady,
that her husband deemed it best to remove his family to another settlement, and pitched upon
Cincinnati. The major then began to doubt whether, after all, North Bend was the proper place
for a military work, and deemed it best to examine Cincinnati first. He was delighted with
Cincinnati. He removed the troops thither, built a fort, and thus rendered the neighborhood
the safest spot below Pittsburg. This event was decisive: Cincinnati took the lead of the Ohio
towns, and kept it.

In all the history of Cincinnati, this is the only incident we have found that savors of the
romantic.

Those black eyes lured Major Doughty to the only site on the Ohio upon which one hundred thousand
people could conveniently live without climbing a very steep and high hill. It is also about
midway between the source of the river and its mouth; the Ohio being nine hundred and fifty-nine
miles long, and Cincinnati five hundred and one miles from the Mississippi. The city is nearly
the centre of the great valley of the Ohio; it is, indeed, exactly where it should be, and
exactly where the metropolis of the valley might have been even if Major Doughty had not been
susceptible to the charms of lovely woman. It is superfluous to say that Cincinnati is situated
on a "bend" of the Ohio, since the Ohio is nothing but bends, and anything that is situated
upon it must be upon a bend. This river employs itself continually in writing the letter S
upon the surface of the earth. At Cincinnati, the hills recede from the shore on each side
of the river about a mile and a half, leaving space enough for a large town, but not for the
great city of two hundred and fifty thousand inhabitants to which it has grown.

Cincinnati is an odd name for a town, whether we regard it as a genitive singular, or as a
nominative plural. The story goes, that the first settlers appointed a committee of one to
name the place. The gentleman selected for this duty had been a schoolmaster, and he brought
to bear upon the task all the learning appertaining to his former vocation. He desired to express
in the name of the future city the fact that it was situated opposite the mouth of the Licking
River. He was aware that ville was French for "city," that os was Latin for "mouth"; that anti
in composition could mean "opposite to"; and that the first letter of Licking was L. By combining
these various fragments of knowledge, he produced at length the word LOSANTIVILLE, which his
comrades accepted as the name of their little cluster of log huts, and by this name it appears
on some of the earliest maps of the Ohio. But the glory of the schoolmaster was short-lived.
When the village had attained the respectable age of fifteen months, General St. Clair visited
it on a tour of inspection, and laughed the name to scorn. Having laid out a county of which
this village was the only inhabited spot, he named the county Hamilton, and insisted upon calling
the village Cincinnati, after the society of which both himself and Colonel Hamilton were members.
In that summer of 1790 Cincinnati consisted of forty log cabins, two small frame houses, and
a fort garrisoned by a company or two of troops.

We sometimes speak of "the Western cities," as though the word "Western" was sufficiently descriptive,
and as though the cities west of the Alleghany Mountains were all alike. This is far from being
the case. Every city in the Western country, as well as every State, county, and neighborhood,
has a character of its own, derived chiefly from the people who settled it. Berlin is not more
different from Vienna, Lyons is not more different from Marseilles, Birmingham is not more
different from Liverpool, than Cincinnati is from Chicago or St. Louis; and all these differences
date back to the origin of those cities. The Ohio, formed by the junction of two Pennsylvania
rivers, is the natural western outlet for the redundant population of Pennsylvania and New
Jersey, and consequently the first twenty thousand inhabitants of Cincinnati were chiefly from
those States,--honest, plodding, saving Protestants, with less knowledge and less public spirit
than the people of New England. The Swedes, the Danes, the Germans, the Protestant Irish, who
poured into Pennsylvania and New Jersey in Franklin's time, attracted by the perfect toleration
established by William Penn, were excellent people; but they had not the activity of mind nor
the spiritual life of the English Puritans. Shrewd calculators and of indomitable industry,
they were more able to accumulate property than disposed to risk it in bold, far-reaching enterprises,
and took more pride in possessing than in displaying wealth,--in having a large barn than an
attractive residence. They were more certain to build a church than a school-house, and few
of them wanted anything of the book-pedler except an almanac. The descendants of such men founded
Cincinnati, and made it a thriving, bustling, dull, unintellectual place. Then came in a spice
of Yankees to enliven the mass, to introduce some quickening heresies, to promote schools,
to found libraries, to establish new manufactures and stimulate public improvements. That wondrous
tide of Germans followed that has made in each of the cities of the West a populous German
quarter,--a town within a town. Meanwhile, young men from the Southern States, in considerable
numbers, settled in Cincinnati, between whom and the daughters of the rich "Hunkers" of the
town marriages were frequent, and the families thus created were, from 1830 to 1861, the reigning
power in the city.

Perhaps there was no town of its size and wealth in Christendom which had less of the higher
intellectual life and less of an enlightened public spirit than Cincinnati before the war.
It had become exceedingly rich. Early in its career the great difficulty and expense of transporting
goods across the mountains and down the winding Ohio had forced the people into manufacturing,
and Cincinnati became the great workshop, as well as the exchange, of the vast and populous
valley of the Ohio. Its wealth was legitimately earned. It was Cincinnati which originated
and perfected the system which packs fifteen bushels of corn into a pig, and packs that pig
into a barrel, and sends him over the mountains and over the ocean to feed mankind. Cincinnati
imported or made nearly all that the people of three or four States could afford to buy, and
received from them nearly all that they could spare in return, and made a profit on both transactions.
This business, upon the whole, was done honestly and well. Immense fortunes were made. Nicholas
Longworth died worth twelve millions, and there are now in that young city sixty-four persons
whose estate is rated at a million dollars or more. But, with all this wealth and this talent
for business, the people of Cincinnati displayed little of that spirit of improvement which
has converted Chicago, in thirty years, from a quagmire into a beautiful city, and made it
accessible to all the people of the prairies. There was too much ballast, as it were, for so
little sail. People were intent on their own affairs, and were satisfied if their own business
prospered. Such a thing even as a popular lecture was rare, and a well-sustained course of
lectures was felt to be out of the question. Books of the higher kind were in little demand
(that is, little, considering the size and great wealth of the place); there was little taste
for art; few concerts were given, and there was no drama fit to entertain intellectual persons.
Cincinnati was the Old Hunkers' paradise. Separated from a Slave State only by a river one
third of a mile wide, with her leading families connected by marriage with those of Virginia,
Kentucky, and Maryland, and her business men having important relations with the South, there
was no city--not even Baltimore--that was more saturated with the spirit of Hunkerism,--that
horrid blending of vanity and avarice which made the Northern people equal sharers in the guilt
of slavery, while taking the lion's share of the profit. It was at Cincinnati, in 1836, that
a mob of most respectable citizens, having first "resolved" in public meeting that "Abolition
papers" should neither be "published nor distributed" in the town, broke into the office of
James G. Birney's "Philanthropist," and scattered the types, and threw the press into the river.
It was at Cincinnati, in 1841, that the authorities were compelled to fill the prisons with
negroes to protect them from massacre. Similar scenes have occurred in other cities, but violence
of this kind meant more at Cincinnati than in most places, for the people here have always
been noted for their orderly habits and their regard for law.

The war regenerated Cincinnati. We do not say began to regenerate it, because the word "regeneration"
means but the beginning of a new life. There were few of the leading families which did not
furnish to the Rebellion one adherent, and all men, of whatever class, were compelled to choose
between their country and its foes. The great mass of the people knew not a moment of hesitation,
and a tide of patriotic feeling set in which silenced, expelled, or converted the adherents
of the Rebellion. The old business relations with the South, so profitable and so corrupting,
were broken up, and Cincinnati found better occupation in supplying the government with gunboats
and military stores. The prestige of the old "aristocracy" was lost; its power was broken;
it no longer controlled elections, nor monopolized offices, nor lowered the tone of public
feeling. Cincinnati was born again,--began a new life. There is now prevalent among the rulers
of the city that noblest trait of freemen, that supreme virtue of the citizen,--PUBLIC SPIRIT;
the blessed fruits of which are already apparent, and which is about to render the city a true
metropolis to the valley of the Ohio, the fostering mother of all that aids and adorns civilization.

Cincinnati, like New York, is a cluster of towns and cities, bearing various names, and situated
in different States. Persons ambitious of municipal offices would do well to remove to this
place; since, within the limits of what is really Cincinnati, there are seven mayors, seven
boards of aldermen, seven distinct and completely organized cities. A citizen of New York might
well stand aghast at the announcement of such a fact as this, and only recover his consciousness
to try mentally an impossible sum in the double rule of three: If one mayor and corporation,
in a city of a million and a half of inhabitants, steal ten millions of dollars per annum,
how much will seven mayors and seven corporations "appropriate" in a city of three hundred
thousand inhabitants? The reader is excused from "doing" this hard sum, and we hasten to assure
him that Cincinnati is governed by and for her own citizens, who take the same care of the
public money as of their own private store. We looked into the Council Chamber of Cincinnati
one morning, and we can testify that the entire furniture of that apartment, though it is substantial
and sufficient, cost about as much as some single articles in the councilmen's room of the
New York City Hall,--say the clock, the chandelier, or the chairman's throne. The people of
Cincinnati are so primitive in their ideas, that they would regard the man who should steal
the public money as a baser thief than he who should merely pick a private pocket. They have
actually carried "this sort of thing" so far as to elect and re-elect as Mayor of the city
proper that honest, able, generous Republican, CHARLES F. WILSTACH, a member of the great publishing
house of Moore, Wilstach, and Baldwin,--a gentleman who, though justly proud of the confidence
of his fellow-citizens, and enjoying the honor they have conferred upon him, uses the entire
power, influence, and income of his office in promoting the higher welfare of the city. He
is the great patron of the Mechanics' Institute, which gave instruction last winter to two
hundred and fifty evening pupils in drawing, mathematics, and engineering, at three dollars
each for four months, besides affording them access to a library and pleasant rooms. Charles
Wilstach, in short, is what Mr. Joseph Hoxie would call "a Peter Cooper sort of man." Imagine
New York electing Peter Cooper mayor! It was like going back to the primitive ages,--to that
remote period when Benjamin Franklin was printer and public servant, and when Samuel Adams
served the State,--to see the Mayor of Cincinnati performing his full share of the labor of
conducting a business that employs a hundred and fifty persons, and yet punctual at his office
in the City Hall, and strictly attentive to its duties during five of the best hours of the day.

There are seven mayors about Cincinnati for the reasons following. On the southern bank of
the Ohio, opposite the city, many large manufactories have found convenient sites, and thus
the city of Covington has grown up, divided into two towns by the river Licking. Then there
are five clusters of villas in the suburbs of Cincinnati, over the hill, each of which has
deemed it best to organize itself into a city, in order to keep itself select and exclusive,
and to make its own little laws and regulations. The mayors and aldermen of these minute rural
villages are business men of Cincinnati, who drive in to their stores every morning, and home
again in the evening. Thus you may meet aldermen at every corner, and buy something in a store
from a mayor, and get his autograph at the end of a bill, without being aware of the honor
done you. No autographs are more valued in Cincinnati than the signatures of these municipal
magnates.

But let us look at the city. The river presents a novel and animated scene. On the Kentucky
shore lies Covington, dark and low, a mass of brick factories and tall chimneys, from which
the blackest smoke is always ascending, and spreading over the valley, and filling it with
smoke. Over Cincinnati, too, a dense cloud of smoke usually hangs, every chimney contributing
its quota to the mass. The universal use of the cheap bituminous coal (seventeen cents a bushel,--twenty-five
bushels to a ton) is making these Western cities almost as dingy as London. Smoke pervades
every house in Cincinnati, begrimes the carpets, blackens the curtains, soils the paint, and
worries the ladies. Housekeepers assured us that the all-pervading smoke nearly doubles the
labor of keeping a house tolerably clean, and absolutely prevents the spotless cleanliness
of a Boston or Philadelphia house. A lady who wears light-colored garments, ribbons, or gloves
in Cincinnati must be either very young, very rich, or very extravagant: ladies of good sense
or experience never think of wearing them. Clean hearts abound in Cincinnati, but not clean
hands. The smoke deposits upon all surfaces a fine soot, especially upon men's woollen clothes,
so that a man cannot touch his own coat without blackening his fingers. The stranger, for a
day or two, keeps up a continual washing of his hands, but he soon sees the folly of it, and
abandons them to their fate. A letter written at Cincinnati on a damp day, when the Stygian
pall lies low upon the town, carries with it the odor of bituminous smoke to cheer the homesick
son of Ohio at Calcutta or Canton. This universal smoke is a tax upon every inhabitant, which
can be estimated in money, and the sum total of which is millions per annum. Is there no remedy?
Did not Dr. Franklin invent a smoke-consuming stove? Are there no Yankees in the West?

Before the traveller loitering along the levee has done wondering at the smoke, his eye is
caught by the new wire suspension bridge, which springs out from the summit of the broad, steep
levee to a lofty tower (two hundred feet high) near the water's edge, and then, at one leap,
clears the whole river, and lands upon another tower upon the Covington side. From tower to
tower the distance is one thousand and fifty-seven feet; the entire length of the bridge is
two thousand two hundred and fifty-two feet; and it is hung one hundred feet above low-water
mark by two cables of wire. Seen from below and at a little distance, it looks like gossamer
work, and as though the wind could blow it away, and waft its filmy fragments out of sight.
But the tread of a drove of elephants would not bend nor jar it. The Rock of Gibraltar does
not feel firmer under foot than this spider's web of a bridge, over which trains of cars pass
one another, as well as ceaseless tides of vehicles and pedestrians. It is estimated that,
besides its own weight of six hundred tons, it will sustain a burden of sixteen thousand tons.
In other words, the whole population of Cincinnati might get upon it without danger of being
let down into the river. This remarkable work, constructed at a cost of one million and three
quarters, was begun nine years ago, and has tasked the patience and the faith of the two cities
severely; but now that it is finished, Cincinnati looks forward with confidence to the time
when it will be a connecting link between Lake Erie and the Gulf of Mexico, and when Cincinnati
will be only thirty hours from Mobile.

The levee, which now extends five or six miles around the large "bend" upon which the city
stands, exhibits all the varieties of Western steamboats. It exhilarated the childish mind
of the stranger to discover that the makers of school-books were practising no imposition upon
the infant mind when they put down in the geography such names as the "Big Sandy." It was cheering,
also, to know that one could actually go to Maysville, and see how General Jackson's veto had
affected it. A traveller must indeed be difficult to please who cannot find upon the Cincinnati
levee a steamboat bound to a place he would like to visit. From far back in the coal mines
of the Youghiogheny (pronounced Yok-a-gau-ny) to high up the Red River,--from St. Paul to New
Orleans, and all intermediate ports,--we have but to pay our money and take our choice of the
towns upon sixteen thousand miles of navigable water. Among the rest we observed a steamboat
about as large as an omnibus, fitted up like a pedler's wagon, and full of the miscellaneous
wares which pedlers sell. Such little boats, it appears, steam from village to village along
the shores of those interminable rivers, and, by renewing their supplies at the large towns,
make their way for thousands of miles, returning home only at the end of the season. They can
ascend higher up the streams than the large boats, and scarcely any "stage" of water is too
low for them. Often as we had admired the four-horse pedlers' wagons of New England, with their
plated harness and gorgeous paint, we resolved that, when we turned pedler, it should be in
such a snug little steamboat upon the rivers of the West. Other steamboats, as probably the
reader is aware, are fitted up as theatres, museums, circuses, and moral menageries, and go
from town to town, announcing their arrival by that terrific combination of steam-whistles
which is called in the West a Cally-ope. What an advance upon the old system of strolling players
and the barn! "Then came each actor on his ass." On the Ohio he comes in a comfortable stateroom,
to which when the performance is over he retires, waking the next morning at the scene of new
triumphs.

Along the summit of the steep levee, close to the line of stores, there is a row of massive
posts--three feet thick and twenty high--which puzzle the stranger. The swelling of the river
brings the steamboats up to the very doors of the houses facing the river, and to these huge
posts they are fastened to keep them from being swept away by the rushing flood. From the summit
of the levee we advance into the town, always going up hill, unless we turn to the right or left.

Here is Philadelphia again, with its numbered streets parallel to the river, and the cross-streets
named after the trees which William Penn found growing upon the banks of the Delaware,--"Walnut,"
"Locust," "Sycamore." Here are long blocks of wholesale stores in the streets near the river,
of Philadelphian plainness and solidity; and as we ascend, we reach the showier retail streets,
all in the modern style of subdued Philadelphian elegance. It is a solid, handsome town,--the
newer buildings of light-colored stone, very lofty, and well built; the streets paved with
the small pebbles ground smooth by the rushing Ohio, and as clean as Boston. In Fourth Street
there is a dry-goods store nearly as large, and five times as handsome, as Stewart's in New
York, and several other establishments on the greatest scale, equal in every respect to those
of the Atlantic cities. The only difference is, that in New York we have more of them. By the
time we have passed Fifth Street, which is about half a mile from the river, we have reached
the end of the elegant and splendid part of the city; all beyond and around is shabby Philadelphia,
begrimed with soot, and "blended in a common element" of smoke. The extensive and swarming
German quarter is precisely like the German quarter of Philadelphia, (though the Cincinnati
lager-bier is better,) and the wide, square, spacious old mansions are exactly such as the
older houses of Philadelphia would be if Philadelphia burned bituminous coal.

Every New-Yorker supposes, of course, that there must be in a large and wealthy city one pre-eminent
and illustrious street like his own Fifth Avenue, where he is wont either to survey mankind
from a club window, or, as mankind, be surveyed. There is no such street in Cincinnati, and
for a reason which becomes apparent during the first long walk. When the stranger has panted
up the slope on which the city is built, to a point one mile from the river, he sees looming
up before him an almost precipitous hill, four hundred and sixty-two feet high, which has been
dug into, and pared down, until it has about as much beauty as an immense heap of gravel. Around
the base of this unsightly mountain are slaughter-houses and breweries, incensing it with black
smoke, and extensive pens filled with the living material of barrelled pork. The traveller,
who has already, as he thinks, done a fair share of climbing for one day, naturally regards
this hill as the end of all things in Cincinnati; but upon coming up to it he discovers the
zigzag road to which allusion has before been made, and which leads by an easy ascent to the
summit.

Behold the Fifth Avenue of Cincinnati! It is not merely the pleasant street of villas and gardens
along the brow of the hill, though that is part of it. Mount to the cupola of the Mount Auburn
Young Ladies' School, which stands near the highest point, and look out over a sea of beautifully
formed, umbrageous hills, steep enough to be picturesque, but not too steep to be convenient,
and observe that upon each summit, as far as the eye can reach, is an elegant cottage or mansion,
or cluster of tasteful villas, surrounded by groves, gardens, and lawns. This is Cincinnati's
Fifth Avenue. Here reside the families enriched by the industry of the low, smoky town. Here,
upon these enchanting hills, and in these inviting valleys, will finally gather the greater
part of the population, leaving the city to its smoke and heat when the labors of the day are
done. As far as we have seen or read, no inland city in the world surpasses Cincinnati in the
beauty of its environs. They present as perfect a combination of the picturesque and the accessible
as can anywhere be found; and there are still the primeval forests, and the virgin soil, to
favor the plans of the artist in "capabilities." The Duke of Newcastle's party, one of whom
was the Prince of Wales, were not flattering their entertainers when they pronounced the suburbs
of Cincinnati the finest they had anywhere seen.

The groups of villas, each upon its little hill, are the cities before mentioned, five of which
are within sight of the young ladies who attend the liberally conducted seminary of Mount Auburn.
The stranger is continually astonished at the magnitude and costliness of these residences.
Our impression was, that they are not inferior, either in number or in elegance, to those of
Staten Island or Jamaica Plain; while a few of them, we presume, are unequalled in America.
The residence of Mr. Probasco is the most famous of these. Externally, it is a rather plain-looking
stone house, something between a cottage and a mansion; but the interior is highly interesting,
as showing how much money to the square inch can be spent in the decoration of a house, provided
the proprietor has unlimited resources and gives himself up to the work. For seven long years,
we were informed, the owner of this house toiled at his experiment. Every room was a separate
study. All the walls are wainscoted with oak, most exquisitely carved and polished, and the
ceilings were painted by artists brought from Italy. It is impossible to conceive an interior
more inviting, elegant, and harmonious than this. Thirty years ago the proprietor of this beautiful
abode was an errand-boy in the establishment of which he was afterwards the head; and when
we had the impudence to look into his house, he was absent in Europe in quest of health! The
moral is obvious even here at the end of this poor paragraph, but it was staggering upon the
spot. How absurd to be sick, owning such a house! How ridiculous the idea of dying in it!

In this enchanting region is Lane Theological Seminary, of which Dr. Lyman Beecher was once
President, and in which Henry Ward Beecher spent three years in acquiring the knowledge it
cost him so much trouble to forget. Coming to this seat of theology from the beautiful city
of Clifton, of which Mr. Probasco's house is an ornament, and which consists of a few other
mansions of similar elegance, the Seminary buildings looked rather dismal, though they are
better than the old barracks in which the students of Yale and Harvard reside. Thirty cheerful
and athletic young gentlemen, and half a dozen polite and learned professors, constitute at
present the theological family. The room in which Mr. Beecher lived is still about fifteen
feet by ten, but it does not present the bare and forlorn appearance it did when he inhabited
it. It is carpeted now, and has more furniture than the pine table and arm-chair which, tradition
informs us, contented him, and which were the only articles he could contribute towards the
furnishing of his first establishment.

Cincinnati justly boasts of its Spring Grove Cemetery, which now encloses five hundred acres
of this beautiful, undulating land. The present superintendent has introduced a very simple
improvement, which enhances the beauty of the ground tenfold, and might well be universally
imitated. He has caused the fences around the lots to be removed, and the boundaries to be
marked by sunken stone posts, one at each corner, which just suffice for the purpose, but do
not disfigure the scene. This change has given to the ground the harmony and pleasantness of
a park. The monuments, too, are remarkable for their variety, moderation, and good taste. There
is very little, if any, of that hideous ostentation, that mere expenditure of money, which
renders Greenwood so melancholy a place, exciting far more compassion for the folly of the
living, than sorrow for the dead who have escaped their society. We would earnestly recommend
the managers of other cemeteries not to pass within a hundred miles of Cincinnati without stepping
aside to see for themselves how much the beauty of a burial-ground is increased by the mere
removal of the fences round the lots. It took the superintendent of Spring Grove several years
to induce the proprietors to consent to the removal of costly fences; but one after another
they yielded, and each removal exhibited more clearly the propriety of the change, and made
converts to the new system. In the same taste he recommends the levelling of the mounds over
the graves, and his advice has been generally followed.

It is very pleasant for the rich people of Cincinnati to live in the lovely country over the
hill, away from the heat and smoke of the town; but it has its inconveniences also. It is partly
because the rich people are so far away that the public entertainments of the city are so low
in quality and so unfrequent. We made the tour of the theatres and shows one evening,--glad
to escape the gloom and dinginess of the hotel, once the pride of the city, but now its reproach.
Surely there is no other city of two hundred and fifty thousand inhabitants that is so miserably
provided with the means of public amusement as Cincinnati. At the first theatre we stumbled
into, where Mr. Owens was performing in the Bourcicault version of "The Cricket on the Hearth,"
there was a large audience, composed chiefly of men. It was the very dirtiest theatre we ever
saw. The hands of the ticket-taker were not grimy,--they were black. The matting on the floor,
the paint, and all the interior, were thoroughly unclean; and not a person in the audience
seemed to have thought it necessary to show respect to the place, or to the presence of a thousand
of his fellow-citizens, by making any change in his dress. The ventilation was bad, of course.
No fresh air could be admitted without exposing some of the audience to draughts. The band
consisted of seven musicians. The play, which is very pleasing and simple, was disfigured in
every scene by the interpolation of what the actors call "gags,"--that is, vulgar and stupid
additions to the text by the actors themselves,--in which we were sorry to hear the "star"
of the occasion setting a bad example. Actors ought to know that when Charles Dickens and Dion
Bourcicault unite their admirable talents in the production of a play, no one else can add
a line without marring the work. They might at least be aware that Western colloquialisms,
amusing as they are, do not harmonize with the conversation of an English cottage. Yet this
Cincinnati audience was delighted with the play, in spite of all these drawbacks, so exquisitely
adapted is the drama to move and entertain human beings. There is a man in Cincinnati, of small
stature, and living in a small house of a street not easy to find, who is doing more to raise,
inform, and ennoble Cincinnati than all her lovely hills and dales. It is the truly Reverend
A. D. MAYO, minister of the Unitarian Church of the Redeemer. His walls are not wainscoted,
and there is about his house no umbrageous park nor verdant lawn. It has only pleased Heaven,
so far, to endow him with a fine understanding, a noble heart, and an eloquent tongue. It is
he, and half a dozen such as he, who constitute in great degree the civilizing force of Cincinnati.

Upon leaving the theatre, we were attracted by a loud beating of drums to a building calling
itself the "Sacred Museum." Such establishments are usually content with the word "moral";
but this one was "sacred." From a balcony in front, two bass-drums and one bugle were filling
all that part of the town with horrid noise, and in the entrance, behind the ticket-office,
a huge negro was grinding out discord from an organ as big as an upright piano. We defy creation
to produce another exhibition so entirely and profoundly atrocious as this. It consisted chiefly
of wax figures of most appalling ugliness. There were Webster, Clay, General Scott, and another,
sitting bolt upright at a card-table, staring hideously; the birth of Christ; the trial of
Christ; Abraham Lincoln, dead and ghastly, upon a bier; and other groups, all revolting beyond
description. The only decently executed thing in this Sacred Museum was highly indecent; it
was a young lady in wax, who, before lying down, had forgotten to put on her night-gown. There
was a most miserable Happy Family; one or two monkeys, still and dejected; a dismal, tired
rooster, who wanted to go to roost, but could not in that glare of gas, and stood motionless
on the bottom of the cage; three or four common white rabbits; and a mangy cat. Such was the
Sacred Museum. Such are the exhibitions to which well-intentioned parents will take their children,
while shrinking in affright from the theatre! It is strange that this lucrative business of
providing amusement for children and country visitors should have been so long abandoned to
the most ignorant of the community. Every large town needs a place of amusement to which children
can be occasionally taken, and it would not be difficult to arrange an establishment that would
afford them great delight and do them no harm. How monstrous to lure boys to such a place as
this "Sacred Museum,"--or to the "Museum" in New York, where a great creature, in the form
of a woman, performs, in flesh-colored tights, the part of Mazeppa!

In all the large Western cities there is a place of evening entertainment called the "Varieties
Theatre," which ladies never attend, and in which three pleasures may be enjoyed at once,--smoking,
drinking lager-bier, and witnessing a performance upon the stage. The chief patrons of these
establishments are gentlemen connected with navigation, and very young men who, for the price
of a ticket, a cigar, and a glass of beer, purchase the flattering delusion that they are "seeing
life," and "going it with a perfect looseness." The performances consist of Ethiopian minstrelsy,
comic songs, farces, and the dancing of "beauteous Terpsichorean nymphs"; and these succeed
one another with not a minute's intermission for three or four hours. At St. Louis, where gentlemen
connected with navigation are numerous, the Varieties Theatre is large, highly decorated, conducted
at great expense, and yields a very large revenue.

The Varieties Theatre of St. Louis, therefore, is a highly flourishing establishment, and the
proprietor knows his business well enough to be aware that indecency never pays expenses in
the United States,--as all will finally discover who try it. At Cincinnati there is also a
Varieties Theatre, but such a theatre! A vast and dirty barn, with whitewashed walls and no
ceiling, in which a minstrel band of five men and two beauteous nymphs exerted themselves slightly
to entertain an audience of thirty men and boys. As the performers entered the building in
view of the spectators, we are able to state that beauteous Terpsichorean nymphs go about the
world disguised in dingy calico, and only appear in their true colors upon the stage.

Cincinnati, then, affords very slight and inferior facilities for holiday-keeping. We chanced
to be in the city on the last Thanksgiving day, and were surprised to see seven tenths of all
the stores open as usual. In the German quarter there were no signs whatever of a public holiday:
every place of business was open, and no parties of pleasure were going out. The wholesale
stores and most of the American part of the city exhibited the Sunday appearance which an Eastern
city presents on this day; but even there the cessation of industry was not universal. And,
after all, how should it be otherwise? Where were the people to go? What could they do? There
is no Park. There are no suburbs accessible without a severe struggle with the attraction of
gravitation. There are no theatres fit to attend. There is no "Museum," no menagerie, no gallery
of art, no public gardens, no Fifth Avenue to stroll in, no steamboat excursion, no Hoboken.
There ought to be in Cincinnati a most exceptionally good and high social life to atone for
this singular absence of the usual means of public enjoyment; but of that a stranger can have
little knowledge.

When we turn to survey the industry of Cincinnati, we find a much more advanced and promising
state of things. Almost everything is made in Cincinnati that is made by man. There are prodigious
manufactories of furniture, machinery, clothing, iron ware, and whatever else is required by
the six or eight millions of people who live within easy reach of the city. The book-trade--especially
the manufacturing of school-books and other books of utility--has attained remarkable development.
Sargent, Wilson, and Hinkle employ about two hundred men, chiefly in the making of school-books;
of one series of "Readers," they produce a million dollars' worth per annum,--the most profitable
literary property, perhaps, in the world. The house of Moore, Wilstach, and Baldwin employ
all their great resources in the manufacture of their own publications, many of which are works
of high character and great cost. Recently they have invested one hundred thousand dollars
in the production of one work,--the history of Ohio's part in the late war. Robert Clarke &
Co. publish law books on a scale only equalled by two or three of the largest law publishers
of the Eastern cities. Cincinnati ranks third among the manufacturing cities of the Union,
and fourth in the manufacture of books. Here, as everywhere in the United States, the daily
press supplies the people with the greater part of their daily mental food, and nowhere else,
except in New York, are the newspapers conducted with so much expense. The "Cincinnati Commercial"
telegraphed from Washington fourteen columns of General Grant's Report, at an expense of eleven
hundred dollars, and thus gave it to its readers one day before the New York papers had a word
of it. A number of this paper now before us contains original letters from Washington, New
York, Venice, London, and Frankfort, Ky., five columns of telegrams, and the usual despatch
by the Atlantic cable. The "Gazette" is not less spirited and enterprising, and both are sound,
patriotic, Republican journals. The "Enquirer," of Democratic politics, very liberally conducted,
is as unreasonable as heart could wish, and supplies the Republican papers with many a text.
The "Times" is an evening paper, Republican, and otherwise commendable. Gentlemen who have
long resided in Cincinnati assure us that the improvement in the tone and spirit of its daily
press since the late regenerating war is most striking. It is looked to now by the men of public
spirit to take the lead in the career of improvement upon which the city is entering. The conductors
of the press here are astonishingly rich. Think of an editor having the impudence to return
the value of his estate at five millions of dollars!

Visitors to Cincinnati feel it, of course, to be a patriotic duty to make inquiries respecting
the native wine; and to facilitate the performance of this duty, the landlord of the Burnet
House publishes in his daily bill of fare twelve varieties of American wine, from three States,
Ohio, Missouri, and California. The cheapest is the Ohio Catawba, one dollar a bottle; the
dearest is Missouri champagne, at three dollars and a half. The wine culture, it appears, is
somewhat out of favor at present among the farmers of Ohio. A German family, many-handed, patient,
and economical, occupying a small vineyard and paying no wages, finds the business profitable;
but an American, who lives freely, and depends upon hired assistance, is likely to fail. A
vineyard requires incessant and skilful labor. The costly preparation of the soil, the endless
prunings and hoeings, the great and watchful care required in picking, sorting, and pressing
the grapes, in making and preserving the wine, the many perils to which the crop is exposed
at every moment of its growth and ripening, and the three years of waiting before the vines
begin to bear, all conspire to discourage and defeat the ordinary cultivator. The "rot" is
a very severe trial to human patience. The vines look thrifty, the grapes are large and abundant,
and all goes well, until the time when the grapes, being fully grown, are about to change color.
Then a sudden blight occurs, and two thirds of the whole crop of grapes, the result of the
year's labor, wither and spoil. The cause, probably, is the exhaustion of some elements in
the soil needful to the supreme effort of Nature to perfect her work. Nevertheless, the patient
Germans succeed in the business, and sell their wine to good advantage to the large dealers
and bottlers.

The Longworth wine-cellar, one of the established lions of the city, cheers the thirsty soul
of man. There we had the pleasure of seeing, by a candle's flickering light, two hundred thousand
bottles of wine, and of walking along subterranean streets lined with huge tuns, each of them
large enough to house a married Diogenes, or to drown a dozen Dukes of Clarence, and some of
them containing five thousand gallons of the still unvexed Catawba. It was there that we made
acquaintance with the "Golden Wedding" champagne, the boast of the late proprietor,--an acquaintance
which we trust will ripen into an enduring friendship. If there is any better wine than this
attainable in the present state of existence, it ought, in consideration of human weakness,
to be all poured into the briny deep. It is a very honest cellar, this. Except a little rock
candy to aid fermentation, no foreign ingredient is employed, and the whole process of making
and bottling the wine is conducted with the utmost care. Nicholas Longworth was neither an
enlightened nor a public-spirited man; but, like most of his race, he was scrupulously honest.
Indeed, we may truly say, that there is in Cincinnati a general spirit of fidelity. Work is
generally done well there, promises are kept, and representations accord with the facts.

Every one thinks of pork in connection with Cincinnati. We had the curiosity to visit one of
the celebrated pork-making establishments, "The Banner Slaughter and Pork-packing House," which,
being the newest, contains all the improved apparatus. In this establishment, hogs weighing
five or six hundred pounds are killed, scraped, dressed, cut up, salted, and packed in a barrel,
in twenty seconds, on an average; and at this rate, the work is done, ten hours a day, during
the season of four months. The great secret of such rapidity is, that one man does one thing
only, and thus learns to do that one thing with perfect dexterity. We saw a man there who,
all day and every day, knocks pigs down with a hammer; another who does nothing but "stick"
them; another who, with one clean, easy stroke of a broad, long-handled cleaver, decapitates
the hugest hog of Ohio. But let us begin at the beginning, for, really, this Banner Pork-house
is one of the most curious things in the world, and claims the attention of the polite reader.

It is a large, clean, new brick building, with extensive yards adjoining it, filled with hogs
from the forests and farms of Ohio, Indiana, and Kentucky. From these yards to the third story
of the house there is an inclined plane, up which a procession of the animals march slowly
to their doom from morning until evening. Here is the first economy. The thing to be done is,
to transfer the pigs from those yards to the basement of the building, and, on the way, convert
them into salt pork. They walk to the scene of massacre at the top of the building, and the
descent to the cellar accomplishes itself by the natural law which causes everything to seek
the centre of the earth. Arrived at the summit, the fifteen foremost find themselves in "a
tight place,"--squeezed into a pen, in which they must remain standing from lack of room to
lie down. There are two of these pens, and two "pen men"; so that the moment one pen is empty,
there is another ready filled, and the work thus goes on without interruption. The fifteen
animals which stand compressed, with their heads thrust upward, awaiting the stroke of fate,
express their emotions in the language natural to them, and the noise is great. The executioner,
armed with a long-handled, slender hammer, and sitting astride of the fence, gives to each
of these yelling creatures his quietus by a blow upon the head. The pig does not fall when
he is struck; he cannot; he only stares and becomes silent. The stranger who is unable to witness
the execution has an awful sense of the progress of the fell work by the gradual cessation
of the noise. We mention here, for the benefit of political economists, that this knocker-down,
who does the most disagreeable and laborious part of the work, has the lowest wages paid to
any man in the house. He does not rank as an artist at all, but only as a laborer. Readers
of Adam Smith and John Stuart Mill know why. When silence within the pen announces the surrender
of its occupants, a door is opened, and the senseless hogs are laid in a row up an inclined
plane, at the bottom of which is a long trough of hot water. One of the artists, called "the
Sticker," now appears, provided with a long, thin, pointed knife, and approaches the pig nearest
the steaming trough, gently lifts its fore leg, and gives it one easy, delicate, and graceful
thrust in the throat. Along the trough, on each side of it, is a row of men, each with an instrument
in his hand, waiting to begin; and apart from them stands the Head-Scalder, who ranks second
in the corps, having a task of all but the greatest difficulty to perform. Scald a pig ten
seconds too long, or in water twenty degrees too hot, and he comes out as red as a lobster;
let the water be too cool, or keep the animal in it too short a time, and the labor of scraping
is trebled. Into the hot water the hogs are soused at intervals of twenty seconds, and the
Scalder stands, watching the clock, and occasionally trying the temperature of the water with
his finger, or the adherence of the hair on the creature first to be handled. "Number One,"
he says, at length. By a machine for the purpose, Number One is turned over upon a long, declining
table, where he lies smoking. At the same instant two men pull out his valuable bristles and
put them in a barrel, and two other men scrape one side of him with scrapers. In a few seconds,
these turn him over and pass him on to two other scrapers, who scrape the other side, and then
slide him along to four other men, who trim and finish him, leaving not a hair upon his soft
and quivering body. Then he falls into the hands of two "gamble-men," who insert a stick to
keep the hind legs apart, and, by the aid of a machine, hang him up with his head downward.
Next, the animal is consigned to the great artist of all, who performs upon him the operation
so much in favor among the nobility of Japan. This artist, we regret to say, but will not conceal
from a too fastidious public, is called "the Gutter." One long, swift cut down the whole length
of the body,--two or three rapid, in-and-out cuts in the inside,--and the entire respiratory
and digestive apparatus lies smoking upon a table, under the hands of men who are removing
from it the material for lard. This operation, here performed in twenty seconds, and which
is frequently done by the same man fifteen hundred times a day, takes an ordinary butcher ten
minutes. This man earns six dollars and a half a day, while no one else receives more than
four; and if he is absent from his post, his substitute, who has seen the thing done for years,
can only perform it one fifth as fast, and the day's work of the house is reduced to one fifth
of its ordinary production.

The long room in which the creatures are put to death, scalded, and japanned presents, as may
be imagined, a most horrid scene of massacre and blood,--of steaming water and flabby, naked,
quivering hogs,--of men in oil-skin suits all shining with wet and grease. The rest of the
establishment is perfectly clean and agreeable. The moment the body of the animal is emptied,
a boy inundates it from a hose, and then another boy pushes it along the wire from which it
hangs on a wheel, and takes it to its place in the cooling-room, where it hangs all night.
This cooling-room is a curious spectacle. It contains two regiments of suspended hogs, arranged
in long, regular rows: one regiment, the result of to-day's operations; the other, of yesterday's.
The cutting up of these huge carcasses is accomplished with the same easy and wonderful rapidity.
The first that we chanced to see cut to pieces was an enormous fellow of six hundred pounds,
and it was done in just one third of a minute. Two men tumbled him over upon a wagon, wheeled
him to the scales, where his weight was instantly ascertained and recorded. Near by was the
cutting-table, upon which he was immediately flopped. Two simultaneous blows with a cleaver
severed his head and his hind quarters from the trunk, and the subdivision of these was accomplished
by three or four masterly cuts with the same instrument. Near the table are the open mouths
of as many large wooden pipes as there are kinds of pieces in a hog, and these lead to the
various apartments below, where the several pieces are to be further dealt with. Gently down
their well-greased pipe slip the hams to the smoking-department; away glide the salting-pieces
to the cellar; the lard-leaves slide softly down to the trying-room; the trimmings of the hams
vanish silently down their pipe to the sausage-room; the tongue, the feet, and every atom of
the flesh, start on their journey to the places where they are wanted; and thus, in the twenty
seconds, the six-hundred-pounder has been cut to pieces and distributed all over an extensive
building.

The delivery of three finished hogs a minute requires the following force of men: two pen-men;
one knocker-down; one sticker; two bristle-snatchers; four scrapers; six shavers (who remove
the hair from parts not reached by the scrapers); two gamble-men; one gutter; one hose-boy;
one slide-boy; one splitter (who fastens the animal open to facilitate cooling); two attendants
upon the cutters; one weigher; two cleaver-men; four knife-men; one ham-trimmer; one shoulder-trimmer;
one packer; six ham-salters; one weigher and brander; one lard-man; one book-keeper; seven
porters and laborers,--in all, fifty men. The system therefore, enables one man to convert
into pork thirty hogs a day. The proprietors of these packing-houses pay the owners of the
animals sixty cents each for the privilege of killing them, and derive their profit from the
refuse. The bristles of a hog are worth seventeen cents; his tongue, five cents; the hair and
the fat of the intestines pay the entire cost of killing, dressing, and packing.

There is a moral in all this. In such establishments, a business which in itself is disgusting,
and perhaps barbarizing, almost ceases to be so, and the part of it which cannot be deprived
of its disgusting circumstances is performed by a very few individuals. Twenty men, in four
months, do all that is disagreeable in the slaying of one hundred and eighty thousand hogs,
and those twenty men, by the operation of well-known laws, are sure to be the persons to whom
the work is least offensive and least injurious.

There are many other industrial establishments in Cincinnati that are highly interesting, but
we cannot dwell upon them. One thing surprises the visitor from the Atlantic cities; and that
is, the great responsibilities assumed in the Western country by very young men. We met a gentleman
at Cincinnati, aged thirty-two, who is chief proprietor and active manager of five extensive
iron works in five different cities, one of which--the one at Cincinnati--employs a hundred
and twenty men. He began life at fourteen, a poor boy,--was helped to two thousand dollars
at twenty-one,--started in iron,--prospered,--founded similar works in other cities,--went
to the war and contracted to supply an army with biscuit,--took the camp fever,--lost twenty
thousand dollars,--came back to his iron,--throve as before,--gave away twenty-five thousand
dollars last year to benevolent operations,--and is now as serene and smiling as though he
had played all his life, and had not a care in the world. And this reminds us to repeat that
the man wanted in the West is the man who knows how to make and do, not the man who can only
buy and sell. This fine young fellow of whom we speak makes nuts, bolts, and screws, and succeeds,
in spite of Pittsburg, by inventing quicker and better methods.

Churches flourish in Cincinnati, and every shade of belief and unbelief has its organization,
or at least its expression. Credulity is daily notified in the newspapers, that "Madame Draskouski,
the Russian wizard, foretells events by the aid of a Magic Pebble, a present from the Emperor
of China," and that "Madame Ross has a profound knowledge of the rules of the Science of the
Stars, and can beat the world in telling the past, the present, and the future." To the opposite
extreme of human intelligence Mr. Mayo ministers in the Church of the Redeemer, and many of
his wise and timely discourses reach all the thinking public through the daily press. The Protestant
churches, here as everywhere, are elegant and well filled. The clergy are men-of-all-work.
A too busy and somewhat unreasonable public looks to them to serve as school trustees, school
examiners, managers of public institutions, and, in short, to do most of the work which, being
"everybody's business," nobody is inclined to do. Few of the Western clergy are indigenous;
it is from the East that the supply chiefly comes, and the clergy do not appear to feel themselves
at home in the West. In all Cincinnati there are but three Protestant clergymen who have been
there more than five years. The Catholic churches are densely filled three or four times every
Sunday, and the institutions of that Church are conducted with the vigor which we see everywhere
in the United States. Fortunate, indeed, are the Catholics of Cincinnati in having at their
head that gentle, benignant, and patriotic man, Archbishop Purcell. It was pleasant to hear
this excellent prelate, when he spoke of the forces of the United States in the late war, use
the expression, "our army." Every bishop does not do so. It was pleasant, too, to hear him
say, in speaking of other sects, "There are some things in which we all agree, thank goodness."
The Young Men's Christian Association is in great vigor at Cincinnati. It provides a reading-room,
billiards, a gymnasium, bowling-alleys, and many other nice things for young men, at the charge
of one dollar per annum. The Association here is said to be free from that provincial bigotry
which, at Chicago, refused to invite to the annual banquet Robert Collyer and the young men
of his church, because they were Unitarians.

And this leads naturally to the topic which interested us most at Cincinnati,--the happy way
in which the Jews are mingling there with their fellow-citizens, and the good influence they
are exerting. There are twelve thousand Jews in the city. Some of the large manufactories and
mercantile houses have Jewish proprietors, who enjoy the social consideration naturally belonging
to their position. The Jews are worthily represented in the government of the city, in the
boards controlling public institutions, and in those which administer private charity. Several
of the leading members of this respectable body belong to the class of men whose aid is never
solicited in vain for a suitable object, and whose benefactions are limited only by their means
or by their duty,--never by unwillingness to bestow,--and who value wealth only as a means
of safety and education to their families, and of opportunity to bestow those advantages upon
others. Christians in considerable numbers attend the beautiful synagogues, and Jews respond
by going to Christian churches. And, O most wonderful of all! Jewish rabbis and Christian clergymen--Orthodox
clergymen too, as they are ridiculously called--"exchange pulpits"! Here we have before us
the report of a sermon delivered last March before a Congregational church of Cincinnati by
Dr. Max Lilienthal, one of the most eminent and learned rabbis in the country. His sermon was
an argument for perfect toleration of beliefs,--even the most eccentric,--provided the conduct
and the disposition are what they should be. "Religion is right," said he; "theology, in a
great measure, wrong." Mr. Mayo and others preach occasionally in the synagogues, and find
that a good Christian sermon is a good Jewish one also. We have, too, a lecture delivered by
another rabbi, Dr. Isidor Kalisch, before the Young Men's Literary and Social Union of Indianapolis,
which is bold even to audacity. He told the young gentlemen that the prevalence of Christianity
in the Roman Empire was not an escape from barbarism, but a lapse into it. "As soon," said
he, "as Christianity began spreading over the Roman Empire, all knowledge, arts, and sciences
died away, and the development of civilization was retarded and checked." Of course any attempt
to express the history of five centuries in twenty words must be unsuccessful. This attempt
is: but the boldness of the opinion does not appear to have given offence. The learned Doctor
further gave his hearers to understand, that knowledge is "the source of all civilization,"
and theology the chief obstacle in its way.

The eyes of every stranger who walks about Cincinnati are caught by an edifice ornamented with
domes and minarets like a Turkish mosque. This is the "Reformed Synagogue," of which Dr. Isaac
M. Wise is pastor,--a highly enlightened and gifted man. It is a truly beautiful building,
erected at a cost of three hundred thousand dollars by one of the best architects in the West,
Mr. James Keys Wilson, who also built the Court-House and Post-Office of Cincinnati. The interior,
for elegance and convenience combined, is only equalled by the newest interiors of Chicago,
and even by them it is not surpassed. Except some slight peculiarities about the altar, it
is arranged precisely like one of our Protestant churches, and the service approaches very
nearly that of the Unitarians who use a liturgy. It is the mission of Dr. Wise to assist in
delivering his people from the tyranny of ancient superstitions by calling their attention
to the weightier matters of the law. Upon some of the cherished traditions of the Jews he makes
open war, and prepares the way for their not distant emancipation from all that is narrowing
and needlessly peculiar in their creed and customs. For the use of his congregation he has
prepared a little book entitled "The Essence of Judaism," from which the following are a few
sentences, gathered here and there:--

"It is not the belief of this or that dogma, but generous actions from noble motives, which
the sacred Scripture calls the path of salvation." "The noblest of all human motives is to
do good for goodness' sake." "The history of mankind teaches, that man was not as wicked as
he was foolish; his motives were better than his judgment." "Reward or punishment is the natural
consequence of obedience or disobedience to God's laws." "Great revolutions in history always
resulted in the progress of humanity." "The first duty a man owes himself is the preservation
of his life, health, and limbs." "The special laws of the Sabbath are: 1. To rest from all
labor; 2. To recruit our physical energies by rest and innocent enjoyments; 3. To sanctify
our moral nature; 4. To improve our intellect." "The best maxim of conduct to our parents is,
treat them as you would wish to be treated by your children." "No offensive words or actions
afford a shadow of justification for killing a human being, or injuring him in his limbs or
health." "Only self-defence with equal arms, defence of others, or the defence of our country
against invasion or rebellion, are exceptions to the above law of the Lord." "Domestic happiness
depends exclusively upon the unadulterated affections and the inviolable chastity of parents
and children." "Palestine is now defiled by barbarism and iniquity; it is the holy land no
more. The habitable earth must become one holy land." "The sons and daughters of the covenant
have the solemn duty to be INTELLIGENT." "Punishment must be intended only to correct the criminal
and to protect society against crimes."

In the same spirit he conducts "The Israelite," a weekly paper. "Liberty of Conscience--Humanity
the object of Religion," is the title of one article in the number before us, and it expresses
the whole aim and tendency of the movement which the editor leads. Nothing is more probable
than that soon the observance of Saturday will be abolished, and that of Sunday substituted.
It is impossible that the enlightened Jews of Cincinnati can continue to attach importance
to a distinction which is at once so trivial and so inconvenient. Indeed, we hear that some
of the Jews of Baltimore have begun the change by holding their Sabbath schools on Sunday.
Who knows but that some rabbi, bold and wise, shall appear, who will lead his people to withdraw
the bar from intermarriage with Christians, and that at last this patient and long-suffering
race shall cease to be "peculiar," and merge themselves in mankind?

The golden rule seems to run in the very blood of the best Jews. One of the publications of
Dr. Lilienthal is a History of the Israelites from the days of Alexander to the present time.
He recounts the sufferings of his ancestors from blind and merciless bigotry; and then states
in a few words the revenge which his people propose to take for fifteen hundred years of infamy,
isolation, and outrage.

"We have accompanied," he says, "the poor exile through centuries of agony and misery; we have
heard his groaning and his lamentations. The dark clouds of misery and persecution have passed
away; the bloody axe of the executioner, the rack and stake of a fanatic inquisition and clergy,
were compelled to give way to reason and humanity; the roar of prejudice and blind hatred had
to cease before the sweet voice of justice and kindness. Israel stands, while his enemies have
vanished away from the arena of history; their endeavors to make Israel faithless to his God
and his creed have proved futile and abortive. Israel has conquered politically and religiously.
Day after day witnesses the crumbling to pieces of the barriers that have secluded them from
intercourse with their fellow-citizens; the old code of laws has become obsolete, and on the
new pages is inscribed the name of the Jew, not only enjoying all rights and privileges with
his Christian brethren, but fully deserving them, and excelling in every department of life
in which he now is allowed and willing to engage. And his religion--the holy doctrine of an
indivisible Unity of God, of man's creation in the image of God, of our destination, to become
by virtue, justice, and charity contented in this, and happy in after life--is daily gaining
more ground as the only religion complying with the demands of reason and our destination on
earth. And Israel does not falter in the accomplishment of its holy mission,--to be the redeeming
Messiah to all mankind, to become a nation of priests, teaching and preaching the truth."

The noble rabbis of Cincinnati are an enlightening and civilizing power in the city, and their
fellow-citizens know it and are grateful for it.

A place like Cincinnati needs the active aid of every man in her midst who is capable of public
spirit. There is a great sum of physical life there, but much less than the proper proportion
of cultivated intelligence. The wealthy men of Cincinnati must beware of secluding themselves
in their beautiful villas on the other side of the hill, and leaving the city to its smoke
and ignorance. The question for Cincinnati, and indeed for the United States, to consider,
was well stated by Mr. Mayo in his celebrated lecture upon "Health and Holiness in Cincinnati,"
one of the most weighty, pathetic, eloquent, and wise discourses we ever read:--

     "Shall our Western city children be saved to lead the
     civilization of America by their superior manhood and
     womanhood? or shall they be buried out of sight, or mustered
     into the 'invalid corps' before they are thirty years of age,
     and hard-headed Patrick, slow and sturdy Hermann, and
     irrepressible Sambo, walk in and administer the affairs of the
     country over their graves?"

A LILIPUT PROVINCE.

Towards the close of summer, all well-feathered Londoners migrate, and may at that season be
observed flying from their native streets or squares in large flocks, like wild geese, with
outstretched necks, and round, protruding eyes. Some settle on the Scotch moors, where they
industriously waddle themselves thin. Others take short flights to neighboring bathing-places,
where they splash in the water with their goslings, strut proudly on the sands, display a tendency
to pair, and are often preyed upon by the foxes which also resort to those localities. Many
more cross the Channel, and may be heard during two months cackling more or less loudly in
every large hotel upon the Continent. And in addition to all these there are the stragglers,--a
small and select race, which defy the great gregarious laws, and delight in taking solitary,
and, if possible, unprecedented flight.

I must own that it is my weakness to pry into the untrodden nooks and corners of life. I have
wasted many precious hours in toiling through black-letter folios and tracts which had no other
merit than their rarity. And I have put myself to the greatest pains and inconvenience to arrive
at a desert island out at sea, or some obscure village hid away among mountains, simply for
the pleasure of feeling that I had been where few other civilized travellers had been. I have
seldom received any better reward than that, but once or twice I have fallen upon a store of
facts, which, however insignificant, had at least the charm of being new, and which have answered
the purpose of stimulating me to fresh absurdities.

A few months ago I was standing on the deck of a steamer bound from London to Hamburg. It was
midnight, and we were approaching the mouth of the Elbe. Right ahead was a light of great brilliancy
and power; this, the captain informed me, shone from Heligoland, and was seen so clearly because
the island was about a hundred and fifty feet above the level of the sea,--a great boon to
navigators, the neighboring coasts being very low. But my informant had been in the habit of
regarding Heligoland as a lighthouse and nothing more; he could tell me nothing about its constitution,
its manners, or its customs, and I determined to visit it forthwith.

By the late wars upon the Continent, the political geography of the Elbe has been completely
changed. Between the mouth of the river and Hamburg, the right bank formerly belonged to Holstein,
and the left to Hanover. Now both are Prussian. Hamburg itself is under the wing of the Prussian
eagle, and may soon be under its claw. The feeling in that city is anti-Prussian; but the citizens
were wise enough to side with their powerful neighbor, and to contribute troops. This has certainly
saved them from the fete of Frankfort, but it is not probable that Hamburg will be allowed
to remain a thoroughly independent state. Prussia will probably abolish her diplomatic, and
perhaps her consular service, and permit her to retain certain important rights and privileges.
It is, at the present moment, an anxious crisis for the great merchants. In Hamburg, fortunes
are made with a rapidity, and to an extent, unequalled in any Continental town; this is owing
to the freedom of the port; but, were the Prussian custom-house system to be introduced, Stettin
and Königsberg would spring into dangerous rivalry, and her commercial interests would decline.

Hamburg is the only city in Europe which bears much resemblance to New York. It has no antiquities,
for the old town was entirely burnt down about twenty years ago. It has no treasure-house of
art, it has not many "historical associations." It is a city of business, and four thousand
persons meet together every day in its Exchange. Its river is crowded with shipping; American
cars rattle along its streets; and ferry-boats built on the American principle steam to and
fro across the Alster-Dam. Its hospitals, sailors' home, libraries, and ornamental gardens
are not inferior to those of New York itself: in these two cities, if the dollar does jingle
too often in conversation, it is sometimes made to shine in a worthy cause. After dusk, Hamburg
becomes dissolute and gay. It is difficult to pass through a single street without hearing
a violin. Lager-bier saloons, oyster-cellars, cafés, dancing-rooms, and restaurants of every
kind are lighted up, and quickly filled. Debauchery runs riot, and yet, strange to say, there
is very little crime. The respectable classes are less well provided for as regards amusement.
I went to the opera, and heard William Tell. The performance was mediocre, though far superior
to anything that could be done upon the English operatic stage. But I was chiefly amused in
watching the habits of the gentlemen who patronized the stalls.

The custom of visiting and receiving at the opera was invented by the Italians, to avoid the
trouble and expense of receiving in their own homes; from Italy it spread through Europe; and
although the opera-houses of London and Paris do not so closely resemble a public drawing-room
as those of Florence and Milan, yet the Italian opera could scarcely exist in those cities
unless it were supported as much by people of fashion as by people of taste. But I was hardly
prepared to find in Hamburg a parody of polite life in this respect. During the whole performance
there was a continual interchange of social greetings between corpulent ship-chandlers, their
heads violently greased for the occasion, and certain frowsy women sprinkled scantily through
the house. There was an old gentleman sitting next to me who turned the performance to a nobler
use; he had apparently brought his son there for the purpose of tuition; holding the libretto
between them, he translated with great rapidity and in a clear voice the Italian words, at
the moment that they were sung, into one of the most guttural of German dialects, thus playing
the part of Dutch chorus to the entertainment, and producing a conflict of sounds which it
would be difficult to describe.

       *       *       *       *       *

I discovered, to my astonishment, that Heligoland, in summer at all events, was by no means
an isolated rock; that since 1840 it has been blessed with a Season; that, celebrated for its
waves, it has become the Scarborough of Northern Germany, and is visited by thousands of sea-bathers
every year.

I took my passage in the little steamer which runs from Hamburg, and arrived at my destination
at 10 P. M.. In the dim light of the moon and stars the island bore a fantastic resemblance
to the Monitor, a little magnified; the lights of the village answering to those of the hull,
and the lighthouse to the lantern at the mast-head. The island presents this appearance only
at a distance and in a doubtful light. When I walked over it the next morning I found that
it was composed of a sand-bank lying under a red cliff. The sand-bank was covered with houses,
which were divided by three or four streets; these were paved with wooden boards. Every house
was a shop, an inn, or a lodging-house. The cliff is accessible on one side only, and is ascended
by means of sinuous wooden staircases. When the summit is reached, one stands upon the real
island, for the sand-bank below is an accident and an intruder. Heligoland proper may be described
as a precipice-plateau, containing a small cluster of houses, a lighthouse, various pole-nets,
springes, and other contrivances for catching woodcocks in their migratory flights, and a few
miniature potato and corn fields. The extent of this plateau is not quite equal to that of
Hyde Park. As soon as I had made this discovery I felt an intense compassion for all persons
of the Teutonic race to whom sea-bathing once a year happens to be indispensable. However,
if dull, it must at least be economical, I thought; but this illusion was dispelled when I
found that there was a roulette-table in the dingy little Conversations-Haus, and when my landlord
handed me in a bill which would not have disgraced any hotel in Bond Street or the Fifth Avenue.

How on earth, thought I, can these poor deluded creatures pass their time? They get up at some
absurd hour in the morning; they sail to a neighboring sand-bank where they bathe and then
take coffee in a whitewashed pavilion; they return to breakfast, and then--what can they do?
There is nowhere to walk; there is nothing to read; and in the height of the season there must
be a scarcity of elbow-room. Although every house offers accommodation to visitors, it has
not unfrequently happened that persons have been obliged to sleep on board the steamers which
brought them, and to return to the main-land. Imagine an island being full, like an omnibus!

Then a thought came upon me which wrung my heart. The Governor! How could this unfortunate
man exist? With a precipice on one side of his house and a potato-field on the other, what
could save him from despair and self-destruction? This question was answered for me when I
heard that he was married.

My eccentric wanderings have at least served to convince me of this,--that a man's sole refuge
from the evils of solitude is to be found in the domestic sentiments. There is, it is true,
a solitude of genius; there are minds which must climb out of the common air and breathe alone.
There is also the solitude of enthusiasm, which is more common, and which is found among a
lower order of men, who become so possessed with a single idea that it leaves them neither
by day nor night, but is their bride, their bosom friend, and their constant occupier. But
what becomes of the ordinary man, if he is excluded from the busy regions of the world, and
if his heart remains as solitary as his life? Everything dries up in him; he becomes uncouth,
bigoted, selfish, egotistical, and usually ends by falling into a semi-torpid state, and by
hibernating into death.

I remember that once I had contrived to creep into the centre of one of the most remote of
the Cape Verde Islands. My mule suddenly turned into a by-path and broke into a cheerful amble.
Experience has proved to me that, when a mule has thoroughly made up its mind, resistance is
out of the question. I contented myself with asking my youthful companion what the animal's
probable intentions were. The boy said that the mule was going to see the Judge, and pointed
to a lovely little cottage which came in view at that moment. Then I recollected that I had
heard this gentleman spoken of, and that I had a letter of introduction to him. The mule carried
me into the stable from which I was conducted into a drawing-room. There, for the first time
during many months, for I had been travelling in strange lands, I saw a number of the Revue
de Deux Mondes. I plunged into it, and made an ineffectual effort to read every article at
once. The Judge came in, and I at once perceived that I was in the presence of a remarkable
man. After an hour's conversation we began to interchange confidences. He told me about his
student dreams at Coimbra,--of the nights which he had passed in book-toil,--of his aspirations,
his poverty, and his exile. Perhaps he saw a little compassion in my eyes when he had finished,
for he added, "Those young hopes have all been crushed, and yet I am happier in this desolate
spot than I have ever been in my life before." The door opened at that moment, and a beautiful
woman came in, leading two little children by the hands.

"This is my happiness, sir," he said, as he introduced me to his wife. Then he looked at his
children, and his eyes filled with unutterable love. "And these," he said, "are my ambition."

But before my visit to the island was concluded, I found that a governorship of Heligoland
was very far from being a tranquil retreat. The present Governor, it seems, had founded a new
constitution, and was charged with having assumed despotic powers, and with having perpetrated
various acts of inhumanity. Governor Wall himself appeared in the light of a philanthropist
as compared with this military ogre, who, having acquired a taste for blood in the Crimean
War, had been sent to Heligoland to gratify his ruthless propensities. He was as bad as Eyre,
for he had suspended a native politician from the Council. He was worse than Sir Charles Darling,
who had defied a constitution; for he had destroyed one.

My curiosity having been excited by these complaints, I went to the proper sources of information,
and in a few hours had mastered the political history of Heligoland.

In 1807 it was captured by Vice-Admiral Russell from the Danes. From that time until 1864 the
government of the colony consisted of a Governor, six magistrates, and a closed popular body
called the Vorsteherschaft, containing, besides the magistrates aforesaid, eight quartermasters
and sixteen elders. The elders were the tribunes of the people; the quartermasters acted as
pilot officers, and superintended all questions of pilotage and wreck; while the magistrates
had the power of nominating persons to fill vacancies in the Vorsteherschaft, and appointed
to them their own particular adherents, or else dangerous political antagonists. The Governor
was a Doge.

A colony governed by pilots, lodging-house-keepers, and small tradesmen could scarcely be expected
to prove a success. In 1820 there was a debt of £1,800; in 1864, of £7,200. Owing to the rapacity
of the quartermasters, the pilot-trade fell into the hands of the people of Cuxhaven. And in
the island itself the wildest anarchy prevailed. The six magistrates were unable to execute
their own decrees; there was no prison in the island, and it seems to have been the custom
for the authorities to kidnap convicted criminals and deposit them on the main-land. Petitions
were being constantly presented to the Home Government from the magistrates, asking for more
power; and from the people, demanding the right to elect their own representatives.

So, in 1864, a new constitution was inaugurated, by an order of her Majesty in Council. Its
plan is similar to that extant in many other British colonies, consisting of an executive council
to advise the Governor; of a legislative body, twelve members of whom are nominated by the
crown, and twelve others annually elected by the people, and forming the so-called Combined
Court, by whom all money ordinances have to be passed. The right of franchise is exercised
by all persons of sound mind who have arrived at the age of twenty-one, and who have not been
convicted of felony,--the last proviso, by the by, might be introduced with propriety in New
York. The candidates for representation must be, to a certain extent, men of property; that
is, they must own land to the value of £1 per annum; or the half of a boat; or the fourth part
of a fishing-vessel; or the tenth part of a decked vessel; or must have a yearly income of
£4; or must pay a house-rent of not less than thirty shillings a year.

The new constitution was at first popular enough. The Heligolanders were willing to accept
the benefits, but they soon began to complain of the burdens, of civilization. The new Governor
determined to strike at the two great abuses of Heligoland,--the roulette-table, and the public
debt,--which were entangled together in a very embarrassing way. Were the gaming-table at once
abolished, the number of visitors would decrease, and those who, on the security of the gaming-table,
had invested their money in the colonial funds, would suffer pecuniary loss. It was therefore
enacted that the table should be abolished at the expiration of the lease (1871), and that
in the interim every measure should be taken to increase the revenue with a view to the reduction
of the debt.

Heligoland, indeed, after a period of bungling and robbery, was placed in the same financial
position as the United States after a period of war. In one case, as in the other, taxation
was the only remedy. But the Heligolanders did not like their medicine, and, like children,
protested that they were quite well. They refused to entertain a new and startling idea,--still
less, to pay for it. They had never heard of such a thing before; their fathers and grandfathers
had never paid taxes, and why should they? It was no use telling them that other people paid
taxes. They were not other people. They were Heligolanders. This, it seems, when spoken in
their own patois, means a great deal; for they consider themselves intellectually and morally
superior to all the other nations of the earth, whom they call, individually and collectively,
skit,--a word in their language signifying dirt. As soon as it was known that "an ordinance
enacting taxation on real and personal property" had been "enacted by the Governor of Heligoland,
with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council, and the concurrence of the Combined
Court," there was a grand disturbance. A reactionary party immediately arose, with the cry
of The old state of things, and no taxation! When the tax-collectors went round, the men laughed
in their faces, and the women called them names. It was in vain that the Governor summoned
a meeting of the inhabitants, and addressed them in very excellent German, and gave them six
months to turn the matter over in their minds. At the end of that time they were still obstinate,
the tax-collectors resigned, and this victory was celebrated with festivities. But suddenly
a British man-of-war appeared; a file of marines marched on shore; the ringleaders of the reactionists
were put into durance vile--for an afternoon; and the taxes were paid up with marvellous rapidity.

The next move of the opposition was a petition, which was signed by three hundred and fifty
out of the two thousand islanders, and was sent into the Colonial Office, protesting against
the new constitution, and requesting the abolition of all the ordinances which it had passed.
Since a certain occurrence which took place in the reign of George III., the British government
has been in the habit of paying most careful attention to all popular petitions from the colonies,
but this one, as may well be imagined, was refused. The constitution being popular, and the
taxes being light, (there is but one person on the island who pays as much as £3 a year,) and
the population extracting considerable wealth from their season visitors, they have no real
grievance to complain of, and when last I heard from the island I was informed that the public
debt was rapidly melting away, and that peace and good feeling had been quite restored.

This Liliput Province, in which the Governor is the only Englishman, and his cow almost the
only quadruped, deserves to be more frequently visited by tourists, as it is perfectly unique
in its way. It also merits the study of English politicians. This island rock is the Gibraltar
of the North Sea. With a few companies of infantry and casemated batteries, it might be held
against any force, and it commands the mouths of the Weser and the Elbe. The Heligolanders
are not Germans,--ethnology perhaps would rather class them with the Danes,--and they have
no German sympathies. There can be no excuse, therefore, for giving up the island to Prussia,
as has been seriously recommended in an English journal; though the objection to this--that
by so doing England might lose prestige upon the Continent--is a groundless fear: at the present
moment she has none to lose.

REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES.

Early and Late Papers, hitherto uncollected. By WILLIAM MAKEPEACE THACKERAY. Boston: Ticknor
and Fields.

It appears to us that the graceful art of Thackeray was never more happily employed than in
the first paper of this series. The "Memorials of Gormandizing" is a record of thrilling interest,
and every good dinner described has the effect upon the reader of a felicitous drama. He goes
from course to course, as from act to act of the play; he is agonized with suspense concerning
the fate of the dishes, as if they were so many heroes and heroines; if the steak is not justly
cooked, it shall give him almost as great heart-break as a disappointment of lovers; when all
is fortunately ended, he takes a long breath, as when the curtain falls upon the picture of
the united young people, the relenting uncle, and the baffled villain. As good as a novel?
There are mighty few novels that have so much of life and human nature in them as that simple
and affecting history, given in this book, of a dinner at the Café de Foy, in Paris. But they
make one hungry with an inappeasable appetite, these "Memorials of Gormandizing," bringing
to mind all the beautiful dinners eaten in Latin countries, and filling the heart with longing
for the hotels that look out on the Louvre at Paris, the Villa Reale at Naples, the Venetian
sunsets, the Arno at Florence, and even for the railway restaurants which so enchantingly diversify
the flat, monotonous, and desolate Flemish landscape.

We travel with Mr. Titmarsh to Bruges, Ghent, and Antwerp, through the latter region, and we
enjoy every one of those "Roadside Sketches," so delicate, so unerring, and so suggestive.
Thackeray is a delightful traveller; for he, who can talk more wisely of old clothes than most
preachers of eternity, gets out of the nothings that tourists see the very life and spirit
of a country. Here is something also about modern art and pictures in England and France, which
comes as near not at all boring as anything of that nature can; but we find the account of
"Dickens in France" so much more attractive, that we shall always read it by preference hereafter.

For this is a book to be read many times by those loving to feel the conscious felicity of
a writer who knows that every sentence shall happily express his mind, and succeed in winning
the reader to the next. The security is tacit in the earlier papers here reprinted; in the
later ones it is more declared, and becomes somewhat careless, though it can never beget slovenliness.
It appears to this great master that what he does so easily can scarcely be worth doing, and
he mocks his own facility.

The spirit of the book is the same throughout. It is not different from that of Thackeray's
other books, and it is that of a man too sensible of his own love of the advantages he enjoys
from the existing state of things ever to assail, with any great earnestness of purpose, the
errors and absurdities of the world,--who trusted, for example, in one of his essays, never
to be guilty of speaking harshly either of the South or North of America, since friends in
both sections had offered him equally good claret. He is forever first in his art; and if we
do not expect too much from him, he gives us so much that we must rejoice over every line of
his preserved for our perusal.

A Vindication of the Claim of Alexander M. W. Ball, of Elizabeth, N. J., to the Authorship
of the Poem, "Rock me to Sleep, Mother." By A. O. MORSE, of Cherry Valley, N. Y. New York:
M. W. Dodd.

It is no great while since Miss Peck proved to her own satisfaction her claim to what Mr. Morse
would style the "maternity" of "Nothing to Wear," and now hardly has Judge Holmes of Missouri
determined that the paternity of Shakespeare is due to Bacon, when the friends of Mr. Ball
of New Jersey spring another trouble upon mankind by declaring him the author of Mrs. Akers's
very graceful and touching poem, "Rock me to Sleep, Mother," which we all know by heart. In
the present pamphlet they give what evidence they can in Mr. Ball's behalf, and, to tell the
truth, it is not much. It appears from this and other sources that Mr. Ball is a person of
independent property, and a member of the New Jersey Legislature, who has written a great quantity
of verses first and last, but has become all but "proverbial" in his native State for his carelessness
of his own poetry; so that we suppose people say there of a negligent parent, "His children
are as unkempt as the Hon. Alexander M. W. Ball's poems"; or of a heartless husband, "His wife
is about as well provided for as Mr. Ball's Muse." Still Mr. Ball is not altogether lost to
natural feeling, and he has not thrown away all his poetry, but has even so far shown himself
alive to its claims upon him as to read it now and then to friends, who have keenly reproached
him with his indifference to fame. To such accidents we owe the preservation in this pamphlet
of several Christmas Carols and other lyrics, tending to prove that Mr. Ball could have written
"Rock me to Sleep" if he had wished, and the much more important letters declaring that he
did write it, and that the subscribers of the letters heard him read it nearly three years
before its publication by Mrs. Akers. These letters are six in number, including a postscript,
and it is not Mr. Ball's fault if they all read a good deal like the certificates of other
days establishing the identity of the Old Original Doctor Jacob Townsend. Two only of the six
are signed with the writers' names; but these two have a special validity, from the fact that
the writer of one is a very old friend, who has more than once expressed his wish to be Mr.
Ball's literary executor, while the writer of the other is evidently a legal gent, for he begins
with "Relative to the controversy in re the authorship," etc., like a legal gent, and he concludes
with the statement that he is able to fix the date when he heard Mr. Ball read "Rock me to
Sleep" by the date of a paper which he thinks he called to draw up at Mr. Ball's residence
some time in the autumn of 1859. This is Mr. J. Burrows Hyde. Mr. Lewis C. Grover, who would
like to be Mr. Ball's literary executor, is more definite, and says that he heard Mr. Ball
read the contested poem with others in 1857, during a call made to learn where Mr. Ball bought
his damask curtains. H. D. E. is sorry that he or she cannot remember where he or she first
heard Mr. Ball read it, but he or she distinctly remembers that it was in 1857 or 1858. L.
P. and I. E. S. witness that they heard Mr. Ball read it in his study in 1856 or 1857, and
state that the date may be fixed by reference to the time "when Mrs. Ball took Maria to Dr.
Cox's, and placed her in the school in Leroy," and the pamphleteer, turning to a bill rendered
by the principal of the Leroy school, "fixes the date called for by the writers in February,
1857," at which time, according to the pamphleteer himself, Mr. Ball was on his way to California
in an ocean steamer! The postscript mentioned among the letters is said to be dated at Brooklyn
in 1858, and merely asks Mr. Ball to "send by the doctor"--not a dozen more bottles of his
invaluable Sarsaparilla, but--the poem entitled "Rock me to Sleep," and this postscript has
no signature, and is therefore worthless.

It appears, then, that these letters do not establish a great deal; the legal gent fixes the
time when he heard the poem by the date of a paper which he thinks was drawn up at a certain
period; H. D. E. is sorry that he or she cannot remember, and then distinctly remembers; the
postscript is without signature; two other friends declare that they heard Mr. Ball, in his
own study, read "Rock me to Sleep, Mother;" at the moment when the poet was probably very sea-sick
on a California steamer. Mr. Grover alone remains to persuade us, and we respectfully suggest
to that enthusiast whether it was not "Rock-a-by Baby" that he heard Mr. Ball read? We do not
think that he or the other writers of these letters intend deceit; but we know the rapture
with which people listen to poets who read their own verses aloud, and we suspect that these
listeners to Mr. Ball were carried too far away by their feelings ever to get back to their
facts. They are good folks, but not critical, we judge, and might easily mistake Mr. Ball's
persistent assertion for an actual recollection of their own. We think them one and all in
error, and we do not believe that any living soul heard Mr. Ball read the disputed poem before
1860, for two reasons: Mrs. Akers did not write it before that time, and Mr. Ball could never
have written it after any number of trials.

Let us take one of Mr. Ball's "Christmas Carols,"--probably the poem which his friends now
recall as "Rock me to Sleep, Mother,"--for all proof and comment upon this last fact:--

    "CHRISTMAS, 1856.

    "And as time rolls us backward, we feel inclined to weep,
    As the spirit of our mother comes, to rock our souls to sleep.
    It raised my thoughts to heaven, and in converse with them there
    I felt a joy unearthly, and lighter sat world's care;
    For it opened up the vista of an echoless dim shore,
    Where my mother kindly greets me, as in good days of yore."

Here, then, is that quality of peculiarly hopeless poetasting which strikes cold upon the stomach,
and makes man turn sadly from his drivelling brother. Do we not know this sort of thing? Out
of the rejected contributions in our waste-basket we could daily furnish the inside and outside
of a dozen Balls. It is saddening, it is pathetic; it has gone on so long now, and must still
continue for so many ages; but we can just bear it as a negative quality. It is only when such
rubbish is put forward as proof that its author has a claim to the name and fame of a poet,
that we lose patience. The verses given in this pamphlet would invalidate Mr. Ball's claim
to the authorship of Mrs. Akers's poem, even though the Seven Sleepers swore that he rocked
them asleep with it in the time of the Decian persecution. But beside the irrefragable internal
evidence afforded by the specimens given of Mr. Ball's poetry, and by his "first draft" of
the disputed poem, and by his "completed copy" of the poem, there is the well-known fact that
Mr. Ball is a self-confessed plagiarist in one case, and a convicted plagiarist in several
others. He has lately allowed in a published letter that he used a poem by Mrs. Whitman in
"concocting" one of his own. It was some years since proven that he had plagiarized other poems,--even
one from Mrs. Hemans.

Mr. Ball has some claims to forbearance and interest as a curious psychological study. Kleptomania
is a well-known disorder. The unhappy persons affected steal whatever they can, wherever they
can, and come home from evening parties with their pockets full of silver spoons, which are
usually sent home with the apologies of mortified friends. We believe, however, this is the
first instance of kleptomania of which the victim not only steals, but turns upon the person
plundered and makes accusation that the stolen goods had been first filched from him. Mr. Ball
is phenomenal, but is a legislative assembly the place for this sort of curiosity? If he is
of sound mind, he is guilty of a very cruel and shameless wrong, meriting expulsion from any
body that makes laws against larceny. If sane, let him go be elected to the New York Common
Council.

Of this pamphlet, aside from Mr. Ball, we have merely to say that it appears to be written
by the most impudent and the most absurd man in America.

Literature and its Professors. By THOMAS PURNELL. London: Bell and Daldy.

A cultivated intellect, a fair degree of shrewd perception, an inviolable conscientiousness,
a common sense frankly self-satisfied, are some of the qualifications which Mr. Purnell brings
to the discussion of literature as seen in modern journalism, and in the lives of Giraldus
Cambrensis and Montaigne,--of Roger Williams, the literary statesman,--of Steele, Sterne, and
Swift, essayists,--of Mazzini, the literary patriot.

Many of the conditions of literary journalism alluded to in these essays are unknown in our
country, where literature has not yet become merely a trade, and where we cannot see that literary
men are sinking in popular esteem, and deservedly sinking, as being no better informed, or
better qualified to control opinion, than their non-writing neighbors. We can better understand
Mr. Purnell when he speaks of the imperfections and discrepancies of criticism, but are not
better able to sympathize with all his ideas. The trouble is not, we think, that "critics who
conceive themselves to be men of taste give their opinions fearlessly, having no misgivings
that they are right," and "if a book is bad, feel it is bad," without being able to refer to
a critical principle in proof, but that many who write reviews have not formed opinions and
have not felt at all, and have rather proceeded upon a prejudice, a supposed law of æsthetics
applicable to every exigency of literary development. A sense of the inadequacy of criticism
must trouble every honest man who sits down to examine a new book; and it might almost be said,
that no books can be justly estimated by the critic except those which are unworthy of criticism.
Upon certain points and aspects of an author's work the critic can justly give his convictions,
and need have no misgivings about them; but how to present a complete idea of it, and always
to make that appear characteristic which is characteristic, and that exceptional which is exceptional,
is the difficulty. Still, criticism must continue: the perfect equipoise may never be attained,
and yet we must employ the balance, or nothing can be appraised, and traffic ceases.

It appears to us that criticism would be even more inadequate than it is, however, if, as Mr.
Purnell desires, it should have "to do solely with the disposal of the materials, and but incidentally
with the quality of the materials themselves." If the German critics whom we are asked to imitate
have taught us anything, it is to look through form at the substance within, and to judge that.
When criticism was supposed a science, it declared with a mathematical absoluteness that no
drama was good or great which did not preserve the unities. Yet Shakespeare has written since,
and no critic in the world thinks his plays bad or weak,--thanks, chiefly, to the German criticism,
which is an art, and not a science, as Mr. Purnell desires us to think it. In fact, criticism
is almost purely a matter of taste and experience, and there is hardly any law established
for criticism which has not been overthrown as often as the French government. Upon one point--namely,
that a critic should judge an author solely by his work, and never by anything known of him
personally--we think no one will disagree with our essayist.

We hardly know how much or how little to value the clever workmanship of these essays, which
is characteristic of a whole class of literature in England, though we suspect it has not much
greater claim to praise than the art possessed by most Parisians of writing dramatic sketches
of Parisian society. It seems to come of a condition of things, rather than from an individual
faculty. Still, it is remarkable, and even admirable, though in Mr. Purnell's case it is not
inconsistent with dealing somewhat prolixly with rather dry subjects, and being immensely inconclusive
upon all important matters, and very painfully conclusive on trivial ones. Our essayist says
little that is new of Montaigne, and does not add to our knowledge of Steele, Swift, and Sterne,
though he speaks freshly and interestingly of Roger Williams as the first promoter of religious
toleration. He requires seventeen pages ("Literary Hero-Worship") to declare that a great poet
ought not to be thought great because he is not a great soldier, and vice versa; he is neat
and cold, and generally doubtful of things accepted, and assured of things doubted,--and, without
being commonplace himself, he seems to believe that he was born into the world to vindicate
mediocrity of feeling.

The College, the Market, and the Court; or, Woman's Relation to Education, Labor, and Law.
By CAROLINE H. DALL. Boston: Lee and Shepard.

Here is a woman's showing of women's wrongs, a woman's appeal to men for simple justice. All
the facts of the matter are grouped and presented anew with emphasis and feeling; and a demand
is finally made for the right of suffrage as the protection for women from all kinds of oppression.

We do not care to discuss the wisdom of this conclusion; but from the premises no man can dissent.
It is unquestionably true that thousands of women in America suffer an oppression little less
cruel than slavery; that they toil incessantly in shops and garrets for a pittance that half
sustains life, and at last drives them to guilt as the alternative of starvation; it is true
that women are shut out from the practice of the liberal professions; it is true that in the
trades to which they are educated they often receive less pay than men for the same amount
and quality of work; it is true that the laws still bear unfairly upon them. If the right of
suffrage will open to them any means of earning bread now forbidden them, if it will help in
any way to give them an equal chance with men in the world, they ought to have it. We are all
alike guilty of their wrongs, as long as they continue; it is not the wretch who enslaves the
needlewoman,--it is not the savage in whose "store" or "emporium" the poorly paid shop-girl
is forbidden to sit down for a moment, and swoons away under the ordeal,--it is not the rogue
who gives a woman less wages than a man for a man's service,--it is not these and their kind
who are alone guilty, but society itself is guilty. The reform of very great evils will be
cheaply accomplished if women by voting can right themselves. It must be confessed, to our
shame, that we have failed to right them; though it may at the same time be doubted whether
the elective franchise, which is claimed as the means of justice, would not now belong to women,
if it had been even generally demanded. So far the responsibility is partly with woman herself,
who must also help to bear the blame for failure to ameliorate the condition of her sex in
the existing political state. Mrs. Dall is by no means blind to this fact, and she speaks candidly
to women, as she speaks fearlessly to men. We think her arguments would have been more forcible
if they had been less complex. It is not worth while to argue the intellectual capacity of
women for the franchise in a country where it is given to ignorant immigrants and freedmen.
It was by no means necessary to show woman's qualification for all the affairs of life, in
order to prove that she should not be hindered or limited in her attempts to help herself.
Indeed, Mrs. Dall's strength is mainly in her facts concerning woman's general condition, and
not in her researches to prove the exceptional success of women in the arts and sciences.

The Land of Thor. By J. ROSS BROWNE. New York: Harper and Brothers.

Mr. Browne's stories of what he saw in Russia, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, and Iceland have that
variety ascribed by Mr. Tennyson to the imitations of his poetry,--

    "And some are pretty enough,
       And some are poor indeed."

It is this traveller's aim to keep his reader constantly amused, and to produce broad grins
and other broad effects at any cost. Naturally the peoples whom he visits, his readers, and
the author himself, all suffer a good deal together, and do not so often combine in hearty,
unforced laughter as could be wished. This is the more a pity because Mr. Browne is a genuine
humorist, and must be very sorry to fatigue anybody. In his less boisterous moments he is really
charming, and, in spite of all his liveliness, he does give some clear ideas of the lands he
sees. It appears to us that the travels through Iceland are the best in his book, as the account
of Russia is decidedly the dullest,--the Scandinavian countries of the main-land lying midway
between these extremes, as they do on the map. Of solid information, such as the old-fashioned
travellers used to give us in honest figures and statistics, there is very little in this book,
which is the less to be regretted because we already know everything now-a-days. The work is
said to be "illustrated by the author"; but as most of the illustrations bear the initials
of Mr. Stephens, we suppose this statement is also a joke. We confess that we like such of
Mr. Browne's sketches as are given the best: there at least all animate life is not rendered
with such a sentiment that cats and dogs, and men and women, might well turn with mutual displeasure
from the idea of a common origin of their species.

Half-Tints. Table d'Hôte and Drawing-Room. New York; D. Appleton & Co.

Here is the side which our polygonous human nature presents to the observer in a great New
York hotel. Throngs of coming and going strangers, snubbingly accommodated by the master of
the caravansary, who seeks to make it rather the home of the undomestic rich than the sojourning-place
of travel; the hard faces of the ladies in the drawing-room; the business talk of the men of
the gentlemen's parlor; the twaddle of the jejune youngsters of either sex in the dining-room;
and individual characters among all these,--are the features of hotel-life from which the author
turns to sketch the exchange, the street, the fashionable physician, and the modish divine,
or to moralize desultorily upon themes suggested by his walks between his hotel and his office.
The manner of the book is colloquial; and the author, addressing an old friend, seeks a relief
and contrast for the town atmosphere of his work in recurring reminiscences of a youth and
childhood passed in the purer air of the country. Some of his sketches are caricatured, some
of his pictures rather crudely colored; but at other times he is very skilful, and generally
his tone is pleasant, and in the chapters, "Not a Sermon," "And so forth," and "Out of the
Window," there is shrewd observation and sound thought.

