Transcriber's Note: To
reflect the individual character of this  | |document, inconsistencies in punctuation and formatting
have been| |retained.                                                        | |          
| |[TN:] denotes a transcriber's note.                              | |                   
| |[HW:] denotes a handwritten note. I married Sam Eddington. I was a Baker, daughter of Mike
and Patience Baker. My mother was a free woman. She had her freedom before the war started;
so I was not a slave. I worked on the farm with my mother when she moved back from town. Mama
worked in town at hotels; then went back to the country and died. In war time and slavery time,
we didn't go to school, 'cause there was no schools for the negroes. After the war was over
and everything was settled, negro schools was started. We had a church after the war. I used
to go to the white folks' Lutheran church and set in the gallery. On Saturday afternoons we
was off, and could do anything we wanted to do, but some of the negroes had to work on Saturdays.
In the country, my mother would card, spin, and weave, and I learned it. I could do lots of
it." My parents were Henry and Julis Watkins. I married Frank Edwards when I was young. Our
master, Marshall Jordon, was not so mean. He had lots o' slaves and he give 'em good quarters
and plenty to eat. He had big gardens, lots of hogs and cattle and a big farm. My master had
two children.

"Sometimes dey hunted rabbits, squirrels, possums and doves.

"De master had two overseers, but we never worked at night. We made our own clothes which we
done sometimes late in evening.

"We had no school, and didn't learn to read and write, not 'till freedom come when a school
started there by a Yankee named Backinstore. Later, our church and Sunday school was in de yard.

"We had cotton pickings, cornshuckings and big suppers. We didn't have to work on Christmas.

"One of de old-time cures was boiling fever-grass and drinking de tea. Pokeberry salad was
cooked, too. A cure for rheumatism was to carry a raw potato in the pocket until it dried up.

"I had 11 children and 8 grandchildren.

"I think Abe Lincoln was a great man. Don't know much about Jeff Davis. Booker Washington is
all right.

"I joined church in Flordia, the Methodist church. I was 50 years old. I joined because they
had meetings and my daughter had already joined. I think all ought to join de church."

The Rev. John B. Elliott, A.B.A. A.M., D.D., 1315 Liberty Hill Avenue, Columbia, S.C., is the
son of slaves. He was born at Mount Olive, N.C., in 1869, and missed being a slave by only
four years. His college degrees were won at Shaw University, Raleigh, N.C., and the degree
of Doctor of Divinity was conferred on him by Allen University of Columbia, S.C.

Sitting on the parsonage piazza recently, the Rector of St. Anna's Episcopal Church talked
about his struggle for education, and his labors up from slavery.

"I was born at Mount Olive, N.C., the son of Soloman Elliott and Alice (Roberts) Elliott. They
were slaves when they married, and I escaped bondage by only four years, since slaves were
not freed in the South, until 1865.

"My father was owned by Robert W. Williams, of Mount Olive, and he was the most highly prized
Negro in the vicinity. He was a natural carpenter and builder. Often he would go to the woods
and pick out trees for the job in hand. Some of the houses he built there are standing today.
Mother was equally trained and well equipped to make a home and keep it neat and clean. When
they were free in 1865, half the community was eager to employ them and pay them well for their
services. And, when I came along, they were living in their own house and prospering.

