"You needn't be in a hurry," said George, with one of his queer smiles. "My engagement has
been put off so many times it won't hurt to delay it a few minutes longer. And besides," he
added, "the other party has done all the putting off so far, and I rather enjoy the novelty."

The young lady blushed and hung her head, and then--but there--what right have we to look?
It is enough for us to know that Udell's engagement was put off no longer, and that he spent
the evening at the Wilson home, where the heart of Clara's mother was made glad by the announcement
she had long wished to hear.

"Law sakes," snapped the old lady; "I do hope you'll be happy. Goodness knows you ought to
be; you've waited long enough." And for just that once, all parties interested were agreed.

Charlie Bowen is in an eastern college fitting himself for the ministry. His expenses are paid
by Mr. Wicks. "To-be-sure," said Uncle Bobbie, "I reckon a feller might as well invest in young
men as any other kind o' stock, an' the church needs preachers who know a little about the
business of this world, as well as the world what's comin'. I don't know how my business will
get along without the boy though, but I reckon if we look after Christ's interests he won't
let us go broke. To-be-sure, college only puts the trimmins' on, but if you've got a Christian
business man, what's all man to begin with, they sure do put him in shape; an' I reckon the
best 'aint none too good for God. But after all, it's mighty comfortin' for such old, uneducated
sticks as me to know that 'taint the trimmings the good Father looks at. Ye can't tell a preacher
by the long words in his sermon, no more 'n you can tell a church by the length of its steeple."

Five years later, two traveling men, aboard the incoming "Frisco" passenger, were discussing
the business outlook, when one pointed out of the window to the smoke-shrouded city. "That
town is a wonder to me," he said.

"Why?" asked his fellow-drummer, who was making his first trip over that part of the road.
"What's the matter with it? Isn't it a good business town?"

"Good business town," ejaculated the other, "I should say it was. There's not a better in this
section of the country. But it's the change in the character of the place that gets me. Five
years ago, there wasn't a tougher city in the whole west. Every other door on Broadway was
a joint, and now--"

"Oh yes, I've heard that," interrupted the other, with a half sneer; "struck by a church revival
or something, wasn't they? And built some sort of a Salvation Army Rescuing Home or Mission?"

"I'm not sure about the church revival," returned the other slowly, "though they do say there
are more church members there now than in any other city of its size in the country. But I'm
sure of one thing; they were struck by good, common-sense business Christianity. As for the
Rescue Home, I suppose you can call it that if you want to; but it's the finest block in the
business portion of the city; and almost every man you meet owns a share in it. But here we
are; you can see for yourself; only take my advice, and if you want to do business in Boyd
City, don't try to sneer at the churches, or laugh at their Association."

