The patent Pick-me-up having failed, and the Burtons being still in need of money, other schemes
were revolved, all more or less chimerical. Lastly, Burton wondered whether it would be possible
to launch an expedition to Midian with a view to searching for gold. In ancient times gold
and other metals had been found there in abundance, and remains of the old furnaces still dotted
the country. Forty cities had lived by the mines, and would, Burton averred, still be living
by them but for the devastating wars that had for centuries spread ruin and destruction. He,
reasoned, indeed, much as Balzac had done about the mines of Sardinia as worked by the Romans,
and from no better premises; but several of his schemes had a distinctly Balzacian aroma, [304]
as his friend Arbuthnot, who was writing a life of Balzac, might have told him. Burton himself,
however, had no misgivings. His friend, Haji Wali, had indicated, it seems, in the old days,
the precise spot where the wealth lay, and apparently nothing remained to be done except to
go and fetch it.

Haji Wali had some excellent points. He was hospitable and good-natured, but he was also, as
Burton very well knew, cunning and untrustworthy. The more, however, Burton revolved the scheme
in his mind, the more feasible it seemed. That he could persuade the Khedive to support him
he felt sure; that he would swell to bursting the Egyptian coffers and become a millionaire
himself was also taken for granted, and he said half in earnest, half in jest, that the only
title he ever coveted was Duke of Midian. There were very eager ears listening to all this
castle building. At Trieste, Mrs. Burton had taken to her bosom another Jane Digby--a creature
with soft eyes, "bought blushes and set smiles." One would have thought that former experiences
would have made her cautious. But it was not so. Mrs. Burton though deplorably tactless, was
innocence itself, and she accepted others at their own valuation. Jane Digby the Second, who
went in and out of the Burton's house as if she belonged to it, was in reality one of the most
abandoned women in Trieste. She was married, but had also, as it transpired, an acknowledged lover.

Like women of that class she was extravagant beyond belief, and consequently always in difficulties.
Hearing the everlasting talk about Midian and its supposed gold, the depraved woman [305] made
up her mind to try to detach Burton's affections from his wife and to draw them to herself.
To accomplish this she relied not only on the attractions of her person, but also on glozing
speeches and other feminine artifices. Having easy access to the house she purloined private
letters, papers and other writings, and after all hope of recovery was over, she would put
them back. She slipped love letters, purporting to be from other women, into Burton's pockets;
and whenever Mrs. Burton brushed his coat or dried his clothes she was sure to come upon them.
Mrs. Burton also received pseudonymous letters.

But whatever Mrs. Burton's faults, she, as we have seen, passionately loved, trusted and even
worshipped her husband; and whatever Burton's faults, he thoroughly appreciated her devotion.
They were quite sufficient for each other, and the idea of anyone trying to come between them
seemed ludicrous. Consequently Mrs. Burton carried her letters to her husband and he brought
his to her. Amazing to say, neither of them suspected the culprit, though Burton thought it
must be some woman's intrigue, and that need of money was the cause of it.

The real truth of it did not come out till after Burton's death, and then the unhappy woman,
who was near her end, made Lady Burton a full confession, adding, "I took a wicked pleasure
in your perfect trust in me."

89. The Old Baronetcy. 18th January 1877.

Repeated enquiry now took place respecting the old baronetcy in the Burton family, and Mrs.
Burton in particular made unceasing efforts, both in the columns of Notes and Queries and elsewhere,
in order to obtain the missing links. Several of Burton's letters at this period relate to
the subject. To Mrs. E. J. Burton, 18th January 1877, he writes: "My dear cousin, I write to
you in despair: That 'party,' your husband, puts me off with a post-card to this effect, 'Have
seen W-----ll, no chance for outsiders,' and does not tell me a word more. I wish you would
write all you know about it. Another matter. Had the old man left me his money or any chance
of it, I should have applied for permission to take up the old baronetcy. But now I shall not.
Your husband is the baronet and he can if he likes assume the "Sir" at once. Why the devil
doesn't he? Of course I advise him to go through the usual process, which will cost, in the
case of a baronetcy, very few pounds. Neither he nor you may care for it, but think of the
advantage it will be to your children. Don't blink the fact that the British public are such
snobs that a baronet, even in the matrimonial market, is always worth £50,000, and it is one
of the oldest baronetcies in the kingdom. Do take my advice and get it for your eldest son
[St. George Burton]. As I said before, your husband might assume it even without leave, but
he had better get 'the Duke' to sanction it. And don't fail to push the man, who won't even
claim what is his right. Que diable! Am I the only article named Burton that has an ounce of
energy in his whole composition." Sind Revisited. 1877. 56. The Gold Mines of Midian. 1878.
57. A.E.I. (Arabia, Egypt, India) by Isabel Burton. 1879. 58. Ogham Runes. 1879. 59. The Land
of Midian Revisited. 2 vols., 1879.

90. "The New Joseph." 31st March 1877-21st April 1877. 19th October 1877-20th April 1878.

Burton now felt that the time was ripe to broach his views concerning the golden Chersonese
to the Khedive (Ismail), and having easily obtained leave from the home authorities, he proceeded
straight to Cairo. The Khedive, impressed with his representations and enthusiasm, promptly
consented to supply funds, and "the New Joseph," as Burton was now called, began preparations
for the expedition that was to make both Egypt and himself rich beyond computation. Then followed
a conversation with Haji Wali, whom age--he was 77--"had only made a little fatter and a little
greedier," and the specious old trickster promised to accompany the expedition. As usual Burton
began with a preliminary canter, visiting Moilah, Aynunah Bay, Makna and Jebel Hassani, where
he sketched, made plans, and collected metalliferous specimens. He returned to Egypt with native
stories of ruined towns evidencing a formerly dense population, turquoise mines and rocks veined
with gold. The Khedive in idea saw himself a second Croesus. These were the quarries, he held,
whence Solomon derived the gold for the walls of the house of his God, his drinking vessels
and his lion throne, but Colonel Gordon, when afterwards told of his scheme, smiled incredulously.
As the hot season necessitated a delay of six months, Burton returned to Trieste, where life
seemed hum-drum enough after so many excitement, and spangled visions. He spent the time writing
a book The Gold Mines of Midian and the Ruined Midianite Cities, and the sluggish months having
at last crawled by, he again left Trieste for Cairo.

91. More Advice to "Lazybones." 8th May 1877.

In a letter to Mrs. E. J. Burton, headed "At Sea, 8th May 1877," he again touches on the old
baronetcy. "Next Saturday I expect to be at Trieste, whence this letter will start. The Times
has probably told you the story of my last adventure, and this will probably have explained
to you why yours of March 8th has remained so long unanswered. That document informed me that
'Lazybones' was going to make himself useful. I hope he has done so. If not, he can learn all
about his grandfather from papers published by the late Admiral Burton, and I do not think
that Miss Eruli would object to letting him have copies. Of course, don't speak about the baronetcy.
That failing, all he has to do is to put the matter (after making an agreement) into the hands
of a professional man, who will visit Shap (Westmoreland) and Galway, and who will find no
difficulty in establishing direct descent. Please write to me again. I shall be heard of in
Trieste for some time. Many thanks to the boys, and salute 'Lazybones' according to his merits."

In due time Burton arrived at Cairo, and the curious expedition set forth for wild, mysterious
Midian. He himself knew nothing of engineering, but he had the services of a practical engineer--one
M. Marie; and some artists, and a number of Egyptian officers and Soudanese soldiers accompanied
the expedition. The party included neither metallurgist nor practical prospector [306] but
Burton carried a divining rod, and seems really to have believed that it would be a help. The
expenses, it was ascertained, would amount to one thousand nine hundred and seventy-one pounds
twelve shillings and sixpence--no very extravagant sum for purchasing all the wealth of Ophir.

92. Haji Wali Again.

At Zagazig they were joined by the venerable wag and trickster, Haji Wali, and having reached
Suez they embarked on the gunboat, the "Mukhbir," for Moilah, which they reached on December
19th. Burton landed with studied ceremony, his invariable plan when in the midst of savage
or semi-civilised people. The gunboat saluted, the fort answered with a rattle and patter of
musketry. All the notables drew up in line on the shore. To the left stood the civilians in
tulip-coloured garb, next were the garrison, a dozen Bashi-Bazouks armed with matchlocks, then
came Burton's quarry men; and lastly the escort--twenty-five men--held the place of honour
on the right; and as Burton passed he was received with loud hurrahs. His first business was
to hire three shaykhs and 106 camels and dromedaries with their drivers. The party was inclined
to be disorderly, but Burton, with his usual skill in managing men, soon proved who was master.

Nothing if not authoritative, he always spoke in the commanding voice of a man who brooks no
denial, and, as he showed plainly that acts would follow words, there was thenceforward but
trifling trouble. He himself was in ecstasies. The Power of the Hills was upon him.

93. Graffiti.

The exploration was divided into three journeys, and between each and the next, the expedition
rested at Moilah. The first or northward had scarcely begun, indeed, they had not no further
than Sharma, before Haji Wali found it convenient to be troubled with indigestion in so violent
a form as to oblige him to return home, which he straightway did with great alacrity. His object
in accompanying the expedition even thus far is not clear, but he evidently got some payment,
and that the expedition was a hopeless one he must have known from the first. The old rogue
lived till 3rd August 1883, but Burton never again met him.

Even in Midian, Burton was dogged by Ovid, for when he looked round at the haggard, treeless
expanse he could but exclaim, quoting the Ex Ponto,

   "Rara neque haec felix in apertis eminet arvis
    Arbor, et in terra est altera forma maris."

   ["Dry land! nay call it, destitute of tree,
     Rather the blank, illimitable sea."]

