  A Page from Leech's Sketch-Book: My Lord Brougham                  441

  Kenny Meadows                                                      447

  Alfred "Crowquill"                                                 450

  Hablôt K. Browne ("Phiz")                                          451

  R. J. Hamerton                                                     453

  W. McConnell                                                       461

  Sir J. Tenniel. By Himself                                         462

  Sketch for the Pocket-Book, "Arthur and Guinevere."
    By Sir John Tenniel                                              464

  Sketch for the Cartoon "Will it Burst?" By Sir John Tenniel        465

  Sketch for the Pocket-Book: "Thor." By Sir John Tenniel            468

  Sketch for the Cartoon "Humpty-Dumpty." By Sir John Tenniel        469

  Captain H. R. Howard                                               475

  Charles S. Keene. By J. D. Watson                                  478

  Keene torturing the Bagpipes. By Himself                           485

  From Keene to his Editor                                           486

  "Frau," alias "Toby"--Keene's last Drawing                       488

  "Cuthbert Bede"                                                    492

  T. Harrington Wilson. By T. Walter Wilson                          497

  George du Maurier                                                  503

  "My Pretty Woman." By G. du Maurier                                508

  Pencil Study. By G. du Maurier                                     509

  "Chang." By G. du Maurier                                          514

  "Don." By G. du Maurier                                            515

  Pencil Study. By G. du Maurier                                     516

  Pencil Study. By G. du Maurier                                     517

  Fred Barnard. A Libel on Himself                                   518

  R. T. Pritchett                                                    520

  J. Priestman Atkinson                                              524

  In a Hansom with Mark Lemon. By J. Priestman Atkinson              524

  C. H. Bennett. By Himself                                          525

  Mrs. Bowers-Edwards (Miss G. Bowers)                               529

  Linley Sambourne. By Himself                                       531

  Ernest Griset                                                      538

  Mr. Griset introduces himself to Mark Lemon                        538

  J. Moyr Smith                                                      541

  J. Sands                                                           542

  W. Ralston                                                         543

  A. Chantrey Corbould                                               544

  M. Blatchford                                                      548

  E. J. Wheeler                                                      549

  Harry Furniss                                                      549

  Punch as the Bishop of Lincoln. By Harry Furniss                 550

  Mr. Gladstone Collared. By Harry Furniss                           552

  Two Friends. By Harry Furniss                                      554

  "A Happy Release:" A Rejected Trifle. By C. J. Lillie              556

  E. T. Reed. By Himself                                             560

  J. Bernard Partridge. By Himself                                   564

  Phil May at Work. By Himself                                       568

  Phil May as Punch. By Himself                                    570

  The Punch Staff at Table, 1895                                   571

  "Finale." By Linley Sambourne                                      572

  Index. Original Sketch. By Charles Keene.                          581

The engravings here borrowed from Punch are reproduced (in all cases in smaller sizes) by special
permission of the Proprietors, Messrs. Bradbury, Agnew & Co. The Portrait of Charles Keene
by J. D. Watson, and of Himself with the Bagpipes, were first published in Black and White,
through whose courtesy they appear here. To all who have accorded the various permissions for
reproductions, or who have lent drawings for the better illustration of this volume, the acknowledgments
of the writer are gratefully recorded. The Copyright of the illustrations is in every case
strictly reserved.

THE

HISTORY OF "PUNCH."

INTRODUCTORY.

"If humour only meant laughter," said Thackeray, in his essay on the English humorists, "you
would scarcely feel more interest about humorous writers than the life of poor Harlequin, who
possesses with these the power of making you laugh.

It may surely be claimed that these words, consecrated to his mighty predecessors by the Great
Humorist of Punch, may be applied without undue exaggeration to his colleagues on the paper.
Though posing at first only as the puppet who waded knee-deep in comic vice, Punch has worked
as a teacher as well as a jester--a leader, and a preacher of kindness. Nor was it simple humour
that was Punch's profession at the beginning; he always had a more serious and, so to say,
a worthier object in view. This may be gathered from the very first article in the very first
number, the manifesto of the band of men who started it, contributed by Mark Lemon, under the
title of--

     "THE MORAL OF PUNCH."

     "As we hope, gentle public, to pass many happy hours in your
     society, we think it right that you should know something of our
     character and intentions. Our title, at a first glance, may have
     misled you into a belief that we have no other intention than the
     amusement of a thoughtless crowd, and the collection of pence. We
     have a higher object. Few of the admirers of our prototype, merry
     Master PUNCH, have looked upon his vagaries but as the practical
     outpourings of a rude and boisterous mirth. We have considered him
     as a teacher of no mean pretensions, and have, therefore, adopted
     him as the sponsor for our weekly sheet of pleasant instruction.
     When we have seen him parading in the glories of his motley,
     flourishing his bâton in time with his own unrivalled discord, by
     which he seeks to win the attention and admiration of the crowd,
     what visions of graver puppetry have passed before our eyes!... Our
     ears have rung with the noisy frothiness of those who have bought
     their fellow-men as beasts in the market-place, and found their
     reward in the sycophancy of a degraded constituency, or the
     patronage of a venal ministry--no matter of what creed, for party
     must destroy patriotism....

     "There is one portion of PUNCH'S drama we wish was omitted, for it
     always saddens us--we allude to the prison scene. PUNCH, it is
     true, sings in durance, but we hear the ring of the bars mingling
     with the song. We are advocates for the correction of offenders;
     but how many generous and kindly beings are there pining within the
     walls of a prison whose only crimes are poverty and misfortune!...

     "We now come to the last great lesson of our motley teacher--the
     gallows; that accursed tree which has its root in injuries. How
     clearly PUNCH exposes the fallacy of that dreadful law which
     authorises the destruction of life! PUNCH sometimes destroys the
     hangman, and why not? Where is the divine injunction against the
     shedder of man's blood to rest? None can answer! To us there is
     but ONE disposer of life. At other times PUNCH hangs the devil:
     this is as it should be. Destroy the principle of evil by
     increasing the means of cultivating the good, and the gallows will
     then become as much a wonder as it is now a jest....

     "As on the stage of PUNCH'S theatre many characters appear to fill
     up the interstices of the more important story, so our pages will
     be interspersed with trifles that have no other object than the
     moment's approbation--an end which will never be sought for at the
     expense of others, beyond the evanescent smile of a harmless
     satire."

A portion of this programme was duly eliminated by the abolition of the Fleet and the Marshalsea;
and it must be admitted that Punch has long since forgotten his declared crusade against capital
punishment. But he has been otherwise busy. His sympathy for the poor, the starving, the ill-housed,
and the oppressed; for the ill-paid curate and the worse-paid clerk; for the sempstress, the
governess, the shop-girl, has been with him not only a religion, but a passion. Professor Ruskin,
judging only by Punch's pictures, and that a little narrowly, has thought otherwise. Punch
"has never in a single instance," says he in his "Art of England," "endeavoured to represent
the beauty of the poor. On the contrary, his witness to their degradation, as inevitable consequences
of their London life, is constant and, for the most part, contemptuous."

Truth to tell, Punch has been kindly from the first; and a man of mettle, too. None has been
too exalted or too powerful for attack; withal, his assaults, in comparison with those of his
scurrilous contemporaries, have been moderate and gentlemanly in tone. He has attacked abuses
from the highest to the lowest. Sham gentility, vulgar ostentation, crazes and fads, linked
æstheticism long drawn out, foolish costume, silly affectations of fashion in compliment and
language--all have been set up as targets for his shafts of ridicule or scorn. He has been
a moral reformer and a disinterested critic. A liberal-minded patriot, he has ever opposed
the advocacy of "Little Peddlington" in Imperial politics; and municipal maladministration
is a perennial subject for his denunciations. He has been a kindly cauteriser of social sores;
caustic, but rarely vindictive. Spiritualism, Socialism, Ibsenism, Walt Whitmania--all the
movements and sensations of the day, social, political, and artistic, in so far as they are
follies--have been shot at as they rose. And having conquered his position, Punch has known
how to retain it. "The clown," says Oliver Wendell Holmes, "knows his place to be at the tail
of the procession." It is to Punch's honour that with conscious dignity--and, of course, with
conscious impudence--he took his place at its head. And there he has stayed; and transforming
his pages into the Royal Academy of pictorial satire, his alone among all the comic papers
has forced its way into the library and taken up its position in the boudoir. His workers are
the best available in the land; and when in course of time one contributor falls away, another
is ready to step quickly into his place--uno avulso non deficit alter.

So Punch--who for many years past has set up as the incarnation of all that is best in wit
and virtue--is a scholar and a gentleman. He is, moreover, on his own showing, a perfect combination
of humour, wisdom, and honour; and yet, in spite of it all, not a bit of a prig. It is true
that when he donned the dress-coat, and "Punch" and "Toby" put on airs as "Mr. Punch" and "Toby,
M.P.," he became milder at the expense of some of his political influence. Yet what he lost
in power he gained in respectability, as well as in the affection of his countrymen. He appealed
to a higher class, to the greater constituency of the whole nation; and remembering that a
jest's prosperity lies in the ear that hears it, he transferred some of his allegiance from
pit to stalls, and was content with the well-bred smile where before he had been eager for
noisy laughter and loud applause.

People say--among them Mr. du Maurier himself--that there does not seem quite as much fun and
jollity in the world as when John Leech was alive; but that surely is only the wail of the
middle-aged. Englishmen never were uproarious in their mirth, as Froissart once reminded us.
But it is true that Punch does not indulge so much as once he did in caricature--which after
all, as Carlyle has pointed out, is not Humour at all, but Drollery. Caricature, one must remember,
has two mortal enemies--a small and a great: artistic excellence of draughtsmanship, and national
prosperity with its consequent contentment. Good harvests beget good-humour. They stifle all
motive for genuine caricature, for "satire thrives only on the wrath of the multitude." A joke
may be only a joke--or a comedy, or a tragedy; but the greatest caricature (which need by no
means display the greatest art) is necessarily that which goes straightest to the heart and
mind. No drawing is true caricature which does not make the beholder think, whether it springs
simply from good-humour or has its source in the passion of contempt, hatred, or revenge, of
hope or despair. Mere amusement, said Swift, "is the happiness of those who cannot think,"
while Humour, to quote Carlyle again, "is properly the exponent of low things; that which first
renders them poetical to the mind." Through this truth we may see how Punch has so continually
dealt with vulgarity without being vulgar; while many of his so-called rivals, touching the
self-same subjects, have so tainted themselves as to render them fitter for the kitchen than
the drawing-room, through lack of this saving grace. Fun may have been in their jokes, but
not true humour. Punch thus became to London much what the Old Comedy was to Athens; and, whatever
individual critics may say, he is recognised as the Nation's Jester, though he has always sought
to do what Swift declared was futile--to work upon the feelings of the vulgar with fine sense,
which "is like endeavouring to hew blocks with a razor."

If there is one thing more than another on which Punch prides himself--on which, nevertheless,
he is constantly reproached by those who would see his pages a remorseless mirror of human
weakness and vice--it is his purity and cleanness; his abstention from the unsavoury subjects
which form the principal stock-in-trade of the French humorist. This trait was Thackeray's
delight. "As for your morality, sir," he wrote to Mr. Punch, "it does not become me to compliment
you on it before your venerable face; but permit me to say that there never was before published
in this world so many volumes that contained so much cause for laughing, and so little for
blushing; so many jokes, and so little harm. Why, sir, say even that your modesty, which astonishes
me more and more every time I regard you, is calculated, and not a virtue naturally inherent
in you, that very fact would argue for the high sense of the public morality among us. We will
laugh in the company of our wives and children; we will tolerate no indecorum; we like that
our matrons and girls should be pure."

It was not till the great occasion of his Jubilee that the Merry Old Gentleman of Fleet Street,
who "hath no Party save Mankind; no Leader--but Himself," discovered the full measure of his
popularity. The day broke for him amid a chorus of greeting--a perfect pæan of triumph, in
which his own trumpet was not the softest blown. It is not an exaggeration to say that the
Press of the world welcomed the fiftieth anniversary of his birth, and that with a cordiality
and unanimity never before accorded to any paper. Hardly a journal in the English-speaking
world but commented on the event with kindly sympathy; hardly one that marred the celebration
with an ill-humoured reflection. Pencil as well as pen was put to it to do honour to the greatest
comic paper in the world, and demonstrate in touching friendliness the confraternity of the Press.

For the public, Punch issued his "Jubilee number" and, in accordance with the promise given
in the first volume fifty years before, he produced in his hundredth a brief history of his
career and the names of the men who made it, modestly advising his readers to secure a set
of his back volumes as the real "Hundred Best Books." For himself, he dined with the Staff
at the "Ship Hotel" at Greenwich, when the Editor, who occupied the chair, was fêted by the
proprietors of the paper and received a suitable memento of the glorious event.

And what may appear to some as the most curious celebration of all was a solemn religious celebration--nothing
less than a Te Deum--in honour of the occasion. It sounds at first, perhaps, a little like
a joke--though not in good enough taste to be one of Mr. Punch's own; but the service was held;
and when regarded in the light shed upon it by the Rev. J. de Kewer Williams, the incongruity
of it almost disappears. "I led my people yesterday," he wrote, "in giving thanks on the occasion
of your Jubilee, praying that you might ever be as discreet and as kindly as you have always
been." The prayer spoken in the pulpit appropriately ended as follows: "For it is so easy to
be witty and wicked, and so hard to be witty and wise. May its satire ever be as good and genial,
and the other papers follow its excellent example!"

The public tribute was not less cordial and sincere, and poetic effusions flowed in a gushing
stream. But none of these verses, doggerel and otherwise, expressed more felicitously the general
feeling than those which had been written some years before by Henry J. Byron--(who had himself
attempted to establish a rival to Punch, but had been crushed by the greater weight)--one of
his verses running:--

  "From 'Forty-one to present times
    How much these pages speak,
  And Punch still bids us look into
    The middle of next week;
  And that's a Wednesday, as we know,
    When still our friend appears,
  As honest, fearless, bright, and pure
    As in the bygone years."

But greater far than the public esteem is the affection of the Staff, who naturally enough
regard the personality of Punch with a good deal more than ordinary loyal sentiment and esprit
de corps. It is interesting to observe the different views the artists have severally taken
of it, for most of them in turn have attempted his portrayal. Brine regarded him as a mere
buffoon, devoid of either dignity or breeding; Crowquill, as a grinning, drum-beating Showman;
Doyle, Thackeray, and others adhered to the idea of the Merry, but certainly not uproarious,
Hunchback; Sir John Tenniel showed him as a vivified puppet, all that was earnest, responsible,
and wise, laughing and high-minded; Keene looked on him generally as a youngish, bright-eyed,
but apparently brainless gentleman, afflicted with a pitiable deformity of chin, and sometimes
of spine; Sir John Gilbert as a rollicking Polichinelle, and Kenny Meadows as Punchinello;
John Leech's conception, originally inspired, no doubt, by George Cruikshank's celebrated etchings,
was the embodiment of everything that was jolly and all that was just, on occasion terribly
severe, half flesh, half wood--the father, manifestly, of Sir John Tenniel's improved figure
of more recent times. Every artist--Mr. du Maurier, Mr. Sambourne, Mr. Furniss, and the rest--has
had his own ideal; and it is curious to observe that in his realisation of it, each has illustrated
or betrayed in just measure the strength or weakness of his own imagination.

It should be counted against neither the fair fame nor the reputation of Punch that the facts
of his birth have never yet been definitely and honourably established. It is not that his
parentage has been lost to history in a discreet and charitable silence; on the contrary, it
is rather that that honour has been claimed by over-many, covetous of the distinction. He seems
to come within the category of Defoe's true-born Englishman, "whose parents were the Lord knows
who," not because there should be any doubt upon the subject, but because none suspected at
the time the latent importance of the bantling and the circumstances of his birth until it
seemed too late to decide by demonstration or simple affirmation who was father and who the
sponsors. Had it then been known that Punch was born for immortality, I should not now be at
the pains of setting forth, at greater length than would otherwise be necessary or justifiable,
the proofs of his parentage and of his natal place.

  "Great Homer's birth seven rival cities claim,
  Too mighty such monopoly of Fame."

Rubens was born both at Antwerp and Cologne. One knows it to be so, when one has visited both
houses. Hans Memling, again, was native of Bruges and Mömelingen too. It is hardly surprising,
then, that several roof-trees claim the honour of having sheltered the new-born Punch, and
that many men have contended for his paternity.

I say "his" paternity; for the absolute personality of Punch has long been recognised. It has
been the usual custom of comic papers to indulge in a similar fiction, mildly humorous and
conveniently anonymous--"Figaro in London," "Pasquin," "The Puppet Show"-man, "The Man in the
Moon," and the rest. But Punch was not only a personality himself, but at the outset began
by introducing the rest of his family to the public. Nowadays he ignores his wife, especially
since a contemporary has appropriated her name. But this was not always so. In his prospectus
he announces that his department of "Fashion" will be conducted by Mrs. J. Punch, whose portrait,
drawn by Leech's pencil, appeared in 1844 (p. 19, Vol. VI.), and who was seen again, under
the name of Judina, in honourable companionship with her husband, in the preface to Vol. XLVII.,
for 1864, and once more in "Mrs. Punch's Letters to Her Daughter." His daughter Julia, too,
being then, in 1841, "in service," wrote a letter to the journal in that style of damaged orthography
afterwards adopted by the immortal Jeames and his American cousin, Artemus Ward. But it was
not long before Punch took a rise in the social scale, and many men of distinction in literature
have claimed him for their child with all the emphasis of groundless assertion.

According to the "City Press" (June 27th, 1892), Mr. C. Mitchell frequently declared that Punch
originated with him, Shirley Brooks, Henry Mayhew, and Ebenezer Landells, in his office in
Red Lion Court, the latter drawing the original sketch of the pink monthly cover of Punch.
But as Shirley Brooks did not come on the scene till thirteen years later, and as the cover
in question is the one designed, and signed, by Sir John Gilbert in 1842, the claim may be
dismissed, except in so far as it may support Landells' statement that he prepared the scheme
of such a paper and submitted it to several publishers before he and his associates determined
upon carrying it themselves into execution. And soon after it was started, as will be seen,
the services of a speculative printer were anxiously sought.

Mr. Hatton declares that Mark Lemon "always spoke of it to me as a project of himself and Henry
Mayhew," wherein he is followed by the "Dictionary of National Biography;" and the Hon. T.
T. à Beckett gives the exclusive honour to Henry Mayhew (wherein he is followed by the same
authority in the notice of the latter writer), but admits the further founder's claim of Stirling
Coyne.

The writer of the well-known, but sadly inaccurate, pamphlet entitled "Mr. Punch, His Origin
and Career," which was published in 1882 as a memorial of Mark Lemon, explains circumstantially
that it was Mr. Last, the printer, who proposed the idea to Henry Mayhew, who "readily accepted
it." The book is generally accredited to Sidney Blanchard; but when I explain that the printer
of it, now deceased, informed me that it was written and brought to him by Last's son, the
transfer of the central interest from Landells and Henry Mayhew becomes intelligible.

The late Mr. R. B. Postans, the house-chum of Henry Mayhew, "his companion from morning to
night," and George Hodder, in his oft-quoted "Memories of My Time," agree in according undivided
credit to Henry Mayhew; but they unfortunately disagree in essentials, and contradict each
other, and indirectly confirm my own conclusions. Hodder further declares that Mayhew invented
the paper and its name simultaneously, which sprang Minerva-like, full-titled, from his brain--which
we know to be untrue, as the name was not decided upon until a subsequent meeting. Indeed,
on the final prospectus, written with Mark Lemon's hand, as may be seen on p. 20, the present
title was only inserted as an after-thought.

Then comes the version of Henry Mayhew's son, Mr. Athol Mayhew, who claims everything for his
father in a statement of some length, in some respects authentic, but in many details entirely
erroneous. He carries back Mayhew's idea of a "London Charivari" to the year 1835; but, as
will be seen a little further on, Orrin Smith, Jerrold, Thackeray, and several more of the
wags of the day afterwards combined in a stillborn effort to start a similar paper based on
the same model. The writer bases his case far too much on Hodder's "Memories," which, entertaining
though they are, do not universally command the trust and respect with which Mr. Athol Mayhew
regards them. "A more sanguine man than my father," he says, "never breathed, and in his arrangement
with Hodder appears to have taken everything for granted, although the scheme had not as yet
been even breathed to Messrs. Landells and Last [the engraver and printer]; for when the latter
gentleman agreed to enter into the speculation, Mayhew had removed to Clement's Inn." But the
writer, who would appear to have inherited the paternal characteristic of "taking everything
for granted," has not considered that Hodder declared that his visit to Hemming's Row, by which
occasion it is alleged that the new Punch had sprung to Mayhew's brain, was "in the summer."
As Punch appeared in the middle of July, and, according to the draft prospectus, was first
arranged to appear on June 10th (though this may possibly have been a lapsus calami), it requires
more than ordinary sanguineness to accept the statement that not a word had been breathed to
persons so paramount in such a newspaper enterprise as the printer and engraver--especially
when the paper was to make its appearance in a few days' time. And yet Mr. Mayhew adds that
matters did not progress even so rapidly as his authority, George Hodder, narrates.

Yet although it was not, as will appear, Henry Mayhew who was the actual initiator of Punch,
it was unquestionably he to whom the whole credit belongs of having developed Landells' specific
idea of a "Charivari," and of its conception in the form it took. Though not the absolute author
of its existence, he was certainly the author of its literary and artistic being, and to that
degree, as he was wont to claim, he was its founder.

From all these versions (which, after all, vary hardly more than the accounts of other incidents
of Punch life[1]) it is not very easy at first sight to sift the truth. There is a story of
the tutor of an Heir-Apparent who asked his pupil, by way of examination, what was the date
of the battle of Agincourt. "1560," promptly replied the Prince. "The date which your Royal
Highness has mentioned," said the tutor, "is perfectly correct, but I would venture to point
out that it has no application to the subject under discussion." A like criticism might fairly
be passed on each existing reading of the genesis of Punch. It has been worth while, for the
first time, and it is to be hoped the last, to collate and compare these statements, and ascertain
the facts as far as possible. Claims have been set up, variously and severally, for Henry Mayhew,
Mark Lemon, Joseph Last, Ebenezer Landells, and Stirling Coyne; even Douglas Jerrold and Gilbert
à Beckett have been declared originators, though no such pretentions came directly from them.
Otherwise than in the spirit of the Scottish minister who exclaimed, "Brethren, let us look
our difficulties boldly and fairly in the face--and pass on," I propose to take those portions
of the stories which tally with the facts I have ascertained and verified beyond all doubt,
and, disentangling the general confusion as briefly as may be, to present one consistent version,
which must stand untainted by claims of friendship, by pride of kinship, or filial respect.

It had occurred to many of the wits, literary and artistic, who well understood the cause of
mortality in the so-called comic press that had gone before, that a paper might succeed which
was decently and cleanly conducted. It might be as slashing in its wit and as fearless in its
opinions as it pleased, so long as those opinions were honest and their expression restrained.
Their idea was founded rather on Philipon's Paris "Charivari" than on anything that had appeared
in England; but they plainly saw that to attract and hold the public the paper which they imagined
must be a weekly and not a daily one. The Staff which was brought together consisted of Douglas
Jerrold, Thackeray, Laman Blanchard, Percival Leigh, and Poole, author of "Paul Pry"--authors;
and Kenny Meadows, Leech, and perhaps Crowquill--artists; with Orrin Smith as engraver. The
whole scheme of this new "London Charivari" was in a forward state of preparation, even to
pages of text being set up, when it suddenly collapsed through a mistaken notion of Thackeray's
that each co-partner--there being no "capitalist" thought of--would be liable for the private
debts of his colleagues. The suggestion was too much for the faith of the schemers in one another's
discretion, and "The London Charivari" was incontinently dropped; yet unquestionably it had
some indirect influence on the subsequent constitution and career of Mr. Punch.

For some years the success of the Paris "Charivari" had attracted the attention of Mr. Ebenezer
Landells, wood-engraver, draughtsman, and newspaper projector. He had been a favourite pupil
of the great Bewick himself, and had come up to London, where he soon made his mark as John
Jackson's and Harvey's chief lieutenant and obtained an entrance into literary and artistic
circles. A man of great originality and initiative ability, of unflagging energy and industry,
of considerable artistic taste, and of great amiability, he also had the defect of the creative
quality of his mind, so that, owing to that lack of business talent which the public generally
associates with the artistic temperament, he did not ultimately prove himself more than a moderate
financial success. As Jerrold, Thackeray, and the rest had done before him, he believed in
a "Charivari" for England, and pondered how the Parisian success might be emulated and achieved.
In his house at 22, Bidborough Street, St. Pancras (where most of the early Punch blocks were
cut), he had a ready-made staff of engravers that included some names destined to become better
known--Mr. Birket Foster; Mr. Edmund Evans, best known nowadays in connection with Miss Kate
Greenaway's delightful children's books; J. Greenaway, her father, who became a master engraver
himself; and William Gaiter, who afterwards took Orders; while "outside" were Edward and George
Dalziel, T. Armstrong, and Charles Gorway. With these young men the handsome, tall engraver
was extremely popular; they called him "the Skipper," or "Old Tooch-it-oop" behind his back,
in token of his Northumbrian accent, but to his friends he was generally known as "Daddy Longlegs,"
or "Daddy Landells."

So Landells took the idea, which he determined upon carrying out, to one or two well-established
publishers, Wright of Fleet Street amongst them, but none could see the germ of a first-rate
property in it. It was objected that the temperament of the English people so differed from
that of the French that they certainly would neither appreciate nor encourage the requisite
style of writing, even supposing--which they did not believe--that the necessary talent were
forthcoming. Moreover, they would not credit that a comic paper could succeed without the scurrility,
and often enough the indecencies, that had distinguished earlier satirical prints; and although
the popularity of Hood's "Comic Annual" and Cruikshank's "Comic Almanac" was pointed to, they
would have nothing to do with a weekly, however much it professed to supersede previous ribaldry
with clean wit and healthy humour.

As it happened, early in 1841 Landells was concerned, with his friend Joseph Last, printer,
of 3, Crane Court, Fleet Street, in projecting a periodical known as "The Cosmorama," an illustrated
journal of life and manners of the day, and to him Landells imparted his conviction that such
a journal as he imagined would certainly succeed. The enterprising printer lent a readier ear
than others had done (perhaps, in view of his limited capital and still more limited ideas
of speculation, altogether too ready an ear), and agreed with Landells to take up so excellent
a notion. Now, in the little world of comic writing a brilliant humorist was at work--Henry
Mayhew, one of several brothers of ability, a man whose resource was equal to his wit. He was
already known to Last as the son of the leading member of the firm of Mayhew, Johnston, and
Mayhew, of Carey Street, his legal advisers. He was residing at the time at Hemming's Row,
over a haberdasher's shop, and, with F. W. N. Bayley and others, he had been secured as writer
on "The Cosmorama." Landells, introduced to him by Last, approached him on the subject of the
"Charivari." Mayhew grasped the conception at once, and, as the sequel proved, saw it more
completely, and perhaps appreciated its literary and artistic possibilities more clearly, than
either its material originator or his ambassador had done. He immediately advised dropping
"The Cosmorama," and directing on to the new comic all the energy and resources that were to
have been put into the more commonplace publication. In due course he imparted the new idea
to his friend Postans, who shared his room, and to other visitors; but he forgot to mention
how the idea had been brought to him, so that his friends not unnaturally counted it as another
of Harry's many happy, but usually impracticable, thoughts. But in this instance Mayhew made
his personality felt, for the character of the paper, instead of partaking of that acidulated,
sardonic satire which was distinctive of Philipon's journal, on which it was to have been modelled,
took its tone from Mayhew's genial temperament, and from the first became, or aimed at becoming,
a budget of wit, fun, and kindly humour, and of honest opposition based upon fairness and justice.

As for the Staff of such a paper as he imagined, Mayhew urged that he could secure the services
of Douglas Jerrold, Gilbert à Beckett, Mark Lemon, Stirling Coyne, and others, in addition
to those already engaged; and then adjournment was proposed to Mark Lemon's rooms in Newcastle
Street, Strand. "The Shakespeare's Head," in Wych Street, had previously been Lemon's place
of business. It was the meeting-place of the little "quoting, quipping, quaffing" club of fellow-workers
in Bohemia; and Lemon, it was explained, had dabbled both in verse and the lighter drama, efforts
which were "not half bad." Little did the writer dream that his modest Muse had marked him
out for the editorship of the greatest comic journal the world has seen! To the duties of tavern-keeper
Lemon, who was enamoured of literature and the drama, had been condemned by a fate more than
usually unkind. He had found himself nearly penniless when Mr. Very, his stepfather, offered
him a clerical position in his brewery in Kentish Town. But the brewery failed, and with it
Lemon's livelihood, and he was only rescued by a jovial tavern-keeper named Roper, one of his
stepfather's customers, and by him put into charge--disastrously for both--of the Wych Street
public-house. Then he married, having borrowed five pounds to do it with, and by his wife's
advice kept in touch with his literary acquaintance; and by the acceptance of a five-act comedy
by Charles Mathews at Covent Garden--which was to be played by a cast including the great comedian's
self, Mme. Vestris, and "Old" Farren--he received a hundred pounds down, and was tided over
his difficulties until the starting of Punch gave him permanent employment.

So to Mark Lemon they went, and a full list was quickly drawn up. Mayhew undertook to communicate
with Douglas Jerrold, who, then better known to the public as the successful dramatist than
as the great satirist, was staying at Boulogne for the sake of his young family's education;
and a charming picture has been drawn by his son of how, on the visit of à Beckett, Charles
Dickens, and the rest, he would throw off his clothes and swim with them in the sea, or challenge
them to a game of leap-frog on the sands--a curious contrast to his own declaration that the
only exercise he cared for was cribbage.[2]

Stirling Coyne, Daily, W. H. Wills, H. P. Grattan (H. Plunkett, otherwise "Fusbos"), Henning,
Henry Baylis, and "Paul Prendergast"--whose "Comic Latin Grammar" had been attracting much
attention--were proposed, and Hodder was told off to wait upon the latter. At the adjourned
meeting at the "Edinburgh Castle" tavern in the Strand, Somerset House, Postans, William Newman,
Baylis (afterwards president of the "Punch Club"), Stirling Coyne, Henning, Mayhew, Landells,
and Hodder were present. The latter then explained that "Prendergast" was a young medical man,
Percival Leigh by name, who preferred to wait before giving his adhesion until he was satisfied
as to the character of the publication; and "Phiz" had returned a similar reply to Mark Lemon--though
later on he was glad enough to accept little commissions in the way of drawing initial letters
for the paper.

Henning was then nominated cartoonist; Brine, Phillips, and Newman, artists-in-ordinary; and
Lemon, Coyne, Mayhew, à Beckett, and Wills, the literary Staff, until the advent of the others,
whose adhesion was anxiously awaited. Henry Mayhew, Mark Lemon, and Stirling Coyne were to
be joint editors; Last, of course, was to be printer, and Landells engraver; and W. Bryant
publisher. Several more meetings were held--at the "Crown" in Vinegar Yard, at Landells' house,
and elsewhere--and in due course Mark Lemon produced the draft prospectus, consisting of three
folios of blue paper, which probably contains a good deal more of Mayhew and Coyne than of
Mark Lemon. Edmund Yates estimated its chemical composition thus:--

  Henry Mayhew      95
  Stirling Coyne     3
  W. H. Wills        1.5
  Mark Lemon          .5
                  ------
                   100

And his estimate was probably correct. This interesting document is here shown in reduced facsimile:--

At the head of this announcement there was a woodcut of Lord Morpeth, Lord Melbourne (Prime
Minister), and Lord John Russell, who were then in office, but were popularly, and correctly,
supposed to be in imminent danger of defeat. The price originally proposed was twopence--the
usual price of similar papers of the day--but it was altered to "the irresistibly comic charge
of threepence!!" and the title was being given as "The Fun----," when the writer stopped short
and erased it. It is generally believed that the intention was to call the paper "The Funny
Dog--with Comic Tales," as appears in the final line of the prospectus; a title, moreover,
that was employed in 1857 for a book in which more than one Punch man co-operated. A reduced
copy of the now rare leaflet as it was printed and circulated by tens of thousands is given
on the previous page. "Vates," it should be explained, was the nom de plume of the notorious
sporting tipster then attached to "Bell's Life in London."

As to the origin of Punch's name, there are as many versions as of the origin of Punch itself.
Hodder declares that it was Mayhew's sudden inspiration. Last asserted that when "somebody"
at the "Edinburgh Castle" meeting spoke of the paper, like a good mixture of punch, being nothing
without Lemon, Mayhew caught at the idea and cried, "A capital idea! We'll call it Punch!"
Jovial Hal Baylis it was, says another, who, when refreshment time came round (it was always
coming round with him), gave the hint so readily taken. Mrs. Brezzi, wife of the sculptor,
lays the scene of the first meeting in the "Wrekin Tavern," Broad Street, Longacre, and writes
that the founders were only prevented from calling the paper "Cupid," with Lord Brougham in
that character on the title-page [presumably a mistake for Lord Palmerston, who subsequently
was so shown in Punch by Brine, picking his teeth with his arrow] by the sight from Joseph
Allen's window of a Punch and Judy show in the north-eastern corner of Trafalgar Square. Mrs.
Bacon, Mark Lemon's niece, informs me that she distinctly remembers being seated among the
gentlemen who met at his rooms in Newcastle Street, and hearing Henry Mayhew suddenly exclaim,
"Let the name be 'Punch'!"--a fact engraven on her memory through her childish passion for
the reprobate old puppet. Mr. E. Stirling Coyne claims that it was his father who suggested
the title at the memorable meeting at Allen's. This, at least, in Lemon's words, is certain:
"It was called Punch because it was short and sweet. And Punch is an English institution. Everyone
loves Punch, and will be drawn aside to listen to it. All our ideas connected with Punch are
happy ones." The decision was not set aside when it was found that Jerrold had edited a "Punch
in London" years before, proposed to him a few months earlier by Mr. Mills (of Mills, Jowett,
and Mills). But the favour with which the title was received was not universal. "I remember,"
Mr. Birket Foster tells me, "Landells coming into the workshop and saying, 'Well, boys, the
title for the new work is to be Punch.' When he was gone, we said it was a very stupid one,
little thinking what a great thing it was to become."

The business plan was to be a co-operative one. Mayhew, Lemon, and Coyne, it was finally agreed,
were to be co-editors and own one-third share as payment.[3] Last was to find the printing
and own one share, and Landells was to find drawings and engraving, and own one share. The
claims of outside contributors (among whom were Jerrold and à Beckett) and the paper-maker's
bill were to be the first charge on the proceeds; and if these were not enough, Landells and
Last were to make up the deficiency. So, on the same plan as the first abortive attempt of
a "London Charivari," the new paper was embarked on, by men who with but little capital ("it
was started with £25--which I found!" says Landells) yet threw themselves into it, and became
their own publishers. Advertising to the extent of £111 12s. was ventured on, including "billing
in 6 Mags.," "page in 'Master Humphrey's Clock' twice," 100,000 of the prospectuses reproduced
on p. 23,[4] and 2,000 window-bills that bore the design which Henning drew for Punch's cover,
after a rough sketch by Landells.

It was a busy fortnight; and it may well be doubted if any other journal of such great eventual
popularity has ever been launched with so little preparation. Every technical detail identical
with what was employed up to recent years was settled; Henning drew his ill-composed cartoon
of "Parliamentary Candidates under Different Heads," roughly done, but not ill-cut; and Mark
Lemon, Henry Mayhew, Henry Grattan, Joseph Allen, F. G. Tomlins, Gilbert à Beckett, and W.
H. Wills (the biting epigram "To the Black-balled of the United Service Club," i.e. Lord Cardigan,
was his), all contributed to the first number. It is an axiom of newspaper conductors that
"the first number is always the worst number," and Punch did nothing to disprove the rule.
Nevertheless, it was a great success. The tone and quality were far higher in dignity and excellence
than was common to an avowedly smart and comic paper--far different from what is suggested
by the word "Charivari;" and the public admitted that here was a novel school of comic writing,
by a motley moralist and punning philosopher, and hailed with pleasure the advent of a "New
Humour."

"Out came the first number," wrote Landells. "I shall never forget the excitement of that first
number! It was so great that Mr. Mayhew, Mr. Lemon, and myself, sat up all night at the printer's,
waiting to see it printed." When "our Mr. Bryant," as the publisher was called, opened the
publishing office on that memorable 17th of July, at 13, Wellington Street, Strand, the unexpected
demand for the paper raised the expectations and enthusiasm of the confederates to the highest
pitch. Mayhew, with Hodder and Landells, walked up and down outside the office and in the neighbouring
Strand, discussing the paper and its prospects, and constantly calling to hear from Bryant
how things were progressing. At news of each fresh thousand sold, their spirits rose, and their
anxiety became satisfaction when the whole edition of five thousand had been taken up by the
trade, and another like edition was called for, and, on the following day, was sold out. Ten
thousand copies! Ten thousand proofs, they took it, of public sympathy and encouragement.

Such is the outline of Punch's conception and birth, based on many original documents and a
mass of evidence, as well as on the independent testimony collected from survivors. In the
words of Mr. Jabez Hogg, "Landells and Henry Mayhew were certainly the founders"--the former
conceiving the idea of the paper which was presently established, and the latter developing
it, as set forth, according to his original views--founding the tradition and personality of
"Mr. Punch," and converting him from a mere strolling puppet, an irresponsible jester, into
the laughing philosopher and man of letters, the essence of all wit, the concentration of all
wisdom, the soul of honour, the fountain of goodness, and the paragon of every virtue.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] An example of these amusing and confusing contentions is the popular--I might almost say
classic--witticism which is often resurrected at the expense of Punch. Once in a company of
choice spirits Somebody suggested, when "our leading comic" was being discussed, that it would
surely be an original idea and a good speculation to "start a comic Punch." Douglas Jerrold,
says one writer, aimed the dart at Mark Lemon. Mr. W. S. Gilbert, according to a world-travelled
newspaper paragraph, let off the gibe at his friend Mr. Burnand. Laman Blanchard, says another
journalist, surprised Jerrold into silence with the taunt. Mark Lemon, declares another, threatened
his proprietors with it in a moment of anger; while Mr. Walford told me that it was certainly
first spoken of by George Grossmith, senr., of humorous memory. But Hodder and Vizetelly agree
in fathering it on Blanchard's son, Sidney, at the time when Gilbert à Beckett's "Comic Blackstone"
and comic histories were delighting all true connoisseurs of burlesque. Sidney Blanchard, Hodder
reminds us, was possessed of a quaint wit, which was wont to deliver itself in a manner such
as that in which he referred to a cashier who was never behind his desk when money was to be
paid out: "Compared with him," said he, "the eel is an adhesive animal."

[2] This little conceit greatly pleased its author. He makes Mrs. Caudle exclaim, when protesting
against her spouse's lapse into billiards--"There's the manly and athletic game of cribbage!"

[3] So ignorant were their immediate successors of the events I am relating that in a letter
written in confutation of the assertion that Gilbert à Beckett had been an editor of Punch,
Shirley Brooks said: "From the first the editorship was in the hands of my predecessor, Mark
Lemon; the opening address was from his pen, and he was sole editor from July 17th, 1841 (the
day of the birth of the publication) until May 23rd, 1870, the day of his lamented death."
In the Jubilee number of Punch this misconception was confirmed upon the authority of this
statement of Shirley Brooks.

[4] These prospectuses cost a penny for twenty; they are now worth a guinea each.

The public reception of the first number of Punch was varied in character. Mr. Watts, R.A.,
once told me that the paper was regarded with but little encouragement by the occupants of
an omnibus in which he was riding, one gentleman, after looking gravely through its pages,
tossing it aside with the remark, "One of those ephemeral things they bring out; won't last
a fortnight!" Dr. Thompson, Master of Trinity, informed Professor Herkomer that he, too, was
riding in an omnibus on the famous 17th of July, when he bought a copy from a paper-boy, and
began to look at it with curiosity. When he chuckled at the quaint wit of the thing, "Do you
find it amusing, sir?" asked a lady, who was observing him narrowly. "Oh, yes." "I'm so glad,"
she replied; "my husband has been appointed editor; he gets twenty pounds a week!" One may
well wonder who was this sanguine and trustful lady. Mr. Frith describes how, having overheard
Joe Allen tell a friend, in the gallery of the Society of British Artists, to "look out for
our first number; we shall take the town by storm!" he duly looked out, but was disappointed
at finding nothing in it by Leech; and how when he went to a shop for the second number, to
see if his idol had drawn anything for it, the newsman replied, "'What paper, sir? Oh, Punch!
Yes, I took a few of the first number; but it's no go. You see, they billed it about a good
deal' (how well I recollect that expression!), 'so I wanted to see what it was like. It won't
do; it's no go.'"

The reception by the press was more encouraging--that is to say, by the provincial press, for
the London papers took mighty little notice of the newcomer. The "Morning Advertiser," it is
true, quaintly declared in praise of the "exquisite woodcuts, serious and comic," that they
were "executed in the first style of art, at a price so low that we really blush to name it;"
while the "Sunday Times" and a number of provincial papers of some slight account in their
day professed astonishment at the absence of grossness, partisanship, profanity, indelicacy,
and malice from its pages. "It is the first comic we ever saw," said the "Somerset County Gazette,"
"which was not vulgar. It will provoke many a hearty laugh, but never call a blush to the most
delicate cheek." They vied with each other in their vocabulary of praise; and as to Punch's
quips and sallies, his puns, his propriety, his "pencillings," and his cuts--they simply defied
description; you just cracked your sides with laughter at the jokes, and that was all about it.

Yet, notwithstanding all this praise, the paper did not prosper; but whether it was that the
price did not suit the public, although the "Advertiser" really blushed to name it, or that
Punch had not yet educated his Party, cannot be decided. The support of the public did not
lift it above a circulation of from five to six thousand, and on the appearance of the fifth
number Jerrold muttered with a snort, "I wonder if there will ever be a tenth!" Everything
that could be done to command attention, with the limited funds at disposal, was done. No sooner
was Lord Melbourne's Administration defeated and discredited (for the Premier was angrily denounced
for hanging on to office), than Punch displayed a huge placard across the front of his offices
inscribed, "Why is Punch like the late Government? Because it is JUST OUT!!" And no device
of the sort, or other artifice that could be suggested to the resourceful minds in Punch's
cabinet, was left untried. Things were against Punch. It was not only that the public was neglectful,
unappreciative. There was prejudice to live down; there were stamp duty, advertisement duty,
and paper duty to stand up to; and there were no Smiths or Willings, or other great distributing
agencies, to assist.

While Bryant was playing his uphill game, Punch, written by educated men, was doing his best
not only to attract politicians and lovers of humour and satire, but to enlist also the support
of scholars, to whom at that time no comic paper had avowedly appealed; and it is doubtless
due to the assumption that his readers, like his writers, were gentlemen of education, that
he quickly gained the reputation of being entitled to a place in the library and drawing-room,
diffusing, so to speak, an odour of culture even in those early days of his first democratic
fervour. We had a German "Punchlied," Greek Anakreontics, and plenty of Latin--not merely Leigh's
mock-classic verses, but efforts of a higher humour and a purer kind, such, among many more,
as the "Petronius," and the clever interlinear burlesque translations of Horace which came
from the pen of H. A. Kennedy. Then "Answers to Correspondents" were maintained for a while
inside the wrapper, which were witty enough to justify their existence. But it was felt that
something more was wanted to make the paper "move;" and the first "Almanac" was decided upon.

The circulation meanwhile had not risen above six thousand, and ten thousand were required
to make the paper pay. Stationer and contributors had all been paid, and "stock" was now valued
at £250. That there was a constant demand for these back numbers (on September 27th, 1841,
for example, £1 3s. 4-1/2d.-worth were sold "over the counter"), was held to prove that the
work was worth pushing; but it seemed that for want of capital it would go the way of many
another promising concern. The difficulties into which Punch had fallen soon got noised abroad,
and offers of assistance, not by any means disinterested, were not wanting to remind the stragglers
of their position. Helping hands were certainly put out, but only that money might be dropped
in. Then Last declined to go on. He had neither the patience nor the speculative courage of
the Northumbrian engraver, and money had, not without great difficulty and delay, been found
to pay him for his share--which had hitherto been a share only of loss. The firm of Bradbury
and Evans had been looked to as a deus ex machinâ to take over the printing, and lift Punch
out of the quagmire by acquiring Last's share and interest for £150. The offer was entertained,
and an agreement drafted on September 25th, when, on the very same day, Bradbury and Evans
wrote to withdraw, on the ground that they found the proposed acquisition "would involve them
in the probable loss of one of their most valuable connections." Landells, who always regarded
this action--without any definite grounds that I can discover--as a diplomatic move to involve
him and his friends still more, so that more advantageous salvage terms might be made, hurriedly
cast about for other succour, and alighted on one William Wood, printer, who lent money, but
whose agreement as a whole was not executed, as it was considered "either usurious or exorbitant"
by their solicitors, who characteristically concluded their bill thus:--"Afterwards attending
at the office in Wellington Street to see as to making the tender, and to advise you on the
sufficiency thereof, but you were not there; afterwards attending at Mr. H. Mayhew's lodging,
but he was out; afterwards attending at Mr. Lemon's, and he was out; and we were given to understand
you had all gone to Gravesend"--showing the one touch of nature which made all Punch-men kin.

In due course Landells acquired Last's share, and the printing was executed successively by
Mr. Mitchell and by Mills, Jowett, and Mills, until it slid by a sort of natural gravitation
into the hands of Bradbury and Evans. Landells had endeavoured to interest his friends in the
paper, but soon discovered the fatal truth that one's closest friends are never so close as
when it is a question of money.

Then came the Almanac, upon which were based many hopes that were destined to be more than
realised. It has hitherto been considered as the work of Dr. Maginn, at that time, as at many
others, an unwilling sojourner in a debtor's prison. But H. P. Grattan has since claimed the
distinction of being, like the doctor, an inmate of the retreat known as Her Majesty's Fleet,
where he was visited by Henry Mayhew. Mayhew, he said, lived surreptitiously with him for a
week, and during that time, without any assistance from Dr. Maginn, they brought the whole
work to a brilliant termination. Thirty-five jokes a day to each man's credit for seven consecutive
days in the melancholy privacy of a prison cell is certainly a very remarkable feat--hardly
less so than the alleged fact that Mayhew, who proposed the Almanac, as he proposed so many
other good things for Punch, should have gone to the incarcerated Grattan for sole assistance,
when he and his co-editors had so many capable colleagues at large. The claim does not deserve
full credence, especially in face of Landells' declaration that "everyone engaged on it worked
so admirably together, and it was done so well, that the town was taken by surprise, and the
circulation went up in that one week from 6,000 to 90,000--an increase, I believe, unprecedented
in the annals of publishing." The Almanac became at once the talk of the day; everybody had
read it, and a contemporary critic declared that its cuts "would elicit laughter from toothache,
and render gout oblivious of his toe."

Now, although Bradbury and Evans had hesitated to become proprietors, they had had no objection
to act as printers and publishers, and when the editors approached them they lent a ready ear.
"It was Uncle Mark," said "Pater" Evans at the "Gentleman's Magazine" dinner in 1868, "who
was the chief conspirator when they brought Punch to Whitefriars; it was his eloquence alone
that induced us to buy Punch. Jerrold did not say much, but he supported his friend, you may
be sure. They talked us over very easily." They bought the editors' share for £200, which they
advanced on the security of the whole. Into the circumstances of the subsequent squabbles between
Landells and the firm it is not needful to enter. He bitterly complained that he could obtain
neither statements of accounts nor satisfactory arrangement, while the firm withheld their
favourable consideration of the agreements his solicitors sent them to sign. The negotiations
proceeded wearily from April, 1842, to December 24th, with rising wrath on the part of the
good-hearted, impatient Northumbrian, who could neither understand nor brook the repeated delays,
and fairly boiled over with indignation, suspicion, and wrath. In despair, so Landells recorded,
that his lawyers could get no satisfaction, and yet "not willing to put the whole thing into
Chancery," he blurted out that he should buy back Bradbury and Evans' share or they acquire
his. As cool business men they promptly asked his price. He named £450, ultimately reducing
it to £400, and further to £350, on the understanding, he says, that he should continue to
act as engraver; and great were his anger and humiliation when he found after the second week
of the new régime that the engraving was taken from him. But it is only fair to say that in
his lawyer's instructions there is evidence that Bradbury and Evans persistently declined to
give up their freedom in the matter of the engraving. The transfer then took place.[5] On December
23rd, 1842, the firm was already speaking with some authority; the voice was the voice of the
printers, but the tone was the tone of proprietors. And that was the passing of Punch. Earlier
in the year Landells had made an effort to save the paper by persuading those who worked for
it to take shares. With a few he was successful; others were less speculative, so the writer
was informed by the late H. G. Hine. "Landells," he said, "asked me to take a share in the
paper, but, not being a business man, I declined. When the paper changed hands, Bradbury and
Evans bought it for so small an increase on the actual losses and debts, that each man, when
the profits were divided, received two-and-sixpence each." Not long after Landells ceased his
connection with Punch, Douglas Jerrold met Vizetelly, and acquainted him with the turn of the
tide. "Punch is getting on all right now," he said; and added, in his saturnine way, "It began
to do so immediately we threw that engraving Jonah overboard!" Yet Jerrold was glad enough
to take advantage of the engraving Jonah's influence the following year, when Landells, with
Herbert Ingram, N. Cooke, T. Roberts, W. Little, and R. Palmer started the "Illuminated Magazine,"
and installed him as editor at a handsome salary.

The following page from Landells' rather rough-and-ready accounts will give some idea of how
financial matters stood between the parties at the time of the transfer:--

         B. & E. CASH RECD.          |          B. & E. CASH PAID.
                                     |
                            £  s. d. |                          £  s. d.
                                     |
 Accts.                  1,278  6  9 |Cash paid to Artists,
 Editors, Artists, paid    507  4  6 |  Editors, etc.          507  4  6
                         ----------- |B. & E. for printing     605 10  6
                           771  2  3 |
 B. & E. acct.             605 10  6 |
                         ----------- |
 Balance in hand          £165 11  9 |
 ------------------------------------+----------------------------------
             E. LANDELLS.            |      LEMON, COYNE, AND MAYHEW.
                                     |
                            £  s. d. |                          £  s. d.
                                     |
 To Engravings             315  4  0 |To Editing               400  0  0
 Cash                       25  0  0 |1/2 debt                 100  0  0
 Paid contributions at               |                         ---------
   £6. 0. The original Agreement between the original founders of Punch
     already enumerated. This is dated July 14th, 1841--only three days
     before the appearance of the paper. It is printed at length as
     Appendix 1 to this volume.

     2. Agreement between Bradbury and Evans and "Punchites," whereby in
     consideration of a loan of £150 the printing of the paper is
     assured to the firm. This is dated Oct., 1841, the signatories
     being E. Landells, Mark Lemon, Henry Mayhew, and Stirling Coyne,
     with W. H. Wills and G. Windsor as witnesses.

     3. The assignment to Landells of Punch and the stock-in-trade by
     Lemon, Mayhew, and Stirling Coyne. Dated December 6th, 1841.

     4. Assignment to Bradbury and Evans by Landells of his two-thirds
     share of Punch. Dated, July 25th, 1842.

     5. Assignment of his remaining one-third to Bradbury and Evans by
     Landells, in consideration of £100 cash and their acceptance for
     £250 due Jan. 31st, 1843, their mortgage on this share to be
     cancelled. This deed is dated Dec. 29th, 1842, and is in the terms
     of Landells' letter of agreement of the previous 24th.]

The new proprietors, when they acquired their interest in Punch, were not then distinguished
publishers such as they soon became; they were essentially printers, and had few connections
to assist them in making it into a paying property. They had, however, W. S. Orr & Co. (the
London agents of Chambers, of Edinburgh), who had fallen into financial difficulties, and looked
to Bradbury and Evans to help them out; and through their organisation Punch was taken up by
the trade "on sale or return." To work up the sale of a threepenny publication was at that
time a formidable task; but Orr certainly accomplished it, and for a time Punch undoubtedly
owed more to his efforts than to Jerrold's pen or Leech's pencil. The head of the firm, in
both senses, was William Bradbury, the keenest man of business that ever trod the flags of
Fleet Street, and the founder of a dynastic line nearly as long and eminent as that of John
Murray himself. His portrait may be seen in Punch more than once--for example, in Tenniel's
drawing of the Staff at play at the beginning of Vol. XXVII, 1854, where his tall, imposing
figure contrasts with that of his partner, Frederick Mullett ("Pater") Evans, who appears with
shining spectacles, beaming countenance, and convex waistcoat. Jolly old "Pater," who died
in 1870, was the model of Leech's pater-familias; and it is remembered to his credit that he
never resented the liberty taken with him by Thackeray in "The Kickleburys on the Rhine." It
has always been the graceful and feeling practice of Punch, ever since the death of Dr. Maginn,
to whom a kindly obituary was devoted in 1842, to do honour in his pages to each of his lieutenants
as they drop out of the ranks, recognising misfortune and death--both "devil's inventions,"
as Ruskin calls them--as toll-gates on the path of life, with sorrow as the tax; so that these
more solemn articles and mortuary elegies seem to mark the way, like milestones set by loving
hands. To Evans one of these was raised, and we read in it that "they who inscribe these lines
to his memory will never lament a more kind, more genial, or more loyal friend."

The next head of the firm was William Hardwick Bradbury, who had been at school with Mr. Justice
Romer, the husband of Mark Lemon's daughter; and the house then became Bradbury, Evans & Co.
He married the daughter of Mr. Thomas Agnew; and when, in 1872, Mr. F. M. Evans (the son of
"Pater") left the firm, after having attended the Dinner for five years as the son of his father,
and sat for another seven years at the tail of the Table by right of proprietorship, the business
was reinforced by the inclusion of the house of Agnew. It then became Bradbury, Agnew & Co.,
and it has been thought that Sir William Agnew's personality has tended to colour Punch up
to a certain point with just a shade of his own Liberal political opinions. Messrs. W. H. Bradbury,
William Agnew, Thomas Agnew, and John Henry Agnew were then the members of the firm, which
a few years since was converted into a limited company; and on the death of the first-named,
Mr. W. Lawrence Bradbury took his father's place as managing head of the house, with Mr. Philip
Agnew as colleague: young men, surely, to succeed to the direction of a house which had been
the publisher of Thackeray and Dickens, founders of "The Field," "The Army and Navy Gazette,"
printers of the "Family Herald" and "London Journal," of the "Daily News," the "English Encyclopedia,"
and other huge undertakings. With the advent of the younger generation came some of those technical
alterations and improvements which have brought the production of Punch abreast of the times;
but the older traditions, in particular that great institution of the Punch Dinner, have been
reverently and lovingly retained in all their admirable features.

It is not surprising that after the striking success of the experiment the Almanac became a
permanent annual institution. Into so important a publication did it develop, commercially
speaking, that a special "Almanac Dinner" has up to recent years always been considered necessary,
at which its chief contents are arranged, just as at the ordinary weekly Dinner. Hine, Kenny
Meadows, and others assisted in the production of the first two or three Almanacs; but after
that, and for many years, practically the whole of the illustrative work usually fell on the
broad and entirely competent shoulders of John Leech, especially after Doyle's secession. From
time to time experiments have been made in the direction of novelty. Thus in 1848, in consequence
of the great popularity of the issue, a luxurious edition was prepared, at the price of five
shillings for the coloured and half that sum for the uncoloured copies, wherein, it was claimed,
"full effect is given to the artists' designs." It was certainly an imposing affair, with meadows
of margin, and printed on one side only of the thick paper; and it now commands a price in
the bookshops of five or six times its original cost.

Humour for private as well as for public consumption has always been a rule in the Punch circle;
and in 1865, a year in which influenza colds were extremely prevalent, this pleasing faculty
was given full scope. Most of the Staff that Christmas were afflicted with severe colds; so
with amiable consideration the copies of the Almanac provided for them and for some of the
chief contributors were printed upon linen--lest their supply of handkerchiefs should run short.
They were charming and cheerful in appearance, being handsomely bound and stitched with red,
and presented unusual advantages in the way of utility and entertainment. Of recent years the
Almanacs have had admirably drawn wrappers, specially designed. In 1882 Mr. Burnand tested
the powers of our humorous painters outside, in addition to Punch's own Staff, including Mr.
Stacy Marks, R.A., Mr. G. A. Storey, A.R.A., and Sir John Gilbert, R.A.; but the result was
an argument in favour of Staff-work over outside contribution. Among other experiments, colour
was tried with a view to rendering further homage to Sir John Tenniel's cartoon, by printing
it on a tinted background, in the manner of Matt Morgan's famous designs in the "Tomahawk."
But the idea, which originated with the late Mr. Bradbury, did not answer expectations, and
the attempt was abandoned.

The success that immediately attended the Almanac naturally attracted the attention of the
pirates, and hatched the brood of spurious and coarse imitations given forth by such notorious
printers and publishers as Goode, Lloyd, and Lyle. But Punch had a short legal way with him
that soon scared them off, and the merry Hunchback is now left supreme in his own sphere. He
not only, as the "Times" said, "commences the winter season for us with the 'Almanac,' but
he continues the tradition of Charles Dickens by retaining for Christmastide much of the fine
hearty old flavour which the great novelist imparted to it--that jovial, tender, charitable,
roast-goose spirit that exhales from it, the Spirits of Christmas Present and Christmas Past."
"Christmas without the Christmas number of Punch," exclaimed the "Saturday Review" not long
ago, "would be a Christmas without plum-pudding, mince-pies, turkey, and children's parties--it
would not be Christmas at all!"

Another result of the constant search for freshness was the changing of the design on the cover
of each consecutive volume. Any change from that of Henning could only be a change for the
better, so a second application was made to Hablôt Knight Browne ("Phiz") for his collaboration.
Well satisfied by this time with the tone of the paper, he gladly responded. The result was
a refined and artistic page, crowded with figures, rather graceful and quaint than funny; and
although, to Leech's horror, a barrel-organ figured in it, it served its purpose admirably.

For the next volume a sketch was made by H. G. Hine, based on a slighter one by Landells. It
was not used, however, as intended, but adapted as the index-heading; and William Harvey, the
Shakespearian illustrator, was requested to undertake a design to replace it. This, though
yet more graceful than Browne's, was less suitable than ever. Babes like amorini toying with
Punch's cap and bâton, bells and mask, were very pretty and charming, but a good deal too much
in the style of Rubens or Stothard; and what was thought more unsuitable still was the price.
Mr. Birket Foster has borne witness to the consternation in the office when the charge of twelve
guineas was sent in with the design--nearly half the total capital with which Landells a year
before had begun the concern!

Six months later Sir John Gilbert--then a youth doing great things for the "Illustrated London
News"--was commissioned to draw another front page. This was subsequently used until recent
years as the pink cover of Punch's monthly parts. A cover was produced by Kenny Meadows, and
then for January, 1844, Richard Doyle, the latest recruit, whose merit had been quickly gauged,
was employed to execute the new one. This wrapper was far more in accord with the true spirit
of Punch. More sportive and rollicking, and with less attempt at grace, it threw over the style
of the "Newcastle School"--of which Landells was a member--and gave the general idea of the
latest of all covers. This was not executed until January, 1849, when several changes of detail
were made, including the substitution of the smug lion's head for that of Judy in the canvas--the
whole so successful that it may safely be predicted that it will never be superseded.

Such are the covers--comprising what Mr. W. Bradbury used to call "our wardrobe of old coats"--which,
though interesting enough in themselves, certainly included nothing to equal the last design,
by which Doyle's name is best known throughout the artistic world.

Guided by the success of the first Almanac, the conductors decided to work the same oracle
by publishing "extra numbers" at every promising opportunity. "Mr. Mayhew, Mr. Jerrold, and
I," says Landells, "happened to spend a few days in the summer at Herne Bay, and there 'Punch's
Visit to the Watering Places' was projected. These articles gave Punch another great lift.
Messrs. Mayhew, Mark Lemon, Douglas Jerrold, and I, did Herne Bay, Margate, Broadstairs, and
Ramsgate, and I never enjoyed myself more than on this, to me, memorable occasion. Albert Smith
did Brighton. Punch thenceforth became an established favourite with the public, and the weekly
circulation averaged over 30,000."

Just before this lucky stroke, another not less fortunate as a succes d'estime, if nothing
more, was "Punch's Valentines"--at that time considered a most remarkable production; for there
were no fewer than twelve half-page engravings within its full-page borders--a generous amount
that puzzled the public far more than ten times as much and as good would do to-day. Kenny
Meadows, "Phiz,"[6] Leech, Crowquill, Henning, and Newman, contributed each two "valentines,"
which were addressed to various sorts and conditions of people, accompanied by verses of considerable
humour and more than average merit. Thus, to the lawyer--whom "Phiz" has represented as a mixture,
in equal parts, of Squeers, Brass, and Quilp--the lines begin in a manner not unworthy of Hood
himself:--

  "Lend me your ears, thou man of law,
  While I my declaration draw,
      Your heart in fee surrender;
  As plaintiff I my suit prefer,
  'Twould be uncivil to demur,
      Then let your plea be--tender."

The invocation which follows, to a gorgeous footman, by some love-smitten serving-maid, ends--

  "But now fare thee well!--with your ultimate breath,
  When you answer the door to the knocking of Death,
  On your conscience, believe me, 'twill terribly dwell,
  If now you refuse to attend to the belle!"

In August, 1850, in the extra number called "Punch's Holidays," that was done for the outskirts
of London which eight years before had been done for the watering-places. It was illustrated
by Leech and Doyle, and, it may be added, the Hampton Court section was written by Thackeray.
Then when the great Shakespeare Tercentenary was being celebrated, with singularly little éclat
so far as the Shakespeare Committee itself was concerned, Punch produced his "Tercentenary
Number." It was in all respects admirable, and Tenniel's double-page cartoon was a striking
success--as might have been expected from a Staff so remarkably well versed in Shakespeare.
In that cartoon the poet's triumphal car, drawn by twin Pegasi and driven by Mr. Punch, is
followed by a motley procession, in which Mark Lemon, in the character of John Bull, appears
adapted as Prospero (one of the best of the many portraits of the editor that have appeared
in the paper), while a typically malignant organ-grinder is Caliban, and all the leading statesmen
and sovereigns are represented in Shakespearian character appropriate to the circumstances;
the "Standard" and "Morning Herald," two of Punch's pet aversions and journalistic butts, bringing
up the rear as the Witches in "Macbeth," Mesdames Gamp and Harris. The illustrators of this
exceptionally happy number were--besides Sir John Tenniel--Charles Keene, Mr. du Maurier, and
Mr. Fairfield.

Then came the unwieldy "Records of the Great Exhibition, extracted from Punch" on October 4th,
1851. Punch had made a dead-set against the exhibition in Hyde Park (until his friend Paxton
was appointed its architect, subsequently earning £20,000 by the work), and, according to Mr.
Justin McCarthy, "was hardly ever weary of making fun of it ... and nothing short of complete
success could save it from falling under a mountain of ridicule. The Prince did not despair,
however, and the project went on." And when it was a fait accompli, Punch, good man of business
that he was, at once put it to the best possible advantage, by issuing his enormous "extra"
of nine previously-published cartoons by Tenniel and Leech, and many other cuts besides--the
whole, in point of its double-folio size, more suitable for street display than library reading.
The price was sixpence, and with all the special matter it contained it was one of the cheapest
productions ever issued from that office.

With the special Paris Exhibition number, produced in celebration of the Exhibition of 1889,
the list of extra numbers issued by Punch for general circulation comes to a close. Nearly
the whole of the Staff, including the proprietors, travelled to Paris together--how luxuriously,
Mr. Furniss's drawing of their dining-saloon gives a good notion; it contains (with Sir John
Tenniel and Mr. Lucy) portraits of all who were present. Charles Keene had stayed at home;
he felt unequal to the jaunt, and was, in fact, sickening for the mortal illness which soon
had him in its grip. The "Paris Sketches" in the number that bear his signature were--like
the "war correspondence from the front" concocted in Fleet Street--quietly drawn at home down
at Chelsea. One thing primarily the number showed: that Punch's national prejudices have mellowed
with time, and that a Frenchman may be accepted as a cultivated gentleman and a genial companion--a
very different being to him whom Leech habitually drew as a flabby-faced refugee in Leicester
Square, "with estaminet clearly written across his features," while Thackeray applauded the
conception in his most righteous hatred and contempt for all things vile.

Two other special means has Punch adopted with the view of pleasing his constituents and confounding
his enemies, exclusive of the mock Mulready envelope known as the "Anti-Graham Envelope" and
the "Wafers," which are elsewhere referred to. The first of these was the music occasionally
printed in his pages from the hand of his own particular maestro, Tully, the well-known member
of the Punch Club, whose musical setting of "The Queen's Speech, as it is to be sung by the
Lord Chancellor," appeared in 1843; the polka, at the time when that dance was a novel and
a national craze, dedicated to the well-known dancing-master, Baron Nathan; "Punch's Mazurka,"
in Vol. VIII. (1845); and one or two other pieces besides. The other was a coloured picture
representing a "plate"--a satire on the poor and inartistic "coloured plates" then being issued
by S. C. Hall's "Art Union." It was a clever lithographic copy of an ordinary "willow pattern"
plate; a homely piece of crockery, broken and riveted, beneath which is inscribed: "To the
Subscribers to the Art Union this beautiful plate (from the original in the possession of the
Artist) is presented, as the finest specimen of British Art, by Punch." It was designed by
Horace Mayhew; but the edition was extremely limited--not a hundred copies, it is understood--on
account of the expense, which it was thought was not justified by the excellence or the likely
popularity of the joke.

Such have been some of Punch's efforts outside the usual routine, and the result has been the
continual popularisation of the paper. Volume after volume, too, in various forms, has been
republished, culminating in the "Victorian Era," "Pictures from Punch," and "Sir John Tenniel's
Cartoons;" and each one has but served to attract the favourable notice of the public to the
ordinary issue. So Punch has developed his power and his resources. To him one might almost
apply what a Welshman said of his friend: "I knew him when he wass a ferry poor man--quite
a poor man walking about in the village; and now he drives in his carriage and twice!"

FOOTNOTES:

[5] When the purchase was completed, a curious making-up of accounts proceeded between the
parties as to the wood-blocks which were to accompany the paper. These accounts, referring
to the titles of the engravings, read curiously enough. Here is a specimen:--

 No. 22.                                     £12 10 6
 Deduct Collared Beef                             4 6
                                             ---  ---
                                                              £12 6 0

 No. 25.

 Brown's wrapper (i.e. Frontispiece
 drawn by "Phiz"--Hablôt
 K. Browne)                                   15 12 6         12 12 0
                                       Deduct  2  7 0
                                             ---  ---
                                               13 5 6
 No. 32.

            Deduct. £ s. d.               Add. £ s. d.
           Bald Head  0  8  0       Concert-piece  0  5  0
  Great Sale in Beer  0  4  0       Collared Beef  0  4  6
          Highwayman  0  5  0    All round my hat  0 10  0
       Leg of Mutton  0  5  0           Tall Lady  0  8  0
 Turning over a Page  0  3  0            Adder-up  0  5  0  14  18  0
            Betrayed  0  5  0
            Letter P  0 15  0
                      ---  ---
                     £2  7  0

These cuts were for the most part drawn by Brine, Hine, and Newman.

[6] It is a curious fact that the biographer of Hablôt K. Browne is altogether silent on his
Punch work, although it lasted with intervals over a quarter of a century. The particulars
of this work are referred to further on, when Punch's artists are passed in review.

CHAPTER III.

  "Here let us sport,
  Boys, as we sit;
  Laughter and wit
  Flashing so free.
  Life is but short--
  When we are gone,
  Let them sing on,
  Round the old tree."

    --Thackeray's "Mahogany Tree."

Among the Parliaments of Wits and the Conclaves of Humorists the weekly convention known as
"the Punch Dinner" holds highest rank, if importance is to be judged by results and pre-eminence
by renown. For three-and-fifty years have these illustrious functions been held, fifty to the
year. And those two thousand six hundred and fifty meals mark off, week by week, the progress
of English humour during the Victorian era--not the humour of literature alone, but the humour,
as well as the technical excellence, of one of the noblest and most vigorous and delightful
of all the sections of English art.

This solemn festivity, therefore, has a solid claim to being included among the scenes of English
artist-life. If it be conceded, as I think it must, that Punch has been for half a century
an effective, even a glorious, school of art--of drawing in black-and-white and of wood-cutting
alike--it follows that the weekly repast which has helped to bring these things about claims
attention and respect among the Diets of the world, and demands a first place in virtue of
public service and by right of artistic performance.

But it is not in the spirit nor with the fashionable view of the Royal Academicians and their
imposing banquet that the members of the Punch staff hold their weekly junket. "We English,"
said Douglas Jerrold, "would dine to celebrate the engulfing of England." Yet if "the Punchites"
share the feeling of old Timon that "we must dine together," it is neither for purposes of
self-congratulation, nor yet of hospitality. Though good-fellowship is near the genesis of
the institution, work and serious aim are at the root of it all, and in the midst of all the
merry-making are never for a moment forgotten.

Nevertheless, conviviality, you may be sure, counted for something in the arrangement when
Queen Victoria's reign was young. Clubs there were not a few about Fleet Street and the Strand,
where the men who founded Punch, and their friends and enemies alike in similar walks of life,
would hob-nob together, and where the sharp concussions of their diamond-cut-diamond wit would
emit the sparks and flashes that were remembered and straightway converted into "copy." In
those early days the flow of soul was closely regulated by the flow of liquor, and the most
modest of Dinners was food at once to body and to mind.

As in Elizabethan times, so in the days of Victoria. The Punch Dinners of the last few decades
would, in their excellence and refinement, have astonished the merry crew of old; but the entertainment
is now but the prelude to business, and not, as in the earlier struggling months, the powder
that served to fire off the great guns of humour. The weekly Dinner was evolved from the gatherings
that were held nearly every evening, as well as Saturday-nightly, in the anxious days that
preceded--and immediately succeeded, too--the laboured birth of Punch. The first of these--the
very first "Punch Dinner," strictly so-called--was held at "La Belle Sauvage," Ludgate Hill,
on the spot now occupied by the publishing firm of Cassell and Company. Hine was one of those
present at this historic feast, having been already impressed by Landells into the service
of the paper. I may add, as a matter of minor history, that Mr. Price, the owner of the hostelry,
advertised his house in the early numbers of Punch: a fact which suggests (perhaps unjustly)
a mysterious financial understanding on the score of his bill--especially as Mr. Price was
a brother-in-law of Bradbury the First. These tavern repasts were soon divided up between those
who wished to work and those who wished to play; and the Punch Dinner and the "Punch Club"
were in due course established as separate institutions. For all that, the meetings of both
were held in the "Crown Inn" in Vinegar Yard, just off Drury Lane, and the "Club" was not long
after (1843) celebrated in the pages of Punch itself by the "Professor," Percival Leigh, in
his choicest dog-Latin--his most elegant latin de cuisine--or, as he himself called it, "Anglo-Græco-Canino-Latinum."
The lines, a parody of Goldsmith's "Retaliation," begin thus:--

  "Sunt quidam jolly dogs, Saturday qui nocte frequentant
  Antiqui [Greek: Stefanon] qui stat prope moenia Drurî,
  [Greek: Boulomenoi] cum prog distendere rather,
  Indulgere jocis, necnon Baccho atque tobacco..."

--lines which, with a few of the succeeding ones, I may render thus, the spirit and the text
being followed as closely as may be:--

  "Some jolly dogs on Saturdays at fall of night are fain
  To haunt the 'Crown' beside old Drury, hard by Drury Lane;
  Their object, to expand themselves with dainties of the feed
  And give the hour to jest and wine, and smoke the fragrant weed.
  Such fellows, sure, ne'er graced before that jovial mundane hole.
  To them I sing this song of praise--those mighty men of soul,
  Whose fame henceforth shall spread abroad, so long as time shall roll.

  "The 'Crown' stands in a quiet yard, yet near the noisy street;
  'Tis their local habitation--in its dining-room they meet.
  The massive table, brightly spread, groans with the mighty feast.
  The viands change. To-day 'tis beef with Yorkshire pudding dressed;
  Next week perchance the dish that Hodge will grinningly define
  As 'leg o' mutton, boiled, with trimmings.' Heartily they dine.
  Here flows the Double X, and flows the Barclay-Perkins brew;
  Nor is there lack of modern sack that best is known to you
  When waiters call it 'off-n-off'--which waiters mostly do."

Here it was that the wits of pen and pencil first laid their heads together in the service
of Mr. Punch; and when they left for more private, if not more venerable, quarters, the room
was occupied, first, by comrades of the same order of wit--among whom Augustus Mayhew, James
Hannay, Watts Phillips, and others started a short-lived comic broad-sheet called "The Journal
for Laughter;" and then by "The Reunion Club"--a côterie which, in 1857, was to become far
more widely known under the style and title of the "Savage Club." It was situated next door
to the "Whistling Oyster," and faced a side entrance to Drury Lane Theatre--a fairly large
first-floor room, looking larger by reason of its low ceiling, but well lighted by its three
high windows. When I visited it in 1893, the wooden staircase had been replaced by a steep
stone-way; but the approach and the ascent were still steep enough to make one wonder how the
portly Lemon could, without difficulty or fear of accident, scale the classic heights, and
twist his body to the needful turns.

Although, as I have said, conviviality and convenience were essentially identified with the
Punch Dinner, especially in its embryonic stage, when frequent interviews were necessary and
the daily occupations of many of the Staff precluded an earlier attendance, it was quickly
seen that the chief practical use and effect of the Dinner was to broaden the men's view of
things, to produce harmony of tone and singleness of aim, to keep the Editor constantly in
touch with his whole Staff, and through them with the public; and thus to secure the fullest
advantage which their combined wit and counsel could afford. When the transfer of the paper
was completed from Ebenezer Landells to the house of Bradbury and Evans, the regular Dinners
were soon established at No. 11, Bouverie Street, E.C., now given over to the Posts and Telegraphs.
The second floor was considered not too undignified for the purpose; but the descent to the
first was made in good time, Mark Lemon taking the vacated room for his editorial office; and
when in 1867 a general removal was effected to No. 10, the present dining-room--or Banqueting-Hall,
as it was finely called--was specially constructed for its high purpose. At first these repasts
were held on Saturday night, when the paper was made up and sent away to press. But when the
true value of the meetings became apparent, the day was changed to Wednesday. The Dinner was
established ostensibly for the discussion and determining of the "big cut," and the function
became as exclusive and esoteric as a Masonic initiation. From that day to this it has, with
few exceptions, been held januis clausis; and beside it the Literary Ladies' Dinner and Bluebeard's
Chamber are as open to the world and free from mystery as the public streets at noon.

The room in which it was held, so long the Temple of the Comic Muse, had little in itself to
command the attention of the superficial observer. The stairs which Thackeray trod, and which
resounded to the quick light step of Jerrold and to the heavier tread of Leech, exist no longer;
but the classic shrine is practically as it was when the "Fat Contributor," pushing roughly
past the young 'prentice engraver who opened the door to his ring, gave no thought to him who
was soon to make the name of Birket Foster famous in the land.

To-day a large--one might say an imposing--apartment on the first floor looking upon the street
is approached, as most front offices in London City are approached, from a landing leading
through an open office. Upon the table are a water-jug and a couple of goblets of cheap and
distinctly unlovely Bohemian glass. A tobacco-box, hardly less ugly (coëval, one would say,
with the room itself), a snuff-box, and long pipes serve to recall that respect for the past
and for tradition which is one of the most delightful, as it is one of the most successful,
elements in Punch's composition. Here you may see Sir John Tenniel's long churchwarden, with
his initials marked upon it, and Charles Keene's little pipe--for these two men would ever
prefer a stem between their teeth to a cigar-stump. Statuettes in plaster of John Leech and
of Thackeray, by Sir Edgar Boehm, as well as a bust of Douglas Jerrold, decorate the mantelpiece
or the dwarf-cupboard; and on the walls are many frames of abiding interest.

Here you have the portraits of the four editors--that of Mark Lemon painted by Fred Chester,
son of his life-long friend George Chester, and the likenesses of Shirley Brooks, Tom Taylor,
and Mr. Burnand in photography. The portraits of the Staff, taken by Bassano in 1891 at Mr.
William Agnew's request, to the number of fourteen or fifteen, hang separately in their dark
frames. The original of one of Tenniel's Almanac designs; a masterly drawing, two feet long,
by Keene, bought by the late Mr. Bradbury at a sale--the (unused) cartoon of Disraeli leading
the principal financiers of the day in hats and frock-coats across the Red Sea ("Come along,
it's getting shallower"); the original of Leech's celebrated "Mr. Punch's Fancy Ball," and
a series of the enlarged coloured prints of his hunting sketches; a caricature of Mr. Furniss
by Mr. Sambourne, made in Paris; another of Mr. Sambourne by Mr. Furniss; and a third of Mr.
Sambourne by himself; a caricature in pen-and-ink and colour of the Punch Staff marching along
in Paris, by Mr. Furniss; a black-and-white sketch by the same artist of the same distinguished
company in the train on the return journey; and another souvenir of the Paris trip by Mr. du
Maurier, including the portraits of himself, Mr. Burnand, Mr. Arthur à Beckett, and Mr. W.
Bradbury. The trophy-frame of specimen proofs of some of the finest of Swain's cuts of the
artistic Staff's best work, gathered together for show in one of the great exhibitions, has
been removed to make room for photographs of Gilbert à Beckett, "Ponny" (Horace) Mayhew, Charles
Keene, Tom Taylor, Percival Leigh, Charles H. Bennett, R. F. Sketchley, John Henry Agnew, Thomas
Agnew and William Bradbury, Mr. Fred Evans and Sir William Agnew; while photographic groups
of the Staff and a fine autotype of Thackeray complete the wall decoration of one of the most
interesting apartments in London City.

And in the corner, on the locker farthest from the street, besides a little papier-mâché figure
of a Japanese Punch--sent by an admirer in the Land of the Rising Sun--and a group charmingly
modelled from Sir John Tenniel's beautiful cartoon of "Peace and the New Year," stands the
statue of the Great Hunchback himself, which in a fit of enthusiasm a young German sculptor,
named Adolph Fleischmann, wrought and presented to the object of his admiration. It is a work
of no little grotesqueness and ingenuity (well modelled and coloured, and fitted with springs
that permit of the working of arms and eyes and head), which, endowed with a white favour,
has played its part in the decoration of the publishing office on the occasion of certain royal
weddings and public rejoicing, and during the blocking of Fleet Street has been utilised in
the direction of comic self-advertisement.

Then there is a real "Royal Patent" appropriately framed, "hereby appointing Master Punch unto
the Place and Quality of Joke Maker Extraordinary to her Majesty," duly signed and sealed by
the Lord Chamberlain, and countersigned "J. A. N. D. Martin." It is undoubtedly a genuine certificate--up
to a point; but how it was obtained, and how Punch's name came to be filled in, remains to
this day a mystery. Such is the room, with its pleasant decoration of red and black and gold,
with its large windows and its sunlight gaselier; but, take it for all in all, it is about
as unlike Mr. Sambourne's classic representation of the Roman atrium in his Jubilee drawing
as well could be imagined.

And the Table itself--the Table--the famous board of which we all have heard, yet none, or
but very few of us, have seen--I myself amongst the fortunate few! As a piece of furniture
this hospitable, but rather primitive, piece of joinery is not of much account, the top being
of plain deal (pace Thackeray's "Mahogany Tree"), oblong in shape, with rounded ends. But its
associations render it a treasure among treasures, a rich and priceless gem. For at this Table
nearly every man upon the Staff has, from the day it was made, sat and carved his initials
upon it with a penknife, when officially elevated to Punch's peerage. As each has died, his
successor has taken his place--just as the Institut de France creates Immortals to fill the
chairs made vacant by death--and he has cut his initials or his mark close by those of the
men who occupied the place before him. There they are, staring at you from the Table like so
many abecedarian skeletons at the feast; and if you take a furtive and hasty peep from the
doorway and lift the green protective cloth you catch sight nearest you of a "D. M." in close
company with a beautifully-cut "W. M. T." and a monogrammatic leech inside a bottle flanked
by a J. and an L.; and you gaze with deep interest on the handiwork of them and of the rest,
many of whom have carved their names, as on that Table, deep into England's roll of fame; and
of others, too, who, with less of genius but equal zeal and effort, have a strong claim on
the gratitude and the recollection of a kindly and laughter-loving people.[7]

For more than forty years, then, this Table has week by week, with few exceptions, been surrounded
by the Staff of the day; and the chair, the self-same old-fashioned wooden editorial armchair,
has been filled by the reigning Editor. "With few exceptions," I said; for Bouverie Street
has not invariably been the hatching-place of the Cartoon, nor have its walls resounded with
absolute regularity to the laughter and the jests of the merry-makers. During the summer the
Dinner has been, now and again, and still is, held at Greenwich, at Richmond, Maidenhead, or
elsewhere--Hampton Court and Dulwich rather frequently of old, as well as once at Harrow, and
sometimes at Purfleet, Windsor, and Rosherville. Sometimes, when occasion has demanded--in
the "dead season," maybe, when the attendance at the Table has dwindled, though for no sustained
period (it is even on record that the "Dinner" has consisted of a tête-à-tête between Sir John
Tenniel and Mr. Arthur à Beckett)--not more than three or four consecutive weeks, certainly--the
"Sussex," or more often the old "Bedford Hotel," or latterly the "First Avenue," has been the
scene of the feast; while "special dinners" (and they have been many) have been held in special
places. And not invariably has the weekly repast been a "dinner" at all, be it observed; for
on certain rare occasions, when some important Parliamentary matter has intervened, a luncheon
has been held instead. Once, in September, 1845, it was postponed from the Saturday night at
the intercession of Charles Dickens, so that a new play by Macready might be produced with
the full advantage of the Punch men's presence. And the Dinner was once more made a movable
feast, and was held on the Tuesday instead of the Wednesday, on the occasion of the production
of Mr. Burnand's and Sir Arthur Sullivan's opera of "The Chieftain" in December, 1894.

In the "Bedford Hotel"--beloved of Thackeray, for in it he wrote much of "Henry Esmond," and
stayed there when his house was in the painters' hands--the room occupied was that known as
the "Dryden." Here the Staff would make no attempt at self-repression; and I have been told
how the idle and the curious would congregate outside upon the pavement and listen to the voices
of the wits within, and wait to gape at them as they passed in and out.

The places at Table once occupied by the members of the Staff are nowadays regarded as theirs
by right. But in earlier days the places were often shuffled, as at a game of "general post."
Proof of it may be had from the following plans of the Table between 1855 and 1865--perhaps
the most interesting years in the history of Punch, as demonstrating the transitional stage,
when the ancient order of things was rapidly developing into the modern as we know them to-day.
In 1855, then, the disposition was as follows:--

          WILLIAM BRADBURY*
  DOUGLAS JERROLD      JOHN LEECH
  TOM TAYLOR           W. M. THACKERAY
  GILBERT À BECKETT    SHIRLEY BROOKS
  HORACE MAYHEW        MARK LEMON
  PERCIVAL LEIGH       JOHN TENNIEL
           F. M. EVANS*

--only two artists and a half (Thackeray being a commixture of writer and draughtsman) to seven
writers and a half!

Five years later--in 1860--the places had changed, partly through death, partly through rearrangement:--

                  WILLIAM BRADBURY*
  W. M. THACKERAY (when he came)     JOHN LEECH
  TOM TAYLOR                         HENRY SILVER
  HORACE MAYHEW                      CHARLES KEENE
  SHIRLEY BROOKS                     JOHN TENNIEL
  PERCIVAL LEIGH                     MARK LEMON
                    F. M. EVANS*

  Here the artistic element is seen to be asserting itself to
  some extent, the proportion between artist and writer being
  further readjusted after the lapse of another five years: for
  in 1865 the constitution of the table became--

             F. M. EVANS*
  TOM TAYLOR             G. DU MAURIER
  W. H. BRADBURY*        HENRY SILVER
  (his father seldom came now)
  HORACE MAYHEW          CHARLES H. BENNETT
  CHARLES KEENE          F. M. EVANS, JR.[9]
  F. C. BURNAND          SHIRLEY BROOKs
  PERCIVAL LEIGH         JOHN TENNIEL
               MARK LEMON

--the editor for the first time taking his proper place at the table, although, it is true,
it was only at the foot.

To-day the number of the staff has been increased, and the right proportion struck between
the pen and the pencil--the editor, too, presiding.

                MR. F. C. BURNAND
  SIR JOHN TENNIEL         MR. F. ANSTEY
  MR. LINLEY SAMBOURNE     MR. HENRY LUCY
  MR. ARTHUR À BECKETT     MR. E. T. REED
  MR. R. C. LEHMANN        MR. BERNARD PARTRIDGE
  MR. HARRY FURNISS
  (until Feb. 1894)        MR. PHIL MAY
  MR. DU MAURIER           MR. E. J. MILLIKEN
            SIR WILLIAM AGNEW (sometimes)
            MR. LAWRENCE BRADBURY or
            MR. PHILIP AGNEW

   =* Proprietors=

In the decade or so following the death of Douglas Jerrold--roughly corresponding with the
period within which the arrangements varied as i have shown--six new appointments were made
to the table. These were: Mr. Henry Silver, In August, 1857; Charles Keene, February, 1860
(after a nine years' probationership); Mr. F. C. Burnand, June, 1863; Mr. G. Du Maurier, November,
1864; Charles H. Bennett, February, 1865 (though ill-health prevented him from taking his place
until the following June); and Mr. R. F. Sketchley (till 1894 of the South Kensington Museum),
January, 1868. The present Staff, I may add, since Mr. du Maurier's accession, have taken their
places at the Table in the following order: Mr. Linley Sambourne, Mr. Arthur à Beckett, Mr.
E. J. Milliken, Gilbert à Beckett, Mr. Reginald Shirley Brooks (until 1884), Mr. Henry Lucy,
Mr. F. Anstey, Mr. R. C. Lehmann, Mr. E. T. Reed, Mr. Bernard Partridge, and in February, 1895,
Mr. Phil May. As Mr. Punch approached man's estate, and arrived at years of artistic discretion,
he cultivated a pretty taste in epicurism; until to-day, if report be true, the Dinners (prepared
and sent in by Spiers and Pond), the Ayala, and the cigars, are all worthy of the palates of
the men whose wit it is theirs to stimulate and nourish. To summon the Staff to these feasts
of reason it was in later years the practice to issue printed notices, which after 1870 were
superseded by invitation cards drawn by Mr. du Maurier--the design representing Mr. Punch ringing
his bell, while the faithful fly hurriedly to respond to the behest. But owing to the number
of portraits it contained of old friends now departed, and the painful recollections it consequently
aroused, its later use has been discontinued.

But when our Democritus boasted fewer years, there was not so much ceremony in his banquet,
neither was there so much state; nor was the friendship less keen or the intimacy less enjoyable
in Leigh's humbler days of "off-n-off." A wonderful company--a brilliant company; with flashing
wit and dazzling sallies, with many "a skirmish of wit between them." From more, the quieter
flow of genial humour. And among the rest, the listeners; men--some of them--who prefer to
attend than to talk, even to the point of reserve and almost of taciturnity. Such men were
John Leech, Richard Doyle, and Charles Keene--whose silence, however, masked subtle minds that
were teeming with droll ideas, and as appreciative of humour as the sprightliest. What jokes
have been made, what stories told that never have found their way into print! What chaff, what
squibs, what caricatures--which it surpasses the wit of a Halsbury or a MacNeill to imagine
or condone!

Of what the Punch Dinner was at the time when Thackeray was still of the band, an idea may
be formed from the following extract from Mr. Silver's Diary, with which I have been favoured
by the writer, who for several years sat at it by right. He calls it--

    "A NIGHT AT THE ROUND TABLE."

    SCENE: Mr. Punch's Banquet Hall at No. 11, Bouverie Street.

    TIME: Wednesday, March 2nd, 1859, six o'clock p.m.

    F. M. EVANS W. M. THACKERAY JOHN LEECH HORACE MAYHEW TOM TAYLOR
    SHIRLEY BROOKS HENRY SILVER PERCIVAL LEIGH JOHN TENNIEL MARK LEMON

    'Turbot and haunch of venison--what a good dinner!' says Tenniel,
    reading menu. Tantalising to Tom Taylor, who has to dine
    elsewhere; and Thackeray leaves early, to go to an 'episcopal
    tea-fight,' as he tells us--a jump 'from lively to severe,' to
    Fulham Palace from the Punch Table.

Tom merely looks in 'to hear what you fellows say about the Reform Bill,' which Dizzy introduced
on Monday. So we begin discussing politics even with the venison. 'Ponny' Mayhew condemns the
Bill: does nothing for the working man, he says. Tom thinks that people look to Punch for guidance,
and that we ought to be plain-speaking, and take a decided course. 'Professor' Leigh and Mark
agree in thinking that we rather should stand by awhile, and see how the stream runs. All seem
of opinion that Walpole acted as a man of honour in resigning, not being rich enough to make
money of no matter to him.

'Seria mista jocis' being Mr. Punch's motto (though it never has been sanctioned by the Heralds'
College), Shirley, apropos of money, asks, 'Why is Lord Overstone like copper?' 'Because he
is a Lloyd with tin.' Whereat Thackeray laughs heartily.

Odd that there should now be three old Carthusians in Mr. Punch's Council of Ten. Thackeray
observes this to the other two of them [J. L. and H. S.], and proceeds to say, 'I went to Charterhouse
the other day. Hadn't seen School come out since I left. Saw a touching scene there--a little
fellow with his hands held tenderly behind him, and a tear or two still trickling down his
rosy cheek, and two little cronies with their arms around his neck; and I well knew what had
happened, and how they'd take him away privily, and make him show his cuts!'

'Talking of cuts, Mark, how about the Large one?' Thackeray suggests Lawyer, Doctor, and Schoolmaster,
standing in a row as prize boys, and Dizzy presenting them with votes. I propose Diz trying
to launch a lop-sided 'Reform' ship, with the title 'Will it Swim?' Mark suggests D. joining
hands of artisan and yeoman, giving each of them a vote. Thackeray thinks of workman coming
among gentlemen of Parliament and asking, 'What have you done for me?' Professor Leigh considers
situation might be shown by Bright and Dizzy poking up the British Lion, for clearly he wants
rousing. 'Yes,' says Shirley, 'and when he's roused, you know, we can have another picture
of him with his tail and monkey up.' Idea gradually takes shape, and is approved,[8] though
Tenniel hardly likes it, and Leech wants to know if Ponny (Mayhew) would not prefer a good
old-fashioned tragic cartoon of the virtuous and starving British Workman, with ragged wife
and children, and Death a ghastly apparition in the background.

This leads to a little spar between Ponny and 'Pater' Evans. Ponny lets fly with great vigour:
'Punch is standing still now; used to take the lead, but no longer dares to do so. Avançons!'
waving hand excitedly. Pater calmly answers that the times are altered, and that Punch is going
with them. Strong words have done their work, and there's no longer need of them. Nobody now
talks about the trampled working man, nor goes trumpeting abroad the dignity of labour. Then
Ponny shifts his ground, and complains that many clever fellows who are workers with the pen
are now hardly earning more than many workers with the pickaxe. 'Well, it's their own fault,'
says Pater; 'they might easily earn more if they were not so idle.' Penny replies they don't
want luxuries, being men of simple tastes, and anything but Sybarites. 'So am I,' cries Leech;
'my tastes are very simple. Give me a good day's hunting, and some good claret after it--nothing
can be simpler, and I'm really quite contented.'

But Ponny harks back to his 'deuced clever fellows,' applauding one of them especially, a Bohemian
friend of his, who, he says politely, is far cleverer a fellow than any at the Punch Table.
'But what has he done?' asks Leech. 'Tell you what he doesn't do,' says Shirley; 'he may write
a lot, but he certainly doesn't wash much.' Somebody wonders, if he were proposed for White's
Club, whether members would blackball him: and Shirley quotes Charles Lamb's remark, 'What
splendid hands he'd hold, if only dirt were trumps!' Then Ponny shouts indignantly, 'There,
never mind his hands: think what a clever head he has.'

Here Professor gives a little lecture on phrenology, impelled thereto by Penny's capital allusion.
Talking like a book, as his frequent manner is, he expounds in fluent phrase his deeply-rooted
faith in this neglected science. To give idea of its importance, he vows he wouldn't keep a
housemaid who had a bad head. 'No more would I,' says Shirley; 'I'd send her to the doctor.'
'I mean, a head ill-shapen,' explains Professor blandly, being 'the mildest-mannered man that
ever cut a throat'--in argument. 'A well-proportioned head betokens a fine brain: whereas a
skull that is cramped contains probably a mean one.' Avows belief not so much in the localisation
of organs as in their general development. Here Leech, who hates street music, professes horror
at the possible development of organs, and wishes they were localised where nobody could hear
them. Paying no heed to this flippancy, Professor explains gravely that peculiar formations
incline to special acts, and that the development of certain cranial organs--vulgarly termed
'bumps'--may be lessened or augmented in the course of early schooling. 'Well, I do believe
in "bumps,"' says Shirley, speaking with solemnity, 'yes, even in schoolboys' heads--if you
knock them well together.'

Mark next has an innings, and tells some of his stage stories. He tells them very funnily,
and imitates Macready and many other actors in their vocal mannerisms. And he mimics operatic
singers capitally, with sonorous words in mock Italian basso recitative. Among his tales is
one of a half-tipsy actor playing in the 'Corsican Brothers' and explaining their fraternal
peculiarity--'My brother in Paris is now feeling--hic--precishly shame senshations--hic--as
myshelf!' Also tells of his once bringing out a farce called 'Punch' at the Strand Theatre,
wherein a parrot played a prominent part. One night a new parrot took its place, and used most
dreadful language when the curtain rose.

Story-telling being now the order of the evening, Silver tells of the gun trick being tried
in the Far West. One day, just as the conjuror had caught the bullet in his teeth, another
whizzed close to his head, and a voice came from the gallery, 'Guess, I nearly had you then,
old hoss!' At the next performance a placard was displayed, and gentlemen were begged to leave
their rifles with the doorkeeper. Shirley enjoys this, and says, 'Now, don't cry "connu" Ponny!
You're always crying "connu" when anyone says anything. And you're always cracking up your
chums. If a world was wanted anywhere, you'd say your brother had discovered one and had better
be consulted.'

Ponny then breaks out again with his bilingual vehemence and Parisian gestures. (Some people
never can talk French without trying to shrug shoulders.) Brandishing his dessert-knife, he
shouts, 'Avançons, mes amis! go ahead, my boys! En avant! Excusez-moi,' and scatters scraps
of French about, till Leech cries, 'There, don't talk like a lady's-maid, Ponny; why can't
you speak English?' And, to change the talk, he tells of a French sport'man taking his first
fences here, with rather a fresh horse which has been lent him. After coming a couple of bad
'croppers,' which he conceives to be the usual style of leaping here in England, he says a
little sadly, 'My friend, I t'ank you for your 'orse, bot I t'ink dat I s'all jomp no more
at present.'

Somebody caps this with tale of a 'Mossoo' who manifests deep sorrow at the death of an old
hare, slain by an English visitor. 'Hélas! il est mort enfin! Mon pauvre vieux! I have shot
at him for years! He was all the game I had!'

And Leech tells another story of a foreigner of distinction hunting in the Midlands, and hearing
the cry 'Stole away!' and shouting out excitedly, 'Aha, stole a vay, has he, de old t'ief!
Den I suppose we s'all not find a vay to him, and so we must go home!' ... Which we do.

       *       *       *       *       *

Thus, for half a century has Wednesday evening been passed in the editorial office of Punch,
just when its readers are discussing the merits of the previous week's issue; and according
to the verdict of those readers was attuned the merriment of the Staff. It is on record how
Douglas Jerrold would go radiant to the Dinners as "Mrs. Caudle" was sending up Punch's circulation
at a rapid rate; "and was one of the happiest among them all." Thackeray, too, first tasted
the delights of wide popularity in the success of his "Snob Papers," and he showed the pleasure
he felt in his demeanour at the board. At one time these two men sat side by side, and there
was as little love as space between them; but with the good-humoured philosophy which is a
tradition of that institution, the occasional differences of opinion, and the harder knocks
of wit, and sometimes, even, the still sharper encounters of temper, were all glossed over.
As Thackeray so truly remarked himself--"What is the use of quarrelling with a man if you have
to meet him every Wednesday at dinner?" Nevertheless, in course of time he changed his seat
from between Jerrold and Gilbert Abbott à Beckett, and, crossing over, faced his friend the
enemy, while Mark Lemon, watchful and alert beneath the cloak of geniality, was quick to cast
a damping word on inflammable conversation and--so far as he could persuade them to listen
to a man so greatly their inferior in genius and intellect--to stem the threatened outburst.
As a matter of fact, Jerrold always regarded Thackeray as a bit of a snob and viewed his entrance
into Society--against which Jerrold had for years been hurling his bitterest darts--with very
grave suspicion. "I have known Thackeray," he would say, "for eighteen years, and I don't know
him yet"--almost in the despairing words in which I have heard a distinguished Academician
speak of his still more distinguished President. On the other hand, Mr. Arthur à Beckett has
declared to me, "I never knew my brother so well as when I met him at the Punch Table."

In the earliest weeks of Punch's existence Kenny Meadows had been the Nestor of the least;
but when Jerrold joined the Staff three months later, he took by force of character and wit,
and power of lung, a leading position on the paper and at the Table--a position which he never
resigned. Notwithstanding his biting sallies, we may be sure that it was not Jerrold's primary
object to make his victims wince. There is no doubt that the "little wine" that so stimulated
him to witty and brilliant conversation full of flash and repartee, sometimes turned sour upon
his lips, and changed the kindness that was in his heart into a semblance of gall. Mr. Sidney
Cooper has gravely set it on record how on leaving the Punch Dinner Jerrold would tie a label
with his name and address upon it round his neck, so that, should he in his homeward course
be tempted to stray into the path of undue conviviality, he might sooner or later be safely
delivered at his destination. Although the statement is in a measure confirmed in the memoirs
of Hodder and of Blanchard Jerrold himself, one cannot help being struck at the conflict between
it and the story of Jerrold's reply to the drunken young sparks who met him in the street at
midnight, and asked him the way to the entertainment known as "Judge and Jury"--"Straight on,
straight on as you are going, young gentlemen--you can't miss them!" He was himself greatly
pleased with his milder witticisms, and, it is said, chuckled complacently at the neatness
of his conceit when toasting Mr. Punch, at one of the Wednesday Dinners, in which he declared
that "he would never require spirit while he had such good Lemon-aid." He loved the paper as
few others loved it, and very, very rarely missed the weekly gathering--attending it, indeed,
up to within a week or so of his death.

Not less scrupulous in his attendance was Gilbert Abbott à Beckett, who, when residing at holiday-times
at Boulogne, would regularly come up to town for their Cabinet Council; and if ill-chance unavoidably
prevented his wished-for presence, he would write--after the custom adopted by many of his
colleagues--a full explanation and apology. But the necessity very seldom arose. True son of
his father, Gilbert à Beckett was equally faithful to the Table, and in spite of the paralysis
of the legs from which he suffered (and for which he was for a time duly chaffed by the advice
of Percival Leigh, lest there might be hysteria about the disease) he attended the Wednesday
gatherings with what regularity he could up to within a fortnight before he died. Thackeray,
too, for many years after he ceased writing for Punch would weekly join the Staff, and always
received a cordial and affectionate welcome. The gentle Leech--who, according to Shirley Brooks,
attended the Dinner for more than twenty years without uttering an unkind or an angry word--was
at the Table within a few days of his death, but, in Brooks's words, "scarcely seemed to understand
what was going on." And yet another member of the Old Guard, who stood by his post to the end,
was "The Professor," Percival Leigh, whose sense of wit was dulled with age, but whose mind
was otherwise as bright as ever. But at the Dinners the genial, courteous old gentleman was
listened to, as ever, with deference by his younger collaborators, and from them he never had
cause for suspicion that his powers were failing--

  "Full well they laughed, with counterfeited glee,
  At all his jokes, for many a joke had he."

Another of Punch's favourite sons was Charles H. Bennett. His life was a hard yet happy one,
and his career was short, though not too short for fame; and the last two years during which
he sat at the Table were perhaps the merriest of them all. But his attendances, really owing
to the illness which ultimately bore him down, were irregular. This irregularity, combined
with his habit--then commoner even than now among artists--of wearing his hair very long, brought
him one day a letter from his friends and fellow-diners in the following terms:--

  "Punch" Council, October 24th, 1866.

  Present:--LEMON               W. H. BRADBURY
            EVANS               G. DU MAURIER
            HORACE MAYHEW       EVANS FILS
            TOM TAYLOR          S. BROOKS
            LEIGH               TENNIEL

  "Resolved"--

  That this meeting deeply sympathises with C. H. Bennett
    on the state of his hair.

  That this meeting appreciates the feeling which detains
    the said Bennett from the Council until his hair shall
    have been cut.

  That this meeting deplores the impecuniosity which prevents
    the said Bennett from attending a Barber.

  That this meeting, anxious to receive the said Bennett
    to its bosom, once more organises a subscription to
    enable him to attend the said Barber.

  That this company, having (limited) confidence in Mr.
    Mark Lemon, entrusts him with the following subscriptions
    in aid of the above object, and requests him
    to communicate with the aforesaid Bennett to the end
    that he may have his dam hair cut and rejoin the
    assembly of the brethren.

                                       £  s. d.
  (Signed) MARK LEMON                  0  0  1
           FREDERICK EVANS             0  0  1
           PERCIVAL LEIGH              0  0  1
           HORACE MAYHEW               0  0  1
           TOM TAYLOR                  0  0  1
           W. H. BRADBURY              0  0  1
           GEORGE DU MAURIER           0  0  1
           F. M. EVANS                 0  0  1
           SHIRLEY BROOKS              0  0  1
           J. TENNIEL                  0  0  1
                                      --------
                  Stamps enclosed     £0  0 10
                                      ========

And these ten penny stamps, together with the letter, are to this day treasured by the artist's
son.

It was not surprising that Bennett was missed; his animal spirits and his bright good-humour
counted for a good deal at the Table; and when he died, his colleagues organised elaborate
theatricals and collected a large sum for those whom he loved and left behind in the pinch
of poverty.

If for some time before his death Charles Keene deserted the dinner-table, it was owing, as
he has himself confessed, in no slight measure to political motives which developed about the
time of the Russo-Turkish War. Keene was what Tories call a patriot and Liberals a "Jingo;"
and in his quiet way he felt so deeply that he thought it best to stay away--not that he loved
Punch less, but he loved his convictions more. "I am sorry to say," he wrote, with doubtful
accuracy, "Punch is 'Musco' to a man except C. K., so he keeps away from that Liberal lot at
the present conjunction." There certainly was, however, another reason, quite independent of
politics, which kept Keene from the Table during the latter years of Mr. W. H. Bradbury's life.
He was not, as his biographer, Mr. Layard, has pointed out, of much use in suggestion at the
business function of the Dinner, and he looked less to his colleagues than to his friends outside
for the jokes to which he drew his pictures; so that his presence was not a necessity. Nevertheless,
he would attend, now and again, until age began to tell upon him; and his companions love to
think of him, clutching his short-stemmed pipe to his mouth, puffing gravely, saying little,
thinking much, quick at appreciating a joke, slow at making one, with an eye full of humour,
and its lid and corresponding corner of his mouth quickly responsive to any quip or crank that
might let fly. Eclectic in his humour as in his art, disposed to condemn any cartoon suggestion
not thoroughly thought out as "damn bad," he was in the weekly assembly at the Table like the
'cello in the orchestra--not much heard, yet when there indispensable to the general effect
and the general completeness, even though he only went "for company."

I have lingered, perhaps unduly, over the social side of the Punch Dinner, for the company
is of the best, and the subject an entertaining and a pleasant one. But serious business has
to be discussed and transacted--and transacted it is, whatever jokes and ebullitions of bonhomie
may form the running accompaniment to the work in hand. In Mark Lemon's time the Dinner began
at "six sharp," and in Shirley Brooks's and Tom Taylor's a half-hour later; but when Mr. F.
C. Burnand took up the reins of power, the hour was advanced to seven o'clock, and on its stroke
the Staff are generally found in their places. From all parts they come, just as their predecessors
used to speed from Boulogne, from Herne Hill, and from the Isle of Wight, so that their absence
should not be felt nor their assistance lacking at the Gathering of the Clan. Sir John Tenniel
comes from Maida Vale, most likely, or from some spot near to London--which he has hardly quitted
for a fortnight together during the last forty years, save when, in 1878, he went to Venice
with Mr. Henry Silver and left Charles Keene malgré lui as cartoonist-in-chief. Mr. Sambourne
arrives, perhaps, from a yachting expedition or from the moors; Mr. du Maurier from his beloved
Whitby or from a lecturing tour; Mr. Lucy hurries in from the House of Commons; Mr. Furniss,
up to the time of his resignation, from some distant spot where he "entertained" last evening,
and whence he would expect to be three hundred miles away on a similar errand on the morrow.
But not for some time past, it must be said in passing, had either Mr. du Maurier or Mr. Furniss
been so regular at the Table as in earlier days--Mr. Furniss by reason of his touring, and
Mr. du Maurier on account of the distance of his home, and the evil effect of tobacco-smoke
on his eyes and nerves.

Then when dinner is over and coffee finished, and paper and pens brought in--at half-past eight,
as near as may be--the cigars come on and the waiters go off (including at one time the crusted
Burnap, an original worthy of "Robert" himself); and not more rigidly was the Press excluded
from the Ministerial Whitebait Dinner in the good old times, than are Cabinet Ministers interdicted
from the Dinner of Mr. Punch to-day. Then the Editor, who has been presiding, invites ideas
and discussion on the subject of the "big cut," as the cartoon is commonly called; and no two
men listen more eagerly to the replies--suggestions that may be hazarded, or proposals dogmatically
slapped down--than Mr. Burnand, who is responsible for the subject, and Sir John Tenniel, whose
duty it will be to realise the conception. The latter makes few remarks; he waits, reflects,
and weighs, thinking not so much, perhaps, of the political or social, as of the artistic possibilities
of the subjects as they are brought up, and other points that recommend themselves both to
the artistic and literary members of the Staff. All the while, perhaps, the Editor has a fine
subject up his sleeve, and only brings it forth when the discussion has begun to wane. Or a
proposal may be made at the very first by one member of the Staff that is accepted at once
with acclamation--an event, however, of the utmost rarity; or again, as is usually the case,
the final decision may be gradually and almost painfully evolved from this symposium of professional
wits and literary politicians. This is the time when the men are apt to lay bare their political
beliefs (if any such they have) or their lack of them; and I wager that if poor Keene could
once more be present at a Punch Dinner, he would no longer charge it against the Staff that
it is "'Musco' to a man."

Indeed, at the present time Punch may be considered to represent the old Whig feeling. Sir
John Tenniel, Mr. Anstey, and Mr. Arthur à Beckett are credited with Tory bias; Mr. Milliken,
Mr. H. W. Lucy, Mr. R. C. Lehmann, and Mr. Reed represent the Radicals; Mr. Sambourne is Unionist;
and Mr. Burnand, as behoves him who holds the scales, confesses to no political sympathies
or antipathies whatever.

Thus the subject of the cartoon is settled--often by the aid of the latest editions of the
evening papers; and being once settled, is very rarely revived on any pretext whatever. On
one occasion, however, when Mark Lemon was Editor, and Shirley Brooks was recognised as the
best suggestor, an exceptional incident took place. The subject was duly decided upon, and
Brooks went home. After he was gone, and none but Mark Lemon, Charles Keene, Sir John Tenniel,
and Mr. Henry Silver were left, Keene, to the surprise of the rest, made a suggestion in connection
with the American War then being waged, that was immediately accepted as vastly superior to
that which had previously been adopted; and the future Editor was much astonished as he opened
his paper on the following Tuesday and his eyes fell on a different and wholly unexpected cartoon.
Yet, though Brooks was practically the Suggestor-in-Chief, it would be unfair to pass over
the curious fitness of Leech's proposals. They were always marked with equal judgment and taste,
and, as it was admitted, his suggestions invariably were "just right."

When the "big cut" has been decided on, the question of a single-page or double-page engraving
sometimes comes up; and then the legend has to be settled. This (irreverently known as "cackle"
by those who produce it) is largely the work of Mr. E. J. Milliken, who nowadays occupies a
good deal of Shirley Brooks's old position of "suggestor," and who, like him, is living testimony
of the truth of John Seddon's saying that "wit and wisdom are born with a man." For many years
Mr. Milliken has suggested the greater number of the cartoons, and he is generally the first
asked for a proposal for Sir John Tenniel's cut. He usually has several subjects, carefully
considered and as carefully written out, in his pocket-book, and fitted with peculiarly felicitous
quotations. He is also mainly responsible for the Almanac cartoons--subjects for both the great
Punch satirists--Sir John, and Mr. Linley Sambourne. All, however, share with him the duty
and the credit of the difficult art of cartoon-suggesting, and, no matter by whom it may be
proposed, no subject is passed without full discussion. Every possible objection is heard and
considered. Although Mr. Milliken may bring in his Bill, amendments are always proposed, and
are either rejected or carried; and then the Bill as amended becomes the subject of the cartoon.
The title and legend are written on a piece of paper, which, enclosed in an envelope, is then
handed over to the cartoonist. It was at this moment that Shirley Brooks used to throw down
his knife in order to "cut" any further discussion, and after that symbolic act a more desultory
conversation on the other men's work would follow. Not on Leech's, however; for he was left
greatly to himself--a piece of masterly inactivity and non-interference on the Editor's part
which speaks volumes for Lemon's prudence and shrewd discrimination.

Under Mr. Burnand's régime the course of events is a little altered. For even while Sir John
has begun to think out the composition and the technical details of the subject which the Council
has determined, and is scheming maybe in his own mind how best he may arrange his figures so
that when he draws them the heads will not come across a join on the wood-block where its segments
are screwed together; or, again, how so to arrange an exceptionally elaborate subject that
Mr. Swain may still have it ready for engraving in good time on the Friday evening, the attention
of the Staff is now turned to the "Cartoon junior"--the second cartoon--to which for some years
Mr. Linley Sambourne has been giving some of the finest and most ingenious work of his life.
This is discussed somewhat like the first, and often enough raises the draughtsman's interest
in the work he has to do to a point of genuine artistic enthusiasm. But there appears to be
no finality about the second cartoon so far as the Dinner is concerned, and it is no unusual
thing in lively times for the subjects to be given at the last moment by telegram to Mr. Sambourne;
so that his condition of mind during the Thursday following the Dinner may not inaptly be compared
to that of an anxious fireman waiting for a "call." The contributions of the rest of the artistic
Staff--Mr. du Maurier, Mr. Bernard Partridge, and Mr. E. T. Reed--do not form the subject of
Wednesday's cogitation; nor is it true, as has publicly been stated, that when jokes fail it
is customary to draw them from a pot into which, written on slips of paper, they have been
deposited on the many occasions when Mr. Punch's cistern of wit has overflowed into the jar
in question.

Such is the simple function of "the Punch Dinner." The Editor presides--or, in his absence
to-day, Mr. Arthur à Beckett, just as it was Douglas Jerrold and Shirley Brooks in Lemon's
time, and Tom Taylor in Brooks's (the duty of vice- or assistant-editor never falling to an
artist)--inviting suggestions, "drawing" his artists, and spurring his writers, with rare tact
and art; and he challenges comparison with any of his predecessors, just as Sir Frederic Leighton
excels all previous Presidents of the Royal Academy. Some of those who sit around the Table,
as I have already set forth, have attended for many years; and it is they who secure to Punch
that quality of tradition and healthy sense of prestige which strengthen him against every
assault, whether of man or of Time himself. To this traditional sense of ancient glory and
present vigour Sir John Tenniel has of course contributed more than any other living man; not
Leech, nor Thackeray, nor Jerrold, nor Doyle, served Punch more loyally or effectively, and
he has secured that the dignified spirit of the paper has suffered no deterioration. To him
it falls, also, to see that the subjects of cartoons are not repeated. The tenderness of the
Staff for the honour, good name, and pre-eminence of Punch is delightful and touching to behold;
the sentiment of a great past animates them all, and kindles in them the hope and ambition
for as great and as proud a future.

The exclusiveness of Punch notwithstanding, he has not always been as inhospitable (if that
is the word to use of an essentially business meeting of a private nature) as some of his friends
would have us suppose. There are many who claim the distinction of having dined at Punch's
Table, but few who can sustain their pretension. Some, however, there are--a very few, it is
true; but more than have been officially recognised as Punch diners. Mr. Harry Furniss has
publicly contended that his aunt, Mrs. Thompson, was one of these. As the lady, before she
married Dr. Thompson, is said to have been originally engaged to Landells, the first Punch
engraver, this might well be; for about the time of the transfer of the property from him to
Bradbury and Evans--and Landells, it will be remembered, did not give up the whole of his share
till some time afterwards--the rules and regulations were not by any means so stringent as
they ultimately became. In any case, the claims of "Mr. F.'s Aunt" have in her time been as
strenuously insisted upon as ever they were at the Finchings'. Then came Charles Dickens--whose
presence, I believe, is not contested. Before his quarrel with Mark Lemon and Bradbury and
Evans, because Punch declined to print a justification of himself in connection with his purely
domestic circumstances, he was the guest of Punch's publishers, who were his own publishers,
and who were also the publishers of the "Daily News"--upon the preparations for which Dickens,
as first editor, was then engaged. Moreover, Dickens was an intimate friend of Douglas Jerrold,
whose influence on Punch at that time was paramount; so that the double circumstance is amply
sufficient to account for Dickens's presence at No. 11, Bouverie Street. Much the same considerations
may be held to explain Sir Joseph Paxton's frequent attendance. The great gardener--it was
Punch who christened his big exhibition building "The Crystal Palace," "What shall be done
with the Palace of Crystal?"--was the intimate of Mark Lemon. He had also the most cordial
relations with the Staff, some of whom he would entertain in the gardens of Chatsworth, where
he acted as the agent of the Duke of Devonshire, grandfather of the present duke, and himself
on the best of personal terms with Mr. Punch. And I have proof that he exerted all his influence
in favour of Bradbury and Evans's great new venture, through the intermediary of Charles Dickens.
"Paxton," writes Dickens in one of his letters bearing upon the subject that lie before me,
dated October, 1845--a few months before the launching of the "Daily News"--"has the command
of every railway and railway influence in England and abroad, except the Great Western; and
he is in it heart and purse." What more likely, then, that Dickens, at work at Whitefriars,
should be invited by his friends, his publishers, to dine with his friends of the Punch Staff?--though
he possibly did not stay to the Cabinet Council; and what more reasonable than for them to
value Paxton's considerable influence at the price of a graceful privilege, seeing that the
"Daily News" thought it, in those early days, worth while to appoint a "Railway Editor" at
a salary of £2,000 a year? Moreover, Paxton was interested with Bradbury and Evans in "The
Gardeners' Chronicle" (in whose columns he had first published the "Cottagers' Calendar"),
to say nothing of his "Flower Garden," which he and Dr. Lindley edited for them. Sir Joseph
Paxton, then, was a constant and appreciative attendant at the Punch Table until the year 1865,
the date of his death.

Mr. Peter Rackham, too, was another guest--the guest, again, and valued friend of the publishers--well
understood to have given financial assistance in respect to the founding of the "Daily News."
He was a highly esteemed friend of Thackeray and Dickens both, and the novelists and their
publishers would send him presentation copies of their new works. The former, by the way, presented
him with a copy of his "Virginians" when it appeared, inscribing it to Mr. Rackham in this
characteristic manner:--"In the U. States and in the Queen's dominions All people have a right
to their opinions And many don't much relish The Virginians. Peruse my book, dear R., and if
you find it A little to your taste I hope you'll bind it." Mr. Rackham ceased his visits to
the Table in 1859, in which year, I understand, he died. Another visitor, as all the world
now knows, was Dean Reynolds Hole, who has recorded in his "Memories" his impressions of that
famous Dinner of February 15th, 1860. To me, also, he has given an idea of the effect wrought
upon him by the frolic of the meal--an impression certainly not dimmed by time nor faded in
his imagination. He says: "There was such a clash and glitter of sharp-edged swords, cutting
humour, and pointed wit (to say nothing of the knives and forks), the sallies of the combatants
were so incessant and intermixed, the field of battle so enveloped in smoke, that there was
only a kaleidoscopic confusion of brilliant colours in the vision of the spectator, when the
signal was given to 'cease firing.'" Who would not attend a Punch dinner after that?

A frequent visitor was Mr. Samuel Lucas--known to his fellow-workers as plain "Sam Lucas"--who
was then editing the newly-founded "Once a Week" for Bradbury and Evans. His attendance, which
was constant enough between the years 1860 and 1864, was--like that of his sub-editor, Mr.
Walford--doubtless a great convenience to all concerned, for most of the Punch artists and
writers were also contributors to the more serious magazine, and arrangements could obviously
be more quickly and effectively made at a single meeting than by a number of special interviews.
Sir W. H. ("Billy") Russell, too, "dined on several occasions at the Punch Table, when Mr.
Mark Lemon and Mr. Shirley Brooks were the Editors of the paper;" the introduction, it is understood,
being at the time when he was correcting the proofs of his Crimean book, which Bradbury and
Evans were printing.

And, lastly, Sir John Millais--himself a contributor to Punch's pages--was once a Dinner guest.
"I certainly dined once," he wrote to me a year or two ago, "at an hotel in Covent Garden ['Bedford
Hotel'] when Mark Lemon was editor of Punch, and I have always been under the impression it
was one of their Dinners. The Staff only were present, and Lemon was in the chair, and I sat
beside Leech. There were ten or twelve dining beside myself, and it was on a Wednesday."

This point settled, then, as to Dinner guests--among whom, says the proprietress of the "Bedford
Hotel" (the niece, by the way, of Mark Lemon), Peter Cunningham should also be included--other
visitors there are to be considered. If Punch does not rigidly obey the Biblical behest, and
when on duty bent is not wholly "given to hospitality," he at least has allowed hospitality
to sit with gladness when the business of the evening is done. From time to time outside friends
were introduced, and, according to one witness, whose testimony I am unable to confirm, Tom
Hood, Barham ("Tom Ingoldsby"), and Charles Knight have, at intervals, been entertained "after
business hours." The Staff, at such times, would go into Committee over cigars and drinks and
literary talk and jokes, and Leech would rumble out in his splendid great bass voice Barry
Cornwall's "King Death." This was the only song of his which his friends remember; and Ponny
Mayhew would seek to emulate it with the musical setting of Thackeray's "Mahogany Tree." He
sang that song in chorus, all upstanding, that sad Christmas Eve when Thackeray died, among
his friends of the Kensington côterie. He had brought in the fatal news to the jovial party,
and then, says Mr. Frederick Greenwood, he proceeded: "I'll tell you what we'll do. We'll sing
the dear old boy's 'Mahogany Tree;' he'd like it." "Accordingly we all stood up, and with such
memory of the words as each possessed ... and a catching of the breath here and there by about
all of us, the song was sung."

Then come the special Punch dinners, official and otherwise. In 1863 there was the Shakespeare
dinner, that was held to arrange the Shakespeare Tercentenary number of Punch; and a quarter
of a century later there was the Paris junketting that resulted in the Paris Exhibition number.
Then there was the yearly festival celebrated by Sir William Agnew, and the "Almanac Dinner,"
which was usually held about the month of September--in olden times, from 1850 to 1885--always
at the "Bedford," but lately discontinued; and there is the Annual Dinner to the printers and
the rest given by the firm--the first of which, under the name of "wayzgoose," took place at
the "Highbury Barn Tavern." At these entertainments the Staff would sometimes attend and fraternise
with printers and engravers, and would make a point of congratulating those "wood-cutters"
whose recent work had specially delighted them.

Punch has always been strong on Jubilees, and his "boys" have done their best to maintain them
as a sacred tradition. On January 3rd, 1853, Jerrold celebrated his fiftieth birthday with
a dinner given to the whole of his colleagues. Baily, the sculptor, was one of the "outside"
guests on the occasion, and was so charmed with the brilliancy and jollity of the company that
he offered, and in due time redeemed his promise, to execute its hero's bust. That work, one
of the finest of the old Academician's portrait-busts, now, if I mistake not, belongs to the
nation's collection of its great men's portraits. On Wednesday, June 27th, 1866, the memorable
picnic and dinner took place at Burnham Beeches, to celebrate Mr. Punch's fiftieth volume,
when the popular Editor received from his proprietors a purse of a hundred guineas and a tankard,
and from them and the Staff a gold watch and chain of eleven links, with a lock in the form
of a book, as recounted in the sketch of Mark Lemon's life.

Then, again, there was Thackeray's "Atonement Dinner," if I may call it so, for the slight
he had unthinkingly cast upon the Staff. The learned gentlemen who write the work must feel
that, without him, it were as well left alone." Picture the indignation in the office, imagine
how strongly would be resented this faux pas of Thackeray, in which he allowed his enthusiasm
for one friend to overlook, and that not inoffensively, the feelings of the others! The writer
was abroad at the bursting of his little bomb, and no one was more distressed than himself
at the result of the explosion or readier to admit the fault. He wrote a handsome letter of
apology to Percival Leigh--he explained how "of all the slips of my fatal pen, there's none
I regret more than the unlucky half-line which has given pain," and declared that it was more
than his meaning; and he begged furthermore that the memory of the lapsus--painful equally
to him and to Leech--might be wiped out in a dinner given by himself to the confraternity.
And they all came to his house in Kensington Palace Gardens, and Thackeray was duly chaffed
and teased--"and who can doubt," says Trollope, "but they were very jolly over the little blunder?"

Then there was the Staff dinner at the Crystal Palace to inaugurate the new series of "The
Gentleman's Magazine," when Punch and Punch history were greatly to the fore; and the great
dinner at the "Albion" to celebrate Mr. Burnand's accession to the editorial chair--when not
only the Staff, but for the first time since the early days all "outside" contributors to Punch
were invited, when, although the subject of the cartoon had previously been settled, a certain
amount of business was gone through, just to show "how it was done." And who that was there
on that great occasion will forget the speech of Mr. Blatchford--an artist who was the natural
successor to Colonel Howard--he who signed his drawings with a trident?--or Mr. Sala's sallies,
in the funniest of orations, at the expense of Mr. Sambourne, who had expressly not donned
evening dress? Still more important than this was the Jubilee dinner held on July 19th, 1891,
just five-and-twenty years after the Burnham Beeches picnic--in honour of Mr. Punch's hundredth
volume. The "Ship" at Greenwich was the place of venue. With Mr. Burnand in the chair, the
members of the Staff seated as represented in Mr. Sambourne's well-known drawing of "The Mahogany
Tree," with Mr. W. H. Bradbury and Sir William Agnew at one end of the table, with toasts to
Mr. Punch himself, to Sir John Tenniel, to Mr. Burnand, and to the proprietors, the enthusiasm
"first grew warm and then grew hot;" and when a presentation of a silver cigar-box had been
made to the Editor, it was duly resolved to meet again, the same company in the same place,
fifty years hence!

The last state event in the world of Punch-politico-rejoicings was the dinner to Sir John Tenniel
on the occasion of his knighthood. Then the banquet was held at Hampton Court, and the "Mitre"
was the scene of the ceremony. All the enthusiasm of the Jubilee revels reappeared in an intensified
form. For not only was it all focussed upon one man, but in his case there was a great personal
triumph, a national recognition of a great work and of a splendid career, and in the eyes of
the world the justification of that mighty art of black-and-white, which through the printing-press
is a greater vital force than any other existing form of art--though despised till now in all
official quarters--the art by which Punch rose to his pinnacle of greatness. And added to all
this was the emotional note that prevailed throughout the harmony of the feast, for not even
Leech himself had captured more hearts than Tenniel--that Grand Old Man of Punch for whom not
one member of the staff but entertains an affection of the warmest and the most cordial character,
which even respectful esteem has had no power in moderating. But one event, and only one, could
call forth greater enthusiasm and greater emotion, and that, I apprehend, is when in six years
time his Jubilee on Punch, by the kindness of Fate, comes to be celebrated by his loving and
admiring colleagues.

Such are the chief semi-official dinners that have been held; but the list would be swelled
were those other occasions included when these men--never sated, it would really seem, with
each other's company--would invite the rest of the Staff, or most of it, to dine at their private
houses. How many of these entertainments were offered by Leech to the light-hearted and frisky
band who

  "Judicious drank and greatly daring dined"!

How many anecdotes might be told of such réunions, as they swooped down on Landells or on Lemon
at Herne Bay, or, in the rollicking days of youthful indiscretion, would adjourn at midnight
to serenade the snoringly unconscious Hine away in the wilds of Hampstead!

Certain complimentary dinners offered to the Punch Staff should find a record here, if only
on the ground of completeness. The first public recognition was the Mansion House dinner which,
under the title of "Literature and Art," included the Punch Staff, together with Charles Dickens,
the members of the Royal Academy, and a few newspaper men. Dickens has left it upon record
how his feelings were hurt at the tactless way in which the well-meaning Lord Mayor, Sir James
Duke, Bart., M.P., imparted to his guests the pleasure it was to him to meet with mere talent
after being satiated with blood and rank in the persons of Royalties, Dukes, and Cabinet Ministers.
He made them feel, in fact--and resent not a little--how hitherto the Mansion House had drawn
its line at them, an error which Sir Stuart Knill in 1893 had the better taste to avoid. Somewhat
of a similar blunder was made by Lord Carlisle, who invited Thackeray, Jerrold, and others
of the Punch men to meet one or two of their own set, firmly persuaded that he was about to
revel in brilliant conversation, entirely forgetful of the fact that in all probability they
were perfectly familiar with the others' stories and had their tricks of humour by heart. The
result, as might have been expected, was an entertainment of conventional dulness. How could
you expect, at a meal so pretentiously forced, of such affected joviality, to hear Jerrold
ask the butler for "some of the old, not the elder, port"? as he would in the sanctity of their
own precincts; or retort on one who declared his liking for calf's-tail, "Extremes meet!" or
(when the dish was calf's-head), "What egotism!" and yet again, "There's brotherly love for
you!" Not at my Lord Carlisle's, as in Bouverie Street, would you hear Shirley Brooks ask the
famous two-edged riddle which Dean Hole reminds us of--"Why is Lady Palmerston's house like
Swan and Edgar's? Because it's the best house for muzzling Delane (mousseline de laine)"--Delane
being then unjustly suspected of having been "nobbled" during his visits to my lady's salon,
at the expense of the "Times," of which he was at that time the editor. Nor would you enjoy
the discomfiture of a disputant of "Master Douglas" (as Thackeray rather testily named him),
who, after chaffing the great wit for the unsteadiness of hand through which he broke a glass--which,
he declared, he never did--received for reply an incredulous stare, and the cutting enquiry,
"Yet I suppose you look into one every morning?"

The latest outside Punch dinner of importance which history has thought well to set upon record
is that given by Mr. Lucy ("Toby, M.P.") in order to bring together for the first time Mr.
Gladstone and the members of that Staff which, as a body, had rendered him such steady and
invaluable support for nearly half a century. What wonder, then, that the meeting was a great
success, and that everyone present was on the best of all possible terms with his fellow-diners?
Yet "Moonshine," commenting on the event, declared with malicious good-humour that "It is said
that Punch has been entertaining Mr. Gladstone. We don't believe a word of it, as we can't
conceive that Punch ever entertained anybody!" The object of this fair hit, the Editor of Punch,
forthwith sought out the epigrammatist, in the belief that here was a new humorist whose services
he might employ. He, however, who might have enlightened him, wrongly believing that the motive
of the quest was less friendship than resentment, declined to give the desired information.
But Mr. Punch appropriately avenged the insult--by subsequently absorbing it as a joke of his
own, illustrated by the hand of Mr. Reginald Cleaver.

Perhaps to these revels of the merry clan should be added the jovial meetings of the Moray
Minstrels under the hospitable direction of Mr. Arthur Lewis. And yet a stronger claim on the
memory of those who now bear Mr. Punch's bâton between them are the meetings referred to in
the letter from the late Sir A. H. Layard, which I received shortly before his death: "I was
intimately acquainted with Tom Taylor, R. Doyle, and other contributors to Punch, and constantly
met them at Taylor's table; but I do not remember to have dined at a 'Punch Table' on one of
the Wednesday evenings. You may probably be aware that they, like myself, were in the habit
of spending Sunday with Sir Alexander and Lady Duff Gordon, in their house at Esher, where
many articles and jokes and sketches which appeared in the periodical were discussed." These
meetings, however, must have taken place before the time of the "Papal Aggression," and some
little while, consequently, before Sir John Tenniel was enlisted as a recruit.

Who will say, in the face of all this, that Punch has not learned the secret of combining pleasure
with business, practising the art with infinite satisfaction to himself and with the applause
of succeeding generations? "Where Macgregor sits, there is the head of the table," said the
Scottish chieftain. Where Mr. Punch sits, say those of a later day, there is the flow of wit
and of laughter--there the fountain of that fun which has stamped his journal as representative
of what is most characteristic and best in English humour--there the source of the art which
has been the greatest school of wood-drawing and cutting, and of true caricature, that this
country has ever seen. Good-nature is the quality rarest and most remarkable in a political
and social journal. How much of Punch's excellent temper, I wonder, is not to be attributed
to his meat before grace? Whether "the Dinner" be the sole cause, I do not venture to pronounce,
though I submit the question for the consideration of mankind; but is it not imaginable that
high living goes for something in the sum of Punch's high thinking? and may it not almost be
said of him, as Moore sang of Sheridan, that his wit

  "... in the combat, as gentle as bright,
  Ne'er carried a heart-stain away on its blade"?

For a short time only the Punch Club flourished. "Its object," writes Landells, "was to form
a little society amongst ourselves to talk over and settle upon subjects for the paper of the
coming week. It was not strictly confined to the Punch writers and artists, for friends and
well-wishers were admitted, and had here an opportunity of entertaining their ideas in a sociable
and agreeable manner. Besides those on the regular Staff of Punch, there were members of the
club Mr. Grieve the scene-painter, Mr. Henry Baylis, Mr. Tully the composer,[9] Mr. Joseph
Allen the artist, and I have seen in addition Mr. Charles Dickens, Mr. Stanfield, Mr. Frank
Stone, Mr. Landseer, and other celebrities, in that little snug and comfortable room. Here
the inimitable Douglas Jerrold was in his glory, showing off his ready sparkling wit, his joyous
hearty laugh ringing out above them all. Alas! several of this once brilliant company have
now passed away, but those who remain will ever remember the many happy hours spent in the
old Punch Club."

In his "canino-classic" poem already mentioned--entitled "Sodalitas Punchica, seu Clubbus Noster"--Percival
Leigh gives some further particulars of the membership of the Club--lines which I translate
somewhat freely, perhaps, yet with all the reverence due to their academic beauty:

  "The names of some of our greatest men the Poet now indites--
  Old Mark and Henry Mayhew, two of Punch's brightest lights--
  (The first beats Aristotle blue; the second, Sophocles):
  Then enter Douglas Jerrold's self, our greatest wit and tease--
  Who treats his friends like Paddy Whack, his love for them to prove;
  And Tully great, whose talent flows in just as great a groove;
  Then Hodder, of the "Morning Herald," sheds the light he brings,
  And Albert Smith the mighty--and the Poet's self who sings.
      O'er these our ancient Nestor rules, who lived when lived Queen Anne,
      And even knew old Japhet--or 'twas so the story ran."

H. G. Hine, who was afterwards to become the Vice President of the Royal Institute of Painters
in Water-Colours, was elected a member; but his taste lay neither in the direction of Clubs
nor in the absorption of strong drink. And least of all did he love Bohemia. "I only dined
with them once," he wrote to me, "and then at the 'Belle Sauvage.' The dinner was given by
the proprietors of Punch to the Staff. They found the Club already in existence, and desired
to have some part in it, or, as was said at the time, to place their finger in its pie. I believe
this to have been the only Dinner held at the 'Belle Sauvage.' I may mention in connection
with the Punch Club (whose meetings, which were not Dinners generally, were held on Saturdays)
that much chaff and practical joking were indulged in, and that was one reason for my non-attendance.
On one occasion when Albert Smith wanted his hat and umbrella on leaving the Club, the attendant
presented him pawn-tickets for the articles. He was extremely annoyed, sent the man for a policeman,
and gave the whole Club into custody; and they had to pay the redemption price, besides looking
very foolish. It was Horace Mayhew told me of this." It has been said that this was the last
straw on Smith's back, and settled his withdrawal from Punch. But it is only fair to add that
the indignity of which Albert Smith complained was thoroughly in accordance with the spirit
of the practical joking that went on at the time, while the reason of the pledging was said
to be the forcing of the unwilling, hyper-economical Smith to "stand punch round," as all the
others did from time to time, he taking his full share of the liquor, though he declined to
entertain in his turn.

Albert Smith, indeed, during the time he was connected with Punch was usually the butt of the
jokers, particularly of Douglas Jerrold, but rarely did he so completely turn the tables on
his tormentors as on this occasion. Yet he was not averse to chaff, particularly when he applied
it to others. One day, at the Club, Mark Lemon had been remarking that he had no peculiarities,
at least not more than other men, and certainly none that he knew of. "For example," said he,
"many men have some peculiarity in shaving--some shave with the right hand, others with the
left, or some with either indifferently." "What do you shave with?" asked Albert Smith. "With
my right hand," replied the Editor. "Then that's your peculiarity, Uncle Mark," said Smith;
"most people shave with a razor."

No doubt the fun was often a little rough, and that the members were a little ashamed of it;
for when Mark Lemon introduced there Mr. Catling, the editor of "Lloyd's Weekly Newspaper,"
he picturesquely warned his guest to be prepared for "an awful set of blackguards." On the
night in question, however, the fun was flatter, and Kenny Meadows, the Father of the Feast,
distinctly peppery.

On the occasion of Mr. R. J. Hamerton's visit Jerrold was in high feather, and, waxing eloquent
on the growing influence of Punch, cried for silence while he proclaimed its ingredients. Gilbert
à Beckett, he declared, was the spirit, and John Leech the sugar; Albert Smith was the water;
himself, he confessed, was the acid; and Mark Lemon--the spoon. And among other little witticisms
of the Punchites which memory has set on record is a conversation among them on the subject
of the payment of income-tax. With most of them there was in the earliest days little income
and less tax, and strange were the stories told. At last one, whose name has not been preserved,
quietly asserted that he honestly filled in the declaration each year, and honourably paid
the demand which was regularly served upon him. The company's surprise had increased to contemptuous
incredulity, when their Quixotic friend proceeded: "I don't think I lose by it, I always take
the average of three years, according to the regulation; so I take the present year and the
two future ones--and you fellows know what a pessimist I am!"

It was usually at the "Whistling Oyster" that the meetings of the Club were held. The little
house was conveniently situated, as already explained, next door to the "Crown"--now Number
12 or 12A Vinegar Yard. At this place a Mr. Pearkes had opened an oyster shop nearly twenty
years before, and his little rooms were frequented by the most talented of the denizens of
Bohemia--literary, theatrical, and artistic. One day, in the early 'Forties, the proprietor,
to his amazement, heard one of his oysters whistling--a continuous shrill little whistle, doubtless
through a hole in its shell. The fact was at once noised abroad, and crowds visited his shop
to listen to the sibilant mollusc, which not only whistled, but, it was said with some truth,
drew the town as effectively as old Drury herself, on the other side of the court.

The rain of jokes that followed was ceaseless, and Punch's not the worst. He celebrated the
bivalve in his pages by picture and by word, and his young men made the best of the incident.
Douglas Jerrold, says Walter Thornbury, suggested that it was one of the sentimental kind which,
having been crossed in love, took to whistling to keep up appearances and show it didn't care.
Thackeray declared in all seriousness that he had heard an American in the shop, after listening
to the performance, gravely assert that at home in Massachusetts they had a much cleverer oyster,
which not only whistled "Yankee Doodle" from beginning to end, but followed his master about
like a dog. And it was further suggested that, report having exaggerated the powers of the
performer into being able to whistle "God save the Queen," the proprietor had been requested
to take it to Windsor Castle, but that the command had been summarily cancelled when it was
ascertained that the musician was a "native!" The result to the fortunate proprietor was a
substantial one; his house became known and for many years kept up its reputation on the deformity
of a twopenny shell-fish. It is, therefore, hardly surprising that "other vermin" took to music
as well; that about the same time a "singing mouse" made its appearance, duly touring in London
and the provinces; and that Punch made the most of the engaging little virtuoso.

For some few years, then, the Punch Club flourished. In Hal Baylis it had an ideal chairman,
roystering, jovial, witty, side-splitting--the only man, in the opinion of many, who could
draw his sword and maintain his ground against Jerrold's cut and thrust. So good were his sayings,
or so adaptable to Punch's purpose, that his position in the Club was respected, and he was
put upon the free list, and received his weekly copy of the paper up to the day of his death.
He was originally a printer, then a newspaper proprietor and editor; but fate had been unkind
to him, and in the days of his presidency he had come to be an advertisement canvasser. He
ruled with royal dignity, but knew the limit to his powers; and when Landells made his appeal
to "the boys" at one of the dinners to "see him righted" in connection with his quarrel with
Bradbury and Evans, he comforted the ex-engraver as best he could, and skilfully passed to
the "Order of the day."

Of Baylis's judgment of character and capacity Landells has left the following example: "One
evening at the Punch Club there had been more than the usual amount of chaff going on between
Henry Baylis and Douglas Jerrold, when the former suddenly said, 'If you will give me a pen
and ink I will make a prophecy that shall be fulfilled within two years. It shall be sealed
up and given to Daddy Longlegs [myself] upon his undertaking not to open it before the expiration
of that time.' The paper was handed to me, and carefully put by. Time passed, and I had forgotten
the circumstance altogether, when some years afterwards, looking over some old pocket-books,
I found a sealed letter addressed to 'Daddy Longlegs, Esq.--to be opened two years after date.'
On breaking the seal I found the following: 'I, Henry Baylis, do hereby prophesy that within
two years from this date Douglas Jerrold will write something that shall be as popular as anything
that Charles Dickens ever wrote.'" Within those two years the "Caudle Lectures" had been produced
and Baylis's prophecy fulfilled.

Nothing of the old Club now remains--it passed away with the Old Guard of Punch's youthful
days; and just as Punch himself from a mere street-show puppet rose to reigning wit and arch-philosopher,
so practically has his Club-house been lost to Drury Lane and instead lends dignity to Garrick
Street.

One other club--essentially also a Punch côterie--remains to be mentioned: the "Two Pins Club."
A riding club in the first instance, it consists of not a dozen members, who periodically jogg
off to Richmond or elsewhere to take exercise and lunch together in riding-breeches and good-fellowship.
Of these the chief members have been Lord Russell of Killowen (who on his elevation to the
Bench as Lord Chief Justice sent in his resignation, as you may see in Mr. Linley Sambourne's
cartoon of July 14th, 1894, by the letters on the scroll Lord Russell holds: "P.P.C.--T.P.C."),
Mr. Burnand, Sir John Tenniel, Mr. Linley Sambourne, Mr. E. T. Reed, Mr. Harry Furniss, Sir
Frank Lockwood, the Hon. Mr. Russell, Sir Arthur Sullivan, Mr. John Hare, Sir Edward Lawson,
Mr. George Alexander, and Mr. C. H. Matthews. But the savour of Punch is over it all, and though
outsiders are of it, it is as much a Punch club of Punch origin as the one that went before.
It has been said that there is difference of opinion as to the source of its name, it being
supposed that it arose from one of the founders declaring that "it didn't matter two pins what
name it bore." The simple truth is that it was christened after the names of two great riding
worthies--at least one worthy, the other unworthy--of English literature: John Gilpin and Dick
Turpin; of the latter of whom Thomas Hood tells us that when the romantic malefactor was righteously
hanged, after a spirit-swilling career, he died of having had "a drop too much."

FOOTNOTES:

[7] The initials and monograms appear in the following order round the Table: 1, Mark Lemon;
2, F. C. Burnand (second carving, after stencil by Prof. Herkomer, R.A.); 3, John Tenniel;
4, Shirley Brooks; 5, Arthur à Beckett; 6, R. C. Lehmann; 7, W. M. Thackeray; 8, Henry Silver;
9, Harry Furniss; 10, John Leech; 11, G. du Maurier; 12, W. Bradbury; 13, Douglas Jerrold;
14, E. J. Milliken; 15, F. M. Evans; 16, Tom Taylor; 17, Linley Sambourne; 18, Phil May; 19,
J. Bernard Partridge; 20, E. T. Reed; 21, H. W. Lucy; 22, F. C. Burnand (first carving); 23,
Gilbert à Beckett; 24, Anstey Guthrie; 25, Horace Mayhew; 26, Percival Leigh. Charles H. Bennett
died before he could complete his monogram, and Mr. R. F. Sketchley neglected the duty--an
omission he ever after regretted.

[8] See Punch cartoon, "Who will Rouse Him?" (March 12th, 1859).

[9] Who subsequently put Hood's "Song of the Shirt" to music (published from the Punch office,
price 2s. 6d.), as well as the "Songs for the Sentimental," "Punch's own Polka" (printed in
Punch September 7th, 1844), and probably also "The Queen's Speech, as it is to be sung by the
Lord Chancellor" (Punch, Feb., 1843).

The social and political attitude of Punch to-day is a very different thing from what it was
when the paper first claimed public attention and support. "When we are impecunious," says
Mr. du Maurier, "we must needs be democratic." And democratic Punch was in Jerrold's era, although
from no mercenary or unworthy motive. Later on, the club and the drawing-room frankly recognised
the power wielded by the paper, and, by that very acknowledgment, influenced it to an obvious
degree. Then came the sentiment of Church and State, and the Palmerston patriotic pose that
was most to the taste of the threepenny public; and for a long time the plucky, cheery, careless,
"Civis-Romanus-Sum," "hang-Reform" statesman was the special pet of Punch, and more particularly
of Shirley Brooks. When that Editor died, Tom Taylor imparted a decidedly Radical, anti-Beaconsfield,
anti-Imperial turn; but since the régime of Mr. Burnand a lighter and more non-committal attitude
has been adopted and maintained.

Speaking generally, the prevailing Punch tradition with regard to matters political--at least,
in the belief of its conductors--has been to hold the balance fairly between the parties, to
avoid fixed and bitter partisanships, to "hit all round" as occasion seemed to demand, and
to award praise where it appeared to be deserved. If there was to be a general "list" or "lean,"
it was to be towards a moderate Liberalism--towards sympathy with the popular cause of freedom
both of act and speech, and enthusiastic championship of the poor and oppressed.

If, especially within recent years, Punch has claimed one merit more than another, it is to
as fair a neutrality as is possible to a strong-minded individuality with unmistakable political
views. Conservatives have long since protested against what has been called its "hideous Gladstonolatry
and bourgeois Liberalism," and declaimed against the occasional partisan spirit of the "Essence
of Parliament." "There is a popular periodical," said Mr. Gladstone, in his Edinburgh speech
of September 29th, 1893, "which, whenever it can, manifests the Liberal sentiments by which
it has been guided from the first. I mean the periodical Punch." Indeed, to that party has
always been given the benefit of the doubt. But one of the chief organs of Radicalism[10] has
complained of an attack on a Liberal Cabinet as "merely a pictorial insult;" and the professional
Home Ruler has denounced with characteristic emphasis the representation by Punch of the Irish
voter, bound hand and foot, terrorised and intimidated by his priest, who exclaims: "Stop there
till you vote as I tell you, or it's neither marry nor bury you I will!" From all of which
it may fairly be deduced that Punch, with occasional lapses of an excusable kind, has, on the
whole, fairly upheld his character for the neutrality proper to one who is accepted as the
National Satirist, even though--like the Irish judge--"he is most just when he lanes a bit
on my soide."

"The Table" has always shown an amalgam of Conservative and Liberal instincts and leanings,
though the former have never been those of the "predominant partner." The constant effort of
the Staff is to be fair and patriotic, and to subordinate their personal views to the general
good. This is the first aim. For, whatever the public may think, neither Editor nor Staff is
bound by any consideration to any party or any person, but hold themselves free to satirise
or to approve "all round." Disraeli they quizzed and caricatured freely; but they always admitted
his fine traits and brilliant talents. Gladstone they more consistently glorified for his eloquence,
high-mindedness, and skill; but from time to time they would trounce him roundly for his vacillations
or other political shortcomings.

In the earlier days of Punch it was more common to make a dead-set at individuals--as at Lord
Brougham, "Dizzy," Lord Aberdeen, and, during his earlier career, John Bright. But many things
were done forty years ago which nowadays "the Table" would neither tolerate nor excuse--such
as certain attacks upon defenceless royalty (more particularly upon Prince Albert) as being
both unfair and in bad taste. The courteous high-mindedness of Sir John Tenniel has made greatly
for this mellowing and moderation, to the point, indeed, that many complain that Punch no longer
hits out straight from the shoulder. This peaceable tendency obviously arises from neither
fear nor sycophancy, but from an anxious desire to be entirely just and good-natured, and to
avoid coarseness or breach of taste.

Much of the change in Punch has simply been the inevitable accompaniment of change in the times--in
the tastes, manners, social polish, and sensitive feelings of the courteous and urbane. It
is so easy to be strong in the sense in which an onion is strong; but Punch has long since
cast away that kind of force. Many and many a time an admirable "subject" for a cartoon has
been rejected--pointed, picturesque, or droll, as the case may be--because some one has raised
the question, "But would that be quite fair?" Jerrold was bitterly caustic and sometimes neither
just nor merciful in his Quixotic tilting at upper-class windmills; and Leech, in his earlier
work, was often fiercely drastic. But there was more democratic outspokenness, more middle-class
downrightness, and less of the Constitutional Club and drawing-room element in those ante-du
Maurier days. But men and artists alter, and become moulded and modified by their environments,
and it may safely be said that there is to-day no effort on Punch's part to be "smart," anti-popular,
anti-bourgeois, or anti-anything, save anti-virulent and anti-vulgar.

In no department of public affairs has Punch shown greater advance than in that of the public
Faith. Punch the Religionist--I use the expression in all seriousness--while sturdily maintaining
his own ground, and as the representative of "the great Protestant middle-class" swiftly denouncing
the slightest show of sacerdotalism, has displayed an increasing tolerance and liberal-mindedness
that were not his most notable characteristics in his youthful days. High Church and Low, bishops
and clergy, Protestant and Catholic, from the Pope to Mr. Spurgeon, have all at times come
under his lash.

Mr. Punch has ever kept his eye attentively on the affairs of the Church. In his first volume
he supported the agitation against the old-fashioned, high-panelled, curtained pew, at the
same time cordially endorsing the Temperance movement of the young Irish priest, Father Mathew.
The cause of the curate he has always upheld with a zeal that has betrayed him on more than
one occasion into injustice to the bishops; wherein he has erred in company with his fellow-sage,
the Sage of Coniston. And the cause of the poor man, up to the point of Sunday opening of museums
and picture galleries, has always been an article of his religious creed, although in a pulpit
reference the Rev. A. G. Girdlestone declared that Punch's policy was temporarily reversed
during one editorship in consequence of its being found that the men on the mechanical staff
of the paper were themselves opposed to the movement.

In Punch's first decade Pope Pius IX. was popular with Englishmen and with Punch by reason
of his liberalism. But towards the end of 1850 the cry of "Papal Aggression" broke out, and
the popular excitement, already aroused over Puseyism, was fanned to an extraordinary pitch.
The situation at that time is described in subsequent chapters dealing with Richard Doyle and
Cartoons; but reference must here be made to the violence with which Punch caught the fever--how
he published a cartoon (Sir John Tenniel's first) representing Lord John Russell as David attacking
Dr. Wiseman, the Roman Goliath.[11] In due time, however, the excitement passed away. Dr. Wiseman
received his Cardinal's hat, Lord John was satisfied with having asserted the Protestant supremacy,
Richard Doyle left the paper, and nobody, except Punch, seemed a penny the worse, save that
the popular suspicion, once aroused, was not for several years entirely allayed. The "Papal
Aggression" agitation smouldered on for a year or two in the paper; but Punch was not too much
engrossed to be prevented from giving his support to Mr. Horsman's Bill for enquiry into the
revenues of the bishops of the Established Church, whom, in one of Leech's cartoons, he represented
as carrying off in their aprons all the valuables on which they could lay their hands.

Thenceforward Punch's religious war was directed chiefly against Puseyism and its "toys"--by
which were designated the cross, candlesticks, and flowers. The Pope was still with him an
object of ridicule, and in one case at least of inexcusably coarse insult; but he was by this
time (1861) shorn of his temporal power, and had become the "Prisoner of the Vatican;" and
his "liberalism," so much applauded in his ante-aggressive days, was all forgotten. Nevertheless,
some of Punch's references were harmless and innocent enough, such as that in which he asks,
in 1861: "Why can the Emperor of the French never be Pope?" and himself replies, "Because it
is impossible that three crowns can ever make one Napoleon."

Less fierce, but much more constant, was the ridicule meted out to the Jews. The merry prejudice
entertained by John Leech and Gilbert Abbott à Beckett alike against the Jewish community was
to some extent shared not only by kindly Thackeray himself, but even by Jerrold, and was expressive
no doubt of the general feeling of the day. Mark Lemon certainly did nothing to temper the
flood of merciless derision which Punch for a while poured upon the whole house of Israel,
and some of Brooks's verses are to this day quoted with keen relish in anti-Semitic circles.
In his campaign against the sweaters in the early 'Forties a picture appeared in the Almanac
for 1845 in which such an employer was represented by Leech as a Jew of aldermanic proportions,
rich and bloated in appearance and of monstrous ostentation and vulgarity. Yet Punch's hatred
was really only skin-deep, or, at least, was directed against manners rather than against men;
and this fact, curiously enough, gave rise to one of those misunderstandings of which the paper
has from time to time been the subject. In the spring of 1844 the "Morning Post" was vigorously
denounced by Punch for suggesting such a possibility as a "gentleman Jew," and proposed that
the "accursed dogs" had more than their rights in being spoken of as "persons of the Hebrew
faith." Thereupon a Jewish reader, considering that Punch's expression bordered upon rudeness,
and that the sufferance which was his tribal badge need not under the circumstances seal his
lips, wrote to protest against the "malice and grossness of language"--for he had failed to
appreciate Punch's robust irony and too carefully veiled championship. Then, in one of those
generous moods which often directed Jerrold's pen, Punch explained. (Vol. VI., 1844, p. 106.)
He pointed out how his article had been directed against the "bygone bigotry and present uncharitableness"
of the "Morning Post;" he quoted Defoe's "Short Way with Dissenters," in which the author satirically
advocated their social rights, as an example of how one may be misunderstood by the men they
desire to serve; he reminded his readers how, when "Gulliver's Travels" was published, a certain
bishop publicly proclaimed that he didn't believe a word of it; and he asked if he--Punch--should
complain, then, when his advocacy of common rights and liberties of the Hebrew is "arraigned
of malice, prejudice, and jealousy." But the Jewish Disabilities Removal Bill had not at that
time been introduced.

It was in 1847 that this measure was brought in, and Punch was nearly as much alarmed as he
subsequently was at the "Papal Aggression." Punch for a time was as strong on the subject as
the fanatical Sir Robert Inglis himself; and Leech's cartoon of Baron de Rothschild trying
to force his nose--the "thin end of the wedge," he called it--between the doors of the House
of Commons was regarded as a very felicitous and brilliant hit. But even then Punch was willing
to let the other side of the question be heard; and in an ingenious adaptation of Shylock's
soliloquy (p. 247, Vol. XIII., 1847) dedicated to Sir Robert Inglis--beginning "Hath not a
Jew brains?" and ending, "If we obey your government, shall we have no hand in it? If we are
like you in the rest, we ought to resemble you in that"--the whole case of Lord John Russell
and the supporters of the measure was clearly put forth. Similarly, when at the very time that
Punch was making the most of any fun that could be got out of his Jewish butt, the "Strangers'
Friend Society" appealed for funds on the ground that the urgency of their charitable needs
would "dissolve even the hardest, the most magnetic astringent Jewish mind," Punch vigorously
protested against the quaintness of that virtue and charity which would batten upon the faithful
by tickling their pet prejudice against the Jews, and declared that "the Society's healing
goodness would be none the worse for not spurting its gall at any portion of the family of
men." And in more recent times Punch has carried his sympathy to its furthermost point by the
powerful cartoons published during the great persecutions of the Jews in Russia, by which--for
representing the Tsar, Alexander III., as the New Pharaoh--he attained exclusion from the Holy
Empire, and from the mouthpiece of the Jewish community "gratitude in unbounded measure for
this great service in the cause of freedom and humanity."

In like manner, Punch has displayed equal kindliness of feeling for the Irish, though Home
Rule never offered strong attraction to his imagination or statesmanship. From the beginning
he always showed a genuine sympathy for what he considered genuine Irish sentiment and suffering;
but agitation, as material for political speculation, seldom recommended itself to him. In
1844 (p. 254, Vol. VII.) a cartoon by Leech was published (originally to have been called "Two
of a Trade"), in which the Tsar and Queen Victoria are chatting at a table. On the wall behind
the autocrat hangs a map of Poland; near the Queen, one of Ireland; and she, holding up her
forefinger in gentle self-admission of error, and in friendly remonstrance with her august
visitor, says softly, "Brother, brother, we're both in the wrong!" Soon afterwards Punch became,
it was said, "anti-Irish;" or, as he himself declared, he could not confound Irish misdeeds
with Irish wrongs; and it was with that view that he was wont to picture the Irish political
outrage-mongering peasant as a cross between a garrotter and a gorilla. Of course, in their
rivalries Daniel O'Connell and Smith O'Brien were satirised as the "Kilkenny Cats;" but when
the "Great Agitator" died in 1847, Punch showed how sincere was his sympathy with a people
who, rightly or wrongly, were mourning the death of their leader, and who at the time were
dying in thousands from the famine that was then black over the land. Nevertheless, he applauded
with delight the thumping majority that negatived in Parliament the motion for Repeal of the
Union. Then came a Coercion Bill, and continued seething discontent; but the sad, sweet face
of Hibernia then as ever claimed all the beauty that lay in the cartoonist's pencil. And a
year later, when the Queen visited Ireland, and a Special Court of Common Council was held
to consider the propriety of purchasing estates there, Punch showed "Gog and Magog helping
Paddy out of the Mess," and "Sir Patrick Raleigh"--a handsome Irish peasant of the right sort--laying
his mantle across a puddle, and smiling as he prays, "May it please your Majesty to tread on
the tail of my coat."

So Punch in his Irish, as in his English, home policy became, and maintained the attitude of,
an Old Liberal, an elderly member of the Reform Club, with just enough desire for reform to
be written down a Radical by Tories, and enough Conservatism and patriotism to be denounced
as a Jingo, or its equivalent, by their opponents. But he went steadily on; and when Mr. Gladstone
became converted to Home Rule, Punch declined to be committed to the policy. He maintained
his independence and his Whiggery, in spite of the personal feeling and friendship of the chief
proprietor of the paper for the aged statesman. Private sentiment was sacrificed to public
need, and the position of Punch, and his character for political stability, were thereby further
assured.

       *       *       *       *       *

At the time of Punch's birth the Queen had sat four years upon the throne, and had recently
entered into happy wedded life, Louis Napoleon was living a life in London not at all upon
the Imperial plan; Señorita de Montijo, the future Empress, was a young lady of small expectations
in Spain--the daughter of the Comtesse de Montijo, of the Kirkpatrick family; and the Emperor
William, who was destined in the fulness of time to crush them both, was a political star of
at most the fourth magnitude. Bismarck, Gladstone, and Disraeli were names already known to
the public--Mr. Disraeli, indeed, being of those who took part in the debate the result of
which was to turn out Lord Melbourne's Government (August, 1841) and send in Sir Robert Peel's,
in which Mr. Gladstone took his place as Vice-President of the Board of Trade and Master of
the Mint. But, like Punch, they were but beginning life; Mr. Gladstone was a Tory and High
Churchman; Free Trade and the Corn Law Repeal were as questions hardly yet "acute;" and neither
Bright nor Cobden had entered the House of Commons. Punch, therefore, entered the field at
an interesting moment, and began by boldly proclaiming his impartiality:

     "POLITICS.--'PUNCH' has no party prejudices--he is conservative in
     his opposition to Fantoccini and political puppets, but a
     progressive Whig in his love of small change."

When Disraeli, equally with his rival, changed his party, the fact was recorded in a happy
parody of Hood's well-known verses:--

  "Young Ben he was a nice young man,
    An author by his trade,
  He fell in love with Poly Tics,
    And soon an M.P. made.
  He was a Rad-ical one day,
    He met a Tory crew,
  His Poly Tics he cast away,
    And then turned Tory too."

Soon he was leader of the little "Young England Party," and was to be seen in Punch's cartoon
as a viper gnawing at the "old file," Sir Robert Peel. Then came the triumph of Free Trade,
duly celebrated by John Leech in one of his most light-hearted cartoons.

The fatal year of 1848 opened with the memorable letter of the Prince de Joinville, at that
time a young man of thirty, which set half Europe looking to their national defences, but which
pretended to be aimed only at an invasion of England. There was, of course, a scare, not to
say a panic, in official circles; but Punch was one of the few who kept their heads, making
capital galore out of the situation. He never tired of deriding the fiery young prince, who
was only too glad a little later on to "invade" England in the character of refugee. The French
army, he declared (by the pen of Percival Leigh), would land, after suffering all the tortures
of sea-sickness, carefully watched by the Duke of Wellington from a Martello tower. Arrived
in London, the invaders would arrest M. Jullien, lay siege to 85, Fleet Street, but raise it
forthwith on the appearance of Mr. Punch and Toby, who would follow the fugitives in hot pursuit.
Although Punch ridiculed the matter thus, he yet proposed the formation of a Volunteer Corps,
to be called "Punch's Rifles;" and it is to be observed that he thus forestalled by four years
the actual establishment of the Exeter Volunteers. Nevertheless, Punch seriously threatened
the movement when it did come with his "Brook Green Volunteer;" yet a few years later, when
the idea was revived by the starting of Rifle Clubs, with the subsequent notion of transforming
them into regiments, Punch lent his aid. He would chaff them, of course--for it was his business
so to do--but he was proud of them all the same, and loudly applauded the spirit that inspired
them. The Volunteers, as he told the French, were "the boys who minded his shop;" and more
than one of his Staff enrolled themselves in the patriotic cause.

Chartism, though in its programme and aspirations respected by Punch, was despised for its
management and mismanagement, and was made the subject of much excellent fooling. But the stormy
European outlook gave him far more concern. In one of his cartoons all the Sovereigns are shown
in their cock-boats, storm-tossed in the Sea of Revolution, the Pope--still in the full enjoyment
of his temporal power--being the only one really comfortable and really popular. As the Champion
of Liberty the Pontiff is at various times portrayed as pressing "a draught of a Constitution"
on the kings of Sardinia and Naples and the Duke of Tuscany, dealing a knock-down blow to the
"despotism" of Austria, and spitting her eagle on a bayonet; altogether justifying his reputation
(for how short a time to last!) for stability, magnanimity, and love of progress.

In this same year of 1848 Prince Louis Napoleon made his second descent upon France, and Punch,
mindful of the fiasco of the first, prepared to give him a warm reception. His treatment from
the beginning of the Pretender and Prince-President was that of an unblushing adventurer and
charlatan. In course of time, as the Emperor became of importance in his day, he relaxed his
severity to some extent, and at times at least showed him the respect due to an ally. On other
occasions he would relapse into his original practice of violent and scornful attack--to such
a point, as is seen elsewhere, as to extort the vigorous protests of Thackeray and Ruskin.
"It is a tradition," it is said, "that when, during the entente cordiale, the Emperor and Empress
paid a visit to Her Majesty in London, two cartoons were suggested at the Punch Table to celebrate
the event. The first was heroic, representing Britannia welcoming the nephew of the great Napoleon
to her shores; the second, a 'brushed-up,' refugee-looking individual ringing at the front-door
bell of Buckingham Palace, with the legend 'Who would have thought it?' The second was selected."

The Prince-President as "The Brummagem Bonaparte out for a Ride" (the cartoon which helped
to lose Thackeray to Punch), galloping a blind horse at a precipice, was certainly in the spirit
of English popular feeling; and even the coronation of the prince made for a time but little
difference in Punch's demeanour. But when the Russian difficulty came in sight, and "the Crimean
sun rose red," Napoleon III. was treated with a certain measure of begrudged courtesy; and
when the war broke out, the tone was even cordial, and the sovereign of our allies was actually
represented as a not altogether undesirable acquaintance. The close of the war, however, left
matters much where they were, for the peace, in spite of all rejoicings, was thought to come
too soon, in order to suit the convenience of the Emperor. Once more he was distrusted in his
Italian campaign. The sincerity of his intimate letter to the Comte de Persigny, the French
Ambassador to England, was received with little credence, and John Bull replies to its tenor
thus:--

  "What has been may recur. Should a Brummagem Cæsar
    Try a dash at John Bull, after conqu'ring the Gauls,
  I intend he shall find the achievement a teaser,
    What with Armstrongs, long Enfields, and stout wooden walls."

The visit of the Empress Eugénie to the Queen at Windsor Castle, and the abolition of passports
for Englishmen in France (which Punch accepted as a latch-key, "to come and go as he liked"),
disposed the paper a little more kindly towards the Emperor; but it was for the Franco-Prussian
War to bring out the full strength and the true perspicuity of Punch's judgment. There was
little fooling here. His warning was serious and solemn; he followed every act of the great
drama with breathless interest and with unsurpassed power of apprehension and pictorial demonstration;
and his sympathy for the misfortunes of "la grande nation," and his horror at the terrors of
the Commune, did not prevent his pity going forth to the broken leader who had played and lost,
and who returned to England in a plight far sadder and more desperate than that in which he
had lived his Bohemian life thirty years before.

In considering Punch's attitude during his long career, it must be borne in mind that he has
always aimed at representing the sentiments of the better part of the country--seeing with
London's eyes, and judging by London standards. Punch is an Englishman of intense patriotism,
but primarily a Citizen of London, and a far truer incarnation of it--for all his chaff of
aldermen and turtle--than the Lord Mayor and Chairman of the County Council put together. "But
the aspects under which either British lion, Gallic eagle, or Russian bear have been regarded
by our contemplative serial," says Ruskin, in a passage which to some extent bears out this
contention, "are unfortunately dependent on the fact that all his three great designers (Tenniel,
Leech, and du Maurier) are, in the most narrow sense, London citizens. I have said that every
great man belongs not only to his own city, but to his own village. The artists of Punch have
no village to belong to; the street-corner is the face of the whole earth, and the only two
quarters of the heavenly horizon are the east and west--End." Especially did Punch represent
English feeling during the great reforms of the 'Forties and 'Fifties. Of course he made mistakes,
and many of them. "He who never made a mistake never made anything." He ground the No-Popery
organ; he defended the Ecclesiastical Titles Act; he ridiculed the Jewish Disabilities Bill;
he fostered the idea of relentless vengeance on the Indian mutineers and rebels, and bitterly
opposed Lord Canning's more humane policy;[12] he issued cartoons during the Secession War--to
use the words of Mr. Henry James--"under an evil star;" he aimed poisoned shafts at Louis Philippe;
he scoffed, at first, at the Great Exhibition of 1851, and seriously retarded its progress;
he failed to appreciate Lord Aberdeen's statesmanship, like the rest of his contemporaries,
during the Crimean War; he joked at Turner, and sneered at the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood;
he attacked Bright and Cobden for their attitude during the Chinese War; he denounced Carlyle's
"Latter-day Pamphlets" as mere "barking and froth;" he ridiculed Joseph Hume with a cruel persistence
that called forth a passionate protest from the "Westminster Review" against the scurrilous
attack on one who was "too good" for it, for which Punch handsomely apologised on Hume's death
(March 10th, 1855); and generally, in his own words, "at this early date Mr. Punch in his exuberance
wrote much that he would now hesitate to commit to paper, and for which, if it did appear,
he would certainly be taken severely to task by a hundred correspondents, of whom a majority
would be of the strait-laced order, and the minority would be largely recruited from North
Britain."

But the politician who suffered most from Punch--and perhaps the most undeservedly--was that
most unpopular of a long line of unpopular Home Secretaries, Sir James Graham. He had joined
Peel's Cabinet in 1842, on the fall of Lord Melbourne's Ministry, and nothing that he did could
command the approval of his critics, especially those on Punch. His capital offence was directing
the opening of certain of Mazzini's letters in consequence of the statements made to our Government
by that of Naples, to the effect that plots were being carried on--of which the brilliant and
popular Italian refugee was the centre--to excite an insurrection in Italy. "The British Government,"
reported the House of Commons Committee of Inquiry afterwards appointed, "issued a warrant
to open and detain M. Mazzini's letters. Such information deduced from these letters as appeared
to the British Government calculated to frustrate this attempt was communicated to a foreign
Power."

Thereupon Mr. Duncombe, M.P., upon the complaints of Mazzini, W. J. Linton (the well-known
Chartist, and more distinguished wood-engraver), and others, that their letters had been secretly
opened, charged Sir James Graham with the violation of correspondence (June 14th, 1844), and
though not at first eliciting much information, succeeded in obtaining the appointment of a
Committee, though a "secret" one; and Lord Radnor effected the same object in the Lords. The
result was favourable to the Minister; but the popular feeling roused by it was intense, and
Punch, up in arms at once at this supposed violation of the rights of the subject, fanned the
excitement he shared. He immediately published, on July 6th, the most offensive attack he could
devise. This consisted in the famous "Anti-Graham Envelope" and "Wafers"--the latter extra
strongly gummed.

The former was drawn by John Leech--a sort of burlesque of the Mulready envelope--and was afterwards
appropriately engraved by Mr. W. J. Linton, whose share in the agitation was a considerable
one. The circulation attained by this envelope was very wide, and although I have not ascertained
that many were actually passed through the General Post Office, it certainly brought a flood
of bitter ridicule on the unfortunate Minister. In addition to this, there was published, on
the clever initiation of Henry Mayhew, the sheet of "Anti-Graham Wafers"--an instrument of
diabolical torture for the unhappy Secretary, who already figured as "Paul Pry" in half a hundred
of the more important papers. In this sheet, 10 inches by 7-3/4 inches in size, drawn by H.
G. Hine, there were printed sixteen wafers, in green ink, in the midst of a witty design, in
brown, that bore the devices of a snake in the grass, a cat-o'-nine-tails, a kettle steaming
the fastening of a letter, and other suggestive personalities. These were supposed to be cut
up and used as wafers on envelopes, and that they were so used is probable, in view of their
extreme rarity at the present day. They were issued at twopence the sheet; and their epigrammatic
cuts and accompanying legends were in Punch's best vein.

Punch's example was promptly followed by that class of publisher who lives by trading on the
ideas of others, and in the windows of many booksellers of the commoner class, envelopes in
the shape of padlocks were offered for sale, the motto on them running "Not to be Grahamed."
Punch itself followed up the scent, and gave drawings of "Mercury giving Sir James Graham an
insight into Letters" (with the aid of a steam-kettle), of "The Post Office Peep-Show, a Penny
a Peep," in which foreign sovereigns, on paying their money to Showman Graham, are permitted
to violate the secrecy of British correspondence; while a notice from St. Martin's-le-Grand
informs his Continental clients that "on and after the present month the following alterations
will take place in the opening of letters:"--

  Letters

       Posted at     Opened at

        9 A.M.        10 A.M.
       10 A.M.        11 A.M.
       12 A.M.         2 P.M.
        2 P.M.         4 P.M.
        4 P.M.         6 P.M.

Of course, this was all very unfair and savagely amusing, but much was forgiven for the cleverness
of the hits, and the liberty-loving notions that inspired them.

The "railway mania," which had been developing during these years, had from the first been
viewed with alarm by Punch, who, with his customary level-headedness, foresaw the crash and
the reaction that were soon to follow. And when they came, in 1849, he pointed solemnly to
the truth of his teaching, and to the sadness of the moral, with the picture of "King Hudson
off the Line." Nothing could represent the situation more eloquently or more concisely.

A noteworthy incident occurred in connection with the Greek question of 1850, when the English
fleet threatened to blockade the Piræus. Punch was indignant at this high-handed show of strength
towards the little kingdom, and taking the mean-looking, grovelling British Lion by the ear
(in his cartoon) asks him, "Why don't you hit someone of your own size?" With the exception
of the occasion when he disrespectfully represented the noble beast as stuffed and moth-eaten,
this is the only "big cut" wherein the Lion has been unworthily treated, or on which, in foreign
politics, Punch has failed to back up his own Government.

When Kossuth visited London in 1851, Punch's heart, like that of the rest of England, went
out to the patriot. "It was not Louis Kossuth whom the thousands gazed upon and cheered," wrote
Punch. "It was Hungary--bound and bleeding, but still hopeful, resolute, defying Hungary;"
and it may be observed that for many years Punch sided, for one reason or another, with Austria's
successive adversaries.

It was in the same year that Lord Palmerston first appeared on Punch's scene, and then in his
own selected rôle of "Judicious Bottle-holder." He was represented as officiating thus at the
little affair between "Nick the Bear" and "Young Europe." From that time forward he always
appeared as a sporting character, and rather gained than lost in popular favour by the treatment.
Another début the following year, among the repeated appearances of "Dizzy," Napoleon, Pam,
and Lord John, was that of John Bright. He is shown in Quaker costume, examining the new-born
baby (the new Reform Bill) through an eye-glass, while Lord John, its parent, stands by and
hears the dry verdict that it is "not quite so fine a child as the last." This eye-glass perplexed
John Bright a good deal, because, said he, he had "never worn such a thing in his life." He
did not see that the glass had here, no doubt, not so much reference to him, as to the smallness
of the birth examined by its aid.

Protection was still a subject of debate, but not for long. In 1852 appeared the admirable
cartoon in which Cobden--suddenly come very much to the fore in Punch's pages--is represented
as Queen Eleanor, who advances on Disraeli, a grotesque "Fair Rosamond," with a poison-bowl
of "Free Trade" in one hand and the dagger of "Resignation" in the other. Disraeli accepted
the former, and Punch and the Free Traders rejoiced. But in their triumph they did not spare
the feelings of the convert, whom they had dubbed "The Political Chameleon;" but at least they
admitted the importance of the man, who is no longer sneeringly alluded to as "Benjamin Sidonia,"
no more represented as an ill-bred schoolboy made up of impudence and malice--unprincipled,
vicious, and conceited.

In the following year Punch sounded his first note of warning of the approaching "Eastern Question,"
when in the cartoon of "The Turkey in Danger," the Sick Bird is shown in the powerful hug of
the Russian Bear; and "The Emperor's Cup for 1853" illustrates still further the prescience
of Punch. Nevertheless, as has been said, he could not appreciate a suaviter policy, and in
a cartoon entitled "Not a Nice Business" (p. 271, Vol. XXVI.) Lord Aberdeen, the Premier, is
shown engaged in cleaning the boots of the Tsar.

How the Crimean War was followed by Punch in a magnificent series of pictures, chiefly from
the hand of Sir John Tenniel, as well as in that culminating effort of Leech's, "General Février,"
there is no need here to explain. But during the peace negotiations--which were delayed through
the Russians firing on a truce-party, called "The Massacre of Hango"--the representation was
unjustly made by Punch that the King of Prussia was a confirmed toper, and the charge was offensively
maintained by pen and pencil. This so angered the King that none of the English newspaper correspondents
(one of whom he supposed to be the original perpetrator of the libel) was after that allowed
within the precincts of the palace, until at last Mr. T. Harrington Wilson, one of Punch's
draughtsmen, was admitted on behalf of the "Illustrated London News."

No sooner was the Crimean War at an end, than the reprisals which developed into the Chinese
War involved this country in an expense of four millions. In spite of the importance and gravity
of the undertaking, Punch vigorously supported Lord Palmerston in his campaign, and mockingly
showed "The Great Warriors Dah-Bee and Cob-Den" vainly trying to overturn his Government. He
made good sport of the Celestials, as a matter of course, but his mortification was extreme
on learning that the incidental outlay would delay the hoped-for repeal of the paper duty.
He found a small outlet for his feelings in the cartoon representing a Chinese mandarin as
"The New Paper-weight" (p. 20, Vol. XXXIX.), but in the end was entirely conciliated by the
terms of the Chinese Convention, and the payment of a handsome indemnity--the subject of his
first cartoon in 1861 being "A Cheer for Elgin."

Italy's successful struggle for independence received great attention and sympathy from Punch--the
greater, no doubt, since the "Papal Aggression" had taught him to look askance at the Vatican;
but he regarded with extreme and well-justified scepticism the genuineness of Louis Napoleon's
alleged disinterestedness in the interests of peace. He is ironically shown (October 13th,
1860) as "The Friend in Need" advising the Pope, "There, cut away quietly and leave me your
keys. Keep up your spirits, and I'll look after your little temporal matters." Garibaldi and
Victor Emmanuel were regarded by Punch with the greatest favour (just as the latter was said
to be regarded privately by the Pope), and United Italy was enthusiastically hailed by him
(March, 1861) as "The Latest Arrival" at the European Evening Party conjointly presided over
by John Bull and Britannia.

From first to last Punch has always been an Imperialist--Imperial Defence being warmly taken
up at periodical intervals, and Imperial Federation during these latter years adopted as one
of the planks of his Punch-and-Judy platform. Imperial Defence as a cry and a scare, begun
in 1848 on the action of the Prince de Joinville, was continued in 1860 (cartoon, August 4th),
when a large sum was spent upon arsenals and dockyards--to some extent, no doubt, in view of
Napoleon's double-dealing in the matter of Nice and Savoy. "Ribs of steel are our ships, Engineers
are our men," he sings, under the new order of things in naval construction--

          "We're steady, boys, steady,
          But always unready;
  We've just let the French get before us again."

The American War of Secession; the throne of Greece put up to auction; Poland in chains, defying
the Russian Bear; the ghost of Charles I. warning the King of Prussia, by the block to which
he points, of the punishment that awaits the would-be despot; Napoleon crushing the prostrate
figure of France; the wars between "father-in-law Denmark," Germany, and Austria, and between
the latter two (as Robbers in the Wood); Reform; Irish Church Disestablishment; "Dizzy" as
the Premier-Peri entering the gates of Paradise, or, bound to the Ixion's wheel of "Minority,"
hurled forth by Hercules-Bright, with the severe approval of Juno-Britannia and Jupiter-Gladstone;
the Franco-Prussian War; the Royal marriages; the occupation of Egypt; and the creation of
the "Empress of India;"--all the subject-matter, indeed, of home and foreign politics, and
of general public interest, have been touched upon by Punch as they occurred, lightly, but
often probed à fond. His attitude seldom caused much surprise, for his opinions and views could
generally be foretold. It was the manner in which they were put forth that carried weight and
influence; they were the nation's ideas

                      "... to advantage dressed,
  What oft was thought, but ne'er so well expressed."

The student of the times, if he would know how public affairs struck the public mind during
that period, can assuredly find no truer, no more accurate indication than is offered by the
perusal of Punch's pages.

FOOTNOTES:

[10] "Daily Chronicle," August 26th, 1892.

[11] This, with the Pharaoh pro-Jewish picture at the time of the Russian persecutions, is
said to be the only cartoon founded on a strictly Biblical or Scriptural subject ever published
in Punch.

[12] See p. 108, Vol. XXXIII.:--

  "And woe to the hell-hounds! Right well may they fear
    A vengeance--ay, darker than war ever knew;
  When Englishmen, charging, exchange the old cheer
    For, 'REMEMBER THE WOMEN AND BABES WHOM THEY SLEW!'

         *       *       *       *       *

  "And terrified India shall tell to all time,
    How Englishmen paid her for murder and lust;
  And stained not their fame with one spot of the crime
    That brought the rich splendour of Delhi to dust."

The man who glances at Punch's current number and throws it aside can have but little appreciation
of the influence of the paper, not only in matters political, but in social subjects of every
kind. That the Baron de Book-Worms can make or mar the success of a new book, as completely
as the "Times," "Athenæum," or "Spectator," has been testified to by Mr. Hall Caine and others;
and in some quarters at least Punch's bâton-strokes are as effective as ever, and recall the
times when he could, and did, drive a semi-public man into obscurity, which, but for the fame
of his onslaught, would have been absolute oblivion.

But it is in dress, in fashion, and in manners that Punch has gained, if anything, in weight
and influence. In such subjects, treated as "charivarieties," as Mr. Arthur Sykes has called
them, he has always been supreme, and fulfils an unquestioned destiny. John Leech determined
that there should be no Bloomerism in the land, and there was none--only, by the charm of his
drawings, he came very near making it popular, and converting British young womanhood to Turkish
trousers. Mr. du Maurier thought that it would look pretty if every little lady in the land
were to wear black stockings; and every little lady did: as unfalteringly as when Miss Kate
Greenaway imposed upon them smocks and poke-bonnets, or when Mrs. Hodgson Burnett clad mothers'
darlings in black velvet Fauntleroy suits, with bright-coloured sashes wound round their middles.
As the volumes are examined, the reader becomes aware of the enduring value of Punch as a History
of Costume in the Victorian Era. Even men's dress is noted with minute truthfulness--the violently
variegated shirts of 1845; the Joinville ties, with their great fringed ends, out of which
Thackeray made such capital in 1847; the pin-less cravats and cutaway coats of 1848; the ivory-handled
canes of 1850, for sucking purposes--the fashion which came round thirty years later with the
advance of the "crutch and toothpick brigade;" the big bows and short sticks of 1852; the frock-coats
and weeping whiskers of 1853, with the corresponding inability to pronounce the "r" otherwise
than as a "w," or to converse but with a languid, used-up drawl; the smaller ties and growing
collars, when a wasting youth complains that "She is lost to him for ever" (she, the laundress!);
the schoolboy's Spanish hat of 1860, that was soon developed into the "pork-pie," and was to
be adopted generally for country wear with baggy knickerbockers; the full-blown Dundreary of
1861, with long weeping whiskers, long coat, long drawl, and short wits; with the sudden change
for the better in the following year. All this is to be found clearly recorded year by year,
season by season, with all the peculiarities of "form;" of umbrella and umbrella-carrying;
of dancing, energetic and invertebrate; of handshaking, sensible and high-level (which was
invented, of course, by the ballroom girl who was holding up her train in the dance); of hirsute
adornment and æsthetic craze--every shade of fashion is followed in its true development and
in its wane--down to the recent phase of 1893 and 1894, when the swell lets out his collar
for an advertisement hoarding, or, safe in the perfection of its starching, marches quietly
across the desert while fierce Orientals turn the edges of their swords in vain across his
linen-shielded neck.

And the ladies! The coal-scuttle bonnet and the incipient crinoline of 1845; the growing crinolines
of 1851, larger in 1860, largest of all in 1864; the hair in bands or side-curls of 1852, and
in nets in 1862; the bonnets worn almost off the head in 1853, more so in 1854, until Leech
drew a picture of two ladies walking out, with footmen carrying their headgear behind them;
the "spoon-shaped bonnet" of 1860--"the latest Parisian folly," which the street-boys mistake
for "a dustman's 'at;" the archery of 1862, the pork-pie hat, the croquet, the tennis, the
golf--every sport, every habit and custom, every change of dress, down to the minutest detail--all
is recorded with faithfulness and humour, first by Leech's pencil, and then, in chief measure,
by Mr. du Maurier's.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is curious in turning over Punch's volumes to see how on occasion he could use his power
of prophecy with an accuracy that spoke well for the common-sense, sometimes even the statesmanship,
to be found among the Staff. "There is but one Punch, and he is his own prophet." It is rather
as a social reformer than as a politician that he has exerted his gift, though an example of
the latter class of foresight may be pointed to in the cartoon of Sir John Tenniel of April
7th, 1860. This was entitled "A Glimpse of the Future: A Probable and Large Importation of
Foreign Rags," in which King Bomba of Naples, the Emperor Louis Napoleon, and the Pope were
shown landing on British shores in very sorry plight. And in due time England was to see--at
least, as far as the two monarchs were concerned--the realisation of the oracular couplet combined:--

  "The time will come when discontent
  Will overthrow your Government."

Then the number of inventions and innovations forestalled by Punch's pen are many. In December,
1848, much is made of a proposed "opera telakouphanon"--a forecast of the telephone, phonograph,
and theatrophone combined:--

     "It would be in the power of Mr. Lumley," says Punch, "during the
     aproaching holiday time to bring home the Opera to every lady's
     drawing-room in London. Let him cause to be constructed at the back
     of Her Majesty's Theatre an apparatus on the principle of the Ear
     of DIONYSIUS.... Next, having obtained an Act of Parliament for the
     purpose, let him lay down after the manner of pipes a number of
     Telakouphona connected--the reader will excuse the apparent
     vulgarism--with this ear, and extended to the dwellings of all such
     as may be willing to pay for the accommodation. In this way our
     domestic establishments might be served with the liquid notes of
     JENNY LIND as easily as they are with soft water, and could be
     supplied with music as readily as they can with gas. Then at a
     soirée or evening party, if a desire were expressed for a little
     music, we should only have to turn on the Sonnambula or the
     Puritani, as the case might be," etc.

--a thirty years' prophecy. The following year he represented a lady listening to music by
telegraph; and the kinetoscope is only now waiting to fulfil Mr. du Maurier's forecast of many
years ago. If Mr. Edison has not yet done quite all that Mr. Punch foretold, is not that rather
Mr. Edison's than Punch's fault?

In an unhappy moment in 1847 Punch proposed the use of umbrellas and house-fronts for advertising
purposes, and the hint was promptly taken. In the previous year he foretold the use of the
Thames Tunnel as a railway conduit; and his sketch of a zebra harnessed to a carriage in the
streets of London was realised forty years later. The great "Missing Word Competition" of 1892
was forestalled by Punch by four-and-thirty years (p. 53, Vol. XXXV., August 7th, 1858). Leech's
"Mistress of the Hounds," too--how fantastic the idea was thought in those days, and laughed
at accordingly!--has since become a hard, astraddle, uncompromising fact; and the lady's safety
riding-skirt, that attached itself to the saddle when the lady lost her seat, anticipated by
thirty years the patent for a similar contrivance taken out in 1884. Indeed, Punch's picture
of November, 1854, was put in as evidence before Mr. Justice Wright in April, 1893, when an
action between two sartorial artists turned upon the point of anteriority, and the picture
won the case.

Common-sense, and shrewdness of observation and judgment, which are at the root of amateur
prophecy, brought as much honour to Punch as ever Old Moore obtained through one of his lucky
flukes. In December, 1893, the Prince of Wales opened the Hugh Myddleton Board School, the
finest in London, which had been erected on the site of the old Clerkenwell prison; and on
the invitation card to the ceremony appeared a reproduction of the Punch picture of May, 1847,
which accompanied an altercation between "School and Prison, who've lately risen As opposition
teachers." This was published nearly a quarter of a century before Mr. Forster's Education
Act, and concludes with the prophecy curiously fulfilled in the case of this particular institution.
To this picture, in which the county gaol, untenanted, looks scowlingly at the crowded school,
the Prince feelingly referred when he spoke of the scepticism with which the statement was
regarded, that the institution of "free" schools would shut the prisons up. But a volume might
be filled with instances of the occasions on which Punch has seen with his eyes, and thought
with the front of his brain--how his demands for necessary innovations (such, for example,
as fever carriages in 1861) were quickly acted upon, and how his serious mood has enforced
the respect which mere geniality might have failed to secure.

He is not, of course, entitled to invariable congratulation for his attitude towards art; but
he has suffered as well as acted ill. When he derided the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, and joined
in the storm of ridicule that swirled round the heads of Rossetti and his devoted and courageous
friends, he doubtless acted within his rôle; but he utterly failed to see below the surface
of the apparent affectation of the artists, and all he had to say of Sir John Millais' "Vale
of Rest," in the lines descriptive of the year 1859, was

     "Year Mr. Millais came out with those terrible nuns in the
     graveyard."

In the following year, however, Mr. Eastlake, afterwards of the National Gallery, made his
mark in the paper as "Jack Easel," and a more intelligent view of art prevailed.

But neither has Art, as personified by the Royal Academy, recognised Punch, save by a couple
of seats at the annual banquet. It is true that several of its members have drawn for it--Sir
Frederic Leighton, Sir John Millais, Sir John Gilbert, Mr. Briton Riviere, Mr. Stacey Marks,
Mr. G. A. Storey, and Fred Walker. But Punch's art has gone unnoticed, otherwise than by a
square yard or two of wall space in the Black-and-White room at the annual exhibition. While
the Academy has canonised many members whose names half a century later are forgotten, or are
remembered only to be called up with a smile or a shrug, it has persistently ignored those
who have employed the pencil instead of the brush, or have used ink instead of misusing paint.
But it is unnecessary to pursue the subject farther; that the names of Keene, Leech, and Tenniel
are not on the roll of the Academy is surely far more to the discredit of the institution than
of the artists themselves, who presumably, from the Academic point of view, are "no artists."
As Mr. du Maurier has pointed out, Punch's artists will have their revenge: "If the illustrator
confine himself to his own particular branch, he must not hope for any very high place in the
hierarchy of art. The great prizes are not for him! No doubt it will be all the same a hundred
years hence--but for this: if he has done his work well, he has faithfully represented the
life of his time, he has perpetuated what he has seen with his own bodily eyes; and for that
reason alone his unpretending little sketches may, perhaps, have more interest for those who
come across them in another hundred years than many an ambitious historical or classical canvas
that has cost its painter infinite labour, imagination, and research, and won for him in his
own time the highest rewards in money, fame, and Academical distinction. For genius alone can
keep such fancy-work as this alive, and the so-called genius of to-day may be the scapegoat
of to-morrow."

