GRIMM'S FAIRY STORIES

Colored Illustrations by JOHN B. GRUELLE

Pen and Ink Sketches by R. EMMETT OWEN

1922

CONTENTS

THE GOOSE-GIRL

THE LITTLE BROTHER AND SISTER

HANSEL AND GRETHEL

OH, IF I COULD BUT SHIVER!

THE LITTLE BROTHER AND SISTER

There was once a little brother who took his Sister by the hand, and said, "Since our own dear
mother's death we have not had one happy hour; our stepmother beats us every day, and, when
we come near her, kicks us away with her foot. Come, let us wander forth into the wide world."
So all day long they travelled over meadows, fields, and stony roads. By the evening they came
into a large forest, and laid themselves down in a hollow tree, and went to sleep. When they
awoke the next morning, the sun had already risen high in the heavens, and its beams made the
tree so hot that the little boy said to his sister, "I am so very thirsty, that if I knew where
there was a brook, I would go and drink. Ah! I think I hear one running;" and so saying, he
got up, and taking his Sister's hand they went to look for the brook.

The wicked stepmother, however, was a witch, and had witnessed the departure of the two children:
so, sneaking after them secretly, as is the habit of witches, she had enchanted all the springs
in the forest.

Presently they found a brook, which ran trippingly over the pebbles, and the Brother would
have drunk out of it, but the Sister heard how it said as it ran along, "Who drinks of me will
become a tiger!" So the Sister exclaimed, "I pray you, Brother, drink not, or you will become
a tiger, and tear me to pieces!" So the Brother did not drink, although his thirst was very
great, and he said, "I will wait till the next brook." As they came to the second, the Sister
heard it say, "Who drinks of me becomes a wolf!" The Sister ran up crying, "Brother, do not,
pray do not drink, or you will become a wolf and eat me up!" Then the Brother did not drink,
saying, "I will wait until we come to the next spring, but then I must drink, you may say what
you will; my thirst is much too great." Just as they reached the third brook, the Sister heard
the voice saying, "Who drinks of me will become a fawn--who drinks of me will become a fawn!"
So the Sister said, "Oh, my Brother do not drink, or you will be changed into a fawn, and run
away from me!" But he had already kneeled down, and he drank of the water, and, as the first
drops passed his lips, his shape took that of a fawn.

At first the Sister wept over her little, changed Brother, and he wept too, and knelt by her,
very sorrowful; but at last the maiden said, "Be still, dear little fawn, and I will never
forsake you!" and, taking off her golden garter, she placed it around his neck, and, weaving
rushes, made a girdle to lead him with. This she tied to him, and taking the other end in her
hand, she led him away, and they travelled deeper and deeper into the forest. After they had
gone a long distance they came to a little hut, and the maiden, peeping in, found it empty,
and thought, "Here we can stay and dwell." Then she looked for leaves and moss to make a soft
couch for the Fawn, and every morning she went out and collected roots and berries and nuts
for herself, and tender grass for the Fawn. In the evening when the Sister was tired, and had
said her prayers, she laid her head upon the back of the Fawn, which served for a pillow, on
which she slept soundly. Had but the Brother regained his own proper form, their lives would
have been happy indeed.

Thus they dwelt in this wilderness, and some time had elapsed when it happened that the King
of the country had a great hunt in the forest; and now sounded through the trees the blowing
of horns, the barking of dogs, and the lusty cry of the hunters, so that the little Fawn heard
them, and wanted very much to join in. "Ah!" said he to his Sister, "let me go to the hunt,
I cannot restrain myself any longer;" and he begged so hard that at last she consented. "But,"
she told him, "return again in the evening, for I shall shut my door against the wild huntsmen,
and, that I may know you, do you knock, and say, 'Sister, dear, let me in,' and if you do not
speak I shall not open the door."

As soon as she had said this, the little Fawn sprang off quite glad and merry in the fresh
breeze. The King and his huntsmen perceived the beautiful animal, and pursued him; but they
could not catch him, and when they thought they certainly had him, he sprang away over the
bushes, and got out of sight. Just as it was getting dark, he ran up to the hut, and, knocking,
said, "Sister mine, let me in." Then she unfastened the little door, and he went in, and rested
all night long upon his soft couch. The next morning the hunt was commenced again, and as soon
as the little Fawn heard the horns and the tally-ho of the sportsmen he could not rest, and
said, "Sister, dear, open the door; I must be off." The Sister opened it, saying, "Return at
evening, mind, and say the words as before." When the King and his huntsmen saw him again,
the Fawn with the golden necklace, they followed him, close, but he was too nimble and quick
for them. The whole day long they kept up with him, but towards evening the huntsmen made a
circle around him, and one wounded him slightly in the hinder foot, so that he could run but
slowly. Then one of them slipped after him to the little hut, and heard him say, "Sister, dear,
open the door," and saw that the door was opened and immediately shut behind him. The huntsman,
having observed all this, went and told the King what he had seen and heard, and he said, "On
the morrow I will pursue him once again."

The Sister, however, was terribly afraid when she saw that her Fawn was wounded, and, washing
off the blood, she put herbs upon the foot, and said, "Go and rest upon your bed, dear Fawn,
that your wound may heal." It was so slight, that the next morning he felt nothing of it, and
when he heard the hunting cries outside, he exclaimed, "I cannot stop away--I must be there,
and none shall catch me so easily again!" The Sister wept very much and told him, "Soon will
they kill you, and I shall be here alone in this forest, forsaken by all the world: I cannot
let you go."

"I shall die here in vexation," answered the Fawn, "if you do not, for when I hear the horn,
I think I shall jump out of my skin." The Sister, finding she could not prevent him, opened
the door, with a heavy heart, and the Fawn jumped out, quite delighted, into the forest. As
soon as the King perceived him, he said to his huntsmen, "Follow him all day long till the
evening, but let no one do him any harm." Then when the sun had set, the King asked his huntsman
to show him the hut; and as they came to it he knocked at the door and said, "Let me in, dear
Sister." Upon this the door opened, and, stepping in, the King saw a maiden more beautiful
than he had ever beheld before. She was frightened when she saw not her Fawn, but a man enter,
who had a golden crown upon his head. But the King, looking at her with a kindly glance, held
out to her his hand, saying, "Will you go with me to my castle, and be my dear wife?" "Oh,
yes," replied the maiden; "but the Fawn must go too: him I will never forsake." The King replied,
"He shall remain with you as long as you live, and shall never want."

The King took the beautiful maiden upon his horse, and rode to his castle, where the wedding
was celebrated with great splendor and she became Queen, and they lived together a long time;
while the Fawn was taken care of and played about the castle garden.

The wicked stepmother, however, on whose account the children had wandered forth into the world,
had supposed that long ago the Sister had been torn into pieces by the wild beasts, and the
little Brother in his Fawn's shape hunted to death by the hunters. As soon, therefore, as she
heard how happy they had become, and how everything prospered with them, envy and jealousy
were aroused in her wicked heart, and left her no peace; and she was always thinking in what
way she could bring misfortune upon them.

Her own daughter, who was as ugly as night, and had but one eye, for which she was continually
reproached, said, "The luck of being a Queen has never happened to me." "Be quiet, now," replied
the old woman, "and make yourself contented: when the time comes I will help and assist you."
As soon, then, as the time came when the Queen gave birth to a beautiful little boy, which
happened when the King was out hunting, the old witch took the form of a chambermaid, and got
into the room where the Queen was lying, and said to her, "The bath is ready, which will restore
you and give you fresh strength; be quick before it gets cold." Her daughter being at hand,
they carried the weak Queen between them into the room, and laid her in the bath, and then,
shutting the door, they ran off; but first they made up an immense fire in the stove, which
must soon suffocate the poor young Queen.

When this was done, the old woman took her daughter, and, putting a cap upon her head, laid
her in the bed in the Queen's place. She gave her, too, the form and appearance of the real
Queen, as far as she was able; but she could not restore the lost eye, and, so that the King
might not notice it, she turned her upon that side where there was no eye.

When midnight came, and every one was asleep, the nurse, who sat by herself, wide awake, near
the cradle, in the nursery, saw the door open and the true Queen come in. She took the child
in her arms, and rocked it a while, and then, shaking up its pillow, laid it down in its cradle,
and covered it over again. She did not forget the Fawn, either, but going to the corner where
he was, stroked his head, and then went silently out of the door. The nurse asked in the morning
of the guards if any one had passed into the castle during the night; but they answered, "No,
we have not seen anybody." For many nights afterwards she came constantly, but never spoke
a word; and the nurse saw her always, but she would not trust herself to speak about it to any one.

When some time had passed away, the Queen one night began to speak, and said--

  "How fares my child! how fares my fawn?
  Twice more will I come, but never again."

The nurse made no reply; but, when she had disappeared, went to the
King, and told him.
  Once more will I come, but never again."

And she nursed the child, as she usually did, and then disappeared. The King dared not speak;
but he watched the following night, and this time she said--

  "How fares my child! how fares my fawn?
  This time have I come, but never again."

At these words the King could hold back no longer, but, springing up, cried, "You can be no
other than my dear wife!" Then she answered, "Yes, I am your dear wife;" and at that moment
her life was restored by God's mercy, and she was again as beautiful and charming as ever.
She told the King the fraud which the witch and her daughter had practised upon him, and he
had them both tried, and sentence was pronounced against them. The little Fawn was disenchanted,
and received once more his human form; and the Brother and Sister lived happily together to
the end of their days.

OH, IF I COULD BUT SHIVER!

A father had two sons, the elder of whom was forward and clever enough to do almost anything;
but the younger was so stupid that he could learn nothing, and when the people saw him they
said, "Will thy father still keep thee as a burden to him?" So, if anything was to be done,
the elder had at all times to do it; but sometimes the father would call him to fetch something
in the dead of night, and perhaps the way led through the churchyard or by a dismal place,
and then he used to answer, "No, father, I cannot go there, I am afraid," for he was a coward.
Or sometimes of an evening, tales were told by the fireside which made one shudder, and the
listeners exclaimed, "Oh, it makes us shiver!" In a corner, meanwhile, sat the younger son,
listening, but he could not comprehend what was said, and he thought, "They say continually,
'Oh, it makes us shiver, it makes us shiver!' but perhaps shivering is an art which I cannot
understand." One day, however, his father said to him, "Do you hear, you there in the corner?
You are growing stout and big; you must learn some trade to get your living by. Do you see
how your brother works? But as for you, you are not worth malt and hops."

"Ah, father," answered he, "I would willingly learn something. When shall I begin? I want to
know what shivering means, for of that I can understand nothing."

The elder brother laughed when he heard this speech, and thought to himself, "Ah! my brother
is such a simpleton that he cannot earn his own living. He who would make a good hedge must
learn betimes to bend." But the father sighed and said, "What shivering means you may learn
soon enough, but you will never get your bread by that."

Soon after the parish sexton came in for a gossip, so the father told him his troubles, and
how that his younger son was such a simpleton that he knew nothing and could learn nothing.
"Just fancy, when I asked him how he intended to earn his bread, he desired to learn what shivering
meant!" "Oh, if that be all," answered the sexton, "he can learn that soon enough with me;
just send him to my place, and I will soon teach him." The father was very glad, because he
thought that it would do the boy good; so the sexton took him home to ring the bells. About
two days afterward he called him up at midnight to go into the church-tower to toll the bell.
"You shall soon learn what shivering means," thought the sexton, and getting up he went out
too. As soon as the boy reached the belfry, and turned himself round to seize the rope, he
saw upon the stairs, near the sounding-hole, a white figure. "Who's there?" he called out;
but the figure gave no answer, and neither stirred nor spoke. "Answer," said the boy, "or make
haste off; you have no business here to-night." But the sexton did not stir, so that the boy
might think it was a ghost.

The boy called out a second time, "What are you doing here? Speak, if you are an honest fellow,
or else I will throw you downstairs."

The sexton said to himself, "That is not a bad thought"; but he remained quiet as if he were
a stone. Then the boy called out for the third time, but it produced no effect; so, making
a spring, he threw the ghost down the stairs, so that it rolled ten steps, and then lay motionless
in a corner. Thereupon he rang the bell, and then going home, he went to bed without saying
a word, and fell fast asleep. The sexton's wife waited some time for her husband, but he did
not come; so at last she became anxious, woke the boy, and asked him if he knew where her husband
was, who had gone before him to the belfry.

"No," answered the boy; "but there was someone standing on the steps who would not give any
answer, nor go away, so I took him for a thief and threw him downstairs. Go now and see where
he is; perhaps it may be he, but I should be sorry for it." The wife ran off and found her
husband lying in a corner, groaning, with one of his ribs broken.

She took him up and ran with loud outcries to the boy's father, and said to him, "Your son
has brought a great misfortune on us; he has thrown my husband down and broken his bones. Take
the good-for-nothing fellow from our house."

The terrified father came in haste and scolded the boy. "What do these wicked tricks mean?
They will only bring misfortune upon you."

"Father," answered the lad, "hear me! I am quite innocent. He stood there at midnight like
one who had done some evil; I did not know who it was, and cried three times, 'Speak, or be off!'"

"Ah!" said the father, "everything goes badly with you. Get out of my sight; I do not wish
to see you again!"

"Yes, father, willingly; wait but one day, then I will go out and learn what shivering means,
that I may at least understand one business which will support me."

"Learn what you will," replied the father, "all is the same to me. Here are fifty dollars;
go forth with them into the world, and tell no man whence you came, or who your father is,
for I am ashamed of you."

"Yes, father, as you wish; but if you desire nothing else, I shall esteem that very lightly."

As soon as day broke the youth put his fifty dollars into a knapsack and went out upon the
high road, saying continually, "Oh, if I could but shiver!"

Presently a man came up, who heard the boy talking to himself; and, as they we're just passing
the place where the gallows stood, the man said, "Do you see? There is the tree where seven
fellows have married the hempen maid, and now swing to and fro. Sit yourself down there and
wait till midnight, and then you will know what it is to shiver!"

"Oh, if that be all," answered the boy, "I can very easily do that! But if I learn so speedily
what shivering is, then you shall have my fifty dollars if you come again in the morning."
So his compassion was excited, and, contriving a ladder, he mounted, and, unloosening them
one after another, he brought down all seven. Then he poked and blew the fire, and set them
round that they might warm themselves; but as they sat still without moving their clothing
caught fire. So he said, "Take care of yourselves, or I will hang all of you up again." The
dead heard not, and silently allowed their rags to burn. This made him so angry that he said,
"If you will not hear I cannot help you; but I will not burn with you." So he hung them up
again in a row, and sitting down by the fire he soon went to sleep. The next morning the man
came, expecting to receive his fifty dollars, and asked, "Now do you know what shivering means?"
"No," he answered; "how should I know? Those fellows up there have not opened their mouths,
and were so stupid that they let the old rags on their bodies be burnt." Then the man saw that
he should not carry away the fifty dollars that day, so he went away saying, "I never met with
such a one before."

The boy also went on his way and began again to say, "Ah, if only I could but shiver--if I
could but shiver!" A wagoner walking behind overheard him, and asked, "Who are you?"

"I do not know," answered the boy.

The wagoner asked again, "What do you here?"

"I know not."

"Who is your father?"

"I dare not say."

"What is it you are continually grumbling about?"

"Oh," replied the youth, "I wish to learn what shivering is, but nobody can teach me."

"Cease your silly talk," said the wagoner. "Come with me, and I will see what I can do for
you." So the boy went with the wagoner, and about evening time they arrived at an inn where
they put up for the night, and while they were going into the parlor he said, quite aloud,
"Oh, if I could but shiver--if I could but shiver!" The host overheard him and said, laughingly,
"Oh, if that is all you wish, you shall soon have the opportunity." "Hold your tongue," said
his wife; "so many imprudent people have already lost their lives, it were a shame and sin
to such beautiful eyes that they should not see the light again." But the youth said, "If it
were ever so difficult I would at once learn it; for that reason I left home"; and he never
let the host have any peace till he told him that not far off stood an enchanted castle, where
any one might soon learn to shiver if he would watch there three nights. The King had promised
his daughter in marriage to whoever would venture, and she was the most beautiful young lady
that the sun ever shone upon. And he further told him that inside the castle there was an immense
amount of treasure guarded by evil spirits; enough to make any one free, and turn a poor man
into a very rich one. Many, he added, had already ventured into this castle, but no one had
ever come out again.

The next morning this youth went to the King, and said, "If you will allow me, I wish to watch
three nights in the enchanted castle." The King looked at him, and because his appearance pleased
him, he said, "You may make three requests, but they must be inanimate things you ask for,
and such as you can take with you into the castle." So the youth asked for a fire, a lathe,
and a cutting-board.

The King let him take these things by day into the castle, and when it was evening the youth
went in and made himself a bright fire in one of the rooms, and, placing his cutting-board
and knife near it, he sat down upon his lathe. "Ah, if I could but shiver!" said he. "But even
here I shall never learn." At midnight he got up to stir the fire, and, as he poked it, there
shrieked suddenly in one corner, "Miau, miau! how cold I am!" "You simpleton!" he exclaimed,
"what are you shrieking for? If you are so cold come and sit down by the fire and warm yourself!"
As he was speaking, two great black cats sprang up to him with an immense jump and sat down
one on each side, looking at him quite wildly with their fiery eyes. When they had warmed themselves
for a little while they said, "Comrade, shall we have a game of cards?" "Certainly," he replied;
"but let me see your paws first." So they stretched out their claws, and he said, "Ah, what
long nails you have got; wait a bit, I must cut them off first"; and so saying he caught them
up by the necks, and put them on his board and screwed their feet down. "Since I have seen
what you are about I have lost my relish for a game at cards," said he; and, instantly killing
them, threw them away into the water. But no sooner had he quieted these two and thought of
sitting down again by his fire, than there came out of every hole and corner black cats and
black dogs with glowing chains, continually more and more, so that he could not hide himself.
They howled fearfully, and jumped upon his fire, and scattered it about as if they would extinguish
it. So looking around he saw a great bed in one corner, in which he lay down; but no sooner
had he closed his eyes, than the bed began to move of itself and travelled all round the castle.
"Just so," said he, "only better still"; whereupon the bed galloped away as if six horses pulled
it up and down steps and stairs, until at last, all at once, it overset, bottom upward, and
lay upon him like a mountain; but up he got, threw pillows and mattresses into the air, and
saying, "Now he who wishes may travel," laid himself down by the fire and slept till day broke.
In the morning the King came, and, seeing the youth lying on the ground, he thought that the
spectres had killed him, and that he was dead; so he said, "It is a great misfortune that the
finest men are thus killed"; but the youth, hearing this, sprang up, saying, "It is not come
to that with me yet!" The King was much astonished, but very glad, and asked him how he had
fared. "Very well," replied he; "as one night has passed, so also may the other two." Soon
after he met his landlord, who opened his eyes when he saw him. "I never thought to see you
alive again," said he; "have you learnt now what shivering means?" "No," said he; "it is all
of no use. Oh, if any one would but tell me!"

The second night he went up again into the castle, and sitting down by the fire, began his
old song, "If I could but shiver!" When midnight came, a ringing and a rattling noise was heard,
gentle at first and louder and louder by degrees; then there was a pause, and presently with
a loud outcry half a man's body came down the chimney and fell at his feet. "Holloa," he exclaimed;
"only half a man answered that ringing; that is too little." Then the ringing began afresh,
and a roaring and howling was heard, and the other half fell down. "Wait a bit," said he; "I
will poke up the fire first." When he had done so and looked round again, the two pieces had
joined themselves together, and an ugly man was sitting in his place. "I did not bargain for
that," said the youth; "the bench is mine." The man tried to push him away, but the youth would
not let him, and giving him a violent push sat himself down in his old place. Presently more
men fell down the chimney, one after the other, who brought nine thigh-bones and two skulls,
which they set up, and then they began to play at ninepins. At this the youth wished also to
play, so he asked whether he might join them. "Yes, if you have money!" "Money enough," he
replied, "but your balls are not quite round"; so saying he took up the skulls, and, placing
them on his lathe, turned them round. "Ah, now you will roll well," said he. "Holloa! now we
will go at it merrily." So he played with them and lost some of his money, but as it struck
twelve everything disappeared. Then he lay down and went to sleep quietly. On the morrow the
King came for news, and asked him how he had fared this time. "I have been playing ninepins,"
he replied, "and lost a couple of dollars." "Have you not shivered?" "No! I have enjoyed myself
very much; but I wish some one would teach me that!"

On the third night he sat down again on his bench, saying in great vexation, "Oh, if I could
only shiver!" When it grew late, six tall men came in bearing a coffin between them. "Ah, ah,"
said he, "that is surely my little cousin, who died two days ago"; and beckoning with his finger
he called, "Come, little cousin, come!" The men set down the coffin upon the ground, and he
went up and took off the lid, and there lay a dead man within, and as he felt the face it was
as cold as ice. "Stop a moment," he cried; "I will warm it in a trice"; and stepping up to
the fire he warmed his hands, and then laid them upon the face, but it remained cold. So he
took up the body, and sitting down by the fire, he laid it on his lap and rubbed the arms that
the blood might circulate again. But all this was of no avail, and he thought to himself if
two lie in a bed together they warm each other; so he put the body in the bed, and covering
it up laid himself down by its side. After a little while the body became warm and began to
move about. "See, my cousin," he exclaimed, "have I not warmed you?" But the body got up and
exclaimed, "Now I will strangle you." "Is that your gratitude?" cried the youth. "Then you
shall get into your coffin again"; and taking it up, he threw the body in, and made the lid
fast. Then the six men came in again and bore it away. "Oh, deary me," said he, "I shall never
be able to shiver if I stop here all my lifetime!" At these words in came a man who was taller
than all the others, and looked more horrible; but he was very old and had a long white beard.
"Oh, you wretch," he exclaimed, "now thou shalt learn what shivering means, for thou shalt die!"

"Not so quick," answered the youth; "if I die I must be brought to it first."

"I will quickly seize you," replied the ugly one.

"Softly, softly; be not too sure. I am as strong as you, and perhaps stronger."

"That we will see," said the ugly man. "If you are stronger than I, I will let you go; come,
let us try"; and he led him away through a dark passage to a smith's forge. Then taking up
an axe he cut through the anvil at one blow down to the ground. "I can do that still better,"
said the youth, and went to another anvil, while the old man followed him and watched him,
with his long beard hanging down. Then the youth took up an axe, and, splitting the anvil at
one blow, wedged the old man's beard in it. "Now I have you; now death comes upon you!" and
taking up an iron bar he beat the old man until he groaned, and begged him to stop, and he
would give him great riches. So the youth drew out the axe, and let him loose. Then the old
man, leading him back into the castle, showed him three chests full of gold in a cellar. "One
share of this," said he, "belongs to the poor, another to the King, and a third to yourself."
And just then it struck twelve and the old man vanished, leaving the youth in the dark. "I
must help myself out here," said he, and groping round he found his way back to his room and
went to sleep by the fire.

The next morning the King came and inquired, "Now have you learnt to shiver?" "No," replied
the youth; "what is it? My dead cousin came here, and a bearded man, who showed me a lot of
gold down below; but what shivering means, no one has showed me!" Then the King said, "You
have won the castle, and shall marry my daughter."

"That is all very fine," replied the youth, "but still I don't know what shivering means."

So the gold was fetched, and the wedding was celebrated, but the young Prince (for the youth
was a Prince now), notwithstanding his love for his bride, and his great contentment, was still
continually crying, "If I could but shiver! if I could but shiver!" At last it fell out in
this wise: one of the chambermaids said to the Princess, "Let me bring in my aid to teach him
what shivering is." So she went to the brook which flowed through the garden, and drew up a
pail of water full of little fish; and, at night, when the young Prince was asleep, his bride
drew away the covering and poured the pail of cold water and the little fishes over him, so
that they slipped all about him. Then the Prince woke up directly, calling out, "Oh! that makes
me shiver! dear wife, that makes me shiver! Yes, now I know what shivering means!"

DUMMLING AND THE THREE FEATHERS

Once upon a time there lived a King who had three sons; the two elder were learned and bright,
but the youngest said very little and appeared somewhat foolish, so he was always known as
Dummling.

When the King grew old and feeble, feeling that he was nearing his end, he wished to leave
the crown to one of his three sons, but could not decide to which. He thereupon settled that
they should travel, and that the one who could obtain the most splendid carpet should ascend
the throne when he died.

So that there could be no disagreement as to the way each one should go, the King conducted
them to the courtyard of the Palace, and there blew three feathers, by turn, into the air,
telling his sons to follow the course that the three feathers took.

Then one of the feathers flew eastwards, another westwards, but the third went straight up
towards the sky, though it only sped a short distance before falling to earth.

Therefore one son travelled towards the east, and the second went to the west, both making
fun of poor Dummling, who was obliged to stay where his feather had fallen. Then Dummling,
sitting down and feeling rather miserable after his brothers had gone, looked about him, and
noticed that near to where his feather lay was a trap-door. On lifting this up he perceived
a flight of steps, down which he went. At the bottom was another door, so he knocked upon it,
and then heard a voice calling--

  "Maiden, fairest, come to me,
  Make haste to ope the door,
  A mortal surely you will see,
  From the world above is he,
  We'll help him from our store."

And then the door was flung open, and the young man found himself facing a big toad sitting
in the centre of a number of young toads. The big toad addressed him, asking him what he wanted.

Dummling, though rather surprised when he saw the toads, and heard them question him, being
good-hearted replied politely--

"I am desirous to obtain the most splendid carpet in the world; just now it would be extremely
useful to me."

The toad who had just spoken, called to a young toad, saying--

  "Maiden, fairest, come to me,
  'Tis a mortal here you see;
  Let us speed all his desires,
  Giving him what he requires."

Immediately the young toad fetched a large box. This the old one opened, and took out an exquisite
carpet, of so beautiful a design, that it certainly could have been manufactured nowhere upon
the earth.

Taking it with grateful thanks, Dummling went up the flight of steps, and was once more in
the Palace courtyard.

The two elder brothers, being of the opinion that the youngest was so foolish that he was of
no account whatever in trying to obtain the throne, for they did not think he would find anything
at all, had said to each other:

"It is not necessary for us to trouble much in looking for the carpet!" so they took from the
shoulders of the first peasant they came across a coarse shawl, and this they carried to their
father.

At the same time Dummling appeared with his beautiful carpet, which he presented to the King,
who was very much surprised, and said--

"By rights the throne should be for my youngest son."

But when the two brothers heard this, they gave the old King no rest, saying--

"How is it possible that Dummling, who is not at all wise, could control the affairs of an
important kingdom? Make some other condition, we beg of you!"

"Well," agreed the father, "the one who brings me the most magnificent ring shall succeed to
my throne," and once more he took his sons outside the Palace. Then, again, he blew three feathers
into the air to show the direction each one should go; whereupon the two elder sons went east
and west, but Dummling's flew straight up, and fell close by the trap-door. Then the youngest
son descended the steps as before, and upon seeing the large toad he talked with her, and told
her what he desired. So the big box was brought, and out of it the toad handed him a ring which
was of so exquisite a workmanship that no goldsmith's could equal it.

Meanwhile the two elder brothers made fun of the idea of Dummling searching for a ring, and
they decided to take no needless trouble themselves.

Therefore, finding an old iron ring belonging to some harness, they took that to the King.
Dummling was there before them with his valuable ring, and immediately upon his showing it,
the father declared that in justice the kingdom should be his.

In spite of this, however, the two elder sons worried the poor King into appointing one test
further, before bestowing his kingdom, and the King, giving way, announced that the one who
brought home the most beautiful woman should inherit the crown.

Then Dummling again descended to the large toad and made known to her that he wished to find
the most beautiful woman alive.

"The most beautiful woman is not always at hand," said the toad, "however, you shall have her."

Then she gave to him a scooped-out turnip to which half a dozen little mice were attached.
The young man regarded this a trifle despondently, for it had no great resemblance to what
he was seeking.

"What can I make of this?" he asked.

"Only place in it one of my young toads," replied the large toad, "and then you can decide
how to use it."

From the young toads around the old toad, the young man seized one at hazard, and placed it
in the scooped-out turnip, but hardly was it there when the most astounding change occurred,
for the toad was transformed into a wondrously lovely maiden, the turnip became an elegant
carriage, and the six mice were turned into handsome horses. The young man kissed the maiden
and drove off to bring her to the King.

Not long afterwards the two brothers arrived.

In the same way, as the twice before, they had taken no trouble about the matter, but had picked
up the first passable looking peasant woman whom they had happened to meet.

After glancing at the three, the King said: "Without doubt, at my death the kingdom will be
Dummling's."

Once more the brothers loudly expressed their discontent, and gave the King no peace, declaring--

"It is impossible for us to agree to Dummling becoming ruler of the kingdom," and they insisted
that the women should be required to spring through a hoop which was suspended from the ceiling
in the centre of the hall, thinking to themselves "Now, certainly our peasants will get the
best of it, they are active and sturdy, but that fragile lady will kill herself if she jumps."

To this, again, the King consented, and the peasants were first given trial.

They sprang through the hoop, indeed, but so clumsily that they fell, breaking their arms and legs.

Upon which the lovely lady whom Dummling had brought home, leapt through as lightly as a fawn,
and this put an end to all contention.

So the crown came to Dummling, who lived long, and ruled his people temperately and justly.

CATHERINE AND FREDERICK

Once upon a time there was a youth named Frederick and a girl called Catherine, who had married
and lived together as a young couple. One day Fred said, "I am now going into the fields, dear
Catherine, and by the time I return let there be something hot upon the table, for I shall
be hungry, and something to drink, too, for I shall be thirsty."

"Very well, dear Fred," said she, "go at once, and I will make all right for you."

As soon, then, as dinner-time approached, she took down a sausage out of the chimney, and putting
it in a frying-pan with batter, set it over the fire. Soon the sausage began to frizzle and
spit while Catherine stood by holding the handle of the pan and thinking; and among other things
she thought that while the sausage was getting ready she might go into the cellar and draw
some beer. So she took a can and went down into the cellar to draw the beer, and while it ran
into the can, she bethought herself that perhaps the dog might steal the sausage out of the
pan, and so up the cellar stairs she ran, but too late, for the rogue had already got the meat
in his mouth and was sneaking off. Catherine, however, pursued the dog for a long way over
the fields, but the beast was quicker than she, and would not let the sausage go, but bolted
off at a great rate. "Off is off!" said Catherine, and turned round, and being very tired and
hot, she went home slowly to cool herself. All this while the beer was running out of the cask,
for Catherine had forgotten to turn the tap off, and so, as soon as the can was full, the liquor
ran over the floor of the cellar until it was all out. Catherine saw the misfortune at the
top of the steps. "My gracious!" she exclaimed; "what shall I do that Fred may not find this
out?" She considered for some time till she remembered that a sack of fine malt yet remained
from the last brewing, in one corner, which she would fetch down and strew about in the beer.
"Yes," said she, "it was spared at the right time to be useful to me now in my necessity";
and down she pulled the sack so hastily that she overturned the can of beer for Fred, and away
it mixed with the rest on the floor. "It is all right," said she, "where one is, the other
should be," and she strewed the malt over the whole cellar. When it was done she was quite
overjoyed at her work, and said, "How clean and neat it does look, to be sure!"

At noontime Fred returned. "Now, wife, what have you ready for me?" said he. "Ah, my dear Fred,"
she replied, "I would have fried you a sausage, but while I drew the beer the dog stole it
out of the pan, and while I hunted the dog the beer all ran out, and as I was about to dry
up the beer with the malt I overturned your can; but be contented, the cellar is quite dry
again now."

"Oh, Catherine, Catherine!" said Fred; "you should not have done so! to let the sausage be
stolen! and the beer run out! and over all to shoot our best sack of malt!"

"Well, Fred," said she, "I did not know that; you should have told me."

But the husband thought to himself, if one's wife acts so, one must look after things oneself.
Now, he had collected a tolerable sum of silver dollars, which he changed into gold, and then
he told his wife, "Do you see, these are yellow counters which I will put in a pot and bury
in the stable under the cow's stall; but mind that you do not meddle with it, or you will come
to some harm."

Catherine promised to mind what he said, but as soon as Fred was gone some hawkers came into
the village with earthenware for sale, and amongst others they asked her if she would purchase
anything. "Ah, good people," said Catherine, "I have no money, and cannot buy anything, but
if you can make use of yellow counters I will buy them."

"Yellow counters! ah! why not? Let us look at them," said they.

"Go into the stable," she replied, "and dig under the cows stall, and there you will find the
yellow counters. I dare not go myself."

The rogues went at once, and soon dug up the shining gold which they quickly pocketed, and
then they ran off, leaving behind them their pots and dishes in the house. Catherine thought
she might as well make use of the new pottery, and since she had no need of anything in the
kitchen, she set out each pot on the ground, and then put others on the top of the palings
round the house for ornament. When Fred returned, and saw the fresh decorations, he asked Catherine
what she had done. "I have bought them, Fred," said she, "with the yellow counters which lay
under the cow's stall; but I did not dig them up myself; the pedlars did that."

"Ah, wife, what have you done?" replied Fred. "They were not counters, but bright gold, which
was all the property we possessed: you should not have done so."

"Well, dear Fred," replied his wife, "you should have told me so before. I did not know that."

Catherine stood considering for awhile, and presently she began, "Come, Fred, we will soon
get the gold back again; let us pursue the thieves."

"Well, come along," said Fred; "we will try at all events; but take butter and cheese with
you, that we may have something to eat on our journey."

"Yes, Fred," said she, and soon made herself ready; but, her husband being a good walker, she
lagged behind. "Ah!" said she, "this is my luck, for when we turn back I shall be a good bit
forward." Presently she came to a hill, on both sides of which there were very deep ruts. "Oh,
see!" said she, "how the poor earth is torn, flayed, and wounded; it will never be well again
all its life!" And out of compassion she took out her butter, and greased the ruts over right
and left, so that the wheels might run more easily through them, and, while she stooped in
doing this, a cheese rolled out of her pocket down the mountain. Catherine said when she saw
it, "I have already once made the journey up, and I am not coming down after you: another shall
run and fetch you." So saying, she took another cheese out of her pocket and rolled it down;
but as it did not return, she thought, "Perhaps they are waiting for a companion and don't
like to come alone"; and down she bowled a third cheese. Still all three stayed, and she said,
"I cannot think what this means; perhaps it is that the third cheese has missed his way: I
will send a fourth, that he may call him as he goes by." But this one acted no better than
the others, and Catherine became so anxious that she threw down a fifth and a sixth cheese
also, and they were the last. For a long time after this she waited, expecting they would come,
but when she found they did not she cried out, "You are nice fellows to send after a dead man!
you stop a fine time! but do you think I shall wait for you? Oh, no! I shall go on; you can
follow me; you have younger legs than I."

So saying, Catherine walked on and came up with Fred, who was waiting for her, because he needed
something to eat. "Now," said he, "give me quickly what you brought." She handed him the dry
bread. "Where are the butter and cheese?" cried her husband. "Oh, Fred, dear," she replied,
"with the butter I have smeared the ruts, and the cheeses will soon come, but one ran away,
and I sent the others after it to call it back!"

"It was silly of you to do so," said Fred, "to grease the roads with butter, and to roll cheese
down the hill!"

"If you had but told me so," said Catherine, vexedly.

So they ate the dry bread together, and presently Fred said, "Catherine, did you make things
fast at home before you came out?"

"No, Fred," said she, "you did not tell me."

"Then go back and lock up the house before we go farther; bring something to eat with you,
and I will stop here for you."

Back went Catherine, thinking, "Ah! Fred will like something else to eat. Butter and cheese
will not please; I will bring with me a bag of dried apples and a mug of vinegar to drink."
When she had put these things together she bolted the upper half of the door, but the under
door she raised up and carried away on her shoulder, thinking that certainly the house was
well protected if she took such good care of the door! Catherine walked along now very leisurely,
for, said she to herself, "Fred will have all the longer rest!" and as soon as she reached
him she gave him the door, saying, "There, Fred, now you have the house door you can take care
of the house yourself."

"Oh! my goodness," exclaimed the husband, "what a clever wife I have! She has bolted the top
door, but brought away the bottom part, where any one can creep through! Now it is too late
to go back to the house, but since you brought the door here you may carry it onward."

"The door I will willingly carry," replied Catherine, "but the apples and the vinegar will
be too heavy, so I shall hang them on the door and make that carry them!"

Soon after they came into a wood and looked about for the thieves, but they, could not find
them, and when it became dark they climbed up into a tree to pass the night. But scarcely had
they done this when up came the fellows who carried away what should not go with them, and
find things before they are lost. They laid themselves down right under the tree upon which
Fred and Catherine were, and making a fire, prepared to share their booty. Then Fred slipped
down on the other side, and collected stones, with which he climbed the tree again, to beat
the thieves with. The stones, however, did them no harm, for the fellows called out, "Ah! it
will soon be morning, for the wind is shaking down the chestnuts." All this while Catherine
still had the door upon her shoulder, and, as it pressed very heavily, she thought the dried
apples were in fault, and said to Fred, "I must throw down these apples." "No, Catherine,"
said he, "not now, they might discover us." "Ah, I must, though, they are so heavy."

"Well, then, do it in the hangman's name!" cried Fred.

As they fell down the rogues said, "Ah! the birds are pulling off the leaves."

A little while after Catherine said again, "Oh! Fred, I must pour out the vinegar, it is so heavy."

"No, no!" said he, "it will discover us."

"Ah! but I must, Fred, it is very heavy," said Catherine.

"Well, then, do it in the hangman's name!" cried Fred.

So she poured out the vinegar, and as it dropped on them the thieves said, "Ah! the dew is
beginning to fall."

Not many minutes after Catherine found the door was still quite as heavy, and said again to
Fred, "Now I must throw down this door."

"No, Catherine," said he, "that would certainly discover us."

"Ah! Fred, but I must; it presses me so terribly."

"No, Catherine dear! do hold it fast," said Fred.

"There--it is gone!" said she.

"Then let it go in the hangman's name!" cried Fred, while it fell crashing through the branches.
The rogues below thought the Evil One was descending the tree, and ran off, leaving everything
behind them. And early in the morning Fred and his wife descended, and found all their gold
under the tree.

As soon as they got home again, Fred said, "Now, Catherine, you must be very industrious and
work hard."

"Yes, my dear husband," said she; "I will go into the fields to cut corn." When she was come
into the field she said to herself, "Shall I eat before I cut, or sleep first before I cut?"
She determined to eat, and soon became so sleepy over her meal that when she began to cut she
knew not what she was doing, and cut off half her clothes--gown, petticoat and all. When, after
a long sleep, Catherine awoke, she got up half-stripped, and said to herself, "Am I myself?
or am I not? Ah! I am not myself." By and by night came on, and Catherine ran into the village,
and, knocking at her husband's window, called, "Fred!"

"What is the matter?" cried he.

"I want to know if Catherine is indoors!" said she.

"Yes, yes!" answered Fred, "she is certainly within, fast asleep."

"Then I am at home," said she, and ran away.

Standing outside Catherine found some thieves, wanting to steal, and going up to them she said,
"I will help you."

At this the thieves were very glad, not doubting but that she knew where to light on what they
sought. But Catherine, stepping in front of the houses, called out, "Good people, what have
you that we can steal?" At this the thieves said, "You will do for us with a vengeance!" and
they wished they had never come near her; but in order to rid themselves of her they said,
"Just before the village the parson has some roots lying in his field; go and fetch some."

Catherine went as she was bid, and began to grub for them, and soon made herself very dirty
with the earth. Presently a man came by and saw her, and stood still, for he thought it was
the Evil One who was grovelling so among the roots. Away he ran into the village to the parson,
and told him the Evil One was in his field, rooting up the turnips. "Ah! heavens!" said the
parson, "I have a lame foot, and I cannot go out to exorcize him."

"Then I will carry you a-pickaback," said the man, and took him up.

Just as they arrived in the field, Catherine got up and drew herself up to her full height.

"Oh! it is the Evil One!" cried the parson, and both he and the man hurried away; and, behold!
the parson ran faster with his lame legs, through fear and terror, than the countryman could
with his sound legs!

THE VALIANT LITTLE TAILOR

One fine day a Tailor was sitting on his bench by the window in very high spirits, sewing away
most diligently, and presently up the street came a country woman, crying, "Good jams for sale!
Good jams for sale!" This cry sounded nice in the Tailor's ears, and, poking his diminutive
head out of the window, he called, "Here, my good woman, just bring your jams in here!" The
woman mounted the three steps up to the Tailor's house with her large basket, and began to
open all the pots together before him. He looked at them all, held them up to the light, smelt
them, and at last said, "These jams seem to me to be very nice, so you may weigh me out two
ounces, my good woman; I don't object even if you make it a quarter of a pound." The woman,
who hoped to have met with a good customer, gave him all he wished, and went off grumbling,
and in a very bad temper.

"Now!" exclaimed the Tailor, "Heaven will send me a blessing on this jam, and give me fresh
strength and vigor;" and, taking the bread from the cupboard, he cut himself a slice the size
of the whole loaf, and spread the jam upon it. "That will taste very nice," said he; "but,
before I take a bite, I will just finish this waistcoat." So he put the bread on the table
and stitched away, making larger and larger stitches every time for joy. Meanwhile the smell
of the jam rose to the ceiling, where many flies were sitting, and enticed them down, so that
soon a great swarm of them had pitched on the bread. "Holloa! who asked you?" exclaimed the
Tailor, driving away the uninvited visitors; but the flies, not understanding his words, would
not be driven off, and came back in greater numbers than before. This put the little man in
a great passion, and, snatching up in his anger a bag of cloth, he brought it down with a merciless
swoop upon them. When he raised it again he counted as many as seven lying dead before him
with outstretched legs. "What a fellow you are!" said he to himself, astonished at his own
bravery. "The whole town must hear of this." In great haste he cut himself out a band, hemmed
it, and then put on it in large letters, "SEVEN AT ONE BLOW!" "Ah," said he, "not one city
alone, the whole world shall hear it!" and his heart danced with joy, like a puppy-dog's tail.

The little Tailor bound the belt around his body, and made ready to travel forth into the wide
world, feeling the workshop too small for his great deeds. Before he set out, however, he looked
about his house to see if there were anything he could carry with him, but he found only an
old cheese, which he pocketed, and observing a bird which was caught in the bushes before the
door, he captured it, and put that in his pocket also. Soon after he set out boldly on his
travels; and, as he was light and active, he felt no fatigue. His road led him up a hill, and
when he arrived at the highest point of it he found a great Giant sitting there, who was gazing
about him very composedly.

But the little Tailor went boldly up, and said, "Good day, friend; truly you sit there and
see the whole world stretched below you. I also am on my way thither to seek my fortune. Are
you willing to go with me?"

The Giant looked with scorn at the little Tailor, and said, "You rascal! you wretched creature!"

"Perhaps so," replied the Tailor; "but here may be seen what sort of a man I am;" and, unbuttoning
his coat, he showed the Giant his belt. The Giant read, "SEVEN AT ONE BLOW"; and supposing
they were men whom the Tailor had killed, he felt some respect for him. Still he meant to try
him first; so taking up a pebble, he squeezed it so hard that water dropped out of it. "Do
as well as that," said he to the other, "if you have the strength."

"If it be nothing harder than that," said the Tailor, "that's child's play." And, diving into
his pocket, he pulled out the cheese and squeezed it till the whey ran out of it, and said,
"Now, I fancy that I have done better than you."

The Giant wondered what to say, and could not believe it of the little man; so, catching up
another pebble, he flung it so high that it almost went out of sight, saying, "There, you pigmy,
do that if you can."

"Well done," said the Tailor; "but your pebble will fall down again to the ground. I will throw
one up which will not come down;" and, dipping into his pocket, he took out the bird and threw
it into the air. The bird, glad to be free, flew straight up, and then far away, and did not
come back. "How does that little performance please you, friend?" asked the Tailor.

"You can throw well," replied the giant; "now truly we will see if you are able to carry something
uncommon." So saying, he took him to a large oak tree, which lay upon the ground, and said,
"If you are strong enough, now help me to carry this tree out of the forest."

"With pleasure," replied the Tailor; "you may hold the trunk upon your shoulder, and I will
lift the boughs and branches, they are the heaviest, and carry them."

The Giant took the trunk upon his shoulder, but the Tailor sat down on one of the branches,
and the Giant, who could not look round, was compelled to carry the whole tree and the Tailor
also. He being behind, was very cheerful, and laughed at the trick, and presently began to
sing the song, "There rode three tailors out at the gate," as if the carrying of trees were
a trifle. The Giant, after he had staggered a very short distance with his heavy load, could
go no further, and called out, "Do you hear? I must drop the tree." The Tailor, jumping down,
quickly embraced the tree with both arms, as if he had been carrying it, and said to the Giant,
"Are you such a big fellow, and yet cannot you carry a tree by yourself?"

Then they travelled on further, and as they came to a cherry-tree, the Giant seized the top
of the tree where the ripest cherries hung, and, bending it down, gave it to the Tailor to
hold, telling him to eat. But the Tailor was far too weak to hold the tree down, and when the
Giant let go, the tree flew up in the air, and the Tailor was taken with it. He came down on
the other side, however, unhurt, and the Giant said, "What does that mean? Are you not strong
enough to hold that twig?" "My strength did not fail me," said the Tailor; "do you imagine
that that was a hard task for one who has slain seven at one blow? I sprang over the tree simply
because the hunters were shooting down here in the thicket. Jump after me if you can." The
Giant made the attempt, but could not clear the tree, and stuck fast in the branches; so that
in this affair, too, the Tailor had the advantage.

Then the Giant said, "Since you are such a brave fellow, come with me to my house, and stop
a night with me." The Tailor agreed, and followed him; and when they came to the cave, there
sat by the fire two other Giants, each with a roast sheep in his hand, of which he was eating.
The Tailor sat down thinking. "Ah, this is very much more like the world than is my workshop."
And soon the Giant pointed out a bed where he could lie down and go to sleep. The bed, however,
was too large for him, so he crept out of it, and lay down in a corner. When midnight came,
and the Giant fancied the Tailor would be in a sound sleep, he got up, and taking a heavy iron
bar, beat the bed right through at one stroke, and believed he had thereby given the Tailor
his death-blow. At the dawn of day the Giants went out into the forest, quite forgetting the
Tailor, when presently up he came, quite cheerful, and showed himself before them. The Giants
were frightened, and, dreading he might kill them all, they ran away in a great hurry.

The Tailor travelled on, always following his nose, and after he had journeyed some long distance,
he came into the courtyard of a royal palace; and feeling very tired he laid himself down on
the ground and went to sleep. Whilst he lay there the people came and viewed him on all sides,
and read upon his belt, "Seven at one blow." "Ah," they said, "what does this great warrior
here in time of peace? This must be some valiant hero." So they went and told the King, knowing
that, should war break out, here was a valuable and useful man, whom one ought not to part
with at any price. The King took advice, and sent one of his courtiers to the Tailor to beg
for his fighting services, if he should be awake. The messenger stopped at the sleeper's side,
and waited till he stretched out his limbs and unclosed his eyes, and then he mentioned to
him his message. "Solely for that reason did I come here," was his answer; "I am quite willing
to enter into the King's service." Then he was taken away with great honor, and a fine house
was appointed him to dwell in.

The courtiers, however, became jealous of the Tailor, and wished him at the other end of the
world. "What will happen?" said they to one another. "If we go to war with him, when he strikes
out seven will fall at one stroke, and nothing will be left for us to do." In their anger they
came to the determination to resign, and they went all together to the King, and asked his
permission, saying, "We are not prepared to keep company with a man who kills seven at one
blow." The King was sorry to lose all his devoted servants for the sake of one, and wished
that he had never seen the Tailor, and would gladly have now been rid of him. He dared not,
however dismiss him, because he feared the Tailor might kill him and all his subjects, and
seat himself upon the throne. For a long time he deliberated, till finally he came to a decision;
and, sending for the Tailor, he told him that, seeing he was so great a hero, he wished to
beg a favor of him. "In a certain forest in my kingdom," said the King, "there are two Giants,
who, by murder, rapine, fire, and robbery, have committed great damage, and no one approaches
them without endangering his own life. If you overcome and slay both these Giants, I will give
you my only daughter in marriage, and half of my kingdom for a dowry: a hundred knights shall
accompany you, too, in order to render you assistance."

"Ah, that is something for a man like me," thought the Tailor to himself: "a lovely Princess
and half a kingdom are not offered to one every day." "Oh, yes," he replied, "I will soon settle
these two Giants, and a hundred horsemen are not needed for that purpose; he who kills seven
at one blow has no fear of two."

Speaking thus, the little Tailor set out, followed by the hundred knights, to whom he said,
immediately they came to the edge of the forest, "You must stay here; I prefer to meet these
Giants alone."

Then he ran off into the forest, peering about him on all sides; and after a while he saw the
two Giants sound asleep under a tree, snoring so loudly that the branches above them shook
violently. The Tailor, bold as a lion, filled both his pockets with stones and climbed up the
tree. When he got to the middle of it he crawled along a bough, so that he sat just above the
sleepers, and then he let fall one stone after another upon the body of one of them. For some
time the Giant did not move, until, at last awaking, he pushed his companion, and said, "Why
are you hitting me?"

"You have been dreaming," he answered; "I did not touch you." So they laid themselves down
again to sleep, and presently the Tailor threw a stone down upon the other. "What is that?"
he cried. "Why are you knocking me about?"

"I did not touch you; you are dreaming," said the first. So they argued for a few minutes;
but, both being very weary with the day's work, they soon went to sleep again. Then the Tailor
began his fun again, and, picking out the largest stone, threw it with all his strength upon
the chest of the first Giant. "This is too bad!" he exclaimed; and, jumping up like a madman,
he fell upon his companion, who considered himself equally injured, and they set to in such
good earnest, that they rooted up trees and beat one another about until they both fell dead
upon the ground. Then the Tailor jumped down, saying, "What a piece of luck they did not pull
up the tree on which I sat, or else I must have jumped on another like a squirrel, for I am
not used to flying." Then he drew his sword, and, cutting a deep wound in the breast of both,
he went to the horsemen and said, "The deed is done; I have given each his death-stroke; but
it was a tough job, for in their defence they uprooted trees to protect themselves with; still,
all that is of no use when such an one as I come, who slew seven at one stroke."

"And are you not wounded?" they asked.

"How can you ask me that? they have not injured a hair of my head," replied the little man.
The knights could hardly believe him, till, riding into the forest, they found the Giants lying
dead, and the uprooted trees around them.

Then the Tailor demanded the promised reward of the King; but he repented of his promise, and
began to think of some new plan to shake off the hero. "Before you receive my daughter and
the half of my kingdom," said he to him, "you must execute another brave deed. In the forest
there lives a unicorn that commits great damage, you must first catch him."

"I fear a unicorn less than I did two Giants! Seven at one blow is my motto," said the Tailor.
So he carried with him a rope and an axe and went off to the forest, ordering those, who were
told to accompany him, to wait on the outskirts. He had not to hunt long, for soon the unicorn
approached, and prepared to rush at him as if it would pierce him on the spot. "Steady! steady!"
he exclaimed, "that is not done so easily"; and, waiting till the animal was close upon him,
he sprang nimbly behind a tree. The unicorn, rushing with all its force against the tree, stuck
its horn so fast in the trunk that it could not pull it out again, and so it remained prisoner.

"Now I have got him," said the Tailor; and coming from behind the tree, he first bound the
rope around its neck, and then cutting the horn out of the tree with his axe, he arranged everything,
and, leading the unicorn, brought it before the King.

The King, however, would not yet deliver over the promised reward, and made a third demand,
that, before the marriage, the Tailor should capture a wild boar which did much damage, and
he should have the huntsmen to help him. "With pleasure," was the reply; "it is a mere nothing."
The huntsmen, however, he left behind, to their great joy, for this wild boar had already so
often hunted them, that they saw no fun in now hunting it. As soon as the boar perceived the
Tailor, it ran at him with gaping mouth and glistening teeth, and tried to throw him down on
the ground; but our flying hero sprang into a little chapel which stood near, and out again
at a window, on the other side, in a moment. The boar ran after him, but he, skipping around,
closed the door behind it, and there the furious beast was caught, for it was much too unwieldy
and heavy to jump out of the window.

The Tailor now ordered the huntsmen up, that they might see his prisoner with their own eyes;
but our hero presented himself before the King, who was obliged at last, whether he would or
no, to keep his word, and surrender his daughter and the half of his kingdom.

If he had known that it was no warrior, but only a Tailor, who stood before him, it would have
grieved him still more.

So the wedding was celebrated with great magnificence, though with little rejoicing, and out
of a Tailor there was made a King.

A short time afterwards the young Queen heard her husband talking in his sleep, saying, "Boy,
make me a coat, and then stitch up these trowsers, or I will lay the yard-measure over your
shoulders!" Then she understood of what condition her husband was, and complained in the morning
to her father, and begged he would free her from her husband, who was nothing more than a tailor.
The King comforted her by saying, "This night leave your chamber-door open: my servants shall
stand outside, and when he is asleep they shall come in, bind him, and carry him away to a
ship, which shall take him out into the wide world." The wife was pleased with the proposal;
but the King's armor-bearer, who had overheard all, went to the young King and revealed the
whole plot. "I will soon put an end to this affair," said the valiant little Tailor. In the
evening at their usual time they went to bed, and when his wife thought he slept she got up,
opened the door, and laid herself down again. Seven have I slain with one blow, two Giants
have I killed, a unicorn have I led captive, and a wild boar have I caught, and shall I be
afraid of those who stand outside my room?"

When the men heard these words spoken by the Tailor, a great fear came over them, and they
ran away as if wild huntsmen were following them; neither afterwards dared any man venture
to oppose him. Thus the Tailor became a King, and so he lived for the rest of his life.

LITTLE RED CAP

Many years ago there lived a dear little girl who was beloved by every one who knew her; but
her grand-mother was so very fond of her that she never felt she could think and do enough
to please this dear grand-daughter, and she presented the little girl with a red silk cap,
which suited her so well, that she would never wear anything else, and so was called Little
Red-Cap.

"Thank you, Mr. Wolf," said she.

"Where are you going so early, Little Red-Cap?"

"To my grandmother's," she answered.

"And what are you carrying in that basket?"

THE GOLDEN GOOSE

There was once a man who had three sons. The youngest was called Dummerly, and was on all occasions
scorned and ill-treated by the whole family. It happened that the eldest took it into his head
one day to go into the forest to cut wood; and his mother gave him a delicious meat pie and
a bottle of wine to take with him, that he might sustain himself at his work. As he went into
the forest, a little old man bid him good day, and said, "Give me a little bit of meat from
your plate, and a little wine out of your flask; I am very hungry and thirsty." But this clever
young man said, "Give you my meat and wine! No, I thank you; there would not be enough left
for me;" and he went on his way. He soon began to chop down a tree; but he had not worked long
before he missed his stroke, and cut himself, and was obliged to go home and have the wound
bound up. Now, it was the little old man who caused him this mischief.

Next the second son went out to work; and his mother gave him, too, a meat pie and a bottle
of wine. And the same little old man encountered him also, and begged him for something to
eat and drink. But he, too, thought himself extremely clever, and said, "Whatever you get,
I shall be without; so go your way!" The little man made sure that he should have his reward;
and the second stroke that he struck at a tree, hit him on the leg, so that he too was compelled
to go home.

Then Dummerly said, "Father, I should like to go and cut fuel too." But his father replied,
"Your brothers have both maimed themselves; you had better stop at home, for you know nothing
of the job." But Dummerly was very urgent; and at last his father said, "Go your way; you will
be wiser when you have suffered for your foolishness." And his mother gave him only some dry
bread, and a bottle of sour ale; but when he went into the forest, he met the little old man,
who said, "Give me some meat and drink, for I am very hungry and thirsty." Dummerly said, "I
have nothing but dry bread and sour beer; if that will do for you, we will sit down and eat
it together." So they sat down, and when the lad took out his bread, behold it was turned into
a splendid meat pie, and his sour beer became delicious wine! They ate and drank heartily,
and when they had finished, the little man said, "As you have a kind heart, and have been willing
to share everything with me I will bring good to you. There stands an old tree; chop it down,
and you will find something at the root." Then he took his leave and went his way.

Dummerly set to work, and cut down the tree; and when it fell, he discovered in a hollow under
the roots a goose with plumage of pure gold. He took it up, and went on to an inn, where he
proposed sleep for the night. The landlord had three daughters, and when they saw the goose,
they were very curious to find out what this wonderful bird could be, and wished very much
to pluck one of the feathers out of its tail. At last the eldest said, "I must and will have
a feather." So she waited till his back was turned, and then caught hold of the goose by the
wing; but to her great surprise, there she stuck, for neither hand nor finger could she pull
away again. Presently in came the second sister, and thought to have a feather too; but the
instant she touched her sister, there she too hung fast. At last came the third, and desired
a feather; but the other two cried out, "Keep away! for heaven's sake, keep away!" However,
she did not understand what they meant. "If they are there," thought she, "I may as well be
there too," so she went up to them. But the moment she touched her sisters she stuck fast,
and hung to the goose as they did. And so they abode with the goose all night.

The next morning Dummerly carried off the goose under his arm, and took no heed of the three
girls, but went out with them sticking fast behind; and wherever he journeyed, the three were
obliged to follow, whether they wished or not, as fast as their legs could carry them.

In the middle of a field the parson met them; and when he saw the procession, he said, "Are
you not ashamed of yourselves, you bold girls, to run after the young man like that over the
fields? Is that proper behavior?"

Then he took the youngest by the hand to lead her away; but the moment he touched her he, too,
hung fast, and followed in the procession.

Presently up came the clerk; and when he saw his master, the parson, running after the three
girls, he was greatly surprised, and said, "Hollo! hollo! your reverence! whither so fast!
There is a christening to-day."

Then he ran up, and caught him by the gown, and instantly he was fast too.

As the five were thus trudging along, one after another, they met two laborers with their mattocks
coming from work; and the parson called out to them to set him free. But hardly had they touched
him, when they, too, joined the ranks, and so made seven, all running after Dummerly and his goose.

At last they came to a city, where reigned a King who had an only daughter. The princess was
of so thoughtful and serious a turn of mind that no one could make her laugh; and the King
had announced to all the world that whoever could make her laugh should have her for his wife.
When the young man heard this, he went to her with the goose and all its followers; and as
soon as she saw the seven all hanging together, and running about, treading on each other's
heels, she could not help bursting into a long and loud laugh.

Then Dummerly claimed her for his bride; the wedding took place, and he was heir to the kingdom,
and lived long and happily with his wife.

BEARSKIN

There was once upon a time a young fellow who enlisted for a soldier, and became so brave and
courageous that he was always in the front ranks when it rained blue beans.[1] As long as the
war lasted all went well, but when peace was concluded he received his discharge, and the captain
told him he might go where he liked. His parents meanwhile had died, and as he had no longer
any home to go to he paid a visit to his brothers, and asked them to give him shelter until
war broke out again. His brothers, however, were hard-hearted, and said, "What could we do
with you? We could make nothing of you; see to what you have brought yourself"; and so turned
a deaf ear. The poor Soldier had nothing but his musket left; so he mounted this on his shoulder
and set out on a tramp. By and by he came to a great heath with nothing on it but a circle
of trees, under which he sat down, sorrowfully considering his fate. "I have no money," thought
he; "I have learnt nothing but soldiering, and now, since peace is concluded, there is no need
of me. I see well enough I shall have to starve." All at once he heard a rustling, and as he
looked round he perceived a stranger standing before him, dressed in a gray coat, who looked
very stately, but had an ugly cloven foot. "I know quite well what you need," said this being;
"gold and other possessions you shall have, as much as you can spend; but first I must know
whether you are a coward or not, that I may not spend my money foolishly."

"A soldier and a coward!" replied the other, "that cannot be; you may put me to any proof."

"Well, then," replied the stranger, "look behind you."

[Footnote 1: Small shot.]

The Soldier turned and saw a huge bear, which eyed him very ferociously. "Oho!" cried he, "I
will tickle your nose for you, that you shall no longer be able to grumble"; and, raising his
musket, he shot the bear in the forehead, so that he tumbled in a heap upon the ground, and
did not stir afterward. Thereupon the stranger said, "I see quite well that you are not wanting
in courage; but there is yet one condition which you must fulfil." "If it does not interfere
with my future happiness," said the Soldier, who had remarked who it was that addressed him;
"if it does not interfere with that, I shall not hesitate."

"That you must see about yourself!" said the stranger. "For the next seven years you must not
wash yourself, nor comb your hair or beard, neither must you cut your nails nor say one paternoster.
Then I will give you this coat and mantle, which you must wear during these seven years; and
if you die within that time you are mine, but if you live you are rich, and free all your life
long."

The Soldier reflected for awhile on his great necessities, and, remembering how often he had
braved death, he at length consented, and ventured to accept the offer. Thereupon the Evil
One pulled off the gray coat, handed it to the soldier, and said, "If you at any time search
in the pockets of your coat when you have it on, you will always find your hand full of money."
Then also he pulled off the skin of the bear, and said, "That shall be your cloak and your
bed; you must sleep on it, and not dare to lie in any other bed, and on this account you shall
be called 'Bearskin.'" Immediately the Evil One disappeared.

The Soldier now put on the coat, and dipped his hands into the pockets, to assure himself of
the reality of the transaction. Then he hung the bearskin around himself, and went about the
world chuckling at his good luck, and buying whatever suited his fancy which money could purchase.
For the first year his appearance was not very remarkable, but in the second he began to look
quite a monster. His hair covered almost all his face, his beard appeared like a piece of dirty
cloth, his nails were claws, and his countenance was so covered with dirt that one might have
grown cresses upon it if one had sown seed! Whoever looked at him ran away; but because he
gave the poor in every place gold coin they prayed that he might not die during the seven years;
and because he paid liberally everywhere, he found a night's lodging without difficulty. In
the fourth year he came to an inn where the landlord would not take him in, and refused even
to give him a place in his stables, lest the horses should be frightened and become restive.
However, when Bearskin put his hand into his pocket and drew it out full of gold ducats the
landlord yielded the point, and gave him a place in the outbuildings, but not till he had promised
that he would not show himself, for fear the inn should gain a bad name.

While Bearskin sat by himself in the evening, wishing from his heart that the seven years were
over, he heard in the corner a loud groan. Now the old Soldier had a compassionate heart, so
he opened the door and saw an old man weeping violently and wringing his hands. Bearskin stepped
nearer, but the old man jumped up and tried to escape; but when he recognized a human voice
he let himself be persuaded, and by kind words and soothings on the part of the old Soldier
he at length disclosed the cause of his distress. His property had dwindled away by degrees,
and he and his daughters would have to starve, for he was so poor that he had not the money
to pay the host, and would therefore be put into prison.

"If you have no care except that," replied Bearskin, "I have money enough"; and causing the
landlord to be called, he paid him, and put a purse full of gold besides into the pocket of
the old man. The latter, when he saw himself released from his troubles, knew not how to be
sufficiently grateful, and said to the Soldier, "Come with me; my daughters are all wonders
of beauty, so choose one of them for a wife. When they hear what you have done for me they
will not refuse you. You appear certainly an uncommon man, but they will soon put you to rights."

This speech pleased Bearskin, and he went with the old man. As soon as the eldest daughter
saw him, she was so terrified at his countenance that she shrieked out and ran away. The second
one stopped and looked at him from head to foot; but at last she said, "How can I take a husband
who has not a bit of a human countenance? The grizzly bear would have pleased me better who
came to see us once, and gave himself out as a man, for he wore a hussar's hat, and had white
gloves on besides."

But the youngest daughter said, "Dear father, this must be a good man who has assisted you
out of your troubles; if you have promised him a bride for the service your word must be kept"

It was a pity the man's face was covered with dirt and hair, else one would have seen how glad
at heart these words made him. Bearskin took a ring off his finger, broke it in two, and, giving
the youngest daughter one half, he kept the other for himself. On her half he wrote his name,
and on his own he wrote hers, and begged her to preserve it carefully. Thereupon he took leave,
saying, "For three years longer I must wander about; if I come back again, then we will celebrate
our wedding; but if I do not, you are free, for I shall be dead. But pray to God that he will
preserve my life."

When he was gone the poor bride clothed herself in black, and whenever she thought of her bridegroom
burst into tears. From her sisters she received nothing but scorn and mocking. "Pay great attention
when he shakes your hand," said the eldest, "and you will see his beautiful claws!" "Take care!"
said the second, "bears are fond of sweets, and if you please him he will eat you up, perhaps!"
"You must mind and do his will," continued the eldest, "or he will begin growling!" And the
second daughter said further, "But the wedding will certainly be merry, for bears dance well!"
The bride kept silence, and would not be drawn from her purpose by all these taunts; and meanwhile
Bearskin wandered about in the world, doing good where he could, and giving liberally to the
poor, for which they prayed heartily for him. At length the last day of the seven years approached,
and Bearskin went and sat down again on the heath beneath the circle of trees. In a very short
time the wind whistled, and the Evil One presently stood before him and looked at him with
a vexed face. He threw the Soldier his old coat and demanded his gray one back. "We have not
got so far as that yet," replied Bearskin; "you must clean me first." Then the Evil One had,
whether he liked it or no, to fetch water, wash the old Soldier, comb his hair out, and cut
his nails. This done, he appeared again like a brave warrior, and indeed was much handsomer
than before.

As soon as the Evil One had disappeared, Bearskin became quite light-hearted; and going into
the nearest town he bought a fine velvet coat, and hired a carriage drawn by four white horses,
in which he was driven to the house of his bride. Nobody knew him; the father took him for
some celebrated general, and led him into the room where his daughters were. He was compelled
to sit down between the two eldest, and they offered him wine, and heaped his plate with the
choicest morsels; for they thought they had never seen any one so handsome before. But the
bride sat opposite to him dressed in black, neither opening her eyes nor speaking a word. At
length the Soldier asked the father if he would give him one of his daughters to wife, and
immediately the two elder sisters arose, and ran to their chambers to dress themselves out
in their most becoming clothes, for each thought she should be chosen. Meanwhile the stranger,
as soon as he found himself alone with his bride, pulled out the half of the ring and threw
it into a cup of wine, which he handed across the table. She took it, and as soon as she had
drunk it and seen the half ring lying at the bottom her heart beat rapidly, and she produced
the other half, which she wore round her neck on a riband. She held them together, and they
joined each other exactly, and the stranger said, "I am your bridegroom, whom you first saw
as Bearskin; but through God's mercy I have regained my human form, and am myself once more."
With these words he embraced and kissed her; and at the same time the two eldest sisters entered
in full costume. As soon as they saw that the very handsome man had fallen to the share of
their youngest sister, and heard that he was the same as "Bearskin," they ran out of the house
full of rage and jealousy. Then she brought the dish to her mother. But they did not know her,
she looked so fine and beautiful in her rich clothes. Then the king's son waited till her father
came home, and said to him, "The unknown lady has slipped away, and I think she must have sprung
into the pear-tree." But her big toe could not go into it, and the shoe was altogether much
too small for her. But when they came to the hazel-tree, the little dove sat there still, and
sang as before. Then the king's son looked down, and saw that the blood streamed from the shoe.
So he brought her back again also. "This is not the true bride," said he to the father; "have
you no other daughters?" As soon as John came to the bedside, the King said, "My faithful John,
I feel that my end approaches, and I have no other care than about my son, who is still so
young that he cannot always guide himself aright. If you do not promise to instruct him in
everything he ought to know, and to be his guardian, I cannot close my eyes in peace." Then
John answered, "I will never leave him; I will always serve him truly, even if it costs me
my life." So the old King was comforted, and said, "Now I can die in peace. After my death
you must show him all the chambers, halls, and vaults in the castle, and all the treasures
which are in them; but the last room in the long corridor you must not show him, for in it
hangs the portrait of the daughter of the King of the Golden Palace; if he sees her picture,
he will conceive a great love for her, and will fall down in a swoon, and on her account undergo
great perils, therefore you must keep him away." The faithful John pressed his master's hand
again in token of assent, and soon after the King laid his head upon the pillow and expired.

After the old King had been borne to his grave, the faithful John related to the young King
all that his father had said upon his death-bed, and declared, "All this I will certainly fulfil;
I will be as true to you as I was to him, if it costs me my life." When the time of mourning
was passed, John said to the young King, "It is now time for you to see your inheritance; I
will show you your paternal castle." So he led the King all over it, upstairs and downstairs,
and showed him all the riches, and all the splendid chambers; only one room he did not open,
containing the perilous portrait, which was so placed that one saw it directly the door was
opened, and, moreover, it was so beautifully painted that one thought it breathed and moved;
nothing in all the world could be more lifelike or more beautiful. The young King remarked,
however, that the faithful John always passed by one door, so he asked, "Why do you not open
that one?" "There is something in it," he replied, "which will frighten you."

But the King said, "I have seen all the rest of the castle, and I will know what is in there,"
and he went and tried to open the door by force. The faithful John pulled him back, and said,
"I promised your father before he died that you should not see the contents of that room; it
would bring great misfortunes both upon you and me."

"Oh, no," replied the young King, "if I do not go in it will be my certain ruin; I should have
no peace night nor day until I had seen it with my own eyes. Now I will not stir from the place
till you unlock the door."

Then the faithful John saw that it was of no use talking; so, with a heavy heart and many sighs,
he picked the key out of the great bunch. When he had opened the door, he went in first, and
thought he would cover up the picture, that the King should not see it; but it was of no use,
for the King stepped upon tiptoes and looked over his shoulder; and as soon as he saw the portrait
of the maiden, which was so beautiful and glittered with precious stones, he fell down on the
ground insensible. The faithful John lifted him up and carried him to his bed, and thought
with great concern, "Mercy on us! the misfortune has happened; what will come of it?" and he
gave the young King wine until he came to himself. The first words he spoke were, "Who does
that beautiful picture represent?" "That is the daughter of the King of the Golden Palace,"
was the reply.

"Then," said the King, "my love for her is so great that if all the leaves on the trees had
tongues, they should not gainsay it; my life is set upon the search for her. You are my faithful
John, you must accompany me."

The trusty servant deliberated for a long while how to set about this business, for it was
very difficult to get into the presence of the King's daughter. At last he bethought himself
of a way, and said to the King, "Everything which she has around her is of gold--chairs, tables,
dishes, bowls, and all the household utensils. Among your treasures are five tons of gold;
let one of the goldsmiths of your kingdom manufacture vessels and utensils of all kinds therefrom--all
kinds of birds, and wild and wonderful beasts, such as will please her, then we will travel
with these, and try our luck." Then the King summoned all his goldsmiths, who worked day and
night until many very beautiful things were ready. When all had been placed on board a ship,
the faithful John put on merchant's clothes, and the King likewise, so that they might travel
quite unknown. Then they sailed over the wide sea, and sailed away until they came to the city
where dwelt the daughter of the King of the Golden Palace.

The faithful John told the King to remain in the ship, and wait for him. "Perhaps," said he,
"I shall bring the King's daughter with me; therefore take care that all is in order, and set
out the golden vessels and adorn the whole ship." Thereupon John placed in a napkin some of
the golden cups, stepped upon land, and went straight to the King's palace. When he came into
the castle yard, a beautiful maid stood by the brook, who had two golden pails in her hand,
drawing water; and when she had filled them and had turned round, she saw a strange man, and
asked who he was. Then John answered, "I am a merchant"; and opening his napkin he showed her
its contents. Then she exclaimed, "Oh, what beautiful golden things!" and, setting the pails
down, she looked at the cups one after another, and said, "The King's daughter must see these;
she is so pleased with anything made of gold that she will buy all these." And taking him by
the hand, she led him in; for she was the lady's maid. When the King's daughter saw the golden
cups, she was much pleased, and said, "They are so finely worked that I will purchase them
all." But the faithful John replied, "I am only the servant of a rich merchant; what I have
here is nothing in comparison to those which my master has in his ship, than which nothing
more delicate or costly has ever been worked in gold." Then the King's daughter wished to have
them all brought; but he said, "It would take many days, and so great is the quantity that
your palace has not halls enough in it to place them around." Then her curiosity and desire
were still more excited, and at last she said, "Take me to the ship; I will go myself and look
at your master's treasure."

The faithful John conducted her to the ship with great joy, and the King, when he beheld her,
saw that her beauty was still greater than the picture had represented, and thought nothing
else but that his heart would jump out of his mouth. Presently she stepped on board, and the
King conducted her below; but the faithful John remained on deck by the steersman, and told
him to unmoor the ship and put on all the sail he could, that it might fly as a bird through
the air. Meanwhile the King showed the Princess all the golden treasures--the dishes, cups,
bowls, the birds, the wild and wonderful beasts. Many hours passed away while she looked at
everything, and in her joy she did not remark that the ship sailed on and on. As soon as she
had looked at the last, and thanked the merchant, she wished to depart. But when she came on
deck, she perceived that they were upon the high sea, far from the shore, and were hastening
on with all sail. "Ah," she exclaimed in affright, "I am betrayed; I am carried off and taken
away in the power of a strange merchant. I would rather die!"

But the King, taking her by the hand, said, "I am not a merchant, but a king, thine equal in
birth. It is true that I have carried thee off; but that is because of my overwhelming love
for thee. Dost thou know that when I first saw the portrait of thy beauteous face I fell down
in a swoon before it?" When the King's daughter heard these words, she was reassured, and her
heart was inclined toward him, so that she willingly became his bride. While they thus went
on their voyage on the high sea, it happened that the faithful John, as he sat on the deck
of the ship, playing music, saw three crows in the air, who came flying toward them. He stopped
playing, and listened to what they were saying to each other, for he understood them perfectly.
The first one exclaimed, "There he is, carrying home the daughter of the King of the Golden
Palace." "But he is not home yet," replied the second. "But he has her," said the third; "she
is sitting by him in the ship." Then the first began again, and exclaimed, "What matters that?
When they go on shore a fox-colored horse will spring toward them, on which he will mount;
and as soon as he is on it, it will jump up with him into the air, so that he will never again
see his bride." The second one asked, "Is there no escape?" "Oh, yes, if another mounts behind
quickly, and takes out the firearms which are in the holster, and with them shoots the horse
dead, then the young King will be saved. But who knows that? And if any one does know it, and
tells him, such a one will be turned to stone from the toe to the knee." Then the second spoke
again, "I know still more: if the horse should be killed, the young King will not then retain
his bride; for when they come into the castle a beautiful bridal shirt will lie there upon
a dish, and seem to be woven of gold and silver, but it is nothing but sulphur and pitch, and
if he puts it on it will burn him to his marrow and bones." Then the third Crow asked, "Is
there no escape?" "Oh, yes," answered the second, "if some one takes up the shirt with his
glove on, and throws it into the fire, so that it is burnt, the young King will be saved. But
what does that signify? Whoever knows it, and tells him, will be turned to stone from his knee
to his heart." Then the third Crow spoke: "I know still more: even if the bridal shirt be consumed,
still the young King will not retain his bride. For if, after the wedding, a dance is held,
while the young Queen dances she will suddenly turn pale, and fall down as if dead; and if
some one does not raise her up, and take three drops of blood from her right breast and throw
them away, she will die. But whoever knows that, and tells it, will have his whole body turned
to stone, from the crown of his head to the toes of his feet."

After the crows had thus talked with one another, they flew away, and the trusty John, who
had perfectly understood all they had said, was from that time very quiet and sad; for if he
concealed from his master what he had heard, misfortune would happen to him, and if he told
him all he must give up his own life. But at last he thought, "I will save my master, even
if I destroy myself."

As soon as they came on shore, it happened just as the Crow had foretold, and an immense fox-red
horse sprang up. "Capital!" said the King, "this shall carry me to my castle," and he tried
to mount; but the faithful John came straight up, and swinging himself quickly on, drew the
firearms out of the holster and shot the horse dead. Then the other servants of the King, who
were not on good terms with the faithful John, exclaimed, "How shameful to kill the beautiful
creature, which might have borne the King to the castle!" But the King replied, "Be silent,
and let him go; he is my very faithful John--who knows the good he may have done?" Now they
went into the castle, and there stood a dish in the hall, and the splendid bridal shirt lay
in it, and seemed nothing else than gold and silver. The young King went up to it and wished
to take it up, but the faithful John pushed him away, and taking it up with his gloves on,
bore it quickly to the fire and let it burn. The other servants thereupon began to murmur,
saying, "See, now he is burning the King's bridal shirt!" But the young King replied, "Who
knows what good he has done? Let him alone--he is my faithful John."

Soon after, the wedding was celebrated, and a grand ball was given, and the bride began to
dance. So the faithful John paid great attention, and watched her countenance; all at once
she grew pale, and fell as if dead to the ground. Then he sprang up hastily, raised her up
and bore her to a chamber, where he laid her down, kneeled beside her, and drawing the three
drops of blood out of her right breast, threw them away. As soon as she breathed again, she
raised herself up; but the young King had witnessed everything, and not knowing why the faithful
John had done this was very angry, and called out, "Throw him into prison!" The next morning
the trusty John was brought up for trial, and led to the gallows; and as he stood upon them,
and was about to be executed, he said, "Every one condemned to die may once before his death
speak. Shall I also have that privilege?" "Yes," answered the King, "it shall be granted you."
Then the faithful John replied, "I have been unrighteously judged, and have always been true
to you"; and he narrated the conversation of the crows which he heard at sea; and how, in order
to save his master, he was obliged to do all he had done. Then the King cried out, "Oh, my
most trusty John, pardon, pardon; lead him away!" But the trusty John had fallen down at the
last word and was turned into stone. Once, when the Queen was in church, and the two children
at home playing by their father's side, he looked up at the stone statue full of sorrow, and
exclaimed with a sigh, "Ah, could I restore you to life, my faithful John!" At these words
the statue began to speak, saying, "Yes, you can make me alive again, if you will bestow on
me that which is dearest to you." The King replied, "All that I have in the world I will give
up for you." The statue spake again: "If you, with your own hand, cut off the heads of both
your children, and sprinkle me with their blood, I shall be brought to life again." The King
was terrified when he heard that he must himself kill his two dear children; but he remembered
his servant's great fidelity, and how the faithful John had died for him, and drawing his sword
he cut off the heads of both his children with his own hand. And as soon as he had sprinkled
the statue with blood, life came back to it, and the trusty John stood again alive and well
before him, and said, "Your faith shall not go unrewarded"; and taking the heads of the two
children he set them on again, and anointed their wounds with their blood, and thereupon they
healed again in a moment, and the children sprang away and played as if nothing had happened.

Now the King was full of happiness, and as soon as he saw the Queen coming, he hid the faithful
John and both the children in a great closet. As soon as she came in he said to her, "Have
you prayed in the church?" "Yes," she answered; "but I thought continually of the faithful
John, who has come to such misfortune through us." Then he replied, "My dear wife, we can restore
his life again to him, but it will cost us both our little sons, whom we must sacrifice." The
Queen became pale and was terrified at heart, but she said, "We are guilty of his life on account
of his great fidelity." Then he was very glad that she thought as he did, and going up to the
closet, he unlocked it, brought out the children and the faithful John, saying, "God be praised!
he is saved, and we have still our little sons"; and then he told her all that happened. Afterward
they lived happily together to the end of their days.

THE WATER OF LIFE

Once upon a time there was a King who was so ill that everybody despaired of his life, and
his three sons were very sorry, and went out into the palace gardens to weep. There they met
an old man, who asked the cause of their grief, and they told him their Father was so ill that
he must die, for nothing could save him. The old Man said, "I know a means of saving him: if
he drinks of the water of life it will restore him to health; but it is very difficult to find."

"I will soon find it," said the eldest Son, and, going to the sick King, he begged his permission
to set out in search of the water of life, which alone could save him. "No; the danger is too
great," said the King; "I prefer to die." Nevertheless, the Son begged and entreated so long
that the King consented, and the Prince went away, thinking in his own heart, "If I bring this
water I am the dearest to my Father, and I shall inherit his kingdom."

After he had ridden a long way he met a Dwarf on the road, who asked him, "Whither away so
quickly?"

"You stupid dandyprat," replied the Prince proudly, "why should I tell you that?" and he rode
off. But the little Man was angry and he wished an evil thing, so that, soon after, the Prince
came into a narrow mountain-pass, and the farther he rode the narrower it grew, till at last
it was so close that he could get no farther; but neither could he turn his horse round, nor
dismount, and he sat there like one amazed. Meanwhile the sick King waited a long while for
him, but he did not come; and the second Son asked leave to go too and seek the water, for
he thought to himself, "If my Brother is dead the kingdom comes to me." At first the King refused
to spare him, but he gave way, and the Prince set out on the same road as the elder one had
taken, and met also the same Dwarf, who stopped him and asked him, "Whither ride you so hastily?"
"Little dandyprat," replied the Prince, "what do you want to know for?" and he rode off without
looking round. The Dwarf, however, enchanted him, and it happened to him as it had to his Brother:
he came to a defile where he could move neither forward nor backward. Such is the fate of all
haughty people.

Now, when the second Son did not return, the youngest begged leave to go and fetch the water,
and the King was obliged at last to give his consent. When he met the Dwarf, and was asked
whither he was going so hurriedly, he stopped and replied, "I seek the water of life, for my
Father is sick unto death." "Do you know where to find it?" asked the Dwarf. "No," replied
the Prince. "Since you have behaved yourself as you ought," said the Dwarf, "and not haughtily
like your false Brothers, I will give you information and show you where you may obtain the
water of life. It flows from a fountain in the court of an enchanted castle, into which you
can never penetrate if I do not give you an iron rod and two loaves of bread. With the rod
knock thrice at the iron door of the castle, and it will spring open. Within lie two lions
with open jaws, but if you throw down to each a loaf of bread they will be quiet. Then hasten
and fetch some of the water of life before it strikes twelve, for then the door will shut again,
and you will be imprisoned."

The Prince thanked the Dwarf, and, taking the rod and bread, he set out on his journey, and
as he arrived at the castle he found it as the Dwarf had said. At the third knock the door
sprang open; and, when he had stilled the lions with the bread, he walked into a fine, large
hall, where sat several enchanted Princes, from whose fingers he drew off the rings, and he
also took away with him a sword and some bread which lay there. A little farther on he came
to a room wherein stood a beautiful maiden, who was so pleased to see him that she kissed him
and said he had freed her, and should have her whole kingdom, and if he came in another year
their wedding should be celebrated. Then she told him where the fountain of water of life was
placed, and he hastened away lest it should strike twelve ere he gained it. He came next into
a room where a fine, clean covered bed stood, and, being tired, he lay down to rest himself
a bit. But he went to sleep, and when he awoke it struck the quarter to twelve, and the sound
made him hurry to the fountain, from which he took some water in a cup which stood near. This
done, he hastened to the door, and was scarcely out before it struck twelve, and the door swung
to so heavily that it carried away a piece of his heel.

But he was very glad, in spite of this, that he had procured the water, and he journeyed homeward,
and passed again where the Dwarf stood. When the Dwarf saw the sword and bread which he had
brought away he declared he had done well, for with the sword he could destroy whole armies--but
the bread was worth nothing. Now, the Prince was not willing to return home to his Father without
his Brothers, and so he said to the Dwarf, "Dear Dwarf, can you tell me where my Brothers are?
They went out before me in search of the water of life, and did not return." "They are stuck
fast between two mountains," replied the Dwarf; "because they were so haughty, I enchanted
them there."

Then the Prince begged for their release, till at last the Dwarf brought them out; but he warned
the youngest to beware of them, for they had evil in their hearts. After this tale the three
Brothers rode away together, and soon entered a province where there were war and famine raging,
and the King thought he should perish, so great was his necessity. The youngest Prince went
to this King and gave him the bread, with which he fed and satisfied his whole people; and
then the Prince gave him the sword, wherewith he defeated and slew all his enemies, and regained
peace and quiet. This effected, the Prince took back the bread and sword, and rode on farther
with his Brothers, and by and by they came to two other provinces where also war and famine
were destroying the people. To each King the Prince lent his bread and sword, and so saved
three kingdoms. After, this they went on board a ship to pass over the sea which separated
them from home, and during the voyage the two elder Brothers said to one another, "Our Brother
has found the water of life and we have not; therefore our Father will give the kingdom which
belongs to us to him, and our fortune will be taken away." Indulging these thoughts they became
so envious that they consulted together how they should kill him, and one day, waiting till
he was fast asleep, they poured the water out of his cup and took it for themselves, while
they filled his up with bitter salt water. As soon as they arrived at home the youngest Brother
took his cup to the sick King, that he might drink out of it and regain his health. But scarcely
had he drunk a very little of the water when he became worse than before, for it was as bitter
as wormwood. While the King lay in this state, the two elder Princes came, and accused their
Brother of poisoning their Father; but they had brought the right water, and they handed it
to the King. Scarcely had he drunk a little out of the cup when the King felt his sickness
leave him, and soon he was as strong and healthy as in his young days. The two Brothers now
went to the youngest Prince, mocking him, and saying, "You certainly found the water of life;
but you had the trouble and we had the reward; you should have been more cautious and kept
your eyes open, for we took your cup while you were asleep on the sea; and, moreover, in a
year one of us intends to fetch your Princess. Beware, however, that you betray us not; the
King will not believe you, and if you say a single word your life will be lost; but if you
remain silent you are safe." The old King, nevertheless, was very angry with his youngest Son,
who had conspired, as he believed, against his life. He caused his court to be assembled, and
sentence was given to the effect that the Prince should be secretly shot; and once as he rode
out hunting, unsuspicious of any evil, the Huntsman was sent with him to perform the deed.
By and by, when they were alone in the wood, the Huntsman seemed so sad that the Prince asked
him what ailed him. The Huntsman replied, "I cannot and yet must tell you." "Tell me boldly
what it is," said the Prince, "I will forgive you." "Ah, it is no other than that I must shoot
you, for so has the King ordered me," said the Huntsman, with a deep sigh.

The Prince was frightened, and said, "Let me live, dear Huntsman, let me live! I will give
you my royal coat and you shall give me yours in exchange." To this the Huntsman readily assented,
for he felt unable to shoot the Prince, and after they had exchanged their clothing the Huntsman
returned home, and the Prince went deeper into the wood.

A short time afterward three wagons laden with gold and precious stones came to the King's
palace for his youngest Son. They were sent by the three Kings in token of gratitude for the
sword which had defeated their enemies, and the bread which had nourished their people. At
this arrival the old King said to himself, "Perhaps, after all, my Son was guiltless," and
he lamented to his courtiers that he had let his Son be killed. But the Huntsman cried out,
"He lives yet! for I could not find it in my heart to fulfil your commands"; and he told the
King how it had happened. The King felt as if a stone had been removed from his heart, and
he caused it to be proclaimed everywhere throughout his dominions that his Son might return
and would again be taken into favor.

Meanwhile the Princess had caused a road to be made up to her castle of pure shining gold,
and she told her attendants that whoever should ride straight up this road would be the right
person, and one whom they might admit into the castle; but, on the contrary, whoever should
ride up not on the road, but by the side, they were ordered on no account to admit, for he
was not the right person. When, therefore, the time came round which the Princess had mentioned
to the youngest Prince, the eldest Brother thought he would hasten to her castle and announce
himself as her deliverer, that he might gain her as a bride and the kingdom besides. So he
rode away, and when he came in front of the castle and saw the fine golden road he thought
it would be a shame to ride thereon, and so he turned to the left hand and rode up out of the
road. But as he came up to the door the guards told him he was not the right person, and he
must ride back again. Soon afterward the second Prince also set out, and he, likewise, when
he came to the golden road and his horse set its forefeet upon it, thought it would be a pity
to travel upon it, so he turned aside to the right hand and went up. When he came to the gate
the guards refused him admittance, and told him he was not the person expected, and so he had
to return homeward. The youngest Prince, who had all this time been wandering about in the
forest, had also remembered that the year was up, and soon after his Brothers' departure he
appeared before the castle and rode up straight on the golden road, for he was so deeply engaged
in thinking of his beloved Princess that he did not observe it. As soon as he arrived at the
door it was opened, and the Princess received him with joy, saving he was her deliverer and
the lord of her dominions. Soon after their wedding was celebrated, and when it was over the
Princess told her husband that his Father had forgiven him and desired to see him. Thereupon
he rode to the old King's palace, and told him how his Brothers had betrayed him while he slept,
and had sworn him to silence. When the King heard this he would have punished the false Brothers,
but they had prudently taken themselves off in a ship, and they never returned home afterward.

"But where are you?" "You little imp, how will you help us?" they said. "Come, then," they
said, "and we will see what you can do." "Will you be quiet," said the wolf; "you will waken
up the people!" "Where have you been, then?" The King and Queen for ever after lived in peace
and prosperity with their six brothers.

THE FROG PRINCE

In the olden time, when wishing was having, there lived a King, whose daughters were all beautiful;
but the youngest was so exceedingly beautiful that the Sun himself, although he saw her very,
very often, was delighted every time she came out into the sunshine.

Near the castle of this King was a large and gloomy forest, where in the midst stood an old
lime-tree, beneath whose branches splashed a little fountain; so, whenever it was very hot,
the King's youngest daughter ran off into this wood, and sat down by the side of the fountain;
and, when she felt dull, would often divert herself by throwing a golden ball up into the air
and catching it again. And this was her favorite amusement.

Now, one day it happened that this golden ball, when the King's daughter threw it into the
air, did not fall down into her hand, but on to the grass; and then it rolled right into the
fountain. The King's daughter followed the ball with her eyes, but it disappeared beneath the
water, which was so deep that she could not see to the bottom. Then she began to lament, and
to cry more loudly and more loudly; and, as she cried, a voice called out, "Why weepest thou,
O King's daughter? thy tears would melt even a stone to pity." I am weeping for my golden ball
which bounced away from me into the water."

"Be quiet, and do not cry," replied the Frog; "I can give thee good assistance. But what wilt
thou give me if I succeed in fetching thy plaything up again?"

"What would you like, dear Frog?" said she. "My dresses, my pearls and jewels, or the golden
crown which I wear?"

"Oh, I will promise you all," said she, "if you will only get me my golden ball." But she thought
to herself, "What is the silly Frog chattering about? Let him stay in the water with his equals;
he cannot enter into society." Then the Frog, as soon as he had received her promise, drew
his head under the water and dived down. Presently he swam up again with the golden ball in
his mouth, and threw it on to the grass. The King's daughter was full of joy when she again
saw her beautiful plaything; and, taking it up, she ran off immediately. "Stop! stop!" cried
the Frog; "take me with thee. I cannot run as thou canst."

But this croaking was of no avail; although it was loud enough, the King's daughter did not
hear it, but, hastening home, soon forgot the poor Frog, who was obliged to leap back into
the fountain.

The next day, when the King's daughter was sitting at table with her father and all his courtiers,
and was eating from her own little golden plate, something was heard coming up the marble stairs,
splish-splash, splish-splash; and when it arrived at the top, it knocked at the door, and a
voice said--

"Open the door, thou youngest daughter of the King!"

So she arose and went to see who it was that called to her; but when she opened the door and
caught sight of the Frog, she shut it again very quickly and with great passion, and sat down
at the table, looking exceedingly pale.

But the King perceived that her heart was beating violently, and asked her whether it were
a giant who had come to fetch her away who stood at the door. "Oh, no!" answered she; "it is
no giant, but an ugly Frog."

"What does the Frog want with you?" said the King.

"Oh, dear father, yesterday when I was playing by the fountain, my golden ball fell into the
water, and this Frog fetched it up again because I cried so much: but first, I must tell you,
he pressed me so much, that I promised him he should be my companion. I never thought that
he could come out of the water, but somehow he has managed to jump out, and now he wants to
come in here."

At that moment there was another knock, and a voice said--

  "King's daughter, youngest,
    Open the door.
  Hast thou forgotten
    Thy promises made
  At the fountain so clear
    'Neath the lime-tree's shade?
  King's daughter, youngest.
    Open the door."

Then the King said, "What you have promised, that you must perform; go and let him in." So
the King's daughter went and opened the door, and the Frog hopped in after her right up to
her chair: and as soon as she was seated, he said, "Lift me up;" but she hesitated so long
that the King had to order her to obey. And as soon as the Frog sat on the chair he jumped
on to the table and said, "Now push thy plate near me, that we may eat together." And she did
so, but as every one noticed, very unwillingly. The Frog seemed to relish his dinner very much,
but every bit that the King's daughter ate nearly choked her, till at last the Frog said, "I
have satisfied my hunger, and feel very tired; wilt thou carry me upstairs now into thy chamber,
and make thy bed ready that we may sleep together?" At this speech the King's daughter began
to cry, for she was afraid of the cold Frog, and dared not touch him; and besides, he actually
wanted to sleep in her own beautiful, clean bed!

But her tears only made the King very angry, and he said, "He who helped you in the time of
your trouble must not now be despised!" So she took the Frog up with two fingers, and put him
into a corner of her chamber. But as she lay in her bed, he crept up to it, and said, "I am
so very tired that I shall sleep well; do take me up, or I will tell thy father." This speech
put the King's daughter into a terrible passion, and catching the Frog up, she threw him with
all her strength against the wall, saying "Now will you be quiet, you ugly Frog!"

But as he fell he was changed from a Frog into a handsome Prince with beautiful eyes, who after
a little while became her dear companion and betrothed. One morning, Henry, trusted servant
of the Prince, came for them with a carriage. When his master was changed into a frog, trusty
Henry had grieved so much that he had bound three iron bands around his heart, for fear it
should break with grief and sorrow. The faithful Henry (who was also the trusty Henry) helped
in the bride and bridegroom, and placed himself in the seat behind, full of joy at his master's
release. They had not proceeded far when the Prince heard a crack as if something had broken
behind the carriage; so he put his head out of the window and asked trusty Henry what was broken,
and faithful Henry answered, "It was not the carriage, my master, but an iron band which I
bound around my heart when it was in such grief because you were changed into a frog."

Twice afterwards on the journey there was the same noise, and each time the Prince thought
that it was some part of the carriage that had given way; but it was only the breaking of the
bands which bound the heart of the trusty Henry (who was also the faithful Henry), and who
was thenceforward free and happy.

THE TRAVELS OF TOM THUMB

There lived a tailor who had only one son, and he was extremely small, not any larger than
your thumb, and so was called Tom Thumb.

However, he was a courageous little fellow, and he told his father, "Father, I am determined
to go into the world to seek my fortune."

"Very well, my son," answered the old man, and taking a big darning needle, he made a top to
it of sealing wax, and gave it to Tom Thumb, saying:

"There is a sword for you to use to defend yourself on your journeyings."

Then the little fellow, desiring to dine once more with his parents, popped into the kitchen
to find out what his mother was preparing for his last dinner at home. All the dishes were
ready to be taken in, and they were standing upon the hearth.

"What is it you have for dinner, dear mother?" he inquired.

"You can look for yourself," she replied.

Then Tom sprang up on to the hob, and peeped into all the dishes, but over one he leant so
far, that he was carried up by the steam through the chimney, and then for some distance he
floated on the smoke, but after a while he fell upon the ground once more.

Now, at last, Tom Thumb was really out in the wide world, and he went on cheerily, and after
a time was engaged by a master tailor; but here the food was not so good as his mother's, and
it was not to his taste.

So he said, "Mistress, if you will not give me better things to eat, I shall chalk upon your
door, 'Too many potatoes, and not enough meat. Good-bye, potato-mill.'"

"I should like to know what you want, you little grasshopper!" cried the woman very angrily,
and she seized a shred of cloth to strike him; however, the tiny tailor popped under a thimble,
and from it he peeped, putting out his tongue at the mistress.

So she took up the thimble, meaning to catch him, but Tom Thumb hid himself amongst the shreds
of cloth, and when she began to search through those, he slipped into a crack in the table,
but put out his head to laugh at her; so she tried again to hit him with the shred, but did
not succeed in doing so, for he slipped through the crack into the table drawer.

At last, though, he was caught, and driven out of the house.

So the little fellow continued his travels, and presently entering a thick forest, he encountered
a company of robbers who were plotting to steal the king's treasure.

As soon as they saw the little tailor, they said to themselves, "A little fellow like this
could creep through a keyhole, and aid us greatly." So one called out--

"Hullo, little man, will you come with us to the king's treasury? Certainly a Goliath like
you could creep in with ease, and throw out the coins to us."

After considering awhile, Tom Thumb consented, and accompanied them to the king's treasury.

From top to bottom they inspected the door to discover a crack large enough for him to get
through, and soon found one. He was for going in directly, but one of the sentinels happening
to catch sight of him, exclaimed: "Here is indeed an ugly spider; I will crush it with my foot."

"Leave the poor creature alone," the other said; "it has not done you any harm."

So Tom Thumb slipped through the crack, and made his way to the treasury. Then he opened the
window, and cast out the coins to the robbers who were waiting below. While the little tailor
was engaged in this exciting employment, he heard the king coming to inspect his treasure,
so as quickly as possible he crept out of sight. The king noticed that his treasure had been
disarranged, and soon observed that coins were missing: but he was utterly unable to think
how they could have been stolen, for the locks and bolts had not been tampered with, and everything
was well fastened.

On going from the treasury, he warned the two sentinels, saying--

"Be on the watch, some one is after the money," and quite soon, on Tom Thumb setting to work
again, they heard very clearly the coins ringing, chink, chank, as they struck one against
the other.

As quickly as possible they unfastened the building and went in, hoping to take the thief.

But Tom Thumb was too quick for them, he sprang into a corner, and hiding himself behind a
coin, so that nothing of him was visible, he made fun of the sentinels; crying "I am here!"
Then when the men hurried to the spot where the voice came from, he was no longer there, but
from a different place cried out: "Ha, Ha! here I am!"

So the sentinels kept jumping about, but so cleverly did Tom move from one spot to another,
that they were obliged to run around the whole time, hoping to find somebody, until at length,
quite tired out, they went off.

Then Tomb Thumb went on with his work, and one after another he threw all the coins out of
the window, but the very last he sounded and rang with all his might and springing nimbly upon
it, so flew through the window.

The robbers were loud in their praises.

"Indeed you are a brave fellow," they said, "will you be our captain?"

Tom Thumb, thanking them, declined this honor, for he was anxious to see more of the world.
Then the booty was apportioned out, but only a ducat was given to the little tailor, for that
was as much as he could carry.

So Tom girded on his sword again, and bidding farewell to the robbers, continued his travels.

He tried to get work under various masters, but they would have nothing to do with him, so
after a while he took service at an inn. But the maids there disliked him, for he was about
everywhere, and saw all that went on, without being seen himself; and he told their mistress
of their dishonest ways, of what was taken off the plates, and from out the cellars.

So they threatened they would drown him, if they caught him, and determined to do him some
harm. Then, one day, a maid mowing in the garden saw Tom Thumb running in and out between the
blades of grass, so she cut the grass, in great haste, just where he chanced to be, tied it
all in a bundle, and, without anyone knowing, threw it to the cows.

Then one big black cow took up a mouthful of grass directly, with Tom in it, and swallowed
it down; without doing him any damage, however.

But Tom did not approve of his position, for it was pitch dark down there, with no light burning.

When milking time came, he shouted--

  "Drip, drap, drop,
  Will the milking soon stop?"

but the sound of the milk trickling into the pail prevented his voice being heard.

Not long afterwards the master came into the shed, and said:

"I will have that cow killed to-morrow."

This put Tom Thumb into a great fright, and he called out loudly:

"Please let me out, here I am inside."

This the master heard plainly enough, but could not make out where the voice came from.

"Where are you?" he inquired.

"In the black cow," was the reply.

However, the master could not understand what was meant, and so went away.

The following morning the cow was killed, but fortunately in the cutting up the knife did not
touch Tom Thumb, who was put aside with the meat that was to be made into sausages.

When the butcher began chopping, he cried as loudly as he could--

"Don't chop far, I am down beneath," but the chopper made so much noise, that he attracted
no attention.

It was indeed a terrible situation for poor Tom. But being in danger brightens one's wits,
and he sprang so nimbly, this way and that, keeping clear of the chopper, that not a blow struck
him, and he did not get even a scratch.

However, he could not escape, there was no help for it, he was forced into a skin with the
sausage meat, so was compelled to make himself as comfortable as might be. It was very close
quarters, and besides that, the sausages were suspended to smoke in the chimney, which was
by no means entertaining, and the time passed slowly.

When winter came, he was taken down for a guest's meal, and while the hostess was slicing the
sausage he had to be on his guard, lest if he stretched out his head it might be cut off.

Watching his opportunity, at last he was able to jump out of the sausage, and right glad was
he to be once again in the company of his fellow-men.

It was not very long, however, that he stayed in this house, where he had been met by so many
misfortunes, and again he set forth on his travels, rejoicing in his freedom, but this did
not long continue.

Swiftly running across the field came a fox, who, in an instant, had snapped up poor little Tom.

"Oh, Mr. Fox," called out the little tailor, "it is I who am in your throat; please let me out."

"Certainly," answered Reynard, "you are not a bit better than nothing at all, you don't in
the least satisfy me; make me a promise, that I shall have the hens in your father's yard,
and you shall regain your liberty."

"Willingly, you shall have all the hens; I make you a faithful promise," responded Tom Thumb.

So the fox coughed and set him free, and himself carried Tom home.

Then when the father had his dear little son once more he gave the fox all his hens, with the
greatest of pleasure.

"Here, father, I am bringing you a golden coin from my travels," said the little fellow, and
he brought out the ducat the thieves had apportioned to him.

"But how was it that the fox was given all the poor little hens?"

"Foolish little one, don't you think your father would rather have you, than all the hens he
ever had in his yard?"

THE THREE LITTLE MEN IN THE WOOD

Once upon a time there lived a man, whose wife had died; and a woman, also, who had lost her
husband: and this man and this woman had each a daughter. These two maidens were friendly with
each other, and used to walk together, and one day they came by the widow's house. Marriage
is a comfort, but it is also a torment." At last, as he could come to no conclusion, he drew
off his boot and said: "Take this boot, which has a hole in the sole, and go with it out of
doors and hang it on the great nail and then pour water into it. If it holds the water, I will
again take a wife; but if it runs through, I will not have her." The girl did as he bid her,
but the water drew the hole together and the boot became full to overflowing. So she told her
father how it had happened, and he, getting up, saw it was quite true; and going to the widow
he settled the matter, and the wedding was celebrated.

The next morning, when the two girls arose, milk to wash in and wine to drink were set for
the man's daughter, but only water, both for washing and drinking, for the woman's daughter.
She was envious, too, because her step-daughter was beautiful and lovely, and her own daughter
was ugly and hateful.

Once, in the winter-time, when the river was frozen as hard as a stone, and hill and valley
were covered with snow, the woman made a cloak of paper, and called the maiden to her and said,
"Put on this cloak, and go away into the wood to fetch me a little basketful of strawberries,
for I have a wish for some."

"Mercy on us!" said the maiden, "in winter there are no strawberries growing; the ground is
frozen, and the snow, too, has covered everything. And why must I go in that paper cloak? It
is so cold out of doors that it freezes one's breath even, and if the wind does not blow off
this cloak, the thorns will tear it from my body."

"Will you dare to contradict me?" said the step-mother. "Make haste off, and let me not see
you again until you have found me a basket of strawberries." Then she gave her a small piece
of dry bread, saying, "On that you must subsist the whole day." But she thought--out of doors
she will be frozen and starved, so that my eyes will never see her again!

So the girl did as she was told, and put on the paper cloak, and went away with the basket.
Far and near there was nothing but snow, and not a green blade was to be seen. When she came
to the forest she discovered a little cottage, out of which three little Dwarfs were peeping.
The girl wished them good morning, and knocked gently at the door. They called her in, and
entering the room, she sat down on a bench by the fire to warm herself, and eat her breakfast.
The Dwarfs called out, "Give us some of it!" "Willingly," she replied, and, dividing her bread
in two, she gave them half. They asked, "What do you here in the forest, in the winter-time,
in this thin cloak?" But when she was gone out of doors the three Dwarfs said one to another,
"What shall we give her, because she is so gentle and good, and has shared her bread with us?"
Then said the first, "I grant to her that she shall become more beautiful every day." The second
said, "I grant that a piece of gold shall fall out of her mouth for every word she speaks."
The third said, "I grant that a King shall come and make her his bride."

Meanwhile, the girl had done as the Dwarf had bidden her, and had swept away the snow from
behind the house. And what do you think she found there? Actually, ripe strawberries! which
came quite red and sweet up under the snow. So filling her basket in great glee, she thanked
the little men and gave them each her hand, and then ran home to take her step-mother what
she wished for.

"Just see her arrogance," said the step-sister, "to throw away money in that way!" but in her
heart she was jealous, and wished to go into the forest, too, to seek strawberries. Her mother
said, "No, my dear daughter; it is too cold, you will be frozen!" but as her girl let her have
no peace, she at last consented, and made her a beautiful fur cloak to put on; she also gave
her buttered bread and cooked meat to eat on her way.

The girl went into the forest and came straight to the little cottage. The three Dwarfs were
peeping out again, but she did not greet them; and, stumbling on without looking at them, or
speaking, she entered the room, and, seating herself by the fire, began to eat the bread and
butter and meat. "Give us some of that," exclaimed the Dwarfs; but she answered, "I have not
got enough for myself, so how can I give any away?" When she had finished they said, "You have
a broom there, go and sweep the back door clean." "Oh, sweep it yourself," she replied; "I
am not your servant." When she saw that they would not give her anything she went out at the
door, and the three Dwarfs said to each other, "What shall we give her? She is so ill-behaved,
and has such a bad and envious disposition, that nobody can wish well to her." The first said,
"I grant that she becomes more ugly every day." The second said, "I grant that at every word
she speaks a toad shall spring out of her mouth." The third said, "I grant that she shall die
a miserable death." Meanwhile the girl had been looking for strawberries out of doors, but
as she could find none she went home very peevish. When she opened her mouth to tell her mother
what had happened to her in the forest, a toad jumped out of her mouth at each word, so that
every one fled away from her in horror.

The step-mother was now still more vexed, and was always thinking how she could do the most
harm to her husband's daughter, who every day became more beautiful. At last she took a kettle,
set it on the fire, and boiled a net therein. When it was sodden she hung it on the shoulder
of the poor girl, and gave her an axe, that she might go upon the frozen pond and cut a hole
in the ice to drag the net. She obeyed, and went away and cut an ice-hole; and while she was
cutting, an elegant carriage came by, in which the King sat. The carriage stopped, and the
King asked, "My child, who are you? and what do you here?" "I am a poor girl, and am dragging
a net," said she. Then the King pitied her, and saw how beautiful she was, and said, "Will
you go with me?" "Yes, indeed, with all my heart," she replied, for she was glad to get out
of the sight of her mother and sister. But one day when the King had gone out, and no one was
present, this bad woman seized the Queen by the head, and her daughter caught hold of her feet,
and raising her out of bed, they threw her out of the window into the river which ran past.
Then, laying her ugly daughter in the bed, the old woman covered her up, even over her head;
and when the King came back he wished to speak to his wife, but the old woman exclaimed, "Softly!
softly! do not go near her; she is lying in a beautiful sleep, and must be kept quiet to-day."
The King, not thinking of an evil design, came again the next morning the first thing; and
when he spoke to his wife, and she answered, a toad sprang out of her mouth at every word,
as a piece of gold had done before. So he asked what had happened, and the old woman said,
"That is produced by her weakness, she will soon lose it again."

But in the night the kitchen-boy saw a Duck swimming through the brook, and the Duck asked:

  "King, King, what are you doing?
  Are you sleeping, or are you waking?"

And as he gave no answer, the Duck said:

  "What are my guests a-doing?"

Then the boy answered:

  "They all sleep sound."

And she asked him:

  "How fares my child?"

And he replied:

  "In his cradle he sleeps."

Then she came up in the form of the Queen to the cradle, and gave the child drink, shook up
his bed, and covered him up, and then swam away again as a duck through the brook. The second
night she came again; and on the third she said to the kitchen-boy, "Go and tell the King to
take his sword, and swing it thrice over me, on the threshold." Then the boy ran and told the
King, who came with his sword, and swung it thrice over the Duck; and at the third time his
bride stood before him, bright, living, and healthful, as she had been before.

Now the King was in great happiness, but he hid the Queen in a chamber until the Sunday when
the child was to be christened; and when all was finished he asked, "What ought to be done
to one who takes another out of a bed and throws her into the river?" "Nothing could be more
proper," said the old woman, "than to put such a one into a cask, stuck round with nails, and
to roll it down the hill into the water." Then the King said, "You have spoken your own sentence";
and ordering a cask to be fetched, he caused the old woman and her daughter to be put into
it, and the bottom nailed up. Then the cask was rolled down the hill until it fell into the water.

RUMPELSTILTSKIN

There was once a poor Miller who had a beautiful daughter, and one day, having to go to speak
with the King, he said, in order to make himself appear of consequence, that he had a daughter
who could spin straw into gold. The King was very fond of gold, and thought to himself, "That
is an art which would please me very well"; and so he said to the Miller, "If your daughter
is so very clever, bring her to the castle in the morning, and I will put her to the proof."

As soon as she arrived the King led her into a chamber which was full of straw; and, giving
her a wheel and a reel, he said, "Now set yourself to work, and if you have not spun this straw
into gold by an early hour to-morrow, you must die." With these words he shut the room door,
and left the maiden alone.

There she sat for a long time, thinking how to save her life; for she understood nothing of
the art whereby straw might be spun into gold; and her perplexity increased more and more,
till at last she began to weep. All at once the door opened, and in stepped a little Man, who
said, "Good evening, fair maiden; why do you weep so sore?" "Ah," she replied, "I must spin
this straw into gold, and I am sure I do not know how."

The little Man asked, "What will you give me if I spin it for you?"

"My necklace," said the maiden.

The Dwarf took it, placed himself in front of the wheel, and whirr, whirr, whirr, three times
round, and the bobbin was full. Then he set up another, and whir, whir, whir, thrice round
again, and a second bobbin was full; and so he went all night long, until all the straw was
spun, and the bobbins were full of gold. At sunrise the King came, very much astonished to
see the gold; the sight of which gladdened him, but did not make his heart less covetous. He
caused the maiden to be led into another room, still larger, full of straw; and then he bade
her spin it into gold during the night if she valued her life. The maiden was again quite at
a loss what to do; but while she cried the door opened suddenly, as before, and the Dwarf appeared
and asked her what she would give him in return for his assistance. "The ring off my finger,"
she replied. The little Man took the ring and began to spin at once, and by morning all the
straw was changed to glistening gold. The King was rejoiced above measure at the sight of this,
but still he was not satisfied, but, leading the maiden into another still larger room, full
of straw as the others, he said, "This you must spin during the night; but if you accomplish
it you shall be my bride." "For," thought he to himself, "a richer wife thou canst not have
in all the world."

When the maiden was left alone, the Dwarf again appeared and asked, for the third time, "What
will you give me to do this for you?"

"I have nothing left that I can give you," replied the maiden.

"Then promise me your first-born child if you become Queen," said he.

The Miller's daughter thought, "Who can tell if that will ever happen?" and, ignorant how else
to help herself out of her trouble, she promised the Dwarf what he desired; and he immediately
set about and finished the spinning. When morning came, and the King found all he had wished
for done, he celebrated his wedding, and the Miller's fair daughter became Queen.

The gay times she had at the King's Court caused her to forget that she had made a very foolish
promise.

About a year after the marriage, when she had ceased to think about the little Dwarf, she brought
a fine child into the world; and, suddenly, soon after its birth, the very man appeared and
demanded what she had promised. The frightened Queen offered him all the riches of the kingdom
if he would leave her her child; but the Dwarf answered, "No; something human is dearer to
me than all the wealth of the world."

The Queen began to weep and groan so much that the Dwarf pitied her, and said, "I will leave
you three days to consider; if you in that time discover my name you shall keep your child."

All night long the Queen racked her brains for all the names she could think of, and sent a
messenger through the country to collect far and wide any new names. The following morning
came the Dwarf, and she began with "Caspar," "Melchior," "Balthassar," and all the odd names
she knew; but at each the little Man exclaimed, "That is not my name." The second day the Queen
inquired of all her people for uncommon and curious names, and called the Dwarf "Ribs-of-Beef,"
"Sheep-shank," "Whalebone," but at each he said, "This is not my name."

When the Queen heard this she was very glad, for now she knew the name; and soon after came
the Dwarf, and asked, "Now, my lady Queen, what is my name?"

First she said, "Are you called Conrade?" "No."

"Are you called Hal?" "No."

"Are you called Rumpelstiltskin?"

"A witch has told you! a witch has told you!" shrieked the little Man, and stamped his right
foot so hard in the ground with rage that he could not draw it out again. Then he took hold
of his left leg with both his hands, and pulled away so hard that his right came off in the
struggle, and he hopped away howling terribly. And from that day to this the Queen has heard
no more of her troublesome visitor.

LITTLE ONE-EYE, TWO-EYES AND THREE-EYES

Once upon a time there was a Woman, who had three daughters, the eldest of whom was named One-Eye,
because she had but a single eye, and that placed in the middle of her forehead; the second
was called Two-Eyes, because she was like other mortals; and the third, Three-Eyes, because
she had three eyes, and one of them in the centre of her forehead, like her eldest sister.
But, because her second sister had nothing out of the common in her appearance, she was looked
down upon by her sisters, and despised by her mother. "You are no better than common folk,"
they would say to her; "you do not belong to us"; and then they would push her about, give
her coarse clothing, and nothing to eat but their leavings, besides numerous other insults
as occasion offered.

Once it happened that Two-Eyes had to go into the forest to tend the goat; and she went very
hungry, because her sisters had given her very little to eat that morning. She sat down upon
a hillock, and cried so much that her tears flowed almost like rivers out of her eyes! By and
by she looked up and saw a Woman standing by, who asked, "Why are you weeping, Two-Eyes?" "Because
I have two eyes like ordinary people," replied the maiden, "and therefore my mother and sisters
dislike me, push me into corners, throw me their old clothes, and give me nothing to eat but
what they leave. To-day they have given me so little that I am still hungry." "Dry your eyes,
then, now," said the wise Woman; "I will tell you something which shall prevent you from being
hungry again. You must say to your goat:

  "'Little kid, milk
  Table, appear!'

"and immediately a nicely filled table will stand before you, with delicate food upon it, of
which you can eat as much as you please. And when you are satisfied, and have done with the
table, you must say:

  'Little kid, milk
  Table, depart!'

"and it will disappear directly."

With these words the wise Woman went away, and little Two-Eyes thought to herself she would
try at once if what the Woman said were true, for she felt very hungry indeed.

  "Little kid, milk
  Table, appear!"

said the maiden, and immediately a table covered with a white cloth stood before her, with
a knife and fork, and silver spoon; and the most delicate dishes were ranged in order upon
it, and everything as warm as if they had been just taken away from the fire. Two-Eyes said
a short grace, and then began to eat; and when she had finished she pronounced the words which
the wise Woman had told her:

  "Little kid, milk
  Table, depart!"

and directly the table and all that was on it quickly disappeared. "This is capital housekeeping,"
said the maiden, in high glee; and at evening she went home with her goat, and found an earthen
dish which her sisters had left her filled with their leavings. She did not touch it; and the
next morning she went off again without taking the meagre breakfast which was left out for
her. The first and second time she did this the sisters thought nothing of it; but when she
did the same the third morning their attention was roused, and they said, "All is not right
with Two-Eyes, for she has left her meals twice, and has touched nothing of what was left for
her; she must have found some other way of living." So they determined that One-Eye should
go with the maiden when she drove the goat to the meadow and pay attention to what passed,
and observe whether any one brought her to eat or to drink.

When Two-Eyes, therefore, was about to set off, One-Eye told her she was going with her to
see whether she took proper care of the goat and fed her sufficiently.

  "Are you awake or asleep, One-Eye?
  Are you awake or asleep?"

sang Two-Eyes, until her sister really went to sleep. As soon as she was quite sound, the maiden
had her table out, and ate and drank all she needed; and by the time One-Eye woke again the
table had disappeared, and the maiden said to her sister, "Come, we will go home now; while
you have been sleeping the goat might have run about all over the world." So they went home,
and after Two-Eyes had left her meal untouched, the mother inquired of One-Eye what she had
seen, and she was obliged to confess that she had been asleep.

The following morning the mother told Three-Eyes that she must go out and watch Two-Eyes, and
see who brought her food, for it was certain that some one must. So Three-Eyes told her sister
that she was going to accompany her that morning to see if she took care of the goat and fed
her well; but Two-Eyes saw through her design, and drove the goat again to the best feeding-place.
Then she asked her sister to sit down and she would sing to her, and Three-Eyes did so, for
she was very tired with her long walk in the heat of the sun. Three-Eyes, however, cunningly
shut it too, and feigned to be asleep, while she was really watching; and soon Two-Eyes, thinking
all safe, repeated the words:

  "Little kid, milk
  Table, appear!"

and as soon as she was satisfied she said the old words:

  "Little kid, milk
  Table, depart!"

Three-Eyes watched all these proceedings; and presently Two-Eyes came and awoke her, saying,
"Ah, sister! you are a good watcher, but come, let us go home now." When they reached home
Two-Eyes again ate nothing; and her sister told her mother she knew now why the haughty hussy
would not eat their victuals. "When she is out in the meadow," said her sister, "she says:

  "'Little kid, milk
  Table, appear!'

"and, directly, a table comes up laid out with meat and wine, and everything of the best, much
better than we have; and as soon as she has had enough she says:

  "'Little kid, milk
  Table, depart!'

"and all goes away directly, as I clearly saw. Certainly she did put to sleep two of my eyes,
but the one in the middle of my forehead luckily kept awake!"

"Will you have better things than we?" cried the envious mother; "then you shall lose the chance";
and so saying, she took a carving-knife and killed the goat dead.

As soon as Two-Eyes saw this she went out, very sorrowful, to the old spot and sat down where
she had sat before to weep bitterly. All at once the wise Woman stood in front of her again,
and asked why she was crying. "Must I not cry," replied she, "when the goat which used to furnish
me every day with a dinner, according to your promise, has been killed by my mother, and I
am again suffering hunger and thirst?" "Two-Eyes," said the wise Woman, "I will give you a
piece of advice. Beg your sisters to give you the entrails of the goat, and bury them in the
earth before the house door, and your fortune will be made." The sisters laughed and readily
gave them to her; and she buried them secretly before the threshold of the door, as the wise
Woman had bidden her.

The following morning they found in front of the house a wonderfully beautiful tree, with leaves
of silver and fruits of gold hanging from the boughs, than which nothing more splendid could
be seen in the world. The two elder sisters were quite ignorant how the tree came where it
stood; but Two-Eyes perceived that it was produced by the goat's entrails, for it stood on
the exact spot where she had buried them. As soon as the mother saw it she told One-Eye to
break off some of the fruit. One-Eye went up to the tree, and pulled a bough toward her, to
pluck off the fruit; but the bough flew back again directly out of her hands; and so it did
every time she took hold of it, till she was forced to give up, for she could not obtain a
single golden apple in spite of all her endeavors. Then the mother said to Three-Eyes, "Do
you climb up, for you can see better with your three eyes than your sister with her one." Three-Eyes,
however, was not more fortunate than her sister, for the golden apples flew back as soon as
she touched them. At last the mother got so impatient that she climbed the tree herself; but
she met with no more success than either of her daughters, and grasped the air only when she
thought she had the fruit. Two-Eyes now thought she would try, and said to her sisters, "Let
me get up, perhaps I may be successful." "Oh, you are very likely indeed," said they, "with
your two eyes: you will see well, no doubt!" So Two-Eyes climbed the tree, and directly she
touched the boughs the golden apples fell into her hands, so that she plucked them as fast
as she could, and filled her apron before she went down. Her mother took them of her, but returned
her no thanks; and the two sisters, instead of treating Two-Eyes better than they had done,
were only the more envious of her, because she alone could gather the fruit--in fact, they
treated her worse.

One morning, not long after the springing up of the apple-tree, the three sisters were all
standing together beneath it, when in the distance a young Knight was seen riding toward them.
"Make haste, Two-Eyes!" exclaimed the two elder sisters; "make haste, and creep out of our
way, that we may not be ashamed of you"; and so saying, they put over her in great haste an
empty cask which stood near, and which covered the golden apples as well, which she had just
been plucking. Soon the Knight came up to the tree, and the sisters saw he was a very handsome
man, for he stopped to admire the fine silver leaves and golden fruit, and presently asked
to whom the tree belonged, for he should like to have a branch off it. One-Eye and Three-Eyes
replied that the tree belonged to them; and they tried to pluck a branch off for the Knight.
They had their trouble for nothing, however, for the boughs and fruit flew back as soon as
they touched them. "This is very wonderful." cried the Knight, "that this tree should belong
to you, and yet you cannot pluck the fruit!" The sisters, however, maintained that it was theirs;
but while they spoke Two-Eyes rolled a golden apple from underneath the cask, so that it travelled
to the feet of the Knight, for she was angry, because her sisters had not spoken the truth.
When he saw the apple he was astonished, and asked where it came from; and One-Eye and Three-Eyes
said they had another sister, but they dared not let her be seen, because she had only two
eyes, like common folk! The Knight, however, would see her, and called, "Two-Eyes, come here!"
and soon she made her appearance from under the cask. The Knight was bewildered at her great
beauty, and said, "You, Two-Eyes, can surely break off a bough of this tree for me?" "What
can I give you in return, Two-Eyes?" asked the Knight. "Alas! if you will take me with you
I shall be happy, for now I suffer hunger and thirst, and am in trouble and grief from early
morning to late evening; take me, and save me!" Thereupon the Knight raised Two-Eyes upon his
saddle, and took her home to his father's castle. There he gave her beautiful clothes, and
all she wished for to eat or to drink; and afterward, because his love for her had become so
great, he married her, and a very happy wedding they had.

Her two sisters, meanwhile, were very jealous when Two-Eyes was carried off by the Knight;
but they consoled themselves by saying, "The wonderful tree remains still for us; and even
if we cannot get at the fruit, everybody that passes will stop to look at it, and then come
and praise it to us. Who knows where our wheat may bloom?" The morning after this speech, however,
the tree disappeared, and with it all their hopes; but when Two-Eyes that same day looked out
of her chamber window, behold, the tree stood before it, and there remained!

For a long time after this occurrence Two-Eyes lived in the enjoyment of the greatest happiness;
and one morning two poor women came to the palace and begged an alms. Two-Eyes, after looking
narrowly at their faces, recognized her two sisters, One-Eye and Three-Eyes, who had come to
such great poverty that they were forced to wander about, begging their bread from day to day.
Two-Eyes, however, bade them welcome, invited them in, and took care of them, till they both
repented of their evil which they had done to their sister in the days of their childhood.

