Certainly not the least to be deprecated are the "ladies' present dresses;" the extravagances
of which are not confined to the head, but are exhibited also all down the arm (not unaptly
likened to series of balloons) and are also, in most instances, by some unusual "bustling,"
equally absurd. I wonder what would be said by Mr. Addison, were he to witness the present
fashions. He would certainly think that all the care he took to keep the fair sex in order
was in vain; and though enormous head dresses were not in vogue in his time, he seems to have
anticipated that they would be, by his recommending the perusal of his 98th paper of the "Spectator"
to his female readers by way of prevention, but which, alas! has not been studied with the
attention it merits.

Womankind, Mr. Editor, I do not believe, are naturally vain; but as they were made for us and
for our comfort, it is natural that they should endeavour to gain our esteem; but they carry
their endeavours too far; by straining to excite attention they overstep the mark, become vain
and coquetish, one strives to outdo another, others say they must do as other women do, and
they thus make themselves ridiculous unknowingly. It is really painful to see a woman of sense
and education become a slave to the tyranny of fashion--and injuring both body and mind--and
it is, I think, an insult to a man of understanding to endeavour to excite his attention by
any such peculiarities.

Having now generally stated the subject that I should wish to be taken up by abler hands than
mine, I will conclude by recommending all your town-bred, and coquetish ladies to study and
restudy a letter signed "Mary Home," in No. 254 of the excellent work before alluded to, "The
Spectator." --H. M--.Great Surrey Street, Aug. 1828.

       *       *       *       *       *

RETROSPECTIVE GLEANINGS

       *       *       *       *       *

HISTORICAL ACCOUNT OF SMITHFIELD.

(For the Mirror.)

Stowe, in his "Survey of London," 1633, says, "Then is Smithfield Pond, which of (old time)
in records was called Horsepoole, for that men watered horses there, and was a great water.
In the 6th of Henry V. a new building was made in the west part of Smithfield, betwixt the
said poole and the river of Wels, or Turne-mill-brooke, in a place then called the Elms, for
that there grew many elme-trees, and this had been the place of execution for offenders. Since
the which time, the building there hath been so increased, that now remaineth not one tree
growing. In the yeere 1362, the 36th of Edward III., on the first five daies of May, in Smithfield,
were justs holden, the king and queene being present, with the most part of the chivalry of
England and of France and of other nations; to which came Spaniards, Cyprians, and Armenians,
knightly requesting ayde of the king of England against the Pagans, that invaded their confines.
At the day appointed, there issued forth at the Tower, about the third houre of the day, 60
coursers, apparelled for the justs, upon every one an esquire of honour riding a soft pace;
then came forth 60 ladies of honour, mounted upon palfraies, riding on the one side, richly
apparelled, and every lady led a knight with a chain of gold; those knights, being on the king's
party, had their armour and apparell garnished with white harts, and crownes of gold about
the harts' neckes; and so they came riding through the streets of London to Smithfield, with
a great number of trumpets, &c. The kinge and the queene, who were lodged in the bishop's palace
of London, were come from thence, with many great estates, and placed in chambers, to see the
justs. The ladies that led the knights were taken down from their palfraies, and went up to
chambers prepared for them. Then alighted the esquires of honour from their coursers, and the
knights in good order mounted upon them; and after their helmets were set on their heads, and
being ready in all points, proclamation made by the heralds, the justs began, and many commendable
courses were runne, to the great pleasure of the beholders. The justs continued many days with
great feastings, as ye may reade in Froisard," &c. &c.

Smithfield, says Pennant, "was also the spot on which accusations were decided by duel, derived
from the Kamp-fight ordeal of the Saxons. I will only (says Mr. P.) mention an instance. It
was when the unfortunate armourer entered into the lists, on account of a false accusation
of treason, brought against him by his apprentice, in the reign of Henry VI. The friends of
the defendant had so plied him with liquor, that he fell an easy conquest to his accuser. Shakspeare
has worked this piece of history into a scene, in the second part of Henry VI., but has made
the poor armourer confess his treasons in his dying moments; for in the time in which this
custom prevailed, it never was even suspected but that guilt must have been the portion of
the vanquished. When people of rank fought with sword and lance, plebeian combatants were only
allowed a pole, armed with a heavy sand-bag, with which they were to decide their guilt or
innocence. In Smithfield were also held our autos-de-fee; but to the credit of our English
monarchs, none were ever known to attend the ceremony. Even Philip II. of Spain never honoured
any, of the many which were celebrated by permission of his gentle queen, with his presence,
notwithstanding he could behold the roasting of his own subjects with infinite self-applause
and sang-froid. The stone marks the spot, in this area, on which those cruel exhibitions were
executed. Here our martyr Latimer preached patience to friar Forest, agonizing under the torture
of a slow fire, for denying the king's supremacy; and to this place our martyr Cranmer compelled
the amiable Edward, by forcing his reluctant hand to the warrant, to send Joan Bocher, a silly
woman, to the stake. Yet Latimer never thought of his own conduct in his last moments; nor
did Cranmer thrust his hand into the fire for a real crime, but for one which was venial, through
the frailty of human nature. Our gracious Elizabeth could likewise burn people for religion.
Two Dutchmen, Anabaptists, suffered in this place in 1675, and died, as Holinshed sagely remarks,
with "roring and crieing." But let me say, (says Pennant,) that this was the only instance
we have of her exerting the blessed prerogative of the writ De Haeretico comburendo. Her highness
preferred the halter; her sullen sister faggot and fire. Not that we will deny but Elizabeth
made a very free use of the terrible act of her 27th year. One hundred and sixty-eight suffered
in her reign, at London, York, in Lancashire, and several other parts of the kingdom, convicted
of being priests, of harbouring priests, or of becoming converts. But still there is a balance
of 109 against us in the article persecution, and that by the agonizing death of fire; for
the smallest number estimated to have suffered under the savage Mary, amounts, in her short
reign, to 277. The last person who suffered at the stake in England was Bartholomew Logatt,
who was burnt here in 1611, as a blasphemous heretic, according to the sentence pronounced
by John King, bishop of London. The bishop consigned him to the secular of our monarch James,
who took care to give the sentence full effect. This place, as well as Tybourn, was called
The Elms, and used for the execution of malefactors even before the year 1219. In the year
1530, there was a most severe and singular punishment inflicted here on one John Roose, a cook,
who had poisoned 17 persons of the Bishop of Rochester's family, two of whom died, and the
rest never recovered their health. His design was against the pious prelate Fisher, who at
that time resided at Rochesterplace, Lambeth. The villain was acquainted with the cook, and,
coming into the bishop's kitchen, took an opportunity, while the cook's back was turned to
fetch him some drink, to fling a great quantity of poison into the gruel, which was prepared
for dinner for the bishop's family, and the poor of the parish. The good bishop escaped. Fortunately,
he that day abstained from food. The humility and temperance of that good man are strongly
marked in this relation, for he partook of the same ordinary food with the most wretched pauper.
By a retrospective law, Roose was sentenced to be boiled to death, which was done accordingly.
In Smithfield, the arch-rebel, Wat Tyler, met with, in 1381, the reward of his treason and
insolence."

Smithfield[1] is at present celebrated, and long since, for being the great market for cattle
of all kinds, and likewise for being the place where Bartholomew fair is held, alias the Cockneys'
Saturnalia, which was granted by Henry II. to the neighbouring priory.

P.T.W.

    [1] After the Great Fire, many Londoners resided here in huts.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ANECDOTE GALLERY.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ANDALUSIAN ASS.

A gay lieutenant of the Spanish Royal Guards, known by the name of Alonzo Beldia, became violently
enamoured of the beautiful Carlotta Pena, the eldest daughter of a reputable gunsmith, whose
humble habitation adjoined the vast cemetery of Valencia, and whom Beldia had casually seen
at a public entertainment given in that good city.

Alonzo was affable and extremely complaisant, though an egotist and somewhat loquacious; but
nature had, nevertheless, bestowed upon him a prepossessing exterior with an enviable pair
of jet black whiskers, and the most expressive eyes; he could sing a tonadilla divinely; dance
the fandango with inimitable grace; and "strike the light guitar" with unparalleled mastery.
He was, in truth, an accomplished man of pleasure, and by his gallantry he subdued the tender
hearts of many fair daughters of Ferdinand's domains.

On a dark night in the month of December, just as Alonzo had played one of his bewitching airs,
with his wonted execution, and was engaged, in converse sweet, with the enraptured Carlotta,
an extraordinary and seemingly supernatural noise suddenly proceeded from a distant part of
the hallowed ground where Alonzo sacrificed at the shrine of love. Jesu Maria! exclaimed the
terrified damsel, what, in the name of heaven, can it be? ere the silvery tones of her sweet
voice had reached the ears of the petrified Alonzo, the "iron tongue" of the cathedral clock
announced the hour of midnight, and the solemn intonation of its prodigious bell instilled
new horrors into the confused minds of the affrighted lovers. The brave, the royal Alonzo heard
not the voice of his enchanting dulcinea; he, poor fellow, with difficulty supported his trembling
frame against an ancient memento mori, which reared its tristful crest within a whisper of
the lattice of the lovely Carlotta. Large globules of transparent liquid adorned his pallid
brow, and his convulsed knees sought each other with mechanical solicitude. It was a moment
pregnant with the gravest misery to poor Alonzo; not a star was seen to enliven the murky night,
and the wind whistled most lugubriously. He was in a state of insensibility, and would have
fallen to the cold earth, but luckily for the valiant youth, the melodious voice of the enchanting
girl again breathed the tenderest hopes for the safety of her adored Alonzo. He sprang upon
his legs and drew a pistol from his girdle, which he discharged with unerring aim at the dreaded
goblin. A horrible groan followed this murderous act, which was succeeded by a confused noise,
and a solemn silence ensued! "It's vanished, Carlotta! I have hurried the intruding demon to
the nether world!" exclaimed the valorous guardsman. "Heavens be praised," cried the superstitious
girl, "but hasten, my love--quit this spot directly--my father has alarmed his people--away, away!"

The worthy maker of guns approached the scene of carnage, accompanied by the inmates of his
dwelling, with rueful countenances, illumined by tapers, when the cause of their disquietude
was soon discovered. No apparition or sprite forsooth, but a full grown donkey of the Andalusian
breed, lay weltering in gore, yet warm with partial life! By timely liberality the valorous
Alonzo escaped detection, though the heroic deed is still remembered in merry Valencia, and
often cited as an instance of glorious (?) chivalry.

GRADIVUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF DISCOVERY.

       *       *       *       *       *

IMPROVED SAFETY LAMP.

Mr. Dillon has lately introduced to the notice of the scientific world, an improvement upon
the Safety Lamp of Sir Humphry Davy, which appears to us of sufficient interest for illustration
in our columns. As the Davy Lamp is too well known to need special description here, it will
be merely necessary to allude to the principle of the invention, in order to point out Mr.
Dillon's improvement.

He maintains, in opposition to Sir Humphry Davy, that the Davy lamp acts by its heat and rarefaction,
and not from Sir H. Davy's theory, that flame is cooled by a wire-gauze covering. He shows,
by a simple experiment, that the Davy lamp is not safe in a current of hydrogen or carburetted
hydrogen gas, and that many lives may have been lost from the confidence of miners in its perfect
safety. A current of hydrogen or carburetted hydrogen gas steadily directed on the flame of
the lamp from a bladder and stopcock, by cooling the wire gauze, brings the flame of the lamp
through the gauze to the mouth of the stopcock, (even should there be six folds of gauze intervening.)
He shows also, by immersing the lamp, when cold and newly lighted, into a jar of dense hydrogen
or carburetted hydrogen gas, or an explosive mixture with atmospheric air, that explosion takes
place inside and outside of the lamp; whereas, when the lamp has burnt sufficiently long to
heat the wire gauze, no explosion takes place on the outside of the lamp. These experiments
appear incontrovertible in support of his theory, which is, "that the wire gauze is merely
the rapid receiver and the retainer of heat, and that it is the caloric in its meshes which
prevents the flame of the lamp from being fed by the oxygen of the atmosphere on the outside."

The experiments of Libri, showing that flame is inflected by metallic rods, and that "when
two flames are made to approach each other, there is a mutual repulsion, although their proximity
increases the temperature of each, instead of diminishing it," support Mr. Dillon's theory--the
inflection being occasioned by the rarefaction of the air between the rod and the flame, the
latter seeking for oxygen to support it in a denser medium, the two flames repelling each other
for the same reason, and not from any mysterious and "repulsive effect of the wires of the
gauze tissue." Mr. Dillon increases the heat of the lamp, and places on it a shield of talc
to protect it from a current, and, upon his theory, the shafts or workings of iron and coal
mines may be lighted with gas with perfect safety, protecting the flame with wire gauze and
a circular shield of talc.

       *       *       *       *       *

EPITAPH ON A FRENCH SCOLD.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

PENELOPE, OR LOVE'S LABOUR LOST.

This is one of the most deservedly attractive novels of the past season; and the good sense
with which it abounds, ought to insure it extensive circulation. It has none of the affectation
or presumptuousness of "fashionable" literature; but is at once a rational picture of that
order of society to which its characters belong, and a just satire on the superior vices of
the wealthy and the great. The author is evidently no servile respecter of either of the latter
classes, for which reason, his work is the more estimable, and is a picture of real life, whereas
fashion at best lends but a disguise, or artificial colouring to the actions of men, and thus
renders them the less important to the world, and less to be depended on as scenes and portraitures
of human character. The former will, however, stand as lasting records of the men and manners
of the age in which they were drawn, whilst the latter, being in their own day but caricatures
of life, will, in course of time, fade and lose their interest, and at length become levelled
with the mere ephemera, or day-flies of literature. It is true that novel-writing has, within
the last sixteen, or eighteen years, attained a much higher rank than it hitherto enjoyed;
but it should be remembered that this superiority has not been grounded in mawkish records
of the fashionable follies of high life, such as my Lord Duke, or my Lady Bab, might indite
below stairs, for the amusement of those in the drawing-room; on the contrary, it was founded
in portraits and pictures of human nature, strengthened by historical, or matter-of-fact interest,
and stripped of the trickery of fancy and romance; whereas, the chronicles of fashion are little
better than the vagaries of an eccentric few, who bear the same proportion to the general mass
of society, that the princes, heroes, and statesmen of history do to the whole world. This
is a fallacy of which thousands of Bath and Cheltenham novel-readers are not yet aware, and
which the listless Dangles of Brighton and Margate have yet to learn, ere they can hope to
arrive at a correct estimate of human nature; but to such readers we cordially recommend Penelope
as the best corrective we can prescribe for the bile of fashionable prejudice, or the nausea
arising from overstrained fiction, modified as it is to the romance of real life.

Penelope has, however, one of the failings common to fashionable novels. Its plot is weak and
meagre--but it is still simple and natural, and has not borrowed any of those adventitious
aids to which we have alluded above. It bears throughout an air of probability, untinctured
by romance, and has the strong impress of truth and fidelity to nature. Sketchy and vivacious,
always humorous and sometimes witty; it has many scenes and portraits, which in terseness and
energy, will compare with any of its predecessors; and occasionally there are touches of genuine
sentiment which seize on the sympathies of the reader with more than common effect. The incidents
of the narrative do not present many opportunities for these displays of the writer's talent,
and we cannot refrain from thinking that their more frequent introduction would have increased
the success of the work--that is, if we may be allowed to judge from the specimens with which
the author has here favoured us.

