Here is that troublesome word day. Why should it give trouble to any scientist? It is a part
of his duty to know that neither this word nor the context in the first chapter of Genesis,
nor biblical usage, requires us to limit the term to a period of twenty-four hours. But the
context does limit it, in its first occurrence, to an indefinite period of light. He called
them “ineffable days,” describing them as alternate pauses in the work of God. Such was the
interpretation given by the first Christians. Why should we try to measure this term day, in
its first occurrences, by a chronometer which did not come into use until the fourth day? The
notion that these days were twenty-four hours, sprang up in the middle ages, and is the child
of the literalism and realism of those times. Moses gives seven great constructive periods
of light, which beautifully harmonize with the seven great geological ages lying this side
of his beginning. How he came to do this has perplexed the incredulous scholar and historian
beyond measure; it is, indeed, a remarkable fact in literature, but it gives strength to the
faith of the intelligent Christian. God was with Moses; his cosmogony bears evidence of inspiration.
Compare his narrative with the cosmogonies of the ancient nations. There is but little similitude;
if there was much it would not prove identity. It would be strange if the ancient nations should
have no truth in their cosmogonies. And if they had, would it not be more strange for Moses
to leave it out on that account? It would be well to remind you just here that the Almighty,
and doubtless his man Moses also, knew that men possessed at least common sense. In the New
Testament we have the word tartarus in its verb form. Where did it come from? The Apostle Peter,
guided by the divine spirit, found it in Grecian mythology. Is it to be thrown out on that
account? Nay, verily. A man of God, that is, a prophet, in any of the ancient ages as far back
as Moses, is not to be regarded as under obligations to shun a truth because it was already
in use among men. The man who would claim such a silly thing ought to be discarded from scientific
and literary circles as a blockhead. The cosmogony of the Babylonians represents the beginning
of things in darkness and water; in which great non-descript animals, hideous monsters, half-beasts
and half-men, made their appearance; then a woman, who personates the creative spirit or principle,
was split into two parts, and the heaven and the earth produced by the division. Next Belus,
the supreme divinity, cut off his own head, and his blood, trickling down and mingling with
the dust of the earth, produced human creatures having intelligence and spiritual life. The
Phœnician cosmogony presents, first, an ether or a mist diffused in space. Next, a wind arose,
and from this motion proceeded a Spiritual God, from whom proceeded an egg, which, being divided,
produced the heavens and the earth. Next, the noise of thunder awakened beings into spiritual
life. The Egyptian cosmogony presents a principal divinity, whose name was Ptah, the world-creating
power, who shaped the cosmic egg, which again appears here, as in the Phœnician. Next, there
followed from Ptah a long succession of gods, with many offices and powers—solar, telluric
and spiritual—from whom, after a time, proceeded demigods, and then from these proceeded heroes,
until the link of our humanity was reached. According to Grote, Grecian mythology opens with
the gods prior, as well as superior, to man; it then descends gradually to heroes and then
to the human race. Along with their gods are presented many monsters, ultra-human and extra-human,
who can’t consistently be styled gods, but who partake with gods and man in the attributes
of free-will, conscious agency and susceptibility of pleasure and pain—such as the Harpies,
the Gorgons, the Sirens, the Sphinx, the Cyclops, the Centaurs, etc. After a great struggle,
or contest, among these wonderful creatures, there arises a stable government of Zeus, the
chief among the gods. Then appears chaos, then the broad, firm, flat earth, with deep and dark
tartarus below, and from these proceed different divinities and creatures, some grand and terrible,
some simply monsters; their relations to each other violate all notions of decency and morality;
their wars and slaughters, their gross and abominable crimes issue in successive creative products
upon earth, which terminate at last in the appearance of man.

Next we will give you the cosmogony of the Vedas, as it is presented in
what is known as the mystic hymn of the Vedas. It is Pantheistic to the
core. Translated from Max Mullers’
    “Chips from a German Workshop.”

This is Pantheistic throughout, and although it presents no absurd combinations of matter and
spirit, yet it puts the material creation before the creation of the spiritual, and scarcely
allows consciousness to “the One,” “the It,” from which, somehow, the creation proceeded. The
Book of Menu, which is of equal value with the Veda among the Hindoos, gives the following
account of the creation:

“Menu sat reclined, with his attention fixed on one object, the supreme God, when the divine
sages approached him, and, after mutual salutations in due form, delivered the following address:
Deign, sovereign ruler, to apprise us of the sacred laws in their order, as they must be followed
by all the four classes, and by each of them, in their several degrees, together with the duties
of every mixed class; for thou, Lord, and thou only among mortals, knowest the true sense,
the first principle, and the prescribed ceremonies of this universal, supernatural Veda, unlimited
in extent and unequalled in authority. Among them each succeeding element acquires the quality
of the preceding; and in as many degrees as each of them is advanced, with so many properties
is it said to be endued. He, too, first assigned to all creatures distinct names, distinct
acts, and distinct occupations, as they had been revealed in the pre-existing Veda. He, the
supreme ruler, created an assemblage of inferior Deities, with divine attributes and pure souls,
and a number of Genii exquisitely delicate; and he prescribed the sacrifice from the beginning.
From fire, from air, and from the sun he milked out, as it were, three primordial Vedas, named
Rich, Yajush and Saman, for the due performance of the sacrifice.

“He gave being to time and the divisions of time, to the stars also, and to the planets, to
rivers, oceans and mountains, to level plains and uneven valleys, to devotion, speech, complacency,
desire and wrath, and to the creation, which shall presently be mentioned; for he willed the
existence of all those created things. For the sake of distinguishing actions, he made a total
difference between right and wrong, and enured these sentient creatures to pleasure and pain,
cold and heat, and other opposite pairs. With very minute transformable portions called matras,
of the five elements, all this perceptible world was composed in fit order; and in whatever
occupation the Supreme Lord first employed any vital soul, to that occupation the same soul
attaches itself spontaneously when it receives a new body again and again. Whatever quality,
noxious or innocent, harsh or mild, unjust or just, false or true, he conferred on any being
at its creation, the same quality enters it, of course, on its future births; as the six seasons
of the year attain respectively their peculiar marks in due time and of their own accord, even
so the several acts of each embodied spirit attend it naturally.

“That the human race might be multiplied, he caused the Brahmen, the Cshatriya, the Vaisya
and the Sudra to proceed from his mouth, his arm, his thigh and his foot.

“Having divided his own substance, the mighty power became half male, half female, or nature
active and passive, and from that female he produced Viraz. Know me, O most excellent of Brahmens,
to be that person whom the male power, Viraz, having performed austere devotion, produced by
myself; me, the secondary framer of all this visible world. It was I who, desirous of giving
birth to a race of men, performed very difficult religious duties, and first produced ten Lords
of created beings, animated in holiness, Marichi, Atri, Angiras, Pulastya, Pulaha, Cratu, Prachetas,
or Dacsha, Vasishtha, Bhrigu and Narada; they, abundant in glory, produced seven other Menu,
together with deities and the mansions of deities, and Maharshis, or great sages, unlimited
in power; benevolent genii, and fierce giants, blood-thirsty savages, heavenly quiristers,
nymphs and demons, huge serpents and snakes of smaller size, birds of mighty wing, and separate
companies of Pitirs, or progenitors of mankind; lightnings and thunder-bolts, clouds and colored
bows of Indra, falling meteors, earth-rending vapors, comets and luminaries of various degrees;
horse-faced sylvans, apes, fish, and a variety of birds, tame cattle, deer, men, and ravenous
beasts with two rows of teeth; small and large reptiles, moths, lice, fleas, and common flies,
with every biting knat and immovable substances of distinct sorts.”

Reader, I have given you this chapter of ancient cosmogonies under the conviction that a bare
statement of them must convince any one of either the ignorance or dishonesty of infidels who
claim that Moses learned all that he gave in his cosmogony from the ancient cosmogonies. How
was it that Moses avoided all their errors and extravagance? How was it that he gave such a
severely simple description of creation, which no rhetoric can improve, and no scientist successfully
refute?

Can you believe that energy, or force, lies behind all things, operating them, without believing
there is something lying behind it, to which it belongs?

Can you believe that a concourse of dead atoms held a solemn convention, went into harmonious
action and produced life?

SOME OF THE BEAUTIES (?) OF HARMONY AMONG UNBELIEVERS.

The author of “The System of Nature” says of the English Jesuit’s creation of eels by spontaneous
generation from rye meal: “After moistening meal with water, and shutting up the mixture, it
is found after a little time, with the aid of the microscope, that it has produced organized
beings, of whose production the water and meal were believed to be incapable. Thus inanimate
nature can pass into life, which is itself but an assemblage of motions.”—Part 1, p. 23. For
Needham’s Eels, see the Volume of Physics.

Voltaire says: “Were this unparalleled blunder true, yet, in rigorous reasoning I do not see
how it would prove there is no God.”

He says, it is really strange that men, while denying a creator should have attributed to themselves
the power of creating eels. But it is yet more deplorable that natural philosophers, of better
information, adopted the Jesuit Needham’s ridiculous system, and joined it to that of Maillet,
who asserted that the ocean had formed the Alps and the Pyrenees, and that men were originally
porpoises, whose forked tails changed in the course of time into thighs and legs. Such fancies
are worthy to be placed with the eels formed by meal. How does a germ come to life?”

The author of the “System of Nature” says: “Matter is eternal and necessary; but its forms
and its combinations are transitory and contingent.” Upon the supposition that all is  matter,
Voltaire answers, it is hard to comprehend, matter being, according to our author, necessary,
and without freedom, how there can be anything contingent.

Again, the atheistic author of the “System of Nature” asserts that order and disorder do not
exist. This is strongly refuted by Voltaire, who says the author is to be distrusted very often,
both in physics and in morals.

Spinosa was a pantheist. He, like many modern sciolists, repudiated design in nature. Voltaire,
treating upon Spinosism, says: “I am aware that various philosophers, and especially Lucretius,
have denied final causes. I am also aware that Lucretius, though not very chaste, is a very
great poet in his descriptions and in his morals; but in philosophy I own he appears to me
to be very far behind a college porter or a parish beadle. To affirm that the eye is not made
to see, nor the ear to hear, nor the stomach to digest, is not this the most revolting folly
that ever entered the human mind? Doubter as I am, this insanity seems to me evident, and I
say so. This great truth can not be too forcibly inculcated.” Voltaire was a Deist.

Lucretius, according to Voltaire, denied design in nature. Voltaire said, in philosophy, he
was very far behind a college porter or a parish beadle.

Spinosa was a Pantheist. Voltaire says, “He frequently contradicted himself; that he had not
always clear ideas; that he sometimes clung to one plank, sometimes to another.”

Voltaire says: “A natural philosopher of some reputation had no doubt that this ‘Needham,’
who made the eels, ‘was a profound Atheist,’ who concluded that since eels could be made of
rye meal, men might be made of wheat flour; that nature and chemistry produce all; and that
it was demonstrated we may very well dispense with an all forming God.” Voltaire calls this
an unparalleled blunder. D’Holbach, the author of the “System de la Nature,” was an Atheist,
so were his assistants in the production of that work.

Voltaire addresses the author of that work in the following words: “In the state of doubt in
which we both are, I do not say to you, with Pascal, ‘choose the safest.’ There is no safety
in uncertainty. We are here not to talk, but to examine; we must judge, and our judgment is
not determined by our will. I do not propose to you to believe extravagant things in order
to escape embarassment. I do not say to you, ‘Go to Mecca, and instruct yourself by kissing
the black stone, take hold of a cow’s tail, muffle yourself in a scapulary, or be imbecile
and fanatical to acquire the favor of the Being of beings.’ I say to you, ‘Continue to cultivate
virtue, to be beneficent, to regard all superstition with horror, or with pity; but adore,
with me, the design which is manifested in all nature, and consequently the author of that
design—the primordial and final cause of all; hope with me that our monade, which reasons on
the great eternal Being, may be happy through that same great Being. There is no contradiction
in this. You can no more demonstrate its impossibility than I can demonstrate mathematically
that it is so. In metaphysics we scarcely reason on anything but probabilities. We are all
swimming in a sea of which we have never seen the shore. Woe be to those who fight while they
swim! Land who can; but he that cries out to me, “You swim in vain, there is no land,” disheartens
me, and deprives me of all my strength. What is the object of our dispute? To console our unhappy
existence. Who consoles it—you or I? You yourself own, in some passages of your work, that
the belief in a God has withheld some men on the brink of crime; for me this acknowledgment
is enough. If this opinion had prevented but ten assassinations, but ten calumnies, but ten
iniquitous judgments on the earth, I hold that the whole earth ought to embrace it.’ ”—Voltaire’s
Philosophical Dictionary.

